29 the outer side so as to expose the lobules of tubuli seminiferi, which seem atrophied. The arteries on the inner side are seen through the tunica albuginea coursing in zigzag fashion from behind forwards, as in the horse. The whole organ is minute for the size of the animal, whose skeleton is preserved in the museum. 872. Lower half of a highly platycnemic left tibia found by Sir Herbert E. Maxwell in St. Medan’s cave in making excavations. 873. Human embryo, 10 weeks old, upper limbs removed. Shows centres of ossification of head, ribs and lower limbs; column not begun to ossify, nor feet. 874. Lower jaw of foetus of five months, with malleus attached by processus gracilis and remains of Meckel’s cartilage. 875. Abnormality of Heart. This specimen was pre- served by Dr. Allen Thomson, who also published an account of it. It became necessary to remount it and try to display the structure more completely. Besides open foramen ovale, it presents an interventricular communication below the aortic valve. The specimen is hung by the aorta. Close to the aorta is seen the pulmonary artery laid open longitudinally from its commence- ment, which does not seem to have been guarded by a properly developed valve, but to have been greatly contracted at its commencement, and never to have attained anything like the proper dimensions. Below it, as well as below the aortic opening, there is a great recess with a prominent lower margin; and by carefully looking in certain positions there is easily seen an opening from the bottom of the recess downward into the left ventricle, but concealed when looked for from the left ventricle by the right cusp of the mitral valve. The two ventricles are each laid open with its corresponding auricle by a cut carried through the auriculo-ventricular ring. The entrances of the pulmonary veins and whatever posterior wall the left auricle presented between them have unfortunately not been preserved. (For further details see Dr. Allen Thomson’s Memoir; also Dr. Newman’s paper in Glasgoiv Medical Journal.) 876. Portion of spinal cord of Horse, showing characters of origin of roots of nerves and of spinal ganglia; also on one side an attachment of the ligamentum denticulatum to the dura mater.