45 934- Liver, stomach and spleen of black-tailed Ichneu- mon, gall-bladder apparently absent. Hepatic lobes remarkable ; lobulus Spigelii present behind duodenum, caudate lobe much more pendent, in front of duodenum. 935- Sections of Ox eyes, prepared with acetate of lead. 936. Eye of Crocodile (left). Two specimens, the upper showing the eyelids, particularly the third or membranous eyelid; the lower showing the cornea and the thin cartilaginous sclerotic grooved internally by veins. 937* Eye of Crocodile. Above is seen the back part of the sclerotic with the back part of the choroid thickened and adherent. Outside the choroid a large artery and vein are seen piercing the sclerotic. A small strip of the middle part of the choroid is seen to be thin and delicate till it reaches forward to the ciliary bodies. The lower specimen shows the ciliary bodies to be long and pendulous, apparently in loops or in an inner and outer set, which tear easily separate. Further dissections of a fresh specimen are required to clear up their anatomy. 938. Ox Eye. Lens, capsule and ciliary ligament, with fore- part of hyaloid membrane and remains of vitreous humour. The lens has kept its transparence. The little processes of the inner margin of the suspensory ligament are seen, and outside this the smooth zone of the suspensory ligament, and still further out its fluted zone, which forms the inner part of the zonule of Zinn with pigment attached to it. 939. Inner canthus of left eye of Ox, front of the eyeball remaining attached by conjunctiva. Shows plica semilunaris forming an imperfect third eyelid, which contains in it the fore end of a thick cartilage, seen at the back of the preparation to narrow into an elongated stem and expand more deeply. The caruncula is small, and has some small hairs on it; and on the margins of the eyelids are the mouths of the canaliculi, each with a feather in it. 940. Tongue, windpipe and lungs of black-tailed Ichneumon. The tongue has a broad patch of large papilla extending from near the top backwards about a third of its length, each papilla with a swollen base, from the summit of which springs suddenly a long filiform protrusion (seen with aid of a lens); the rest of its dorsum has small filiform papilla and a few scattered fungiform ; and behind these are three circum- vallate papilla, one on each side, and one mesial further back.