27 fore limb by the whole length of the sternum and part of the middle line of the abdominal wall there is an appended structure consisting of pelvis, tail and pair of hind limbs, with a rectum passing into the pelvis. The rectum is fully developed and furnished with a pair of anal glands. No trace of reproductive apparatus was connected with these additional parts, but a body like a single kidney surmounted the pelvis. The tail terminated abruptly at the sacral end, and was only connected with the dwarfed pelvic bones by means of fibres of some length. The rectum of the appended parts was continued into colon, caecum and small intestine; and this last became united after a consider- able length with the small intestine proper to the developed puppy. 863. Pia Mater from medulla oblongata, pons Varolii, base of brain and velum interpositum, human, showing connections of velum interpositum, pineal body, &c. 864. Left hemisphere and olfactory bulb of Horse. The olfactory bulb is laid open, and the communication between its cavity and the front of the lateral ventricle is exhibited by means of a piece of blue glass rod passed through it, and filling up the opening. The left corpus striatum is seen, and its relation to the part of the base internal to the olfactory tract—demon- strating that part to be correspondent with the gyri operti and region of locus perforatus anticus of man. 865. Corpora striata, fornix and left olfactory bulb of Horse. The communication between the ventricle of the olfactory bulb and the lateral ventricle is shown by means of a bristle. The fornix is divided, the forepart being left intact, while the body and posterior crura, cut separate right and left and from the front, extend to the foot of the opened great cornu of the lateral ventricle. 866. Corpora quadrigemina, pons, medulla oblongata, crura cerebri and part of optic thalami of Horse. The arteries are injected and present a curious system of anastomosis between the crura cerebri. The pituitary body and pineal gland, the anterior half of the valve of Vieussens and the floor of the fourth ventricle are also seen. 867. Part of brain of Horse, including the cerebellum, from which the pons and medulla oblongata have been removed, leaving the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle in situ, showing the approach of its right and left side to the middle line behind! and its lateral extension in the position which was occupied by the