43 and at its anterior free edge membranous, and has a long single musculus papillaris attaching its most pendent part to the septum. The pulmonary valve is shown in contact with the aortic valve. (Rectangular jar) 926. Genito = urinary organs of Male Ornithorhynchus. Above are seen the kidneys and adrenals. The ureters open below the wide orifice of the urinary bladder. Below the kidneys, on each side, are displayed testis, epididymis and vas deferens. The tunica albuginea of the right testis is laid open, and the right epididymis is partially denuded of the tunica vaginalis. On the left side is more fully displayed the long and wide mesorchium between epididymis and testis. Running down the middle of this is the spermatic artery, which is seen on each side coming off from the aorta. A tendinous band in the edge of the mesorchium corresponds with the part of the human gubernaculum extending between the lower end of the testis and the point where the epididymis falls into the vas deferens, and bringing by its contraction these two parts into close contact. The part of the duct free from mesorchium is the vas deferens and ends close to the opening of the ureter. The wide genito- urinary canal is 2 inches in length and opens by a constricted outlet, through which a glass rod is passed into the cloaca immediately in front of the rectum, as is seen from behind. The cloaca, with glass rod in it, is about an inch long; and into the front of it opens a great preputial pouch. This pouch has been cut into, and part of its wall removed to show the large extremity of the penis which occupies it. The surface of the penis so exposed is roughly tuberculated, as also, less pro- minently, is the whole wall of the pouch which will be everted when the penis is erected. This exposed part of the penis is bilobate, and on each lobe is sunk a depression, from which can be protruded by evertion an erectile prolongation surmounted by four pointed papillae. The right depression has been clipped open so as to exhibit a muscular band for retraction, coming from the tip of the body of the penis, which is a strong structure about quarter of an inch in breadth, and approaching two inches in length, springing from about half way forwards on the genito- urinary canal. At the lower part of the preparation are seen the right and left Cowper’s gland. This gland is a compact structure about half an inch long and two-thirds of an inch broad, whose position is in the fold of the groin, and consists of a thick muscular capsule with a flat tendon on the deep surface, and within this is the firm whitish glandular substance. Its duct is an inch or more in length, very small and surrounded with muscular fibres extending to the strong muscular coat of the genito-urinary canal. Its