42 (On stand) 924- Schistozomus reflexus (Ourlt), Calf. 'i'he carcase from which this specimen was prepared by Mr. Mu y was presented by Dr. Edington. It had unfortunately been much mutilated before coming into our hands. I ie vise parts of the limbs were removed and the head was divided, r e heart and trachea were dried up, but have been placed as neai y as possible in their original position This form of monstrosity probably depends either on incomplete closure ol the visceral cavity in early embryonic life or on early mesial reopening of the cavity in consequence of dropsical effusion. I he head and neck are skeletally normal. The rest of the vertebral column, especially the thoracic part, is flung backwards so that the thoracic portion has the ventral surface of the bodies of yertebias thrown into a letter C convexity. This is accompanied with lateral curvature to the left side. The ribs are flung back in a dorsal direction, exposing the ventral convexity of the column, and thin costal cartilages supporting on each the corresponding halves of the sternum in separate pieces, which bound the sides of the deep dorsal concavity thus formed. The 13 ribs of the right side are all separate one from another, though crowded together; but on the left side the 3rd, 4th, and 5th have their shafts fused together, as are also those of the 7th and Sth, the 9th and 10th, and the nth and 12th. Unfortunately no vestige is left of the viscera; but the pelvic bones are normal, indicating that there has been considerable development of. the pelvic viscera. The skeleton of both anterior and posterior limbs is normal, the scapula being lodged in the deep dorsal concavity. Specimens 925, 926, and 927 are from a male and a female ornithorhynchus presented by the Hon. John M‘Call, M.l)., Tasmania, graduate of this University. (Rectangular jar) 925. Heart and lungs of Ornitho- rhynchus. The right lung presents three lobes, viz. an upper or prearterial lobe, a lower lobe corresponding with the middle and lower lobes of the human lung, and an elongated narrow sub-cardial lobe whose bronchial tube is given off immediately prior to that of the upper lobe. 'I'he auriculo-ventricular valves are remarkable. The left one, instead of being mitral in shape, forms an elongated membranous funnel most elongated towards the right side; from the middle of its front a very short tendinous connexion comes uniting it to a distinct ventral musculus papillaris, while the dorsal part is more intimately connected with the muscular wall, and cannot be said to have a musculus papillaris. The right auriculo-ventricular valve is something like the oblique muscular projection which forms the valve in birds, but is more expanded,