52 material had been previously badly used and subjected to reagents Probably fresh material without dissection will gioe a good result. Looked at with a lens by transmitted light it shows that the bodies of the vertebras are ossified from a single mesial centre. 966. Foetal skeleton early in the third month, or fully two months old. 967. Vertebral column and limbs of foetus of third month. (Mounted on a needle, pill box and card) 968. Left sphen- oidal turbinated bone from subject about 12 years old. 1 he four centres of ossification—viz., 1. inferior; 2. superior; 3. external ; 4. orbital—can all be recognised though welded into one. The orbital surface, which fits in between sphenoid, ethmoid and palatal, has been circumscribed with a black line. (On card) 969. Vomer of Infant; the articular surfaces and edges marked on card, as I described them in Philosophical Transactions, and in Human Anatomy, p. 216. 970. Tail of Acanthias, with blood-vessels injected, partially dissected to show the termination of the vertebral column, the cartilaginous dorsal and haemal arches, and the dense thatch ot horny fin-rays, subcutaneous in origin. 971. Section showing nostrils of Alligator. I he nasal fossae are seen suddenly narrowing in front, then turning upwards, surrounded by muscular fibres. 972. Heart and lungs of Echidna. (Dry) 973. Lower portion of vertebral column. Last dorsal, five lumbar vertebrae, sacrum, and, between fifth lumbar and sacrum, an additional intermediate vertebra with transverse processes greatly thickened and articulating with the sacrum in such a way as to produce an additional set of anterior and posterior sacral foramina. (Dry) 974. Sternum with two sternales brutorum muscles, both fleshy below and separated by a wide interval, while above they approach one to the other and become tendinous. That of the left side, which is much the larger, has a tendon of attachment to the ridge between manubrium and mesosternum; but its outer half, and the whole of the right muscle, form