25 that of the other embryo. Unhappily the blood-vessels were so injured before examination that the course of the circulation could not be followed out. But the aortas of the two embryos communicate broadly near their origins. On the inferior vena cava of the right embryo, there is placed an independent liver of small size, about two-thirds of an inch in length and half an inch in width, without gall-bladder. No communication was made out between it and the intestine. The large liver has a gall- bladder, and its ductus communis choledochus opened into the intestine about half an inch below the stomach, but it broke across and is seen hanging loose. Each embryo has the kidneys, adrenals and genito-urinary organs normal, with a hypogastric artery on each side of the urinary bladder. 857-860. Cyclopian Lamb. (Dry in jar) 857. Integument of head of Cyclopian Lamb born at full time. The proboscis has a single nasal aperture at its extremity. The opening for the eye is large, and beneath it there is a distance of more than an inch to the upper lip, beyond which the lower lip protrudes. (See next three specimens.) 858. Jaws, unroofed cranium, eye and brain of Cyclo- pian Lamb. The teeth of the lower jaw are in their place, those of the upper jaw are preserved in 859. The eyeball is cut open from above, and is seen to have not only two corneae and irides, but also two lenses. There is only one optic nerve and appar- ently no retina. The cerebral hemispheres are represented by one mesial smooth-surfaced growth about f inch in length and the same in breadth. Beneath this hemisphere there is a surface of contact with the velum interpositum leading forwards to a primitive foramen of Monro or fissure of entrance of the choroid plexus into the lateral ventricles. Beneath the position of the velum interpositum are the corpora quadrigemina rather flattened as if by pressure of water between them and the concrescent hemisphere. But there is every evidence that the thalamo- cephalic dropsy common to cyclopians has in this instance burst early into the subdural space and thus narrowed the hemisphere and pressed the corpora quadrigemina backwards instead of downwards. The cord and cerebellum are normal. 859. Tongue, pharynx and larynx of same Cyclopian Lamb. The pharynx is blind above the soft palate. Obviously, the eyeball having been above and behind the upper jaw, and the nasal cavity having the connections seen in the next specimen, there could not be any nasal fossae.