lateral ventricle, distending the anterior cornu and also the posterior, but more remarkably the great cornu, which at the inner side of its extremity, at the anterior edge of the transverse fissure, shows a communication, in the form of a circular opening, leading from the ventricle to the surface of the brain exactly in the position of one of the openings described by Luschka as of the same description as the “ foramen of Magendie.” It is not, however, an interruption of the continuity of the pia mater. 842. Pyloric end of stomach, with a portion of the trans- verse colon attached to it by the gastro-colic omentum, showing between stomach and colon a large gap in the anterior wall of the sac of the omentum. The entire absence of all trace of adhesions and the wideness of the foramen of Winslow, part pf whose walls is preserved behind the pylorus, forbid the idea that there has been a rupture caused by pressure of fluid within the sac. • 8u h I1n,Jectfd tongue of Otaria jubata (the sea lion). It is bifid like that of the earless seals. The posterior portion destitute of proper lingual papillae and corresponding to the part behind the V furrow and foramen caecum in mantis wide, pro longed forwards in front of the fauces and marked by a deep longitudinal furrow which is absent further forwards: but it has a few scattered wart-like papillae, especially posteriorly, between the tonsils. The tonsils are distinct and partially covered by a crescentic fold of mucous membrane in front. 844. Hyoid apparatus and larynx of Otaria jubata, from ie same individual as 843. The structures are much more differentiated from the ordinary type than in the true seals • and when it is considered that the eared seals preserve the pinna which has disappeared in the true seals, an instance will be seen of variation ,11 two different sets of structures proceeding at different rates of rapidity in different genera of one tribe * In the true seals there is no approach to the cetacian elongation of epiglottis and corn.cula laryngis, but there is a distinct tendency to such elongation in this specimen (compare with larynx of seal 551, and vvith larynx of porpoise, 238). A pair of large lingual mU rp arG Se?n’ °f them is Partially "dissected away. These are the muscles described by Dr. M‘Intyre in the uman subject, as mentioned in Human Anatomy, Cleland and ac ay. In the porpoise (238) the same muscles are seen much more distinctly attached to the hyoid, but probably also connected with the tongue. The thyroid cartilage is completely divided into two lateral cartilages united by strong ligLent while in the seal the halves are united by a narrow isthmus, and