22 detention g This membrane has been divided and on coking in o e interior there is seen a wide cavtty without vocal cords which presents in its dorsal wall a circular aperture into a pouch with membranous walls more than half an inch in diameter. This pouch rests dorsally on a remarkable flat bilobate projection forwards from the proserial border of the cricoid 1h,s pouch lies between two muscles, the retrosenal muscle being he arytenoideus, while the proserially situated muscle covered the whole back of each arytenoid cartilage, and on the right side has been entirely removed. On the left side a portion of it has been left to show its fibres gathering together to a tendon proserial to the neck of the pouch and to two rounded tuberosities of the inner angles of the bases of the huge arytenoids. 1 he summits of the arytenoids are largely developed and folded over to make a jug-mouth guarded by a rim of yellow cartilage, but not adding to the cornicular form. The epiglottis is thick toward the extremity, which is supported on an elongated neck. 84s. Alcvonium digitatum, with a number of the polyps fully extended. On one side a section exhibits the tubular structure. 846. Viscera of Mackerel. This preparation supplements 13. It shows, in addition, the fibrous septum which separates the kidney from the abdominal cavity, and dorsal to this, while the renal substance has been removed except at the hinder end, there is seen the firm light-coloured mesial rod already exhibited in the porbeagle shark. This structure has been shown by Dr. Gemmill to exhibit tubular structures not unlike renal. I have no doubt whatever that it corresponds morpho- logically (and probably also physiologically) to the adrenals of mammals. In this specimen as well as in 13 the elongated and remarkable gall-bladder is preserved. 847. Pituitary body of Horse. The section shows the difference in structure of the anterior and posterior parts. (Dry) 848. Left hind leg and foot of Cat, showing, by means of a bristle passed through, the loop of Retzius passing round the tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, and attached at both ends to the os calcis, external to the head of the astragalus.