4 From the Ox—Lens, capsule and vitreous humour. 'File latter dissected forwards so as to show that it is made up o laminae. Superficial femoral lymphatic glands of right side, with afferent and efferent ducts. The crural sheath is opened so as to display the femoral artery and femoral veins, and the septum between them. 7=54 Skeleton of Acanthias, in greater part; digested in the stomach of another fish. The beak and the left pectoral fin have been removed. In the skeleton may be noted in connection with the column the chevron elements completing haemal arches and their relation to inferior elements of caudal fin; also the inter- spinal elements and their relation to the superior element of that fin. In connection with pectoral limb may be seen the view of parts which may be instructively compared with those in the skate and in osseous fishes ; also the horny elements thatching the phalanges on both sides and corresponding with the phalanges seen in teleostei. It may be mentioned that these horny elements are enormously developed in the sting-ray. Note the disposition of certain cranial and other nerves. 755. Genitalia of female Python. A long slender pelvic bone is seen on each side with broader toe-like expansions at ventral extremity. A glass rod is passed into each oviduct, showing where it opens close to its neighbour of the opposite side on the dorsal aspect of the cloaca. Close to the. orifice of the cloaca, on each side, there opens a long pouch with strong somewhat corrugated walls and a muscular covering, which last is dissected off on the left side; probably serves the purpose of a spermatophore, and certainly corresponds morphologically with the reversible penis in the male. 756. Double parts of Drake with additional leg. (Skeleton, 400, stand.) There are three caeca, one pair of testes, one pair of kidneys, one colon, one cloaca provided with two vents, each furnished with a separate penis and Bursa Fabricii. The right vent and penis are larger than the left. 757. Uterus, &c., from subject over 60 years of age. Uterus opened from behind. Numerous myomata on front and sides of uterus. Small mucous polypi in the fundus uteri. Both Fallopian tubes much diseased, with purulent cysts at the free extremity and in their course; those in the extremity being laid open. Both ovaries involved in inflammatory thickenings. Muscular walls of uterus hypertrophied. Os externum reduced