3i 887. Larynx, tongue and tonsil of Chimpanzee. Larynx very similar to the human, but the cornicula laryngis much more prominent, and the edges of the aryteno-epiglottidean folds pro- minent, thin and membranous. Also the great cornua of the hyoid articulated at their extremities directly to cartilaginous prolongations of the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage, while the fore edge of this cartilage glides by means of a large bursa on the inferior surface of the body of the hyoid. The left tonsil is preserved and well developed. The dorsum of the tongue has the filiform papillag arranged in ridges in letter V order from the letter V line forwards; and at the sides these ridges and the furrows between are very distinct, especially in the basal part, where for half an inch on each side the arrangement constitutes a collection of foliate papillag. The fungiform papillae are scattered like those of the human subject. The circumvallate papillag are arranged in form of a cross, presenting two large papillag placed one on each side hall an inch from the middle line, and in the mesial plane a rather small papilla, or rather pair of conjoined papillae, one larger than the other. In front of this, in the middle line, is a series of five very small papillae, while behind, in a line with them, are twro more papillae, the foremost of which somewhat approaches in size to the two large lateral; and between this latter and the papillae in front of it, theie is a depression which may be the foramen caecum of the human subject. In the hinder part of the distance between the V line and the epiglottis, there are elongated papillae or rather villi in numbers. 888. The fore part of a Lamprey, dissected on the dorsal surface, so as to show the brain and part of the spinal cord. The hemisphere lobes or prosencephalon form two spherical bodies and behind them is an elongated body overlying the optic lobes, and seen to be the cerebellum elongated bodi forwards and backwards, but most considerably forwards, while beneath and behind it is the fourth ventricle and medulla oblongata At each side of the medulla oblongata the internal ear is laid open and seen to be divided into an anterior and posterior part In the middle line in front of the brain the olfactory sac is laid open, and in a transverse line with it are the eyeballs The basal shield on which the suctorial apparatus moves is laid bare in front of this. 889. Right kidney supplied by five separate branches of the Aorta. Though the highest supplies also the supra- renal body, the two next are larger and enter the hilus normally the upper of the two bifurcating at some distance from the