793. Human liver marked by creases of the diaphragm caused by tight lacing. 704. Viscera of Hag {Myxene glutinosd). Above is seen the muscular throat not dissected out; below this are seen, mjec e , five pairs of marsupibranchiate gills leading into tubes. 70^, h. Dry gangrene of upper limb, allowed to sepaiate without assistance. 704, b. Spleen of male subject, cut. 40 (arc.). He was a jockey, and was said to have poisoned himself with opium. 1 he intestine was enormously large and contained only a little pu p. The spleen is small, without notches in anterior border, ana shows at the upper end of the hilus a surface the size of a three- penny bit, the surface which I describe as constant or neaily so. 705- Section of liver of same subject as 794> ^ 'iVas ta)'en from. It shows a remarkable deposit of subserous thickening, not so thick as I have sometimes seen, but spread in a curious pattern. 796. Integument of right limb of young Frog, with additional two-toed limb growing from outer side of knee. Dr. J. F. Gemmill. 797. Skeleton of hind limbs of the same Frog as 796. with additional leg coming off from right knee. The left side of the pelvis is fuller towards the pubis than the right, but is otherwise symmetrical. 'The right femur is incompletely dou fie and almost symmetrical in its whole length. 1 he additional eg bone is continuous with the outer half of the double femur, tie two long tarsals beyond are joined together, and each has continued from it a metatarsal, the outer ot the two ending in a bifurcated extremity without phalanges, while the inner meta- tarsal supports two series of phalanges placed close together, the outer consisting of a first and second, and the inner of first, second and third phalanx. Prepared, mounted and presented by Dr. J. F. Gem mill. 798. Brain of Rabbit, with the hemispheres, corpus callosum and fornix all folded forwards with as little injury as possible, so as to display corpora quadrigemina, optic thalami, and, partially outside the latter, the corpora striata. A small strip of choroid plexus has unfortunately broken from its connection and fallen on the pineal body and its crura. The central and lateral lobes of the cerebellum and the flocculi are all seen ; the flocculi arising