4i of this there is a large convex swelling, and these two had each an opening which proved to be the orifice of a ureter. The umbilical cord is hanging from the right side of the edge of the mucous membrane, but the left hypogastric artery joined the rest of the cord about an inch from the surface of the body, and it has been cut across and remains hanging from the left side of the mucous membrane. Higher up on the exposed mucous membranes two orifices are seen with a feather in each, and the left one leads upwards into the small intestine, which was loaded with meconium, while the right one leads downwards to the blind extremity of the rectum. The bowel continuous with the right orifice was filled with white loosened epithelium, contrasting with the meconium filling the small intestine. About half an inch above the orifice of the latter, another small orifice is seen, and when the interior of the abdomen is looked at from the right side of the body, which is laid open, there will be seen projecting from opposite this orifice the vermiform appendage well displayed. Therefore, the exposed mucous membrane between the two intestinal orifices, presenting a large area to the outside, depressed in the prepara- tion, but protruded convexly in the untouched condition when the viscera pressed on it from behind, is a burst condition of the caecum and ascending colon. The remainder of the lower intestine is coiled on itself, and ends in a distended cul-de-sac well displayed in its original position below the right kidnev. The pelvis, as shown by the preparation, was imperfect and devoid of viscera. Doubtless the dropsical swelling of the syringocele was the primary malady, and led to the imperfect development of the pelvis. The distension and bursting of the urinary bladder, as well as the absence of anus, would result from the syringocele irritating and thickening the perinseal tissue, and so perman- ently occluding the lower end of both. The accumulation of meconium had no doubt led to the intestine pressing against the back of the bladder as well as the whole front of the abdomen, and was probably the immediate cause of the ectopia. (Consult British Medical Journal, Dec. 26, pp. 1859-1861, where Prof. Arthur Keith refers to a number of papers on ectopia viscerum with a Meckel’s diverticulum opening on exposed vesical surface. Obviously the vermiform appendix has been mistaken for a diverticulum. I wrote to Dr. Keith, but got no satisfactory reply.) (Dry) 923. Skeleton of trunk of the foetus from which 922 is prepared. The sacrum much modified by the syringo- cele causing the spina bifida, and the true pelvis very small, the tip of the coccyx coming forwards so as to close the outlet nearly.