53 tendons which unite in a single attachment on the front of the manubrium; and from that a fibrous strip can be distinctly traced to the sternal tendon of the sterno-mastoid on each side, but particularly on the right side. (Dry) 975. A left sternalis brutorum muscle, forming one long distinct band from outside the rectus abdominis up to the manubrium of the sternum, where it is inserted tendinously. (Dry) 976. Last cervical vertebra, with a pair of ribs, that of the right side much like the normal costal portion of transverse process ; but that of the left side distinct from the vertebra save for a slight osseous union at tubercle, and another at the head. (Dry) 977. Cervical vertebras and first costal arch. the seventh cervical vertebra furnished with a pair of articulating ribs, that of the right side with a shaft more than an inch long, and that of the left side with shaft still longer. (Dry) 978. Three lower thoracic and two first lumbar vertebrae, showing a pair of shorter ribs than usual in con- nexion with the last thoracic vertebra, and the body of that vertebra contracted from above downwards, as if by absorption of a pathological kind. 979- Four specimens of the union of two ribs by a connecting' bar of ossification, in one instance one of the ribs so united is bifid at its anterior extremity. (Dry) 980. Portion of sternum, with costal cartilages and ends of ribs attached to show a curious arrangement in connexion with fourth rib of right side. In addition to a complete costal cartilage uniting it to the sternum, there is, above that, a cartilage coming off separately from the sternum and ending in a fine point which, however, looks towards the upper angle of the extremity of the rib, and may have been united to it^by fibrous tissue. (Dry) 981. Cervical and two thoracic vertebra;, articu- lated to show seventh cervical, which has a pair of ribs, that of the right side osseously united to it, that of the left side articulat- ing with it. (Dry) 982. A right rib, apparently the third, widened out and bifid in front. Preserved by Dr. Wm. Allen. (Dry) 983. A first and second left rib, united together extensively along their shafts.