20 both the united heads and a symmetrical. the opposite direction and narrowing o senarate fossa On each side of this mesial structure is seen a separate toss: biis cranii and tentorium, so that the structure itself represents the adjacent great sphenoidal wings of the two emb,[y°sn Ojfj the linear portion of this structure were several fine slips of muscle probably muscles of the orbit pQinting to the mark in the integument mentioned (828) as representing the site of a conjunct eye. 8*6. human Eye, from a German Jew (?), with the sclerotic divided equatorially, and reflected forwards and backwards so as to exhibit the choroid and some of the ciliary nerves. 1 here is scarcely any membrana fusca. A window is torn open in the choroid so as to show the ring of ciliary processes; and the flap of choroid reflected from this window shows the transpaient membrane of Bruch. 837. From the same subject as 836. Has the fore part of the sclerotic separated almost entirely from the ciliary ligament so as to show the ciliary muscle with the ciliary nerves entering it, and on the anterior margin of the sclerotic^ the pigmented ring which formed the outer wall of the canal of Fontana. 838. Stomach, intestine and swimming bladder of Argentina hebridica. The stomach almost black, as was also the parietal wall of the abdominal cavity; the intestine, perfectly straight from beyond the two pyloric appendices, loses its pigment in the hinder half and is ringed from beyond the pigmented half to about half an inch from the vent. lhe ductless swimming bladder is densely silvery. 839. Skeleton of Argentina hebridica (the Hebiidal smelt). 840. Pinna and external auditory meatus of new-born infant. The cylindrical cartilaginous portion of the meatus is continuous with an expanded membranous disc corresponding in extent with the tympanic ring against which it lay, forming the outer wall of a flat chamber external to the tympanic membrane and communicating at its upper part with the tubular meatus. It is in this disc that the osseous part of the wall of the meatus is afterwards developed in continuity with the annular attachment of the membrana tympani. 841. Brain of foetus of seventh month. Sagittal section of right side. There has been considerable effusion into the