2S2 entrees. pour the sauce over, and serve with sippets of fried or toasted bread (cut into the shape of hearts) around. The remains of pheasant, or any other game may also be minced and warmed in a little of the above sauce, and served Mi l poac lec eggs upon the top, or likewise made into boudins and croquettes, as directed for turkey. 513. GROUSE.—The Scotch method is to plain roast the grouse rather underdone, butter and flour while roasting dress it upon toast, and pour plain melted butter over. But they may be dressed in any of the ways directed for pheasants, with the exception of being stewed with cabbage as may be likewise every description of black game. 574. STEWED PARTRIDGES WITH CABBAGE.— Have two nice partridges trussed as for boiling, and run five or six slices of fat bacon, of the thickness of a quill, lengthwise tin ough the breast, but not to protrude, and roast them fifteen minutes before a moderate fire; have some cabbage stewed as directed for pheasant with cabbage, but stewed nearly dry before tin usting in the partridges, keep the whole hot, but not boiling, for about an hour; have ready two pork sausages, nicely broiled, dress the cabbage, which must be quite dry, upon your dish in a mound, with the partridges at the top, half buried in it, cut the bacon in halves, placing a piece at each end, with a sausage at each side; pour half a pint of game sauce round and serve; good plain gravy is also very nice. 575. PARTRIDGE SAUTE WITH MUSHROOMS.— Have two young partridges, each of which cut in halves, and lay in a convenient sized steM'pan, into which you have pre- viously poured two or three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, first season them lightly with a little white pepper, and salt, and a sprinkle of chopped eschalots; put a cover upon the stewpan, which place over a moderate fire, until one side of the partridges is browned, turn them over, proceed the same way until browned on both sides; pour off part of the oil, and add half a table- spoonful of flower, which well mix in, then add a glass of sherry, a pint of broth, and twenty small button mushrooms (previously blanched); let it simmer, skimming off all the oil which rises to the surface, until the partridges are tender, and the sauce thick enough to adhere to them; season the sauce a little if required, dress the partridges upon a dish, sauce over and serve.