421 THE BACHELOR’S DINNER. The next course should consist of a boiled and roast Remove and two Entrees. To those who know artistically how to eat a dinner, it may appear strange when I tell them that I have known those who have considered themselves gourmets commence this course with the Entrees. The plan which ought to be followed is to begin with the boiled, and if your appetite is good, to slightly touch the roast, partaking of wines according to the nature of the dish ; for instance, boiled poultry with oyster sauce, return to Chablis; lamb, with caper sauce, to Hock or Moselle; roast mutton, light Claret; roast beef, Sherry or Madeira. The two substantiate having been dis- posed of, the palate has now arrived at that degree of perfection (supposing the wines partaken of to have been good of their kind, for nothing destroys the reputation of a good dinner more than bad wines), the art of the cook as displayed in his Entrees now engages the attention of the guests. These Entrees should be as different as possible, and also differ from the roast and boiled. With the Entrees, whatever their nature, it is generally the custom to partake of Champagne. This, when ladies are at the table, I do not object to, as they are not supposed to be professors in the science of eating, but with the real epicure it is a sin I cannot pardon. The wine to be partaken of depends upon the nature of the Entree, but should never be of that luscious description as to overpower that delightful sensation of taste pro- duced by the "plat.” Ihese having been removed, and their places occupied by two dishes o nicely roasted game and four Entremets, as, for instance, woodcocks an pheasants, or even a fine larded capon and wild fowl, and one savory one vegetable, and two sweets as Entremets. With the roasts I prefer Claret or red Burgundy; with the Entremets may be served the Champagne These Entremets should display the skill of the preparer, not in a way that anything about them cannot be partaken of, but that what they are made of may delight the sight as well as the taste. The roast should be re- movcd with two dishes, containing either a souffle, a pudding, or a Charlotte and a Nesselrode pudding, or something of that nature. These bein-r dis- posed of, I would have the dessert placed upon the table, with the cheese handed round and at the same time a loving cup, or if that is not to be obtained, a tankard full of the same liquid. Port wine may be partaken of wi h the dessert. The plates should be changed as often as required, and not left, as at present, to receive a collection of orange and apple peel and othei refuse. During the time this is being partaken of—say twenty minutes to half an hour, or even longer, so much depending upon the Amphitryon and Ins guests—the coffee ought to be introduced, and with a cW m/e the table is cleared, or the guests go into the drawing-room should the unhappy bachelor happen to have one, and the remainder of the evening maybe passed according to the disposition and taste of the party, such as music, cards, &c. ; and I am afraid the enjoyment of the evening would not be complete without cigars.