186 REMOVES. ■will feel as soft as possible, when see that your head is in the centre of the ■dish ; your tongue divided in two and placed on each side of it: sharp sauce, according to No. —> is allowed to he served with either head or tongue.” I assure you, dear, although I do not profess to be a first-rate scholar in that fashionable language—French, I believe this to be as near as possible the true translation of the original. Then follow calves’ feet, which is nearly as absurd as the former : “ Pied de Veau au naturel,” Calves’ Feet, the natural -way.—“ Choose your fine feet in the rough state, and, as with your head, place a pan of water on the fire; when hot, but not too much so, put jour feet in the water for about ten minutes, try if you can easily clean them as your head with a knife, if not, add a spoonful of salt in the water, and let them remain a few minutes longer; then scrape like your head; when well cleaned wipe them dry, and they are ready for dressing, which may be done in almost twenty different ways. (See the series ‘ How to cook Pigs’ Feet.’) When your feet are tender, set them on a dish, take out the big bone, surround them with sausage-meat; wrap them up in caul, and form a heart with them; then place your feet on a gridiron, let them gently broil, and, when done, eat them for breakfast or luncheon.” (After which a gentle walk might give you an appetite for dinner.) CALF’S HEAD (No. 335) may be dressed thus Half of the bead will make a good dish for a remove; lay it in the dish very hot, having previously drained it well; have ready about a pint of Hollandaise or cream sauce, No. 301, pour it over and serve. It may be surrounded with a dozen new potatoes if in season, or some quenelles, or quarters of hard-boiled eggs ; a little chopped parsley thrown on the head when the sauce is over it, makes it look very inviting. It can also be served “ a la poulette,” by putting a pint of white sauce in a stewpan; have peeled and cooked about fifty button onions in white broth, to which you have added a little sugar and butter, and a few mushrooms; add the broth, onions, and sauce together, and when on the point of boiling, add a liaison of two yolks of eggs, and the juice of a lemon; stir it well round; it ought to be the