ENTREES. 260 them on a napkin, or a border of mashed potatoes. Every kind of remains of game, meat, poultry, and fish, may be made the same way: if no sauce, add a little more flour, and use milk or broth. 503. FRICASSEE OF FOWL.—Divide*a fowl into eight pieces, as Iso. 504, wash it well, put the pieces into a stewpan, and cover with boiling water, season with a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, a good bouquet of parsley, four cloves, and a blade of mace; let it boil twenty minutes; pass the stock through a sieve into a basin; take out the pieces of fowl, trim nicely, then put into another stewpan two ounces of butter, with which mix a good spoonful of flour, moisten with stock, put in the pieces of fowl, stir occasionally until boiling, skim well, add twenty button onions, let simmer until the onions are. tender, when add a gill of cream, with which you have mixed the yolks of two eggs, stir it quickly over the fire, but do not let it boil; take out the pieces, dress in form of pyramid upon the dish, and serve. If you require to warm up the remainder of the above, put it into a basin, which stand in a stewpan in which you have placed a little water, put the cover over, and let it boil gently, by which means the contents of the basin will get warm without turning the sauce; when hot, dish up and serve. The same plan ought to be adopted to warm up any remains of dishes in which a liaison has been introduced.; it prevents its turning, which is unavoidable in any other way. 504. FOWL SAUTE.—Pluck and draw a fowl, cut it into pieces, seven or eight, as you like, that is, the two French wings, the two legs, the breast in one or two pieces, and the back in two; trim nicely, put into a sautepan two ounces of butter, put it on the fire; when hot, lay in your pieces, add a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, saute gently, turn over; when of a nice gold colour and tender, pour the fat out of the pan, add a glass of sherry and ten spoonfuls of brown sauce, and six of broth, boil ten minutes longer, but very slowly, skim, and serve in form of pyramid; sauce over. 505. THE SAME, A PLAINER WAY.—When prepared and cooked as above, instead of the sauce, which may not be handy, add a spoonful of flour, which dredge over till it is well mixed, then add half a pint of boiling water, a few" drops of colouring or some mushroom catsup, two teaspoonfuls of salt,