384 DESSERT. over and let infuse ten minutes; in another stewpan have the yolks of twelve eggs, to which add the milk by degrees (pre- viously straining it), place over the fire, keeping it stirred until adhering to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammy into a basin, add the syrup and pineapple, and freeze it as in the last, adding a pint and a half of whipped cream; when half frozen, use where directed. 909. LEMON ICE CREAM.—Take the rind from six lemons as thin as possible and free from pith, squeeze the juice of the lemons into a sugar-pan, with half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water, place it upon the fire and reduce until rather a thickish syrup, have a pint and a half of milk upon the fire, into which, when boiling, throw the rind of the lemons, cover over and let remain until half cold; in another stewpan have the yolks of twelve eggs (to which you have added an ounce of sugar), with which mix the milk by degrees, and stir over the fire till it adheres to the back of the spoon, when stir in the syrup and pass it through a tammy; when cold, freeze as directed (No. 905) adding a pint of whipped cream when half frozen. 910. ORANGE ICE CREAM.—Proceed precisely as in the last, but using the juice and rind of ten oranges instead of lemons as there directed. 911. APRICOT ICE CREAM.—Procure a dozen and a half of fine ripe apricots, which cut in halves, take out the stones, which break, extracting the kernels, which blanch in very hot water, and skin, then put them with the apricots into a sugar- pan, with half a pound of sugar and half a glassful of water, let them boil until almost forming a marmalade, when put them by in a basin; have the yolks of twelve eggs in a stewpan, with which mix by degrees a pint and a half of milk, set over the fire, keeping it stirred until thick enough to adhere to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammy into a basin, add the syrup and apricots, and, when cold, three glasses of noyeau, freeze as in No. 905, and, when half frozen, add a pint of good whipped cream. 912. STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM.—Procure about two pounds of fine ripe strawberries, which pick and rub through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, obtaining all the juice and pulp of the stra wberries, with which mix half a pound of pow dered