ENTREES. 239 little broth or water, and let it boil for twenty minutes; take them out and dry them in a cloth, egg and bread-crumb them, tie them on a spit, and roast a nice brown colour for ten to fifteen minutes; or they may be browned in an oven, or fried in very hot lard for ten minutes, in which case they should stew a little longer; they may be served with plain gravy and a piece of toasted bread under, or a little melted butter and some of either Harvey’s Reading, or Soyer’s sauce, and a little catsup added to it, boiled and poured round it; or with any of the sauces . for fricandeau. The heart-bread being generally so expensive, I seldom make use of it, but it may be blanched, larded, cooked, and served like the fricandeau, diminishing the larding and cooking according to the size of the bread, or itmay be dressed as above, or, if a large throat-bread, it may be larded. 448. SWEETBREADS SAUTE.—Blanch two throat- sweetbreads as in the preceding receipt, cut them in slices, put some butter in a frying-pan, and melt; then put in the sweet- bread, season over with salt, pepper, juice of a lemon, and a little chopped parsley, and a bay leaf; turn them until done, and serve very hot, with maitre-d’hbtel sauce over. 449. ANOTHER WAY.—Prepare as above; add a little flour and a gill of broth, a few raw mushrooms, stir continually to prevent burning, add a few spoonfuls of cream, and serve. It any remain, do them au grcitin, that is, put them in a pie- dish or flat plated dish, brown, bread-crumb over, add a little broth, put into an oven, and, when very hot, serve. , fp0' y CUTLETS (old English method.)—Cut a steak alt an inch thick from a leg of veal, egg and bread crumb it put into a sautdpan a piece of butter, and when hot lay in the veal cook it quickly, turning occasionally, when done remove to a dish, put a little more butter into the sautepan with a little flour, when brown add a little water and the juice of half a emon, pepper, and salt, let it boil up, pour over the cutlet, and serve with broiled or boiled ham or bacon. 451 VEAL CUTLETS AUX FINES IIERBES. Cut irom the neck the same as you would from mutton, only of course, larger; sprinkle with salt, pepper, and chopped eschalot set them on a gridiron and broil like common chops; serve