163 PISH SAUCES. half a pint of water; set it on the fire to stew, gently- tossing it now and then, when tender, which you may easily ascertain by feeling with your' finger the different pieces, mix a spoonful of flour with two ounces of butter, which put bit by bit in the pan, move it round by shaking the pan, not with any spoon; boil a few minutes longer, and serve, dishing the fish in pyramid, sauce over; if the sauce is too thin, reduce it till it adheres to the back of the spoon; taste; if it is highly seasoned, a few sprigs of thyme or bay-leaf may be added. Some of the fish may be done sooner than the others; if so, take them out first, and keep warm until all are done. The motive of mixing fish is, that it is supposed the flavour of all together is finer than one alone. Conger eel is also done in this way. FISH SAUCES. In all ages and countries at all removed from barbarism, where fish has formed an article of diet, sauces of various kinds have been an accompani- ment.. With the Romans, in the time of Lucullus, great care was observed m their preparation ; amongst others which they used, and the most cele- brated, was the Garum and the Muria. The Garum, was a sauce which the Romans used in almost all their dishes ; the most esteemed was that which came from Antipolis and from Dalmatia. Horace praises that made at Byzance, it was the most esteemed and the most expensive ; its composition is unknown. This is a subject well worth the atten- tion of the epicures of the present day; they should subscribe and offer a pre- mium for that which, in their opinion, may resemble it: it is a subject well worthy the attention of the Professors of our Universities. Perhaps some leaf yetundiscovered, that may have escaped the conflagration of Alexandria, might t row some light upon so interesting a subject. It appears that mushrooms en ered greatly into its composition ; and that parts of mackerel, or of that series, formed another. The question is, at what tfme of the year were M 2