OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. Bath Herald.—“ We recommend this volume to the notice of the ‘ fair daughters of Albion ’ to whom it is presented, assuring them that an attention to its sound and economical rules will do much to insure the hap- piness and comfort of a well-regulated household.” The Scotsman.—“Here is an elegant and refined cookery book, not a diy commonplace collection of receipts, but a select system of culinary economy. Soyer is by turns philosophical, scientific, historical, picturesque, dramatic, and poetical.” Manchester Examiner.—“To all good wives, therefore, and gentle daughters, aunts, mothers, and grandmothers, we say, as no doubt our ingenious author would say, ‘Read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest.’ ” Leicester Chronicle.—" The book can hardly fail to be a general favourite.” Bucks Herald.—“ To illustrate the economy and the advantage of good cookery is the object of M. Soyer’s most excellent work—a work de- serymg of a place in every lady’s library, or rather, of a constant place on her Birmingham Journal.—“The ethics of boiling and simmering are inculcated in the manner of Chesterfield indoctrinating his offspring with the principles of politeness.” ° Norfolk News.—" This is a very unique performance. It is not merely tne art of cookery made easy, but the practice of cookery made in- teresting. The first impression of the work was sold in a few days.” Edinburgh Courant.-" The work upon our table is wholly B.rf1*to1 Mirror—“ That most accomplished professor of the culinary ar if. Soyer has, m the volume before us, produced a work which will bo really invaluable to housewives.” Bristol Mercury.—“The elements which in the hands of ‘a good ^ l Kg°+,t0 f.™8]1 aoU indifferent and hardly-digestible meal, are sublimated by the skill of a Soyer.” Oxford University Herald.-" We may safely commend the book to ad our readers who have anything to do either with cookery or housewifery To the wives and daughters of the Clergy we should Zy it ho “ Z Z Taima- Whether With reference t0 the tables of their own thevt f' °j the dfary 0f the Sick P°0r' Wll0m ^ ~ much real charT they tend and provide for.” - Cambridgeshire Chronicle—“ It contains a great deal of good practical advice, and we suspect that by attention to its directions our 6 0 1Vlr,g migllt be considerably improved, without adding to its cost.”