SECOND COURSE. 341 or, for the want of one, a red-hot shovel, full of live coals, may- be used; serve in the form of a pyramid. A little currant jelly in the ring looks well. 764. FLANC OF FRUIT.—This requires a mould the same as No. 652; it must be well wiped with a cloth, butter it, then take the remains of puff paste, and roll it well so as to deaden it, then roll it out a size larger than your mould, and about a quarter of an inch thick, place your mould on a baking- tin, put the paste carefully in the mould and shape it well, to obtain all the form of the mould, without making a hole in it; put a piece of paper at the bottom, fill with flour to the top, and bake a nice colour; it will take about half an hour; then take out the flour and paper, open the mould, and fill it. 765. FLANCS, with any kind of fruit, like a vol-au-vent, are more easily made, and are equally as good a side dish. This may be made of half-puff or short paste, and fill with raw cherries and some pounded sugar over; bake together. Greengages, apricots, or any kind of plums, will require a hotter oven than for flour only in it, the fruit giving moisture to the paste; if baked in a slow oven will be heavy, and consequently indigestible. 166. ANOTHER.—If you have no mould, make a quarter of a pound of paste (No. 749), roll it round or oval to your fancy, a quarter of an inch thick, wet the edge all round about half an inch, raise that part, and pinch it with your thumbs and fingers, making a border all round, put on a baking-sheet, fill it with one row of fruit—if large, two rows; remove the stones, and sift sugar over according to the acidity of the fruit; it will take less time, too, than if in a mould: you see what variation can be made with very little trouble or expense. fn -^ANC OF APPLES.—I just perceive that I had torgot to give you a few receipts in this way of cake, which I make very pretty when we have a party. Take eight Ribstone pippins, cut in four, peel a nice shape, rub with lemon, put half Ln°und °?1fUg"“ a ,pan’ cover with cold water, juice of lemon; 1 till rather thick, then add half the apples, simmer till tender, put them on a plate, do the remainder the same way, reduce the syrup a little, put the apples in a basin, pour syrup over "“hen So 764V" nn,mi “ “ie crust’ wUch 3™ tave prepared as JNo 764, pour over the syrup, which should be a jelly.1 I often