soyer’s modern housewife. Gloucestershire Chronicle—“This is a ' Gastronomic Rege- nerator’ in little—a perfectly distinct work, and on a different plan; but still, alike in treatment.” K.cnt Herald.—“ The work is comprehensive beyond any of a similar character with which we are acquainted.” Principality.—“ Like its author, this book is without a parallel.” Berkshire Chronicle.—“We can honestly recommend it to the public favour; for its contents, as well as its subjects, deserve to be well digested.” 2ra. “ In this work he never loses sight of economy, but shows how it may be observed to the greatest possible advantage.” Morning- Post—“ Henceforth no cook, no countess, no scholar, no scullion, no philosopher, no feeder, will think an establishment complete where the 'Modem Housewife’ is not present.” Britannia.—“Ihe attempt of M. Soyer to render his skill as sendee- able at the tables of little people as it has already been at the feasts of the great, will most likely be successful—he will show how the humblest food may be most palatably dressed, and made most conducive to health and enjoyment.” Bconomist.—“ M. Soyer is to make families happy by teaching wives how to prepare food cheaply and serve it well.” Literary Mirror.—“ Confessedly by all, M. Soyer stands on the pinnacle of fame in this respect. He is the arbiter eler/antiarum on all table subjects, and has pierced the innermost penetralia of every mystery on the subject of diet and its preparation. He is Sir Oracle : and when he speaks, let all men be dumb.” J ohn Bull—“intends to make a daily trial of the receipts before he will give an opinion, that the great culinary reformer and his menagere will improve upon acquaintance.” Rorth British. Mail.—“We heartily advise all pleasant hus- bands and judicious wives to purchase it without delay.” Bridg-ewater Times—" To all who are not too old to learn, or too proud to receive instruction, this book will prove a most useful adviser.” Literary Gazette.—“ With regard to the book, for economy and comfort, neatness without extravagance, and a thousand lessons for com- pounding pleasant and palatable dishes, the fair menagere is to be glorified. We may truly state that a more instructive cookery book could not be desired.”