BILLS OP FARE. 416 pie the same as Nos. 530, 654, of which, by my recommendation, everybody partakes; I then on each of the wings have Fowls, Lobster Salads, Mayon- naises of Fowl, Ham, Tongue, cut in slices, and dished over parsley, orna- mented with Aspic jelly; and on the sideboard I have a fine piece of Sirloin of beef, plain roasted, or an Aitch-bone of Beef, or Fillet of Veal. Should there be no game, I have a Turkey or Fowls en Galantine, instead of the Grouse-pie, or if game is plentiful, I have less poultry, and add roast Pheasants —mind, not fowls with black legs larded, and a pheasant’s tail put to them, but real ones,—or Partridges or Grouse, or a fine Salad of Game. With the Sweets I generally place about twelve—four on each table, that is, 4 Jellies, 2 Creams, 2 Bavaroises, 4 Iced Cabinet Puddings, and 4 Raised Dishes of small pastry', all of which are artistically disposed upon the table. The fruits are likewise placed on the table; they consist of simple Compotes, 6 of various kinds and 6 of Dried Fruit, Biscuits, Wafers, and Cossacks, which last are getting much out of fashion, but. are very amusing. The following is the bill of fare for Mr. B.’s Birthday Party, for which he allows me £15, with which I find everything in the shape of refreshments, with the exception of wine? it is One Raised Pie—Two Mayonnaises of Fowl—Two Lobster Salads—One Piece of Roast Beef-Four Dishes of Fowl—Two Dishes of Pheasant—Four Dishes of Tongue—Four Dishes of llam-Four Jellies with Fruit—Two Creams with Noyeau—Two Flanes with Apple Meringue—Two Iced Cabinet Puddings—Two Puddings u la Eloise—Six Various Pastry—Eight Various Compotes—Four Pieces Montees in China with Bonbons, Cos- sacks, &c.—Four of Fruit, as Pears, Grapes, &c.—Four of Dried Fruit, &c.—Four of Biscuits, &c. Tliis perhaps may appear extravagant, but we always have them, some country friends stopping a few days with us, so that I manage to make the best of everything, and make my week’s account look very well. AYe some- times have as many' as sixty on an evening. Our Children’s Parties are as follow, there are generally about 50 present: 16 Dishes of Sandwiches. 4 Dishes of Lamb. 4 Dishes of Ham. 4 do. of Slices of Beef. 4 do. of Tongue. 6 do. of Fowls. 10 Dishes of Slices of Galantine of Veal. 1 Dish of Dressed Beef. 24 Dishes of Ararious Pastry, Custards, Jellies, Bonbons, &c. But I remember when in business, on those occasions we only used to have a large quantity of Sandwiches and Patties, and used to amuse the children by labelling the Dishes as Sandwiches of Peacock’s Tongues, Patties of Partridges’ Eyes, &c., and also a large quantity of plain Sweets; and at that period Mr. B’s birthday party was not so extensive or recherche as at present. It consisted of something like the following: A ltoast Turkey—2 Dishes of Fowls—1 Ham—2 Pigeon Ties—1 Piece of Boiled Beef—4 Lobsters—4 Salads—4 Jellies—4 Tarts 4 of Preserved Fruit, &c.—4 of Pastry; with about 12 of various kinds of Fruit, <tc