195 REMOVES. which the grass; the latter has the most flavour, but the former is consi- dered the most delicate. Tlie same rules for cutting up should be observed as in the sheep. The fore-quarter consists of a shoulder, neck, and breast together; if cut up, the shoulder and ribs. The hind-quarter is the leg and loin, lhe head and pluck consist of the liver, lights, heart, nut and melt, as also the fry, which is the sweetbread, bits and skirts, and part of the liver. The fore-quarter should be fresh, the hind-quarter should hang, it should be of a pale colour and fat. The vein in the fore-quarter ought to be blueish and firm; if yellow or green, it is very stale. To ascertain if the hind-quarter is fresh, pass your finger under the kidney, and if there is a faint smell it is not fresh. If there is but little flesh on the shoulder, it is not fine lamb; those that have short wool I have found to be the best flavoured. Nothing differs so much in flavour and goodness as this; much depends upon the kind of pasture on which the ewe is fed; that which is obtained when it is the dearest has but little flavour, and requires the addi- tion of lemon and cayenne to make it palatable. 351. NECK OF LAMB A LA JARDINIERE.— Plain roast the neck, as you would that of mutton; and whilst it is roasting, cut one middling-sized carrot in small dice, the same quantity of turnip, and thirty button onions; wash all in cold water, put them in a small stew- pan, with one ounce of butter and half a teaspoonful of sugar, place on the fire till no liquid remains in the stew- pan ; add to it a gill of brown sauce, half a one of broth, add a small bouquet of parsley and bay-leaf; after once oiling, set it to simmer on the corner of the stove, skim off all the fat; when ready, taste if very palatable; it must be a nice brown colour, and the sauce lightly adhere to the back of the spoon; serve on the dish, place the neck over; white sauce may be used instead of brown, only add a spoonful of liaison when ready to serve. The sauce is equally good with almost any kind of meat, game, and poultry; it will often be referred to, therefore be particular f maklng lt; y°u can shape the vegetables in twenty dif- eient ways, by using either green peas, French beans o 2 *