•290 ROASTS—SECOND COURSE. These dishes consist almost always of game, which require to be sent up immediately they are taken from the fire, and require great care and atten- tion in cooking them. In the following pages will be found many which are scarce and rarely seen in London, and never mentioned in our various cookery books; but considering that many of our friends reside in the country, I have written it for them. 606. TURKEY POULTS.—Turkey poult3, so called from being used when about the size of a large pullet, are always roasted and trussed with the legs turned at the first joint, and the feet pressing upon the thighs, the neck is skinned, and the head fixed under the wing; roast them the same as directed for turkeys, about twenty-five minutes or half an hour, according to their size, and in the same modes, but they are usually served, one larded and the other barded, with gravy and water-cresses in the dish. 607. ROAST CAPON WITH CRESSES.—Roast and serve a capon in any of the ways directed for turkeys, roast of a nice "old colour, and serve with water-cresses round; a capon weigh- ing five pounds requires about three quarters of an hour to roast. Poularde au cresson exactly as above. 608. ROAST PULLET.—For a dinner of four entries you would'require two fowls, but not too large; truss and roast them as directed for a turkey, judging the time required according to their size, and serve with gravy and water-cresses; they maybe larded, barded, or served in any way mentioned in the foregoing receipts. A fowl weighing two pounds and a half would require half an hour roasting, or three quarters of an hour if larger. 609. SPRING CHICKENS are served like fowls, generally plain roasted, but they may be larded as the poularde. Be par- ticular in tying the legs upon paper to the spit, as directed for the turkey, as it so improves their appearance when roasted. About twenty minutes would be sufficient to roast them. 610. GOSLINGS.—A green goose roasted plain and served with a little gravy is generally sent up for second courses ; but if the larger ones are used they must be stuffed with sage and onions, but very few would choose such a thing for a roast second