CHO-CA. 4-22 Such, Hortense, is my humble opinion of what a bachelor’s party should be, for in these enlightened times it is not drinking to excess that constitutes the enjoyment of society, and a young man who gets inebriated is one to be shunned ; so different from what it was some forty years since, when a four- bottle man was one to be looked up to and followed. A NEW ALIMENT. LETTER XXV. Bifrons Villa. Here, dear Eloise, is an entirely new aliment, which lia3 never yet been introduced into this country, A semi-epicure of our acquaintance, on return- ing from his visit to the National Guard of France, presented me with a pound of it, which he had purchased in Paris; but even there, said he, it i3 almost in its infancy: you may fancy, if I were not anxious of making an immediate trial of it; but before I give you the receipt how to use it, let me tell you I have found it most delicious. Mr. B. has not yet tasted it, being for a week in the country, but I am confident he will like it, especially for breakfast: but the puzzle is, after my pound is used, how we are to get more ? Time, I suppose, will teach us. It appears that we are indebted for it to a celebrated French gentleman, M. le Docteur Lamolte, the inventor of the electric light, who ingeniously, though oddly, named it Cho-ca, being a scientific composition of chocolat and caf6, the alliance of which balancing admirably their excellence and virtue, and partly correcting their evils, the first being rather irritable, the second heavy. But I think, if my recollection serves me rightly, the idea of this compound must have originated from that great French philosopher, M. de Voltaire, who constantly, for his breakfast, partook of half cafe-au-lait and half chocolate, which were served at the same time in separate vessels in a boiling state, and poured from each slowly, about eighteen inches in elevation from his cup, -which, he said, made it extremely light and digestible. Years after, that still more extraordinary man, Napoleon Bonaparte, be- oame so partial to it, that he made a constant use of it, and it has often been remarked by those who surrounded his person, that after the great excite- ment and fatigue of a battle, he has often partaken of two or three cups, which seemed to restore all the strength and energy which used to charac- terise that great man; on ordinary occasions one cup would suffice him, but served more a la militaire, not being poured so scientifically as did the Femaise philosopher.