SECOND COURSE. 319 the Ostend, and this season those imported from Normandy, the celebrated Ttocher de Cancale, and Burton Bindons Red Bank. A very singular circum- stance, not generally known, is, that the finest oysters we have in England and in Ireland, both come from a place with the same name—namely, Bum- ham, that in England being in the county of Essex, and that in Ireland being in Clare. Of the latter, all the deep sea oysters unfed are the best, as their flavour is stronger and flesh firmer. No oyster should be eaten under four years old ; their age is known by their shell—iust the same as the age of a tree is known by its bark, or a fish by its scale, and the small oyster has the finest flavour. 688. ESCALOPED OYSTERS.—Pat two dozen of oysters with their liquor into a stewpan, place over a fire, and when a little firm, drain them upon a sieve, catching the liquor in another stewpan; detach the beard from the oysters, and throw them again into their liquor; add half a blade of mace, place again upon the fire, and, when boiling, add a piece cf butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour; shake round over the fire until becoming thick, season with a little cayenne, and salt if required; have an escalop shell, well-buttered and bread-crumbed; place the oysters in, sprinkle bread-crumbs over, put it in the oven a quarter of an hour, pass the salamander over, and serve. The yolk of eggs may be added, and less flour. 689. STEWED OYSTERS.—Blanch and beard the oysters as above; when done, put them with their liquor in a stewpan, with four cloves, a blade of mace, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies with a little chopped parsley and cayenne; let simmer a minute, stir in two pats of butter with which you have mixed half a teaspoonful of flour, let simmer a little longer, lay the oysters in a dish upon a piece of toast, and sauce over. 690. FRIED OYSTERS.—Open carefully one or two dozen of large oysters, put them in a small stewpan upon the fire, to blanch for a few minutes without boiling, then take out the oysters, put them on a sieve, beard them, save the liquor for sauce; lay them on a cloth separately, to dry a little, break a fresh egg on a plate, beat it well with a fork, then dip each oyster separately into it; have ready about half a pound of bread- crumbs, in which you put a spoonful of chopped parsley, little grated nutmeg, roll them in it, take them out, shape them with the knife, put them in a small wire basket, one minute only in a tew pounds of hot lard or fat. (See Frying, p. 70.) Dish on