354 JELLIES. remove it to tlie corner of the fire, and simmer for five hours, keeping it skimmed, pass through a hair sieve into a basin, and let it remain until quite hard, then remove the oil and fat, and wipe the top dry. Place in a stewpan one gill of water, one of sherry, half a pound of lump sugar, the juice of four lemons, the rinds of two, and the whites and shells of five eggs, whisk until the sugar is melted, then add the jelly, place it on the fire, and whisk until boiling, pass it through a jelly-bag, pouring that back again which comes through first until quite clear; it is then ready for use, by putting it in moulds or glasses. 804. GELATINE AND ISINGLASS JELLY is made as above,usi ng one ounce and a half of either, and boil in one quart of water, reduce to half; if not required very clear, as for lemon jelly, it need not be run through a bag, but merely through a fine sieve. 805. HARTSHORN JELLY.—Use half a pound of harts- horn shavings, boil in three quarts of water, and reduce to one; proceed as before. Also Arney’s jelly powder can be used instead of any of the above, by dissolving in boiling water. 806. GOLD or SILVER JELLY, or both mixed, is made with eau de vie de Dantzic, mixing the gold or silver leaves with a little jelly, ornamenting the bottom of the mould with it, which place in ice till set, fill with very clear calf’s foot jelly. It can also be made by cutting up a quarter of a sheet of gold leaf in a glass of pale brandy, and use as the former. 807. MARESQUINO JELLY is made by mixing six liqueur-glasses of maresquino with a quart of clarified calt s toot jelly; peaches or other fruits cut in quarters may be added. 808. RUM-PUNCH, CURACOA, NOYEAU, are made with the same quantity, and as the former. 809. FRENCH JELLIES may be made with all kinds of fresh fruits, filling the mould by degrees, the jelly first, let it set, then the fruit, and so on till full, the mould being buried in ice; when ready to serve dip in hot water, mix it well, and turn out carefully on your dish. In the winter, preserved limits in syrup may be used, decorating the mould with them, pouring in a little jelly at a time until it is cold, and fill up by degrees; proceed as above.