427 THE SEPTUAGENARIAN EPICURE. medium scale of the regular meals of the day, from which I have taken my basis, and in sixty years it amounts to no less than 59 tons 5 cwts., 1 quar. 20J lbs. weight of meat, farinaceous food, vegetables, liquids, &c. ; out of which I have named in detail the probable delicacies that would be selected by an epicure through life. But observe that I did not count the first ten years of his life, at the beginning of which he lived upon pap, bread and milk, &c., also a little meat, the expense of which I add to the age from ten to twenty, as no one can really be called an epicure before that age ; it will thus make the expenses more equal as regards the calculation. The following is the list of what I consider his daily meals :— Breakfast.—Three quarters of a pint of coffee, four ounces of bread, one ounce of butter, two eggs, or four ounces of meat, or four ounces of fish. Lunch.—Two ounces of bread, two ounces of meat, or poultry, or game, two ounces of vegetables, and half a pint of beer or a glass of wine. Dinner.—Half a pint of soup, a quarter of a pound of fish, half a pound of meat, a quarter of a pound of poultry, a quarter of a pound of savoury dishes or game, two ounces of vegetables, two ounces of bread, two ounces of pastry or roasts, half an ounce of cheese, a quarter of a pound of fruit, one pint of wine, one glass of liqueur, one cup of coffee or tea ; at night one glass of spirits and water. Now that I have given you these important details, perhaps you will give me some little credit for my exaction and severity respecting the attention which ought to be daily paid to the indispensable and useful art of cookery by our middle classes. I shall also observe to you, that those masses of pro- visions above described in the expose of sixty years, have been selected, dressed, and served, by scientific hands, every real epicure choosing through life the best cook, and consequently the best of provisions, which, had they have fallen into the hands of inexperienced persons, would very likely have wasted one-third, thereby increasing the expenses, and never giving any real satisfaction to the consumer; therefore let us act in a small way as becomes us, as the wealthy do according to their incomes ; let every housekeeper devote more time to the study of domestic and practical economy ; and in many instances it will increase their incomes as well as their daily comforts, for as I remarked to you that the pleasures of the table being no, only the most expensive part of humaD luxury, but also the soul °of sociability, they require more attention bestowed upon them than is done at the present day. Fare you well. IIOItTENSE.