SAVOURY DISHES. 312 the juice of half one; season with a spoonful of salt, and a quarter one of pepper, and one quarter of a nutmeg; mix the whole with three whole eggs; this will do also to stuff turkey or baked fish, adding some more chopped parsley. 675. STUFFING FOR GEESE AND DUCKS.--See Geese. LETTER No. XVI. Leak Eloise,—To you who are so fond of lobster, the following receipt will, I am confident, prove most valuable. To make sure of its quality, buy one fresh-boiled, and heavy in proportion to its size; or, perhaps, entrc nous, you would prefer to wait until a friend presented you with one, like that Mrs. , your fishmonger’s wife, who used regularly to make you a present of one three or four times a week about a year and a half ago, and that the best she had in the shop, but to whom, on the sly, you used to pay a princely price for, and the poor man your husband, got at last so tired of them, that he went and begged of her to stop her shell-fish (selfish) present; and she, unwoman-like, off her guard, let, as the proverb says, “the cat out of the bag.” Well, after all, dearest, it is only Nature that was culpable, and not you. I have no doubt but what your dear Mr. L was tired of them, after they having been so long a constant dish at his table, that he used, as you say, to dream at night that he was hunted by the head constable of the raw or even boiled lobster, which is quite enough to torment any man, and all that for having tried to please you in making almost a turbot or a salmon of him- self, by serving him out continually with some of your sauce (lobster, I mean). But I must say that, after all, he has been well repaid for his culinary tanta- lization. Oh! by the bye, how is he, my little godson ? However, knowing that, after family matters, what interests you the most is our domestic journal, I therefore send you the receipts. SHELL FISH. LOBSTER.—This fish, which is continually before our eyes, and only looked upon as an article of food, is, without doubt, one of the wonders of the creation. A ereature destitute of bones, yet furnished with a stomach capable of digesting the hardest substances, even its own shell, which it doff once a year, when it is too small for it; without blood circulating through it body, yet strong and active. This is only one of those wonders of the mighty deep that we cannot but regard with awe and veneration, and yet the prin-