A. SOYEE & CO., 59, EENCHUECH ST., LONDON. SO YER’S MODERN HOUSEWIFE’S KITCHEN APPARATUS. Registered according to Act of Parliament. M. Sotee in writing his work on Cookery for the middle classes, naturally turned his attention to the most economical mode of cooking; and after having examined all the various plans now in use, found none that combined all that he required; he was therefore under the necessity of contriving a new Stove or Apparatus. It possesses, on a small scale, what the kitchen of the Beform Club has on a large one:—combining, in the first place, an excellent open roasting fire; secondly, a large oven, adapted for bread, meat, and pastry; thirdly, a hot plate, with a place for boiling, and twelve stew-pans, if required; fourthly, a circulating hot-water boiler, which is capable of keeping in a boiling state twenty-five gallons of water in any part of the house, all heated by one fire; it also combines the advantage of permitting the cook to walk round the stove, by which two, or even three persons can work at it with great facility at the same time; it likewise possesses the advantage of curing smoky chimneys, and of causing no dirt in the room, and also of consuming very little fuel. DIRECTIONS FOR USE. During the time cooking is going on, fill up the fire-place with coals to a level with the top of the boilers; should the heat in the oven be found too great, turn the damper; as soon as the cooking is over, and nothing but hot water is required, the fire may be allowed to go as low as possible, as very ! little will keep the water boiling. To Broil.—Kemove the round plate, and place the gridiron over; if the draught is proper, and the apparatus in good working order, the steam from the article broiling will be draw into the fire, if not, it shows it wants clearing. To Clean it.—Take up the square front plate, sweep out the soot from over the oven, open the soot-door at the back, and remove all dirt, &c. To Clean the Flue.—Open the soot-door in the flue, and use the patent ramoneure.