1250 ENTREES. already boiled, simmer and serve. Half an hour is sufficient to prepare this dish; peas left from a previous day can be used, also cauliflower if not too much broken, and gently simmered, also a few mushrooms, or if no vegetables, add a little liaison, and the juice of half a lemon. 471. LAMB’S FEET are much more delicate than sheep’s trotters, but they are cooked and dx-essed the same, only in less time. If there are any left cold, cut them in two, put them in a basin, pour over a glass of vinegar, half a ditto of oil, one onion sliced, salt, pepper, fry them for twenty minutes, dip each piece in a batter, and fry a nice yellow colour in fat; serve on a napkin. 472. LAMB’S HEART.—Six will make a nice dish; stuff like calf’s heart, only adding to it some bits of ham or red tongue; stew and serve with any kind of sauce. 473. LAMB CUTLETS.—Ten cutlets would be sufficient for a dish, for five persons, and might be cut from one neck, as described for mutton cutlets (page 247), but leaving them as large as possible; that is, about one third less than the mutton; season them lightly with salt and pepper, egg and bi-ead-crumb them over, afterwards beating them gently with a knife, to put them again into shape; then have a little clarified butter upon a plate, into which dip each cutlet separately, afterwards throw- ing them into bi-ead-crumbs, giving them another coat, and beat again. Then if wanted of a very nice colour, put four spoon- fuls of salad oil into a saute-pan, lay in the cutlets and set them over a sharp fire, turning when required; six or eight minutes would be sufficient to do them nicely; when done, lay them upon a cloth a moment to drain; glaze, and dish them upright, “ cn courro?ie,” upon your dish, and serve with stewed cucumbers in the centre. Lamb cutlets may also be served with stewed peas, French beans, spinach, aspai-agus, peas, sauce jardiniere, reforme, poive- rade, piquante, or maitre-d’hotel which will be found in the series of sauces; or lamb-cutlets may be broiled instead of sauteed or served a la Maintenon, as directed for veal cutlets. 474. LAMB CHOPS.—Select a fine loin of lamb with the kidney in it, trim off the flap, and with a very sharp knife cut your chops from half to three quarters of an inch in thickness,