326 VEGETABLES. of water, one ounce of salt, one of butter, and a few sliced onions; when tender, I make a border of mashed potatoes on a dish, fix them on it point upwards, sauce over with either cream sauce (No. 301), white sauce (No. 135), melted butter (No. 286), maitre-d’hotel, and place a fine Brussels sprout between each, which contrast is exceedingly inviting, simple, and pretty. 707. CUCUMBERS are most delicious stuffed and stewed, but very difficult to dress, and consequently chiefly used for entrees. They may, however, be treated like vegetable marrow. 708. ARTICHOKES.—Pull the tail off four or six small artichokes, trim the bottom slightly with a knife, cut the point of every leaf, wash well in plain water, put them on in plenty of water, with a little salt, to boil, let them thus remain about half an hour, or. until the leaves are easy to be removed, take them out and lay on a sieve to drain, and serve on a napkin, with melted butter separate. 709. BEETROOT.—This is a very good dish, and as I believe it has never been noticed in cookery, I must lay claim to its parentage; I have given the receipt to some friends, who highly approve of it. Take two nice young boiled beetroots, which will take about from two to three hours to simmer in plenty of boiling water, peel when cold, cut in slanting direction, so as to make thin oval pieces, peel and cut in small dice two middling-sized onions, put in a pan, with two ounces of butter, fry white, stirring continually with a spoon; add a spoonful of flour, and enough milk, to make a nice thinnish sauce, add to it three saltspoonfuls of salt, four of sugar, one of pepper, a spoonful of good vinegar, and boil a few minutes; put in the slices to simmer for about twenty minutes, have ready some mashed potatoes, with which make a thin border in your dish one inch high, then put the beetroot and sauce, highly seasoned, in the centre, and serve. A little cream may be added. 710. FRENCH BEANS.—These are also a great favourite with many. To dress it, head and tail them, drawing off the back string, cut in long diamonds, boil till tender in water in which salt has been placed, a quarter of a pound to a gallon, try them after a quarter of an hour’s boiling, drain them, lay them, on a dish one inch thick, sprinkle with a little salt, pepper, and