ENTREES. 361 and a half of pepper, add a bouquet of parsley, let it simmer for twenty minutes, skim, taste if your sauce is well seasoned, dish, your fowl, reduce your, sauce until adhering to the back of the spoon, add the juice of half a lemon, and serve. A few mush- rooms or English truffles may be added to it, which is a great improvement; the colour of the sauce ought to be brownish; take out the bouquet, which you have previously squeezed. 506. SAUTE OF FOWL WITH VEGETABLES— Proceed exactly as above, only omitting the wine, add to the sauce fifty heads of young green scallions, or some small pieces of carrot and turnip, or a pint of green peas, or cucumbers cut in nice pieces, stew till tender, add a spoonful of powdered sugar, dish the fowl, skim the sauce, take out the parsley; when your sauce is thickish and of a nice colour, pour over the fowl, and serve very hot. 507. FOWL SAUTE MARENGO, PARISIAN—Cut a fowl (like No. 504), which put into a stewpan, with three table- spoonfuls of salad-oil, over a moderate fire, shaking the stewpan round occasionally, until the pieces of fowl are rather bi’owned, when mix in a tablespoonful of flour, which moisten with a pint of stock or water, let it simmer at the corner of the fire twenty minutes, skimming off the oil as it rises to the surface; add a few blanched mushrooms in slices, season with a little salt, pepper, sugar, and a piece of scraped garlic the size of a pea; take out the fowl, which pile upon your dish, laying the worst pieces at the bottom; reduce the sauce over the fire, keeping it stirred until sufficiently thick to adhere to the back of the spoon, when pour over the fowl and serve. Use brown sauce. No. 136, if handy. 508. BLANQUETTES OF TURKEY—Cut off the flesh from the remainder of a roast or boiled turkey into as large thin slices as possible, then break up the bones, which put "into a stewpan, with a little lean bacon and an onion, and a small bouquet of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, just cover them with water, and boil gently for three quarters of an hour, skim, and pass tlie stock through a cloth, and with it make a little white sauce, then put the meat into another stewpan lightly seasoned with a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; just cover it with some of the sauce, and warm it gradually, not, however, per-