321 VEGETABLES. take them from the mortar, and form them into a ball; have a piece of panada (No. 673) one third the size of the ball, put the panada into the mortar, pound it well, then add two ounces of fresh butter, which mix well with the panada, add the fish, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg; mix all well together, and add by degrees three whole eggs and the yolks ot two, try it in a little boiling water, as directed for the forcemeat of veal. They are served generally as a meagre dish with a fish sauce, in Catholic families, especially in Lent°time. VEGETABLES. In describing to you, dearest, tlie different ways these may be dressed, I beg of you to make a constant use of them at your own table, as you will find that they will be much better than partaking of half-raw greens, cabbage, turnip tops, spinach, &c., which are so often served up at tables in this- country, and are less inviting in flavour, and consequently, do not get con- sumed so much as they ought, which causes more meat to be eaten, and, instead of refreshing the blood, as all vegetables will do in their season, only irritate it. . Do not misunderstand me respecting our English way of partaking of plain boiled vegetables ; I do not wish you to give them up entirely but by adopting both plans, you will find it a great advantage in your domestic cookery. For my part I never object to our plain boiled vegetables, but merely to the neglectful way they are cooked and served up, often swimmino- m water In France, no family in the middle station of life ever dine without their dish of dressed vegetables, upon which as much care has been bestowed Ihine^1115 ^ UP°n the PnnCipal disl1 °f the dinneD and is often eaten Knrnn^-AbStfAB C°°k itthus: 1 take a bundle and c ape lightly all the white part, beginning from the head down, and throw them when done into cold water, then tie them up in bundles of twenty-five each if an ordinary size, if very laro-e half that number, keeping the heads together, and cufoff the T^hv 8ame lengtb; W ready a Pan stain- ing one gallon of boiling water, in which has been thrown two unces ot salt, boil quickly for fifteen minutes, or till tender: dish them up with a piece of toast under, keep the heads even and form a pyramid. _ Serve very hot, with rich melted butter’ ci earn sauce, or plain if preferred. ’ Y