449 FOOD IN CHOLERA. remain from the previous day, prepare some rice curry with eggs, mix your remaining meat curry with it, put in dish, and hake; serve hot. I shall recommend (which is the opinion of my doctor) the lean part of a fine mutton chop well peppered, a saltspoonful of cayenne and salts of celery rubbed over; the darker red the flesh of the mutton, the more preferable; the same with beef: cut a slice of the fillet, extract all fat, and cook the beef like the mutton. The leg of a chicken well peppered as above, broiled quite dry; boil two eggs ten minutes, cut in four pieces, add a little pepper, salt, and a pat ox butter, serve with it any small quantity of rice. (See Receipt 729.) Let your doctor select any of those dishes for you, though the complaint is the same, our constitutions may require different treatment. Broth being very seldom recommended for cholera cases, but essence of beef and mutton may be taken by spoonfuls. (See Sick Room.) To vary the food for persons who are fond of sweets, put two ounces of rice, well washed, in a stewpan, add half a pint of milk, a pat of butter, a little powdered cinnamon, and a saltspoonful of sugar; when in rather thick pulp, add the yolks of two eggs; serve round, to be eaten either hot or cold. Prepare the same, but add a tablespoonful of tapioca and a little more milk ; place half in a dish, then some apricot marmalade or any jam, put the other half over, place in the oven, sugar over, bake twenty minutes. For rice milk (Riz au Lait), see p. 41; rice pudding, p. 52; but do not make them so delicate, as solid food is preferable. EGGS IN BUTTER.—Boil four eggs hard, cut them in slices, make in a. stewpan a little melted butter, put in the eggs, warm gently, add nutmeg ■grated, and finely-powdered salts of celery, and serve. Eggs Seasoned.—Cut an onion in dice, put in a pan on the fire half an ounce of butter, turn on the fire one minute, add a little flour and a gill of milk, boil five minutes, add four hard eggs, cut in large dice, season with salt, pepper, and salts of celery, and serve. WHEN CONVALESCENT.—If any beef-tea, or broth of any kind (seo Comforts for Invalids), make them stronger of meat. CURRY CUSTARD.—Break three whole eggs in a basin, and beat them up, add a quart of milk, a little salt, a very little sugar, and two teaspoonful3 of curry paste; bake in a dish or basin. This is very light and nutritious. For those who can afford it, roast a leg of mutton, and when nearly done put a hot dish under it, and with a sharp knife make several deep incisions in every part of it, let it remain two minutes longer, that all the gravy may fall into the dish, pour into a cup, take off the fat, and give to the patient as may be required; the mutton will do for curry or hash for the family. This may be called gigot de mouton sacrifie; but when life may almost depend upon this extravagance as you may call it, the expense must not be thought of. G G