878 DESSERT COMPOTES OF FRUIT SIMPLIFIED. As I usually make them when alone, or for a very homely dinner-party. The whole of the following must be done over a very slow fire. S88. PEARS.—Cut six ripe middling-sized pears in halves, peel neatly, cut out the cores, and put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the juice of a lemon, the thin rind cut into strips, and a very little drop of water; set them upon the fire, stewing them until tender; they will form their own syrup; put them in a basin until cold, when they are ready to serve. 889. RIBSTON PIPPINS.—Peel and cut four apples into quarters, take out the cores, and stew them as directed for pears, but using the rind of an orange instead of the rind of a lemon. 890. ORANGES.—Prepare four oranges as directed (No. 886), which put into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and the juice of another orange; set them upon the fire, and when the syrup becomes sufficiently thick to adhere to the pieces of orange, they are done; when cold, dress them in a circle upon your dish, with strips of angelica between each. 891. APRICOTS.—Cut eight unripe apricots into quarters, which put into a stewpan, with four ounces of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a drop of sherry, set them upon the fire, shaking the stewpan round occasionally, until the apricots ai'e tender, but not broken; a very few minutes would be sufficient to stew them, and when cold, they are ready to serve. For Peaches, proceed exactly the same; but if too ripe, they must be done as directed for compote of peaches. 892. GREENGAGES AND OTHER PLUMS.—Put twelve into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon and a little drop of water, set them over the fire, shaking the stewpan round occasionally until the fruit is tender, but not mashed; when cold, dress them in pyramid, and pour the syrup over. 893. CHERRIES.—Cut the stalks of a pound of Kentish cherries rather short, and put the fruit into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of sugar and the juice of a lemon; place