PASTRY. 340 760. DITTO, WITH STRAWBERRIES.—Pick two pot- tles of very fresh strawberries, not too ripe, put them in with two ounces of powdered sugar, a teaspoonful of powdered cin- namon, toss them gently in a basin, and serve immediately in your vol-au-vent. 761. DITTO, WITH APPLES.—This fruit being pro- curable all the year renders it one of very great convenience; Ribstone pippins are the best: cut in four, peel them, put a pint of syrup; when boiling, put in your apples, with the peel of half a lemon, and the juice of a whole one, let simmer till tender, put it in a basin, boil the syrup to a white jelly, let it stand till cold, put the apple in the vol-au-vent, and pour the syrup (cold) or jelly over; serve a few ornaments made with very green angelica. 762. ANOTHER METHOD.—Cut any kind of apple, rather thin, put over a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the rind of a lemon chopped, the juice of the same, one ounce of butter, and a glass of sherry; put on the fire; toss till tender, but keep it very white; put it in a basin; when cold, dish in your vol-au-vent; whip a gill of good cream, add ten drops of orange- flower water in it, cover over carefully and serve. Apple saute with butter, in this way, may be served hot in the vol-au-vent. Any kind of plums or apricots, when plentiful, may be done the same as cherries, and served the same way. 763. LITTLE FRUIT RISSOLETTES.—I also make with the trimmings of puff paste the following little cakes: if you have about a quarter of a pound of puff paste left, roll it out very thin, about the thickness of half a crown, put half a spoonful of any marmalade on it, about one inch distance from each other, wet lightly round them with a paste-brush, and place a piece of paste over all, take a cutter of the size of a crown piece, and press round the part where the marmalade or jam is with the thick part of the cutter, to make the paste stick, then cut them out with one a size larger, lay them on a baking-tin, egg over, then cut a little ring in paste, the size of a shilling, put it on them, egg over again, place in a nice hot oven for twenty minutes, then sugar over with finely sifted sugar, so as to make it quite white all over, then put back into the oven to glaze; should the oven not be sufficiently hot, take a salamander,