SAUCES. 88 parts more closely together; it causes white meat, such as veal and chicken, to boil whiter; In the prosecution of my experiments, I found that the softer the water, the quicker it boiled; and also that salt water would only boil at 213^°, instead of at 212°; the contents of salt being, in 1000 parts, 26-6, chloriate of sodium; 4-66, sulphate of soda; ls^, chloriate of calchium; and 5154, chloriate of magnesia ; and water containing 64 salt in 1000, boils at 2141° Fahr., 96 in 1000, 215£°; 128 in 1000, 216x7a°; 284 in 1000, at 226° Fahr. MILK is almost equally as essential in cookery as water, and a great deal depends upon its quality; but as we have promised to write a small work on Domestic Economy for the Cottage, we shall leave until then those novel particulars concerning it which is the result of our experience. We will now state here, that it consists of three parts—the caseous, the butyrous, and the serous. The first comprehends the gross, earthy particles, being car- bonate of lime, which serve to suspend the butyrous parts, and which, when coagulated by art, forms cheese. The second comprises the oily particles, or cream, which float on the surface of the milk, and can by agitation be con- verted into butter. The third is the watery part, which constitutes whey. The most palatable, wholesome milk is that which contains a due proportion of these three constituent parts. Milk, besides the uses we apply it to in the kitchen, is used for other purposes in branches of various manufactures, but more particularly for altering the colour of wines, as they change dark wines into perfect colourless. SAUCES. Sauces in cookery are like the first rudiments of grammar, which consist of certain rules called Syntax, and the foundation of all languages: these fundamental rules are nine, so Las cookery the same number of sauces, which are the foundation of all others; but these, like its prototype the grammar, have two—brown and white, which bear a resemblance to the noun and verb, as they are the first and most easily learnt, and most constantly in use; the others are the adjuncts, pronouns, adverbs, and interjections; upon the proper use of the two principal ones depends the quality of all others, and the proper making of which tends to the enjoyment of the dinner ; for to my fancy they are to cookery what the gamut is in the composition of music, as