CARVING OF POULTRY. 455 straight line with the breast-bone, you separate them obliquely, and all other parts as usual. Pheasants, Ducks, and all Wild Fowl especially, must be pre- pared in a similar manner. A Hare or Rabbit may also have the sinews and back-bone divided; to effect this you lay the hare upon its back, and give six cuts nearly through the back-bone, holding the Separator with both hands, through the belly part; then you truss it for roasting. If it should happen to be a very large hare, the fillets only are carved, and they ought to be cut in thin slices in an oblique direction, instead of straight along the back. A fowl which has been prepared with the Tendon Separator before roasting, can produce afterwards ten very inviting pieces, suitable to the fancy of as many guests. In the first place you take a carving fork, which you stick in the breast, between figs. 5 and 6, then you give a cut at the fillet, beginning at 1 down to 2; where you make the point of the knife cut through the joint of the wing, which by twisting a little will easily come asunder. The same operation is done from 3 to 4; and without removing the fork, you slide the knife under the leg at 7, and the same at 8, and both legs will immediately separate. The next cut is to be given at 5 to 6, and altei wards the back is divided in the same direction as the last numbers- as each leg is divided at the joint commonly called drumstick, it completes the ten parts. ^ Fuck. The best part of a duck is the breast, which s ould be cut in fillets obliquely, then the wings and the le^s, the same as the fowl, and the body in two. A Pheasant. The best parts are the breast and legs, which are carved the same as a fowl. A Partridge. The wings and the body are the best parts. A roast Hare must be cut along the spine, from the neck downwards to obtain the fillets, which ought then to be divided in parts, in the same oblique direction as the ribs. The le^s and shoulders are seldom carved, but they are, with the body excellent m a hash or stewed.