404 BUTTER, CHEESE, ETC. greatly amused with the various occupations going on in the farm, which is an old-fashioned one, tenanted by a good old English farmer, his wife, and son; the latter is gone to see a brother settled in Liverpool. The cleanliness and regularity of the house are quite charming; but what delights me more than all is the dairy—such delicious cream and butter that it makes me quite envy people living in the country! I must describe the pretty dairy to you: it is situated at the back of the house, and sheltered by it from the mid-day and afternoon’s sun, and from the morning’s sun by a plantation, so that it is deliciously cool; it is about twelve feet long by ten wide, paved with flag stones, and the walls of plaster, like stone, a door at one end with a window above and a window high up at the other end, and two windows at the side; these have thin wire shutters and glazed sashes on hinges; the roof is of slate, with about two feet thickness of thatch over it; there are also several little openings for the admission of air, about one inch from the floor. A dresser, two feet wide, being two inches from the wall, is on both sides, and above these are two shelves of nine inches wide also two inches from the wall, these are supported on iron brackets. At the end, and opposite the door, is the churn, which is turned by a wheel outside, with apparatus for a donkey or mule to work it, if required. AH the utensils are of sycamore wood and perfectly clean, never used twice without washing in hot water with soda put in it, and made perfectly dry. There are as many ways of making butter as there are counties in Great Britain. I will now tell you how it is practised here. The cows are milked at a regular hour, not later than five, the milk taken as soon as possible into the dairy, and placed in the dishes, about six quarts in each; it is thus left for twenty-four hours; then it is skimmed, and the cream from each is placed m a deep bowl or pan, where it remains until the next day, when it is churned. Eridav’s milk is made into cheese; when churned it is gathered well together from the milk and laid in a clean bowl, with hard spring water in it, and worked to and fro until it is brought to a firm consistence; it is then laid out thin, and then what is called here a scotclier is taken—that is, a kind of five-pronged fork of wood, only each prong is as sharp as a knife and drawn through every part of it; then whatever salt is required is added, and it is then formed into pats, or done any way they like. If intended as corned or salt butter, they then add one pound of fine salt to every fourteen pounds of butter; in some places the coarsest grained salt is used; in others two pounds o s. one pound of saltpetre, and one pound of white sugar mixed together, one fourth of this for every fourteen pounds. If intended for keeping, > is pu into stone crocks until it is wanted. The way in which they make the cheese here is as follows: all Friday’s milk is taken, that of the «’s P until the afternoon, and mixed with it; then two spoonfu so rtnnc <- ry twelve quarts of milk are put to it and well mixed, it is then left all g . Very early the next morning the curd is removed with mstramer and equa ly