SOYER S CHARITABLE COOKERY. 504 To an army it would be of great service; the boiler pan, and oven does not take up more space, or is of greater weight, than the forge of an artillery train. In addition to the boiler, several watei casks, placed on wagons, should accompany it, which would combine the advantage of taking water to any place where it is not easily attainable ; and at any time or place, in wo hours, rations could be cooked for twenty-five thousand men, and, including the boiler, would consist of a train of eleven wagons. By increasing the size of the apparatus, it could be easily doubled; and by using my portable cooking-barrows, the iood could be taken to any distance. I propose that these kitchens be erected in populous districts, and where there are any already erected, to adapt them by as little expense as possible, to my plan, so as to economize both tuel, material, and hands. I then propose that the food should be distributed by carts to the surrounding villages, by a party appointed for that purpose, thereby saving the expense of sepa- rate establishments, and the chance of bad food, from ignorance in its manufacture: it will also prevent the distribution of raw meal, or raw food, which, at the present moment, is in many cases abused; besides, from the want of knowledge in its pre- paration, causes disease, and does more harm than good. To illustrate my ideas, I will select one district in the county of Mayo, with the town of Scarriff as the centre of a district of sixty miles in circumference, and under the direction of one of the most able agents of government that I have had the honour of meeting since my stay in Dublin, Major Fitzgerald. There, until latterly, raw Indian meal only was distributed, although other provisions might be obtained; but the difficulty of teaching the inhabitants to cook them, prevent their intro- duction; in most cases they have to come a distance of from five to six Irish miles to fetch their small quantity of food, and in many cases, when they receive it, eat it raw on the spot. Their coming so far must, of necessity, prevent them attending to their work, and thereby increases the pauperism, instead of diminishing it. In that district the Union-house should be the central point of distribution; from thence should depart every morning, in time for the mid-day meal, the food for the sur- rounding villages, which should not only be given to the desti- tute, but to keep up the spirit of independence in the people, be sold at cost price. On the return of the party with the cart.