SECOND COURSE. 359 823. DEMI-PLUM PUDDING —Prepare the mould, then add a layer of plum pudding, broken in pieces, that has been left from the previous day, altc -nately, till full, fill up with custard, and steam or bake for thirty minutes. The remains of any kind of pudding may be used thus. 824. TRIFLE PUDDING.—Prepare the mould and fill with the same ingredients as directed for trifle, taking care that the wine, &c., is well soaked in before adding the custard. Steam or bake thirty minutes. The sides and tops of these puddings may be ornamented with cut angelica, hops, or candied orange or lemon peel, in any fanciful design you please, and they may be served with any kind of wine sauce. 82o. C ARROT PUDDING.—Mix in a bowl half a pound of flour, half a pound of chopped suet, three quarters of a pound of grated carrot, a quarter of a pound of raisins stoned, a quarter of a pound of currants, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, brown or sifted white; place these in a mould or dish, beat up two whole eggs, the yolks of four in a gill of milk, grate a little nut- meg in it, and add it to the former; bake or steam forty-five minutes. 826. COLLEGE PUDDING, or DUMPLING.—Take two handfuls of bread-crumbs, half a pound of currants, half a pound of beef marrow, or suet, chopped fine, three whole eggs, a little n utmeg and sad, moisten with-a little milk and brandy, then roll them up in the shape of an egg, in eggs and bread-crumbs, fry em m clarified fat, serve them on a napkin with wine sauce in a boat. If required in moulds, dilute the mixture with a little more milk, and steam them thirty minutes. 827. BROWN BREAD PUDDING.-Brown bread cut in slices and baked in the oven until crisp, then powder it, pass it through a sieve, and soak it with two spoonfuls of rum and brandy; then make a mixture well worked with six yolks of eggs> then add the bread the same as flour, and the whites well whipped, seasoned with a small quantity of cinnamon and cloves pounded, and citron cut in slices. The mould well buttered, and bread-crumbed, and baked or steamed for one hour. For the sauce, a little port-wine, currants, almonds, and citrons cut in slices. 828. BROWN BREAD PUDDING ANOTHER WAY •lake two ounces of pounded almonds, mix it with seven yolks