139 PISII. 246. WHITING AU GRATIN.—Put a good spoonful of chopped onions upon a strong earthen dish, with a glass of wine, season the whiting with a little pepper and salt,, put it in the dish, sprinkle some chopped parsley and chopped mushrooms over, and pour over half a pint of anchovy sauce, over which sprinkle some brown bread- crumbs, grated from the crust of bread, place it in a warm oven half an hour; it requires, to be nicely browned; serve upon the dish you have cooked it in. Whiting Pollock, or Glassen.—This is a very tine fisli, when in season, re- sembling in flavour the rook cod, feeding like that, amongst rocks ; the best are those about eight to ten pounds, they should be chosen, prepared, and cooked like cod. Black Pollock, Raw Pollock, or Coal Fish.—In shape like the former, but different in colour, as its name implies ; it should be prepared the same as the former. • Pollard.—These are the young of the former, and may be caught in great abundance with a crooked pin and a small piece of any kind of fish ; they are from five to eight inches in length j they should be cooked like whiting ; the flavour is stronger. Whiting This fish is caught on many parts of the coast, but is little esteemed, yet, in my opinion, is quite equal to the red mullet; it rarely ex- ceeds twelve inches in length, but is of great depth in the body; it is best when taken in rocky places, and should be eaten very fresh; it may be dressed in every way like whiting. Red Mullet, or Swr Mullet, is an inhabitant of the Mediterranean more than of the coasts of Great Britain, although it is caught at times in all parts. It is still held in the same high estimation as in the times of Juvenal and Horace,* and is justly called the woodcock of the sea ; they are in season, like other fish, when the roe is just forming. There is a species of this fish of a reddish brown, sometimes called the striped mullet; the flesh is firmer, but * When I say held, I do not mean we pay so high a price; for Apius Celer paid 6000 sesterces (equal to £46 17s. Gd. of our money) for one • and in the time of Tiberius, three were sold for 30,000 sesterces, or £234 7s Gd