■87 WATER. Good potable water ought to contain to ^ part of its volume of atmospheric air; of this, one is atmospheric air, and the rest carbonic acid gas, and the specific gravity is from 1,00016 to 1,00030; when the solid contents exceed this, the water is what is termed hard, and is less fitted for cookery, and dissolving of soap or other domestic purposes. The solid con- tents in five quarts of water, or 101bs., ought not to exceed 9'65 grs., and in the following proportions :— Carbonate of lime . . Muriate of soda . . Silica Muriate of lime . . Sulphate of potassa . Carbonate of soda . . 5'5 grains. 2-25 5 5 99 99 99 25 99 2 99 with four cubic inches of carbonic acid gas, and two of oxygen gas. It may also contain a little sulphate of lime. Many towns have their favourite teas—that is, what is admired in one is disapproved in another; this results solely from the water with which it is made. Having latterly been employed upon several experiments with this useful element for the Sanatory Commission, and which experiments I am now carrying out with water from various parts of England, I have been exceed- ingly surprised at the results of these experiments, and upon the difference which exists m the waters of this metropolis, resulting from the nature of the soil through which the water percolates, or from the source whence supplied ; but as this is not the place to give the particulars of those expe- riments, I shall merely state that the general result was, that I found there existed a difference between hard and soft water, to the extent of nearly one- thwd, ,n making of tea, or as 41b. of tea is to 61b. ; and in vegetables of all kinds a difference perfectly astonishing, more particularly in roots, and none perhaps, more than in the potato ; the difference was even perceptible in the cutting of it, and the flavour of the water, as well as its hardness was absorbed by that root. In herbs, the aroma and flavour cannot be extracted, even when adding soda to the water, which seems to make it only ■artificial.; and green vegetables lose not only their colour, but their flavour om being boiled in hard water, and soda, when added, destroys their extract tl P“ a ^ aS hard water not ic juices ©r gravy, but causes it to enter and bind the gelatinous