ENTREES. 271 536. * VEAL KIDNEY PUDDING.—Make the paste the same as for No. 533, using veal suet, line the basin with the paste, and then place a layer of slices of ham, then of veal kidney, and thus alternately until full, season with salt, pepper, and cover over with paste, and boil like the other puddings. 537. PORK PUDDING.—Line a pudding-basin with paste as before, and spread three-quarters of a pound of sausage-meat of an equal thickness over the interior, have a pound and a half of lean pork, from the leg if possible, cut into square pieces of the size of walnuts, which season rather highly with pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots, and half that quantity of dried sage; put the meat into the centre of the pudding, cover over with a quarter of a pound more sausage-meat, over which put on the cover of paste, tie it in a cloth, and boil two hours and a half, as directed for beefsteak pudding. 533. KIDNEY PUDDING.—Procure one os or eight mutton kidneys, which cut into slices the thickness of half-a- crown piece; lay them upon a dish, seasoning well with black pepper and salt, and shaking one ounce of flour over, mix all well together, to absorb the flour and seasoning; then have a pudding-basin, lined as directed for beefsteak pudding, finish, boil, and serve as there directed. A pudding made with one pound of steak and a beef kidney is also very excellent. 539. RABBIT PUDDING.—Cut a rabbit up in joints, (splitting the head in halves,) and lay them in a basin cf luke- warm water an hour to disgorge; line a pudding-basin with paste as directed for rumpsteak pudding, dry the pieces of rabbit upon a cloth, and lay them in the pudding with half a pound of streaked bacon cut into square pieces, and seasoning rather highly with chopped eschalots, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley; cover, tie it in a cloth, boil it two hours, and serve as before directed. 540. SUET PUDDING.—Put a pound of sifted flour in a basin, with half a pound of beef suet finely chopped, add two eggs with a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pint of water, beat well together with a wooden spoon, making a rather thick batter, flour a pudding-cloth, which lay in a small round-bottomed basin, pour in the mixture, tie the cloth tightly, and put the pudding m to boil, with a joint of salt beef, if you have one, to serve the