358 PUDDINGS IN MOULDS. We hurre already, in the Comforts for Invalids, given several of the most simple receipts. I prefer using, in these kinds of puddings, as the principal ingredient, stale Savoy cake, or sponge cakes, or ladies’ fingers, and, if I cannot get them, crumbs of stale bread; they may be made in a hundred different ways, according to the fancy and taste of the cook; the mould should be buttered and papered; they may be either baked or steamed. There is hardly any of our sex, from childhood to old age, but loves this truly English mixture, which appears upon our tables in a hundred different shapes, but always under the same name ; and I should not fancy my labours complete if I did not produce a new one of my own invention; I therefore beg you to accept the dedication, as I intend to call it— 820. PUDDING A LA ELOISE.—It is made as follows : Take half a pound of bread-crumbs, which put in a basin, with two ounces of sago, six ounces of chopped suet, six eggs, five ounces of moist sugar, and a tablespoonful of either orange, lemon, or apricot marmalade; mix all well together, and orna- ment the bottom of the mould with green angelica in syrup, and Smyrna raisins, and fill up with the mixture. Place the mould in a stewpan containing water to half the height of the mould, and boil gently for two hours; remove it from the mould, and serve with a sauce made of a tablespoonful of either of the marmalades, or of currant or apple jelly and two glasses of sherry poured over. This, I assure you, received great praise from the little party of juveniles that I had the other day. 821. PUDDING A LA HEINE.—Butter and paper the mould, fill up with cake or bread-crumbs, when full pour some custard in until it will hold no more; this may be flavoured with any white liquor or essence you please, for instance, citron (then it is called Pudding a la Heine au Citron) or orange; use peel thinly sliced, and so on for any flavour you may give it. Steam or bake for thirty minutes. 822. MINCE-MEAT PUDDING.—Butter and paper the mould, then put a layer of cake and a layer of mince-meat alter- nately, till full, then add the custard. Bake for thirty-five minutes.