294 SECOND COURSE. London from Holland about Christmas ; the flesh of this bird is superior to that of the common wild duck, the wing can be eaten with the breast; Tufted Duck, or Blue-billed Curries and Dowers (le petit Morillon) : there are other birds of this species, but not fit to be eaten, as the Black Duck or Scoter (la Macreuse) ; Burrough Duck or Sheldrake (le Tadorne); the young ones may be eaten; Eider Duck, St. Cutlibert’s, or Great Black and White Duck (l’Eider); Long-tailed Duck or Swallow-tailed Sheldrake (Canard de Miclon) ; Velvet Duck, Great Black Duck or Double Scoter (le grande Macreuse). 621. WIDGEON, WHEWER, OR WHIM {le Canard Siffleur).—These should be eaten fresher than a wild duck, trussed, dressed, and served the same; fifteen minutes is suffi- cient before a good fire. 622. DUNBIRD, POCHARD, OR GREAT-HEADED WIDGEON {Penelope, le Millouin). — In some parts Red Heads, Parkers, or Half Birds. These are dressed as above, but not so good as the Widgeon. 623. TEAL {la petite Sarcelle).—This is a delicious bird when fat. which they generally are after a frost. They must be trussed with care like ducklings: they will take about eight minutes to roast; serve with gravy, water-cresses, and lemon, separate, about six on a dish; or with sauces Nos. 146, 148. 624. GARGANEY {la Sarcelle).—'These are called Summer Teal, resemble it in shape, and are dressed the same way. 625. PLOVER.—Of these there are several sorts, all of which are good to eat at certain seasons. They are, the Great Plover, or Norfolk Plover, or Thick-kneed Bustard, or Stone Curlew (le grand Pluvier). The young of these are the best eating in September.—Bastard Plover, or Lapwing, or Peewit (le Vanneau). This one we get the eggs from ; they are good in the winter. We get them from the South Downs, but they are much finer in Prance, where there is a proverb—" Qui n’a pas mange de vanneau, ne sait pas ce que gibier vaut.”—Golden Plover (le Pluvier dore) ; Gray Plover (le Vanneau Pluvier); Dotterel (le Guignard); Ring Dotterel, Ring Plover, or Sea Lark (le petit Pluvier a collier); Long-legged Plover or Longshanks, or Sanderling (l'Echasse). The Golden and Large Dotterel are the best to eat. They should be well kept, but not too long, trussed gently, but not drawn, and put on a skewer, place them a little distance from a sharp fire, with a bit of toast under to catch the trail, baste with a little good butter, ten minutes is sufficient; dress them with toast under, and serve with gravy separate.. They may also be served barded with vine leaves and very thin bacon.