171 REMOVES. prove to be the case if tried once or twee. In the entrees will be found how the remains of these removes may be dressed. Since the science of analytical chemistry has become so perfect, and has shown us the elements of which every substance and liquid is composed, it is necessary that, in order to continue them in a state of action, and prevent decomposition, to repair the loss which they are every moment undergoing- from man, through every living thing, even down to earth and water; but I am not going to write you a lecture on chemistry, which will be so much more easy to read in Liebig. In order for you to choose your meat and viands with economy in regard to actual nourishment, I must tell you, that, from infancy to old age, the human race is continually imbibing elements of formation or reparation, from the lime in the mother’s milk, which forms the bones, to the osmazome, extracted from animal matters, which creates a more lively circulation of the blood when it becomes sluggish and dull in old age. Each period, occupation, and station in life requires different substances of reparation, with which we ought to make ourselves intimately acquainted. Amongst the first, and that most generally in use with man, is the ox, the principal nourishment derived from which consists in the osmazome, and is that liquid part of the meat that is extracted by water at blood-heat. It is this which is the foundation and flavour of all soups, which gives the flavour to all meats, and which, on becoming candied by heat, forms the crust of roast meats. The osmazome is found principally in all adult animals having a dark flesh, and to a very small extent in those having a white flesh, such as the esh of fowls; but it is in their back and legs where lies the principal flavour. . The bones of the ox contain gelatine and phosphate of lime. The gelatine is also found in the muscles and other cartilaginous parts of animals, t is extracted by boiling water, and coagulates at the ordinaiy temperature of the atmosphere ; it is the foundation of all jellies, blancmanges, and other similar preparations. . Th® ALBUMEN is aIs0 found in the flesh, and congeals as soon as the heat blw that of the bl00d; this is the scum on the pot when tlie meat is W i °Xen Sh°Uld fa3t fr°m twenty-four t0 forty-eight hours before being killed; when killed and skinned, they are opened and the inside c eaned they are then hung up, and ought to be exposed to a draught until cold, and then divided down the back into two parts, leaving the head