160 fish. 2/0. GUDGEONS are floured, egged, bread-crumbed, or simply floured, and fried as directed for smelts; but being smaller, they require less time to cook. The Bull s Head, or Miller's Thumb, should also be cooked in the same way. In mentioning this fish, it reminds me that there is a sea-fish very much like it, and often sold in the market; on the coast, it is the goby, sometimes called the black and spotted goby. It should be cooked like eels. Char.—This is a very delicious fresh-water fish when obtained fresh, which is exceedingly rare in London. The lakes of Westmoreland and Cumberland boast of having the finest, but I have tasted very fine from those in Wales. The red char has the finest flavour. It should be dressed like trout. Chub I do not think much of, but it no doubt depends on the river where taken; those caught in the winter are the best. They may be cooked like carp. Dace and Roach I esteem about as much as the chub ; but if you have them they are best cooked like the carp, sauce matelote. Barbel should never be eaten ; I have known several very ill effects from so doing, although it is generally supposed it is the roe alone which is noxious and bad ; but should some follower of Isaak Walton be inclined to partake of the produce of his own sport, then it should be well cleansed and put to soak in a good marinade for twenty-four hours, and baked like carp. The Ed is greatly esteemed in all countries, but it differs in taste accord- ing to the river from whence it is taken ; although we have some very fine eels in the river Thames, yet our principal supply is received from Holland, and the fish which come from thence are much improved in flavour by the voyage, and even increase in size. They arrive in the river Thames in vessels called eel scootes (schuyts), of which four have been allowed, for centuries, to moor opposite the Custom House, and the others are obliged to remain in Erith Hole until there is room for them, which greatly improves the fish : the value of those imported into London last year amounted to 132,600L Nothing is more difficult to kill than eels; and it is only by knocking the heads upon a block or hard substance, and stunning them, that they suffer least. Take the head in your hand with a cloth, and just tut through the skin round the neck, which turn down about an inch ; then null the head with one hand, and the skin with the other, it will come off