224 ENTREES. pickle, let it boil up, and serve; cr place it by the side of the lire until wanted. A few mushrooms put in it is an improve- ment, or a tablespoonful of walnut catsup. 406. MIROTON OF BEEF.—Peel and cut into thin slices two large onions, put them in a stewpan or saucepan, with two ounces of salt butter, place it over a slow fire, keeping the onions stirred round with a wooden spoon until rather brown, but not burnt in the least, then add a teaspoonful of flour, which mix well in and moisten with half a pint of water or broth if handy,, season with three saltspoonfuls of salt, two of sugar, and one of pepper if water has been used, but if broth, diminish the quan- tity of salt, add a little colouring (No. 187), to improve its ap- pearance; put in the beef, which you have previously cut into small thin slices, as free from fat as possible, let it remain a few minutes upon the fire to simmer, and serve upon a hot dish. To vary the flavour, a tablespoonful of vinegar might be added or half a glass of sherry. The above proportions are sufficient for one pound and a half of solid meat, and of course should be increased or diminished accordingly. 407. ANOTHER WAY.—Prepare the meat precisely as in the last, and when done put it into a pie-dish, sprinkle bread- crumbs lightly over, enough to cover the meat, upon which lay a small piece of butter, put the dish in the oven for half an hour, or before the fire, with a screen behind it, turning the dish round occasionally. By grating the crust of bread you would obtain some brown bread-crumbs, which would do equally as well as bread rubbed through a sieve. Should you have any cold from the first receipt, it may be served as here directed ; but being cold, would require to be longer in the oven to become well hot through. 408. ANOTHER WAY.—If any left from a previous dinner, put it in a dish, placing the meat in the centre, rather hi "her, cover over with some delicate mashed potatoes, about tw°o inches in thickness, to form a dome, rub some egg over with a paste-brush, and sprinkle crumbs of bread (either grated or otherwise) upon the top, and set in the oven until well browned, wffien serve. 409. A QUICKER WAY.—Cook a few slices of lean bacon in a frying-pan, but not too much, lay some of them in the