VEGETABLES. sso mixed with a little butter, stir in, boil, and serve on toast;—or pioceed as above, adding a gill of demi-glaze. They can be served with any entrees when properly done, and in all cases can be used instead of mushrooms. / 24. TO COOK SOURCROUT.—Put a quart of sourcrout, with a fat piece of bacon or pork, into an earthen pan, with suf- ficient water to cover it, stew for four or five hours, and serve with pork or fried sausages; it is better the second day. It may be procured in any good oil-sho}) in the winter. 725. SOURCROUT, BAVARIAN WAY.—Well wash one quart of sourcrout, and put it into an earthen pan, with a quarter of a bottle of Rhenish wine or any other light wine, and stew it for three hours, then add some veal gravy, well seasoned, and stew for three hours longer, and serve with sausages, or when you add the veal stock, put in a duck or a goose, and serve with it. 726. LAVER is a marine plant (the Ulvce Lactuca), which we obtain potted, in London, from the West of England; in Dublin, from Malahide; Edinburgh, from Aberdeen. It is merely washed, boiled, pulped, and potted by the fishermen’s wives. It is considered wholesome, but I see nothing par- ticular in it that can make it so unless it is the small quantity of iodine that it contains. It should be dressed like spinach (No. 716), and sent up very hot in a dish over a spirit-lamp, and is generally served with mutton. The following is a new plan I have introduced for cooking it, which has been liked by those persons who formerly disliked it: Have some mashed potatoes as No. 733, roll it out the thick- ness of a quarter of an inch, cover it with some cold stewed laver nicely seasoned, put another layer of mashed potatoes over, and allow it to get quite cold, when cut it in square pieces, egg, bread-crumb, and proceed as for ramifolles. 727. GREENS, CABBAGES, SAVOYS, should be boiled in plenty of water in which a little soda and salt has been added. Greens should be boiled whole, the cabbages cut in four pieces, the savoys in two, drain well and dish up. 728. GREENS, CABBAGES, AND SAVOYS, Stewed.— When these are boiled as above, drain them, place them on a platter, and chop up fine, put into a stewpan and season with salt, pepper, and sugar; a piece of butter, and a gill of gravy, if handy, if not a little milk; stew gently for half an hour. (For Cabbage and Bacon, see Stewed Partridge.)