490 soyer’s charitable COOKERYL Twelve pounds of solid meat, *t-<UL-peiUb., cut into pieces one inch square, or sixteen pounds, with bones -a%-3dv~perTb. Three pounds two ounces of dripping Twelve pounds of onions, sliced thin .. ] Six pounds of leeks, ditto Six pounds of celery, ditto Eight pounds of turnips, washed only, and cut into dice half an inch square Thirty-seven pounds and a half of flour, seconds twenty-five pounds of pearl barley previously soaked Nine pounds of salt One pound seven ounces of sugar £118 Have ready a spatula, or a piece of board the shape of a cricket- bat, about six inches wide, tapering towards the top as a handle, (which must be from one foot and a half to two feet above the surface of the vessel), to stir with; take twelve pounds of solid meat, or sixteen pounds with the bones, (legs or clods of beef are excellent ior the purpose, but any kind of edible meat from beef to doe venison will do), cut in pieces about one inch square; put the dripping* in the boiler—light the fire—when the fat is melted, add the onions: fry ten minutes, stirring it all the time; add the vegetables and the meat: fry for twenty minutes, or until a thick glaze is produced; then add the salt and sugar, and four gallons of cold water; then add the flour; keep stirring quickly until quite smooth; add the barley, and fill by degrees with hot water;')' boil for three hours, or until the barley is quite tender, and serve. | In case either the barley or rice does not produce the thick- ness required, (as those ingredients may differ in quality), then add, if too thin, a few pounds of flour or oatmeal, previously mixed with cold water, to make it in a liquid batter, and pour it in when boiling about twenty minutes before serving it out. But the proper thickness is easily ascertained when the soup hangs lightly on the back of the spatula or ladle and near the consistence of a thin stirabout. * If dripping cannot be had, use four pounds of fat.—See Receipt No. 21. t Hot water is the best to use if convenient. J If colour is required, add a quart of Receipt No. 21. 4 0 1 0 0 8 3 1 7 <i 0 0