OPINIONS OP THE PRESS. The following are a few extracts from some of the Public Journals that have reviewed this work: Chronicle.—"M. Soyer, in tlie exercise ofliis approved philanthropy, has published an Opusculum called The Modern Housewife, or Menagere, which, if we rightly understand its object, is intended for the practical service of all families whose means range between positive poverty and positive affluence. But vain would be all our endeavours to convey to our readers an adequate notion of this great Compendium of Cookery. There is but one thing to be done. All who have food to cook must buy the book.” Morning' Herald.—“ The far-famed Soyer has achieved a fresh triumph in the production of this work, which is undoubtedly the best and most complete manual of household cookery ever offered to the British public.” Advertiser.—“He seeks to produce good English fare into every dwelling, and plenty of it. He is a right worthy Master of the Mint; for all his advice and recommendations have the thriftiest, yet most satisfactory tendency.” Daily Hews.—"We know of nothing of the kind even in France, where between the vulgar Cuisinier Bourgeois and the oxalted Ouidnier Boyal there is no good, and domestic, and economic guide. In this M. Soyer will be a good medical, as well as culinary guide.” Sun.—" The receipts are all written in plain and understandable lan- guage, and M. Soyer’s ‘ Housewife ’ is indeed and in truth The Cookery Book for the Million. The ‘ Magic Stove ’ is a perfect wonder of invention. By its means the breakfast may be cooked upon the breakfast table itself All who wish to enjoy a cutlet in perfection should cook it themselves by the magic stove.” Globe.—" M. Soyer, the renowned chef de cuisine at the Reform Club, and himself the most eminent of Reformers in the gastronomic art, has just added to his public services.” Spectator.—" The ‘Modern Housewife’ is the most dramatic of cookery-books; carried on by dialogue, correspondence, and a certain artful arrangement by which two-thirds of an epic—‘ action’—is introduced into the didactic work.”