FISH. 144 no means wash them. Cut three slight incisions in the side of each, and lay them in a baking-dish. Scrape half a clove of garlic, chop up two tablespoonfuls of parsley, or half parsley and half tarragon ; mix it well with the garlic, so that it imbibes it all, then add to it two table- spoonfuls of mustard—French, if you have it—and spread it over the herrings; place about one ounce of butter in the baking-dish, and one wineglassful of red wine, place in a hot oven for twenty minutes, turn over when half done, then add bread-crumbs, if preferred, “ Gratine,” or if not, when done, pour out the liquid that is in the dish into a saucepan, add a little melted butter, boil up, and serve separate. Pilchards.—If anything were required as a proof to upset the absurd notion of the migration of the herring from the Northern Ocean, this fish would do so ; but this is a subject we will leave for another occasion. This is a very fine fish when taken, as it ought only to be, when the roe is just forming; they are principally found on the Cornish and the south-western coast of Ireland. They should be cooked and cured in the same way as herrings. Anchovies and Sardines are now found on the coast in the same places as the pilchard, of which they are a species; we never receive them fresh in the London market, but we cannot say what another year’s enterprise, energy, and railroads may do. They should be cooked like herrings. Capeling is a fish about the length of a pilchard, in form like the ling; they are only to be found on the banks of Newfoundland, where they are caught as plentifully as the herring on our shores. They are salted and dried, and imported into this country. To cook them, they should be broiled as dry as possible. Sprats.—These are in season all the year on various parts of the coast; they swim in large shoals or sculls, and may be caught in baskets; large quantities are brought to the London market, where they are sold from 2.?. to 4s. per bushel; they are in season there after the 9th of November ; they should be cooked very fresh, which is easily known by the eyes being bright and sparkling; a tin skewer should be run through the gills of about twenty,