362 BAKED PUDDINGS. 836. CUSTARD PUDDING.—Make a border of paste on the dish, and fill up with custard, grate a little nutmeg on the top. Any kind of fruit puddings with custard may be made in the same way, by placing them in the custard, and sift some finely- powdered sugar over, before going to the baker’s. 837. FRUIT PUDDINGS are best made in a basin, the basin to be buttered and lined with the paste, and then filled with the fruit, which cover with the paste; the paste should be rolled round to the thickness of half an inch, and when the Iruit is in, drawn to the centre, and squeezed, and then tied up in a cloth kept on purpose, and boiled in plenty of water; wrhen done, which will be according to the nature of the fruit you put in it, serve it either turned out of the basin or not. The cover should be of the same thickness as the sides. Sugar should be added before being covered. 838. COCOA-NUT PUDDING.—Remove the shell of the cocoa-nut and cut the brown skin awny, cut the nut in pieces and place it in cold water, remove it and wipe it dry, grate about a quarter of a pound of a large one, very fine, into a plate. Place in a basin a quarter of a pound of powdered white sugar, and three ounces and a half of fresh butter, stir them together until it becomes like cream; add to it a tablespoonful of brandy, and about four drops of either essence of vanille, or any other essence whose flavour may be preferred. Place the white of six eggs into a bowl, and beat them well up; then add gradually the butter and sugar, which keep stirring at the same time; add by degrees the cocoa-nut. Cover a pie-dish with puft paste, place the mixture in it, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Glaze it with powdered sugar and powdered cinnamon mixed. 839. APPLES should be pared, cored, and cut in quarters, and put in with some sugar, a few cloves, and a bit of lemon- peel. 840. WALL FRUIT—as Peaches, Nectarines, Apricots, and Plums,—should be cut in half, and the kernels extracted liom the stones and added, a little cream, according to the size of the pudding, in which a little grated cinnamon is added, may be put in at the same time as the fruit; use but little sugar.