SECOND COURSE 3C\ serve very hot; they are excellent to ’serve with chop, steak, or any joint. 736. IRISH WAY OF BOILING.—In Ireland, where this root has been for so long a period the chief nourishment of the people, and where it takes the place of bread and other more substantial food, it is cooked so that it may have, as they call it, a bone in it; that is, that the middle of it should not be quite cooked. They are done thus:—Put a gallon of water with two ounces of salt, in a large iron pot, boil for about ten minutes, or until the skin is loose, pour the water out of the pot, put a dry cloth on the top of the potatoes, and place it on the side of the fire without water for about twenty minutes, and serve. In Ireland turf is the principal article of fuel, which is burnt on the flat hearth; a little of it is generally scraped up round the pot, so as to keep a gradual heat; by this plan the potato is both boiled and baked. Even in those families where such a common art of civilized life as cooking ought to have made some pro- gress, the only improvement they have upon this plan is, that they leave the potatoes in the dry pot longer, by which they lose the bone. They are always served up with the skins on, and a small plate is placed by the side of each guest. 737. TOIED MASHED POTATOES IN VARIOUS SHAPES. Roast twelve fine potatoes; when done, take out the interior, which form into a ball; when cold, put them into a mortar, with a piece of butter half the size of the ball; pound them well together, season with a little salt, pepper, chopped eschalots, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg, mix them with the yolks of six, and two whole eggs; then form them into croquettes about the size and shape of a small egg, and bread- crumb them twice over, and fry them to a light brown colour in a stewpan of hot lard, and serve as garniture where required. 738. TO BLANCH MACARONI—Have half a gallon of water in a stewpan, in which put two ounces of butter and an ounce of salt; when boiling, throw in a pound of macaroni, which boil until tender, being careful that it is not too much done; the time of boiling depends principally upon the quality, the Cenoa macaroni taking the longest time, and the Neapolitan .he shortest, which last, if too much done, will fall in purde. 739. MACARONI, ITALIAN WAY.—Boil half a pound Ol macaroni as above; when done, lay it on a sieve to dry for