FISH. 155 round and put in a baking-dish, spread a little butter all over, put in a moderate oven, when about half done egg over with a paste-brush, and sprinkle bread-crumbs upon it; a middling-sized pike will take about an hour, but that according to the size and the heat of the oven ; when done, dress upon a dish without a napkin, and sauce round as directed for baked haddock above referred to. 270. PIKE, SAUCE MATELOTE. — Cook a pike exactly as in the last, dress it upon a dish without a napkin, and sauce with a matelote sauce over, made as directed for salmon sauce matelote. This fish may also be served with caper sauce, as directed for the skate; the smaller ones are the best; the remains of a pike placed in the oven the next day, with a cover over it and a little more sauce added, are very nice. Carp became naturalized in this country in 1514, since which time the breed has considerably increased ; they might be made of more value if proper attention were paid to them. Choose them of a middling size, with a soft roe, if possible; the scales of a yellowish colour near the belly; the eyes bright; the gills very red, and hard to pull out; should a liard-roed one be preferred, do not choose it too full. In cleaning, take off the scales as in the last; then make a small incision in the belly, close to the bladder; puli out the gills, and the interior will come with them; should any, however, re- main, take it out of the incision without breaking the gall or disturbing the Toe : lay it in spring water half an hour to disgorge, then dry it with a cloth. The large sea carp, some of which weigh from thirty to fifty pounds, are not worth cooking. 251. BAKED CARP.—Procure a good-sized carp, stuff it like the pike, then put it into a baking-dish, with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, one head of celery, and a good bouquet of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; moisten with two glasses of port wine, half-a-pint of water, salt, pepper, and oil, and put it in a moderate oven about two hours to bake; try if done with a knife, which is the case