CONDIMENTS. 80 CELERY, which is now grown to such perfection in England, is the cul- tivated wild plant known as smallage. Celery is a great deal used in cookery, but it should not be subjected to too long boiling ; if its flavour is- required, and no root to be obtained, the seed of the Smallage can be used instead. It is generally supposed that the roots and leaves of smallage are poisonous ; we would not recommend them to be used, as the seed can always be obtained, and the flavour is finer. The salts of celery is a modern improvement, and a great addition to our culinary condiments. BORAGE is not much used in cookery ; its flavour is slightly bitter, and is sometimes used to flavour ale, cyder, &c., for a summer drink. HORSE-RADISH is the root of a plant, a native of this country; the aroma which it contains is quickly dissipated by heat—it is therefore used in a raw state by being grated ; an essence may be obtained by infusion with spirits of wine, and which, added to mustard after it i3 made, gives it an agreeable flavour. CHERVIL is getting more into use every day ; its flavour is exceedingly pleasant, and can be employed in soups and salads, especially in made dishes, with the greatest advantage. CAPERS are the buds of a small trailing shrub, a native of the South of Europe ; they are sent to this country in barrels, with salt or vinegar ; those grown on the Rock of Gibraltar are considered the finest in the world. They are very excellent with almost all boiled meats, fish, and salads. BROOM BUDS, when pickled, in some parts replace capers. NASTURTIUMS are sometimes used in the place of capers, being pickled in the same way, but they have not the least resemblance ; they may be used for salads/ The flower of the nasturtium is a very pretty decoration for boiled fish and salads. BARBERRIES is the fruit of a plant, a native of this country; some centuries since, they appear to have been often used in this country, but more modern importations have superseded them ; they have a very acid flavour, and, if pickled, could enter into the composition of many dishes, and also make a good preserve. GHERKINS are the young cucumber, or often the fruit of the uncultivated plant; they are almost always pickled, and are an elegant addition to all salads and many entrees.