238 ENTREES. 444. CALF’S LIVER DRY.—The same may be served dry with the bacon, or with any sharp sauce. 44.5. STEWED CALF’S LIVER.—Choose a nice fat one rather white in colour, lard it through with bacon, put one quarter of a pound of butter in a pan, when melted, add a table- spoonful of flour, keep stirring until a nice yellow colour, then put in the whole of the liver, turn round now and then until it is a little firm, then add a pint of broth or water, and a glass of anj' kind of wine, a bouquet of parsley, thyme, bay leaves, a little salt, pepper, and sugar, thirty button onions, simmer one hour; take the fat off and the bouquet out, dish the liver with the onions around it, reduce the sauce, so that it adheres lightly to the back of the spoon, sauce over and serve. Any vegetables may be used, as carrots, turnips, peas, haricots; and if a little gelatine or isinglass is added to the sauce, and the liver with the sauce only put into a round basin and pressed down and left until cold, it will make a nice dish for supper, lunch or breakfast. If required to be rewarmed, cut into slices, put it in the pan with a drop of water added to the gravy. 446. CALF’S HEART ROASTED.—Proceed exactly the same as for ox’s heart, only this being more delicate and smaller, requires less time to roast, from half an hour to one hour, depending on the size; it may also be cut in slices, and sauteed like the liver above; or, by having four for a large dish, they may be dressed exactly like the liver No. 443, but white instead of brown; stuff them, and saute-white in butter, which depends on a slow fire, and, adding the flour, just give a few turns and add the broth immediately; season as described in the liver, stew very gently for one hour, take out the hearts, skim off the fat, let it be thickish, boil down a little if required, prepare two yolks of eggs well beaten, with a quarter of a gill of milk, broth, or water, which pour into the same, stir quickly for half a minute, add the juice of half a lemon, trim the hearts, dish them in a dish with the points upwards, pour the sauce over, and serve. 447. ROAST SWEETBREADS.—Take the sweetbreads and lay them in water at blood-heat, to disgorge, for three to four hours; then blanch them for two minutes in boiling water, put them into a stewpan with a few slices of carrot, onions, turnip, a little parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, six pepper-corns, a blade of mace, and a small piece of bacon, cover over with a