346 PASTRY. 7<8. CHEESECAKES. Under this head, in English Cookery Books, are a variety of Receipts, but, in fact, there is only one ; the others may all be denominated tartlets cf one kind or the other, and require but little skill on the part of the cook to vary in an innumerable number of ways. The following way to make them is in use in the farm houses in the midland ■counties; some which I have received from Stilton, and also from Tuxford, in Nottinghamshire, are excellent. Take four quarts of milk and turn it with some fresh rennet; when dry crumble it and sift it through a coarse sieve into a bowl, beat it well up with a quarter of a pound of butter until it is quite smooth (it may require a little more butter, depending on the quality of the milk); mix in another bowl the yolks of four eggs and a quarter of a pound of very fine sifted biscuit- powder, the rind of four lemons, the j uice of two, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, (some add a little grated nutmeg or cinnamon,) beat these all well up together until forming a stiff cream, then put it by degrees into the bowl with curd, and mix them well together; line some tartlet pans, previously buttered, with some paste (No. 746), and place some of the above mixture in, and bake quick. In some places milk is used instead of eggs. Should you not have rennet, procure some good milk and turn it with the juice of a lemon or a teaspoonful of soda or culinary alkali to a quart of milk; drain the curd, and proceed as before. 779. RICHMOND MAIDS OF HONOUR.—These delicious little cakes, which every inhabitant of London who pays a visit to the most picturesque part of its environs knows so well, derive their name from a period when cookery was not thought to be a degrading occupation for those honoured -with that title. It is stated that they originated with the maids of honour of Queen Elizabeth, who had a palace at Richmond. I have a little work now before me, called “The Queen’s Delight,” in which are several receipts invented by the wives of the first nobles of the land, which I think is an excellent example for those housewives who honour this book by their perusal, to imitate. They are made as follows:— Sift half a pound of dry curd, mix it well with six ounces of good butter, break the yolks of four eggs into another basin, and a glass of brandy; add to it six ounces of powdered lump-sugar, and beat well together one very floury baked potato cold, one ounce of sweet almonds, one ounce of bitter ditto pounded, the grated rind of three lemons, the juice of one, and half a nutmeg grated, mix these well together and add to the curds and butter; .stir well up, and proceed as before, filling the tartlet pans.