886 DESSERT. tity of very ripe apricots, each of which cut into four or six pieces, break the stones and blanch the kernels, put the apricots in a preserving-pan with a small quantity of water, boil them until quite tender, when pass them through a sieve; to every pound of fruit have three-quarters of a pound of sugar (in a preserving-pan) boiled to the sixth degree (No. 903), add the apricots with their kernels, and keep stirring over the fire until forming thin transparent sheets, try when done as in the last, and put away in pots. The marmalade would be still more transparent if you were to peel the apricots first, but then you would lose some of their delicious flavour. 917. MARMALADE OF CHERRIES.—Procure a sieve of bright Kentish cherries, pull out the stalks and stones, and put the fruit in a preserving-pan, place over the fire, keeping it stirred until reduced to two-thirds; have in another preserving- pan, to every pound of fruit, half a pound of sugar boiled to the sixth degree (No. 903), into which pour the fruit when boiling hot, let reduce, keep stirring until you can just see the bottom of the pan, when take it from the fire, and fill your jars as before. A plainer way is to take off the stalks, and stone the fruit, place them in a pan over a sharp fire, and to every pound of fruit add nearly a pound of sugar, keep stirring until reduced as above, and let it get partly cold in the pan before filling the jars. 918. STRAWBERRY JAM.—Pick twelve pounds of very red ripe strawberries, which put into a preserving-pan, with ten pounds of sugar (broken into smallish pieces), place over a sharp fire, keep continually stirring, boiling it until the surface is covered with clearish bubbles; try a little upon a cover; if it sets, fill the jars as before. 919. RASPBERRY JAM.—Pick twelve pounds of rasp- berries, and pass them through a fine sieve to extract the seeds, boil as many pounds of sugar as you had pounds of fruit to the sixth degree (No. 903), when add the pulp of the fruit, keep stirring over the fire, reducing it until you can just see the bottom of the pan, take it from the fire, and put it into jars as before. 920. JELLY OF APPLE.—Cut six dozen of sound rennet apples in quarters, take out all the pips, put them into a sugar- pan, just cover them with cold water, and place over the fire, let boil until the apples become quite pulpy, when drain them upon