THE NURSERY DINNER. 31 from it, for tlie use of children of three or four years old, being thought too heavy for infants. These long details may appear rather insignificant and tedious to you, but I leave them to your good judgment, begging of you to curtail my remarks should you think proper; but, although you may con- sider that every person is acquainted with these domestic habits, you would find upon inquiry that very many persons neglect them almost entirely. Having written thus much upon the food of infants, we must next consider the proper diet for children of twelve months old, commencing with bread and milk. - , 51. BREAD AND MILK.—Cut about two ounces of any white bread into small thin slices, and put them into- a small basin 01 a large breakfast cup, in a little saucepan (only used for that purpose) have half a pint of milk; when upon the point of boiling, pour over the bread; cover over the cup five minutes, and it is ready for use. I much prefer this method to that of boiling the bread and in ill.- together. In first commencing to feed a child upon the above, I always added a little sugar, which I withdrew by degrees, as I do not like to accustom children to too much sweets, as it inclines them when a little older to be always wanting or eatmg sweet stuff, which often spoils the best set of teeth; and here let me remark, that the finest fortmie you can give to your children is health, and as loving mothers, whilst we have them under our control, it is our duty to study their little comforts, and direct their first steps in fife in the road to happiness. 52. PORRIDGE.—When children are delicate, por- ridge is often preferable to bread and milk. Put two tablespoonfuls of Scotch grits or oatmeal in the milk saucepan, which moisten with half a pint of milk; let it boil ten minutes, keeping well stirred, add a small piece of butter and a little sugar, and it is ready for use. When my children were about eighteen months or two years old I used give them a little tender meat, such as boiled mutton, and broth, but in v«y smal quantities, keeping still for the general food the bread and milk bewZe26 d iT T th<3y ^ °ld 6n0Ugh t0 6at anjthin° wllolea°me (ono g ne and the other ten years of age), their meals are composed thus :