203 REMOVES. thickness, place it in your cradle spit so that it will turn quite even; place it at first very close to the fire, until the paste is well crusted, pouring a few ladlefuls of hot dripping over occasionally to prevent the paper catching fire; then put it rather further from the fire, which must be quite clear, solid, and have sufficient frontage to throw the same heat on every part of the venison. When it has roasted the above time, take it up, remove it from the paste and paper, run a thin skewer into the thickest part, to ascertain if done; if it resists the skewer, it is not done, and must be tied up and put down again ; but if the fire is good, that time will sufficiently cook it; glaze the top well, salamander until a little brown, put a frill upon the knuckle, and serve very hot, with strong gravy and plenty of French beans separate.* 377. NECK OF VENISON should be cut like a neck of mutton, taking the breast off, leaving the neck about nine inches wide; detach the flesh from the chine-bone, and saw it off, leaving only the cutlet-bones; then pass a lark spit through it, cover it with paste and paper, the same as the haunch, and fix on spit and roast, if about eight pounds, for two hours, before a good fire. When venison is plentiful M. Soyer has invented a new joint, called the saddle-back, which is the finest part of the deer, and would have been worthy of the piost distinguished position in the banquet of Anacreon. (See ' Gas- tronomic Regenerator.’) Fawns, when very young, are not good food ; but these should be treated in every way like hare, giving them a little more seasoning. They are, how- ever, better when a little larger, and divided inquarters, and dressed like lamb. Kid, if young, should be treated like rabbits, but if older, may be divided and prepared as lamb. Ihey are considered extremely nutritious, and the pure gravy, or ozmazome, from them is excellent for invalids. * A very handsome and convenient dish has latterly been invented bv Messrs Shaw and Fisher, of Edinburgh, for venison, by which the cravv coming from the joint can be served without the fat. & J