286 entrees. lunrl °f wine, anti one of vinegar, season high with pepper and salt, let simmer until tender, keeping well skimmed; when done, and^ the sauce becoming rather thick, dress upon your dish, and 5S9. JUGGED HARE (another way).—Put about half a pound of buTter, vvitla ten ounces of flour, into a stewpan; put it on the fire, and keep stirring it round until it has a yellow inge; then add a pound of bacon cut in square pieces, stir it a little longer on the fire; the hare having been previously cut up, put it into the stewpan and stir it about until it becomes hrm, when add four glasses of port wine and sufficient water to cover it; season, and add two bay-leaves, and four cloves, and, when half done, about fifty button onions, or ten large ones in slices, a tablespoonful of brown sugar, let it simmer until it is well done and the sauce rather thick; dress up, sauce over, and serve. If an old one, it will take about four hours; consequently, add water in proportion. EGGS. 5.90. PLAIN BAKED EGGS.—Butter with one ounce a plated or common tart-dish, that will bear the heat of the oven; break caiefully six eggs in it, season with one pinch of pepper, halt a spoonful ot salt, the juice of half a lemon, and add half an ounce of butter in small pieces over, put in a slack oven until set, and serve. 591. BAKED EGGS WITH ASPARAGUS.—Cut twenty heads of sprue into small pieces, keeping only the tender part; boil them for fifteen minutes, put them into a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, set them on the fire for three minutes, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar; when done, put them in the dish you intend to serve it in,"break six eggs over, which season as above, put it into the oven until it sets, and serve; in case the oven is not sufficiently hot, place a salamander over the eggs. 592. MASHED EGGS.—Break four eggs into a stewpan, with one ounce of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper; put it on the lire, stir continually, and as soon as delicately get, serve.