ENTREES. 237 441. FRICAIvDEAU BOURGEOISE, in its Gravy.—Cut as before from the fillet, cut the bacon the same as for the neck, and lard with about thirty large pieces, but in a slanting direc- tion, leaving but little of the bacon to be seen, as the object is to give all the advantage of the bacon to the meat; put it into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter; a quarter of an ounce of salt, and one-tenth of that of pepper; set it on the fire for five minutes, turn it with a fork round and round, then rake some cinders over the coals or charcoal so as to make it go slow, and until it becomes of a nice yellow colour; then add a gill of water, a bay leaf, half an onion, stew until quite tender, turning it over and over, now and then; put it on a dish, skim the fat off the gravy, pour it over, and serve. It may also be served thus: by throwing into the stewpan about twenty mushrooms, well washed about ten minutes before serving; if the gravy is too thin, add a little arrow-root, and serve: it can also be served with the sauces named in the former Receipt. Nothing is nicer cold than this; if required to be re-warmed, put it into a little broth or warm water, and heat slowly. 44w. CALF S LIVER SAUTE.—Cut it into slices, put a little butter in the saute, or frying-pan, when melted, lay the liver in, season with salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of chopped eschalot, parsley, and grated nutmeg, saute on a sharp fire- when rather brown on both sides dredge a little flour, add a tablespoonful of French vinegar, or a glass of wine, stir it well and boil for a few minutes; dish the liver in crpwns; if the sauce is too pale, add a little mushroom catsup or colouring and it had better be too thin than too thick; taste if well seasoned, and serve. The above is for about two pounds of liver 443. CALF S LIVER, English way.—Cut the liver into thin slices, dip them in flour, and put it in a saute or frying-pan m winch some slices of bacon have been previously cooked, with sufficient fat left in it; saute the liver until quite brown and ather crisp, when take out and place it upon a dish with the bacon then dredge a spoonful of flour in the pan, or enough to absorb all the fat in it, then add a little broth or water so as make it a thinnish sauce, season it, and add two spoonfuls of Harvev’s sauce or mushroom catsup. If the above is nicely done, and the pieces cut the size of cutlets, it will make a nice entree for an ordinary dinner. It should be served immediately, and very hot.