77 CONDIMENTS. MACE. This is the skin which covers the shell containing the nutmeg. It is cut into small pieces and dried. This is more often used in cookery than the nutmeg, as its essential oil and aromatic flavour is not so soon evaporated, but penetrate into the substances with which it may be em- ployed. Its qualities are somewhat similar to the nutmeg. The essence may be employed to advantage in cookery. CAYENNE is the dried pod of the well-known plant, the capsicum, now 80 often reared m hot-houses. It is, however, a native of the East and West Indies, and South America. It ought to be of a very pungent nature, and of a strongly acrid flavour. The best ought to be of an orange colour! There are several kinds of capsicums. Those known in this country are, the capsicum annum, or annual capsicum ; the capsicum grossum, or hell pepper; and the capsicum ccrasiformc, or cherry pepper. The pods of these are frequently pickled. The essence of cayenne, by infusing in spirit, is a veiw excellent plan of seasoning different kinds of dishes. CliNAMON is the under-bark of a tree, the Imrm cimammwm, a species of bay, with leaves like laurel, found in many East India Islands, nt chiefly m Ceylon. It possesses a very fl„e aromatic flavour and smelL When moderately used, is a very fin,, elegant addition to our culinaiy art. The essential oil, when extracted, 1, better to use than the hark itself. This tree bear, a fruit similar in shape to the acern, but smaller. It neither smell, nor tastes; b„, open boiling in water, yield, an oil which, „» be- coming co,d, .. a, hard a, ; it i, „sed as an ointment, and also to burn. C raid r"‘ yie“S caml>hire “d of samphire. CASSIA „ a ,0 a bark of a si„ii,r kind „f lr,e to ^ ^ 11 <loe* ”>* «““■> =0 much flavour a, cinnamon - but the cTsSrBroT8 " Ito “ “*“> of cinnamon. DUDS are the pods of the seed nf • , . 1 1 tue seea ot the cinnamon tree Thev contam an oil equal in flavour and pungency to the cinnamon. They are not 7 th6iC n0t b6ing *““»% ^own. 7 MLSTARD is the powder of the seed of the plant, the sinapis nigra. It • r m many PkCeS' and be culti-ted in almost any soil It is a strong pungent nature, and is difficult to concentrate. It should be I- 7th ^ «*■ I* derives its name from the Fiench rS."° liVe 5t fr°m the Latin ^rnultum ardet, which became coopted into «*. In France they prepare it in a variety of ^ no our province here to speak about them. That which is called