461 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 16. EXCELLENT SALAD IN HOT WEATHER.—Let me persuade you to try this salad, with either any haricots, lentils, or potatoes, you may have cold; put a pint of either in a salad-bowl, if potatoes, cut them in dice, put to them one table- spoonful ot onions chopped small, a little parsley, tarragon, or chervil, if at hand, a tablespoonful of vinegar and three of oil, toss well together and serve. 17. RECEIPTS FOR FISH.—Sea-fish are very dear here, and even fresh-water fish are scarce sometimes; however, I often obtain a piece of codfish, halibut, plaice, or a few flounders, soles very seldom; mackerel, herrings, and sprats, are tolerably plentiful. By way of fresh-water fish, small pike, eels, carp, and gudgeons. I have discovered no new way of dressing them than our original receipts, except the few methods I now send you. I beg to refer you to our article fish, from page 110 to 143. The only alteration, I am now obliged to economize a little with my butter and anchovy, and use only the most simple receipts. 18. MACKEREL PIE.—Cut two mackerel in four pieces each, which roll in flour, place them in a pie-dish, season with half an ounce of salt, pepper in proportion, a teaspoonful of chopped onions, fennel or parsley may be added; add a gill of water, cover with a common crust, and bake thoroughly. 19. EEL PIE.—Proceed in the same manner; omit the fennel, add instead a little thyme or winter savoury; a little drop of sherry is a great improvement. This is very good cold. J 20. FISHERMAN’S FOOD.—Cut in slices any kind of white fish, season as for mackerel; mix two ounces of flour smooth in cold water, about the thickness of thin melted butter put your fish in a pie-disli, pour the flour and water over and bake slowly till done and well set. n ?l' ^pKLED MACKEREL.—When mackerel are plenti- ful I pickle them thus: lay six mackerel in a pie-dish, season with one ounce of salt to an ounce of whole pepper, two onions sliced, a few sprigs of parsley, half a pint of vinegar, half a pint of water; cover over with a dish, bake slowly in the oven for an hour; sweet herbs and bay-leaf may be added. Herrino-s and sprats may be cooked in the same manner, giving less time in proportion. ° 22. TO POT OR wall Fashion.)—Take MARINATE PILCHARDS, (Corn- one hundred very fresh pilchards, clean,