394 DESSERT S46. THE QUEEN VICTORIA’S CAKE.—To three- quarters of a pound of flour, add half an ounce of German yeast, mixed with warm water until forming a stiff paste, and place it in a stewpan, and let it stand by the fire or oven until well risen, during which time the butter must be well worked until soft, adding a quarter of a pound of flour more and five ect?s gradually, and beat them well together; when done, if the lenten is well risen, add to it one and a-lialf pound of raisins, with a little salt and sugar; let it stand in the mould for a short time, and bake it in a slow oven. 947. COTTAGE CAKE.—Procure from a baker half a quartern of dough, which put into an earthen pan; melt in a stew- pan half a pound of either fresh or salt butter; mix both well with the hand, adding half a pound of sugar; add to it half a pound of currants well washed, one and a-lialf pound of plums, and a teaspoonful of mixed spice; when well mixed, place it in a hoop or pan before the fire; let it rise for one hour, and send it to be baked; it will take about one hour in a slow oven. 948. W ES r INDIA CAKE.—Proceed as above for the ingredients; then add a quarter of a pound of preserved West Indian ginger, cut in small dice, and four spoonfuls of brandy, and two teaspoonfuls of dry grated ginger; bake as above. 949. ELETHERIAN PINE APPLE CAKE. — Take three-quarters of a pound of pine apple, not over ripe, peel it; place half a pound of white sugar in a pan, with half a pint of water, boil till a thick syrup; cut the pine in small dice of a quarter of an inch, and pour the syrup over; and, when nearly cold, add to it the dough, which has previously been mixed with three-quarters of a pound of butter and two eggs; let it rise in a hoop as above, and bake in the same way: a glass of rum may be added. LETTER No. XVIII. ROYAL ST. JAMES’S CAKE. June 16, 1849. My dear Eloise,—Though you did not expect to hear from me again to- day, after the manuscript I forwarded to you, it is quite an unexpected cir- cumstance that makes me write now, therefore you must know, dear, that, through very great interest, I had this day the honour and pleasure to witness