415 BILLS OF FARE. required for the breakfast, lunch, nursery and servants’ dinners, you will per- ceive that the dinner is the principal expense of the establishment, by which means you are enabled to display more liberality to your guests, and live in greater comfort without waste. Our parties at present, to many of which you have frequently been, and therefore know, vary according to the season: here are a few bills of fare of them ; the following is one for twelve persons :— One soup, say Puree of Artichokes—One Fish, Cod Slices in Oyster Sauca —Remove with Smelts or White Bait. Removes.-—Saddle of Mutton—Turkey in Celery Sauce. Two Entries.—Cutlets a la Provenjale—Sweetbreads larded in any White Sauce. Two Vegetables.—Greens—Kale—Potatoes on the Sideboard. SECOND COURSE. Two Roasts—Partridges—Wild Ducks. Jelly of Fruit—Cheesecakes—Meringue A la Crime—Vegetable —French Salad on the Sideboard. Removes.— Ice Pudding—Beignet Souffle. Dessert of eleven dishes. The following is one for a birthday party, which generally consists of twenty persons:— FIRST COURSE. Two Soups—Two Fish. Removes.—Haunch of Mutton—Boiled Capons A l’Ecarlate. Flancs.—Fricandeau of Veal—Currie of Fowl. Entrees.—Fillets of Beef, sauce Tomate—Cutlets Soubise—Oyster Patties, or Little Vol-au-Vent; Croquettes of Veal or Fowl.* SECOND COURSE. Wild Ducks—Guinea Fowl larded—Charlotte Russe—Punch Jelly Crusts of Fruit—Flanc Meringue—Apple with Rice—Scolloped Oysters—Mayonnaise of Fowl—Sea Kale or Asparagus. Removes.—Turban of Condi: Glacee—Cheese Souffle a la Vanille. Dessert of nineteen dishes. The bills of fare for our small evening parties, say thirtv persons, are as follows; everything is cold, although I know that the fashion has been pro- gressing towards having hot removes. Our table on those occasions is, as you know, in the form of a horseshoe which, in my opinion, is the most sociable after that of a round one, and upon the sociability of the supper depends in a great measure the success of the party. In the centre, and at the head of the table, I place a large Grouse- * These should be served on dishes with a napkin.