315 SECOND COURSE. used three parts of a pint of oil, and a corresponding quantity of vinegar; by continually working, it will form a stiffish cream- looking sauce perfectly smooth; add a little more seasoning if required, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, with half that quantity of chopped eschalots; pour over the lobster and serve. Should the sauce curdle in making, the operation must be again performed, putting a yolk of an egg into another basin, working it with a little oil until forming a stiffish paste, then stir in the curdied sauce by degrees until the whole becomes smooth; always choose a cool place to make it in. This requires a little practice. 682. FISH SALADS.—Ail fish salads are made precisely as in the last, from the remains of fish from a previous dinner, especially turbot and salmon; but for fillets of soles they must be dressed thus :— When filleted, melt an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, lay the fillets in, season with pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemon; saute them on a slow fire until done, which may be from four to five minutes, and put by to get cold; cut in middle-sized pieces and use as lobster. 683. NEW MAYONNAISE SAUCE.—Put a quarter of a pint of melted aspic upon ice in a stewpan, which keep whisk- ing until becoming a white froth, then add half a pint of salad oil and six spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, by degrees; first oil and then vinegar, continually whisking until it forms a white smooth sauce, to all appearance like a cream ; season with half a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, and a little sugar, whisk it a little more, and it is ready to serve; it is usually dressed pyramidically over the article it is served with. The advantage of this sauce (which is more delicate than any other) is, that you may dress it to any height you like, and it will remain so for a long time ; if the temperature is not too hot it will remain hours without melting or appearing greasy. 684. TARTAR SAUCE.—Rub the yolk of a cold hard- boiled egg through a hair sieve into a basin, to which add the yolks of two raw eggs, with a little salt and pepper ; mix all together with a wooden spoon; have a pint of good'salad oil in a bottle, hold it with the left hand over the basin, dropping it in very gradually, and with the right continue stirring it°round until it becomes rather thick, then moisten it with a little tarragon vinegar, still keeping it stirred, then more oil, and so on until