DKSSERT. 392 through a gauze wire sieve, taking it off in small pieces, which lay upon a lightly buttered baking-sheet, and bake them in a moderate oven. 938. ROUT CAKES.—Procure one pound of ground al- monds, to which add one pound of powdered sugar, mixing them together with yolks of eggs until forming a stiffisk but flexible paste, when form it into small biscuits of the shapes of coronets, bunches of filberts, birds’ nests, or any other shape your fancy may dictate: let them remain five or six hours, or all night upon the baking-sheet, and bake them in a warm oven. 939. ROUT BISCUITS.—Boil a pound and a quarter of lump sugar, upon which you have rubbed the rind of a lemon, in half a pint of milk; when cold, rub half a pound of butter with, two pounds of flour, make a hole in the centre, pour in the milk with as much carbonate of soda as would lie upon a sixpence, and a couple of eggs, mix the whole into a smooth paste, lay it out upon your baking-sheet in whatever flat shapes you please, ;uid bake them in a very warm oven. The proper way to shape these biscuits is by wooden blocks having leaves, pine-apples, and other devices carved upon them. 940. CREAM BISCUITS.—Rub one pound of fresh butter into one pound of flour, make a hole in the centre, into which put half a pound of powdered sugar, upon which the rind of a lemon was rubbed previously to pounding, and three whole eggs; mix the eggs well with the sugar, and then mix altogether, forming a flexible paste; cut it into round pieces each nearly as large as a wahiut, stamp them flat with a butter-stamp of the size of a crown piece, and bake them in a slack oven. 941. SHREWSBURY CAIvES.—Weigh one pound of flour, into which rub half a pound of butter and six ounces of sugar, make a hole in the centre, into which break a couple of eggs, and add sufficient milk to form a flexible paste, which roll out to the thickness of a penny piece, and cut it into small cakes with a round cutter; bake them in a moderate oven. Ginger Cakes are made precisely as the above, but adding half an ounce of ground ginger before mixing; and Cinnamon Cakes, by rubbing in an ounce and a half of ground cinnamon after the paste is mixed.