SECOND COURSE. 807 shape, by placing the root against some fixture, and running a fork through the middle of the thin part into the board upon which it stands; when cold trim and glaze it lightly over, cutting off the greater part of the root, place it upon a dish, garnished either with savoury jelly or fresh sprigs of parsley. The remains of tongue that has been served may be cut in two lengthwise, and placed in a pudding-mould, with a heavy weight upon it until cold; it makes a much more pleasing- looking dish than the remains of tongue served up with parsley. 662. GALANTINE OF VEAL.—'When I do not like to go to the expense of a turkey or other poultry for a galantine, I procure a small breast of veal, and take out the tendons, which I stew; take out the remaining bones, and trim the meat to about fifteen inches in length and eight in width, using the trimmings for a ragout; season the interior of the breast, and proceed to lay on the forcemeat, veal, ham, and bacon, as directed for the galantine of turkey, roll and sew it up, tie in a cloth, braise, and afterwards press it in precisely the same manner; when quite cold, glaze it nicely and serve, garnished with savoury jelly; or, if for a large supper, six or eight small dishes might be made from it by cutting it into thin slices cross- wise, and dressing six pieces in a border upon each dish, with a little jelly in the middle, or if no jelly, a sprig of parsley or water-cresses; but if served in the latter way, I introduce two ounces of blanched pistachios. When serving the galantine, of course the dishes must be placed at a distance from each other at various parts of the table. I have also made a galantine of a shoulder of lamb in the same way, previously taking out the bones. 663. COLD FILLET OF VEAL.—Roast braise as No. 381; when cold, trim neatly, and garnish with jelly or parsley. A loin of veal larded through the fleshy part with raw ham, and fat bacon, and roasted as above, makes a very delicate dish. A small shoulder of veal might be boned the same as a shoulder of lamb, and made into a galantine. 664. RIBS OF BEEF LARDED.—Choose a piece of beef with about four ribs, and cut very long, carefully take away the bones, lard the fleshy part through with strips of fat bacon, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley; spread some veal stuffing over, and roll it round, keeping the stuffing in the