VEGETABLES. goo The queen of all vegetables, to my fancy, is asparagus. This may almost, be said to be a modern vegetable in this country, and it is one which requires less cooking than perhaps any other, and is considered exceedingly wholesome. 696. YOUNG GREEN PEAS.—Young Green Peas ! Do not these words sound pleasant to the ear, dearest ? I fancy that, by merely raising my eyes from the paper on which I am now writing, I shall see all our garden in buds and blossom; it not only seems to invigorate the sensitive part of one’s appetite, but works upon the mind to that point that you may actually fancy you are breathing in a glowing atmosphere, and that the pearly dew is gracefully descending in small globules from heaven, to fix their sparkling eyes on the pinky bloom of myriads of roses. But, alas ! how soon this charming illusion has disappeared since I have left for a moment the sight of my paper, to give a peep through the garden-window, where I perceive that though to-day is the 17th of April, the serious and uncheerful Father ■Winter has once more monopolised those delightful and variegated nuances of Nature, by laying out his universal snowy tablecloth over this for the present ephemeral vision which the inviting words green peas had produced upon my senses ; no doubt the effect of a good fire in my parlour, where I am now sitting, has had great influence upon me respecting the summery tempera- ture ; but as a few weeks longer will realize my wishes, I shall here content myself by giving you the receipt how they ought to be cooked when you can get them. When they are very young, I like them plain boiled, because their original flavour is so fresh and delicate, that any addition, except a little, fresh butter, would be certain to destroy their aroma; I even object to the introduction of green mint, though I do not want to deprive you of it, being only a matter of taste. Put two quarts of water to boil, with half an ounce of salt, and then place in one pint of peas, boil a full gallop till tender (about ten minutes), put in a colander, drain one minute; lay them, raised in the centre, in a dish, put in them two pats of very fresh butter, and serve. When older or larger, boil a little longer, add twelve leaves of green mint, which serve with it. 697. PEAS, FRENCH WAY.—They do not look so invit- ing not being so green; but I must say they are excellent as regards flavour. Choose them young and fresh; without both oi these qualities they would not cook properly. Put into a sauce- pan a pint of peas, two ounces of butter, and a pint ot water; mix the peas and butter well with your hand, add four button