ENTREES. 255 can be made with the remains of any kind of meat, poultry, game, fish, and even vegetables; hard eggs, or cold mashed potatoes may be introduced in small quantities, and may be fried instead of sauted, in which-case put about two pounds of fat in the frying-pan, and if care is used it will do several times.— (See Frying, p. 70.) This is an entirely new and very econo- mical and palatable dish, and fit for all seasons, and if once tried would be often repeated; the only expense attending it is the purchase of a small wire sieve for the bread-crumbs. The reason I call it twenty receipts in one is, that all kinds of food may be used for it, even shrimps, oysters, and lobsters. 487. RAMIFOLLE.—These are a little more expensive than the fritadella, and worthy the table of a crowned head. The flesh of fowls instead of lamb or veal, with the addition of one or two fat livers cut in dice. Proceed as in the former receipt, using the crumb of French rolls, and one or two truffles cut fine: then make some pancake batter, and saute two pancakes about one-eighth of an inch thick, cover one with the meat, &c., and lay the other over, and put by until cold; when so, cut them to any shape you like, but if like cutlets add the small bone of fowl or pigeon, or the stalk of a sprig of parsley, egg and bread- crumb them, and saute them in oil or lard of a nice yellow colour, and dish them like cutlets, with any of the sauces or garnitures described for mutton cutlets; or if plain, with fried parsley. They may be made of any kind of meat, fish, or poultry. I have latterly had them sent up to table when we have had a few friends, and they have been very much liked;, and, on inquiring the name, I baptized them Ramifolle, without any particular meaning, which name having pleased as much as the dish, therefore let them be called Ramifolles. I hey may be made a plainer way with various meats or liver, and spread over one pancake, which roll over, and when cold cut it into three equal lengths, egg, bread-crumb, and saute as above. 488. PRUSSIAN CUTLETS.—Take a piece of veal, say one pound, from any part of the calf, free from nerve, with a little fat^chop it up, but not too fine, add to it two teaspoonfuls of chopped eschalot, one of salt, half a one of pepper, little grated nutmeg, chop it a little more, and make it into pieces of the size of two walnuts, to which give the shape of a cutlet; egg