486 SOBERS CHARITABLE COOKERY. th, /:n Tg re.ceiPts’ which I consider quite correct. Having thus stated my impressions upon this all-important subject I now glve you the result of my first economical study to pi-odu’ce a cheap and wholesome food.”—See Receipts Nos. 1 and 2. tlJ Vi18 thfse first receipts public, I did not suppose that they would meet with the entire approbation of the nation, par- ticularly by those who imagine that nothing can be good except plenty of animal food is used for the subsistence of man. I shall not enter into a culinary digression to prove it, but I am so satisfied of th a failure of the quantity of nourishment gene- rally obtained by those who cannot make anything good, even with plenty, for want of having the practical judgment, that I make bold to affirm, that the little animal substance I recom- mend, if closely followed, will produce all the nourishment re- quisite when amalgamated in the way described. . As regards the.peelings and ends of vegetables which I use in my receipts, it is a well-known fact, that the exterior of every vegetable, roots in particular, contains more flavour than the interior cf it; which is my reason for recommending only the washing well of those vegetables before they are cut for use, thereby increasing the vegetable produce of the country, and using that which has hitherto only increased the ‘malaria’ of our courts and alleys by its decomposition. Having thus explained my reasons, I now give publicity to my receipts for making soups and other dishes in this form; which I trust vvill prove useful to the benevolent and the whole laborious and industrious population of the country, and pro- duce economy in all charitable institutions, and comfort in every cottage. J o Almost all the productions of nature can be made available, and produce wholesome and nutritious food for man. The following is a short list, taking them in rotation, according to the quantity of nutriment they contain:—Beef, mutton, venison, pork, veal, lamb, hare, rabbits, bacon, lard, dripping, butter, oil: of farinaceous substances,* Indian corn, wheat, rice, barley, rye, buck-wheat, oats, peas, beans, lentils: of vegetables and roots— * Indian corn contains 750 parts of starch, 205 gluten, 30 sugar, 15 tannin. Potatoes contain 200 parts of starch, 40 gluten, 20 sugar.