“FESTIVITIES AT GRENDON HALL. “ A series of festivities are taking place at the seat of Sir George Chetwynd, Bart., Grendon Hall, Atlierstone, Warwickshire, to celebrate the christening of Sir George’s infant grandson. The christening took place on Tuesday, at Grendon church, and in the evening a grand dinner was given in celebration of the event, under the able superintendence of M. Alexis Soyer. As the dinner, which was provided for twenty persons, was of a very reclcerchA description, we subjoin the bill of fare. Deux Potages. One of Clear Turtle. Ditto k la Nivernaise. Deux Poissons. Crimped Severn Salmon a la Regence. Turbot a la Cardinal. La Hanche de Venaison. Deux Relev£s. Deux Poulardes a la Nelson. .2 3 o o *■3 o &, 73 a 03 O SPh o CC .2 rn Pd £ to Six Entrees. Les Ortolans & la Vicomtesse. Epigramme d’Agneau a la puree de concombres. Grenadins de Veau aux petits pois. Filets de Caneton au jus d’orange. C6telettes de Mouton a la Proven9ale. Turban de Volaille a la Perigord. Deux Rfltis. Cailles bardees aux feuilles de vignes. Gelinottes des Ardenues. Is CC 73 00 ** o >Vi o g a. ►C © S-gi c 2. — o 3 o Huit Entremets. Turban de Meringues aux Pistaches. Galantine a la Voliere. Vegetable Marrow a la Bechamel. Bavaroise Mousseuse a TAnanas. — Ices. Pine Apple and Strawberry. Pain de Fruit aux Pfiches. Crofttades d’Artichaux a Tlndienne. Miroton de Homard a la Gel6e. Blanche Creme au Marasquin. Deux Releves St. James’s Hure de Sanglier en surprise glace Cake, a la Vanille. the first Petits Biscuits souffles a la Crfime. ever made. “The company at dinnerincluded the MarquisandMarchionessof Downshire, and the Dowager Marchioness, Lord and Lady Howe, Mr. and Lady Charlotte Chetwynd, Lord Sandys, Mr. and Mrs. Dugdale, Mr. and Mrs. Hudson, of Cheswardine Hall, Shropshire; Mr. and Mrs. Grimes, Mr. W. H. Chetwynd, the Rev. Henry and Mrs. Hanmer, and other relations of the family. “ After dinner M. Soyer had the honour of presenting the youthful heir the prcof copy of his new work on cookery.” Morning Post, July 26, 1849.