FISH. 150 This sole, if it should come to table, is certain of being fresh, as it will not keep for any length of time. If properly fished, they are brought up alive, and put into the.wells of the vessel, and come as far as the mouth of the river, where they are taken out and killed by throwing them down violently on the deck, and are then sent to market in baskets containing about twenty- five pair each. The small-sized soles caught in shallow water on the coast are the best in flavour. Those caught at the Silver Pits, a place about 150 miles off the mouth of the Humber, are larger, but not so good. They are at times caught in great abundance, as much as 1000 pair at one haul, and vary in size ; some are as large as seven pounds each ; the older they are the larger they become, and which may be known by the scales. In a haul (perhaps the first ever made there) in Ballinskellig’s Bay, close in shore, and not far from the residence of the celebrated late Daniel O Connell, made in October, 1818, sixty soles weighed two hundredweight. Those in roe should only be used for fillets, as their flavour is then insipid. Their freshness may be distinguished by their colour as well as their smell, and the middle-sized are preferable. Should they be caught in great abundance, they may be skinned, cleaned, and dried. 261. SOLES, FRIED.—Have about four pounds of lard or clean fat in a small fish-kettle, which place over a moderate fire, cut off the fins of the sole, and dip it into flour, shake part of the flour off, have an egg well beaten upon a plate, with which brush the fish all over, and cover it with fine bread-crumbs; ascertain if the lard is hot, by throwing in a few bread-crumbs; it will hiss if sufficiently hot, put in the fish, which will require nearly ten minutes cooking, and ought to be perfectly crisp, drain it on a cloth, dish upon a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve shrimp sauce in a boat. The above quantity of lard or fat, if carefully used and not burnt, would do for several occasions, by straining it off each time after using. All kinds of fish, such as eels, smelts, whitings, flounders, perch, gudgeons, &c. are fried precisely in the same manner. Regulate the time according to the size of your fish.