472 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. . 59' CUSTARD OF APPLES.—Boil half ounce of ground rice in a pint of milk, with a little lemon peel; add to it one ounce of butter, two of sugar; when nearly cold, add to it one egg well beaten, pour over your apples, which have been pre- pared as for common tarts, bake in a slow oven for nearly one hour; when done, put one ounce of white sugar over, mix with little lemon; put back for ten minutes, or salamander over with red hot shovel. Serve hot or cold. 60. PRINCE OF WALES’S CHERRY CAKE Proceed lor your paste as No. 54. Stone a pound of good cherries, place lem flat on your paste, put two ounces of powdered sugar over, bake half-an-hour; break the stones, put the kernels in a small stew pan, with half an ounce of sugar, a glass of brandy or water; boil a few minutes, pour the syrup over your cherries and serve cold. Raspberry and Currant, Black Currant, Mulberry, Cranberry, are made the same. No syrup required. 61. SUGAR CAKE.—Put in a pan one pound and half of flour, one pound of butter, quarter pound of powdered sugar; rub the whole well together, moisten with lukewarm milk, in which you have dissolved half ounce of German yeast; the consistency of this paste must be only little firmer than bread dough; de- tach it well from the pan with your hands, by throwing in a little flour; roll it in a lump, place it back in the pan, cover with a cloth, set in a warm jilace to rise for one hour, and use- it as follows:—Clean and well butter a baking sheet, put your paste on your board with a little flour, roll flat about one inch in thickness; lay your sheet square or round, make rather a thick rim, mark round with a knife in a slanting way, prick it. through several times with a fork, water it over with a paste- brush, put in a nice slow warm oven; when nearly done, sugar over rather thick, put it back to bake, or salamander over; a little lemon, orange, cinnamon, may be introduced in the sugar. This is an excellent tea-cake. Serve it whole, or cut in various shapes. larts of every description, or puddings, may be made with this paste, and also used for the Prince of Wales’s cherry cake. 62. COMMON PASTE WITHOUT YEAST.—Put one pound of flour, quarter pound of butter, little sugar, salt very little, moisten with warm water, or milk, as above; bake same as-