467 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. mushrooms may be added, but oysters are preferable; boil the pudding according to the size, and serve; mutton pudding and lamb done in the same way is excellent, but the meat should be cut from the leg or the loin end of either. The seasoning for t le above pudding is composed thus,—salt, pepper, two shalots chopped fine, two pinches of dry thyme in powder, and a table- spoonful of fresh parsley, chopped well; mix the whole, and season gradually while you are filling the pudding. Observe that I do not mean to classify this dish among our Economical Receipts for, let me tell you that the gentleman to whom we are indebted for this receipt is one of the most sensible gourmets of the age, il deguste toujours enmangeant • he is more he is a profound writer on the gastronomic art. DDING- PASTE.—Chop rather fine three ounces of suet, put in a basin with half a pound of flour, a quarter of an ounce of salt, rub well together; add one egg, and a wine glass- iul of water; form a nice paste, not too firm or too soft! use also for suet pudding. 45. PASTE FOE SAVOURY PUDDING.-I often intro- duce in the paste, for change, a little chopped parsley, a little shalot, winter savory, or thyme; these herbs cost very little and are relishing and wholesome. ’ vaSonnioUpastI“'’ ‘amb' °r eT“ pig’S &t’ make a S°0<1 LETTER XXVII. PHYSIOLOGY OP TARTS, PIES, AND PIECRUST. Lear Eloise, Mrs Atriter?°WfiCUl0US 'tmay appeal' to ^s Smith, or Mrs. Brown or Mrs. Any-body-else, do not omit to give room to the following remarks o^ies stTth“ m?crrplc T Tarks may seem t0 stand them well. Eor example, where is the little boy or little girl in Great Britain who has not eaten pies sweet and savoury; fron/childhoodwe eafpies-W girlhood and boyhood we eat pies-from middle age to old age we eat pies^ in tact, pies in England may be considered as one of nnr Wf ** . through life. It is we who leave them behind ZtgjT&Z' for our children and grandchildren will be as fond of pie as we have been TheZ' fore it is needful that we should learn how to make them, and make them wein Beheve me, I am not jesting, but if all the spoiled pies made for the d“ner of H H 2