SECOND COURSE. 292 by the softness of their quills ; females will eat better than males, they are more tender and juicy. Old pheasants are known by the length and sharp- ness of their spurs, in young ones they are short and blunt.—Old partridges before Christmas have light blue legs, instead of yellow-brown.—Wild fowl may be known to be old from their bills and the stiffness of the sinews of the legs, those that have the finest plumage are the worst eating.—Hares and rabbits: try if the ear will easily tear and the jaw-bone break between the finger and the thumb, if not they are only fit for soup or jugging.—On receiving birds of all kinds, put in their mouths three or four peppercorns bruised and one clove of garlic, and pepper the place where shot. In case you receive many, tie a piece of paper to them with the date on which they were received. 614. PHEASANTS.—At the present day there are great varieties of these birds, which differ as much in their flavour as their plumage. There are also a Large quantity of hybrids sold in the London market as a genuine pheasant, and it is impossible to know them when plucked. The flavour of the bird will depend in a great measure on the nature of the country where it is killed. Have them prepared and trussed: put them about eighteen inches from the fire for five minutes, then draw them close, and roast as quickly as possible, rubbing them all over with an ounce of butter pressed in a wooden spoon, serve up with bread sauce separate, and good gravy under. They are also good larded, or one larded and the other barded. 615 PARTRIDGES.—The red-legged in this country are not so fine in flavour as the gray; they are dressed like the pheasant, but all the time at a very quick fire, and served very hot from the spit; it is better to wait a minute or two for it than to have it wait for you: dish it up with a little made gravy with it, and bread-sauces, as above. 616. GROU SE.—We have three kinds in this country ; namely, black, red, and white. The first, the Black Grouse, is called the Black Cock (le Coq de Bray ere). The female in the north is called the Gray Hen, but in the south of England male and female are called Heath Poults. These birds should be weli kept, trussed like a fowl for roast- in-. and served with brown gravy under, or may be dressed as follows: truss as before, covering the breast with vine leaves and fat bacon, which tie on; roast from half to three quarters of an hour according to size, and serve with toast under, and melted butter over. 617 RED GROUSE, GORCOCK, or MOORCOCK {the common Moor Game (VA ttagas).—Trussed like a fowl tor roast-