ENTREES. 228 421. OX HEART.—This dish, although not very recherche, is a good family one, and remarkable for its cheapness. Put it into lukewarm water, one hour to disgorge, then wipe it well ■with a cloth, and stuff the interior with a highly-seasoned veal stuffing, tie it up in paper, and pass a small spit through the sides, set it before a good fire for about two hours to roast, keeping it well basted—being almost deprived of fat, basting is thus required; when done, take off the paper, and serve with any sharp sauce, or a little plain gravy. Two hours would be sufficient to roast a large heart; but if smaller, of course less time in pro- portion would be required. I have also stuffed a heart with sage and onion, and even ventured the apple sauce: both succeeded admirably, and it can be baked as well as roasted. I remember, when in business, upon one occasion, having a few friends pop in unexpectedly about luncheon-time upon a Saturday (which is a day I always contrive to keep my larder as short as possible), and having nothing but a heart as a meal to give them, I immediately gave orders to the cook to cut it into slices half an inch thick, dip each piece in flour, and afterwards egg and bread-crumb them, then to put four spoonfuls of oil in the frying-pan, lay part of the pieces in, and saute of a nice colour, then to keep them hot in a dish, and saute the remainder; and when all done, to pour off part of the oil, put a teasponful of flour in the pan, mixing it with the remaining oil and gravy, then pouring in a gill of water, season with a little pepper and salt, four spoonfuls of the vinegar from piccalilly, and a little of the pickle finely chopped; boil the whole a minute, pour over the heart, and serve very hot. It pleased very much, and they made a hearty meal from it; and I have since had some with a little plain gravy, and broiled bacon: in both instances it was very good. 422. POTATO SANDWICHES.—Saute the slices of beef as directed for bubble and squeak, cover one side of each piece with mashed potatoes a quarter of an inch in thickness, egg and bread-crumb over, then proceed the same with the other sides, fry in hot fat of a light brown colour, as you would a sole, and serve. Any kind of fresh meat may be used the same way. 423. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.—I am certain you must know, as well as myself, our hereditary dish called bubble and squeak; but, like the preparation of other things, there is a good way and a bad; and, as you prefer the former to the latter, proceed as follows:—Boil a few greens, or a savoy cabbage (which has been previously well washed), in plain