FISH. 133 Gurnard, Gurnet, or Noud, derives its name from the grunting noise it makes ; the Romans called it cuculus, from the cuckoo, from the similarity of their notes. There are several sorts, called the gray, red, streaked, yellow, and sapphirine. All of them are fine eatrng, yet perhaps the sapphirine is the best, being distinguished from the rest (which are called pipers) by its colour and the long protrusion of the upper jaw; the side or pectoral fins are on the outside green, and a beautiful purple underneath ; its sides are red, belly white and back green, which, when seen in a clear sea, has a most beautiful ap^ pearance. Its freshness is distinguished like other fish. It is cooked as follows: 1 239. GURNETS are best stuffed and baked. Stuff them as directed for haddocks, turn them round in the same manner, lay slices of bacon over, cut very thin, and bake half an hour or more (according to their size) in a hot oven; when done, dress upon a dish without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce :—put a tablespoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan, with one of vinegar, place over the fire a couple of minutes, add half a pint of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce, one of catsup, and two of water, reduce until rather thick, season with a little pepper, cut the fillets of a good anchovy, if handy, into strips, put in the sauce, which pour round the fish, and serve. 240. BOILED GURNET.—You may boil it either with or without the stuffing, in very salt water; it will re- quire rather more than half an hour; serve with anchovy sauce separate. The remains are very good to re-warm. Basse.—This, by many, is called the sea-wolf, but it is quite a different fish; it is a species of perch, and is like a trout in shape, except that its head is larger. Its flavour is finest just previous to spawning; it is never caught in rivers, but in bays at the mouth of fresh-water streams, and, when in season, is exceedingly good and very wholesome ; it should be cooked in every way like salmon. Tunny.—I have often been of opinion, and am still doubtful, if this fish is hot the scomber of the Romans, from which the garum was made, this fish