SECOND COURSE. 813 cipal interest they excite in us is when we visit a shell-fish shop to choose the largest .and best for the smallest price. They are, without doubt,, a very nourishing aliment, and are by many supposed to have a particular season, but which I believe not to be the case, as I have known them in and out of season on the same ground. When out of season, the pea or spawn is very large, and about being hatched ; immediately after which it sheds its shell, but not its stomach, as is by many supposed. When in season, and fine- flavoured, they should have no spawn, or very little, under the tail; and when its body is squeezed between the fingers it should not give, but be hard ; its weight will also be a test, as it is a fish which wastes very much when kept long alive without food. Great care must be observed in the boiling of it. A number should be placed at one time in a basket, and that placed in boiling- water, adding half a pound of salt to every gallon of water, with a heavy weight upon it : if over-done, they eat tough and thready ; if under-done, unwholesome and unpalatable. One weighing a pound will take fifteen minutes, and so on in proportion. 6(6. GRATIN OF LOBSTER.—Procure a good-sized lobster, cut it in half, detaching the head from the body; take out all the meat, and save the four shells; cut the meat into slices, then take a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of two walnuts, pass them a few minutes over the fire, add a tablespoonful of flour (mix well), and half a pint of milk, stir over the fire, boiling about five minutes, then add the lobster, which season with a little cayenne, salt, chopped parsley, and essence of anchovies; stand it again upon the fire, stirring until boiling, then stir in the yolk of an - ta ^e ofl the fire, fill the shells of the lobster, sprinkle bread- crumbs over, with a little butter, put in the oven for twenty minutes; dish on a napkin and serve. To give it a nice colour, use the salamander, or a red-hot shovel. 6((. MIROTON SALAD OF LOBSTER.—Prepare and r|a.mei?t a boi'd®r °f e£&s> like for that of game (No. 686), put a thick layer of fresh salad in the centre, and dress over it, in a TTVi\ r obster interspersed with slices of eggs and gherkins. The lobster must be divided in two across the back, extract the meat caref ully out of it, and cut it in a round or slanting direction to the thickness of a crown-piece, break the claws arid cut the same way and place on salad as above, so as to form a thick crown near the border of eggs, then take the interior of the lobster pound it and pass it through a fine sieve, add to your sauce Any other kind of fish, as cod fish, &c., when cold, cut or break