470 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. the water, then cut up a breast of lamb iu small pieces, and lay in a layer of meat and a layer of the parsley until full, then cover with paste 50. Season with salt and pepper. fO. PASra FOR PIES, PUDDINGS, TARTS, AND CAKES. Put in a pan half pound of flour, quarter pound of di ipping, quarter ounce salt, rub the whole well together for about two minutes, add by degrees a gill of water, mix your paste well, which requires to be very hard; throw a little flour on your board, roll, and use it as you like. For half Puff Paste, see Pastry. 51. Another Way.—Three ounces of dripping make good paste, even two,for meat pies, especially where there are children; of course, instead of dripping, suet chopped fine may be used, also lard or butter; if I make this crust for fruit pies, I generally add a little sugar to the paste. 52. Useful to the Middle Glass.—Wlien I am short of dripping I buy two or three pounds of beef or mutton suet, cut in small dice, put it in a pan with gill of water, set on a slow fire, when well melted and very clear I add an ounce of salt, a few sprigs of thyme, two bay leaves; pass it through a clean cloth into a jar, when cold, cover it over with a piece of bladder; it will keep good for mouths; use when required for either sweet or savoury pies. Omit the herbs for the first. Here is a little bit of extravagance from the Camelia Lady, as they call me here, having christened my small abode “ Camelia Cottage,” instead of “ Rabbit Cottage,” which I consider a very unclassical name. 53. SWEET ROYAL PASTE.—Put in a basin one pound of flour, half a pound of fresh butter; rub both well together with your hand; make a well in the basin; add six yelk of eggs, quarter of an ounce of salt, two ounces of white sugar, on the lump of which you have rubbed part of the rind of an orange or lemon previous to pounding it; mix gradually your flour and yelk, and enough cream or milk by degrees to form a rather stiffish paste; when very smooth, use it where described. Any kind of fruit pie, tart, or almost any pastry with fruit or jam, may be made with this paste. For Puff Paste, see 731. 54. GEORGE THE FOURTH’S FRUIT CAKE.—Roll half pound of the above paste, about quarter inch thick, shape it as round as possible, turn the eggs half an inch round, form