356 JELLIES. as they are. Creams may be made of any flavour, and of either ripe fruits, jams, or marmalade; they are made plain thus: Put the yolks of five eggs in a stewpan, with six ounces of sugar, beat it up with a spoon until white; in another stewpan have a pint of milk and one ounce of isinglass, boil ten minutes, stir continually to prevent burning, flavour with vanilla or anything to your taste, pour the milk on the eggs and sugar, put on the fire, stir well together, do not let it boil, pass through a tammy into a round bowl; when cold, set on ice, add two or three glasses of liqueur, keep stirring its contents, and when setting, add three parts of a pint of cream well whipped; mix well toge- ther, and pour into your mould in the ice, and keep there till required; turn out as before. 814. CHARLOTTE RUSSE.—Line the inside of a plain round mould with Savoy biscuits, cutting and placing them at the bottom to form a rosette, standing them upright and close together, fill with any of the above creams, omitting the fruits, place the mould in ice, let it remain till ready to serve, turn over on a dish, and remove the mould. 815. STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE.—Line a plain round mould with ripe strawberries by burying the mould, in ice to the rim, and dipping the strawberries in calf’s-foot jelly, first covering the bottom with them cut in halves, the cut side down- wards, afterwards building them up the sides, the jelly (which must be cold, but not set) causing them to adhere; when finished fill it with the cream as directed for the charlotte russe, and when ready to serve dip the mould in warm water, and turn it out upon your dish. The cream must be very nearly set when you pour it in, or it would run between the strawberries, and produce a bad effect. 816. CHARTREUSE CAKE OF VARIEGATED FRUITS.—Line a charlotte mould very tastefully with various kinds of fruits (such as stoned cherries, strawberries, pieces of peaches, apricots, &c.) by dipping them into jelly, forming some design at the bottom of the mould, and building them in reverse rows up the sides, having the mould previously placed in ice; when well set, terminate as in the last. 817. BLANCMANGER.—To one quart of milk add one ounce of isinglass, a quarter of a pound ot sugar, a quarter of an