162 FISH. in which some essence of anchovies has been mixed. The time they take cooking depends on the size, but may be known by the skin turning up. Lamprey.—There are several species of this fish; that called the lesser lamprey, which we get in the river Thames and in the Severn, at Gloucester, is the best; it is a fish which was thought a great deal of, but I am doubtful if it is the munena of the Romans, as the lamprey of the present day lives entirely by suction and swims close to the surface of the water, and could not, by the nature of its construction, feed near the bottom ; and, conse- quently, could not be fed on the bodies of slaves, as is recorded of those with which the Emperor Augustus was treated ; its food (so far as I have been able to ascertain from examination of some thousands) consists of small water insects and animalcule. Those caught when just ascending the river from the sea are the best, which is about Christmas. There is a curious custom still extant, of the city of Gloucester presenting the Queen with a lamprey- pie every Christmas. 284. CONGER EEL is little appreciated in this country, although amongst the working class of om neigh- bours, more particularly the French, it is an article of gieat consumption. If alive, its head should be cut off, and it should bleed as much as possible; but if dead, the pieces should be put into lukewarm water to disgorge previous to being cooked. The young fry are exceedingly good, and may be dressed like fresh-water eels. The large ones may be made into soup, and can also be cooked like sturgeon. 285. —FRENCH ANGLERS’ WAY OF STEWING FISFI.—Take about four pounds or less of all kinds of fresh- water fish, that is, carp, pike, trout, tench, eels, &c., or any- one of them, cut them into nice middle-sized pieces, no matter the size of the fish—let the pieces be of equal size; put them in a black pot or stewpan, season over with a tablespoonful of salt, half one of pepper, half one of sugar, four good-sized onions, sliced thin, add a half bottle of common French wine, or four glasses of port or sherry,