CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. 409 tile drawing-room just before tea, and it appeared that her young boy Fred followed her ; whilst we were at tea he was very communicative, as children sometimes will be (l’enfant terrible), and said, “We have been having such fun in the kitchen.” On inquiry he said, “ My mother has been down stairs scolding Jane, and I hid myself behind the door ; and when my mother had gone up, Betsy the cook spoke and moved her hands just like mamma; it made us all laugh so, it was such fun.” I need not tell you it was no fun for Mrs. G , who looked rather annoyed. We should ever remember, that we have our feelings, and should also think that others have theirs: and I think it as much the mistress’s fault when anything goes wrong in the house as the servants’. I only lose my servants when they get married, or from ill health, and the only thing that I find bad, is, that they quarrel amongst themselves; but should this occur thrice with the same two, I dismiss them both. I am certain, that if you teach your servants to take care of themselves, they are certain to take care of you. I continually hear Mrs. M. complaining of changing her servants, and that seems to be her sole occupation. Poor thing, she has no children, and nothing to occupy her mind, and without occupation the mind becomes diseased, and the least action throws it into fever. Mrs. N. complains of the extravagance of her servants.; it is her own extravagance, or, more properly speaking, her want of manage- ment, which causes all; but this I really think, that if everybody were more cautious in receiving and giving characters to servants than what they are, we should not hear the continual complaint we do when often assembled in the drawing-room after dinner, when, perhaps, some dear old lady com- plains of the education given to young people of the present day, and that, in time, there will be no such thing as servants. To some extent I am of her opinion, and consider that the education given by all classes to their children is a great deal more ornamental than useful. I would rather see the child taught some of the accomplishments of housekeeping, than that she should be considered as the mere ornament of the drawing-room. It is for that reason I patronise that institution in this metropolis, which stands almost alone in the education of those entrusted to its care. I became acquainted with it from Mr. B. serving as steward at its anniversary festival, and inscribing my name as a life governess. (It is the Freemasons’ Girls’ School.) 1 here is no servant kept, and the duties of the house are performed by the children in classes, taking it in turns a week each ; and thus with a good and useful education, they are taught all those duties which devolve upon them when they increase in years ; and when we see that several of the parents of those children at the time of their birth have kept their carriages and est,a- blishments, I think it is the bounden duty of eveiy mother, where the income of the husband may be dependent on trade or profession, to give them that education which even the most adverse of circumstances may call upon them to assume; and the more so, as at the present day talent requires to be