ENTREES. 277 good handful of bread-crumbs, a little white pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, mix well together with an egg, and form it into six little round balls, which egg and bread-crumb twice over, and fry in a little hot lard, of a very light brown colour, then dress the curry upon a dish, lay the brain-croquets round, and serve with rice separately. 555. CALF’S HEAD CURRY is usually made with the remains left from a previous dinner; if about two pounds of meat remaining upon the bone, cut it whilst cold into thin slices, then cut two onions and two apples into small dice, which put into a stewpan with an ounce of butter and half a clove of garlic cut in slices, stir with a wooden spoon over the fire until sauteed nice and brown, when add a tablespoonful of curry powder, half one of flour, mix well, then pour in a pint of broth, add a little salt, and boil twenty minutes, keeping it well stirred; then put in the calf’s head, and let it remain upon the fire until quite hot through; add the juice of half a lemon, which stir in very gently without breaking the meat, dress it upon a dish, and serve with rice separately. Curry sauce may be passed through a sieve previously to putting the head in. 556., CALF’S FEET CURRY.—After boiling a set of feet for calf’s feet jelly, the feet may be served in curry as follows: separate the feet from the bones whilst the feet are warm; when cold, cut them into small square pieces, and proceed exactly as in the last; or use curry sauce. 557. CALF’S TAIL CURRY.—Cut up calves’ tails into joints, which pat into a stewpan, with a small piece of lean ham and a bunch ot parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; cover them with three pints of cold water, and let simmer about two hours, until tender, keeping them well skimmed; when done, strain the stock through a hair sieve into a basin, and put the tails upon a plate; then proceed as directed for calf’s head curry, but using the stock from the tails, and reducing the curry until rather thickish before adding the tails. 558. OX TAIL CURRY is made precisely as in the last, but one tail would be sufficient, and it would require double the time to stew; or use curry sauce. o59. TRIPE CURRY.—Cut two large onions into very small dice, which put into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, and stir over the fire until brown, when well mix in a table-