347 SECOND COURSE. '80. LEMON CHEESECAKES.—Place in a stewpan one pound of white sugar, four whole eggs and the yolks of two, three finger biscuits grated, the juice of three lemons, and the rinds well rubbed with sugar; then add half a pound of good butter, place the stewpan over a slow fire, stir until the mixture looks like honey, put it by in a jar for use. It will keep for years. Any flavour, such as vanilla or cinnamon, may be added, if liked, when required for use. Having made the paste and lined the tins, mix one tablespoonful of the mixture with a tea- cupful of good milk, and place a little in each tartlet. 781. SWEET OMELETS.—Break six eggs in a basin, into which put a teaspoonful of sugar, three of cream, or a few small pieces of butter; put two ounces of butter in an omelet-pan- when quite hot, pour in the eggs and proceed as for Omelets of Herbs, turn over on your dish, sift some powdered sugar over, salamander and serve. 782. OMELETS OF PRESERVED FRUITS, viz., Cur- rant jelly. Raspberry and Strawberry Jam, Apricots, Peaches, Cherries, &c., are made the same as the last, but, just before turning on your dish, put two spoonfuls of preserve in the centre, sugar over, salamander and serve. 783 MACEDOINE OF OMELETS.-Instead of making one with eight eggs, make four, with two eggs each, of different before^ pi’eSerVeS; Serve on the same dish, sugar over, &c., as 784 OMELET WITH RUM.-The same as sweet omelet round, Id ZTon° fhT" ^ P°U1' tW° gl&SSeS of ™ 785. BEIGNET SOUFFLE.-Put in a stewpan a pint of i k or water, a teaspoonful of sugar, two ounces of butter a few drops of essence of vanilla, or any flavour you please give it a boil, throw in some flour, keep stirring all the time unttl it itself? qUlttlthlCk andrD01<?nger tastes of the dour, and detaches itself from the pan. It will take about half an hour as the better it is done the lighter it is ; withdraw it from the fire stir n six eggs, one at a time, sift about two ounces of su-ai imt the paste is of the stiffness of puff paste; have read^a ’ n 0 ho fat, into which you drop by a spoon small pieces of paste it will increase their size; and when a nice colour, tZtlZ0ut drain, and dish on a napkin, with sifted sugar over. ’