299 SECOND COURSE. than tho tame. The tame rabbit, if properly fed 21 days before killing, may bo made a very delicate article of nourishment; it should be kept from two to four days. When killed, it should be removed to a cold place as quick as possible, that the fat may set. If old, the claws will be long and rough, the coat rough, and gray hairs mixed with it. If young, the claws and wool smooth. If stale, the flesh will be slimy and a bluish colour; if fresh, it will be stiff, and the flesh white and dry. 649. RABBITS, TO SKIN, &c.—Cut round the skin at the first joint of the hind legs, and pull the skin up a little, then run the knife between the sinew and the bone of the leg, so as to make a hole to hang it on a nail in a wall, with the head downwards ; run a knife along the skin inside the thigh as far as the tail, so as to cut it, then run the hand under the skin, and it will easily separate from the body; pull it down towards, the head, taking care not to tear the belly; when you have arrived as far as the head, pull up the fore legs, cutting the feet off at the first joint, then pull up the ears by running a skewer between the skin and the head, and pull the skin off, cutting the nose and lips; remove it from the nail, cut off the hind feet at the first joint; cut open the body, remove the inside, reserve the liver, heart, and kidneys, and throw away the remainder ; wash out the inside. If for roasting, make the following stuff- ing : take the liver, heart, and kidneys, blanch them, put them into a fryingpan with a little fat and one small onion chopped up; saute a little, then remove and chop them up with two ounces of pork fat or bacon, a little parsley, and mixed with bread- crumbs and the yolk of an egg; stuff and sew up the belly. Truss as follows: bring the hind and fore legs close to the body towards the head, run a skewer through each, then run a skewer in at the mouth and through the neck to keep it upright; it should be exactly as if it was sitting. Put a string round the body from skewer to skewer, and it is ready. 650. HARES.—One is sufficient for a roast, skin and truss it nicely, as for the Rabbit, stuff the interior with a good veal stuffing, sew it up, then put it on the spit, rub butter over the back and shake flour over it, roast it about forty minutes before a sharp fire, but that depends upon the size, of course; serve them with plain gravy in the dish and current jelly separate; They are also served with a sauce poiverade, or sweet sauce; they may also be larded.