412 CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. taken, as you perceive, from the plan of that of the one "At Home,” in Soyer s Regenerator. There is the small mortar, the dressers are made with drawers and slides, which is a very great improvement, as anything that is dirty is placed upon it, and thus saves the cloth. The rail above contains all the copper stewpans. This other dresser is used for placing the dishes on when sending up the dinner; it has the covers over it, and underneath the dripping-pan, frying-pan, gridiron, so that nothing is hid from the sight, therefore they cannot but be clean. Mrs. L.—I perceive it, and a very good system it is, for at home, when I open one of those mysterious closets, I find them full of dirt, broken plates, old towels, and everything that is wanted to be hid from sight. I shall cer- tainly make that reform immediately. Mrs. B.—There is a little sink with hot and cold water. But this small room is what I call the scullery; it is, as you see, supplied with hot and cold water, and has a sink, in which are washed the plates, dishes, coppers, &e., or anything else, so that all dirt is kept out of the kitchen; and you see this is every bit as clean as the kitchen. We will now go into the little room which I pride myself upon, it is the larder; it is but small, being only ten feet by eight—paved and lined with slate, and the window, which is pro- tected by wire, opens to the North. Under the window is the pastry-slab, with ice drawer under that; in this corner is the meat block and table with scales to weigh all that comes into the larder. Here is the safe with a sliding door on pulley, and in which are the vegetable bins, and here is one of Ling’s patent ice-safes. The meat is, as you perceive, hanging from tin hooks: these two boxes I have latterly had made; this one contains powdered herbs of all kinds (Makepeaces), and also essences for confectionery, and as they get empty I have them re-filled at the Italian warehouse; this more especially belongs to the kitchen; and is what I call the housewife’s box. But its contents must at present remain a secret, as I intend to give you a little surprise; they are both absolutely requisite in a house, and it is surprising what a deal of labour and time is saved by having them always ready. Here is the week's file of the tradesmen’s bills; and this is a list of the kitchen stock, which, together with that of china, glass, and linen, is taken every three months.* * The following are the Utensils that I use in the kitchen, or, as the French call it, batteiie dc cuisine, which I flatter myself to be quite complete:— 8 copper stewpans, two larger ones, holding one gallon and a half, and the next one gallon, the others smaller by degrees to one pint; 1 oval fish-kettle, holding about one gallon and a half, but if by chance I have a turbot, I borrow a kettle from the fishmonger; 1 middle-sized braising-pan; 1 pre- serving-pan ; 1 round bowl for beating whites of eggs; 2 saute-pans ; 1 omelette-pan; 1 frying-pan; 1 bain-marie; 6 saucepans for the sauce; 1