73 BROILING. This of course puzzled my culinary imagination still more ; and I perceived, that if the word was translated to his meaning, it would sound most absurd and ridiculous ; as, for example, on being at a festive board, and a polite young gentleman, or even your own husband, might gallantly offer to give you a blow-up cutlet, instead of a cotelette saute, as they sav in fashionable circles. I can easily conceive, that if the cotelette was blown up, it would stand a chance of coming down on the other side, thus saving the cook the trouble ; but if Guy Fawkes had unfortunately succeeded, it would have produced quite another effect. Having failed in my literary researches, I "ned t0 find !t ln Pra*tice. I therefore went to my kitchen, and put two spoonfuls of oil m a saute pan j I took a nice spring chicken prepared for eroding, put it on the fire; and as the fire began to act upon it, the oil egan to jump, and also slightly the chicken. I then perceived that the way my French friend used the word was right; and that, after all there was not a such a great difference in Guy Fawkes’s plan of cooking the Parlia- ment, and that of a cutlet or chicken ; for both were doomed to destruction, the one by falling in awful ruins on the fire, and the other devoured by a ravenous stomach on the dinner-table. Now, dearest, having found no means of translating it to my satisfaction, I see no other plan but to adopt amongst us, and give it letters of naturalization, not for the beauty of the rd, but for its utility. The process of sauteing is at once quick, simple iL aTfT ’ r n° ^ WeU d°De fUmisheS a PleasinS --tide of food art of doing it well consists in doing it quickly, to keep the gravy and succulence in the meat, which a slow process would nullify it ;! of 7 confined to small articles of eveiy kind of food. BROILING is, without doubt, the earliest and most primitive mode of ItVoT of trg thatwhlChW0uld Present M to man in a state of nature it enf 1 1 6 T PartS °f C0°kery’ aUd therefore should be done well • ? T / P UP°n ^ fire> Whi0h must be exceedingly clear and the’ best gndiron is that having round bars, which should be piled slaliTg 0ter gridiron “ pLd ^ ^ ^ ™ bck, „P„„ the proper lrdi,ng cst, “t