DESSERT. 389 928. PINE APPLES.—I have tried several experiments with the West Indian pine apples, many of which being rather stale when they arrive here, would make an unsightly appearance whole upon the table, but made into a compote or salad, they are really very excellent, having also the advantage of being very cheap. For a compote, peel one rather thickly, to leave no black spots upon it, make a syrup with half a pound of sugar, as directed (No. 903), out your pine apple into round slices a quarter of an inch in thickness, which put into the syrup, boiling them ten minutes; take them out with a colander-spoon, reduce the syrup until thickish, and pour it over the pine-apple; when cold it is ready to serve. For a salad, peel and cut a pine-apple into small square dice, which put into a basin with two ounces of sugar-candy (pow- dered) and a glass of noyeau, toss all well together and serve. For marmalade, pare and cut into small pieces several small pine-apples, and to every quart thus cut up add one pound of fine sugar, boil for half an hour, and put in a pot. CAKES. 929. CAKE OF SAVOY IN MOULD.—Have ready a large high mould lightly buttered (with a soft brush, and clarified butter), turn the mould up to drain, and when the butter is quite set throw some finely-sifted sugar into it; move the mould round until the sugar has adhered to every part, after which turn out the superfluous sugar-, tie a band of buttered paper round at the top, and place it in a cool place until the mixture is ready. 1 lace the yolks of fourteen eggs in a basin, with one pound of sugai (upon which you have rubbed the rind of two lemons pre- vious to pounding), beat well together with a wooden spoon until nearly white, then whip the whites of the eggs very stiff, add them to the yolks and sugar, with six ounces of flour and six ounces of potato-flour; mix the whole lightly, but well together, and fill the mould rather more than three parts full, place°it in a very moderate oven one hour, keeping the oven-door shut; then try when done, as directed in No. 931; if done, take off the paper and turn it out upon a sieve until quite cold. The above mix- ture, being more delicate than No. 931, would not do so well for