502 SOYER’S CHARITABLE COOKERY, wide, in which a hole is cut, and therein is placed a quart iron white enamelled basin, with a metal spoon attached thereto by a neat chain: there are one hundred of these, and this table forms the outer boundary ot the kitchen, leaving a space of two feet six inches between it and the wall. Inside of the table are fastened tin water-cases, at the distance of ten feet apart,, con- taining a sponge, &c., to clean out the soup basins. Round the two supports of the roof are circular tin boxes for the condiments. Seven feet from the ground at each corner, is placed a safe, five feet square and seven feet high, with sides of wire, for ventilation, which contains respectively, meat, vege- tables, grain, and condiments. At the same elevation as the safes are sixteen butts, containing 1792 gallons of water. At the entrance, in the centre, is the weighing machine. The fire being lighted, a certain quantity of fat or dripping is placed in the glaze-pan, and in the soup-pans the farinaceous ingredients, or thickening, along with the water. As soon as the fat is melted in the glaze-pan, the vegetables, cut into thin slices, or dice, are placed therein; after the lapse of ten minutes the meat, which has been previously cut into small pieces, is added, and allowed gradually to fry until the juice is extracted, and a good glaze formed, which will be in about thirty-five minutes. The condiments are then added, and the glaze is removed, and distributed equally in the bain marie pans; it is boiled for twenty minutes, and the soup or food is complete: this is the time occupied in making the soup, when such farinaceous ingre- dients as flour, oatmeal, and rice or barley, previously soaked, are employed; but peas, Indian corn meal, and many other ingredients, will take longer boiling. It is then ready to be removed by ladles, into the basins in the surrounding tables. Outside the tent is a zigzag passage capable of containing one hundred persons in a small space in the open air;* at the en- trance is a check clerk, and an indicator, or machine which numbers every person that passes; and on the other side is a bread and biscuit room, where those who have partaken of the soup and are departing, receive on passing a quarter of a pound of bread or savory biscuit; as I prefer giving it then instead of * I do this in order to prevent the crowding together of the poor, which causes the propagation of infectious diseases.