THE DINNER-TABLE. 898 their carriages, which were waiting, and right glad indeed was I when ours was announced. This all happened, my dear Eloise, not from meanness; for if money could have purchased it nothing would have been wanting, but solely from want of management; and every one should think before they invite their friends to partake of their hospitality if they know how to entertain them. Money of course will provide delicacies of all kinds, but to know how to dis- pose of those delicacies to the best advantage, that your friends may appre- ciate them, is what is sadly wanting in more than one house I visit. A very excellent remark is made in this week’s Punch* by Mr. Brown, in his Letters to a Young Man about town on the subject of great and little dinners. He says : “ Properly considered, the quality of the dinner is twice blest; it blesses him that gives, and him that takes ; a dinner with friend- liness is the best of all friendly meetings—a pompous entertainment, where no love is, is the least satisfactory.” Our dinner on which you compliment me so much, we sat down twelve, for although the room and table would accommodate more, yet as my service of plate is for that number, and the arrangements of the kitchen are limited, that is the number I prefer, besides beyond which the conversation becomes partial, which is the bane of a dinner-table. You know we have no regular man-servant, but for these occasions I hire two, and place one on each side the table, and they each have their own side table with a change of every- thing that is required. The first thing to be looked to is the lights: these ought to be so placed as not to intercept the view of any person at the table, but at the same time they ought to be enough to show everything off to ad- vantage ; I prefer removing some of the lights from the table to the sideboard when the cloth is removed, as the light after dinner ought to be more sub- dued. In laying the cloth, we place it over the baize and remove it after dinner, as Mr. B. says he likes to see the mahogany, for when he asks a City friend to come and put his feet under his mahogany, it looks rather foolish if he never sees it. I have, as you know, my table rather wide, that is, six feet, and I generally place a vase of flowers in the centre, as I think their freshness and odour add greatly to the appearance of the table, and admit a flanc on each side. We prefer the old English plan of taking the top and bottom of the table instead of I and Mr. B. being together at the side. The cloth being laid with its proper side uppermost, I order a napkin, two knives, two prongs, two tablespoons, and two wine glasses to be placed to each person, a saltcellar between every other, that being a condiment which every one uses, though often wrongly ; the cruet-frames and other requisites are kept on the sideboards. I then have the fish and soup served together. •July, 1849.