DESSERT. 385 sugar, and put it by in a basin; in a stew-pan have the yolks of twelve eggs, with which mix by degrees a pint and a half of milk, stir over the fire until it becomes thickish, adhering to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tammy, and when cold add the juice from the strawberries, and three glasses of maraschino * freeze it as directed (No. 905), adding a pint of whipped cream when half frozen and sufficiently prepared; cochineal, to give it a strawberry colour, if approved of. 913. MARMALADE OF APPLE.—Peel and cut thirty apples in slices, taking out the cores, and, if for preserving, ta every pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound of brokei sugar (but if for immediate use, half a pound would be quiti sufficient), place the whole in a large preserving-pan, with half a spoonful of powdered cinnamon and the rind of a lemon chopped very fine, set the pan over a sharp fire, stirring it occasionally until boiling, when keep stirring until becoming rather thick; it is then done: if for immediate use, a smaller quantity would be sufficient, which put by in a basin until cold; but if to keep any time, put it in jars, which cover over with paper, and tie down until wanted. 914. MARMALADE OF APRICOTS.—Stone about eight pounds of ripe fleshy apricots, break the stones, and blanch and skin the kernels, which with the apricots put into a preserving- pan, add six pounds of sugar and place it over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally until boiling, when keep stirring until be- coming rather thick, take it oft, put it in jars, and when cold tie1 paper over, and put by until ready for use. 915. QUINCE JAM PUREE.—Procure a sieve of fine ripe quinces, which peel and cut in four, taking out the cores, place them in a large preserving-pan and cover with cold water; set upon the fire, and when boiling and tender to the touch, place them in a large sieve to drain one hour, pass them through a tammy, then have ready a corresponding weight of sugar boiled to the sixth degree (No. 903) in the preserving-pan, to which add the puree of quinces, keep stirring over the fire till forming thin sheets, drop a little upon the cover of a stewpan, if it sets? quickly take it from the fire, put it in small jars, and let remain a day until quite cold, when tie them down, and put by until wanted. / J 916. APRICOT MARMALADE JAM.—Procure a quart- C «