BEVERAGES FOR EVENING PARTIES. 402 reserved and cautious disposition : hence the reason why the pleasures of a Soiree are not felt until after supper. For these I am a great advocate, though not to the extravagant and outr6 manner so many are given at the present day. Of course in the way most ladie3 are now educated, they would rather he attending to the adornment of their persons for the occasion than to the entertainment and amusement of their guests. Those who can afford it, are quite right to patronise a first-rate confectioner, and thus save' them- selves the trouble ; but how many that cannot afford to do the same thing, and make a bargain for a bad supper, by which they gain but little, and cause the guests great disgust, instead of preparing it at home, and ordering a few good things which would look and eat well. There are a variety of drinks which could be made at a moderate expense, good and wholesome, and infinitely better than bad Marsala, which you are often obliged to par- take of. I will enclose you a few receipts for them, and some bills of fare for suppers for small soirees, not such as described in Mr. Pips his Diary a few’ weeks since. BEVERAGES FOR EVENING PARTIES. 951. LEMONADE.—Peel six lemons free from pith, cut the peel up in small pieces, and put them with two cloves into a bottle with half a pint of hot water, and place it in a bain-marie, or stewpan, with boiling water, and let it stand by the side of the fire for one or two hours, taking care it does not boil; remove it and let it remain until cold; then take half a pint of lemon- juice, half a pint of capillaire—if none, use sugar, that will make the same quantity of syrup—to which add a few drops of orange- flower water; add the infusion of the rind, stir well together, and add two quarts of cold water. The acidity of some lemons is greater than others, in which case, and also if using lime juice, more capillaire must be used. 952. COLD PUNCH.—Proceed as above for lemonade, but add one pint of capillaire to half a pint of lemon juice, one pint of pale brandy, one pint of pale rum, one tablespoonful of arrack, and five quarts of cold water; let it remain some time before it is decantered. 953. PORT WINE NEGUS.—Take one quart of new port wine, of a fruity character, one tablespoonful of spirit of cloves, one teacupful of sugar, one lemon sliced, half a nutmeg grate , pour over these two quarts ot boiling water.