295 SECOND COURSE. 626. WOODCOCK (la Bccasse).—This is a most delicious bird when well cooked; they must not be kept too long; they are fit for cooking when they become black between the legs, and the feathers are rather loose; truss them with the legs twisted at the knuckles, and the feet pressing upon the thighs, bring the pinion of the wing to the thigh, having previously skinned the neck and head; bring the beak round under the wing, which pass through the pinions of the wings and thighs. Place four on a skewer, tie them on a spit, and roast before a sharp fire from ten to fifteen minutes, placing toast under to catch the trail; when done, serve on the toast and a very little gravy: they may also be barded with thin slices of bacon over the breast, and served with a sauce offumet de gibier. 621. SNIPES.—Of these we have the Great or Solitary Snipe, (la grande Becassine); the Common Snipe, Snite, or Heather Bleater, (la Becassine); the Jack Snipe, Judcock, Jet- cock, or Gid, (la petite Becassine). The last is the best eating, and the hen better than the cock, although that is generally sent as a present from its beautiful plumage. They are dressed in every respect like "W oodcocks; and from seven to ten minutes is sufficient. They may likewise be fried in plenty of oil, and served with sauces Nos. 136, 148. 623. LARKS (VAlouette).—They are best in winter, when very fat; they are roasted plain, or with a thin slice of bacon and a leaf of celery tied over them; they require about eight minutes, and served with a little gravy and bread-crumbs; they are also used in pies (see Pigeon Pie); and may be dressed like snipes. . QUAIL (la Caille).—Should be killed at least forty- eight hours before they are wanted; they should then be plucked, singed, drawn, and trussed by cutting off the wings at the first pinion, leaving the feet, and fixing the pinion and the wings with a very small skewer; cover the breast with vine leaves and a slice of fat bacon, and run a skewer through the pinions and thighs of each: tie on a spit and roast for ten to twelve minutes before a sharp fire. They should be served a nice gold colour in a disn with a little gravy; they may also be trussed as above, and put into a pig’s caul, and roasted, and served with either sauces Nos. 146, 181. 1,i,6l30' ?2°T’ KI?UTE> OK KNOUT (U Canut).—This little bird is of the snipe kind, and is generally caught in nets; they