THE SEPTUAGENARIAN EPICURE. 425 but few people, and the flavour of tbe meat is not so good as when served this way. Necks and Loins : the bones should be severed by a small meat saw, and not a chopper, and the bone cut through when serving, and carve slanting. Haunches are usually carved by making a cut near the knuckle, and cutting a slice from that through the loin ; but by a plan I have adopted, I find that the meat eats better, and the joint goes farther. I carve it like the leg and saddle—that is, I cut a slice out of the leg part and a slice from the loin, and serve together. This is more economical, but would not do for venison. Lamb.—For Leg and Shoulders, proceed as for Mutton, The ribs, when well prepared and the bones properly separated, carve into cutlets, and serve with a- piece of the brisket. Quarter of Lamb : the ribs should be sawed through, and the bones dis- jointed previous to cooking. The shoulder should be then nicely removed, the seasoning added; then divide the ribs and serve one part of the brisket to each person. Pork : proceed like the Mutton. In carving a Ham, remove a thick slice, of about one inch, flat cut slant- ways from the knuckle-end—a Tongue, begin three inches from the tip, and ■cut thin slanting slices. LETTER No. XXVI. THE SEPTUAGENARIAN EPICURE. Mr DEAR Edoise,—Having now arrived at the conclusion of our labours, during which you have in many instances thought me rather severe, and perhaps too exigeant in my remarks, especially about the selection, pre- paration, and cooking of food in general, which even to the last I must main- tain, that for want of judgment and a little care, the greatest part of the nutrition of our aliments is often destroyed, which constitutes a considerable waste, being of no good to any one, but an evil to everybody ; and when you consider the monstrous quantity of food our fragile bodies consume in this sublunary sphere during the course of our life, the truth of my observation will be more apparent, and make you agree with me that in every instance people ought really to devote more time, care, and personal attention to their daily subsistence, it being the most expensive department through life of human luxury. I shall, for example, give you a slight and correct idea of it, which I am confident you never before conceived. For this I shall propose to take seventy years of the life of an epicure, beyond which ace many o" that class of “bon vivants” arrive, and even above eighty, still in the full enjoyment of degustation, &c. (for example, Talleyrand, Cambaceres, Lord beiton, &c.); it the first of the said epicures, when entering on the tenth