ENTREES. 253 432. EXCELLENT SAUSAGE CAKES.—Chop some lean pork very fine, having previously detached all the skin and bone and to every pound of meat add three quarters of a pound of fat bacon, half an ounce of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, the quarter of a nutmeg grated, six young green chopped onions, and a little chopped parsley; when the vvhole is well chopped, put into a mortar and pound well, finishing. with three eggs; then have ready a pig’s caul, which cut into pieces large enough to fold a piece of the above preparation the size of an egg, which wrap up, keeping the shape of an egg, but rather flattened, and broil very gently over a moderate fire. 483. PIGS’ FEET.—Procure six pigs’ feet nicely salted, which boil in water, to which you have added a few vegetables, until well done, cut each one in halves, take out the long bone, have some sausage-meat as in the last, and a pigs caul, which cut into pieces each large enough to fold half a foot, well sur- rounded with sausage-meat; when well wrapped up broil slowdy half an hour over a moderate fire, and serve. Or, when the pigs’ feet are well broiled, egg over, and throw them into some grated crust of bread, with which you have mixed a little parsley, broil a nice colour, and serve with a little plain gravy. This is called a la Ste. Menehould. 484. PIGS’ KIDNEYS.—Cut them open lengthwise, season well with pepper and salt, egg over with a paste brush, dip into bread crumbs, with which you have mixed some chopped parsley and eschalot, run a skewer through to keep them open, and broil for about a quarter of an hour over a good fire; when done, place them upon a dish, have ready an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed the juice of a lemon, a little pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of French or common mustard; place a piece upon each of the kidneys, place in the oven for one minute, and serve. Pigs’ kidneys may also be sauted as directed for ox kidneys. DISHES FROM THE REMAINS OF PORK. 485. HASHED PORK.—Put two spoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan, with a wineglassful of vinegar, two cloves, a blade of mace, and a bay-leaf; reduce to half, take out the spice and bay-leaf, add half a pint of broth or water, cut some