SAUTEING. 72 pan and turning the sole over and over, for you are then almost certain of sending the grease up to the table, where it is not wanted. When the fat is not used, it should be emptied, whilst hot, through a sieve, into an earthen pipkin, and covered with paper to prevent the dust going in it. For the purpose of frying, an iron wire-basket, with a handle, is used, in which the object to be cooked is placed, and thuB inserted in the liquid. The cost of this instrument is trifling. SAUTEING.—You will perceive, dearest, by the following, that the word fried is often wrongly used in cookery instead of the word saute, which pro- cess is totally different, and produces quite another effect on food. Saute means anything cooked in a very small quantity of butter, oil, lard, or fat, on one side of the article at a time, whilst the other requires about a hundred times more of the above-named materials to cook properly. You will see, in these remarks, that it is not flying a pancake, omelette, or still less a chop, steak, or cutlet, but that they are sauteed ; and how to explain that word, to use it instead of the misapplied word fly, puzzles me considerably, as I am quite ignorant of its origin as regards its application to cookery. All the researches I have made in English and French Dictionaries and Encyclo- paedias have not enlightened me in the least on the subject. In French, it means to jump, hop, skip, as understood by boys at school, or by the grass- hopper tribe, called in French sauterelles, from the word sauter, to jump. I well remember at our school we had a French emigre for a dancing-master, who used to get into a passion when we did not dance to his professional taste; and used to say, shaking his powdered wig, holding his fiddle in one hand and his bow in the other, making all kinds of grimaces and con- tortions, which reminded me of the principal figure in the group of the Eaocoon,—“Mon Dieu, mon Dieu, young miss, vous sautez tres bien, mais vous dansez fort malwhich means, “You jump very well, but you dance very badly.” It also reminds me of an expression made by a friend of our* from Havre, who was on a visit to us last November. Seeing some Guy Fawkes carried about the street, he asked me what it meant; when I told him, that in the year 1605 an attempt was made to destroy by gunpowder the king and parliament iu the House of Lords, as well as - ■- Oui, oui, madam ; I know—I remember reading of it in English history ! it was that little brute qui a voulut faire sauler le Parlement,” replied he very quickly. “ Sauter, smter," I said; “ no, sir, not saute—blow up.” “ Oui, oui, madame, I know—it is the same thing.” “Same thing!” replied I.