75 CONDIMENTS. species of the human race with which we are acquainted upon the face of the globe, it i3 partaken of one way or the other; and although its use is. beneficial, yet, if partaken of too largely, it causes disease and death. Its composition consists of two elementary principles, earth and water, and is chemically known as muriate of soda, being a combination of soda and muriatic acid. Its use as an antiseptic, and as a condiment, are too well known to be repeated here. Rock Salt is the unpurified salt, as dug from the mines. This is purified by boiling, &c., and is crystallized by heat. Bay Salt is the coarse large crystal salt, taking its name from the salt that formerly used to be made in pits by the overflow or letting in of the sea at the head of Bays, and which was evaporated by the heat of the sun. Almost all the fish cured in France at the present day is by this kind of salt, the duty upon foreign salt being so high. PEPPER, so extensively used at present in Europe, may be said to be but a modem custom. We find in ancient MS. receipts, still extant, that, previous to the introduction of pepper, many plants, natives of England, such as saffron, &c., were used, and which even continued down to modem times, until this West Indian fruit became more general and easy of attainment.* The plant itself is a climbing one (piper nigrum,) and exceedbgly pretty when the fruit is upon it. The difference between the two peppers, black and white, is, that the berry is gathered with the skin or pulp around the stone, and that which is intended for black pepper is allowed to remain on, whilst that intended for white pepper is blanched and rubbed until the skin comes off. There is no doubt but that in the West, where hot dishes are so much in vogue, and where large quantities of this spice are employed, that there would be found some difference in the flavour—the black being more acrid than the white. In all dark sauces use the black pepper. LONG PEPPER, the fruit of the piper longnm, a plant very similar to the former, and, if possible, it has a more aromatic flavour than the black pepper. call It;iai8lnfIar ci^cumstance that this very small fruit should be the J. °f Enf'™d Possessing one of the largest portions of her dominions In he reign of Elizabeth, and during the war with Spain, pepper, which had then become an article of necessity, rose to an exUv^^cTand to am it cheaper the Queen granted Letters Patent to certain merchants Company ^ ^ °rigin °f the P"»«* East India