85 CONDIMENTS. and allowing them to ferment until they become acid : some spices are then mixed with them—they are then bottled for use ; the older it is, the better it becomes. That which is made in the Vale of Cashmere is considered the best; it is endeavoured to be imitated in this countiy, with little success. CURRl -POWDER is another of those Indian condiments which have latterly come so much into use, and it is only to be regretted that it is not cheaper than it is, so as to allow it to be more generally used, as it is one of those stimulating condiments which would be invaluable to the poor ; its use would prevent the habit of taking other stimulants which produce intoxication. LEMON is the fruit of a tree a native of the South of Europe and the Indies; it is a most valuable production, not only in the way it is used in cookery, but to the health of the human race. Its juice, when diluted with water, and sweetened, is one of the most refreshing and wholesome, that it is possible to take. The peel contains an essential oil, which imparts a strong pungent flavour to those dishes to which it is added. The true flavour of this fruit can only be had when fresh and ripe. At the time of Henry VIII., this fruit was a great rarity, and used to be partaken of at dessert with a quantity of sugar mixed with it. The LIME is a species of lemon, the juice of which is more acid. The CITRON is also another species; the juice is sweeter. VINEGAR derives its name from the French vin aigre, or sour .vine, and !s known in chemistry as acetic acid. This antiseptic liquor can be produced from all herbs, plants, vegetables, and fruits, which produce sugar, and even that singular production of nature known as honey, and of which their juices will go into fermentation. Their juices, when first expressed, are called wine, or syrup ; they undergo a fermentation known as the vinous, after which, when exposed to a certain degree of heat, enter into the acetous fermentation, and produce that acid pungent liquor known as vinegar. Of late years, it has also been produced by the distillation of woo , more particularly oak, and known as pyroligneous acid, which is intensely acid, and highly stimulating. When employed in cookeiy it 1°)'' ,®U3ed V6ry Judici°usly, and with great care. The best vinegar is f,C°ntainS the least viable matter, such as colouring, &c. and winch has the strongest acid taste, without being hot