318 SAVOURY DISHES. Prawns are best when very red and have no spawn under the tail. Cray, or Crawfish.—There are two kinds, the sea and fresh water; in habits they are similar to the lobster. The sea crayfish arrive at times to an amazing size ; they are not considered so delicate eating as a lobster. The river fish is much liked for its bitter flavour, but that depends greatly on the river whence it is taken; the tail is the only part which should be eaten, except when the stomach is ordered by a medical man ; it seems of late years to have been disused. It appears to have been extensively used by the Romans, who had ponds on purpose for feeding them. / Crabs.—Of these there are innumerable species on the shores of Great Britain ; but the only one fit to eat is the oblong crab, and this ought to be large and the claws full; it must not be partaken of largely, as it is exceed- ingly indigestible. They should be chosen when the joints and the eyes are bright and stiff, and there is an agreeable smell from them. The Escalop is a fish very little used, but is exceedingly fine ; it is in season at the same time as the oyster. It can be cooked in a variety of ways, but previous to doing which, it should be kept some time in salt water, so that it may free itself from any sand that may be in it; when opened, all the beard should be removed, and only the white, red, and black parts used ; it may be cooked in every way like oysters, and is excellent with matelote sauce of any kind of fish. Razor Shellfish or Solen Fish.—This is the aulo of the Romans, and a beautiful eating fish. It is seldom we get it in London, being used by the fisherman for bait. It should also be cooked like oysters, and makes most excellent and strengthening soup. Clams are a species of cockle, only found in Devonshire, Cornwall, parts of Wales, and on the west coast of Ireland and Scotland. It is much superior ' in flavour to the oyster, and if eaten raw, should be about the same size, but if larger, they should be made into soup, or cooked in the same way as the oyster. Whelks have become plentiful in London, and are an exceedingly whole- some fish. They are cooked also like the oyster. Muscles are fish I do not much approve of; their quality depends greatly on the rock or places from whence they are taken, and their flavour on the object to which they attach themselves or the plants that grow around them ; the weed should be removed, and the small crabs taken out; but as they are excellent bait for whiting, haddocks, &c., I would rather use them for that purpose, and use other shellfish equally as plentiful for my dishes. OYSTERS.—Of these there are several kinds, but which I will write to you more fully about in a future letter, when we come to the pickling and preserving ; those we have to do with at the present moment are the small kind for eating raw, and the large for cooking. Of the former, the native, which we receive from Milton, Colchester, and the vicinity of those places,