CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. 410 beyond mediocrity, and to possess genius ; for, from the liberality of England and her institutions, the genius of the world has sought it for a home, and in it may be found a versatility of talent unknown in any other country, and no child should be educated for a profession unless showing a decided predi- lection for it, which predilection may always be known at an early age, when its innate mind shows itself unwarped by education. Look at the advertise- ments which appear in the public press every day !—Young girls offering themselves as governesses, to be remunerated by their board; whereas, if they had been educated with a knowledge of the duties of the household, they would have made good ladies’ maids or housekeepers, or useful wives to tradesmen. Mrs. L.—It seems, my dear, that one of the maids is engaged upon some other work on Wednesday; you have not told me for what purpose. Mrs. B.—I have not, and I know you will laugh at me when I tell you that we wash at home. Mrs. L.—Wash at home ! my dear Mrs. B. ! im-pos-si-ble! where? how?— Mrs. B.—It is a fact, I have done so for some time past; as regards the where and how, to morrow being Wednesday, you shall see ; but I will now take and show you the laundry, and tell you why I did it. We formerly sent our washing to a large laundry some little distance from London, where it was beautifully got up ; but noticing one day some of my cambric handker- chiefs with the name in marking ink nearly obliterated; and the place where it was very thin, I could not account for it j on further examination of the sheets and pillow-cases I found that the place where the mark ought to have been was a long hole, exactly as if it had been cut out. I was certain it could not have been done on purpose, and it occurred to me that it might be some preparation used in the washing, which had an effect on the caustic or acid used in the ink which rotted the linen round it. It being a fine day, I drove off at once to the laundry, and a most excellent establishment it is; and I must say that the proprietress had no idea of the harm she was doing in using the kind of alkali she did, but this I was also convinced of, that she would never be able to clean the variety of articles sent to her without it. But I have since found out that it was the peculiar nature of the ink which was used. On my way home I reflected seriously on the matter, and happening to pass the baths and washhouses in the New Road, I stopped and examined them, which gave me those ideas I have since carried out.—In regard to the choice of the day, it is one that ever since I have been married, Mr. B. con- sidered his own in dining out or going to the play, and it is very rarely either of us dine at home on that day. One of the maids take it in turns along with a charwoman, and they manage to get all washed and mangled on the Wednesday, and the char- woman irons alone on the Thursday.