SAVOURY DISHES. 304 a^ain covered with the remainder of the forcemeat, put two pats of butter and a hay-leaf upon the top, then placed on the cover, fixin" it down with a band of common paste laid inside upon the rim of the tureen, and baked it three hours in a moderate oven, and when I opened it about a week afterwards it was most deli- cious; when served to table the cover should be taken off, the bay-leaf removed, and a few fresh water-cresses laid over. Ail sorts of game, poultry, and meat, I have done in the same way; it is quickly done, and very good and economical, as it will keep a long time. 657. GALANTINES.—Having twice failed in the attempt to make this difficult dish, I was about to relinquish the idea, but having received a small turkey two months back, I could not resist making another trial, and in which I succeeded. It is a rather expensive, but beautiful dish for supper. After having plucked, and singed off the hairs with a piece of lighted paper, I laid it breast downwards upon a clean cloth, and with a sharp-pointed knife, boned it as follows : first I passed the point of the knife through the skin/which I cut open straight down the back-bone, proceeding to clear the flesh from the bones of the carcase until I came to the breast-bone, disjointing the wings and legs, I very carefully detached the breast-bone from the flesh without cutting through the skin. I then removed the carcase with the interior of the turkey. I afterwards proceeded to take the bones from the legs and wings, which is not quite so difficult: for the legs, I scrape the first bone free from the flesh to below the first joint, and chop it off; then cut the flesh round over the knuckle and pull the foot, when the remainder of the bone and sinews will come away together ; lastly, I cut off the wings at the first pinion, and the remaining bone is quickly scraped away. I can assure you I found this quite a job the first and second time, ut it is very essential to learn, as all kinds of poultry and game are boned in the same manner, and to this description all references upon the subject must be made throughout our little work. Have prepared four pounds of forcemeat, as for pies, I * . n 1-1 1 P i 1 ...1. ! nl. nf a! I Cl XWexv.- - a^° some long strips of veal, ham, and fat bacon, which well season with salt, pepper, and chopped eschalots ; put a layer ot the forcemeat an inch thick down the bird, leaving two inches upon each side uncovered, then some of the veal, bacon, and cooked ham alternately, which again cover with forcemeat, but not ex- ceeding half an inch in thickness (as too much iorcemeat between the meat would spoil its appearance), proceeding thus until suffi- cient to fill the skin of the bird, when pull over the flaps, and sew it up tightly with a packing needle and small string, and tie