ENTREES. 256 and bread-crumb each; insert a small bone at the small end, saute it in fat, oil, lard, or butter, give it ten minutes on a slow fire till a nice brown colour, dish and serve with dcmi-glaze sauce, in which you have put a spoonful of Harvey’s, and serve with any brown or white sauce of stewed vegetables you like. Any kind of meat may be used. 469. CUTLETS A LA VICTIMS, or Victimized Cutlets. —Here, ma lelle amie, is a terrific title for a receipt; but do not fear it, as the time of the Inquisition is past, and you are not likely to become one in par- taking of it. I do not recommend it to you on the score of economy, as it is the tip-top of extravagance, but forward it as a curiosity; and also in case similar circumstances should happen which caused its invention, which I must tell you was done by a culinary artist of Louis XVIII., of France, at the palace of the Tuileries, and first partaken of by that intellectual monarch and gourmet, who, at the end of his stormy reign, through a serious illness, was completely paralysed, and, at the same time, the functionary organs of his digestion were much out of order; being a man of great corpulence, and a great admirer of the festive board, much food was required to satisfy his royal appe- tite : and the difficulty which his physicians experienced was to supply thjs want of food in the smallest compass. The head-cook, on being consulted, begged a few hours for reflection before he could give an answer to so important a question, as nothing but mutton entirely deprived of fat was to compose his Majesty’s meal. Alter profound study by the chief and his satellites, a voice was heard from the larder, which was a considerable distance from the kitchen, crying, “I have found it, I have found it.” It was that of a young man of the name of Alphonse Pottier, who, in saying so, made his appearance in the kitchen with three beautiful mutton cutlets, tastefully trimmed and tied toge- ther ; he then, with a small skewer, fastened them to a spit, and placed them, to the astonishment of all present, close to the bars of the grate: two of the cutlets soon got brown (observe, not a word was to be said until the trial was made), from brown they soon turned black; every one gazed at each other in astonishment, whilst Pottier, with quite a composed countenance, terminated his scientific experiment, took them off the spit, drew the skewer out, cut the string, threw the two burnt cutlets away, and merely served the middle one, which seems to have received all the nutriment of the other two; it was served and greatly approved of by the physicians, as well as by the gourmet potentate, who, in consequence of two being sacrificed for one, named it, “Cutlet a la Victime,” and often afterwards used to partake of them when in the enjoyment of health. Cut three cutlets from the neck of mutton, about half an inch thick, trim one very nicely, free from tat, leave the other two as