78 CONDIMENTS. Durham is generally considered the best. Its name originated from the circum- stance of that being the first place where mustard was ground like that in use at the present day. Mustard is a condiment easily adulterated; and particular care should be used in selecting of it. There is likewise the seed of a plant which we use greatly in salads, but which differs altogether from the above. The plant is known as the sinapis alba. The seed produces a white powder, and not so strong as the yellow. The moderate use of mustard is good, particularly to feeble stomachs; and, if more frequently used than it is, would obviate the necessity of using the clause cajf6 to assist the feeble digestion. ONIONS, a bulbous root, so much used in cookery, is a native of this country, but grows to a large size in warm and moist climates; but the pungent flavour and aroma is not then so great. By some it is eaten in a raw state; and if partaken of freely, its effects pervade the whole system, and the person who uses them may be known at some distance, from the peculiar odour which belongs to the root. Its moderate use is wholesome, being nourishing, and correcting the acidity of the bile. It is also good against many diseases of the skin; but should never be partaken of too freely by weak stomachs. There are several sorts. The common, called the allium, cepa; the Gaelic, allium stavium; the Shalot, allium, ascaloni- cum; the Leek, the allium porrum; the Rocambole, the allium scordo- prasum ; the Chive, the allium chaenopraswm. The manner of using them, and the way in which they are employed, are given in the various receipts. Onions have been used in cookery from a very early period ; and in Spain and Portugal form the principal food of the lower classes—being, from the nature of the climate, much milder than in this country. The next articles among the condiments are the herbs ; amongst these, MARJORAM is that most in use ; it is a herb which contains a large quan- tity of what may be called essential oil, which is extracted in cooking, and imparts its flavour to the viands in which it may be used. There are several • kinds of marjoram in use, but that known as the pot marjoram, origanum onites, when well cultivated, is the best for general use : there is the sweet marjoram, origanum marjorana; the winter sweet marjoram, origanum heracloticum; and the common marjoram, origanum vvlgare, which grows wild in this country. The essence of this herb may be used in cookery; but the more common plan is to dry it for use, but should be used fresh when attainable.