DESSERT. 387 a sieve, catching the liquor in a basin, which afterwards pass through a new and very clean jelly-bag; to every pint of liquor have one pound of sugar, which boil to the sixth degree as directed (No. 903); when, whilst hot, mix in the liquor from the apple with a very clean skimmer; to prevent it boiling over keep it skimmed, lift the skimmer occasionally from the pan, and when the jelly falls from it in thin sheets, take it up and fill the pots as before; the smaller pots are the best adapted for jellies. 921. JELLY OF QUINCE.—Proceed exactly as directed in the last, but using quinces instead of apples. 922. SWEETMEAT OF CURRANT JELLY.—Put half a sieve of tine red currants in a large stewpan, with a gallon of white currants, and a gallon of raspberries, add a quart of water, place over the fire, keep stirring, to prevent them sticking to the bottom, and let boil about ten minutes, pour them into a sieve to drain, catching the juice in a basin and draining the currants quite dry, pass the juice whilst hot through a clean jelly-bag, have a pound of sugar to every pint of juice, and proceed precisely as directed for apple jelly. Should you have time to pick the currants from the stalks previous to boiling, you would lose that bitter flavour, and have less difficulty in making your jelly clear. 923. CURRANT JELLY is made precisely as in the last, omitting the raspberries, the difference being in the use; the last being adapted for the garnishing of pastry, and this to use for sauces, or to serve with hares, venison, or any other meat, where required. A more simple method of making currant jelly is to rub the fruit through a sieve, and afterwards squeeze it through a fine linen cloth, put it into a preserving-pan with, to every pint of juice, three-quarters of a pound of white sugar; place over a sharp liie, stirring occasionally with a skimmer, keeping it well skimmed; it is done when dropping in sheets as before from the skimmer. For my own part, I prefer this last simple method, being quicker done, and retaining more of the full freshness of the fruit. It is not my intention to give a description of the various methods of pre- serving fruits, which belong to the confectionery department; that i’shall do in the Letters from the Farm ; I have, however, given the few foregoine receipts, they being required for reference from various parts of our work, c c 2