332 VEGETABLES. sometimes lunches at a house in the city where the proprietor grows that sort in particular for the use of his customers, and ne finds them better if he leaves them in the ground where they grow until -wanted, and he has about three days’ consumption taken up at a time. They are merely well washed, and put into a slow oven for about thirty minutes, or longer if large and served with a pat of butter in a plate. . 32. FRIED POTATOES.—The long kidney potato is the best tor this purpose; they should be washed and peeled, and cut into very thin slices, and thrown into boiling fat until a nice light brown colour; dish up very hot, throwing a little salt over. The remains of cold ones may be cut into slices and fried in the same way, or they may be dipped into batter, and fried like fritters. 733. MASHED POTATOES.—Steam and peel about ten fine potatoes for about thirty-five minutes, put them into a stew- pan or bowl, with two ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, a smaller spoonful of pepper, and half a pint of milk, and beat them very well up with a large fork, then add by degrees a gill of milk, and continue beating, and dish them lightly on a dish. Should you require to keep them warm, do so in a stewpan. I do not approve of putting them into moulds and then in the oven, as it makes them heavy. 734. POTATOES A LA MAiTRE-D’HOTEL. — With young potatoes they are excellent. Boil ten middle-sized ones cut in slices of a quarter of an inch thick, put in the stewpan half a pint of milk or the same of broth, a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a tablespoonful of fresh chopped parsley, then simmer on fire; when boiling, add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, stir well for a few minutes; when each piece is well covered with the sauce, dish up, and high in the centre, as they must appear light. 735. LYONNAISE.—The remains of cold potatoes may be used thus:—Put three ounces of butter in an omelette pan, in which you fry rather white three sliced onions; put on the potatoes, cut in thin slices about the size of half a crown, and saute them now and then until they have a nice yellow colour; add a spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon, saute well that it should mix well together, dish and