372 REMOVES. very hot; a quarter of that quantity may of course he made. This is an excellent dish. 874. TURBAN OF ALMOND CAKE ICED.—This is a very good and useful second course remove. Make half a pound of puff paste; give it nine rolls, rolling it the last time to the thickness of a penny-piece, have ready blanched and chopped a pound of sweet almonds, which put in a basin with half a pound of powdered sugar and the whites of two eggs, or little more if required; spread it over the paste the thickness of a shilling, and with a knife cut the paste into pieces two inches and a half in length and nearly one in breadth, place them upon a baking-sheet, and bake nicely a very light brown colour, in a moderate oven; dress them on a stiff border of any kind ot stiff jam or marmalade, so as to form a large crown, according to the size you require it; then fill the interior with vanilla cream, or any other, iced, but not too hard, and bring it up to a point; the cake may be cut in any shape you fancy, but never make them too large. 875. TURBAN OF PASTRY.—Observe that any kind of pastry fourr6e, as No. 773, or meringue, No. 772, will, if dished as above, with iced cream, make a very nice remove. 876. CUSTARD FOR PUDDINGS.—Take one pint of jnilk, to which add the yolks of two eggs, and beat up, add a quarter of a pound of sugar, half a saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon and nutmeg, and a bay-leaf, bor mould puddings, the mould should be filled first with the bread, &c., and the custard added; should it be wanted alone in glasses, it must then be put into a saucepan on the fire until it nearly boils, keep stir- ring it well during the time. 877. BATTER FOR FRITTERS.—Put half a pound of flour into a basin, to which add half a pint of water, stir it gently with a wooden spoon till it forms a smooth batter; put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, which melt gently, then pour it gradually into the batter, and stir it; whisk thejwhite of two gggs verv firm, and mix lightly in the batter. Use vkeie in- dicated.