70 BRAISING—FRYING. volume ; it is one of those easy things which it is supposed everybody can do, no attention is paid to it, and therefore generally done badly. According to the way in which it is done, meat may be rendered hard and tough, or tender, lose or retain its flavour or nourishment. Great difference of opinion exists amongst medical men which are the easiest of digestion roasted or boiled meats. I say it is a subject quite impossible to decide, as it must depend upon the different constitutions and climate ; for we might as well say that the food of the Esquimaux is adapted for the native of Italy. STEWING ought to be the best understood, on account of its economy pieces of coarse meat, subjected to stewing, if properly done, become tender, as the gelatinous parts become partly dissolved: it should be done slowly, the pan partly uncovered, and frequently skimmed. Great cleanliness should be observed in all the vessels used for stewing. BRAISING is the next and most important part of the art of cooking, and, like the saute, belongs entirely to the French school from which it takes its name, braise being the remains of wood burnt in the oven, or live charcoal : this plan of cookery requires the action of the fire under and over the braising pan, which is air-tight, in order that the aromatic flavour arising from its contents may be imbibed by the meat or poultry, and give it that succulence so much esteemed by epicures. The braise is put on the cover, which in some cases, is made deep on purpose to hold it. Its origin is stated to be owing to a gastronomic society which was formerly in existence in Paris, whose object was to benefit and improve the art of cookery, and who offered a reward of a silver gridiron to any culinary artist who would discover a new mode of dressing a turkey. Although a gridiron was, no doubt, intended to be used, yet a young artist named La Gacque, warmed by the offer, directed his imagination to quite a different mode, and used the pan instead of the gridiron, and thus composed the braise, which was unanimously approved of by that scientific, gastronomic, and epicurean body, who awarded him the prize. The chief art in braising is to do it slowly, taking care that the ingredients are well-proportioned, receipts for which wiU be found in their proper place. FRYING.—Of all the apparently simple modes of cookery there is none more so than that of frying, but yet how rare to meet with it done properly. I believe it is to be attributed, in a great measure, to the idea that to do it well is expensive. I have therefore made a series of experiments upon a plan such as may be followed in every private house, and I am convinced that to