20 BREAKFASTS. the cook busily engaged making cocoa and most delicious coffee, but pre- paring the tea in a ridiculous fashion, the leaves of which were in an awful state of agitation, attempting as it were to escape from an earthen pot at the side of the fire, in which the delicious soup we had for dinner was made a few hours previously. (See Pot-au-Feu.) “ My dear girl,” said I (in French), “ what process do you call that of making tea? it never ought to be boiled.” “ I beg your pardon, Madame,” says she, “master and mistress like it well done, and it will be another short half hour before it is properly cooked (ce sera alors copieux).” “ You are decidedly wrong,” said I, “ and I shall be most happy to show you the way we make it in England.” “ Yes, I know what you mean, Madame,” replied she ; “ I used to make it that way before, but no one liked it, that is, to boil it one hour in a copper pan over a charcoal fire.” Upon which I retired, making a most comical grimace, to refrain from laughing at her still more ridiculous fashion. You must, however, observe, that this occurred nearly twelve years ago, and I have no doubt but a reform has taken place since then by the continual traffic of the English through that part of the country. I must say with resoect to ourselves, we do not make quite such a blunder respecting coffee, but still our middle-classes very seldom enjoy the aroma of that delicious beverage, which should be made as follows : Choose the coffee of a very nice brown colour, but not black (which would denote that it was burnt, and impart a bitter flavour) ; grind it at home, if possible, as you may then depend upon the quality; if ground in any quantity, keep it in a jar hermetically sealed. To make a pint, put two ounces into a stewpan, or small iron or tin saucepan, which set dry upon a moderate fire, stirring the coffee round with a wooden spoon continually until it is quite hot through, but not in the least burnt; should the fire be very fierce, wTann it by degrees, taking it off every now and then until hot (which would not be more than two minutes), then pour over a pint of boiling water, cover close, and let it stand by the side of the fire (but not to boil) for five minutes, strain it through a cloth or a piece of thick