SAVOURY DISHES. 310 with a clearish glaze, then add four gallons of -water and half a pound of salt; when boiling draw it to the comer of the stove, skim, and put in the head, the ears uppermost, and let simmer seven or eight hours, or according to the size and age of the pig ; but the better plan would be to try it with a trussing-needle ; if tender it is done; skim the stock, in which leave the head until half cold, when take it out, partly undo the cloths, and tie it again tighter if possible, and press it in a cover or upon a baking-sheet with three flat pieces of wood, one at each side, with a weight against them, and one upon the top between the ears, on which place a fourteen pounds weight, let it remain all night until quite cold, take it out of the cloths, detach the thread it was sewn up with, cut a piece an inch in thickness from behind the ears, (from which part it must be carved in as thin slices as possible,) it will have a marbled appearance ; trim the head a little, setting the ears in a proper position, glaze it .with a brownish glaze, form the eyes with a little lard and a few black currants round, and the tusks with paste, baking them ; have some very fresh tulips and roses, which stick tastefully in the ears and some around, but leaving space to carve ; garnish boldly with croutons, aspic, made from the stock clarified as directed (No. 659); the meat and the calf’s foot may be used for different dishes. See Receipts. The second one I had boiled plainer, merely a little salt and a lew vegetables; it was very good, but not so rich in flavoui as the other; thus saving expense and trouble. They should be eaten with the following sauce: 669. BOAR’S HEAD SAUCE.—Cut the rind (free from pith) of two Seville oranges into very thin strips half an inch in length, which blanch in boiling water, drain them upon a sieve, and put them into a basin, with a spoonful of mixed English mustard, four of currant jelly, a little pepper, salt, (mix well together,) and half a pint of good port wine. *670. SOYER’S BRAWN—Take a pig’s head and prepare it as receipt No. 668, have the feet and ears prepared the same way • when salt enough, which will be in about seven days, remove it drain it, and place it in a cloth with the skin outside, as boar s head, place the feet cut up in it with two pounds of sausage meat, and the tongue cut up, and then tie it up tight and boil for three hours or longer, until tender; allow it to get cold, then untie the cloth and serve. To make it larger, a couple of cow heels placed in the same pickle, boiled and cut up in small strips and boned may be added to the head. The above sauce with it is excellent. 671. FORCEMEAT.—You will find this receipt so useful, and so often in demand for made dishes, soups, fishes, entrees, &c., that I must beg of