400 THE DINNER-TABLE. being (lipped into it. They seem to be absolutely required, and I must say they form a delightful adjunct to the dinner-table. Mr. B.* has also introduced at our table, but only at Christmas, another city custom, which the gentlemen seem very much to like,—I cannot say so for the ladies ; it is what he calls the loving cup ; he has it placed before him when the cheese is put on ; and after filling the glass of the lady on each side of him, he rises and drinks to their health and the rest of the company, and then passes it to the gentleman on the left, who in like manner, fills the glass of the lady on his left, rises, drinks to her health and the company, and thus it goes round the table. Your husband, my dear Eloise, thought that the contents were exceedingly good ; or, as he expressed it, nectar fit for the gods, and would like to have the receipt—here it is as Mr. B. prepares it:— Loving Cup.—The cup holds two quarts : he places in it half a teacupful of capillaire ; if he has none he uses dissolved lump sugar, with a few drops of orange-flower water in it, one pint of brown sherry, one bottle of good Edinburgh ale, mixing these together, and a minute before placing on the table, adding one bottle of soda water, + stirring it well up till it froths, he then grates some nutmeg on the froth, and places a piece of toast in it, and sends it to the table with a napkin through the handle of the cup. I must say, since we have had this, it has produced some most interesting conversa- tion as regarded the antiquity of the custom, &c. In addition, Mr. B. bought the cup at a sale, and it is stated to have been drunk out of by Henry the Eighth : this of itself is a subject of conversation, and draws out the talents and conversational powers of our guests, and one in which ladies can join, as there is hardly one of our sex who has not read Miss Strickland’s “Queens of England.” You have often made the remark, that the time always appears short whilst we are at table ; this is, no doubt, from the animated conversa- tion which is kept up, for that is the real motive of meeting together, to enjoy the conversation of one another, to gain and impart information, and amuse ourselves with the wit and talent of those around us, and not for the sake of eating and drinking; yet without the assistance of both of these, the most sparkling wit would be as heavy as a bad souffle, and the brightest talent as dull as my looking-glass on a foggy day. In order to prolong the time, and to enjoy the gentlemen's society as much as possible, I do not have the dessert placed on the table until ten or twenty minutes after the cloth is removed ; this gives an opportunity for my guests to admire the beautiful Sevres dessert plates, containing views of different French chateaux ; this of course gives a subject for conversation to those who have visited them. In the dessert I generally introduce some new importa- * With regard to the wine, that is a matter I leave entirely to Mr. B., but his maxim is, that “the best is the cheapest.” •f Soyer’s nectar, instead of soda water, is an improvement.