276 ENTREES. and put into a stewpan, with two quarts of -water, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay leaves; let it simmer three hours at the corner of the fire, skimming oft'all the fat, then take out the meat and strain the broth into a basin; in another stewpan have a middling-sized onion (cut into small dice), with an ounce of butter, saute them rather brown, then add a good tablespoonful of curry powder, mix well, and pour in the broth, then add the meat, which let stew in the curry one hour longer, until the meat is very tender, and the sauce becomes rather thick; pour off as much fat as possible, season with a little salt and the juice of a lemon, which stir in very gently, take the meat out as whole as possible, dress them upon your dish, pour the sauce over and servej rice separately. 552. BREAST OF MUTTON CURRY—Cut up a breast of mutton, bones and all, into pieces about two inches in length and one in width, which put into a stew'pan with two quarts of water, to simmer for about two hours, when proceed precisely as directed in the last. 553. BREAST OF LAMB CURRY is made very similar to the preceding, and is considered a great treat to those who are fond of curries. Curry paste may be used to advantage, either by itself, or mixed equally with the powder. There being a great quantity of fat in the breast, great care should be taken to remove it from the curry every available opportunity. I always use Captain White’s curry paste. 554. LAMB’S HEAD CURRY.—Procure a Iamb’s head, which split in halves, break the bones at the nostrils, and put into lukewarm water an hour to disgorge, previously taking out the brains, which likewise disgorge in the water, then put the head into a stewpan well covered with water, let it boil two hours, when take it out, separate the bones from the flesh, which cut into small pieces. In another stewpan have a middling- sized onion cut into small dice, which set upon the fire, adding two ounces of butter, and saute them a light-brown colour, when add a tablespoonful of curry powder, and half that quantity of curry paste, mix well together, then put in the pieces of head with half a pint of broth, and stew gently for half an hour. Whilst the curry is stew-ing, take the brains from the water, and put them into a stewpan of boiling water, let simmer five minutes, after which chop very fine, and put them into a basin with a