397 THE DINNER-TABLE. LETTER No. XIX. THE DINNER-TABLE. Mr dear Er.oiSE,—I thank you for your kind compliment, but I have always been of opinion that the arrangements and serving of a dinner-table have as much to do with the happiness and pleasure of a party as the viands which are placed upon it; this I had a practical proof of last week. Sir. B. and myself were invited to dine with Mr. D., a city friend, at Balham Hill; I had before met Mrs. D. at an evening party at his partner’s, at Hackney, and knew but little of her. Dinner was served pretty punctually, only half an hour after time. On my entrance in the room my first glance at the table showed me that there was a want of savoir-faire in its management; the plate, very abundant and splendid, was of so yellow a cast that it looked as if it were plated, and the cut glass was exceedingly dim. My first surprise was that there were no napkins, the next the soup plates were quite cold, which I have found often the case in other houses; after being served with fish, and waiting until it was cold for the sauce to eat with it, I was rather sceptical how the rest of the dinner would progress. After the first, the second course made its ap- pearance, which was heavy and too abundant; the plain things were well done, but there was only one servant in the room for the whole party of four- teen, and from the strict formality of the table, it would have been a sacrilege to have handed your plate for any vegetables, or anything else you might require. There were four saltcellars, certainly very massive silver ones, at each corner of the table, and a beautiful cruet-frame in the centre; the hot dishes of this course, like the previous one, became cold and tasteless before being eaten, and during the time the servant was serving the champagne all the plates were empty ; in fact, it was a good dinner spoilt. The wine drank with less gofit than usual, and the long pauses between the courses made the formality appear still greater than it really was, and made you wish for the time to arrive for the cloth to be removed, which was not done, only the slips, a most awkward undertaking for one servant, and should never be practised unless having at least two. . •A-ljoufc l>alf an hour after the cloth was removed, and just as the conversa- tion was being thawed from the freezing it received at the dinner-table, Mrs. D. and the ladies withdrew, and for an hour and a half we had to bear the insipid conversation of the drawing-room, the hissing urn on the tea-table bearing a prominent part. Several messages were sent from time to time to the dining-room that coffee was ready; and when at last the gentlemen came, wo had had quite wine enough, which caused them to receive sundry angry •looks from their wives who were present, and who were glad to get them into