375 DESSERT* I thought more serviceable ; hut there must be some cause for him to have used it so continually, as he is such a very clean and precise man in all his manipulations, even to the making of a sugar stick. Since, I have tried it in a common stewpan, which has answered very well; and knowing by ex perience that your culinary laboratory is still in its innocent infancy, you might be prevented from making an immediate experiment by waiting till you could get one; so you may use that three-pint size stewpan, which I lent you for a pattern about three weeks ago, and after which I shall feel extremely gratified by its reappearance on my kitchen shelf at No. 5, being out of the middle of the row, for every time I enter my kitchen it puts me in mind of a very pretty woman minus one of her front teeth. Excuse me if I claim it of you, but I wish to teach you punctuality as well as economy. 878. COMPOTE OF WINTER PEARS, like the one our comical friend had.—To put an end to its long and hard existence, I would cut it into six or eight pieces leng hwise, peel and cut out the.cores, giving them a nice shape; then put them into a stewpan, witn a quarter of a pound of sugar, a gill of port wine, the thin rind of a lemon, a little cinnamon, and half a pint of water; let them simmer gently about an hour or until tender; when done, put them into a basin, reduce the syrup until thickish if required, and pour over; when cold they are ready to serve. A little prepared cochineal mixed with the syrup very much improves their appearance. A dish composed half of these and half of the white has a very pretty appearance. By placing a layer of marmalade among them, at the bottom of the dish, you may dish them in crown, or any shape you like. 879. COMPOTE OF PEACHES.-Put half a pound of lump sugar (broken into small pieces) into a stewpan, with a quarter of pint of water, which set upon the fire to boil until lorming a thickish syrup; have previously cut four ripe peaches in halves, lay them carefully in the boiling syrup to simmer a couple of minutes, then carefully remove them with a colander- spoon on to a hair sieve to drain, remove the skins, and dress the peaches neatly upon your dessert-dish; reduce the syrup until of a good consistency, and when cold pour it over, and thev are ready to serve. ^ J,80' kC°MP0™ 0F XPPLES.—Procure six nice ripe apples, but not too large, which peel, cut in halves, and cut out