327 SECOND COURSE. two pats of butter, then put in the remainder, proceed the same at top; serve very quickly, to prevent the butter oiling. 711. THE SAME, A LA MAITRE-D’HOTEL.—When boiled as above, put in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of maitre-d’hotel butter, when melted, serve. They may be also served with white sauce thus: put in a stewpan eight spoonfuls of melted butter, season well, simmer gently, add the yolk of an egg, two ounces of butter, juice of half a lemon, and serve. 712. KIDNEY BEANS.—Head and tail them, string and slit them down the middle, place them for half an hour in salt and water in which you have thrown a little culinary alkali, boil until tender, and serve with melted butter, or a 1a. maitre-d’hotel. 713. BROAD or WINDSOR BEANS.—Boil in salt and water: when done, serve with parsley and butter, or with a piece of bacon. 714. BRUSSELS SPROUTS.—Trim, wash, and boil about forty small Brussels sprouts; when tender, drain, dish, and sprinkle a little salt, pepper, and two ounces of butter over, and serve. Serve also in sauce, or with maitre-d’hotel, like French beans. These are also very good for soups, sauces, or garnish. 715. SPINACH.—This vegetable is very light and very good for invalids. It must be washed in several waters, after having been well picked; then put a quarter of a sieve of spinach to a gallon of boiling water and three ounces of salt, boil for ten minutes till tender, drain on sieve, press a little with your hands to extract part of the water, chop it up fine, put it in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, half ditto of pepper, put on a fire with a drop of warm broth for a few minutes, and serve. <16. SPINACH WITH GRAVY.—Proceed as before, but add a tablespoonful of flour, and half a pint of strong gravy in it as No. 186; serve with sippets of bread round. (17. SPINACH WITH CREAM.—Proceed as before, but putting half a pint of milk or cream instead of gravy, and the addition of a tablespoonful of sugar, cut three slices of bread, lay on dish, sift sugar over, put in oven, salamander over, cut in various shapes, and serve under or over the spinach.