233 ENTREES. of any description of pickles might be added to this salad, as also some anchovies or olives. The remains of any fowls or turkey may be mixed in salads, but according to our habits, many persons would fancy they were not nutritious; of that I can assure them to the contrary. The quantity of the meat and vegetable should pretty equally balance with each other; after such a meal, a man’s appetite is perfectly satisfied, and he is ready for an afternoon’s work if required. It also does not require the aid of any fire, which we so ungratefully abhor in hot weather. Mr. B. very much approves of this dish once a week in summer. 435. OX-KIDNEYS.—Cut a nice fresh ox-kidney into slices, each being about the size of a half crown piece, but double the thickness (avoiding the white part, or root, which is tough and indigestible), then put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan upon the fire, and when very hot but not black, put in the pieces of kidney, stirring them round with a wooden spoon three minutes over a brisk fire; then add for each pound weight of kidney, half a tablespoonful of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, and a little sugar, moisten with a gill of water and half a glass of sherry, add a little browning, if handy, and let simmer gently for five minutes, stirring them round occasionally; if too thick, add a few drops more water, the same should be sufficiently thick to adhere to the back of the spoon, pour them out upon your dish, and serve very hot. Broth might be used instead of water if convenient, but then the seasoning should be a little diminished, a little chopped eschalot, parsley, or a few mushrooms, would be an improvement. By cutting an ox-kidney lengthwise in three slices, it might be broiled or sauteed; if for gentlemen season rather highly, but it ladies are to be the partakers, season more moderately; a little gravy may be served with it, to which you have added a little catsup; the root of the kidney must not be cut away in this case, although not eatable. Ox-kidneys are also an ex- cellent addition to beef-steak puddings and pies. 436. OX-FEET or COW-HEELS are very nutritious, especially when well-boiled; they may be served in either of the methods directed for tripe, or with a plain parsley-and-butter sauce, to which, for a change, the juice of a lemon or a drop of vinegar may be added. Should any be left from the first day’s dinner it may be served a la Lyonnaise, as directed for cold tripe,