236 ENTREES. two cloves, half a blade of mace, and about a pint of broth or water, so as not to cover the larding: if no broth, use water and a teaspoontul of salt; cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, set it on a moderate fire; when on the point of boiling, put it in a slack oven, where let it remain for two or three hours; be careful every twenty minutes to moisten or baste the fricandeau with the gravy which is in the stewpan: the slower it is done the better. Ten minutes before it is removed from the oven, take off the paper, in order that the top may obtain a nice yellow colour; if the oven should not be hot enough, place live coals on the lid of the stewpan until done, try also if it is tender with a pointed knife. This dish may be carved with a spoon, being so tender; but I prefer to cut it with a very sharp knife, as it is more inviting in appearance; if you have no oven ready, stew gently on a hot plate, or by the side of the stove, with the lid on and live coals on the top. If you let it burn by any neglect or accident, do not tell your fi-iends that I gave you the receipt, as it would eat so very badly, and I should lose iny good name. It pan be served with any sauce or puree, but the one I prefer is as follows : Take the gravy from the stewpan, which ought to be about half a pint, if not so much, add water, pass it through a fine sieve into a basin, remove the fat from the top, put it into a small stewpan, reduce it a little to a demi-glaze, mix half a teaspoonful of arrow-root in a cup, with a little water, put it in the gravy, boil two minutes; it ought to be of a bright yellow colour, and transparent; the fricandeau should be served with gravy under it. The following purees are excellent to serve with it: sorrel, endive, peas, beans, artichokes, and spinach; tomato, mushroom, and cucumber sauces, &c. If a piece of udder can be procured, stew it with the fricandeau, and serve it in the same dish. This receipt will well repay the trouble attending it. The following is very good, and more simple. half an inch apart, run the needle into the third line (at the further side of the fricandeau) and bring it out at the first, placing one of the lardons in it, draw the needle through, leaving out a quarter of an inch of the bacon at each line : proceed thus to the end of the row; then make another line half an inch distant, stick in another row of lardons, bringing them out at the second line, leaving the ends of the bacon out all the same length ; make the next row again at the same distance, bringing the ends out between the lardons of the first row, proceeding in like manner until you have larded the whole surface in chequered rows : proceed in a similar way with every- thing you lard; and in case of poultry hold the breast over a charcoal fire for one minute, or dip it into boiling water in order to make the flesh firm. By following these directions, any cook may be able to lard, if not well, sufficient for general use.