420 THE BACHELOR’S DINNER. yet we may receive it second-hand ; as an instance, there is Mrs. , she knows the sayings and doings of Mr. , the witty member of her husband’s club, just as if she was a member herself. Now for the point. What ought a bachelor’s dinner to be ? In the first place, the number of guests ought not to consist of more than eight, with the table nicely arranged and set out, with all that is required in its proper place, napkins nicely folded, glasses of unrivalled crystal, and the groom of the chamber in his last new attire, assisted by one more au fait in the matter, with the lights nicely disposed, and the room an agreeable temperature,— say 63°. The guests all seated, with good appetites, and six delicate oysters upon the plate before each of them, and a few hors-d’oeuvres, such as a small dish of sardines, some slices of Lyons sausages, a little cavaire on toast, and two bottles of Chablis. This is an excellent beginning: it does not stop the appetite, and merely clears the road. Some persons go too long without eating, and the moment they begin, eat with an avidity which spoils their taste for the after part of the dinner, and during which time the whole mind is absorbed upon the plate before them, and until they are satisfied, no words escape their lips, and when at last they come forth, they do so with a heaviness and dulness which belongs not to the person who utters them, but to the inartistic manner of eating. Some of the greatest wits, from going too long without eating previous to dinner, become the dullest guests ; whilst some, who from want of thought thus begin their meal, find themselves, before dessert is on the table, in the arms of Morpheus, instead of enjoying the gifts of Bacchus. The pleasure of eating requires an appetite, but the pleasures of the table require that the appetite should not be appeased until it is time to arise from it. The mind should never give way to any great intensity of feeling, no ecstasy, no surprise, no transports, which would destroy that equilibrium which is so requisite for digestion. If artistically partaken of, at the end of the repast the mind becomes exhilarated, the brain is refreshed, the physiognomy opens, the colour rises, the eyes become brilliant, and a warmth spreads over the whole body ; the imagination glows, and wit sparkles and overflows, whereas, on the contrary, the mind becomes dull, the eyes heavy, and the body shuddering with cold. The dinner having thus began with six oysters, a large glass of Chablis, or, if preferred, White Hermitage, or even Moselle, the soup is then placed upon the table. This ought to be of a light kind, and should turtle be pre- ferred, it ought to be light and transparent. With the soup, a glass of Sherry or Madeira is the best accompaniment. At the same time as the soup is placed upon the table, so are the fish, the sauce, and the potatoes on the sideboard. The fish, if boiled, should be accompanied by Hock or white Burgundy, if baked or stewed, with Claret of a light kind.