138 FISH. brown; pour all these ingredients over the fish, and let them stew gently for twenty minutes; have ready the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, and when the fish is sufficiently done, take some of the gravy and mix gradually with the eggs, and, pouring them on the fish, shake the stewpan a little over the fire to thicken the whole, but not to curdle the eggs; the soft roes added are an improvement: have ready more grated crust, and having placed the fish whole in the dish, shake a little of the grated crust over the whole, so as to make it of a handsome brown. The receipt requires to be carefully followed. If the gravy is too thick, more water may be added; also a glass of sherry, if liked. Scad, or Horse Mackerel, should he chosen and treated in every respect like the former, and will keep longer, and by some are preferred to the common mackerel. Garfish, Homfish, and Tobacco-pipe Fish may be prepared and cooked like an eel. Skipper, or Saury Pike, must be cooked like the mackerel, which it resembles in flavour. Take care not to confound this fish with the saurus or conger, garfish or girrock, and called by the Italians the imperial eel, which must be cooked like an eel. Whitings, when fresh, are a most delicate fish, their remarkable lightness rendering it easy of digestion to the weakest stomach. This fish is in season all the year on different parts of the coast, and it is caught with spillard lines, instead of, as it ought to be, in nets. The best size, in point of flavour, are those about nine inches long; I have known them twenty-four inches , there is a law to prevent them being taken less than six inches in length. Their goodness is known by the firmness of the flesh and brightness of the eyes and skin. The general way of preparing them is as follows: 245. FRIED WHITING.—The whiting is generally skinned, and the tail turned round and fixed into the mouth; dip it first into flour, then egg over and dip it into bread-crumbs, fry as directed for the sole; for whiting aux fines herbes, proceed as directed for sole aux fines heibes. I prefer the whiting fried with their skins on, merely dipping them in flour.