240 ENTREES. plain, or rub a little maitre-d’hotel butter over them, set in a hot place for a few moments, and serve. They may also be sauteed, by putting them into a sautepan, and saute until of a nice colour, take them out and put in the pan a spoonful of chopped onions, parsley, and mushrooms (if at hand), stir until done, then add a teaspoonful of flour, when it is a little brown, add halt a pint of water, two spoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce and one of vinegar, stir well round, dish up the cutlets, sauce over, and serve. They may also be larded like the fricandeau, and served in the same way, and with the like sauces, only less time in cooking. 452. YEAL CUTLETS EN PAPILLOTE.—Prepare as the last, and put them in a pie-dish and pour the sauce over, and let them remain until cold; then cut a sheet of foolscap paper in the shape of a heart and oil or butter it; lay one of the cutlets with a little of the sauce on one half of the paper, turn the other half over, then turn and plait the edges of the paper over, beginning at the top of the heart and finishing with an extra twist at the bottom, which will cause the sauce to remain in it; broil slowly on a gridiron for twenty minutes on a very slow fire, or place it in the oven for that time, and serve. 453. HASHED CALF’S HEAD.—Put into a stewpan one tablespoonful of chopped onions, and three of vinegar, take the remains of the head winch cut into slices, place them on a dish, add a tablespoonful of flour to them, a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of one of pepper, put the stewpan on the fire to boil for one minute, add the pieces of head, and moisten with half pint of broth, water, or milk; let it simmer for ten minutes and serve on toast or plain, or with sippets round. The addition of a few gherkins sliced or any mixed pickle is an improvement. A little thyme or bay leaf, if at hand, may be added. If with water or gravy a little colouring will improve the appearance. This receipt is for one pound of meat. It may also be warmed in curry sauce, and is excellent. 454. A MADE DISH FROM YEAL JOINTS THAT HAVE BEEN PREVIOUSLY SERVED.—(If from braised veal, with vegetables, cut it into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, then put the remainder vegetables and gravy, if any, in a pan; if not, with water and a piece of glaze; season with a little salt, pepper, sugar, a bay-leaf, and the juice of a