142 FISH. been beaten up in a cup with pepper and salt, and some more butter, if approved of. Just previous to serving, add a wineglassful of red wine, and the juice of half a smal? lemon. Serve separate. 251. RED MULLETS, FILLETED, FRIED.— Proceed the same as in the last, then have some batter prepared, as No. 877, dip them into it, and fry in plenty of fat; serve with any sauce you like. Gray Mullet.—Although bearing the same name, is a totally different species from the former, and is not of that fine flavour, yet it is by no means a bad fish when in season ; but it has got into bad repute, no doubt from being taken at those times when it is the easiest, and then it is out of season ; it should be taken in the open sea, in August, September, and Oc- tober, and not in rivers, where they ascend as far as the water is at all nrackish. They should be firm, and eyes bright, like other fish. They may be cooked in every way like mackerel. Herrings, when in season, that is, when the roe is just forming, are most excellent and wholesome fish, when eaten fresh : I have this day (the 25th of April) partaken of some, caught in twenty-four fathom water, about twelve miles off the coast of Folkestone, in which one could just distinguish the formation of the roe. The richness of the fish at this period is extraordinary, and renders it worthy the table of the greatest epicure ; yet, if you were to tell a fisherman on the coast to go and cast his nets at this season of the year in twenty-four fathoms, he would take you to be either mad or a fool; but our intelligent neighbours on the opposite coast and in the port of Boulogne know better, and go out and take them, and sell them for four sous each as bait for the conger.* Their age and size depend upon the coast where caught; but as they are a fish which never take bait, and, consequently, only caught with nets, and those of a certain mesh, we therefore obtain them generally of one size, but I have seen them as small as six inches, and as long as fourteen inches, and in proportion in width and depth, and weighing four pounds : when as large as this, they are generally called the queen or king * We are glad to find that this remark has induced the fishermen on the south coast of England to try their luck ; and this day, April 30, 1850, for the first time in the annals of Billingsgate, herrings have been sold.