82 CONDIMENTS. tlie habit of partaking of them say that they enliven the mind, exhilarate the spirits, assist the digestion, and render the reasoning faculties more clear. How far this may be correct, I am not able to say; but I believe them to be irritable, and would not advise too great an indulgence in them. When first known, there was a difference of opinion among the learned, if they were vegetable or mineral, as they appeared to have no origin* ; there is no doubt, however, but what they are a species of fungus, tube, or root. They are generally found within a few inches of the surface of the eartli, and under oak trees; they are known also as the subterraneous “ puff- ball,” tuba cibarium. The best, as we said before, are supposed to come from “ Perigord,” the next from Angoul6me—these are black; the white ones come from Piedmont, and Carolina in America; they are also veiy good, but ought to be partaken of fresh. We have black ones in this country, in the New Forest in Hampshire, and they also exist m the vicinity of the Lakes of Killamey, in Ireland; and if sought for, the woods of Mr. Herbert M.P., would yield large quantities, besides giving employment to the poor. It is in such places where humidity and equality of climate exist that they are most numerous. On the Continent, they are found by mean3 of dogs and pigs, trained on purpose. They should not be subjected to too long ebullition, as the aroma is very volatile. Those found in England have not the same aromatic qualities as those of France, and therefore are sold much cheaper. BAY is the leaf of a species of laurel, but in using of it, care must be taken that the leaf of the bay-laurel, or cherry-laurel, (prunm Imroceraxus,) is not used for it, being a decided poison (prussic acid); but the bay, or sweet bay, (laura snobUis,) an evergreen of the South of Europe, may be used to great advantage in cookery, as it imparts an agreeable and aromatic flavour, differing very widely from any spices that can be used for the same purposes. It is cultivated extensively in our gardens, and should be used according to the directions given in the receipts. SAFFRON was formerly-that is, in the fourteenth century-much used in cookery in Europe. It has bulbous roots, like the onion and flowers ; the fibres grow from the bottom of the bulb, having roots with coats or skin one over the other, and bears naked flowers without stem._ At present it is only used in the kitchen for the purpose of colouring, of which kind it is one of the most wholesome. In Portugal, Spain, and Turkey, it is used at present day to a great extent.