BREAKFASTS. IS not so choice in appearance, but, to my taste, better in flavour; the plainer they are, the better they dress for breakfa st; by all means, never use them except you are confident that they are fresh. Tim skin must be transparent, that the meat should be seen through ; they keep good two or three days in a cold place, in summer, nearly a week in winter (with care.) 37. SAUSAGES,—how to cook them.—Prick them with a pin all round about twenty times, put them on the gridiron over a gentle fire ; turn three or four times, by doing which you will have them a very nice yellow colour; dish them, and serve them very hot. 38. SAUTEED SAUSAGES.—If your fire smoke, it is preferable to saute them. Put some butter in the pan, with four sausages; after you have pricked them as before men- tioned, saute gently; a few' minutes will do them; turn them often. In many instances, a thin slice of bread sauted in the fat they have produced, is a great improve- ment : save the fat, as it is always useful in a kitchen. In case you are in a hurry to do them, throw them into hot water for one minute previously to their being broiled or sauteed; they will then be the sooner cooked, and even eat rather more relishing to a delicate stomach, the oil being extracted thereby from the skin; they may also be fried in the frying-pan. 39. BLACK PUDDINGS.—They are in France a regular standing dish for a winter’s breakfast, and ought to be more in use in England; but I must observe that I mean the home-made ones, or those made d la Franca is, because I consider those that are usually sold in almost every shop are too heavy for breakfast; they may pass at dinner-time, though I must confess the flavour is not at all to my liking. 40. BLACK PUDDINGS, BROILED.—Make about six or eight incisions through the skin with a knife, slant- fwise, on each side of the pudding; put it on the gridiron or about eight minutes, over rather a brisk fire; turn it four times in that space of time, and serve broiling hot