208 POULTRY. * separate on a dish of greens. If any remains of tongue from a previous day, it may be served instead of the sau- sages, cut the same shape as sausages, and warmed in a pan; if so, put a nice green Brussels sprout between each piece. Bread sauce is generally served with this dish; for my own part I never eat it. Boiled Turkey.—This is a dish I rarely have, as I never could relish it boiled as it generally is, by putting it into that pure and chaste element ■water, into which has been thrown some salt, the quantity of which differs as much as the individuals that throw it in. I often reflect to myself, why should this innocent and well-brought up bird have its remains condemned to this watery bubbling inquisition, especially when alive it has the greatest horror of this temperate fluid ; it is really for want of reflection that such mistakes occur: the flavour of a roasted turkey, hot or cold, is as superior to the boiled as it is possible to be. But yet there is a kind of boiling that can be adopted, and which I sometimes practise : it makes a nice palatable dish, and the broth can be used for other purposes. I think, if you try it, you will never again resort to that bubbling system of salt and water. I proceed as follows :— 380. BOILED BRAISED TURKEY.—Truss it thus: cut the neck, leaving the skin on; cut the legs off; then run the middle finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and put them under the apron of the turkey, put the liver and gizzard in the pinions, turn the small end of the pinions on the back, run a packing needle with string through the joint of the wing and middle joint of the leg, and through the body, and out at the opposite leg and win<r, bring it round and tie it on the back, then run the needle and string through the ends of the legs or dium- stick press it through the back, and tie strongly ; it is then ready. When the turkey is trussed, then stuff it; and if intended to have oyster sauce with it, chop about two dozen of oysters into small dice and mix them with the stuffing, and place inside the breast. Then rub the breast