NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 459 6. LAMB BROTH CURRY. — Proceed exactly as above. 7. DUTCH RABBIT SOUP.—These gigantic Dutch qua- drupeds are sometimes so plentiful, that I can buy twelve pounds at the rate of fourpence a pound, perfectly fresh and good. I partly cook them the first day, and can then keep them a week if I like. They may be dished almost in any way, for which refer to our work; but, for soup, I proceed exactly as for veal curry soup, increasing the proportion accordingly. By the bye, Eloise, the other day I bought a large slice of pumpkin for two- pence, and did not knowhow to cook it when I arrived at home. Mr. B. laughed heartily at my being caught, as he said, in my own trap; but “ Stop” said I, “ till to-morrow, and see.” 8. PUMPKIN SOUP.—I peeled off the rind, and cut the pumpkin into small pieces, placed them in a stewpan, and just covering them with water, let them boil gently till the whole was reduced to a pulp. I then added a quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of sugar, a pint of milk, a quarter ot an ounce of salt; the whole must often be well stirred, and served with sippets of toast. We all found it very nice; so my twopence was not wasted, you see; and I received great praise. It filled a large tureen. . JERUSALEM SOUP.—Cut two onions in slices, put em in a saucepan, with two ounces of dripping or salt butter: let try a few minutes; cut twelve peeled Jerusalem artichokes in slices, put them in and fry ten minutes, add a pint of water, phnlrpUDCe °/ SAlt’ ra Ut.tle PePPer> and sugar; when your arti- chokes are tender by simmering, add a large tablespoonful of flour, add two quarts of fresh buttermilk or water; cut some t in slices of toast into dice, put them in a tureen, pour over re-Two ounces °f iean bac- ^ be 10. PUREE OF as above, only the longer. CARROTS OR TURNIPS may be made carrots must be cut thinner and cooked 7°U k“°W’ dc"riEloisc>that above 100,000 bushels of haricots and lentils which furnish so nutritious a food, remain year after year in the warehouses nn sold whde m France they form an important part of the people’s food; dressed hi o owing manner they make an excellent and economical dish.