280 entrees. 2 pUt m a Sood-sizei apple cut into slices, let boil until it is reduced to about half, when rub it through a tammy or hair sieve, pour it again into a stewpan, and when hot, pour over the fish, and serve with rice separately. This being so very delicate, requires great care in cookin- it, or it will get very unsightly. ° ’ ENTREES OF GAME. 567. BROILED PHEASANT —Having drawn a pheasant, lay it upon its breast, and pass a knife down the backbone, upon each side, taking it entirely out, then cut off the feet at the knuckle, break the leg and thigh-bones, turning the leg inside, separate the breast joint of the wing, pressing the bird quite Hat, then saute it in a sautepan, with a little lard or dripping and when browned on both sides, and about half done, place it upon a plate, season well with salt and pepper, egg and bread- crumb over, and broil it upon a gridiron over a moderate fire until sufficiently done, which would be in about a quarter of an hour, v hen serve with game, mushroom, or any piquant sauce. The advantage of broiling or sauteing game or poultry is, that when you are alone, you need only cook the half of any large bird at one time. 56S. GAME CURRIES.—I have also made very good game curries, but not too hot with curry, as that would entirely destroy the flavour of the game. 569. PHEASANT STEWED WITH CABBAGE.—The following is an excellent method for dressing a pheasant which should prove to be rather old, although a young one would be preferable. Procure a large savoy cabbage, which cut into quarters, and well wash in salt and water, after which boil it five minutes in plain Avater, then drain it quite dry, cut off the stalk, season rather highly Avith pepper and salt, have ready a middling-sized onion, and half a pound of streaky bacon, which, Avith the cabbage, put into a stewpan, covering the Avhole with a little good broth; let it simmer at the corner of the fire three quarters of an hour, then put the pheasant (previously three parts roasted) into the cabbage, and let them stew nearly three- quarters of an hour longer, or until the stock has partly reduced