ENTREES. 231 to glaze, and adheres thickly to the cabbage, when dress the cabbage in a mound upon your dish, Avith the bacon, cut into slices, around, and the pheasant upon the top, half tvay buried in the cabbage; have a little game sauce, Avhich pour round and serve. 570. JOE MILLER’S STEWED PHEASANT.—Roast a pheasant as directed (No. 614), but previously dip it into flour, and occasionally butter and flour over whilst roasting, thus making the exterior very crisp, and keeping it nearly white, then put the crumb of two French rolls into a stewpan, with half a pint of milk, a small eschalot, a bay-leaf, an ounce of butter, and a little pepper and salt; let the whole boil a few minutes, when take out the eschalot and bay-leaf, place a piece of buttered toast upon your dish, pour the above over, dress the pheasant upon the top, and serve. 5/1. HASHED PHEASANT. — Should you have any remains of pheasants from a previous day, cut them into as neat pieces as possible, then put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, Avith half an ounce of flour, which stir two or three minuter over the fire, until becoming slightly browned; then add a glass of port wine, half a pint of water, season highly, boil at° the corner of the stove, stirring and skimming occasionally, until sufficiently thick to adhere to the back of the spoon; then put in the pieces of pheasant, with a little colouring, let it remain ten minutes at the corner of the stove, but not to boil, dress the meat upon your dish, pass the sauce over through a sieve, and serve. 572. A PLAIN SALMI OF PHEASANT. —Or, should you have a pheasant left that little has been cut from, cut and tiim it into neat joints, which put into a stewpan, then in another stewpan put the bones and trimmings, chopped up very an on*on in slices, a little parsley, thyme, and bay- leaf, four peppercorns, and a glass of sherry, boil altogether two minutes, then add three parts of a pint of brown sauce and half a pint of broth; (if no brown sauce add a spoonful of flour and a quart of broth or Avater and some colouring;) let the Avhole boil until reduced to half, skimming it occasionally; place a fine hair sieve over the stewpan containing the pieces of pheasant through which pass the sauce, warm altogether gently, without boiling, and when quite hot dress the pieces neatly upon a dish.