424 ON CARVING. You reproach me for not having said a word about carving; I have not STJi 'S an aCC0mPlisllment which our sex need not study, but at the .same time it is well to know a little of it. It is rather difficult to my be useful deSCnptl°n without Swings, but a few general remarks v CUJlBeef’J?’’ Harn’ T°ngUe’ and Breasts of ^ultiy, with a sharp knife, very thm ; Mutton, Lamb, and Pork rather thicker. Never rise from your seat to carve ; never cut across the grain of the meat, that is, not across the ribs of beef, as I have seen some persons do, and Mr. B tells me is often done at clubs, but it is only those do so who do not know how to carve or appreciate the true flavour of the meat. Never place a fork through the back of a fowl, in order to carve the leg and wnigs, but run the knife gently down each side the breast, detaching the leg and wing at the same time, which is greatly facilitated by the use of the Tendon Separator—one of which I purchased at Bramah’s, in Piccadilly; it is the greatest boon ever conferred on a bad carver: the directions for using it are given with it. If it was more generally used, there would be no more birds flying across the table in the faces of guests ; no more turkeys deposited in a lady s or gentleman’s lap; no more splashing of gravy to spoil satin , dresses; but all would be divided with the greatest facility, and in the most elegant manner, and the poultry would look much better at table. Never cut up the body of poultry at table, that should always be left ; but game should be cut up, as many epicures prefer the backbone. For a sirloin of beef, the under part of the loin should always be cut when hot, and the upper part cut straight from the backbone towards the outside of the ribs; by this plan you will not spoil the appearance of the joint. Ribs of Beef should be carved in the same way, cutting thin and slanting. Round of Beef: cut a slice half an inch thick from the outside, and then carve thin slices, with a little fat. Aitch-bone, the same. Fillet of Veal, the same. Loin of V eal, carve as the Sirloin of Beef, serving some of the kidney and fat to each person. Shoulder of Veal; begin from the knuckle, cut thin and slanting. Saddle of Mutton will, if properly oarved, serve a great many persons; instead of cutting a long slice the whole length, put your knife under the meat and cut it away from the bone, then cut it like thin chops, serving lean and fat together; according to the usual plan, a saddle of mutton will serve