411 CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. We will now go and see it through this window, as it has a door which opens into the gaiden ; the place it occupies was formerly a passage from the area to the stahl es, as you see the basement floor is on a level with the original ground, and not sunk as in many houses—a plan I prefer, considering it more wholesome, therefore this slope is made ground. Here we are ; you will perceive it is rather narrow, hut I make up for it in height; it is but eight, feet by sixteen ; these are the four troughs for hot and cold water, sup- plied from the circulating boiler in the kitchen. On the day the laundry is not used, the water is turned off, and then only supplies the baths at the top of the house. I had an idea of putting up a slate bath for the servants, as l am a great advocate for the hydropathic system, and think there is nothing like cleanliness for health : as it will not cost much. I shall do so, and place it under the ironing board. This is my new washino- machine, and this the drying machine, which I had made after mv own . design. This is the ironing stove, which likewise heats the dtying apparatus. As you have now descended into the lower regions of my establishment I must show you the improvements I have made in the kitchen since you were here last. In consequence of the introduction of my new apparatus, or stove, I have entirely done away with the kitchen range ; its place, as you perceive, being closed; and I have likewise done away with the hot plate and the charcoal stove, which we only used once or twice a-year, and m its p.ace I have got a gas stove, which is a great economy, anc’ the fire in the new stove is left to go out after dinner, and some days is not even lit • and it m also exceedingly clean, but not having gas near your cottage you cannot adopt it. lou see, here is the new stove in the middle of the kitchen ; it combines a roasting fire, circulating hot water boiler oven, and hot plate, all mated by one fire ; the boiler heats the water at the top of the house for .6 baths’ and wblch can be laid on into any room ; the advantage is that it gives more room in the kitchen, in being able to walk all round it ; there is also different degrees of heat on the hot plate, and room for the bain-marie pan the smoke goes under the floor into the old chimney. It was made for me by Messrs. Bramah and Prestage, of Piccadilly. There is the drawing • £ LriTTe' eTdiDgly n0Vel hl aPPe“; -d I feel confident,’ known, would come into general use, even from the cottage to the largest establishment; it could be fitted with a steam-boiler if required ; and would l7,Cf r, m°?ValUable in b0tels and taverns: in a cottage the linen d be dried around it without danger from fire ; ar.d it also cures smoky chimneys. Mr. B. s brother, who, you know, is in the Naw, has got one for it8 mTk\ T 116 18 deligbted ; there is ver.v Httle heat arising fi-om t w n i ru ? J0U P<3rCelVe’ b6ing SmaU> only twelve by eighteen feet it would be felt; but ,n order to take off all vapour, I have had made as you perceive, an opening in the ceiling, from which a pipe passes between « joist to the outside. There is nothing else very novel in the kitchen, being