SECOND COURSE. 305 it up in a napkin. If handy, a few strips of cooked tongue, and blanched pistachios, laid in alternately with the veal and bacon, greatly improves its flavour and appearance. 658. SIMPLIFIED WAY OF MAKING- THE SA- \ OUR1 JELLY, CALLED ASPIC.—Put it in a stewpan with two onions, a carrot, half a head of celery, two cloves, a blade of mace, a good bunch of parsley, a little thyme, and bay-leaves, a knuckle of veal, the bones of the turkey, two calf’s-feet, two ounces of salt, add sufficient water to cover the whole, and set the stewpan upon the fire until upon the point of boiling; then draw it to the corner, skim, and let simmer for three hours; then take it from the fire, leaving it in the stock until nearly cold; then take it out, remove the string from the napkin, and roll the Galantine up tighter, tying the napkin again at each end only; then place it upon a dish, the breast part upwards, set another dish upon it, on which place a fourteen pounds’ weight, which m ill pi ess and cause it to cut firm; when quite cold it is ready to serve, having removed the napkin and the. string with which it was sewed; the stock, however, should be clarified as directed in t le next receipt to make a savoury jelly, which when cold and firm is cut in croutons and chopped, some also with which the Galantine should be tastefully garnished. Although at first I had some difficulty with this receipt, I can now see the variety to which it leads, as the same process answers for fowls, green geese, ducklings, pheasants, grouse, partridges, &c., using game with the veal or pork for the interior, and stewing them according to their size ■ the bones of game being stewed with the stock will give the flavour to’ the savoury jelly. 659. TO CLARIF1 MEAT JELLY.—Having passed the stock (made as in the last) through the sieve into a basin, leave t untd quite coId; then take off all the fat very carefully, ascer- tarn if sufficiently or too stiff by putting a small piece upon ice; satoury jelly requires to be rather staffer than sweet, if too stiff uno n Jhpfi morebroth’lf the contrary, the stock must be reduced upon the fire until of the proper consistency. When the stock °lling> and you are perfectly assured of its strength, have the white of four eggs with their shells in a basin, with half a pint o water two spoonfuls of tarragon or common vinegar, and a glass of sherry, whisk all together; then whisk the stock quickly a lew. seconds, and pour in the other ingredients whilst whisK uig; continue whisking a few minutes until again upon the point