SECOND COURSE. 329 be put in an oven, by laying them in a saute-pan or tin dish, put a little butter and season over each, and a drop of Harvey’s sauce, and let them remain twenty minutes, and serve with gravy over. 721. LEIN TILS.—Put into a stewpan one quart, add two quarts ot cold water, one ounce of butter, a little salt, one onion sliced, a bouquet of parsley, set on the fire, simmer till tender, which may be in two hours; when done, drain in a sieve, and save the liquor, which can be made into a soup like the haricots (see Receipt Ino. /19); put the lentils in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a little salt, sugar, pepper, and a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots, set it on the fire, put in butter and flour, mix well, boil ten minutes gently, and dish in a border of potatoes or in a deep dish. It may also be done thus: by frying till brown one onion sliced in a stewpan, put in the boiled lentils, with two ounces of butter, a little flour, a gill of oraVy and season as above, stir well, boil, and serve hot. Gabanza or Egyptian bean may be cooked in the same way. 122. ENGLISH TRUFFLES.—Put twelve of them to soak lor lour hours in lukewarm water; then with a hard hair-brush remove all the earth from them; then wash again, put them into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon, two onions, half a head of celery, half a carrot, a clove of garlic, two bay leaves, a sprig of thyme, lour of parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar, a half o.l pepP®r’ V™ Slasses of sherry and a pint of broth; let them simmer lor half an hour or more, but till tender; place them in the oven for twenty minutes longer, remove the truffles and place them on a dish; have a little mashed potatoes, and make a border, and_ place the truffles on in pyramid to prevent them moving strain the gravy they were in, skim off the fat, reduce it to about a gill put in a teaspoonful of arrow-root in a cup, with a spoon- ,»u, ’ 7“ ■*’ a"d put ,0 the e™?’ boil » few minutes, pour over, and serve. 5 I peeled some of them, cooked the same way; they eat better but they did not look so well. 7 7 ’ .23 SAUTE OF TIIE SAME. _ After having washed nmm’l1 f?i!t l6m aDd CUt them int0 tllin slices> and put about one pound of them into a stewpan; I then add a quarter of a pound ol butter, a teaspoonful of salt, half one of sugar, a quartet ditto nutmeg, warm over the fire, add a gill of broth, a little flour