241 ENTREES. quarter of a lemon, simmer gently for twenty minutes on a slow fire; dish the slices in the form of a crown, lay the vegetables in the middle, pour gravy over, and serve. Should any remain, cut it into very small dice, leave none on the bones, put it in a pan, shake a little Hour over, season with a little salt, pepper, sugar, bay-leaf, and the juice of a quarter of a lemon, then moisten it with milk sufficient to make a sauce, warm it for ten minutes, add half an ounce of butter, stir it well, and serve very hot: or, if you prefer it brown, leave out the milk and throw a few chopped mushrooms and eschalots in, and moisten with a little water, to which add a few drops of brown- ing, or a little catsup: it ought never to be too thick. Poached eggs may be served with it. 455. CALF’S BRAINS FRIED.—Prepare them as for calf’s head, (p. 184;) cut them in pieces of about two inches square, as for boiling, dip them into batter, and fry them im- mersed in fat, and serve with fried parsley over. Season with a little salt, pepper, and vinegar. 456. CALF’S BRAINS A LA M AITRE-D’HOTEL.— Prepare the brain as before, warm six spoonfuls of melted butter; when hot, add one ounce of maitre-d’hotel butter, and, when melted, pour it over. 457. SHEEP’S BRAINS.—Proceed as for calf’s brains; these being smaller do not require so long to cook; though very good, they are not so delicate as calf’s brains. 458. SHEEP’S KIDNEYS.—For a small’dish, procure six fresh ones, take off the thin skin which covers them, and cut them into slices, put in a sautepan one ounce of butter; when melted and nearly brown, add the kidneys, with half a tea- spoonful of salt, one quarter ditto of pepper, half a tablespoonful of flour, mix well together, add half a wine-glass of sherry and a gill of broth, simmer for a few minutes, and serve very hot; a nice crisp toast is an improvement placed under them; also, a few raw mushrooms, cut in slices, added when being sauted are excellent. For broiled kidney, (see Breakfast.) They’can also be cut in half and cooked the same, and dished in a crown on a thin border of mashed potatoes. . 4f- SHEEP’S FEET, or TROTTERS.-Previous to visit- ing the Continent, I had quite a dislike to these unfortunate pied de mouton w lose blackish appearance in stall and market seemed to be only intended R