ROASTING. 68 LETTER No. XII. Dearest Eloise,—I cannot but admire your anxiety to begin the Dinner Receipts, which, I must agree with you, will certainly form the most important and principal part of our Domestic correspondence ; but previously I wish to impress upon your mind the foundation and indispensable basis of cockery. No palace has ever been erected without the proper material for the purpose, and the requisite knowledge of the capability and utility of that material. In the like way, every science has its foundation from whence it springs ; but perhaps none so complicated as the science of cookery, in pursuit of which every nation and clime differ in their mode, in order to produce the same results with nearly the same materials, no matter how those results may differ; yet there is no other plan than the following for them to adopt—they are, Roasting, Baking, Boiling, Stewing, Braising, Frying, Sauteing, Broiling, which I shall describe ; and I am confident that, with your intelligence, you will not fail of appreciating them, as well as the minute description of the condiments—and especially that useful element, Water, which assists so much in the proper organization of the materials for producing our food. When you are acquainted with these rudiments, I shall then forward you the receipts adapted for Dinners. P.S.—You kindly inquire after the baby. I am happy to inform you that he is better, and entirely free from pain ; and that it was a false alarm about la petite roufjeole. Trusting that you will not be tired with my long correspondence, Believe me, dear Eloise, yours, IIortensk. Roasting, Baking, Boiling, Slaving, Braising, Frying, Sauteing, Broiling. ROASTING being the most general in use, we will first describe it, although it is not that which was first put in practice in cooking, it being evidently an improvement on broiling: we can easily understand how, in the primitive times, when man, finding that his food got covered with the ashes from the fire with which he cooked his meat, would invent a species of grate upon which he could raise the fire, and so cook his meat before it; this early mode of cooking has continued, in many countries, up to the present day, and even in London to within a few years; for I remember seeing, in