SECOND COURSE. 325 703. VEGETABLE MARROW. — Choose eight young small ones, with smooth skin, and put them to boil in two quarts of water, in which you have put one ounce of salt, the same of butter; try with a needle if tender, then dish them tastefully on mashed potatoes in a dish; put half a pint of melted butter in a pan, when near boiling add a liaison of a yolk of an egg, two pats of butter, a little sugar, the juice of half a lemon, sauce over and serve; if they are rather large, cut them iu two len<*tli- tvise; if in smaller pieces, take all the inside out and boif till tender, and warm in the above sauce. You can also make a nice demi-glaze, as No. 137, and let them simmer in it for twenty minutes; do not break them, as they would then be unsightly; they can be made into soup like cauliflower, No. 216. 704. CAULIFLOWER AND BROCCOLI.—Be very par- ticular in cleaning them, choose them rather small, thick, and firm, put them for one hour in salt and water, then rinse them well in water, that all the dirt may be removed from the interior- have a pan of boiling water, in which you have placed two’ ounces of salt and one of butter, drain, and use where indicated; but if for second course, place them on a dish in the form of a dome, and cover over with some sauce as for vegetable marrow, or plain melted butter, or Soubise sauce if preferred plain; serve it very hot, having drained it. 1 705. THE SAME GRATINE WITH CHEESE.—Put into a stewpan ten spoonfuls of white sauce, No. 135, with a little chopped onions, which boil for a few minutes, add to it a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan, or any mild En°dish cheese; when boiling add the yolk of one egg, and a little cayenne; Zw!UICVay arlttle °n a dlsh> Put two or three heads ofcauli- flowe or broccoli on it, pour the remainder of sauce over, and a “ e bread-crumbs and grated cheese; putin oven half an hour give it a nice yellow colour, and serve; if no white sauce use melted butter, but do not boil it so long, or it will eat rather greasy. 706. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES—One of the best and most useful vegetables ever introduced to table, and anythin"- but appreciated as it deserves to be. To prove to you that I am a great admirer of it, you will find it very often mentioned £ Zirecef+t In usinS them a second course, I choose about but tYyj fth.e S,ame Slze’ peeI tliem’ and shape them like a pear flat at the bottom, wash them well, boil gently in three pints