134 FISH. an hour. The better plan is to run the point of a knife down to the backbone, from which, if the flesh parts easily, it is done ; dress it upon a dish without a napkin, and serve a Beyrout sauce, or any other, round. Sturgeon derives its name from the German stocren, to stir, to rake up ; it is from the same word we derive our word stir. It is the accipenser of the Romans. This fish has long been in use in England, but, from its scarcity, it has always been expensive—indeed, it has been considered as a royal fish; for every one caught in the rivers of England belongs to the Queen, with the exception of the river Thames, which belong to the Lord Mayor. A very large one was caught a few years since in a mill-pond above Vauxhall Bridge. They ascend the rivers thus high, in order to avoid pursuit from other fish, though in form and body as large as a shark, yet they are the most harmless of fish, having neither jaw-bone nor teeth: they have been caught eighteen feet in length. The flavour of the young sturgeon is extremely delicate, but that materially depends upon the river in which it is caught, as it feeds upon the insects and plants,—in fact, entirely by suction ; those caught in rapid rivers and sandy bottoms, and where they have the advantage of salt and fresh water, are the best. 237. ECONOMICAL MODE OF COOKING STUR- GEON.—Take a piece of sturgeon about two pounds weight, and on sending a piece of meat to the baker’s to be baked on a stand in a dish, put the sturgeon under it, with a little water, salt, pepper, &c., and a little chopped eschalot may be used; you can also put potatoes round it. Peas, if in season, are a good accompaniment, with melted butter. 238. TO ROAST STURGEON.—Take the tail part, skin and bone it; fill the part where the bone comes from with some stuffing, as for a fillet of veal; put butter and paper round it, and tie it up like a fillet of veal; roast, and serve it with melted butter and gravy. They may be cooked precisely as veal, in large or small pieces, as for frican- deau, papillote, &c., and even salted in imitation of tunny.