84 CONDIMENTS. OLIVE is a fruit not much used in this country in cookery ; it grows on a low tree with long narrow leaves, rough underneath ; the fruit contains a long and small kernel; the flesh of the fruit, when pressed, yields the oil known as olive oil. This is a most valuable article in cookery ; it ought to be tasteless and inodorous, but when long exposed to the air becomes rank and unfit for use. ARROW-ROOT is the powder of the root of a tree growing in very warm and moist climates, of about two to three feet in height, known in botany as the maranta arwidinarea. In some countries, the flour of this root is mixed with that of Indian com, and makes excellent bread. It is produced in the same way as the starch from potatoes. TAPIOCA is also a starch, produced from the roots of a Brazilian plant called Cassava, a very elegant and handsome plant, with beautiful white and pink flowers. Though so handsome in its exterior, yet the plant in itself is one of the most poisonous in existence ; it is now becoming general in use, as it is found, when mixed with a little wine or spirit, to be an excellent stimulant to an invalid, without possessing any heating qualities. It should always be well washed in water, and then boiled until it becomes transparent, when it should be well stirred, and whatever is required to be mixed with it should be added. It will, when mixed with other flour, make very good bread. SALSOP is another root of a plant called orchis memo, a native of the East, where it is used as an article of food to a great extent; it is reduced to powder, and readily dissolves in boiling water. It is a light, pleasant drink, and, to persons of a feverish constitution, is exceedingly wholesome. SAGO is another of these starches, similar to Tapioca, made from the pith of the palm-tree, a native of the Indies. It is prepared precisely in the same way as the Tapioca. SOY is obtained from the seed or fruit of an Indian plant, called dohehos soja, or soya; it is produced in a very similar way to ketchup; it enters greatly into use in the variety of sauces that are made for the table, it being of a very strong, sweet-bitter taste ; it should only be used in moderation in cookery. CHETNEY is a production of the East Indies, which, of late years, has come considerably into use; it is the mixing together of a variety of fruits,