180 REMOVES. nished round; a little oil might also be added. (See Broiling.) VEAL of about two or three months old is the best; the flesh ought to be white, approaching to pink, and the fat firm ; it is cut up the same as mutton, except that, in the hind-quarter, the loin is cut straight, leaving the aitch-bone on it, which may be either dressed on the loin or separate. The fore-quarter consists of the shoulder, neck, and breast. The hind- quarter, the knuckle, leg, fillet, and the loin. The head and pluck consist of the heart, liver, nuts, skirts, melt, and the heart, throat, and sweetbread. The bull-calf is the best, the flesh is firmer grained or redder, and the fat more curdled than the cow-calf, which latter is in general preferred, being more delicate and better adapted for made dishes, as having the udder. Nothing can be worse than veal if not fresh; it should never hang more than two days in summer and four in winter. To be in full perfection, the kidneys ought to be covered with fat, and the veins in the shoulder bright red or blue. It is best from May to September, although it may be had good all the year. The head, when fresh, should have the eyes plump and lively ; if stale, they are sunk and wrinkled. 321. FILLET OF VEAL.—Choose it of the best quality. Procure a leg, saw off the knuckle, take out the bone in the centre of the fillet, and fill up the cavity with some stuffing made as directed, (see Receipt,) fold the under and flap round, which fix with three skewers; place half a sheet of buttered foolscap paper top and bottom, which tie over and over with plenty of string, run a spit through, fixing the fillet with a holdfast; set down to roast, placing it rather close to the fire ten minutes, rub well over with butter, then place it at least two feet and a half from the fire, to roast very slowly, giving it a fine gold colour; a fillet, weighing sixteen pounds would require four hours’ roasting, when done, take it up, detach all the string and paper, trim the top and set it upon your dish; have a pint of melted butter, in a stewpan upon the fire, to which, when boiling, add four spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, and two of mushroom catsup, mix well, and