314 SAVOURY DISHES. them in slices, lay them in a basin, season over with salt, pepper, nutmeg, slices of onion, parsley, a little oil and vinegar; put it in two hours before serving, and proceed as for lobster If theie is any fish left from the previous day, I always make a salad of it, particularly in summer; there are many who object to so much oil, in which case it may be diminished. 6/8. SALAD TARTAR.—Make as usual the border of eggs and sauce, lay the salad in the middle and the lobster over, which has been previously cut in slices ; pour over some of the same sauce as above, having added a tablespoonful of French mustard to it, or if you have it not, add some English, but it is not so good. Gherkins cut in slices and a few stoned olives. 679. PLAIN LOBSTER SALAD.—Take a lobster and sixpenny worth of any kind of salad, wash it well, dry in a cloth, cut the lobster up in a salad-bowl, sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of salt, half that of pepper, one of chopped tarragon or chervil, or parsley if nothing better, four tablespoonfuls of oil, and two of common vinegar, but only one and a half if French, add the salad, stir lightly round with a wooden knife and fork, and it is ready. 680. LOBSTER SERVED PLAIN.—Break the tail from the body, cut it in two lengthwise, put the body in the middle of the dish, lay the half tail top and bottom, and the claws on the side; ■ the shell previously broken, but not disfigured, and serve parsley round. 681. LOBSTER SALAD.—Dress a border of hard-boiled eggs, as directed in salad of game (No. 686), till the centre with some nice fresh salad, then take the flesh from a middling-sized lobster, which cut into as large slices as possible, which put into a basin, and season with a little pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar, after which dress them pyramidically upon the salad, and have ready the following sauce : put the yolks of two fresh eggs in a basin, Avith the yolk of a hard-boiled one rubbed through a sieve, add half a saltspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of white pepper, and commence stirring round with a wooden spoon with the right hand, holding a bottle of salad oil in the left, dropping it in by degrees and continually stirring ; when becoming thickish add a couple of spoonfuls of common vinegar by degrees, still keeping it stirred, then more oil, proceeding thus until you have