NEW COTTAGE EECEIPTS. 462 take off the scales and heads, lay two hours in salt and water, then drain all the water from them ; mix two pounds fine salt, two ounces ground pepper, two ounces ground allspice, quarter ounce ground nutmeg, quarter ounce pounded cochineal; lay some of this in the inside of each fish, then lay them in tiers in a deep pan, with a few bay-leaves, and with whole pepper between each tier, then fill with best vinegar, cover the pan or jar with strong wrhite paper, and bake in a very slow oven for six hours. The above will do equally well for herrings, mackerel, or conger eels; the same compound is very good for sprats, but the vinegar should be diluted as one to three. 23. PILCHARD PIE.—This is a most sumptuous dish. Clean your pilchards as for potting, lay them in with pepper and salt, cover with very nice paste, bake about an hour; when done remove the cover, pour off all the fat, and pour on, for a large pie, half a pint of cream, and serve. Mackerel are very good in the same way. 24. SAUCE FOR COD FISH.—Oysters being dear, I make mussel sauce, which is very fine and cheap. I well wash two quarts of mussels, put them in a pan with a little sliced onion, a little parsley, set on the fire for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour till they are open, pick them from the shell, beard them, pull away the small tuft of hair which is in every one of them, now and then you will find a small crab in them, which remove; this done, put them in a small pan, pour over them the liquor from your mussels, mix one ounce of flour with two ounces of butter, set the mussels on the fire, when boiling add the butter, a little pepper and sugar, drop of milk, stir round till boiling, and serve rather thick. When oysters are cheap I open a dozen, put to them a gill of water, two cloves, a little pepper and sugar, blanch them very slightly; mix the butter and flower like the above, stir round, add a gill of milk, and serve rather thick, with a little cayenne. 25. SCALLOPED OYSTERS.—Put about half a gill of water as above, when well blanched, add the butter mixed with flour, stir round, keep it thick, put them back in their shell with their sauce, three in each, cover thick with bread- crumb, set them in the oven until brown, and serve.