WATER. 86* Tlie different flavoured vinegars may be made by infusion, without the aid of heat, of the different substances from which the flavour is required. BOUQUET is a term often used in this book: when expressed alone, without naming the herbs which compose it, means parsley, &c. BOUQUET GARNI means a variety of herbs, and, when mentioned, the herbs which are composed are also named. BAIN MARIE, or, as it is called in the English kitchen, BtamM Pan, is a pan which contains water kept at a boiling state, in which are placed the other saucepans, &c., so that the contents should not be acted upon too strongly by the fire. This term is old, having its origin with the alchymists, who, finding that sea-water boiled at a high temperature, and did not evaporate so quickly, used a pan containing sea-water (mans, in French, of the sea); hence the term Bain Marie, or Sea-Water Bath. WATER. Upwards of 730,000 diurnal revolutions has this earth made round that grand luminary the sun, since one of its chief elements, W ater, attracted the attention of a celebrated philosopher, Hippocrates, who wrote upon the difference observable in that element. At a later period, Celsus gave direc- tions for examining the specific gravity; and Pliny attempted to direct his readers how to distinguish the salubrious from that which is unwholesome. In the middle ages, when the monomania existed for finding the philosopher s stone and the elixir vit«, considerable progress was made in discovering its constituent parts. But till the time of Boyle, or towards the close of the seventeenth century, no means had been discovered of analyzing water, or of pronouncing with certainty on its nature and properties. WATER which in the general way is thought so lightly of, is one of those elements used in cookery which is of the most important character. The best receipts in cookery may often be spoilt in consequence of the water, as it is by it that the flavour of everything is extracted, and upon the quality of the water much depends the nature of that extract. It is only eff late years that the economy of water has attracted die attention of th scientific; and I am fearful that the cook has not given it that attentio which so important a subject deserves.