NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 4G9 visit in their dwellings, for the purpose of teaching them a few profitable family dishes—I can tell you, without jesting, that I have seen as many as six country wives out of half-a-dozen who had literally spoiled both food and the appearance of their tarts and pies; they seemed to have been unfortunate enough to have all been favoured with the same receipt. Therefore I beg of you to let me have my own way, and tell the uninitiated housewife that she will economize and fare better by making her pies thus:— Throw a little flour on your paste-board; take about half a pound of your paste, which roll, with your hand, say an inch in circumference; moisten the rim of your pie-dish, and fix the paste equally on it with your thumb. When you have rolled your paste for the covering of equal thickness, in proportion to the contents of your pie (half an inch is about correct for the above description), fold the cover in two, lay on the half of your pie, turn the other half over, press slightly with your thumb round the rim; cut neatly the surplus of your paste, form rather a thick edge, which mark with a knife about every quarter of an inch from each other; mark, holding your knife in a very slanting way, which gives it a very neat appearance; make two small holes on the top. Egg over with a paste brush; if no eggs, use a drop of milk or water; the remaining paste may be shaped to fanciful designs to ornament the top. Notice, that if your paste is either too thick or too thin, the covering too narrow or too short, and require pulling one way or the other to make it fit, your pie .is sure to be imperfect, the covering no longer equally protecting the meat. It is the same with fruit; and° if the paste happen to be rather rich it pulls the rim of the pie to the dish, soddens the paste, makes it heavy, and therefore in- digestible as well as unpalatable; a little practice and common sense will, remedy all those little housewifery tribulations, and probably improve the appearance of this series of tart, No. 2. 48. THE POOR MAN’S POTATO PIE.—Wash and peel six pounds of good potatoes, cut in slices, take one pound of fat mutton or beef cut into small dice, mix the whole whh pepper and salt, cover witli ol paste, and bake one hour and Halt, and serve. H off,9; ,LAM,B AND parSLEY PIE—Take a large quantity flesh parsley, pour on it boiling water, drain and press out aU