SECOND COURSE. 331 729. CARROTS, PARSNIPS, AND TURNIPS, should be boiled in, plenty of water, in which some salt has been thrown: they should be boiled in the same size pieces that may be required to be sent to table, not whole, and cut up after- wards, and should be boiled very fast. These to be mashed should be well boiled, and then proceed in the same way as for potatoes, No. 733. POTATOES.—How curious it is, dearest, tliat two of the most simple pro- ductions of Nature— a plant and a root, which were introduced by that vreux chevalier of Queen Elizabeth, Sir Walter Raleigh—should have produced such •wonderful effects as they have upon society; and how singular it is that the one, which might naturally be supposed to be baneful, should be advantageous, and that which was beneficial should be a curse. Such has proved to be the case within these three years ; for whilst the first—tobacco—has produced a large revenue to the country to aid in supporting its administration, the latter —the potato—has tended to pauperize a large portion of the kingdom, and drained it of its wealth. This root still bears its original American name, signifying earth-apple, and is divided into many species. Amongst those most common in use are the regent, ash-leaf kidney; but, in the sister king- dom, Ireland, many other varieties are in use; as the lumper, reds, and blacks. There are as many different ways of cooking them as there are different species, which I will now describe. The nutritive qualities of the potato are small, possessing in 1000 parts only 200 to 260 of nutriment,—viz., 150 to 200 of starch, 15 to 20 sugar, and 30 to 40 gluten. 730. PLAIN BOILED or STEAMED POTATOES.— Well wash the potatoes and peel them, and throw them into cold water (that depends upon the kind; if new or young, or a kidney, they should be cooked, immediately after they are peeled, whilst others require to remain a long time in soak); have ready a steamer with boiling water in it, put the potatoes in the top, and steam for twenty to thirty minutes, and serve. Should you not have a steamer, and are obliged to boil them, do so by putting them into plenty of boiling water, and boil till tender or breaking, then pour them out into a colander, put a cloth over them, and put them in the screen, or before the fire, until you are ready to serve them; they ought always to be sent to table very hot. 731. BAKED POTATOES.—This is a very favourite dish with many persons; they ought to be of a large size, called Regents, and when cooked very floury. Mr. B. tells me he