262 entrees. mitting it to boil; when very hot, stir in three tablespoonfuls of cream, with which you have mixed the yolk of an e*g, and when beginning to thicken, dress it upon a dish with toasted or ii led sippets ^of bread around, cucumbers cut and dressed as directed p. 85, and added to the blaiiquette, are a very great improvement, as are likewise button mushrooms, or a few slices of cooked ham or tongue. For a Blanquette of Fowl, proceed precisely the same. 509. BOUDINS OF FOWL OR TURKEY.—Cut up the remains of a turkey or fowls into very small dice, with a quarter of a pound of lean cooked ham to each pound of meat, make a stock with the bones as directed in the last; put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots into a stewpan, with a piece of butter of the size of a walnut, which stir over the fire until the eschalots become a little yellowish, when stir in a good tablespoonful of flour, add the meat and about a pint of the stock, let boil gently a few minutes, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, stir the yolks of two eggs in quickly, and pour it out upon a dish until cold, when divide it into pieces of the size of eggs, which rub into long pieces of the shape and size of flat sausages, which egg and bread-crumb twice over, and fry of a nice brown colour in hot fat or dripping, drain upon a cloth, and serve very hot. 510. TURBAN OR CROQUETTES A L’EPIGRAMME. —Croquettes are made from the same preparation as the last, but made up into small pieces, two inches in length, and the thickness of your finger; egg, bread-crumb, and fry the same, dress in a circle upon a thin border of mashed potatoes, and serve with some blanquette of turkey or fowl in the centre. 511. HASHED GOOSE.—Put a spoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, which fry over the fire until becoming rather browned, then stir a tablespoonful of flour, put in the remains of a goose, cut into neat pieces, and well seasoned with pepper and salt; add a pint of stock, let the whole simmer about ten minutes, and it is ready to serve. A little apple sauce may be served separately in a boat, or a couple of apples sliced; a few leaves of bruised dried sage may be stewed with the hgsh. 512. STEWED DUCK WITH PEAS.—Truss a duck with the legs turned inside, which put into a stewpan with two