ADDENDA (III). LETTER No. XXV. Dear Eloise, Camilla Cottage, Nov. 29, 1852. Previously to giving you my “ Cottage Receipts,” I must inform you that my batterie de cuisine, though very small, is most useful for all my little made-dishes. I have three black saucepans, one gallon copper stewpan, a half gallon one, a double and a single gridiron, a large and small fryingpan, two large tinned copper spoons, one ladle, two wooden spoons, two sieves, one of wire, one paste brush, a rolling-pin, one kitchen knife, a steel, a meat-saw, a chopper, small mortar, pair of scales, six various sized brown basins, two round towels, twelve kitchen cloths, two tart dishes, and a good-sized earthenware pan, in which I make the beef a-la-mode, which you are so fond of. I think my kitchen a perfect little model, a regular little bijou de famille: contrary to any other woman I left our parlour to be furnished last, and with all my heart set to purchasing and providing for my little culinary sanctorum, the whole of whose contents I purchased for less than seven pounds, the copper articles being second- hand. So you will perceive that T was not very extravagant; but as many cottages have only one or two black iron pots, one fryingpan and a gridiron, for all their gastronomic exertions, I will in many instances only use these three cooking utensils. 3 The following is a series, as you will easily perceive, of simple and cheap receipts, which, in our present station of life and country appetite, we find excellent, nutritious, and economical. With regard to the Soup, sometimes I serve the meat separately, with a little sharp sauce, but not quite so rich as desenbed at page 77. Being desirous that the middle class should be less car- nivorous and more frugivorous, I beg them to make plentiful use of the following receipts, especially for different Soups, which are at once simple and economical! !'. MUTTON SOUP.—I cut two pounds of scrag of mutton in about ten pieces, but not too small; put it in the gallon non saucepan, with one ounce of salt, some pepper, two onions cut