464 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. minutes; put them into a pan in a cool place: all these safely preserved, I began to cook the ox kidneys in the following manner:—(Calf, lamb, and sheep’s liver may also be dressed the same as the following dish.) 28. OX KIDNEYS.—Cut in thin slices the fleshy part of the kidney, put the white part in your pot-au-fm. Put in the fryingpan two ounces of either butter, dripping, or lard, set on the fire when very hot, put in the pieces, fry quick, and toss or stir almost continually till rather firm, add to them two teaspoon- fuls of flour, one of chopped onions and parsley, half an ounce of salt, quarter ounce of pepper,and stir round; mix with two gills of broth or water, let simmer five minutes, and serve. The addition of a glass of sherry for those who can afford it, is an immense improvement, also a few mushrooms. 29. KIDNEY PIE.—Fry slightly, and season as above, but when about half done, put in your pie-dish with a gill of water, and cover with thin paste (No. 50), bake half an hour, and serve. 30. KIDNEY PUDDING.—Proceed as above, only add to it when fried, half a pound of tender rumpsteak, cut small, and some of the fat. Another way.—Line a basin rather thinly with paste (No. 44), put in the meat prepared as above, tie in a cloth, and boil half an hour. Twelve mussels blanched, or six large oysters, are very good in it. I sometimes flavour it with a little thyme, or winter savory, or bay-leaf. 31. BOILED OX FOOT.—I cut it in two, long way, boil half in water, in which I introduce a few herbs and onions; I make half a pint of rather thick melted butter, in which I place a few parsley leaves, and a little vinegar. Dish up and sauce over. For Tripe, see 549. 32. OX FOOT WITH SHARP SAUCE. — Proceed as above; put in your melted butter two tablespoonfuls of Soyer’s Relish, and no vinegar. Sauce over; those gelatinous substances are naturally insipid, and require to be highly seasoned. 33. SHEEP’S HEAD.—Put the four pieces of the head in the pan, cover them well over with water, and make mutton broth as No. 1. Eat the broth, and dress the head as fol- lows:—egg and bread-crumb the fleshy part of the cheek; put