EARLY LUNCHEONS. 27 napkin before each person, with, cups and saucers for tea or coffee, at choice, small plates for rolls, and a size larger for meat, sausages, eggs, &c., a small knife and fork for each; the butter in a pretty freezing butter-glass, just covered with clear spring-water, and garnished with a few sprigs of parsley or water-cresses ; the cream in a small china cream-jug, and a larger jug con- taining hot milk for coffee; orange marmalade in its original pot, honey- comb, water-cresses, and once a few nice young radishes, which were excel- lent, although a little out of season; one day also dry toast was served, another day buttered, the next muffins, then crumpets, white and brown bread, and small rolls, thus making a continual change, but all so small and inviting. I shall always, when I have company, as you had then, arrange everything in the same manner, especially now that I have your receipts written down. But when you are alone, you tell me you never make any such display, which of course would be ridiculous ; still even then you vary, by having either tea, coffee, or chocolate, which change I like as well as you. I seldom partake of meat, but Mr. L generally likes a little broiled bacon, or boiled eggs, things in themselves veiy simple and pleasant to have upon the table. Yours, in haste, Eloise. EARLY LUNCHEONS. LETTER No. IV. Mr dear Friend,—I feel perfectly satisfied with the manner in which you have classified my receipts respecting the breakfasts, and I must say I felt very much interested in looking over them : I am confident they would prove interesting and instructive to any young housekeeper ; I hope, there- fore, you will preserve the originals, as I do not keep any copies, fearing they would confuse me by making reference to them ; so that, if at any future time I should make a repetition in other series, you would be able to correct me, for I am as willing as yourself that we should complete our Journal by going through eveiy series comprising meals of the day. Ihe next meal, then, to breakfast, in the ordinary course of events, is the luncheon. Although it is a meal we never touch ourselves, I am aware many small families make it a regular one, so our little journal would not be com- plete without some few remarks, which I intend making as short and concise as possible. When wo were in business, our luncheons were comprised of any cold meats which were cooked for previous dinners ; if a joint of cold roast