THE NURSERY DINNER. 29 mutton, as also curries, minced veal and poached eggs, cold pies of game, poultry, mutton, beefsteak, or pigeon, as also plain mutton cutlets, steaks, and broiled bonee, the whole of which may be served for luncheon, I must Refer you to the series of Receipts belonging to the Dinner; any of these articles are placed in order upon the table, with the pickle-stand, two different cruet-sauces, orange marmalade, potatoes, butter, cheese, sherry and port wines. This style of luncheon, will no doubt surprise you, but I can assure you it scarcely increases my expenditure, having the same num- ber to provide for daily, so that the luncheon is generally made up from the remains of dinner, and the remains of luncheon will dine our three servants at half-past one. In the summer, I introduce a few dishes of fruit, and less meat; and when there are several ladies, I often introduce some English- made wine, which once I used to make myself, but which I can now buy cheaper. THE NURSERY DINNER. LETTER No. V. Dear Friend,—Now here I must call your especial attention to the way many people treat this department of domestic comfort, which is often very slight and irregular. Now, for my part, I have made quite a study of it, and could pi ove that health is always dependent on the state of the digestive organs ; and that, if you should improperly treat young stomachs, by over or under supplying their wants, or using them to ill-cooked food, you not only destroy the functionary coating of the stomach, but also impede the develop- ment of the intellect. It is, then, as much a science to manage the food of children, as to cater for the palate of the gourmet, and I shah always con- sider that good food is to the body what education is to the mind. My plan of managing the nursery meals is as follows :—At eight o’clock in the morning, which was my usual time, I used myself to prepare that glutinous food upon which our ancestors and race were first reared, rather unclassically denominated Pap. My method was very simple : . PAP- Put two ounces of rusk, or tops and oottoms, m a small saucepan, with just sufficient water to moisten them; set the saucepan upon the fire until its contents are thoroughly warm through ; pour a little of the water