SECOND COURSE. 323 onions, a bouquet of six sprigs of parsley, one ounce of sugar, two saltspoonfuls of salt, and one of pepper, place over a tolerably good fire, moving them often; if getting rather dry, add a wineglassful of water, twenty minutes ought to be enough; when tender, add one ounce of butter, in which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour, which put in and stir well; make a liaison of the yolk of one egg, a quarter of a gill of cream, which add and stir; take out the parsley and onions, and serve. 69S. ANOTHER WAY.—When large, I stew them with two cabbage-lettuces cut in two, and stew longer; put in four wineglassfuls of water, or more, if required, and finish as above. To keep their colour, I often proceed thus for entrees or second courses: I plain boil as above, and put them in a stew- pan, with four small onions, a little mint, parsley, butter, sugar, and a drop of water, simmer a few minutes, add as above the flour, butter, and liaison, and serve; they are very good this way, but not so rich in flavoui'. There are different kinds, but I prefer the Prussian blue above all. 699. SEAKALE.—Proceed exactly as for asparagus for boiling, but previously to boiling cut out the black part of the roots; well wash and tie them about six together, serve with the same sauce as asparagus. There is a kind of seakale which (should you not be dealing with a regular tradesman) you may purchase, that is rank and stringy, and not worth eating; it may be known, when raw, by the outside near the root, which is very tough and hard; the middle size ones are the best. 700. SPRUE-GRASS.—The longer the green part the better the sprue; take each piece and gently bend it, and it will break oflt at that part which you require, beyond it is too hard, and cannot be eaten; when you thus have the pieces, cut them into lengths of a quarter of an inch, which well wash; have one gallon of water, into which put one ounce of salt, and boil, then put in the sprue and boil for ten minutes, or till tender, then rain on a sieve, put them in a stewpan, with two ounces of resh butter, half a teaspoonful of flour, the same of salt, two pinches of pepper, half a gill of milk, and place on the fire, stir well together for ten minutes, and serve hot. The yolk of an egg, well beaten with two spoonfuls of cream, may be added to it* ®nd wten serving, also two spoonfuls of white sauce or melted y 2