408 CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. about half an hour, during which time the chambermaids have been attend- ing to the bed-rooms and drawing-room, &c. If I go out or not, I always get my toilet finished by twelve o’clock; I thus have one hour to write notes, or see tradesmen or my dressmaker, and Monday mornings check and pay my tradesmen’s accounts, and to dress. If I stop at home I amuse myself by reading, or going to see the children in the nursery, or sometimes go again into the kitchen and assist the cook on some new receipt or preparation, and ofien have several calls; during the course of the morning the two maids scour out alternately one or two of the rooms, according to size, except on M ednesdays, when one of them is otherwise engaged. Mr. B. arrives home at twenty minutes to five, and at half-past five we dine; the cloth is laid, and everything prepared as if we had company; it may be a 1 ttle more trouble to the servants; but when we do have any friends they find it less so; besides it is always uncertain but what Mr. B. may bring so ebody home with him, and it prevents slovenly habits; the two maids, with the exception of Wednesdays, are always ready to attend on us. I never allow the coachman to defile our carpets with his stable shoes; all his duties in the house are—the first thing in the morning to clean the knives and forks for the day, for enough are kept out for that purpose, clean the boots and shoes, and those windows the maids cannot easily get at, and assist in the garden if required. Many have made the remark to me, that as you have a male servant why not have him wait at table. I reply that the duties of the stable are incompatible with those of the table, and if he does his duty properly he has enough to do. The servants dine at one—the nursery dinner is at the same hour—and have tea at a quarter to five, by which time the cook has the dinner ready, all but to take it from the fire, and the maids the dining-room ready. After dinner, should we be alone, we have the children and the governess down; if we have company we do not see them; they go to bed at a quarter to eight, and we have tea and coffee at eight; the governess comes and passes the rest of the evening with us; eleven is our usual hour of retiring, before which Mr. B. likes his glass of negus, a biscuit, or a sandwich, which is brought upon a tray. Mrs. L.—What you have described to me is all very well, yet I am certain, that if I go and try to do the same to-morrow, I shall not succeed; how is it that you have everything in its place, and I never hear a word said to the servants ? Mrs. B.—It is because they all know their duties, and if they should in any way neglect them, I think of the maxim, bear and forbear, for none of us are perfect, and I take an opportunity when I may be alone with them to tell them quietly of their faults. Some mistresses will go into the kitchen, and be angry with them before the other servants; the consequence is, that as soon as her back s turned they all begin to laugh. A ridiculous incident of this kind occurred the other evening at Mrs. G.’s. We missed her out of