CARVING OF POULTRY. 453 -divide the tendons in the joints, the toughness of which is the difficulty to be overcome, and often abandoned to make a desperate cut at the bones; hence arise the accidents above mentioned. The following instructions will enable all cooks and poul- terers to prepare game and poultry for the table, perfectly free from opposition to any carver’s knife. THE TENDON SEPARATOR Is represented shut when done with, by merely slipping the brass ring to keep the spring in its place, and open when in the act of being used; the straight part of the handle, with the ring, resting in the palm of the hand between the thumb and the fore- finger. When about separating the tendons and otherwise dividing other parts of your fowl or bird, you begin by turning the skin over the wings and cutting the tendons (No. 1, p. 454) in each of the joints; and then by taking hold of that part com- monly called the drumstick, with your right hand, and the skin being already turned, you can easily get at the joint (No. 2) by making it come out, to cut the tendons of each leg; on turning the Separator with the points upwards, you give a cut at the breast-bone (No. 4); and, by holding the instrument with both hands, immediately after turning the points downwards, you also give a cut at the back-bone (No. 5), and then, the four tendons being cut,, the limbs are brought back to their former position. Then you introduce the instrument into the body at the other end of the bird, and with your left hand you take hold of the thigh- bone, which you also divide at No. 3, and again turning the points downwards, you give another cut at the back-bone No. o; with. little practice, the cuts at the breast and back-bone are made without interfering in the least with the skin; then you truss the bird in the common way, but a packing-needle and thiead are to be preferred. When roasted, the appearance of the poultry is vastly improved by this simple operation, it looks more plump on account of the sinews having lost their power of contraction whilst roasting; therefore, 'when the bird comes to table, the carver has merely to pass the knife in the usual manner to take up the wings and legs, and finds no resistance; the same -it the breast and the back,°where