267 ENTREES. three pieces, at the bottom of a pie-dish with the two legs on either side; have half a pound of cooked ham or bacon in slices, a layer of which cover over, then lay in the two wings, and over them the breast, cut into two pieces, which, with the remainder of the ham or bacon, form into a dome in the middle, pour half a pint of white sauce over, if handy, or a little broth or water, cover with paste, and bake as directed for the last. If no white sauce, dip each piece lightly in flour. 526. GIBLET PIE.—When the giblets have been taken from the goose as directed in No. 393, place them, with the exception of the liver, but with the pinions, feet, head, and neck, into boiling water to blanch; remove the skin from the feet and beak, put into a stewpan a piece of butter the size of a walnut, one onion cut in slices, a bay-leaf, a little salt, pepper, and sugar: place it oh the fire until the onion is brown, place in the giblets with the head cut in two, let them remain on the fire for about three minutes, stirring them round; then add one quart of boiling water and let them stew gently for two hours, remove from the fire and let them get cold. Take a pie- dish and place a piece of steak on the bottom, then place over that the giblets with the liver, and steak again over them, add the liquor the giblets were stewed in, season and cover with half puff paste. 52/. RABBIT PIE.—Cut a nice rabbit into joints, splitting the head in halves, and lay them in lukewarm water half an hour to disgorge, then dry them upon a cloth, season well with pepper, salt, chopped eschalots, parsley, two bay-leaves, and a spoonful of flour; have also three-quarters of a pound of un- cooked streaked bacon, cut into square pieces the size of walnuts, build up the pieces of rabbit and bacon together, in a pie dish, commencing with the worst pieces, and forming a dome; pour in a little water, cover with paste, and bake as directed for rumpsteak pie. 528. PIGEON PIE.—Line the bottom of a pie-dish with a pound of rumpsteak, cut into slices not too thin, seasoned with a little salt, pepper, and cayenne, and dipped into flour; have ready picked and drawn a couple of pigeons, cut off the feet turn the legs in, fold up the pinions of the wings, and lay them breast to breast upon the meat, have the yolks of four hard boBed eggs, which put at the sides, sprinkle a little pepper and salt