363 SECOND COURSE. 841. GOOSEBERRY, Rhubarb, Currants, red, ivhite, and black, Raspberry and Cherry, Blackberry, Whorts, Damson, and Greengage—may all be made in a similar way. 842. MINCE MEAT.—Procure four pounds and a half of kidney beef suet, which skin and chop very finely, have also a quarter of a pound of candied lemon and orange-peel; the same of citron, a pound and a half of lean cooked beef, and three pounds and a half of apples, the whole separately chopped very fine, and put into a large pan with four pounds and a half of currants, well washed and picked, two ounces of mixed spice, and two pounds of sugar; mix the whole well together with the juice of eight lemons and a pint of brandy, place it in jars, and tie down until ready for use; a pound and a half of Malaga raisins, well stoned and chopped, may likewise be added to the above. It is ready for use in a few days. The mince meat as made at Windsor Castle every year, and made one month previous to using, is as follows: 2401bs. raisins; 4001bs. currants; 200ibs. lump sugar; 31bs. cinnamon; 31bs. nutmegs; 31bs. cloves; 31bs. ground allspice; 21bs. ginger; 3001bs. beef; 3501bs. suet; 24 bushels of apples; 240 lemons; 301bs. of cedret; 72 bottles of brandy; 31bs. mace; 601bs. lemon-peel; 601bs. orange-peel. 843. MINCE PIES.—Have a piece of puff-paste, which roll out to the thickness of a penny piece; have also a dozen tartlet- pans, which lightly butter, cut out twelve pieces with a round cutter from the paste, each the size of your tartlet-pans; lay them upon the slab, roll the trimming of the paste again to the former thickness, cut twelve other pieces, with which line the tartlet-pans; put a piece of mince-meat, made as above, in each, wet them round, place on the lids, pricking a hole with a pin in the centre, and close them well at the edges; egg over lightly, and bake about twenty miuutes in a moderate oven. 844. FRUIT PIES.—These are made in pie dishes, the top of which is only covered with paste; the edge of the dish should be wetted, and a strip of paste, about one inch wide and a quarter of an inch thick, put on it, then fill the dish with the fruit, wet the paste on the edge, and cover with paste, mark the ed«-e with a roller, or the back of a knife.