SECOND COURSE. 357 ounce of cinnamon, a little grated nutmeg, half of the peel of a lemon, and a bay-leaf; simmer over a slow fire, stirring till the isinglass is dissolved, pass it through a napkin into a basin, and pour into a mould. This can be made of any colour or flavour that will not curdle the milk; the milk of bitter almonds may be added to flavour it. Arney’s blancmanger powder is excellent. 818. ANOTHER. — Put into bowl about a pint of clear calf’s-foot jelly warm, break six eggs, beat the yolks and pour them gradually into the jelly, beating all the time; put on the fire and whisk till nearly boiling, set it on ice or in cold water, keep stirring till nearly cold, and fill your mould. You may add whatever flavour you like. 819. TRIFLES should be made early in the day on which they are wanted; take a stale Savoy cake, cut it in slices of one inch thick, and lay it on the bottom of the dish; lay on that a thin layer of any kind of marmalade, jam, or jelly, have some macaroons and ratafia cakes, and lay on and cover the whole with some sponge cakes. For a dish nine inches in diameter, mix two glasses of sherry, one of brandy, half a one of rum, and the same of noyeau, and pour over, and let it remain until it is well soaked, then pour over about one inch thick of rich custard; put a pint of cream into a bowl, with some sifted sugar, a squeeze of a lemon, and about a tablespoonful of the wine, &c., you have put on the cake, whisk it well up. I use a trifle-blower, which saves some trouble; I also use it for all whipped cream; and as the Iroth rises remove it with a spoon on to a clean sieve, where let it drain, then place it on the custard until it is high and handsome. I have occasionally, when being in a hurry, and having no cream by me, proceeded as above, and made the whip with the whites of eggs, and some very white peach or egg-plum marma- lade together, until it makes firm froth or whip, which put on the custard; this may also be coloured a nice pink. Trifles are generally considered unwholesome; I think it is because they are often made too long before they are wanted, and no spirit is used in the cake, the consequence is, the cream turns sour. The remains of this make an excellent pudding.