XV INTRODUCTION. LETTER No. I. From Mrs. L to Mrs. B . Oatlands Cottage; Jan. 1st, 1849. My dear Uortense,—Upon my arrival at liome, I am happy to say that I found all quite well, and delighted to see me, after (to them) so long an absence as a fortnight, which my husband was gallant enough to say appeared months; but to myself the time appeared to pass very swiftly: for, indeed, every day I felt so much more interested in watching closely how well you managed your household affairs, that, believe me, you have quite spoiled me, especially with your recherche style of cookery, which even now I cannot make out how you could do it at such moderate expense: and, apropos of cooking, Mr. L., expecting me home at dinner, had, I have no doubt, a long interview and discussion with Cook, respect- ing the bill of fare. “ Well, sir,” I will suppose she said, “ what can be better than a fine fat goose, stuffed with sage and ingyons : we have a very fine ’un hanging in the larder.” (You must observe, dear, that my cook is plain in every way.) “ A very excellent notion, that, Cook; nothing can be better than a good goose;” was, no doubt, my husband’s answer, who, although very fond of a good dinner, cannot endure the trouble of ordering it. Well, then, here I am in my little drawing-room (the window slightly open), enjoying the fresh country air, which seems to have been amalgamated with a strong aroma from the aforesaid goose, especially the sage and onions; and I am almost certain that the inseparable apple-sauce is burnt or upset on the stove, from the brown smoke now ascending from the grating over the kitchen win- dow. This style is now to me quite unbearable, and I mean to have quite a reform in my little establishment, and first of all to bring- ud my daughter in the way recommended by Mr. B. to his friend to make her more domesticated than I am myself, as I begin to per- mve that a knowledge of household affairs is as much required as nationnfUallCdrC ; f°r myparfc) 1 W come to the determi- W W d°P g?;0Ur SySJem 0f management as closely as possible; at, you must know, that, without your scientific advice, it will