414 BILLS OF FARE. The Sunday’s dinner I used to vary; one time Beef, another Mutton, another Pork or Veal, and sometimes a Baked Sucking Pig; our living then, including a good Breakfast and Tea, cost us about 32s. per week for six persons. In case we had a few friends, we used to make an addition by having Pish, Leg of Mutton, Roast Fowls, Pickled Pork, and Peas Pudding, with a Mould Pudding, Fruit Tart, and a little dessert. This was for the first two years; our means and business then increasing, and having the three young men to dine with us, we were of course obliged to increase our expenditure, and to alter our mode of li ving, besides which I had accompanied Mr. B. to France, where my culinary ideas received a great improvement. The following is the plan we then adopted:— Sunday.—Pot-au-Feu, Fish—Haunch of Mutton, or a quarter of Lamb, or other good joint—Two Vegetables—Pastry and a Fruit Pudding— A little Dessert. Monday.—Vermicelli Soup made from the Pot-au-Feu of the day previous— The Bouilli of the Pot-au-Feu—Remains of the Mutton—Two Vegetables—Fruit Tart. Tuesday.—Fish—Shoulder of Veal stuffed—Roast Pigeons, or Leveret or Curry—Two Vegetables—Apples with Rice, and light Pastry. Wednesday.—Spring Soup—Roast Fowls, Remains of Veal minced, and poached Eggs—1Two Vegetables—Rowley Powley Pudding. Thursday.—Roast Beef—Remains of Fowl—1Two Vegetables—Sweet Omelet. Friday. —Fish—Shoulder of Lamb—Miroton of Beef—Two Vegetables— Baked Pudding. Saturday. —Mutton Broth—Boiled Neck of Mutton—Liver and Bacon—Two Vegetables—Currant Pudding. Our parties then, when we had them, never consisted of more than ten. We had: Julienne Soup—Fish—A Quarter of Lamb—Vegetables, Cutlets Vegetables, Bacon and Beans—Boiled Turkey—Pheasant Jelly or Cream Pastry—Lobster Salad—Omelet or Souffle—Dessert, &c. At present, though the number of our establishment is not greater, yet the style and manner of our living have changed. We dine alone, except when Mr. B. invites somebody to dine with him, which is most generally the case; our daily bill of fare consists of something like the following: One Soup or Fish, generally alternate—One Remove, either Joint or Poultry—One Entr6e—Two Vegetables—Pudding or Tart—A little Dessert. This may seem a great deal for two persons; but when you remember that we almost invariably have one or two to dine with us, and the remains are