368 REMOVES, a pound of sugar; when cold, and an hour and a quarter before you are ready to serve, whip the whites of the ten eggs very stiff, stir them in with the mixture lightly, pour it into the croustade, and bake about an hour in a moderate oven, if going too fast, and liable to be done before required, open the oven door, as it ought to be served the moment it is done; when ready to serve take it from the oven, detach the band of paper, take it from the mould, dress it upon a napkin on a dish, and serve immediately. These souffles may be baked in a silver souffle-case, if pre- ferred, they will take considerably less time in baking, but fall quicker after being taken from the oven; any liqueur or spirits may be introduced in souffles of this description if approved of. This is large enough for a dinner of eighteen; a quarter of that quantity will make a nice family one, baked in a plain tart-dish. 857. SOUFFLE OF ORANGE-FLOWERS.— Proceed exactly as in the last, but infusing an ounce of candied orange- flowers in the milk instead of the vanilla. 858. SOUFFLE OF RICE CREAM is made by using ground rice instead of the common flour, finishing the same, and using any of the flavours directed in the last three. 859. SOUFFLE OF LEMON.—Proceed as directed for souffle a la vanille, but infusing the rind of two lemons, free from pith, in the milk instead of the vanilla. 860. OMELET SOUFFLE.—Break six eggs, place the yolks in one basin and the whites in another; add to the yolks three tablespoonfuls of lump sugar, half one of fecule of potato or wdieat flour, and ten drops of orange flower-water; beat well together; whip the whites, beginning rather slowly at first, increasing by degrees, until it forms a stiff froth; then add the yolks, very gently beating up the whites as you add it: have ready a silver or plated dish (for want of either use tin;, and butter it well; place the mixture on it, and put it into a hot oven; look that it rises; if so, run a knife round it; sift some sugar on it, place it in the oven again, and serve, when well raised, immediately. 861. OMELET SOUFFLE SAUTE.—The mixture is pre- pared precisely as the last, but the appearance and flavour