ENTREES. 279 put in the prawns, and stew gently about a quarter of an hour, when they will be ready to serve; rice separate. If no curry paste, powder may be used, but the paste is far preferable. Shrimps may also be curried in the same way, but they are in general so very salt, that they requii-e to be well soaked. 564. SALMON CURRY. — Have two slices of salmon, weighing about a pound each, which cut into pieces of the size of walnuts, cut up two middling-sized onions, which put into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter and a clove of garlic cut in thin slices, stir over the lire until becoming rather yellowish; then add a tablespoonful of curry powder and half that quantity of curry paste, mix all well together with a pint of good broth, beat up and pass through a tammy into a stewpan, put in the salmon, which stew about half an hour, pour off as much of the oil as possible; if too dry, moisten with a little more broth, mix- ing it gently, and serve as usual, with rice separate. Salmon curry may also be made with the remains left from a previous dinner, in which case reduce the curiy sauce until leather thick befoi’e putting in the salmon, which only inquires to be made hot in it. The remains of a turbot may also be cun’ied in the same way, and also any kind of fish. 565. FILLET OF SOLE CURRY.—Fillet two nice soles, and cut each fillet into five pieces (slantwise); then in a stew- pan have a small onion chopped fine and fried; to which add a tablespoonful of curry paste, or an equal quantity of paste and powder; when well mixed, put in the fillets of soles, with just sufficient broth to cover them; let it boil rather fast for ten minutes, when the sauce will become sufficiently thick to envelop the fish, season with the juice of half a lemon, and serve with rice separately. Fillets of haddocks or whitings are curried precisely the same. 566. SKATE CURRY.—Plain boil about two pounds of skate with a piece of the liver, which put upon a dish without a napkin, previously well draining off the water; whilst the fish is boiling cut two onions in slices, which put into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and fry of a lightish brown colour; then mix in a tablespoonful of curry powder with a tsaspoonful of hour, and a pint of good broth, set it upon the fire, keeping it