30 THE NURSERY DINNER. aw a}', if too thin, pressing the rusk with a spoon: then ado a teaspoonful of white or brown sugar, and beat the whole with a spoon until quite a pulp; it is then ready for use. I have seen some poor people in the country make it with a stale piece of' bread, previously well dried and lightly toasted before the fire, and you could scarcely tell the difference from rusks; and you must observe, that people in a countiy village cannot always supply themselves with everything in the way of luxury ; but look at the greater part of those country urchins, —are they not a real picture of health ? for, after all, nothing is more ad- vantageous to a delicate child than country air and country food. When Mr. B. and myself were staying at Boulogne for a few weeks, I was astonished to hear that everybody used to put their children out to nurse. I was so surprised, that I made every inquiry, and found it literally true; that even respectable tradespeople sent their children a mile or two out in the country, some to the houses of very poor people : I cannot say that I approve of such a style of bringing up infants, but even there they seem as healthy and as joyful as possible. I also found there something to be learned, and that was, how to make French pap, which I think very nutritious, but which I con- sidered at the time rather heavy for our climate; but having afterwards made a trial of it upon our little Henry, I found him doing so extremely well, that I continued feeding him upon it for nearly eight months, until he was old enough to eat other food. The following is the receipt: 50. FRENCH PAP.—Put a tablespoonful of flour into a pap saucepan, to which add by degrees two gills of milk, mixing it into a very smooth batter with a wooden spoon ; place the saucepan upon the fire, let it boil ten minutes, keeping it stirred the whole time, or it is liable to bum or become brown, then add about half an ounce of sugar and a little salt, put it into a basin, and it is ready for use. A little butter is also very good in it. You will observe, that it is more difficult and troublesome to make than our pap; but when used to it you will expend no more tune over it; and, as the French people say, cooking is all pleasure and no trouble. But what convinces me that it is more palatable and nutritious is, that I have seen a very robust man make a hearty dinner of two plates of it, by intro- ducing bread in it. I have no doubt that our own hasty pudding was taken