466 NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. bottom, one pound of lean bacon cut in large dice. I then put the two cheeks, the gelatinous part of a previously boiled ox- foot over, season with two ounces of salt, half ounce black pepper, four sprigs of thyme, two bay leaves, six or seven cloves, sprigs of parsley, cover with four more onions, four more pieces of bacon, add half pint of water, put the cover over, make a little paste with flour and water, as thick as for tarts, wet the rim or the joint of your pan, cover it with your paste to keep the contents of it free from air, set in a slow oven or send to a baker for three hours; remove the lid, and a most delicious fragrance will exhale from it; take out the herbs and fat with a spoon, dish your onions and bacon and ox-foot round the dish, put the cheeks in the centre, pour the rich gravy over, and I assure you, dear Eloise, that you never have eaten anything more delicious, as a savoury dish; the poor people buy those excellent things, ox cheek, but merely boil them in water for one hour, and try to masticate them, all for want of that which I often entertain you about—a common School of Domestic Economy; which one single lesson, I am certain, would teach them better. 42. Another Way.—Cut the cheek lengthway, the bacon and ox-foot the same; put in the pan as above with some season- ing, and bake, let it get partly cold before opening, take the herbs and fat off, arrange symmetrically in a deep pie dish, entirely mixing bacon, meat, and vegetables together, pour the gravy over, press lightly, when cold, turn it out on a dish; it is most relishing, and will keep for days very good; cut across in thin slices, it will be very inviting for any season of the year." 43. YEAL PUDDING A LA LETHWICH. Dear Eloise,—Having just been presented with, an excellent receipt of a pudding worthy of a gala day, I cannot resist giving it immediate publicity. The crust of this pudding is made with veal suet instead of beef; the inside is lined completely with thin slices of undressed ham, and is then filled up with alternate layers of lean veal cut from the kidney end of the loin, also thin slices of the kidney with a little of the fat, and add 12 oysters as a variation, for oysters * I cooked a rabbit in this way yesterday, and it was exquisite. I merely added two carrots, cut in slices, and baked it one hour aud a half.