243 ENTREES. it a little more, dish it up by the placing pieces in a circle and the turnips in the centre, sauce over, and serve very hot—(if not, it is spoiled.) For those that like it, a small piece of scraped garlicmay be added. Onions, carrots, peas, &c., may be used in. place of the turnips. This is a very favourite dish in France; I learnt it from an old French Emigre, who used to visit us about ten years since. When I have company, I use the chops of the neck, dress them in a crown, placing the vegetables in the centre; I find them very much liked. I have at some houses partaken °f. karico-mutton which has been tolerably good, but nothing in flavour to this plan. If there is any left, it is good warmed again, or even cold. 461. IRISH SPEW.—Cut up about two pounds of the neck of the mutton into small cutlets, which put into a proper sized stewpan with some of the fat of the mutton, season it with half a tablespoonful ot salt, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, the same of sugar, six middle-sized onions, a quart of water; set them to boil and simmer for half an hour, then add six middling-sized potatoes, cut them in halves or quarters, stir it together, and let it stew gently for about one hour longer; if too fat, remove it from the top, but if well done the potatoes will absorb all of it, and eat very delicate; any other part of the mutton may be served in the same way. . ^ k°Pe' dearest ——, that you will not blame my apparent vulgar taste in saying that I am fond of an Irish stew, but I always recommend it to my friends; and often add a bay leaf to it, which varies the flavour. LETTER No. XIV. Dearest Eloise,—I certainly here must avail myself of M. Soyer’s kind permission by taking from his “Gastronomic Regenerator” a ve^y simple 2 i™ ’,wof 7 w,f\iD "y h“ * *«* z* ->* “t fTr” ’7 lik? «»a think I ampins to am far f +1/SU, tnfllng imp0rtance> buf indeed, I assure you that I am for from that, because I have tried it for my dinner to day, and n my opinion it is as far superior to the other as silver is to copper; novelty1 in°the Tv™ era of like ours, that such a ovelty m the culmary department could have been produced; where steam, gas, railways, electric light, suspended bridges, which seem to flv ind° 2 subtaCr0SS thC b0S°m 1 °Ur ™ighty' W6althy’ °ld Father Thames FT*** h“ ^ percba bed, where, ^ rench say, the fishes from their windows make faces at the English It 2