371 SECOND COURSE. over the fire a quarter of an hour, then add the yolks of eight eggs, three quarters of a pound of grated Parmesan, and half a pound of Stilton cheese in small dice, season rather highly with pepper, salt, and cayenne, add the white of the eggs whipped very stiff, which stir in lightly; have a dozen and a half of small paper cases, fill each one three parts full, place them in a moderate oven, bake about twenty minutes; when done dress them upon a napkin on your dish, and serve very hot. 871. CHEESE RAMINOLE.—Put a gill of water in a stewpan, to which add two ounces of Gruyere and the same quantity of Parmesan cheese (grated), two ounces of butter, a little cayenne pepper, and salt if required, set it upon the fire, and when boiling stir in two or three spoonfuls of flour; keep stirring over the fire until the paste becomes dryish and the bottom of the stewpan quite white, then add three or four eggs by degrees, until forming a paste like No. 785, butter a baking- sheet well, and lay the paste out in pieces upon it with a table- spoon, making them long and half the size of the bowl of the spoon; egg over, and lay a small piece of Gruyere cheese upon each, put them into the oven about twenty minutes before they are required; bake them a little crisp, and serve very hot, dressed in pyramid upon a napkin. 872. PUFF CHEESECAKE.—Make half a pound of paste (No. 747), which roll very thin, have ready some grated Par- mesan and Gruyere cheese mixed, throw half a handful over the paste, which fold in three, roll it out to the same thickness again, cover again with cheese, proceeding thus until you have used the whole of the cheese (half a pound), then cut them into any shapes you like with pastry cutters, set on a wet baking-sheet, egg them over, bake a nice colour in a moderate oven, dress in pyramid upon a napkin on a dish, and serve very hot. 873. CHEESE SOUFFLE, or DIABLOTINS. — Put a gill of milk in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter; when boiling, stir in two spoonfuls of flour, keep stirring over the fire until the bottom of the stewpan is dry, then add four eggs by degrees, half a pound of Gruyere, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese; mix well in, season with pepper, salt, and cayenne, rather hi«-hly’ mould the paste into little balls with the forefinger against the side of the stewpan containing it, drop them into hot&lard; fry ot a nice light brown, dress in pyramid upm a napkin, and serve B B 2