SECOND COURSE. 296 are best in autumn, when they are fat; they leave this country as soon as frost sets in. They are said to take their name from Canute, a Danish king, celebrated in English history for his reproof to his courtiers, who, it is reported, was exceedingly fond of them. They should be cooked like Snipes or Woodcocks. 631. RUFFES AND REEVES {le Combattant).—The first is the male, the latter the female; they are best at the latter end of May. They are caught in nets, and then kept in boxes, and fed on the following food:—two tablespoonfuls of wheat, one penny roll, one teaspoonful of hemp-seed, and a tablespoonful of sugar, boiled together in a pint of milk. Cook like Woodcocks. 632. LANDRAIL, CORNCRAKE, or DAKERHEN {le Rale de Genet).—This is a very nice bird about the latter end of August and September, when they are very fat; they are best caught in nets and fed; in cooking, proceed as for Larks. 633. WATER-RAIL, SPOTTED GALLINULE, OR WATERCRAKE.—This bird differs altogether from the former, and is a distinct species of itself; the heart is most delicious eating; it should be dressed and served like the Widgeon. 634. FIELDFARE {la Tourdelle).—In season in autumn, until the middle of December. 635. RED WING, WIND THRUSH, SWINE-PIPE {le Mauvis).—These two birds should be caught alive, either in net or by bird-lime, and fed for some days previous to killing ; their food should consist of juniper berries, pounded figs, and bread; when fat and fed thus, they are excellent, and should be cooked like the Quail. These birds are the Turdi of the Romans. 636. THRUSH {Greve).—These should be eaten twenty- four hours after being killed. Pluck and take out entrails, leave the liver, cover with two vine leaves and a slice of bacon or pickled pork, and put in an oven or toast before the fire for ten minutes. These are not much in use in England, but are thought a delicacy by our neighbours on the Continent. 637. CURLEW {le Courlis).—The little Curlew, Curlew Jack, or Whimbrel {le petit Courlis).—These birds are most in season in April. I have had them from Kent and Sussex of most excellent eating; they should be cooked like Teal.