374 DESSERT. advantage of mixing in so many different societies. For the last few years an abundance of the natural ones from the est Indies has in some respects injured the high estimation bestowed on this delicious fruit, but still a good and large English pine, like the one I have mentioned above, will always maintain its dignity and price. I know, dearest, what will be your feeling after the perusal of the above, that I have given vent to a little scandal; but it is the truth, and of almost daily occurrence, so that there is no mystery about it. I do not mean that it is very general, but is certainly often practised; for my part, you know my style; I never attempt to astonish my guests with extensive wonders of nature and art in any shape of eatable, but simply follow the middle prices by which I always can procure the best quality of article in comestibles ; and nothing pleases me more when I give a party than that every dish on the table should be partaken of, and still more so when entirely eaten. I do not approve of meanness; though a great economist, I abhor it as much as I do extravagance; and we never, I assure you, give a single party without being perfectly satisfied that it does not interfere with our daily comforts, that is, as regards financial matters. For dessert in summer I confine it entirely to fresh fruit, compotes, ices, and a few almond cakes, and Savoy biscuits. Fruits, preserves, oranges, compotes, and biscuits in winter. The list of names I here inclose to you consists of moderately-priced articles, and will enable you to make a good appearance for your dessert, and at a trifling expense. The first thing I wish you to be initiated in is, what is called in France ‘compote,’ which may be made almost from any kind of fruits, especially apples, pears, apricots, plums, greengages, peaches, cherries, gooseberry, oranges, &c. It was on my second visit to Havre that I took lessons in con- fectionery; I paid as much as ten shillings per lesson to M. Bombe Glace, that being the ‘ nom de guerre’ of the first confectioner there; but you know, dearest, how quick I am at learning, especially anything in the way of cookery. I really must say I do love cooking, so you may fancy that the clever artist. Monsieur le Confiseur, hadnot very many of our demi-souvereign, as he called them, from us; my Mr. B. thought at the time that it was quite ridiculous and extravagant to pay so much for a trifle like that; but let me tell you, dear, he had not then tasted them; but now all the wall and tree- fruits from our garden, if I were to follow entirely his taste, would be con- verted into compote, he being so remarkably fond of it. Compote. Procure a very clean tin stewpan or a small sugar-pan, like M Bombe Glace used; it is also from him that I bought mine, which I showed you when you were here; it being more preferable for boiling sugar, why I cannot tell, never having asked the reason, being so anxious to know other things which