405 CLOUTED CREAM. broken into the cheese vat or mote until it is about one inch above the brim, a cheese cloth or strainer having previously been put at the bottom of the vat, and large enough to allow for part of it to be turned over the top when the vat is filled; when thus filled it is taken to the press, and left for two hours with a clean cloth under it; it is then turned over on the cloth, and pressed again; and the same process is continued three or four hours out of the twenty-four. It is then removed and placed on the shelf, and turned regularly every day for the first two months; after that, occasionally. I intend to try my hand at it shortly, and see what I can make of it. I find that the butter which is made here and potted for winter use, is not intended to be sold as salt, but as fresh, and the dairy-maid has just told mo how it is done. For every quart of new milk from the cow, she takes one pound of potted butter, which has been treated thus the day previous : into two quarts of cold water two tablespoonfuls of vinegar are mixed, and the potted butter well broken and kneaded in it, and then taken out, and served the same in fresh water, in which it is left until the next morning, and then mixed with the milk, put into the chum and churned again, and then treated in the usual way as butter; by this plan there is a large quantity of sweet milk always in the farm, as it is exceedingly good when strained. The following is the way they make the clouted cream 958. CLOUTED CREAM.—Strain the milk as soon as it comes iiom the cow into wide pans, holding about six quarts each, so as to be about three inches deep, and let it remain for twenty-four hours; then gently place the pan upon a hot plate or slow charcoal fire, which must heat it very gently, for if it boils it is spoilt; as soon as the cream forms a rinc in the middle, remove a little with the finger, and if there are a few bubbles rise m the place where you do so, it is done, which will be in half to three quarters of an hour; remove it from the fire, and let it remain twenty-four hours; then skim it, and throw a little sugar on the top. There is also a large quantity of milk which undergoes a particular process, which I shall hereafter describe, and is then sent to London, to Mr. Fadeuilhe where it is made into a solid substance, so that it is preserved for ships’ use! I have tried some of it, and very excellent it is. LETTER XXII. Bifrons Villa, July 22, 1849. Mr dear Er.oisn, You will perceive by this that I am at home again nccto^lrn v “ COnSTT6 °f Mr’ R beinS ^ligcd to leave town unex- P y on business. 0 these men! what important busy beings they are;