246 ENTREES. LETTER No. XV. Dear IIortense, Tours of last night was received at our supper-table, which was surrounded by a few of our best friends, and I need not tell you the merriment it created respecting your fantastic ideas of this age of wonders. A very sedate old gentleman, who happened to have met you at Mr. H. s party about a week or two ago, and wished to be very courteous to you, (perhaps you did not notice his compliments,) not only would he not give a smile toour hearty laugh, but actually swore that such comical nonsense was very dangerous to expose before the public, and especially if we intended to give publicity to it with the receipts, the last of which he very much approved of. But respecting your fun on the review of our century,—“A woman,” said he, “ ought never to interfere with politics 1” “Politics!'’ we all exclaimed, “ where do you see anything political in it ?” “ In almost every word,” replied he. “ But in what part ?” said we ; “ explain yourself?” Unfortunately our hero stuttered very much. “Now, it-it-it is not one of- of ot you here, perhaps, who-who-who a-a-a-ve been in ann-y pu-pu-public office like me in ma-ma-my youth. I was cla-clacla-derk of the second cla-cla-clerk of the first cla-cla-cla-clerk of the private secretary’s cla-cla- cla-clerk of the Home of-of-oi ” Here, dear, we all burst out laughing, which made the old gentleman so mad, that he rushed from the room into the passage, to the street-door, and out of the house, without his hat, Welsh wig, great coat, and umbrella, while the servant had a regular race to get hold of him. She at last found him talking to himself under one of our willow-trees in the garden, coming back for his tackle with his two hands over his red wig, and his thick head underneath it. Being a wet night, after inquiring of the servant what he had said to her—“Ma-ma-ma-rie,” said he, “you are a ve-ve-ve-very good girl indeed, very good girl, and I-I-I-I am ve-ve-ve-very sorry I have no money with me to gi-gi-gi-gi-give you something for your trouble, especially as you will ne-ne-ne-never see me here again—no, ne-ne- never.” “Never mind, sir, about the money,” said she to him,” I am no more disappointed than usual. Good night, sir.” “Mary, you are a ve-ve-very sau-saucy huzzy, a ve-very saucy huzzy,” was his answer. He then gradually disappeared in the fog. In a few seconds after, she heard some one sneezing most fearfully in the direction he was gone, which she believed to be our stuttering friend. So you see, dear, there is quite an event on a mutton chop. But let me tell you that, though your receipt came Tather late, we still had some for supper, and very good they were; every one was delighted with them; in fact, we eat hardly anything else, being so comically introduced to us. I had them brought up at three different times, broiling hot from the gridiron. I made twelve chops out of a middle sized saddle of mutton, weighing about seven pounds:—is that right ? and I have about three pounds of chump remaining, which, of course, I intend