227 entrees. fore serving is an improvement. If any remains, warm in curry sauce. 417.* TRIPE, LYONS FASHION.—When there is any remaining from a previous day, dry it on a clean cloth, cut them into pieces an inch square, put into an omelette or saute pan one or two ounces of butter, according to the quantity, slice thin a large onion, which fry in the pan, then add the tripe, saute them for five minutes, season with salt, pepper, and a spoonful of vinegar; serve very hot. 418. OX TAILS A LA JARDINIERE.—Cut and cook two ox tails as directed for soup, but just before they are done skim well, and take out the pieces of tails, which put upon a dtsh, then in another stewpan put two ounces of butter, to w lcb, when melted, add three ounces of flour, stirring it over the fire until forming a brownish roux (thickening), then mix by degrees two quarts of the stock the tails were boiled in, and boil altogether ten minutes, then put in the tails, with one carrot and two turnips (cut into small dice, or any other shape, with a vegetable cutter), and about thirty button onions; let the whole simmer very gently upon the corner of the fire, keeping it well skimmed, until the vegetables are tender, and the sauce suffi- ciently thick to adhere to the back of the spoon, dress the meat upon a dish, reduce the sauce, which pour over and serve. 419. OX TAILS All GRATIN.-Cook two ox tails as and'salt nhavhen ' ’ uPon a chth> season with pepper and salt, have a couple of eggs well beaten upon a plate, into diiil h0fd brS? P16Cl S1Dgl7’ aftervvards throwing them into a ltttlfwRb o kCTmb% t0 C0Ver evei7 Part’ th™ beat them them^mon , ’ and and bread-crumb them, broil them upon a gridiron or place them in a very hot oven until of or agra’v'; “ WWl ““ “V W. 420. OX TAILS, SAUCE PIQUANTF + •, as before, and when done dress them upon your dish pyramid^ cal y then make about a pint of sharp sauce No 140 h t STS.** tb* vineg,And H°’„S Z'" 0k; fas0" ratl,er hiSM7. odd three or (bur eherk ns chopped very fine, pour the sauce over, and serve S Q 2