303 SECOND COUE.SE. in a pie, (proceeding as directed for fowls,) by managing tbe size of the pie, and seasoning in proportion. Pigeon pie can also be made in the same way, but then the meat with which the interior of the birds are filled must be cut much smaller, and requires less time in cooking. 655. SIMPLE METHOD OF MAKING PIES.—Make two pounds of floor into a paste, as No. 652, and also two pounds of forcemeat; mould three quarters of the paste into a ball, which, with a rolling-pin, roll to about half an inch in thickness and of an oval shape ; lay half the forcemeat in the centre, which spread over to within two inches of the rim, having prepared and sauteed^some veal and ham as. directed for the veal and ham pie. No. 652, lay them alternately upon the forcemeat, with which again cover the meat, laying a pat of butter and a bay-leaf upon the top ; roll out the remainder of the paste of an oval shape, but much thinner than the other, damp the paste around Avith a little water, and lay the sheet of paste over, pressing' it down with the finger and thumb, then wet the top, and brin° up the paste at the sides, which will stick to it, thus forming a fong square pie ; with the trimmings of the paste form a few leaves? with which decorate it according to fancy, egg the whole well over, make a hole in the top, and bake two hours in a moderate oven; when done, pour in the gravy, as for pies made in moulds, and put by to serve cold. A square piece of puff paste laid upon the top, and ornamented previous to baking, is also a great im- provement. Some gravy, as above, may of course be introduced. You will perceive, my dear Eloise, from this one receipt, that any kinds of ponltiy, game, or meat pies, might be made in the same manner. To carve they shoidd be cut across in thin slices through paste and ah. Y hen we are alone I frequently make a very small one for luncheon flittl T f f i P°Und °f SaUSage meat> with which 1 mix an egg and * if* «?“»**■ fryi”g lhe veal “d le*“ b“»»»•“»- “Go- S it t„ '.rzr; fri ttree *»« z, * sufficient to bake it; at times I make it with a pigeon, partridge or two lenYho? ’ ’ and fmmmnded with forcemeat; they are veiy excel- 606. TUREEN OF GAME.—I bought the other dav a common earthen tureen, for which I gave ninepence Imade stXpreCISely the s.ame as for Pie?. boned a grouse and iin i 3S ^°r a P ieasant pie> an(i seasoning the same • I then bned the tureen with the forcemeat, laid in°the S, which^