BREAKFASTS. 19 I should recommend those who are fond of black puddings to partake of no other beverage than tea or coffee, as cocoa or chocolate would be a clog to the stomach. In France they partake of white wine for breakfast, which accounts for the great consumption of black pudding. Now really this is a very favourite dish with epicures, but I never recommend it to a delicate stomach. COFFEE. COFFEE, which has now come so generally into use, originally came from Arabia, where it has been known from time immemorial, but was brought in^ use in England in the year 1653. As it is not generally known how it was introduced, I will give you the account of it from ‘ 'Houghton’s Collection, ” 1698. “It appears that a Mr. Daniel Edwards, an English merchant of Smyrna, brought with him to this country a Greek of the name of Pasqua, in 1652, who made his coffee; this Mr. Edwards married one Alderman Hodges’ daughter, who lived in Walbrook, and set up Pasqua for a coffee- man in a shed in the churchyard in St. Michael, Cornhill, which is now a scrivener’s brave-house, when, having great custom, the ale-sellers petitioned the Lord Mayor against him, as being no freeman. This made Alderman Hodges join his coachman, Bowman, who was free, as Pasqua’s partner; but Pasqua, for some misdemeanor, was forced to run the country, and Bowman, by his trade and a contribution of 1000 sixpences, turned the shed to a house. Bowman’s apprentices were, first, John Painter, then Humphrey, from whose wife I had this account.” Having examined the renter churchwarden’s book of St. Michael, Cornhill, I find that the house or shed Bowman built is now part of the Jamaica Coffee House ; it was rebuilt by Bowman, after the fire in 1667. It is a very remarkable fact that but few persons in England know how to make good coffee, although so well supplied with the first quality of that delicious berry; but, by way of contrast, I must say that the middle classes of France are quite as ignorant of the method of making tea. I remember, upon one occasion, whilst staying at Havre with Mr. B.. where we were upon a visit at the house of one of his agents, who invited a few of his friends t0 meet ™ at a tea-party d VAnglaise, as they used to call it. About an hour previous to tea, and previous to the arrival of the guests I was walking upon the lawn before the house, when my attention was a traded by a cloud of steam issuing from the kitchen-window, smelling most powerfully of tea; my curiosity led me to the kitchen, where I found c 2