482 soyer’s charitable cookery. called forth public charities—streams of gold poured forth to arrest, if possible, this dreadful calamity—public prayers were addressed to the Omnipotent—your good Queen, at the head of her parliament, recommended new laws for the relief of her people—they were unanimously granted, but still thousands of your fellow creatures in Ireland are numbered among the dead for want of food. To hear of this through the public press makes a feeling heart bleed ; but what is it when compared to those who are actually starving ? it is too dreadful to think of, and no language, however impressive, can describe those deso- late and harrowing scenes of misery and death. Your sovereign, her wise councillors, and the majority of your repi-esentatives, joined you in that popular cause, and you have been triumphant. The spirit of commerce, so well understood in your favoured country, set all its sinews at work, and brought forth from all parts of the world, every available sort of provision to supply your wants ; to a certain extent your wishes have been accom- plished ; but permit me to ask you, “What are the efforts, even of a civilized nation, against the will of the Almighty ?” With me you will justly answer, “Useless.” That some wise purpose is intended cannot be denied, which I shall endeavour to prove in the sequel. Turning my mind to this public calamity, a thought struck me, that all the evil could not be laid entirely on the failure of potatoes, and if so, that other produce of the land and waters, coupled with foreign provisions, if economically employed, could arrest the further progress of scarcity; but to effect such desirable and public object, with every chance of success, I claim your assistance, and beg to ask you, whether it would not be advisable “ to use and not abuse nature’s productions?” I do not mean to tax you with waste and extravagance, but merely to impress upon your minds that the country produces plenty of vegetable and animal substances, and the waters washing your magnificent shores teem with life, which the all-wise Providence has given as food to man, and that they only require to be properly employed to supply the wants of every one with good, nourishing, and palatable food ; and I may venture to affirm, that fifty per cent, could be economized by a new system of preparation. Taking all this into serious consideration, no time is to be lost. Let me therefore entreat you to take care that nothing is wasted in the