132 FISH. 234. SALT FISH.—Choose the fish with a black skin, and be particular in soaking it well; to boil, put it into a fish-kettle, with plenty of cold water, place it over the fire, and the moment it boils remove it to the corner, to simmer until done, which, if a piece weighing about three pounds, would be in about thirty minutes; do not let it boil fast, or the fish will eat hard and thready ; dish it upon a napkin, with plain boiled parsnips and parsley round, and serve egg sauce in a boat. Ling, so called from a corruption of the word long. I have known them to be ten feet; they are rarely met with fresh in London, being generally salted, and that for a foreign market. They are a very strong-flavoured fish; but if cooked properly, and in season, are far from being bad; if in season, their liver should be pale or almost white, when it is full of oil ;* but the moment the liver turns red, and the oil leaves it to go into the cellular membranes, then it becomes out of season and rank in flavour : from the 1st of January to the end of May they may be considered in season. Small ones, from eighteen to twenty-four inches, are good eating all the year ; their freshness is known like the cod, and it may be cooked in every way like it; the small ones may be stewed like eels. Hake.—This rarely comes, fresh or salted, into the London market, as it is considered a coarse fish. It is in season in August, September, and October, and the same character which distinguishes the cod is in this : it cannot be cooked too fresh; it rarely exceeds twenty pounds in weight. Many prefer that it should be salted for twelve hours previous to cooking—I differ; others despise it, and call it a mud-fish ; and, when salted, Poor John. Is not a sole a mud-fish, and what has a finer flavour ? I think the reason it is so much despised is, that it comes in such abundance, that the saying of “ toujours perdrix” may be applied to it. I, however, trust that as our friends in Cornwall and Devon have now learnt to send fish up to town by rail, we may be treated with a few hake. It should be dressed like haddock. * Directions for obtaining this pure and cold-drawn I will give you in a future letter.