403 SANDWICHES. 954. WHITE WINE FILLIP.—Take or.e bottle of sherry or Madeira, or champagne, or any other good white wine, a gill of noyeau or maraschino, the juice of half a lemon, add to it one quart of calf’s foot jelly well sweetened and boiling hot, and serve immediately. 955. SANDWICHES.—In making a large quantity, a stale quartern loaf should be taken and trimmed free from all crust, and cut into slices the eighth of an inch in thickness, slightly buttered, and then thin slices of meat, nicely trimmed, may be laid on and covered with another slice of bread, and then cut into eight parts; should they be cut some time before they are wanted, they ought to be put one over the other, as they thus keep moist,—a little mustard and salt may be added to the meat, if preferred. Some thin slices of gherkin may be added to the meat, and the same plan can be adopted with pickled fish, brawn, or sausages. The following varies the common mode of making sand- wiches ;— 956. CHEESE SANDWICH (quite new).—Take a small quantity of very fresh cream cheese, put it into a basin or a marble mortar,, add some salt, pepper, and a little mustard, beat it well up until it is ot the same consistence as butter; if too hard, add a little of the latter, and use it as butter on the bread, with slices of meat between. 951. SALAD SAEDWICHES.—Cover the bread as before, and have ready some mustard and cress and water-cresses well washed and dried, put into a bowl with mayonnaise sauce, and when ready to serve place it neatly between the bread. LETTER No. XXI. Farm, Essex, July —, 1849. My DEAR Elois&—You are no doubt surp/ised at receiving this from the above address, but you remember when you last called I thought my little Emily was unwell, the next day she seemed worse, I then had Dr _ who ordered her out of town, and a friend of Mr. 14.’s being present recom- mended this place; so Emily and I have now been a week here, and she has already improved by the change of air; it has also done rae good and I am D D 2