SQYER’S SAUCES. [One expressly for the Ladies, and the other for the Gentlemen.'] For the high estimation in which these Sauces are held, the following remarks from the press will show. Price 2s. 6d. per Bottle. Z e°°d thi"ffS f0r Which we havc been indebted to the French fessofsover^ of“ *° be rcck°"ed a new —e from the laboratory of Pro- acknowl^W rL ’ 'S College, commonly called the Reform Club. We beg to s th.e receiPt of a specimen, which arrived a few days since at our office addfcteOto'kickshaw’“ cbaractcristic of ‘be learned Sauce-rer. John Bull is not rfJiTf 1 ,kkh’ but eratitude compels him to notify the pleasure which he de nved from Ins last steak, seasoned as it was with the specimen above referred to John Bull, 29th April, 1848. he great Napoleon of Gastronomy, the man who has, by bringing the lights of emistry to bear on the art of preparing viands for the food of man, raised cookery “ art to the d‘gnl‘y of a science, M. Soyer, has invented a sauce (or rather two sauces), sauce succulente (one pour les Messieurs, and another pour les Dames) in com pans011 with which all other sauces are “ stale, dull, flat, and IprofitabL ^ Theret a warmth and flavour about the sauce succulente of Soyer which gives a zest to appetite used1 wir wMch t0 Ct10P’ ***** C°ld meat’ °r WhateVC1- °ther comestible it "may be used with, which is most piquant and delicious. A very small quantity is sufficient to impart the most delicious flavour. The bottle containing the sauce, tl, is worthy of t \rTmaS R^°St elegant sPecimen of “ art manufacture.” It is quite an ornament tion hv h « Sreat tefot the Reform Club bas added immensely to his reputa- tion by his invention of the sauce succulente. Sun, 2nd May, 1st 8. AR:S-A e'rcat deal ‘bat it is from time to time our lot to notice under this head is merely ornamental—if even that; we are happy in an opportunity of no- ticmg the application of «high art” to a purpose really useful. M. Soyer—clarum et venerahtle nomen—has recently conferred a new obligation on civilized society, by the invention of a sauce for general purposes, so perfect that "it would create a soul under the ribs of death.” It is pujuant without being pungent, and of the highest flavour without conveying any definite taste. And if such be its physical qualities, it soars still higher m its moral tendencies; for though admirably calculated to form domestic dishes, it carefully eschews the promotion of domestic jars; there is one sort appropriated to ladies, and another to gentlemen. After a lifetime devoted to experi mental philosophy, it has been reserved for Alexis Soyer to discover, despite “ wise saws and modern instances,” that the sauce that is good for the goose is not good for the gander. Morning Post, 15th May, 1848. A New Devouring Element.—You all know Soyer the Philanthropist, who pre- tends to be so full of his fellow-creatures? Can you doubt it after the following* Read it, and feel “like goose’s flesh” all over!—“ Soyer’s New Sauce for Ladies and Gentlemen!! I” Was there ever such a cannibal? And this is the man who would wish to redress our society and our dinners ! Why, it is regularly setting man against wife, son against mother-in-law, pauper against beadle, boots against cook ! No lady, no gentleman is safe. The aristocracy is on the verge of the sauce-boat. We denounce Soyer as the greatest traiteur in England, or even Ireland, and the latter is saying, at present, an immense deal. Punch, 25th May, 1848. M. Soyer has invented a new sauce—a day or two ago there was a magnificent article upon it in the Chronicle, written by Mr. Disraeli—a new sauce of such wondrous power, that with it Colonel Sibthorpe has already professed himself ready to swallow the Charter! Punch, 6th May, 184S. M. Soyer is a real benefactor to society, and we therefore, with pleasure, acknow- ledge the merit of his “ most novel and delicious of all modern social inventions,” to quote the language of his advertisements, which have appeared in our paper. Morning Advertiser, 25th April, 184S.