CULINARY CORRESPONDENCE. 63 dish, and set on fire the moment of placing it before the mother, who hurries to serve them, in the hope of putting a stop to the unmusical domestic har- mony of the little ones, who do not fear to bum their mouths as long as they satisfy their appetites. Having now, my dear, given my full and due respect for the comfort of their Sunday’s dinner, I have, in many instances, to com- plain of the way most of the industrious classes dine the remainder of the week. I always used to say, when in business, that he who works well deserves to live well,—I do not mean to say extravagantly, but that devoting one hour a day to their principal meal ought to be classified as a matter of business in regard to economy. We, therefore, must be very positive upon this important question, and make them perceive that dining well once or twice a week is really unworthy of such a civilized and wealthy country as ours, whose provisions cannot be excelled by any other, both in regard to quantity and quality. Yours, &e. Hortense. LETTER No. VII. My dear Mrs. B. Your observation upon the way many people live in this country is no doubt very correct, but do you not think that if you were not quite so abrupt on the subject, we should probably be more likely to suc- ceed in bringing our friends round to your style of management ? of which, for my part, I very much approve. But as it is a matter of importance, I should like you to describe in your next communication what are the prin- cipal and most useful joints in a family, and to discourse on them, in pointing out the good to be achieved, and the evils to be avoided. Ever yours, &c. Eloise. LETTER No. VIII. Many compliments to you, my dear Mrs. L.. At your request I here inclose the list you require, and which will show you how circumscribed the middle classes are in respect to the variation of their meals, in the way of meat and manner of cooking it. I do not dis- approve of your idea in wishing me here to give a series or list of those pro- visions ; but, on the other.hand, I must tell you frankly my opinion, it being a subject which for some years I have made a study, indeed quite a hobby! Ifl am wrong, let any one who knows better correct me ; you will allow I am always open to conviction and improvement, no matter how trifling as it often loads to an important one.