SECOND COURSE. 298 643. BITTERN, THE COMMON, OR BOGBUMPER BI1TERBUM, BUTTERBUMP, MIltEDRUM (le Butor).—Bittern (the little) (le Blongios). Many cooks confound this with the heron, but they are as different as possible, not only in appearance, although of the same species, but in flavour. When fat, about October and November, this bird is exceed- ingiy fine eating ; it should be kept for three or four days, then covered with a slice of bacon, and roasted, and served with a sauce (Nos. 148, 181). 644. STARLINGS, OR STARE (VEtoumeau). — These are obtained, at times, in large quantities, by persons resident in the country. When killed, their heads should be immediately pulled off, and as soon as plucked and trussed, put into a little vinegar and water, which will get rid of their bitter taste : cook like Larks. Cormorants and Herons are unfit to be sent to table; also the Rock Birds, or Penguin species. 645. OX-BIRD, PURRE, OR STINT (VAlouette de Merh It is from this bird that the receipt (No. 531) of sea-pie arose: it being a bird of passage, and often surrounding a vessel at sea in thousands ; when we get them in London, they have generally been shot, which ought not to have been; but taken in nets and kept alive, and fed like quails, or on bread and milk, hemp-seed and boiled wheat, and two days before they are wanted add sugar, which makes them amazingly fat. When young, their legs are, smooth ; the contrary when old. In cooking, proceed as for a lark, draw them or not, as may be preferred. With this bird may be classed the following, and cook in the same way :—Knots, Knute, Knout (le Canut) ; Thrush (Greve) ; Gambet or Gambetta, by some called the Greenshank ; Redshank, Spotted Redshank (Chevalier Rouge) ; Godwits of all colours very much resemble and equal the flavour of a woodcock—the hens are the best ; Dotterels, in spring the most delicious eating; Dotterel-sea or Turnstone, not so fine ; Sandpiper or Sanderling, fine in summer ; Wheatear, White Tail, or Fallow finch, good in August and September. 646. BUSTARD, GREAT OR LITTLE (VOutarde, or la petite Outarde).—This is a bird which is now seldom sent to table, its flavour depends much upon the country where it feeds ; it should be stuffed and cooked like a tui-key. 647. BLACKBIRDS.—They are eatable when young, and are best at the end of the year; they should be cooked like larks. 648. RABBITS.—There are two sorts, the tame and wild ; the wild or gray inhabits the mountainous districts; has the finest flavour, or on those places where it can feed on thyme, geneva, or other aromatic herbs, or on the sea coast, where he gets the lichen or wild moss. It has a much darker colour