136 FISH. being at the present day an article of great consumption on the coast of the Mediterranean, which sea it enters by the Straits in the month of June. It grows to an immense size, sometimes as long as nine feet, and broad in pro- portion. They come off the coast of Cornwall with the first herrings and pilchards in summer, and they follow the sardines into the Mediterranean; they also appear on the west coast of Ireland, but they are rarely caught, as the fishermen are ignorant of the method of doing so ; if followed, it would be a more valuable fishery than the herrings or pilchards. They are exceed- h^gdy good salted, or pickled like salmon, which it resembles in flavour when thus prepared; when raw, its flesh is very red, but turns pale in boiling. The best way to cook it when fresh is to cut it in slices, and proceed as with salmon. Mackerel.—Ttys is generally recognised as the scomber of the Romans, by ■whom it was much esteemed; at the present day it is not held in that high estimation it was some years since: the great supply which is now re- ceived from different parts of the coast at all seasons of the year may have a tendency to cause this. It is a fish which requires to be eaten very fresh, and soon becomes tainted; it is for this reason that it is the only fish-cry allowed by law in the city of London on a Sunday: “Mackerel! fresh mackerel! who’ll buy my fresh mackerel ?” is often heard. The soft roe of this fish is highly esteemed, and I have no doubt but that it was equally so with the Romans, and I believe it was an ingredient of the garum. (See page 163.) When fresh, their skin is of a sea-green colour, and very beautiful; fine bright golden eyes, and gills very red ; they should be plump, but not too large ; they should be cleaned by cutting their gills, so that, when pulled, the interior of the fish will come with them; wipe them well, cut off the fins, and trim the tail. 241. MACKEREL are generally served plain boiled; put them in a kettle containing enough boiling water according to the number, well salted, let simmer nearly half an hour, take them up, drain, and dish them upon a napkin; serve melted butter in a boat, with which you have mixed a tablespoonful of chopped fennel, boiling it a few minutes. 242. MACKEREL A LA MAITRE-D’HOTEL.— Make an incision down the back of a mackerel, close to