NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 468 one single Sunday in London, were to be exhibited in a row, near a railway line, it would take above one hour, by special train, to pass in review those culinary victims : therefore see the importance of the subject if we could only rescue every year to proper standing half a mile of pies and pie-crust, I think we should de- serve a piece oi plate, or, at least, a piece of one of our disciples’ pies. Gaze with admiration and horror on these two family portraits. LETTER XXVIII. j\Ia chere Amie, I received your note of yesterday too late to answer it, but pray do not be alarmed; no insurrection will take place amoug the pic-making people. I Inerely wish that the greater part of those who make them badly should improve; that is the height of my expectations. But to follow my economical study, then, I mean to give you receipts for a scries of pies for all classes of society, I feci in duty bound to begin with the Labourer’s Pies, who generally can afford to dine in his family but once a week, and that on the Sabbath-day. The following will replace the aristocratic joint, give them a welcome valua- tion, and save nearly one half the cost of their previous Sunday dinner. 46. LABOURER’S PIE.—For the following I purchased last market day at 3d. a pound, four pounds of mixed pieces, or odds and ends of meat, with very little bone in it, all very fresh; the large pieces I cut to bring them all about equal in size, then put on a large dish, I cut four pounds of peeled and well-washed potatoes, in rather thick slices, put them over, then peel and slice thinly two large or four middle sized onions, add over all two ounces of salt, half ounce of pepper, mix the whole well together, to take equal share of seasoning; put in a large pie- dish one piece of meat, then slices of potatoes edgeway; continue the same until your pie is full, terminate the top so as to form a dome, rising about two inches in the middle above the rim, put in half pint of cold water, then comes the most important part. 47. When your paste is carefully made, (No. 50 or 53,) which requires no more time than doing badly, and your pies and tarts properly full, this is the last and most important process in pie or tart making:—Everybody (you say, Eloise) knows how to make either. So they pretend.. Well, I assure you, that among the artisans in this neighbourhood, whom I now and then