202 REMOVES. 374. PICKLED PORK, (Belli/ Part.)—Choose a nice streaked piece of about four pounds; it will take about three-quarters of an hour boiling; serve, garnish with greens round it. 375. HAND OF PORK.—Choose one not too salt; boil it for one hour; serve as above. VENISON.—We liaye three sorts in this country. There are, the stag, or red-deer, -which is a native, and of which but few exist in a wild state, except in the woods of Mr. Herbert, M.P. for Kerry, in the vicinity of the lakes of Killamey, where they are most numerous. The second is the fallow deer, which is the common sort, introduced into this country by James the First, and of which we have great numbers in noblemen’s parks; and the third is the roebuck deer, which is found only in the north of Scotland. Of the first, it is rare that any parts of it come to London, nor can I say that it is desirable, the flavour being strong, and having no fat; yet a good steak, broiled over the turf cinders in the Gap of Dunlow, with a good appetite as a sauce, is not bad, as Mr. B. says. But the fallow deer, when fed on good herbage, is the finest meat, the most delicate flavour, and most nourishing that can be put on the table ; a fine haunch of this, well covered with fat, and properly and artistically roasted, ought certainly to be the height of an epicure’s desire. Should you ever have one made a present to you, be careful in following the receipt; but should you be obliged to purchase, go yourself to Groves’s and choose one, or let your husband call at Lever s, in Comhill, or Rich’s, in Ludgate-hill, and you will be able to obtain some of the finest to be had in this country, as they are selected from the best herds. The third, the roebuck, is not often got in London ; it is a fine flavour, tender, but wants fat: when cooked, it should always be covered with mutton fat. Venison is cut up the same as mutton, with the exception of the saddle, which is seldom or never cut; the flesh should be dark, fine-grained and firm, and a good coating of fat on the back. It should be well hung and kept in a dry, cold place. By running a skewer in along the bone, you will know when it is fit for eating; examine, it carefully eveiy morning to cut out any fly-blows. 376. HAUNCH OF VENISON.—A good haunch of venison, weighing from about twenty to twenty-five pounds, will take from three to four hours’ roasting, before a good solid fire. Trim the haunch, by cutting off part ol the knuckle, and sawing off the chine-bone; fold the flap over, then envelope it in a flour-and-water paste rather stiff, and an inch thick; tie it up in strong paper, four sheets m