ENTREES. 274 The bag of spice must be preserved, as it will answer the same purpose half a dozen times. Fowl pillaus are frequently served with two ounces of Ma- laga raisins, which are added at the same time and stewed with the rice. 546. MUTTON PILLAU.—Trim a neck of mutton, by sawing off the tips of the ribs and taking away the chine bone; then lay it in a stewpan, with a bag of spice, as in the last, and cover with three quarts of stock, let it simmer very gently two hours; then take out the mutton, which keep hot upon a dish, skim off all the fat from the stock it was boiled in, to which add a pound of Patna rice, which stew until tender and very dry; then lay it over the mutton, garnish with fried onions and hard- boiled eggs, as in the last, and serve very hot. 547. CHICKEN CURRY.—Cut up a chicken into ten pieces, that is, two -wings, two pieces of the breast, two of the back, and each leg divided into two pieces at the joints; then cut up a middling-sized onion into very small dice, which put into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter and a very small piece of garlic, stir them over the fire until sauteed well; then add two tea- spoonfuls of curry powder and one of curry paste, which well mix in; then add half a pint of good broth, let it boil up; then lay in the pieces of chicken, cover it over, and put to stew very gently for half an hour, stirring it round occasionally; if getting too dry add a little more broth (or water); when done, the flesh should part easily from the bones, and the sauce should adhere rather thickly; season with the juice of half a lemon and a pinch of salt, and serve, with plain boiled rice upon a separate dish. Ducklings can be cooked in the same way. 548. CHICKEN CURRY" WITH PASTE.—Cut a chicken up as described in the last, which put into a stewpan, with two ounces of clarified butter, put it over the fire, stirring occasionally until the pieces of the chicken are lightly browned, then pour off the butter and fat from the chicken, add three teaspoonfuls of curry paste and a pint of good broth, mix all well togethei, place the stewpan again upon the fire, stewing its contents slowly for about twenty minutes, when serve, as directed in the last. 549. R ABBIT CURRYr.—Cut up a rabbit into smallish pieces, splitting the head in halves, cut up two large onions and