212 rOULTRY. glaze, dish up the turkey and serve with the sauce over it; small new potatoes, about twenty, when in season, may be added to the sauce, or roasted chesnuts. The remains are excellent when cold, or will warm again with the addi- tion of a little broth or water. The series of Entrees will contain the dishes made from the remnants of the fore- going receipts. FOWLS, in a general sense, mean all kinds of poultry, but, in a limited view, one species of bird, which is exceedingly common in all parts of Europe; there is an amazing number of kinds of this species produced by crossing the breed ; so great attention having been bestowed upon this subject of late years, it is quite impossible to say which is the best. They are not originally natives of this island, but were found here by the Romans, having probably been introduced by the Phoenicians. We distinguish this kind in cookery, as the chicken, capon, pullet, cock, and hen. Chickens from their age cannot be otherwise than tender ; capons should have a fat vein under the wing, thick belly and rump, comb short and pale, spurs short and blunt, and legs smooth. Pullets are best in the spring, just before they begin to lay. Cocks shotdd have their spurs short, legs smooth, and comb short, smooth, and a bright colour.* Hens, legs and comb smooth, and full breast. Black legs are best for roasting and entrees, and white for boiling. For preparing them for table, M. Soyer has invented a plan :—by cutting the sinews of the bird, it not only appears fuller and plumper when cooked, as the heat is liable to contract the sinews, but it also affords facility for carving when the sinews are divided; they are trussed in the usual way, only using string instead of skewers. The following is the ordinary plan of trussing— For Roasting.—Having emptied the fowl and cleaned the gizzard, cut the skin of the wings, and put the gizzard and liver through it, and turn the pinion under; put a skewer through the first joint of the pinion and the body, coming out at the opposite side, and bring the middle of the leg close up to it; run a skewer through the middle of both legs and body, and another through the drumstick and side-bone, and one through the skins of the feet, the nails of which must be cut off. In London, these are removed try the poulterer before being sold.