22 BREAKFASTS. 42. COFFEE, FRENCH FASHION.—To a pint of coffee, made as before directed, add a pint of boiling milk; warm both together until nearly boiling, and serve. The French never use it any other way for breakfast. 43. WHITE COFFEE (a new style.')—Put two ounces of unground coffee, slightly roasted, into a clean stewpan, which set upon a moderate fire, slowly warming the coffee through, shaking the stewpan round every half minute; when very hot, which you will perceive by the smoke arising from it, pour over half a pint of boiling water; cover the stewpan well, and let it infuse by the side of the fire for fifteeu minutes; then add half a pint of boiling hot milk, pass the coffee through a small fine sieve into the coffee-pot or jug, and serve with white sugar-candy or crystallized sugar. It is, as you will perceive, a great novelty, and an agreeable change. But if, by neglect, you ing-hot refreshment as myself who had patronised the steaming Mocha. I was at last much pleased to find a wise man among my new travelling friends, who said, “ I never travel at night without being provided with a spirited companion and pulling out of his carpet-bag a small bottle and gutta-percha goblet of new invention, we partook of a drop of the best com de vie I had ever tasted, which produced on me the pleasant sensation of being relieved of a very annoying pain. Grateful for his kindness, and always desirous to improve the domestic comfort, I told him, in making myself known, that, as soon as I arrived at the Reform Club, I would try several experiments to simplify the present method of making coffee ; and should I be successful in my researches, I would forward him the receipt. On my arrival in London, I found my first travelling friends, who, more unfortunate than myself, got in their proper place, and, consequently, did not meet with the “ spirited” friend I did, vowing they would never take any more coffee at night, espe- cially in a railway train. Having forwarded the receipt to my fellow- traveller, he, after having tried it, wrote me the following note : “ My dear Sir,—I have made an experiment of your new receipt for coffee, which you have kindly forwarded to me, and beg to acquaint you that I never recollect having tasted better.—Yours, &c. “ W. C.” I do strongly advise my readers to give it a trial, and recommend all pro- viders of refreshment at railway stations not to make the coffee boiling hot, but to keep the cafetibre in a bain-marie, which would pi event all the above inconvenience, both as regards quality and heat.