SECOND COURSE. 293 ing, which cook quick before a sharp fire, serve with toasted bread under. 618. WHITE GROUSE or PTARMIGAN (le Lagopede). —The birds are perfectly white ; they now arrive in the London market from February to May; from Sweden and Norway, packed in ice : they have rather a strong flavour of the pine ; but when young and tender, are good eating. They are to be trussed like the above, and plain roasted, and served with toast under and fried bread-crumbs, separate, or dressed as follows :—Put two spoonfuls of currant jelly in a stewpan, with the juice of a lemon and a little salt dissolved in it; when melted, pour over and serve. There is another sort of grouse, known as the Wood Grouse or Capercailzie; these are rare in this country; I have occasionally received a few from Scot- land. These are to be plain roasted, and served as the above. 619. WILD DUCKS (Canard Sauvage).—The male is called the Mallard, and the young one Flapper. Under the above title a great many birds are sold. They should all be cooked alikeK they must be kept two or three days before they are dressed; they are trussed by twisting each leg at the knuckle, and resting the claws on each side of the breast, fixing them with a skewer run through the thighs and pinions of the wings; rub the liver over the breast, roast them before a quick fire from fifteen to twenty minutes, baste with butter, not basting them when first put down will keep the gravy in; one should be better done than the other, in order to suit the taste of those at table; serve with made gravy under, and a lemon separate. 620. CANVASS BACK DUCK.—A friend of mine gave me some of these delicate birds from America, but which were already cooked and preserved in tins. I could not speak very highly of them, being to my fancy too much done ; but I believe they now arrive in England packed in ice. They have a gray plumage. They should be cooked like wild duck, but nearer the fire, the fat being so delicate that it requires to be cooked quickly; good plain gravy is all that is required to make them perfect. The following is a list of those ducks fit to be eaten Golden Eye Duck (le Garrot, or Piedcurre); Gray Duck (le Chipeau); Morillon, or Gurgling Curries; in Scotland, Douckers (le Morillon); Pintailed Duck or Winter Duck, Sea Pheasant or Cracker (le Canard a longue queue); Scaup Duck Gray-back Curre and Teal Drake (le Vignons); Shoveller, or Ivertlutock, or Broadbilled Duck on the east coast, Becks and Scopper-bills (le Soucliet). There is also a variety called the Red-breasted Shoveller, which we receive iii