391 DESSERT. flour, have ready buttered and dusted with sugar, about a dozen small sponge-cake tins, put a tablespoonful of the mixture into each, shake sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. 933. POUND CAKES.—Put one pound of butter into an earthen pan with a pound of powdered sugar, and a little grated nutmeg, beat them well together with the hand until forming a smooth lightish cream, when add by degrees eight eggs, beating it for ten minutes after, then add a pound and a quarter of sifted flour, stir it in lightly, and put the mixture into hoops to bake. 934. QUEEN’S CAKES.—Weigh of butter the weight of six eggs, and nine of powdered sugar, which put together in an earthen pan, beat well with the hand until forming a smooth cream, when add by degrees nine eggs, and when well beat, stir in the weight of nine eggs of flour and half a pound of currants; have ready buttered about a dozen little round cake pans, fill each one rather better than three parts full with the mixture, shake sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. If no cake pans, drop the mixture upon paper in pieces half the size of a walnut, and an inch and a half apart, shake sugar over, bake in a warm oven, and, when done, remove them from the papers. 935. ALMOND CAKES.—Procure one pound of ground almonds, to which add two pounds of powdered sugar, mixin°" the whole with the whites of nine eggs, beating the mixture well with a wooden spoon tor about ten minutes, lay them out upon wafer paper of an oval shape with a tablespoon, put three or four strips of almonds upon the top of each, and bake them in a slow oven; when done, break away all the wafer paper but that which adheres to the bottom of the cake, and, when cold, they are ready for use. J 936. COCOA-NUT BISCUITS.—Scrape four cocoa-nuts, to which add the same weight of powdered sugar, mix with whites of eggs, beating with a wooden spoon until formin" a so tish but thick paste; lay the mixture out upon wafer-paper in small drops, baking them as directed in the last. 937. MOSS BISCUITS.—Weigh half a pound of flour, to which add an ounce and a half of butter and five ounces of su^ar rub them well together, and mix with one whole and one white of egg and a teaspoonful of milk; then add two ounces of ground almonds, which rub well into the paste; afterwards rub thewhole