ENTREES. 234 437. REMAINS OF OX-TONGUE.—The remains of a tongue from a previous dinner may be again served thus:—Cut it into thin slices, put a small piece of butter into a frying-pan, lay the pieces of tongue over, which warm a few minutes in a saute-pan, and serve with veal or fowl if any; when at home alone, I frequently have it with mashed potatoes under; it makes a very good dish for luncheon. The pieces of tongue might also he egged and bread-crumbed previous to cooking as above, and served with a plain gravy, or any sharp sauce. (See Sauces.) Or should you have any tongue, and veal and beef remaining, sprinkle a little chopped eschalots at the bottom of a pie-dish, lay a layer of meat over, season with a little salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, then a layer of the tongue; have some yel- lowish crusts of bread grated, a teaspoonful of which sprinkle over the tongue, then again a layer of the meat, proceeding thus until the dish is nearly full, when sprinkle more of the brown bread-crumbs over the top, placing a small piece of butter here and there; pour in two wineglassfuls of water, set it in a warm oven half an hour, and serve very hot. Or instead of bread- crumbs, make a little good mashed potatoes, which spread over it smoothly with a spoon or knife, bake half an hour in a warm oven, and serve. Should the remains of a tongue be but small, and if well pickled and boiled, the root and all would be excellent in any kind of beef, lamb, mutton, veal, or pork, hashed, or in pie3 or puddings made from these meats. 438. REMAINS OF SALT BEEF.—The remains of salt beef are very excellent served in the few following ways, no matter from what joint, or from what part of the joint: Cut as large and thin slices as possible, dip each slice into some vinegar from mixed pickles, previously poured upon a plate in small quantities; lay about a pound of the meat thus prepared upon a flat dish, pour a wineglassful of water over, warm it through in the oven, or before a slow fire, and serve. Another way is, after having dipped the beef in the vinegar, roll them in flour, and proceed as above, adding double the quantity ot water. Another way is to saute the slices with a little butter in a frying-pan, have ready some nice mashed potatoes very hot, lay the beef over, and serve. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL.—-This is a very favourite dish of mine. It is generally considered an expensive one, but the way hi which I