407 CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AEFAIRS. you what was our breakfast some years since when in business now we have placed on the table some brown bread, rolls, and dry toast; the butter is m a -lass butter-dish, and the eggs are brought up when we have sat dow to table. The urn is placed on the table, as I make my own tea and coflee, the cocoa is made down stairs. „ r You will perhaps be surprised when I say that I make the coffee for breakfast myself, but I have done so for some little time past, having found that when made in the kitchen it never came up twice alike, but now we always have it delicious. . _ I lately purchased a coffee-pot which enables me to do it in the veiy best manner, with no more trouble than I have in making the tea. It is called Cary’s Hecla. Its great excellence is that it is so very easy to use. It makes the very best coffee at one short operation, and is so contrived as to produce it almost boiling hot, without ever permitting the great mistake of boiling the coffee at all. In addition to the eggs we often have cold meat, and sometimes Mr. B. has a cutlet or any other nick-nack, which I always cook myself on the breakfast table with my newly-invented Magic lamp-stove.* With this I cook all light things, such as cutlets, poached eggs, ham, bacon, &e., and in many respects it is very convenient. yir. generally leaves home in the brougham, which is returned in time for me, in case I should be going out; and he returns in a cab or omnibus. Whilst we are at breakfast, I generally consult Mr. B. what he would like for dinner, and if he is likely to invite any friend to dine with him. The fishmonger has previously sent his list and prices of the day. I then write with a pencil on a slip of paper the bill of fare for the nursery dinner, luncheon, should any be required, and our dinner, which I send to the cook. At ten o’clock I go down stairs into the kitchen and larder, when the cook gives me her report, that is, everything that is required for the next twenty-four hours’ consumption, including the servants’ dinner, which report is filed in the larder and made to tally with the week’s list, for I must tell you that the weeks’ consumption of all things that will not spoil is had in on the Saturday, on which day the larder is properly scoured out, and everything put agam into its proper place, there being bins for all kinds of vegetables, &e. The larder is generally kept locked, the cook and I only having keys, because it is in fact a larder, and not, as in many houses, full of emptiness; this occupies * This is, as you see by the engraving, a very neat and portable cooking apparatus; the heat is given by the vapour of spirits of wine passing through a flame: it will cook cutlets or boil water in as short a time as the best of charcoal, and to the sportsman on the moors must be of great utility; with the sautepan everything can be cooked as on a charcoal fire, and with a small saucepan anything that may be required in the room of the invalid, where the heat of a fire would not be allowed. For further particulars see advertisement.