SECOND COURSE. 811 you to devote to it your personal attention; and being rather difficult to execute, be present when your cook makes it, that she may follow strictly the receipt, which I flatter myself is rather original. Take a pound and a half of lean veal from the fillet, and cut it in long thin slices, scrape with a knife tili nothing but the fibre remains; put it in a mortar, pound it ten minutes, or until in a puree, pass it through a wire sieve (use the remainder in stock), then take one pound of good fresh beef suet, which skin, shred, and chop very fine, put it in your mortar and pound it, then add six ounces of panada (made as under) with the suet, pound them well together, and add the veal, season with a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter one of peper, half that of nutmeg, work all well together, then add four eggs by degrees, continually pounding the contents of the mortar; when well mixed take a small piece in a spoon, and poach it in some boiling water, and if it is delicate, firm, and a good flavour, it is ready for use; if you require some very deli- cate, add two tablespoonfuls of white sauce, or even thick melted butter; you can vary the flavour by the addition of a spoonful of chopped parsley, eschalot, mushroom, &c.; the flesh of rabbit, 01 fowl, or hare, pheasant, grouse, &c., if plentiful, may be added, using the ingredients in proportion. One quarter of this quantity may be made if required. 672. HOW TO MAKE QUENELLES OF FORCE- MEAT. Have two tablespoons, (dessert or teaspoons according to the size you intend making quenelles), fill one of them with the forcemeat, dip the other spoon into boiling water, and with it remove the forcemeat from the first spoon and slip it from that into a buttered saute-pan, proceeding thus until you have as many as you require; then cover them with some second stock and boil them about ten minutes, or until firm, and they are ready for use. J . f.73- PANADA FOR FORCEMEATS.—Put two-thirds of haft a pint of water into a stewpan holding a quart, with nearly an ounce of butter; when boiling, stir in a quarter of a pound of flour; keep it moving over the fire until it forms a smooth and toughish paste; take it out of the stewpan, and when cold use it where directed. 674. STUFFING FOR VEAL.-Chop up half a pound of beef suet very fine, put it in a basin, with eight ounces of bread-crumbs, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a little pow- dered thyme and marjoram, half the rind of a lemon grated and