FISH. 147 they frequent for the purpose of laying their eggs : they are not so large as those found on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico, though considered much more delicate. They derive their name from the tinge of green which the flesh possesses, caused by its feeding upon submarine plants. Although having extremely powerful jaws, it is a very harmless fish, and differs from others of its species, which feed upon smaller kinds. The trunk turtle, the logger- head, and the hawk’s bill are unfit for food. Tire turtle of the Ascension Island differs in some measure from either of them, being between the green turtle and the trunk turtle ; its flesh, when old and large, is very rank, A turtle of about 80 pounds weight is the best eating. There was a species of turtle known to the Romans, but which was cohsidered poisonous, and is, I suppose, that which is now found in the Mediterranean, and sometimes on our coast; but as you are likely only to receive the fine green turtle as a present or purchase, I would advise you to send and have it cooked at a house where they are accustomed to do it. I will, therefore, give you no receipts for cooking it; but should you be curious to know how it is done, you must look in “ Soyer’s Regenerator.” Turbct we consider the finest of flat-fish; and so it was, no doubt, con- sidered by the Romans : hence the proverb, " Nihil ad rhombum,” although Linnaeus, from his classification, would make us believe it was the brill or brett, but I do not think so meanly of the epicures of those days as to imagine it. Its flavour depends greatly upon the place where taken, resulting from its food, which is principally young crabs and lobsters ; therefore it is not surprising that lobster sauce accompanies it when cooked. I prefer them of a middling size, not too large, but thick, and if bled when caught, so much the better. Should you be at the sea-side, and buy one rather cheap because it has red spots on the belly, remove them by rubbing salt and lemon on the spot. In my opinion they are better and more digestible, and of finer flavour, forty-eight hours after being killed, than when fresh. -57. 1URBOT. To cook it, cut an incision in the back, rub it well with a good handful of salt, and then with the juice of a lemon; set it in a turbot kettle, well covered with cold water, in which you have put a good handful of salt; place it over the fire, and as soon as oiling, put it at the side (where it must not be allowed to more than simmer very slowly, or the fish would have L 2