406 CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. but we will not talk of them now, our present business being of too great moment to allow of trifling away our time on such uncertain subjects.— Emilv is still in the country and daily improving. Thanks to your indefatigable perseverance, our culinary correspondence is drawing to a close; but I intend, when I return again to the farm, to write you a few letters of what a country housewife is or ought to be, as I under- stand Mr. I), is half inclined to purchase the small farm belonging to our old friend Mr. H. They may prove useful, particularly if in a small form, so that you may have them printed and circulated among the labouring popula- tion for a mere trifle. I anticipate the pleasure of seeing you as soon after the receipt of this a3 possible. Best regards to Mr. L. Yours in haste, Hortense. CONVERSATION ON HOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. Mrs. L. After all the receipts and information which you have given me, there is one which you have not touched upon yet, which, perhaps, is of more importance than all the rest, it is the management of servants. Mrs. B. You are right, my dear, it is of great importance, and more so than many of us imagine; as for myself I do not consider that I am a good manager, being perhaps of too forgiving a disposition; but there is one good quality which I possess which makes up for the want of others, that is exacti- tude ; by enforcing this it causes all to know their place, and perform their work. Mrs. L. But what surprises me is to see everything so well done and clean with so few servants; you seem to have but two maid servants, a cook, a housemaid, and a coachman. Mrs. B. Yes, that is all, and I generally find that they are enough for the work, unless I have a dinner party, and then of course, as you know, I have extra men; but I will tell you how I pass the day, and then you will be able to judge. We are what are called early risers, that is, Mr. B. is obliged to leave home every work day at twenty minutes past nine; our breakfast is on the able at half-past eight; the breakfast parlour having previously been got ready, as the servants rise at seven. When we have no visitors, our two selves, the three children, and the governess, form the breakfast circle. The children, in summer time, have a walk before breakfast, but before leaving their room they uncover their beds, and if fine, open the windows, if a wet morning about two inches of the top sash is pulled down. Ihe servants get their breakfast at the same time as we do, as we require hardly any or no waiting upon, everything being ready on the table. In a former letter I told