154 FISH. stewpan, place it upon the fire, and when quite hot add a wine-glassful of capers, sauce over, and serve. 268. SKATE AU BEURRE NOIR.—Boil a piece of skate as directed in the last; when done, drain it well, put it upon a dish without a napkin, and proceed exactly as directed for mackerel au beurre noir. Skate may also be served upon a napkin, with a boat of well-seasoned melted butter, to which you have added a spoonful of Harvey sauce and one of anchovy. Dais and Smear Dais are good from February to June. They should be cooked like Plaice. Pike.—This fish spawns in March and April, according to the season. When in perfection, their colours are very bright, being green, spotted with bright yellow, and the gills are a bright red ; when out of season, the green changes to grey, and the yellow spots assume a pale hue. It may be called the shark of fresh water. Those caught in a river or running stream are far superior to those caught in ponds, which often get too fat, and have a muddy taste. A middling-sized one, weighing about five pounds, would be best; when fresh, the eyes must be very transparent, the scales bluish, and not dry upon the back, or it would not clean well. The dressing is generally the making of the fish, as regards the approbation bestowed upon it. To clean them, have a sharp-pointed knife, put the point carefully under the scales (without piercing the skin) at the tail of the fish, pass the knife gently up the back to the head, dividing the scales from the skin carefully; you may then take off the whole of the scales in one piece (should this process appear too difficult, they may be scraped off in the ordinary way; it will not look so white, but would eat equally as good); then make two incisions in the belly, a small one close to the bladder, and a larger one above ; pull out the gills one at a time with a strong cloth, and if the interior does not come with them, take it out from the incisions, and wash the fish well; the cutting off the fins is quite a matter of taste : it is usually done. 269. PIKE.—Clean as directed above, stuff the interioi as directed for haddocks, only adding some fillets of an- chovies, if handy, and chopped lemon-peel with it; curl