ENTREES. 232 dish, and serve with sippets of toasted bread round, or poached eggs on it. 432. CROQUETTES OF BEEF.—Proceed precisely as in the last, but omitting the vinegar; when done, stir in two yolks of eggs quickly, stir another minute over the fire, then pour it upon a dish until cold; have a couple of eggs well beaten upon a plate, also some bread-crumbs in a separate dish, then divide the preparation into about a dozen pieces, which roll up into round balls, or any other shape, and throw them into the bread- crumbs, move them over until well covered, then roll them into the egg, then the bread-crumbs again, from which take them gently, patting the surface lightly with a knife, put them into very hot lard or fat to fry ot a yellowish-brown colour, being careful not to break them whilst frying; when done, drain them upon a cloth, and serve either upon a napkin, or with tried parsley. 433. A FAMILY FRENCH SALAD FOR THE SUM- MER.—I can assure you that when in France, during the hot weather, I used to enjoy the following salads immensely, having them usually twice a week for my dinner; they are not only wholesome, but cheap and quickly done. Cut up a pound of cold beef into thin slices, which put into a salad-bowl, with about half a pound of white fresh lettuce, cut into pieces similar to the beef, season over with a good teaspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, two spoonfuls of vinegar, and five of good salad oil, stir all together lightly with a fork and spoon, and when well mixed it is ready to serve. For a change, cabbage-lettuce may be used, or, if in season, a little endive (well washed), or a little celery, or a few gherkins; also, to vary the seasoning, a little chopped tarragon and chervil, chopped eschalots, or a little scraped garlic, if approved of, but all in proportion, and used with moderation. White haricot beans are also excellent with it. Remains of cold veal, mutton, or lamb, may be dressed the same way. 434. POTATOES AND MEAT SALAD.—Proceed as in the last, but omitting the lettuce; if any cold potatoes remain from a previous dinner, peel and cut them in halves if small, but in quarters if large, and then into pieces the size of a shilling, but four times the thickness; put them into a salad-bowl with the meat, seasoning as before, but using more oil and vinegar and adding a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. A small quantity