soyer’s charitable cookery. 484 “ Finding, besides, in many instances, very great confusion in the distribution of the soup, the same quantity (or nearly so) being given indiscriminately to each applicant without cor- rectly ascertaining the number of persons in each family. After seriously reflecting on this all-important and pressing subject, I am happy to inform you, Mr. Editor, that I have contrived the plan of a kitchen for the making and distribution of soup and food to the poor, of a very simple construction, by which a thousand gallons, more or less, of excellent and very economical food may be made in a very few hours, at about two or three farthings a quart, which could be fairly, cleanly, and quickly distributed to thousands of people once or twice a day if required. I do not mean to choose any particular ingredients, but merely the production of any county in the United Kingdom, and if some parts should be entirely deprived of provisions, the cheapest that could be obtained would do. The simplicity of the plan (as I before observed) consists in the use of two uten- sils of some importance, and may be made on any scale, accord- ing to locality, and by which, from fifty to one thousand or more applicants could be supplied with food—those kitchens could be erected temporarily in a public place or a field. Mr. Editor, I am so confident of the success of the undertaking, that I not only offer my humble services gratuitously, by giving the plan and superintending the fittings of the first kitchen that may be erected, and give publicity to the receipt for making the soup; but, independently of that, I beg to ofl'er £30 as my subscription towards the immediate erection of those indispen- sable establishments, which would at once relieve, efficaciously, the greatest number of sufferers. Having just submitted, and minutely explained my plan to a scientific friend, he generously offered, in addition to my subscription, ,£20, being together £50, which will be deposited in the hands of a charitable com- mittee, where a general subscription will be opened. “ I shall do myself the pleasure of forwarding to you, Mr. Editor, the receipt for making the soup in a very few days, being now seriously occupied in experiments to bring it to the greatest perfection, as a valuable and economical nourishment for the necessitous. “ I am, Sir, most respectfully yours, “A. SOYER.” “ To the Editor of the Times."