ENTREES. 287 These can be served with either green peas, sprue grass, or mushrooms, which must be stewed and prepared as if ready to serve; put some in the stewpan with the eggs, and proceed as before. If meagre, use cream instead of butter. 592. EGGS WITH BURNT BUTTER. — Put into a frying-pan two ounces of butter, which melt; as soon as it is on the point of browning, put in the eggs, which have been pre- viously broken in a basin, and seasoned with pepper and salt; when well set, serve, with a teaspoonful of vinegar over the eggs. 594. EGGS A LA TRIPE.—Cut about two onions each into thin slices, put them in a saucepan, with half an ounce of fresh butter, and set them on a slow fire; when warmed through, put half a teaspoonful of salt, quarter ditto of pepper, a teaspoonful of flour, half a pint of milk, and a little sugar; let it boil, put in six hard eggs cut in quarters, and serve, after a little ebullition. 595. SNOW EGGS.—Take half a pint of milk and a little sugar, and flavour it with orange-flower water, or any other essence, and put it in a stewpan on the fire, having previously- beaten up the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth; if very hot weather, you must place the basin they are in on ice, or in cold water; whilst beating, add some powdered sugar lightly; when the milk is boiling, take the white up with a tablespoon, and drop it, one tablespoonful at a time, into the stewpan to poach, keeping the shape of an egg, which turn over when set; when done, remove with a colander on to a sieve, and dress them in a crown on the dish you intend to serve them on; when all done, beat up the yolks of four of the eggs in a stewpan, with a little sugar and a few drops of orange-flower water, pour part of the boiling milk out of the stewpan into it, sufficient to make a good stiff custard, put it on the fire until rather thick, and pour over the white, and serve either hot or cold: the last is pre- ferable. 596. EGGS WITH CHEESE.—Put into a stewpan about two ounces of grated Parmesan, or Gruyere, or old Cheshire with one ounce of butter, two sprigs of parsley, two spring- onions chopped up, a little grated nutmeg, and half a glass of sherry; put it on the fire, and keep stirring until the cheese is