soyer’s charitable cookery. 500 take them off, and remove the upper shell; sometimes a small crab will he iound in them, which remove, as they are rather unwholesome; replace them, with their liquor and bottom shell, in the pan, add a spoonful of flour, mixed with some butter or lard, and a spoonful of chopped parsley; stir it in, and stew for five minutes, and serve. For a large quantity have ready the large boiler, put therein four pounds of lard or butter, and four pounds of sliced onions, and fry for five minutes; have ready two pails full of mussels with their liquor out of their shell, which put in the boiler, with one pound of salt, two ounces of pepper, two ounces of sugar, and two pounds of chopped parsley; have ready two pounds of flour, mixed with water, to consistence of good cream, and put it into the bpiler; boil for ten to fifteen minutes, stir it gently with a wooden spatula, and serve; if not required meagre, use instead of the flour and water, the same quantity of boiling stock, from the bones of meat, or from cow-heel, well stewed, parts of which, cut small, can be added: any flavour of herbs may be given, if liked. RECEIPT NO. 22. COLOURING, AND MELTED EAT. Put half a pound of brown sugar into an iron saucepan, and melt it over a moderate fire; when melted, stir it continually till quite black, then add one quart of water, and it is ready for use. For melting the fat, put it into a black saucepan, with a little water, and fry it until it becomes a deep yellow colour, stirring it all the time; have ready a coarse cloth and pan, pour the fat into the cloth, twist round each end tight, and you will obtain all the fat required. If fat or dripping cannot be obtained to draw down the glaze, use a small quantity of water. RECEIPT NO. 23.—MANGEL WURZEL. 4 Take the middle part of the leaves or stalk of the mangel wurzel, and peel the outside as you do for rhubarb, cut them into equal lengths and tie them up like asparagus; boil, with some salt in the water, for twenty minutes, and serve, with a