79 CONDIMENTS. SAVORY. There are two kinds, the winter and summer; the latter con- tains the most flavour—it can be easily dried and bottled lor keeping. BASIL is also a herb in great use; it is not a native of this country, but yet grows to great perfection if well cultivated. The aromatic smell which it possesses is very similar to cloves : there are two kinds, the sweet basil, ocymum basdicum; and the least basil, ocymum minimum. The first pos- sesses the most flavour and smell. 1HYME. There are two, the lemon, thymus citriodorus, and the common thyme, thymus vulgaris; the first is the best to use in all dishes wherever this herb is required. PENNY ROYAL is not much in use in cookery, but can be used where mint cannot be had. MINT.— Spearmint or common mint is that which is most in use; it should never be used in large quantities. Some of it infused in vinegar, Ind the vinegar afterwards used with a salad, gives a fine flavour and a novelty to that dish, and is used in vinegar with lamb. SAGE is an important herb, and by many considered an agreeable condi- ment; there are several kinds; that whose leaves have a purple tin-e is considered best for culinary use. PARSLEY, although at present so prominent in use in our kitchens, was unknown to our forefathers ; it is only within a century that it has become so general: it was introduced into this country from Italy. There are three varieties, the common or plain-leaved, the curled or double-leaved, and the broad-leaved; the curled is the best-looking, but has not so much flavour as the common; the broad-leaved is used for its root, which is excellent, cut UfP i, S°UP’ &C' 14 may be obtained a11 tJie year. To keep it well, “ b61dned and cut and placed in well-corked bottles, but should only be used when fresh cannot be procured. • 18 n0t S° mUCh USCd aS H °Ught t0 be J if used “ore in soup, nstead of the stronger herbs, it would be liked; but great care must be serve in using of it, as its aromatic qualities are quickly dissipated by beat. _ It is a native of the north of Europe, and known in botany as the <irtc7m#ia dracuncidus. CLARY is a plant of the sage kind; its leaves are sometimes used to flavour soups, and is liked by a few. ”d ^oten ”th