PASTRY. 348 786. APPLE FRITTERS.—Mix one pound of flour with half a pint of milk or water, then half a pound of butter melted in a stewpan, mix well together with a wooden spoon very smooth, thin it a little with table-beer or water, whisk the whites of three eggs very stiff, stir in gently; have six apples, peeled, cut in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, the cores taken out with a cutter, dip each piece in the butter, and fry in hot lard about six minutes; to fry well the fat should not be too hot at first, but get hotter as it proceeds; they should be crisp, and of a nice golden colour; serve on a napkin, and sift sugar over. 787. DITTO, PEACHES.—Skim and cut in halves six ripe but fine peaches, take out the stones, have a batter prepared as the last, dip them in, fry and serve the same. 788. DITTO, APRICOTS.—Cut in halves, and proceed as above, and sugar over until quite brown. 789. DITTO, ORANGES.—Peel four oranges, divide them in quarters by the thin skin, without cutting the flesh, and pro- ceed as before. Any other fruit may be done in the same way, and can, if required, be soaked in wine or brandy previously, but they do not fry so well. 790. ENTREMET IMPROMPTU.—Cut some slices of bread off a half-quartern stale loaf, three quarters of an inch thick, and cut it into lozenges two inches long, put into a deep dish, and place in a stewpan half a pint of milk, which boil with one ounce of sugar and the rind of a small orange; when boiling, pour over the bread, which allow to soak for one minute, take each piece, then drain off the milk, have one egg well beaten, dip each piece of bread into it, and then add some fine bread-crumbs, and fry it in light fat until a golden colour, add pounded sugar over each, and salamander over. Any kind of preserve, as apricot, marmalade, or currant jelly, strawberry jam, &c., mixed with a little brandy or wine, makes an excellent sauce to be served with this impromptu dish. 791. PANCAKE WITH MARMALADE.—Put a quarter of a pound of sifted flour into a basin, with four eggs, mix them together very smoothly, then add half a pint of milk or cream.