REMOVES. 187 thickness of cream sauce; pour over the head and serve. It can also be egged and bread-crumbed, and placed in the oven for twenty minutes to get a nice brown colour, and may be served with sauces Nos. 155, 170. 336. CALF’S HEAD, NORMANDY FASHION.— Having boiled the half head with the skin on, take the brain, which you have already blanched, and beat up with half a pint of milk, a little pepper and salt, add the pulp of two baked apples and two boiled onions beaten up, place them in a stewpan and boil gently for a short time; pass through a sieve, take about a pint of the liquor in which the head has been boiled, and put the brain, &c. in it, give it a gentle simmer, stirring it often; it should be the consistency of thick cream; having removed the skin from the tongue, cut it into slices, and put in the sauce; when ready to serve, stir a whole egg well into it, place the head in a dish, and pour over. MUTTON.—Tlie sheep, when killed, is generally divided into two, by cutting across about two ribs below the shoulder ; these are called the fore- and-hind-quarters : the former contains the head, neck, breast, and shoulder; the latter, the leg and loin; or the two loins together, the saddle or chine; or the leg and four ribs of the loin, the haunch. The entrails are called the pluck, which are the liver, lights, heart, sweetbread, and melt. When cut up, the kernel at the tail, that in the fat in the thick part of the leg, and the pipe that runs along the bone of the chine, should be removed. The flavour depends on the breed and pasture; that is best which has a dark- coloured flesh, of a fine grain, well mixed with fat, which must be firm and white. Wether mutton is the best; the meat of ewe mutton is of a paler colour, and the fat yellow and spongy. To keep a loin, saddle, or haunch, the kidney-fat should be removed, and the place nibbed with a little salt. Mutton should never be cooked unless it has hung forty-eight hours after it is killed; and it can be kept for twenty-one days, and sometimes longer in a severe winter.