ENTREES. 253 cutting about eight chops from the loin, three of which should have a piece of the kidney attached. I also cut two chops from the chump, which are very excellent eating, although clumsier in shape. Lay three of them upon a gridiron over a rather brisk but very clear fire, for, if smoky, it would entirely spoil the look and flavour of the lamb; and when just warmed through, season upon each side with a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of that quantity of pepper; broil of a nice yellow colour, and serve with fried parsley over if convenient; or lay some nice mashed potatoes upon your dish, and serve the chops upon it. 475. LAMB CHOPS IN PAPER WITH FINE HERBS. —Cut a piece of foolscap paper in the shape of a heart, (and sufficiently large to fold a lamb chop in,) rub a little oil over the paper, then season the chop with a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots, one of chopped parsley, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; wrap the chop in the paper, which plait down at the edges, lay it upon a gridiron over a slow fire, turning it fre- quently; it will take about twenty minutes to broil properly, when done serve in the paper very hot. 476. LAMB CHOPS SAUTE.—Put a piece of butter into a clean saute or frying-pan, and when melted lay in two chops rather highly seasoned with pepper and salt; saute it until thoroughly done and but lightly browned, and serve. Should gravy be required, pour oft' the greater part of the fat, and then stir in half a tablespoonful ol flour, add a gill of broth or water, and a little colouring; stir with a wooden spoon, boiling five minutes, finish with an ounce of fresh butter and the juice of halt a lemon; shake the pan over the fire until the sauce becomes rather thick, when pour over and serve. 4/7. PORK CUTLETS.—Choose a small neck, cut eight cutlets out of it of the same shape as the mutton, only leaving a little more fat on it, season, egg, and bread-crumb, saute in pan, serve with either sauces Robert, poiverade, piquante, tartare. 478. PORK CUTLETS WITH PICKLE. — Sautd, broil, or fry the chops, as in the preceding; make about a gill of melted butter, add to it two tablespoonfuls of liquor of piccalilly, and six or eight pieces of the pickle cut small; when very hot put on your dish, and dress your cutlets over, or if for a lar^a dish, dress cutlets in a crown, and sauce in the middle.