24 BREAKFASTS. previously, and lias created fiabits of sobriety. It is a plant indigenous to China, Japan, and Siam, and consists of many varieties, the proper mixing of which constitutes the great art of a tea-dealer. It is exceedingly useful in many cases of sickness, and particularly after having partaken of any liquor to excess, or after extraordinary fatigue. , When new, it is a narcotic ; but when old it has a different effect ;* in its native country it is never par- taken of until a year old, and not then, unless exceedingly desiccated. I cannot recommend you any one in particular, as that depends on taste ; but this I advise, that when you have a kind to your liking, keep to it. And now, my dear friend, without wishing in the least to offend you, or attempting to aggravate your good nature, I must beg to contradict your assertion, made at the commencement of our undertaking, where you say, respecting tea, of course I know how to make it; you made it whilst staj ing at our house occasionally, and Mr. B. found there was a great difference between it and mine. But to tell you the truth respecting tea, I have a little secret of my own, being a discovery which I made a short time ago by accident. Whilst in the act of making tea, I had just put the dry tea in the pot, when I heard a fearful scream up-stairs in the drawing-room ; rushing there, I found my little girl had had a severe fall in reaching something from the chimney-piece, the stool upon which she stood having upset. twenty minutes at least elapsed before I returned to my tea (which, being alone, I was in no particular hurry for), when I found that the servant, thinking there was water in the pot, and fearing the tea would be spoiled, put it into the oven, which was rather hot; when she brought it to me I was rather annoyed, when all at once it struck me that the leaves being hot through, the tea would not require so long to draw; I then filled the tea-pot with boiling- -vater, and in a minute afterwards had a most delicious cup of tea, since which 1 have adopted the system upon all occasions, and am now having made a small spirit-lamp to warm the pot and leaves, as the oven is not always hot; it may, however, be made hot in front of the fire, but must not be placed too close. I gave the receipt to o£ of our neighbours, who actually laughed * Some few years since, having a great deal of writing to do within a certain time, and which could not be done without employing the night as well as the day, I partook of weak green tea, with a little brandy, sugar, and lemon-juice, as a beverage, and, with light food, I was enabled to do it w i but eighteen hours’ sleep, from eight o’clock on Monday morning to five o’clock on the following Sunday morning.