257 ENTREES. cut off, put the trimmed one between the two, flatten them to- gether, so that the fat of the outside ones meet over the middle one; tie them together thus, and broil over a very strong fire for ten minutes; remove it from the fire, cut the string, and dish up the middle one only on a very hot dish, with a little salt sprinkled over it. If wanted roasted, proceed as above. 490. ROAST AND BRAISED CHICKEN, for Entrees. —Have a chicken trussed for boibng; put it on a spit, envelope it as for turkey (No. 381), roast half the time or little less, depending on the fire and the size of the chicken; when done, remove it from the spit, and take off the envelope, and serve with any of the following garniture:—jardiniere, green peas, oysters, cucumbers, Jerusalem artichokes, white mushroom sauce, ragout of quenelles, juice of tarragon (No. 386), Dutch sauce, with a few heads of cauliflower well boiled, and cut small. 491. BRAISED CHICKEN.—If not convenient to roast, put a little bacon in a stewpan, then a chicken, a large onion, hall a carrot, half a head of celery, two bay leaves, two cloves, one peppercorn, one and a half tablespoonful of salt, a little pepper, a bouquet garni, and a quart of water, let simmer till tender; dish up, after having well drained it, take the string oil, pour any of the sauces named in the foregoing receipt over or under them; when the chicken is done, you can make, with the addition of a little more water, a very good puree, and even sauces, and by adding some trimmings of beef, veal, lamb, or mutton, it will make a first-rate clear broth, after beino- clarified giving it a proper colour. 492. CHICKEN PLAIN BOILED.—Put two quarts of water into a stewpan, on the fire, or two ounces of butter, and a tablespoonful ol salt, and a few vegetables; when boiling rub the breast of the chicken with half a lemon, and put it°in to simmer from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes; if a laro-e iowl, increase the quantity of water, and boil longer; sauce over with parsley and butter, or celery sauce, or any of those for the foregoing: use the broth. The remains of any of the above, or of turkey, capon, guinea- lovvl, or other poultry, may be dressed as hash, by cutting them into neat pieces; put them into a stewpan, put to it half a°table- spoonful of salt, one of flour, half a one of chopped onions ditto ol parsley, a bay-leaf, half a pint of water, a few drops of