FISH. 149 Dory, or John Dory.—The name of this fish is derived from the French jaune dori (yellow gilded). It also rivals the haddock with the superstitious in some countries, as being the fish from whose mouth €1. Peter took the tribute money; but if we are to credit the fact, then the origin of the marks i3 of an earlier date than the haddock ; for some of the fathers of the church assert that it was St. Christopher, who, wading through an arm of the sea, caught one, cn passant, and left the impression of his fingers as an eternal, memorial of the fact. I cannot find that it was held in high estimation amongst the Romans; indeed, its forbidding appearance is against it. This is the fish of which so many anecdotes are related of the celebrated comedian Quin, who was, par excellence, the gourmet and epicure of the last century. This fish requires to be eaten fresh, and should never be smaller than one foot in length. They are now held in high estimation. 260. JOHN DORIES, BOULOGNE FASHION.— John Dories, though not very handsome, are very delicate eating; choose them from lour to six pounds in weight, the thicker the better, and boil as directed for turbot; one of the above size would require about three quarters of an hour, if any remain, dress like turbot, or with caper sauce, &c. Sole, Blaclc Sole.—This fish is now supplied to the London market in great abundance, principally from the North Sea. Its flavour, like other fish, in a great measure depends upon the ground where it feeds. It lives principally on small crabs and shell-fish, and will take bait, as a lug-worm. The colour of its back depends on the colour of the ground where it feeds ; if on a light sandy bottom, it is the white or lemon sole ; on a muddy bottom, the black sole. They are caught in trawl nets ; that is, a net in the shape of a pocket, from sixty to eighty feet long, and open at the mouth, from thirty-two to forty feet by three deep ; this is dragged along the ground by the vessel; and on the ability of the fisherman depends the quality and flavour of the fish; if he sails slow, the fish is likely to avoid or escape from the net; if very fast* the fish are all swept at the end of the net and get smothered ; and thus it is that we sometimes find at our table a sole with the vein which runs down e side of the bone perfectly black, it being full of congealed blood • this Tem sometimes breaks, and discolours the part round which it does so.