370 REMOVES. it into one quart of cream, and cover it up; let it cool as quickly as possible on ice, add five ounces of powdered sugar, and pro- ceed as above. 866. "V AN1LLA SOUFFLE CREAM. — Cut a pod of vanilla small, pound it with sugar, sift it through a fine sieve, and add it to your cream, or add some drops of essence of vanilla, and proceed as directed above. 867. FONDUE OF PARMESAN AND GRUYERE, or any other grated Cheese.—Put a quarter of a pound of butter and six ounces of flour in a stewpan, mix them well together (without melting' the butter) with a wooden spoon, then add rather more than a pint of boiling milk, stir over the fire, boil twenty minutes, then add the yolks of five eggs (stir in well), half a pound of grated Parmesan, and a quarter of a pound of grated Gruyere cheese; season with half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, and half a saltspoonful of cayenne; if too thick add two or three whole eggs to give it the consistency of a souffle, whip the five whites of egg firm, stir them gently into the mixture, have ready a croustade prepared as for the souffle, (No. 856), pour in the above mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven; it will require a little longer time than the souffle, dish and serve the same. 868. NEAPOLITAN FONDUE. — Prepare half of the mixture as in the last, but previous to adding the whites of eggs stir in a quarter of a pound of good macaroni blanched, and cut into pieces an inch in length; add the whites, bake, and serve as before. 869. FONDUE (simple method).—Put two ounces of Gruyere and two ounces of Parmesan cheese (grated) into a basin, (or, if you have not got them, use English cheese), with a little salt, pepper, and cayenne, add the yolks of six eggs, with a quarter of a pound of butter melted (mix well), whip the whites of the six eggs, stir gently into the other ingredients, fill small paper cases with it, bake about a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven, dress upon a napkin, and serve very hot. 870. FONDUE OF STILTON CHEESE.—Put six ounces of butter and half a pound of flour in a stewpan, rub well to- gether with a wooden spoon, then add a quart of warm milk, stir