soyer’s modern housewife. Colburn’s Magazine.--" It is, indeed, one of those hooks which only require to be announced to ensure popularity. M. Soyer does nothing like anybody else.” Court Journal.—" This work is well calculated to work a thorough reform in the barbarous style of dinner and evening parties in English middle society.” Observer.—“ We consider his present book a most useful one, and are certain that it will be more popular than either that of Mrs. Rundell or Mrs. Glasse. The chief value of this book rests upon its economical principles, and it almost tells you how to make something out of nothing.” Atlas.—"We invite all our readers, each of whom is sure to buy the book, to send their several experiences on the subject.” Iiancet.—“ We give no extracts, as the book ought to be read, and in the hands of every keeper of a kitchen and larder in the kingdom. In fact, M. Soyer is the Brougham of literary, practical, and eloquent cnmniers.” Dispatch.—“ We hail with pleasure another work from the pen of the far-famed and ingenious chef, Mons. Soyer, who will be ever gratefully re- membered by the housewives/of England, even after the names of Ude and Careme have sunk into oblivion.” United Service Gazette.—-"The ‘Modern Housewife’ is the result of Soyer’s consecration of his thoughts to the comfort of meaner mortals than those for whom he had formerly catered.” Builder.—“ We introduce M. Soyer’s ‘ Modern Housewife,’ with a full conviction that she will prove a useful adviser.” Bell’s Xtife.—" We would that all young ladies included in their studies the art of housekeeping—the true secret of making their husbands and those about them happy.” ^XTeeltly Chronicle.—“No extract can give an idea of a book which, from cover to cover, is so full of good things, none of them requiring labour to digest.” Family Circle.—“ The name of Soyer has become almost historical.” Hampshire Advertiser.—"All is sensible and unique, and calculated to improve the taste and economize the expenditure.” Durham Chronicle.—“ All those who have the health to enjoy a good dinner, are indebted to M. Soyer for his judiciously-arranged battery of recipes, and young housewives especially will find this book most valuable.” Bxeter Flying1 Post.—“The name of Soyer is renowned in all matters appertaining to gastronomy—indeed, his authority is undisputed in the art of cookery.”