NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 47a above, only, when half done, take a quarter pound butter, put it all over your cake in small bits; put back for ten minutes, sugar over with a little cinnamon; colour it with a red-hot shovel, and serve as you choose, but in various shapes. Preserved ginger may be put on the top, and currants, raisins, or sultanas. 63. PANCAKES.—Break two eggs in a basin, add to it a drop of milk, a little salt, half ounce of sugar, beat well with a fork, add to the whole quarter pound of four, stir well, to make a very smooth paste, mix with a cup of milk by degrees; put one ounce of butter, lard, or good dripping, in a fryingpan; when rather hot, put three or four table spoonfuls of your batter- When cooked on one side, turn over and let it be done the same on the other, then lay it on a baking sheet; cut some peeled apple in thin slices, cover your cake with a layer of it, add some brown sugar, in which you have mixed a little ground cinna- mon; make another pancake, which put over this; lay on a little sugar, and bake a quarter of an hour; serve hot. It is also good cold. Pears may be used instead of apples. 64- ORANGE PANCAKE.—Peel two nice oranges, cut them in slices crossways, cover your first pancake with them, sugar over according to taste; lay the other over, sprinkle with white sugar, bake, and serve. , ,Amo“g culiuary innovations I am rather pleased with my new in 7^°St eIery ,great cook has invented a new pudding, while the humble and hereditary tart has remained for centuries as it was when our ancestors flpf!+nhn?r+en; v 13>iherefol;e; !™e to make a stark no matter how, and raise tzuts to that position they so highly deserve. 65. NEW TART.—Peel some apples, cut them in rather thin slices,^ boil quarter pound rice in quart of water till tender, put m a sieve; when dry put in a basin, add two ounces of sugar, in which a little cinnamon has been mixed, with two ounces of butter; stir lightly, put a layer of rice and a layer of apple alternately till full; add a little more sugar on the apples; make the border of your dish damp, put on a thin rim of paste (No. oO) round it; make a good thick pancake, like No. 63,—it must be under-done; moisten the rim of paste, place it over, fix it by damping the rim of the cake; fix artistically another thin band ol the same paste, trim neatly, egg over, sprinkle sugar, bake as