SECOND COURSE. 345 over, trim the edges, mark it down every three inches, and then crosswise every inch; bake in hot oven, sugar over, and sala- mander. When nearly cold, cut it where you have marked it; thus, a piece twelve inches square will give you forty-eight pieces; dish as a crown or pyramid, twelve pieces make a nice dish for a party. They may be made of any puff paste which is left, but will not be so light as if made on purpose; can be cut to any fanciful shape you please. 775. NOUGAT OF APRICOT.—Proceed as above, but lay apricot marmalade all over a quarter of an inch thick, blanched almonds, cut into fillets, mixed with two ounces of sugar, and the white of an egg added to it, bake in a moderate oven, and cut in true lozenge shapes (I do not mean those things called lozenges, but a diamond shape), dish up on a napkin in crown or pyramid; they ought to be of a nice transparent colour. Orange, apple, or quince marmalade may be used instead of apricot. Red fruit preserve does not cook well. / (6.^ CRUSTS OF FRUIT.—Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute or frying-pan, sprinkle a little sugar over, cut four or five slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick, three inches long, and one and a half wide, lay in your pan; take one dozen of greengages, open them in two, they must not be too ripe, lay the skin part on your bread, put a pinch of sugar in each, put it in a hot oven for twenty minutes; have ready a salamander or a hot shovel, and hold it over it for a few minutes dish and serve hot or cold; the oven ought to be hot enough to give a nice yellow colour to the bottom, which will eat crisp. 777. CRUSTS WITH MADEIRA.—Cut a French penny roll lengthwise m four or five slices, put the yolks of two with four spoonfuls of milk, mix it in a plate, dip quickly each piece in it, and saute in a quarter of a pound of butter which you have previously melted in a pan, leave them on the fire until they have obtained a nice gold colour on both sides, put a spoonfui of apricot marmalade in a stewpan, with two glasses ot Madeira, and place on the fire; when on the point of boilin^ pour over the bread, which you have previously put in a plate’ and serve very hot. Any preserve may be used, also any white wine; and should you have no French rolls, any fancy roll will do, or stale brioche (No. 11) is excellent for them.