205 POULTRY. To Draw Poultry.—After it is well plucked, make a long incision at the back of the neck, take out the thin skin from under the outer containing the crop, cut the neck off close to the body of the bird, but leave the neck skin a good length, make another incision under the tail just large enough for the gizzard to pass through, no larger; then put your finger into the bird, and remove the crop, then loosen and detach all the intestines, taking care not to break the gall bladder, squeeze the body of the bird, so as to force out the whole of them at the tail; it is then ready for trussing, the method of doing which will be given in the various Receipts throughout this series. The above method of drawing poultry is equally applicable to game. TURKEY.—The flesh of this bird depends greatly upon its feeding; it might be made much more valuable for table if proper attention were paid to it. A young one should have his legs black and smooth, and spurs short, his eyes fresh and the feet limber. It is singular that this bird should take its name from a country in which it was never seen ; in other countries in Europe it is called the Indian cock, because the West Indies, on the first discovery of America by Columbus, was supposed to be part of the continent of India ; and this bird, being brought over on the first voyage, it was thus named. By many it is supposed to have been introduced by the Jesuits in Spain and Portugal, and it is pro- bable they were the first who domesticated it, and it is thus called a Jesuit in many parts of Europe. I have seen it stated that it was known to the Romans and was served at the marriage of Charlemagne. Prom my researches I rather think it is confounded with the pheasant. It has more flavour than any other of our domestic birds, and is, consequently, held in higher estima- tion, and commands a higher price. Do not fear these long receipts, as each one contains several. ^ 378. PLAIN ROASTED TURKEY, WITH SAU- SAGES. This well-known dish, which has the joyous recollection of Christinas attached to it, and its well-known cognomen ot “an alderman in chains,” brings to our mind’s eye the famed hospitality of this mighty city. The following is my plan of cooMng it. It must be first trussed as followsHaving first emptied it, break the leg-bone close to the foot, and draw out the sinews from the thi°h, cut off the neck close to the back, leaving the skin long;