198 REMOVES. 358. LAMB’S HEAD.—See Sheep’s Head (No. 349). This will take half the time to cook. 859. LAMB’S FRY.—Take about a pound and boil for ten minutes in half a gallon of water, take it out and dry- on a cloth ; have some fresh crumbs, mix with them half a spoonful of chopped parsley", salt, pepper; egg the fry lightly with a paste-brush, dip it in the crumbs, fry for five minutes, serve very hot on a clean napkin in a dish, with fried parsley over. 360. LAMB’S HEAD WITH HOLLANDAISE.— If you want it very white, make stock as for sheep’s feet, put it to stew, when done lay on dish with about twelve new potatoes (boiled) round it, pour over some cream sauce (No. 301), and serve. 361. LAMB’S HEAD, WITH BRAIN OR LIVER. Blanch the brain or liver, and mince them as for sheep’s head, introducing only the yolk of an egg; mix with a little milk, stir in quick, add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of half a lemon, lay it on the dish with the head over, and serve. PORK.—The flesh of no other animal depends so much upon feeding as that of pork. The greatest care ought to be observed in feeding it, at least twenty-one days previous to its being killed; it should fast for twenty-four hours before. No animal is more used for nourishment, and none more in- dispensable in the kitchen; employed either fresh or salt, all is useful, even to its bristles and its blood; it is the superfluous riches of the farmer, and helps to pay the rent of the cottager. It is cut up the same as the ox. The fore-quarter is the fore-loin and spring; if it is a large pig, the sparenb may be cut off. The hind-quarter is the leg and loin. There is also the head and haslet (which is the liver, kidney, craw, and skirts), and also chitterlings, which arc cleansed for sausages and black puddings. For boiling or roastmg it should never be older than six months, and the leg must not weigh more than from six to seven pounds. The sliort-legged, thick-necked, and small- headed pigs are the best breed, a cross from the Chinese. If fresh and young.