NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 458 in slices, one ounce of dripping, and a gill of water; set the sauce- pan and fry on the fire, stirring it round now and then, till hardly any liquor remains at the bottom, then add a gallon of water, skim as soon as it boils, add a quarter of a pound of barley; when boiled two hours, it will be done. Pour into a tureen, meat aud all, remove the fat on the top, if any, and serve. If you have any leeks, celery (tops and all), carrots, turnips, &c., handy, you may cut some in dice and put them in with the barley; they will be an improvement; but be careful not to put too much. 2. IRISH STEW SOUP.—Cut a pound of mutton as above, fry and season in the same manner, only add double the quantity of pepper, add two quarts of water, boil very gently; in short, proceed as with the above soup; peel, wash, and cut in slices a pound of potatoes, add them to the soup; boil till the whole forms a puree, and serve; a few leaves of parsley, a few marigold flowers, or a pinch of thyme, or bay-leaf, or winter savory, and spice, will be a good variation. This soup I repeat here for the pur- pose of making it popular; nothing can be better, and more economical for a numerous family, by, of course, increasing the quantity as required. 3. BEEF RICE SOUP.—Cut one pound of leg of beef, or trimmings of beef, free from too much fat and bone; put it in your saucepan, with two onions, two cloves, or turnips, leeks, celery. &c.,—in fact, use what you have,—about a quarter of a pound of vegetables altogether; add half an ounce of salt, a little pepper and sugar, one ounce of dripping, a gill of water; fry as for mutton soup; add two quarts of water, two ounces of rice, boil slowly till both meat and rice are tender, and serve. 4. VEAL BROTH.—Make in the same manner, but some- times vary with vermicelli, semolina, tapioca, sago; these are all now very cheap, on account of the people understanding very little the use of them. 5. VEAL CURRY SOUP.—Cut the veal as for beef soup, fry also in the same manner, then add a tablespoonful of curry powder, the best and cheapest you can get, add one apple cut in dice, a tablespoonful of flour, stir round; pour on it two quarts of water, stir till it boils, add one ounce of rice, simmer gently till tender, serve in a tureen.