SECOND COURSE. 343 is too hot, cover with a sheet of paper, dress, and serve in pyramid upon your dish. They ought to be of a light colour. 770. RISSOLE FOURREE.—This is made as the rissole for entrees; it is a very simple receipt, and I vary it continually without the slightest difficulty; instead of making it with orange, I substitute apricot marmalade, apple, raspberry, strawberry, or greengage jam; but no jelly, as currant or apple, as it would run through the paste, and look bad. To vary the appearance at table, instead of egging, dust them lightly over with some coarse powdered sifted sugar, then bake them white instead of brown; if the oven is too hot, cover with a sheet of paper, put a little maimalade or jam in a ring which you have selected, and serve. By blanching and chopping a few pistachios, and mixing with the sugar, makes them look very inviting, or even chopped sweet almonds changes the flavour; they may also be filled with any preparation of cream, rice, or vermicelli, prepared as for croquets. I also change them by sauteeing, as they are much quicker done, and make a very nice dish._ To remove the roast of the second course, I put six at a time in the saute-pan (see page 72), which must be hot, and saute a few minutes until a nice pale yellow colour, serve with sifted sugar over, or egg and bread-crumb; serve very hot; if any left cold, warm in the oven. 771. FLANC MERINGUE OF APPLE.-Sometimes I make a meringue of three eggs, as No. 772; when it is hard, I cover the apples with it half an inch thick, keeping the pyramid; then I put the remainder in a paper cornet; cut the point so that by pressing it the mixture may go out by degrees, with which I make various designs, according to fancy; sugar over, and put for half an hour to bake in a very slow oven; the colour ought to be pale yellow; they are equally good hot or cold. If you would keep it quite white, bake it in a still slower oven, and give it a quarter of an hour longer. When I do it so, I merely make dots all over about a quarter of an inch distant from each other, of the size of small nuts, sugar over, and put a Corinth raisin m each knob which gives it a good appearance, and bake as directed; when the eggs are just set, you may cover it with a sneet of paper, to prevent it taking too much colour. 772. MERINGUES IN SPOONS.-Pound and sift one stTl TP SUgai’- ^i8k the Whites of tvvelve eggs very stiff, throw the sugar lightly over, and with a wooden spoon stffi