BAKING —BOILING—STEWING. G9- the old Goldsmith’s Hall, a fireplace, consisting of stages, on which was laid the wood, and when the meat, &c. was spitted and arranged before it, the wood was lighted, and a man turned the spits. (It was, no doubt, from arranging the wood thus in stages, that the name of range was derived.) In many noblemen’s castles and ecclesiastical establishments, dogs were kept to turn the spit, from whence we have those of the name of turnspit; whilst in others, where there happened to be a person of a mechanical turn of mind, they applied a water-wheel to the purpose, and the water from it formed a stream in the kitchen, which served as a reservoir for live fish. Different opinions exist as to the mode and time required for roasting, but this must all depend upon the nature of the fire and the meat. In the Receipts will be found the time which each requires. My plan is to make up as large a fire as the nature of the grate will allow, because I can place my joint near or not, as may be required, and thus obtain every degree of heat. A new plan of toasting by Gas has latterly come into use, and from the cheapness and cleanliness of the process is likely to become a great favourite. BAKING is a branch of the art of cooking which, although one of the oldest, is the least understood. (As I shall have to refer to this subject a«ain, I will give the reason why in a fiiture letter.) It is performed in various •mds of air-tight chambers, called ovens, the best of which have the same form as in the time of the Egyptians. Of late years an improvement has been effected in the construction of the oven, and to heat it by hot water. One of he first was erected by M. Soyer, in Dublin. Previous to the art of aking being practised, boiled pulse and com were the food of the people • even ome contained no bakers until near six hundred years after it was founded Great improvements were made, some fifty years since, by Count Romford he cons ruction of ovens for baking of meat, called roasting ovens, nch caused great economy in the expenditure of fuel; and, in large public establishments, where a number of the same kind nf • • + ° ? tv . . , , . 8ame °i joints are required, it " tat plan of cooking. In the Heceipts will b. found the time required by each for baking, but in the general way, for meat, hot ovens L the ninrd b1” ™<> P“try, porting to it, kind. I„ iron f°r 0””' “‘I’ to be of galvanized iron, and separate ones for meat and fish. BOILING is the next branch of the art which is nf ™ * • r ■»-» y«t, .t t„e, i ,bu * “bj“i ^ **«—- ^d oo»P;r^“: