NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 4C0 11. HARICOT.—For fourpence you may procure a quart of haricot beans; if you can obtain those of the present year, so much the better, if not, you must boil them a little longer; put them in a stewpan with a gallon of water, two ounces of butter, one ounce of salt; set on the fire, and when boiling, allow them to simmer for at least three hours, or till quite tender; strain off all the water, which set aside for soup; add to your haricots a quarter of a pound of butter or dripping, half an ounce of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper; toss all well together in your stewpan, and serve; you will thus have a most excellent dish of good food. Chopped parsley may be added. 12. HARICOTS, BRETTONNE FASHION.—Put in a saucepan two ounces of dripping and four onions sliced; fry of a brownish colour, then add your haricots, already well boiled; season with salt, pepper, and serve. Should you have a roast leg, shoulder, or loin of mutton, put them in a dish, and the mutton upon them. This is a most economical and delicious dish for a numerous family. 13. LENTILS are very plentiful and cheap, almost every- where; but I believe it is only in France that this vegetable is appreciated as it deserves. Boil a quart of lentils in a saucepan with half a gallon of water, add a very small piece of butter, half an ounce of salt, a little pepper; let simmer for two hours, or till quite tender, and finish the same as for haricots, and serve in the same manner. A piece of bacon or pickled pork may be boiled with them. Serve together, and save the broth. 14. ONION SOUP.—Very good onion soup may be made from the broth of either haricots or lentils. Cut in slices four large or six small onions, fry in dripping or butter till they brown, add a tablespoonful of flour, stir round, and pour your haricot or lentil broth over; boil up once and it is ready. Cut in thin slices half a pound of bread, place at the bottom of the tureen, pour your soup over and serve. Any stale bread may be used. It requires no more seasoning. 15. SPLIT PEA SOUP. — Cut two ounces of bacon or pickled pork in dice, put it in a stewpan with two onions cut in slices, fry together for a few minutes; put a pint of split peas and four quarts of water, simmer until in puree; add one ounce of salt, half that quantity of sugar, a little pepper, and serve. Dry mint and a few vegetables may be added, if handy.