399 THE DINNER-TABLE. the potatoes and sauce on the sideboard; I serving the soup, and Mr. B. the fish, and often a little dish of fried fish, such as smelts, &c., to remove the soups. This gives me an opportunity of seeing that my guests are properly attended to, and also leisure of taking wine with any gentleman who challenges me. During the time this course has been progressing, the cook has had time to dish up the removes nice and hot, and get all up close to the door, as I like as little time as possible to intervene in changing the dishes ; and these consist generally of variously dressed chickens, which I have before5 me, as this gives an opportunity for the gentleman on my right to display his gallantry; but, thanks to Soyer’s separator, this is an easy task: it also affords me still further leisure to pay attention to my guests. Mr. B., who is a capital carver, either has a saddle or a haunch of mutton, or a quarter of lamb before him, the rest of the dishes consisting of a tongue and entrees. I select those most easy to carve, and also easy for the cook to prepare. This is a period of dinner where a great deal depends upon the attendants • they should know almost by the look what this lady or that gentleman require and what kind of vegetables to hand them ; a first-rate butler should be able to judge by the physiognomy to whom he should offer mint sauce with the lamb, and who prefers cayenne ; on their attention and hot plates depends the success of the substantial part of the dinner. As soon as I see that all are served, and words are few in consequence of the organs which utters them being employed in another way, I give a look to the two servants which they understand, and immediately two reports are heard-they are from two bottles of champagne, opened at the same time by alort t “I ' 7 eaCh a SalV6r WHh SiX gIaSS6S 0n U J this tal«s but a short time to serve, and prepares the palate for the entrees, which generally lie Td ’’ 7 \my C°°k W0UW thiDk something was wrong if two of the dishes did not go down empty. By having the champagne thus I find it goes much further than if only one bottle was opened at the time there ng sufficient left m the bottles for a gentleman to challenge a lady to take Srzr: r „"1 hm1 *°p id botjm dita with them, and make the sweets a separate course takino- o™ t .. Jn thf°i i!"1”1-' 7' h*™s ““ ii<luor“ banded ,iund whei the swells',™ •ervice at an English dinner-table, and only a cony ^<777 be'”g °f no one neighbours. It we are more cleanly at the table than they^Ttwhlehl beLSdiz7hthhi;rr£f*tTz*Tr°UhoJ“t:° hold, rose water, and the inner one a StZtd, « t C°"’P"tm“» on salve,,, and p.„ed down each side the table, the eo™, 77h naplS