ENTREES. 258 colouring; set to simmer for twenty minutes, and serve; the addition of a few mushrooms is excellent. 493. POULTRY EN CAPILOTADE.—Put with the pieces of fowl a tablespoonful of oil, and one glass of sherry, into a pan, and proceed as above; when ready to serve, chop a few gherkins, and put in. 494. INDIAN HASH FOWL.—Make a pint of sauce (p. 81), warm, put into it your pieces of fowl, and serve with rice plain boiled. 495. FRIED FOWL.—When you have cut the pieces as before, put them into a basin with a little salt and pepper, a spoon- ful of oil, and two of vinegar, and a little chopped eschalot, stir them well in it, and let remain for half an hour, have ready a quantity of batter, and take a fork and dip each piece one alter the other into it, and then let it drop into the frying-pan, in which is sufficient hot fat to cover them; fry a nice colour, and serve in the form of a pyramid, with fried parsley over, or any sauce you like under. 496. BLANQUETTE OF FOWL.—Put half a pint of white sauce in a stewpan, with six tablespoonfuls of broth or milk, let it boil; having cut up about a pound of the remains of any kind of poultry, put it in the sauce, warm it, and add two spoonfuls of liaison to it; season with a little salt, pepper, the juice of half a lemon, stir it, and serve. Do not let it boil, or it will curdle, and be unsightly and unpalatable; a little cooked ham or tongue is good in it, also oysters, and served with biead sippets round. A little chopped parsley sprinkled over makes it look very inviting. 497. MINCED FOWL.—Cut the remains into small dice, with a little ham or tongue, add thick white sauce, season mildly; it can be served with poached eggs over. 498. SAUTE OF FOWL-—See the article Saut£:, which is applicable to all kinds of poultry; if the fowl be old, it should be previously stewed. 499 BROILED FOWL WITH SAUCE.—Have a fowl ready plucked and drawn, open the back from one end to the other with a sharp knife, having previously cut the feet oti at