231 ENTREES. to prevent their curling up whilst broiling; place them upon a gridiron over a sharp fire, seasoning with a little salt and pepper, and turning three or four times to preserve the gravy: about sis or seven minutes will be sufficient to cook them. Three or four slices will be sufficient for a corner dish; but if for a principal dish, of course more will be required. Fillet of beef, dressed as above, may be rubbed over with maitre-d’hotel or anchovy butter, and serve very hot. 429. FILLET OF BEEF SAUTE.—After having cut the fillet in slices as in the last, put two ounces of butter into a clean frying-pan, which set upon the fire, and when melted, lay in the meat, seasoned with a saltspoonlul of salt, and half that quantity of pepper to each piece; turn them over three or four times whilst cooking, and, when done, dress upon your dish, with eitner of the butters mentioned in the last spread over. 430. ANOlHER METHOD.—When the fillets are dished up, put a tablespoonful of chopped onions into the iian they were cooked in, which cook for about a minute, but not lettin^ them burn, then pour off part of the fat, if too much, and add two teaspoonfuls of flour; stir with a wooden spoon until becoming brownish, then add nearly a pint of water, a table- spoonful of vinegar, and a few drops of browning; let it boil a tew minutes, seasoning with a little pepper, salt, and sugar; when of the consistency of a thin sauce, pour over the fillets and serve. _ A few chopped pickles of any description (but not too hot) might be introduced, but then half the quantity of vinegar S?? be sufficient A spoonful of Harvey’s sauce may “be added, and a little glaze improves it. Mutton, lamb, or pork-chops, or veal-cutlets, may be dressed in a similar manner. J cooked be1?’0?0 EF;DCut a pound and a half of Ieau cooked beef into very small dice, which put upon a plate; in a stewpan put a good teaspoonful of finely-chopped onions, with firP ce °f butter of the size of a walnut, which stir over the beC°T I!shtly browned’ when stir in half a tablespoonful of flour, with which mix by degrees half a oint of bi.th (or water) to which you have added a 4 drops of bretf it thp dia fea+sp°°nfu of vine^ar; let h boil five minutes, stirrino- with a l n 6 ’ thei\thlT iD the meat’ season rather hffihly with a little pepper and salt, and, when hot, pour it into a deep