66 CULINARY CORRESPONDENCE. over, and made as comfortable in every respect as the wish o: those who pay to support them requires ? Besides, it has an effect upon after generations ; for upon the food at the period of growth depends the nature of the mind at a more advanced age, as well as the stature of the man. Do we not evince our care to objects of the brute creation, and feed, with the greatest atten- tion, the racehorse ? Compare him with others of his species not so humanely treated, and note the difference: so it is with the human race ; and I might almost say the prosperity of a country depends upon the food of its youth. You will perhaps think that I am rather sharp in my remarks, and probably longer than is required, but still it will be gratifying to both of us, should we find that these remarks prove beneficial to such establishments as above mentioned ; and it is only by giving notoriety to these important details, and being positive in exposing the truth, that we can be believed and followed, and you must not mind displeasing the few, if you are to be useful to the many. For ever, &e., Hobtense. LETTER No. IX. My Deab Hobtense,—I received your last observations, which, on first seeing, I thought too long, but after having read them over again, I am convinced that I shall not be able to shorten them ; at all events, there is a great deal of truth in them, and, as you justly say, they are the observations yf a person who has constantly studied domestic comfort and economy; I phall therefore copy them in the journal just as you sent them to me. Truly yours, Eloise. LETTER No. X. My Deab Eloise,—I am glad to hear that you will not alter any of my last remarks sent, because I assure you I wrote with a full conviction that I was right, and from facts which experience alone can engrave on the memory; but, however, we will now proceed : but I think it will be necessary to alter our original intention, namely, in order to save any confusion, to class aU the receipts for the dinner together, and thus form a large bill of fare, an follow, on a small plan, what M. Soyer, of the Reform Club, has done on a large scale, in his “Gastronomic Regenerator,” by which the most inex- perienced hands may easily provide a large or small dinner adapted for aU