266 entrees. paste-brush dipped in water, then roll out the remainder of the paste to about the size of the dish, damp the band of paste upon the dish, and lay the other piece over, make a hole with a knife at the top, press the edges evenly down with your thumbs, trim the pie round with a knife, egg over the top with a paste-brush, and ornament it with the trimmings of the paste, according to fancy; bake it rather better than an hour in a moderate oven, and serve either hot or cold. i UW 7 F,AL PIE-—Cut. about a pound and a halt ot veal into thin slices, as also a quarter of a pound of cooked ham; season the veal rather highly with white pepper and salt, with which cover the bottom of the dish, then lay over a lew slices of ham, then the remainder of the veal, finishing with the remainder of the ham, add a wineglassful of wate?, and co\er and bake as directed lor beefsteak pie: a bay-leaf will be an improvement. J 522. MUTTON PIE.—Procure the chumps of three loins of mutton, fiom which cut the meat in moderately thin slices, put a layer at the bottom of the dish, which season well with chopped parsley, eschalots, pepper, and salt; then put a layer of slices ol law potatoes, and again a layer of mutton, seasoning as before, proceeding thus to the top, which form a dome, finish- ing v ith mutton, cover with paste, and bake as directed for rumpsteak pie. 523. ANOTHER METHOD.—Cut six chops from a loin of mutton, from which trim as much of the fat as possible; season them well with salt and pepper, and lay them round in your pie-dish, the thick part uppermost; put two onions, in slices, in the centre, over which lay four middling sized potatoes, each cut in halves, pour in a wineglasslul ot ivater, cover with paste, and bake as the last. 524. LAMB PIE.—Cut a small neck of lamb into chops, which must not be too fat, season them lightly with pepper and salt, and lay them in your pie-dish, with a few new potatoes in slices, pour in a little water, then cover and bake as directed for rumpsteak pie. 525. CHICKEN PIE.—Cut up a nice plump chicken into joints, which lay upon r, dish, and season lightly with chopped parsley, white pepper, and salt, then lay the back, cut int