501 soyer’s charitable cookery-. little butter, or milk thickened with flour, or stew them with any kind of fish or meat. Mangel wurzel may be used in any of the before-named receipts, instead of the other vegetables, if cut up into small dice or grated; but if kept for a few days in the soup, is apt to discolour it. In all the foregoing receipts, a greater quantity of meat may be used by those who can afford it, as I am a great advocate that every trade should flourish and that wealth should support luxury. However great the quantity of meat that may be used; no longer time should be used in cooking it. Take the same proportion of the receipts for any larger quantity. I here intended to have given an account of my oven—the method of using it, and a variety of cheap receipts; but I find that it would make this'small pamphlet too large, so that I shall be obliged to give it in a separate form; and also, a' variety of new receipts for dressing and preparing meat, fish, &c., for the London market, and a variety of wholesome and nutritious drinks. DESCRIPTION OF THE MODEL KITCHEN. The exterior and covering is of a temporary nature, being formed of boards and canvas, enclosing a space of forty-eight feet long, and forty feet wide. The interior consists of a steam boiler, on wheels, thirteen feet long, and four feet wide, with a glaze pan over it, capable of containing three hundred gallons, and at the end an oven, to bake one hundred weight of bread at a time; and all heated by the same fire. Under the boiler is an excavation to contain coals, and round it an elevated platform to give access to the glaze-pan. At the distance of eight feet, round the boiler, are eight iron bam marie pans, with covers, six feet long, and twenty-two inches wide, on -wheels, and made double, to be boiled by steam, and contain, together, one thousand gallons. At each end, extending between the pans, are the cutting-tables —at one end the meat, and at the other the vegetables; and under which are placed wooden soaking tubs, on wheels,5 and chopping-blocks for the meat, drawers and sliding shelf. Four feet beyond these are placed a row of tables, eighteen inches