401 THE DINNER-TABLE. tion, such as bananas, sugar-cane, American lady apples, prickly pears, &c. ; these also give a subject for the gentlemen to talk about when the ladies have left, as free trade, colonial policy, &c. About half an hour after the dessert is on the table, and when I see that the conversation is becoming less general, I retire to the drawing-room ; the servants then remove the used glass and plates, and Mr. B. introduces some of his choice Claret or Burgundy in ice coolers. You know, my dear Eloise, I allow very little more than half an hour for us to talk about the last new fashions, or of Mrs. A. and B.’s cap, and the young ones about their partners at the last ball, and other nothings, when the tea and coffee are brought up on salvers; it is always made down stairs, and sent up in cups to the drawing-room, although Mr. B. had a very hand- some silver service presented to him just after we were married, for serving as an honorary secretary to some grand masonic festival, yet the milk ewer and sugar basin are all I allow in the room. This does away with the formality of the tea-table and the hissing of the tea-urn ; it allows some joung gentleman with a Byron collar and a little down under his chin to turn over the pages of a music-book for a young lady at the piano, and take his coffee at the same time; it allows my dear mamma and Mr. P. to make up their whist table, and have their tea whilst playing; or if we make up a quadrille, to have a few turns of a waltz or polka, the coffee is serving during the time ; whilst this is going on the hand of the clock advances, and half past ten soon arrives, and with it Mrs. C.’s fly ; Dr. D.’s brougham is at the door ; the party breaks up, delighted with the evening they have passed each other’s society : and this you see done with trifling management. LETTER No. XX. Dearest Eloise,—You are right in your remark, that there is a great difference as to the manner and way in which evening parties o'r soirees are given in different houses, although being frequented by the same party of circle I must say I have my own ideas on this subject, and I think the lench understand th18 matter much better than we do, and that we could not do better than imitate them. We English are a plodding, matter-of-fact people, and carry our notions into every concern in life : our dinners and. entertainments are given with an ulterior object, and with a view of what niay be gained from it, even from the charitable dinner at the London Tavern to the man who asks another to partake a crust of bread and cheese and a p nt of beer with him at a public-house. It is this feeling, together with the ostentation, which is the bane of society, by bringing together people of mcongru.ty of ideas, and destroying that free exchange of thought which constitutes the true pleasure of social reunions. We are also naturall, „ D D