2*26 ENTREES. dish, covered with a little of the stock, and place another dish of the same size over, to keep them flat, let remain until cold, when they are ready to serve in either of the following ways:—■ 413. BEEF PALATES A LA BRETONNE.—Peel and cut two large onions into slices, which put into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, stirring them over the fire until lightly fried, when add a teaspoonful of flour, which mix well in, and a gill of broth, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, add a lew drops of brown gravy or browning, No. 186, and a spoonful ol mustard; boil the 'whole, keeping it stirred until forming a thicldsh pulp; then cut the palates into square pieces, and put into it; when well hot through they are ready to serve. 414 BEEF PALATES A LTNDIENNE.—Having pre- pared the palates as in No. 412, make some curry sauce as No. 156, cut the palate into square pieces and warm m the sauce, serve with rice separate, and it is delicious. 415. BEEF PALATES A LA POULETTE.—Make a little white sauce as directed, No. 135; after having prepared the palates, cut them into square pieces, and put them into a stewpan, just covered with some of the white sauce, season with a little white pepper, salt, sugar, chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon; let them simmer about five minutes, when poiu in a liaison of one yolk of egg, mixed with two tablespooniu s of cream or milk, stir it in rather quickly, and not afterwards permitting it to boil, then turn it upon your dish, place sippets of toasted bread round, and serve: chopped parsley and a little lemon may be added. 416. BEEF PALATES A LA MAITRE-D HOTEL. Proceed as above, using seasoned melted maitre-d’hotel butter. 417 TRIPE.—Select one pound of tripe, thick, fat, and white as possible, the honeycomb part is the most delicate; cut them in pieces of half a pound each, tie them together, put into a con- venient^sized stewpan one pint of milk, one of -ter, put in tbe tripe add six middle-sized onions whole, two teaspoonfuls ot *n t, half one of pepper, let it simmer till the onions are done, and the tripe is tLiw-emly, remove the string, d.sh broth an alll m t tureen. A little nutmeg, thyme, and bay-leaf, added just be