SECOND COURSE. 297 638. "WILD GEESE, the common gray leg (l’Oie Sauvage). —Bean Goose ; Barnacle Treegoose or Clakis (la Bernaele); Brent Goose (ie Cravant); Egyptian Goose, Ganger, or Gambo, or Spur-winged (l’Oie d’Egypte); Red-breasted Goosiander, or Siberian Goose; White-fronted or Laughing Goose (l'Oie Rieuse.)—These birds, although being of the same species, differ very widely in flavour, depending much upon the place they last fed on pre- vious to being killed ; for although we have Barnacles in various parts of the kingdom, none are so fine as those taken at Wexford and Tralee in Ireland. The Brent and Whitefronted are by far the best eating, although at times some of the common gray jay are found very fine. They should be dressed like wild duck, only rubbing the breast well with a lemon, and sprinkle half a teaspoonful of red pepper over previous to spitting. 639. GANNET, GAN, or SOLAN GOOSE (le Fou de Bassan).—This is a very different bird from the other wild geese. The best part to eat is the breast, which may be cut away after it has been plucked, for the feathers are valuable, and then salted for six hours, and dried or smoked ; place them in a dry place and they will keep for some months. They should be cooked as follows : Soak them in water twenty-four hours, having added a tea- spoonful of culinary alkali, rub the breast with oil, cover with oiled paper the same as for “ Cutlets en papillotebroil gently for full thirty minutes, and serve in the paper or without with orange sauce. The young ones can be roasted whole, like wild ducks. 640. TERNES, OR SEA-SWALLOWS, are good eating in autumn, dressed like the widgeon. These birds, in some places, are called Kipps, and their eggs are sold as plovers’. 641. GULLS, GREBES, DIVERS of all kinds, including the Dobchicks, are only fit to make into soups, although I am of opinion that if the young gull was taken and iattened for table, it would make a delicious bird. 642. COOT, THE GREAT, (le grande Foidque, or, la Macroiile.)— Coot, common bald, (la Foulque, or Morrelle.— lhis bird, if properly dressed, is not so bad as may be supposed I hey should be skinned, trussed, and well soaked in severai waters for twenty-four hours, and then filled with a <r0ose stuffing, and allowed to remain forty-eight hours; then cover its breast with slices of fat bacon, and roast it gently : serve with a fumet de gibier, or make it into pies, puddings, or soup.