NEW COTTAGE RECEIPTS. 471 a kind of rim, which mark with the back of a knife, peel six good apples, cut in quarters, make six deep incisions an inch each, without cutting them through, place them respectively round on your paste, the large part upwards, when fill very closely with one single row, only cover over with two ounces pounded sugar, in which you have put a little powdered cinna- mon, break ten pieces of hard butter, which place over, and then bake in any shape, and serve hot or cold; brown sugar may be used. Another Way.—Boil half an ounce of ground rice in half pint of milk, with little lemon peel, add to it one ounce of butter, two of sugar, two eggs previously beaten, mix well and pour over your apples, which is then prepared as above, and bake; the rim must be made about half-inch thick. 55. PEARS WITH RICE.—Boil quarter pound of rice in milk, add a little salt butter, a small piece of cinnamon or lemon peel; simmer gently till tender; add two ounces of sugar and an egg; stir quick. Peel and cut in dice six eating pears; put them in a stewpan with one ounce of sugar, a little water, boiled a few minutes till forming a syrup; put a layer of rice on a dish half-inch thick, then a layer of pears, rice, and pears again, throw sugar over, bake for ten minutes; give nice colour with a salamander. Semolina, sago, or tapioca, may be used instead of rice; also, to flavour, orange and lemon peel may be used. 56. APPLES WITH RICE.—Prepare rice as above; peel six apples in slices across, quarter-inch thick, put butter in clean fryingpan, sprinkle sugar over that; place your sliced apples over it (having taken the core out), sugar over again; set on the fire for a few minutes, turn them when done. Put rice and apple as above; they are to be kept very white. 57. When the apples (say twelve) are done, dish them up round, symmetrically, one-half over the other; put two table spoonfuls of currant jelly in the pan with a glass of port wine, sherry, or brandy; warm well and throw over. 58. Take a penny fresh loaf, cut it in thin slices, cover over with sugar; bake them in the oven till crisp; add one slice between each slice of apples, it will be a change; any other jam will do the same. The slices may be toasted.