VEGETABLES. ,334 one minute, put it in a pan, with four spoonfuls of white sauce, add half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, a little cayenne; place the macaroni over the fire; when boiling, add two ounces each of grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese, toss round and round until well mixed, then serve with a gill of very strong gravy around it. 740. MACARONI ATJ GRATIN.—Proceed the same as above; but after you have put the macaroni on the dish, omit the gravy, and cover it slightly with bread-crumbs, and about the same quantity of Parmesan cheese grated, a little butter, and then put in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour; if not hot enough, pass the salamander over it, and serve very hot. 741. MACARONI, NEAPOLITAN WAY.—Boil half a pound of the best quality of macaroni for half an hour, as at No. 738; when tender, lay one quarter of it on the dish you intend to serve; have ready two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, which you divide into four parts to lay over each layer of macaroni, then put over it two tablespoonfuls of strong gravy, made of half glaze and consomme, put the dish in the oven for ten minutes, and serve very hot. 742. THE REAL ITALIAN METHOD {called, a VEstou- fade).—Boil and proceed as before, but make the gravy as follows, and use it instead of the preceding. Take two pounds of rump of beef larded through, put in a small stewpan, with one quarter of a pound of butter, fry gently for one hour, turning almost continually; when forming a glaze, add half a pint of broth, let simmer another hour, take the fat off, and use that gravy instead of that above described; a little tomato may be introduced if handy; serve the beef at the same time in a sepa- rate dish. 743. TO BOIL RICE.—Wash well in two separate waters a pound of the best Carolina rice, then have two quarts of water boiling in a stewpan, into which throw your rice, boil it until three parts done, then drain it on a sieve; butter the interior of a stewpan, in which put your rice, place the lid on tight, and put it in a warm oven upon a trivet, until the rice is perfectly tender, or by the side of the fire; serve it separate with curry, or any other dish where required. Prepared thus, every grain will be separate and quite white.