DESSERT. 388 and being all that are required for the garnishing of dishes for the second course , many other fruits may, however, be made into marmalades and jellies by following these few simple directions. SALADS OF VARIOUS FRUITS. You will perceive, my dear Eloise, that there is no end to the variation of dishing fruits for desserts ; I send the following as being more simple than any, and within the reach of almost every individual. 924. SALAD OF ORANGES.—Select four good oranges, the thinnest rind ones are preferable; cut them crosswise into slices double the thickness of a crown-piece, dress them round upon your dish, one piece resting half-way upon the other, shake one ounce of sifted sugar over, pour over a good tablespoonful of brandy, and it is ready; to serve it out, put two pieces upon the plate of each guest, with a spoonful of the syrup. Slices of red Malta oranges, dressed alternately with the other, have a pleasing effect. Any kind of liquor may be used, as also might whisky, rum, or that white cream or blue devil commonly called g—; dear me, I quite forget the name! 925. SALAD OF STRAWBERRIES.—Pick the stalks from a pottle of very fine strawberries, which put into a basin with half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, two glasses of brandy, and an ounce of sifted sugar, toss them lightly over, and dress them in pyramid upon your dish, pouring the syrup over; these should only be dressed a few minutes before serving; the brandy might be omitted. If handy, a glass of maraschino, substituted for brandy, makes them delicious. The small wild strawberry is the best for this dish. 926. SALAD OF PEACHES.—Procure four ripe peaches, winch peel and cut into quarters; put them into a basin with two ounces of sugar and a glass of sherry, toss them lightly over, dress upon your dish, and serve. Apricots, greengages, and other plums, are dressed in salads in the same manner, leaving their skins on. 927. SALAD OF CURRANTS AND RASPBERRIES. -—Put an equal quantity of each, making rather more than a pint, into a basin, with two ounces of powdered sugar-candy, and a little powdered cinnamon, toss them over lightly, and they are ready to serve.