ENTREES. 285 eschalots, a little salt, pepper, and cayenne, boil a few minutes, add the juice of a lemon, and two ounces of fresh butter, sauce over, and serve. Widgeons are hashed the same as wild duck. 5S4. TEAL, A NEW METHOD.—Procure four, draw them; then put half a pound of butter upon a plate, with a little pepper, grated nutmeg, chopped parsley, a spoonful of grated crust of bread, the juice of a lemon, and the liver of the teal; mix well together, and with it fill the interior of the teal; cover them with slices of lemon, over which fold thin slices of bacon, and envelope them in paper, roast twenty minutes before a sharp fire; take off the paper, brown the bacon, dress them upon a slice of thick toast, letting the butter from the teal run over it, and serve very hot. i 585. TEAL A LA SANS FACON.—Roast four teal quite plain, prepare a quarter of a pound of butter as above, with the omission of the livers, which place in a stewpan over the fire, stirring quickly, until forming a kind of sauce; add some fillets from the pulp of a lemon, sauce over, and serve. The remains of teal also make excellent hash. 586. LARKS A LA MINUTE.—Proceed as directed for snipes a la minute, previously stuffing them with their livers as directed for widgeons, adding a few raw mushrooms at the com- mencement; but do not let them stew too quickly, or the bottom will brown, and give a bad flavour to the sauce; seven minutes are quite sufficient to stew them. 587. LARK PIE.—Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with thin slices of beef and fat bacon, over which lay ten or twelve larks previously rolled in flour, stuffed as above, season with a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, one of chopped parsley, and one of chopped eschalot, lay a bay-leaf over, add a gill of broth, and cover with three-quarters of a pound of half-puff paste, bake one hour in a moderate oven, shake well to make the gravy in the pie form a kind of sauce, and serve quite hot. 588. JUGGED IIARE.—Put a quarter of a pound of butter, with a pound of bacon cut into dice, and the hare cut into pieces, in a stewpan; set upon a moderate lire until the pieces of hare are becoming firm, when add six ounces of flour, mix well, and moisten with sufficient water to cover it; add two glasses of any