FISH. 14G clear fat melted in a basin, into -which break the yolk of two eggs, with which rub the smelts over with a brush, dip them in bread-crumbs, fry in very hot lard, dress them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve with shrimp sauce in a boat. White Bait.—This is a fish which belongs especially to London; although it is obtainable in other rivers in Great Britain and the Continent; yet it is not sought for ; great difference of opinion exists amongst naturalists as to what fish this is the young of; in my humble opinion, I think it is a species ■distinct of itself, having a life of short duration. It is caught only in brackish water, floating up and down the river, according to the tide,—in very dry summers as high up as Greenwich, and in very wet as low as Gravesend. They spawn in winter, and make their appearance, about one inch in length, early in March. They should be cooked as follows : 256. WHITE BAIT.—Put them in a cloth, which shake gently so as to dry them a little ; then place them in some very fine bread-crumbs and flour mixed; toss them lightly with the hands, on a dish, to detach them from each other, take them out immediately, put them in a wire basket, and fry them in hot lard; one minute will cook them; turn them out on a cloth, sprinkle a little salt over, and serve very hot. Should you not hc^c a wire basket, sprinkle your white bait into the pan, and as soon as they rise take them out with a slice. Turtle.—It is unnecessary to state that, for many years past, turtle has been esteemed the greatest luxury which has been placed upon our tables. It was introduced into this country in the early part of the last century, and then only at the tables of the large West Indian proprietors, from whom it progressed to those of the city companies. During the time of the South Sea bubble, when the female aristocracy partook of the prevalent feature, and flocked into the courts and alleys surrounding the Exchange, turtle-soup was in the height of fashion, the cost being one guinea per plate. The turtle used in cooking is that known by the name of green turtle: and the finest are found in the small islands and keys in the Bahamas, which