76 CONDIMENTS. I doubt if pepper was known to tbe Romans. If so, it would have been known in Egypt, where we find no trace of it, although some authors have considered it as the ammonium of the ancients. ALLSPICE, or, as it was formerly called, Pimenta, is another of those productions of those climes near the Equator, which has come so much into use into the habits of Europeans. It is the fruit of the pimento. vulgaris. That which is the freshest is the best; as the aromatic oil which it contains is not dissipated by keeping. The essential oil which it contains can be used in very small quantities in cookery, but should not be subjected to long boiling, or it would lose its flavour. GINGER is the root of a plant, a native of the East Indies and Brazils. It has also become naturalized in the West India Islands. The plant grows in moist places, and is of a reed-like form, bearing a yellow flower. The root, when fresh, should be of a light green, solid and heavy. A spongy or woolly root should be avoided. The virtues of ginger chiefly consist in a volatile oil which it possesses. This is best obtained by bruising the root, and making an infusion in spirits of wine or boiling water in a closed bottle ; or, if thinly sliced and infused in vinegar, is pleasant in a salad. The way in which it is usually employed in cookery is by having the root desiccated by the heat of the sun until perfectly dry and hard, and then powdered till its aromatic oil is lost. It should be more often used in cookery than what it is. In 1845-6, those pioneers of colonial produce, Messrs Keeling, had large importations of the fresh root, but not being appreciated, it has ceased. It should be used as a condiment as well as for dessert. CLOVES are the buds of a flower, not arrived at maturity, of an East Indian tree, called caryophillus aromatic us. This, in common with many other buds of flowers of various kinds, contains a large quantity of essential oil. It has a very pungent, aromatic smell. Its nature is stimulating. It should not be boiled too long, or otherwise its flavour is lost in evaporation. NUTMEG is the interior of a fruit belonging to a tree, a native of the Islands of the Eastern Archipelago, called Banda, and known in botany as the myristica moschata. It is strongly aromatic, and very volatile, and con- sidered agreeable. It is used in powder, and not subjected to much heat, which would cause it to lose its qualities, which are heating and slightly irritating, and facilitate the digestion ; but should be used moderately, particularly b}r those whose nerves are not over strong.