249 ENTREES. spoonfuls of cream when very hot, pour over, and serve with fried potatoes in the middle. 466. CUTLETS, PLAINER WAY.—Cut them from the neck, beat them down roughly without trimming, put them on the gridiron, when warm through, add salt, pepper, and very fine chopped onions, turn several times; they will take about ten minutes broiling; dish very hot, and serve. They may also be served on very white mashed potatoes. 467. SHEEP’S TONGUE DEMI-GLAZE.—For one dish, take six, put them in water to disgorge, then dry them, put them in a stevvpan with two onions, half a large carrot, a bouquet of two bay-leaves, one sprig of thyme, a quart of broth if handy, or water, half a spoonful of salt, put them on to boil, and simmer for two hours till done; try if tender with a pointed knife, if so take them out, skim them, trim out all the roots, cut the tongue in two, lengthwise, giving it a little the shape of cutlets, skim the fat from the stock, reduce the whole or part to a demi-glaze, put your pieces on a dish; when ready to serve, make a thin roll of mashed potatoes, and dish them round it, add a little sugar to the demi-glaze, and a small piece of butter, stir round till melted, add the juice of half a lemon, pour boiling hot over the tongue, the sauce ought to adhere thickly to the back of the spoon. Observe, dear, bow cheaply this dish may be procured, and I assure you it is very excellent; I have tried it with almost all the sauces I have described tor cutlets and have found it good with all; they are also very good en papillate, like veal cutlets. J h 468. SHEEP’S HEARTS.—Proceed exactly as with the call s heart, only diminish the time of cooking in proportion to the size; about thirty minutes will be sufficient; serve with any kind of sharp sauce or any ragout of vegetables. 469. MINCE LAMB WITH REMAINS.—(See Veal.) Serve with poached eggs over. REMAINS OF ROAST OR BOILED LAMB, ll hi REAS. Cut up about two pounds, bones included, in. rather small pieces, put into a convenient sized stewpan, add to it two teaspoonfuls of flour, one of chopped onions, one of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, a pint of water, stir gently until near boiling, add one bay-leaf, and one pint of very green peas