83 CONDIMENTS. ANGlSCA, a condiment much used in the confectionery department of the kitchen; it is the stalk of a plant like celery, which grows in our gardens, and is also found wild. When gathered, it is dried, preserved, and candied. Rouen, in France, is very celebrated for it. YANNILLA is used chiefly to impart flavour to various articles in con- fectionery ; it possesses also a very beautiful smell, which has caused it to be used in scenting different perfumes, and thus diminished its use in the kitchen. It is the produce of a climbing tree like ivy, having a large leaf and black flower, which leaves a pcd containing black peas ; the form of the pod is like a scimitar, from which it takes its name, being in Spanish mrgarila. When covered with tin-foil, and kept in a moist place, it will become covered with flakes of silver. It denotes the best quality, and is fit for use; it will do to be infused several times. SUGAR is the concentrated juice of a plant which grows in hot climates, and is also to be obtained from other trees and vegetables, especially from beet-root. It is used very extensively in cookery, it imparting a mellow flavour to all dishes; it is of an antiseptic nature, and ought to be em- ployed more abundantly in preserving of animal substances than what it is. This condiment was unknown to the ancients, who employed honey in place of it. The way it is used in the kitchen is explained in the receipts. ORANGE is the fruit the produce of a tree originally a native of Cliina, but now grown extensively in all warm climates. The juice of this fruit is a sweet acid, differing greatly in flavour to the lemon ; its peel is of use in cookery, and the juice in many dishes of a sweet character for dessert. The Seville and Malta oranges are a variety of this fruit. ORANGE-FLOWER, a distillation from the flower, is used a great deal in cookery. VERJUICE is the juice of a grape of that name, and of other unripe ones, and on the continent was used to a great extent, until the introduction of the lemon. The grape is gathered unripe, and pressed, and allowed to ferment, and then put into large vats to mature ; the older it is, the better the flavour. In England, it has been made from a species of crab-apple, and becomes that known in commerce as malic acid. It enters into the com- position of several of the sauces in use at the present day; if pure, it may be preferable for several dishes to vinegar, G 2