SAUCES. 89 it is by the arrangement of the notes that harmony is produced, so should the ingredients in the sauce be so nicely blended, and that delightful concord should exist, which would equally delight the palate, as a masterpiece of a Mozart or a Rossini should delight the ear; but which, if badly executed, tantalize those nervous organs, affect the whole system, and prove a nuisance instead of a pleasure. I will therefore be very precise in describing the two, in order that, when you prepare them, you will not cause your guests to make grimaces at each other, whilst partaking of them at your festive board, aa the present age is a little more refined than at the time of Dr. Johnson, and we are often obliged to swallow that we do not like. It is reported of him, that being at a ceremonious dinner-party, and indulging in his usual flow of wit, he unconsciously partook of a spoonful of very hot soup, which he immediately returned to the plate he had taken it from ; and observing the astonishment of some of his neighbours, he very coolly remarked, “ A fool would have burnt his mouth.” When we are at home alone, I very seldom trouble myself by making white or brown sauce, which I can avoid by selecting simplified dishes, which easily produce their own sauce whilst cooking them. But when I expect a little company, the first order I give my cook is to make half of the quantity of the following receipts for white and brown sauces, which ought to be kept hot in a bain-marie pan, previous to the dinner. No doubt the word bain-marie is new to you, I will therefore tell you what it is. It consists of a pan containing water to the depth of about four inches, generally placed at the side of the stove, in which are placed the saucepans and stewpans, in order that their contents may be kept hot, without injuring the flavour by over heating, and no kitchen from which a good dinner is expected to be sent should be without it. 135. WHITE SAUCE.—Cut and chop a knuckle of \eal, weighing about four pounds, into large dice; also half a pound of lean bacon; butter the bottom of a large stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, add two onions, a small carrot, a turnip, three cloves, half a blade of mace, a bouquet of a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and six of parsley, add a gill of water, place over a sharp fire, stirring round occasionally, until the bottom of the stew- pan is covered with whitish glaze, then fill up with three