SECOND COURSE. 320 a small napkin, with fried parsley over it if handy. If no fat to fry in, put .a little butter in a tart dish or a plate, put them in the oven lor ten minutes, and witli a red-hot shovel passed over, give them a nice colour, and serve in a dish. They may be also dipped one after the other in a batter made as for apple fritters (No. /86), fried in hot fat; if oysters are done in batter well made, they will eat very crisp. 691. SHRIMI S. Of these there are several varieties; of those known in London, we have the red shrimp, caught in the rivers Thames and Med- way, and the brown or Lynn shrimp ; a diversity of opinion exists amongst epicures of this little animal which is the best; but in my opinion a great deal depends on the manner of boiling, and their freshness. The following is the plan I prefer: to one gallon of water put two ounces of salt, one sprig of lemon thyme, and one of mint, a bay leaf, and let it boil; when boiling hard, put one quart of shrimps into an open wire or wicker basket with a handle, and place it in the water; the time they take to boil depends on the size of the fish, but may be known by their changing colour; be particular not to boil them too much, or they will be tasteless and indigestible. 692. TO PICK SHRIMPS.—Although so many millions of these little sand-hoppers are continually being eaten, yet there are very few whose body is removed from their shell in the proper way. The head and part of the body should be taken up by the thumb and finger of the right hand, and with the left hand take gently hold of three joints of the tail, bend it back a little, and remove the shell of the tail, which will come off at the third joint; then lay hold of the body, which will come out easily of the remainder of the shell. Most persons lay hold of the head and tail only, in consequence they become divided, and then they have to remove the shell in au awkward manner; but if in any way stale, they will never shell easy. 693. FORCEMEATS OF FISH.—These are much in use in France and other Catholic countries, especially in Lent; they are a very excellent garnish for entrees of fish, and may be made of the flesh of almost all kinds of fish, more particularly the pike, salmon, trout, sole, haddock, and the whiting, which last is the most delicate. 694. FORCEMEAT OF WHITINGS.—Take the fillets of three whitings, take off all the skin, and pound them well, then