272 ENTREES. pudding with, or if not, in boiling water; an hour and a quarter would be sufficient to cook it; when done, untie the cloth, turn the pudding over upon your dish, and serve very hot. 541. YORKSHIRE PUDDING.—Put six tablespoonfuls of flour into a basin, with six eggs, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pint of milk, mix well together with a wooden spoon, adding the remaining three-quarters of a pint of milk by degrees; you have previously set a shallow tin dish under a piece of roasting beef before the fire; an hour before serving pour in the batter, leaving it under the meat until quite set and rather browned upon the top, when turn the pudding over upon the dish you intend serving it upon, and again place it before the fire until the other side is rather browned, when it is ready to serve with the meat. This pudding is very excellent baked under a small piece of beef of about five or six pounds. It i3 also frequently baked beneath a shoulder of mutton; and sometimes in an oven separate, if the fire is not large enough, (with a few spoonfuls of gravy added). 542. TOAD IN A HOLE.—Make a batter as directed for the Yorkshire pudding, but with the addition of a spoonful more flour and six ounces of chopped beef suet; butter a leather deep baking-dish, into which pour the batter, lay a solid piece of lean gravy°beef about three pounds, in the centre, or a beef skirt, and bake it an hour and a half in a hot oven. Another method is to cut up about three pounds of rumpsteaks into about six pieces, and putting them in the batter at various distances apart, but the former method is most common. Any remains of cooked beef, veal, mutton, pork, loasted or boiled, salt or fresh, or game and fowl, cut in pieces, and sea- soned to taste, may be used in this dish, by adding it to the batter when in the dish. 543. FISH PUDDING.—Cut a slice of salmon half an inch thick and weighing about one pound; remove the skin and bone, mix a saltspoonful of salt, half one ol pepper, one ol finely chopped onions and parsley, and a spoonful ol flour in a plate, and rub the fish with it; make half a pound ot flour into paste, roll it half an inch thick, place a pudding-cloth m a middle size basin, flour the cloth, lay the paste in it, place in the salmon with a little water and white wine, and a bay-leaf, bring the paste