880 DESSERT. 898. CHOCOLATE ICEING FOR CAKES is made similar to the last, but when finished have ready a piece of the common chocolate, which melt in a stewpan over the fire, keep- ing it stirred; when quite melted stir some of it in with the iceing until you have obtained the colour required, moistening the iceing with a little more white of egg, and use where directed. 899. SUGAR IN GRAINS is made by pounding a quantity of sugar in a mortar, and sifting off all the fine through a hair sieve, then again what remains in the sieve put into a rather coarse wire sieve, and that which passes through is what is meant by the above term. 900. HOW TO GIVE COLOUR TO SUGAR.—Prepare about half a pound of the sugar as in the last, which put upon a baking-sheet; have a spoonful of the essence of spinach, which stir in with the sugar until every grain is strained, then put them in a warmish place to dry, but not too hot: to colour them red, use a little prepared cochineal or liquid carmine, instead of the spinach, and proceed exactly the same: sugar may be mr.de of other colours by the use of indigo, rouge, saffron, &c.; but not being partial to such a variety of colouring, I have merely given the red and the green, which, with the white, I consider to be sufficient for any of the purposes for which they are used. 901. SUGAR OF VANILLA.—Chop a stick of well-frosted vanilla very small, and put it into a mortar, with half a pound of lump sugar, pound the whole well together in a mortar, sift through a hair sieve, and put by in a bottle or jar, corking it up tight, and using where required. 902. SUGAR OF LEMON.—Rub the rind of some fresh lemons upon a large piece of sugar, and as it discolours the part upon which it is rubbed scrape it off with a knife; when you have obtained a sufficient quantity, dry a little in the screen, and bottle for use where required. Orange sugar may be made in the same manner, substituting very red oranges for the lemons. 903. PIOW TO MAKE CLEAR SUGAR.—Break three pounds of fine white sugar, the hardest and closest grained is the best, put it into a sugar-pan, with three pints of clear spring water, set over a sharp fire, and when beginning to boil place it at the corner to simmer, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, skim well and reduce to two thirds, it is then ready to use for jellies.