mm mmWILLIAM BOWMAN, set. 48. From a Photograph by Hollyer, Pembroke Square, Kensington, of the Painting by G. F. Watts, R.A. Exhibited at the Royal Academy, /S6j.THE COLLECTED PAPERS OF Sir W. BOWMAN, Bam, F.K.S. Edited for the Committee of the "Bowman Testimonial Fund" BY J. BURDON-SANDERSON, M.D., F.R.S., AND J. W. HULKE, F.R.S. I 1ST X "W O VOLUMES. VOL. I, Milium: HAEEISON AND SONS, ST. MABTIN'S LANE, Printers in Ordinary to Her Majesty. 1892.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b21285822GENERAL PREFACE. The Bowman Testimonial Fund was inaugurated in July, 1888, at a meeting held at Sir George Johnson's house. Its design was to make to Sir William Bowman some acknowledgment of the appreciation in which he was held on account of his high character and professional and scientific attainments. This, it was suggested, should take the form of a portrait of himself, and also, possibly, a reprint of his publications. His acceptance of this proposal having been asked and received by a deputation consisting of Sir George Johnson, Mr. J. W. Hulke, and Professor Burdon-Sanderson, a Provisional Committee was constituted by whose invitation the subjoined list of the Committee of the Bowman Testimonial Fund, consisting of 446 members, was formed. It was thought more advantageous that the practical carrying out of the scheme should be relegated to a small sub-committee, which was accordingly forthwith appointed. It consists of Mr. Power and Professor Klein, with Sir George Johnson as treasurer, and Messrs. Brailey and Jessop as secretaries. The services of Mr. Ouless, E.A., were secured for the portrait, which was duly exhibited to subscribers in 1889 in the Library of King's College, London, and afterwards at the Eoyal Academy in the summer of the same year. By the generosity of Lady Bowman each subscriber has received an engraving of the portrait, executed by Mr. J. Cother Webb.IV GENERAL PREFACE. The publication of the present volumes completes the task of the Committee. Their interest and value have been added to by the active interest taken in them by Sir William Bowman till nearly the very day of his death. Every proof sheet has been revised by his own hand and frequent notes appended. The Committee believe that these volumes will furnish a most valuable con- tribution to the modern history of Science, especially in the departments of Physiology and Ophthalmology. They have to congratulate the subscribers on the acquisition of Professor Buedon-Sandeeson and Mr. Hulke as editors. The accounts were audited on December 11th, 1890, by Professor Michael Fostee, F.E.S. After the payment of all expenses of the portrait a balance of one hundred and ninety-eight pounds remains, which has been utilised in diminishing the cost of the present volumes to subscribers. W. A. BEAILEY"! Hon gecs> tQ the Committee> W. H. JESSOP JBOWMAN TESTIMONIAL FUND LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. September, 1892. Dr. Abadie, Paris, France. Dr. J. Abercrombie, London. Sir Henry W. Acland, Bart., K.C.B., F.R.S., Oxford. Arthnr C. Ainger, Esq., Eton College. The late Prof. Sir Wm. Aitkeu, M.D., F.R.S., Netley. Sir Rutherford Alcock, K.C.B., London. Lady Alcock. Dr. C. H. Allfrey, St. Mary Cray. Prof. G. J. Allman, F.R.S., Ardmore, Parkstone, Poole. Dr. James Anderson, London. Dr. James Andrew, London. T. Brittin Archer, Esq., London. The late Dr. T. R. Armitage, London. Rt. Hon. Lord Armstrong, C.B., F.R.S., New- castle-on-Tyne. G. W. Armstong, Esq., Greenwich. Dr. G. F. Atchley, Bristol. Charles Bader, Esq., London. Dr. M. Baines, London. Alfred Baker, F.R.C.S., Birmingham. James Bankart, F.R.C.S., Exeter. Arthur E. J. Barker, F.R.C.S., London. The late John J. Bartrum, F.R.C.S., Bath. Dr. Charlton Bastian, F.R.S., London. The late Prof. Otto Becker, Heidelberg, Ger- many. Dr. Lionel Beale, F.R.S., London. Dr. C. E. Beevor, London. George Wm. Bell, Esq., London. Archibald Bence Jones, Esq., London. The late Sir James Risdon Bennett, M.D., F.R.S., London. Prof. Bentley, London. Dr. A. H. Benson, Dublin. The late Px'of Albert Bernays, London. Prof. Bernstein, Halle, Germany. Dr. George A. Berry, Edinburgh. T. H. Bickerton, Esq., Liverpool. Prof. Du Bois-Reymond, F.R.S., Berlin, Ger- many. Prof, the Rev. T. G. Bonney, F.R.S., London. Dr. M. Bouvin, The Hague, Holland. Prof. Bowditch, Boston, U.S.A. Sir Frederick Bramwell, Bart., D.C.L., F.R.S., London. Dr. Bribosia, Namur, Belgium. Surgeon-Major E. F. Drake-Brockman, F.R.C.S., Madras. Bernard E. Brodhurst, F.R.C.S., London.vi LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. Dr. A. Bronner, Bradford, Yorkshire. Dr. Charles Gage-Brown, London. Prof. Alex. Crura Brown, D.Sc, F.R.S., Edin- burgh. Dr. C. E. Brown Sequard, F.R.S., Paris, France. Edgar Browne, F.R.C.S. Ed., Liverpool. Dr. Henry Browne, Heaton Mersey, Manchester. Rev. Robert H. Nisbett Browne, M.A., London. Dr. T. Lauder Brunton, F.R.S., London. The late John Bubb, Esq., Cheltenham. Dr. Ole Bull, Christiania, Norway. The late C. J. Bunyon, Esq., London. Prof. Businelli, Rome, Italy. Henry T. Butlin, F.R.C.S., London. Dr. Thomas Buzzard, London. W. Cadge, F.R.C.S., Norwich. Hon. Dudley Campbell, London. Albert Carless, M.B., London. H. Bonham Carter, Esq., London. Mrs. H. Bonham Carter. Duke Charles Theodore of Bavaria, M.D. Prof. Theodore Cash, F.R.S., Aberdeen. Inglis Chamberlain, Esq., Stow-on-the-Wold. Dr. Charcot, Paris, France. Prof. Cbauveau, F.R.S., Paris, France. The late Rev. E. Cheere, M.A., Papworth, Cambs. The late Miss Cheere. Dr. I. D. Chepmell, London. Edwin Chesshire, F.R.C.S., Birmingham. Dr. Chisolm, Baltimore, U.S.A. W. H. M. Christie, F.R.S., Astronomer Royal, Greenwich. Sir Andrew Clark, Bart., M.D., F.R.S., President Royal College of Physicians, London. F. Le Gros Clark, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., Sevenoaks. J. Fenn Clark, Esq., Leamington. W. Falconer Clark, Esq., Dorking. Dr. Ernest Clarke, London. W. Bruce Clarke, F.R.C.S., London. The late Sir Oscar Clayton, F.R.C.S., London. The late Prof. Coccius, Leipsic, Germany. Surgeon-General Robert Cockburn, London. John Colebrook, Esq., London. John Coles, Esq., London. E. Treacher Collins, F.R.C.S., London. Dr. John Cook, London. John Couper, F.R.C.S., London. J. Gordon Crawford, Esq., London. G. Anderson Critchett, F.R.C.S. Ed., London. William Crookes, F.R.S., London. Dr. Edgar Crookshank, London. F. Richardson Cross, F.R.C.S., Bristol. A. E. Cnmberbatch, F.R.C.S., London. .1. W. Cunningham, Esq., King's College, London. Dr. Curnow, London. Dr. J. McKenzie Davidson, Aberdeen. Dr. Maurice Davis, London. Clinton Dent, F.R.C.S., London. Rt. Hon. the Earl of Derby, E.G., F.R.S. Dr. Hasket Derby, Boston, U.S.A. Prof. James Dewar, F.R.S., Royal Institution, London. W. H. Domville, Esq., London. The late Prof. Donders, F.R.S., Utrecht, Hol- land. Prof. Dor, Lyons, France. Sir Henry Doulton, London. Prof. Doyer, Leyden, Holland. R. W. Doyne, Esq., Oxford. G. H. Drew, Esq., London. Sir Dyce Duckworth, M.D., London. The late Dr. Matthews Duncan, LL.D., F.R.S., London. Henry Eales, Esq., Birmingham. John Earle, Esq., Manchester. Walter Edmunds, M.D., F.R.C.S., London. Prof. Engelmann, Utrecht, Holland. J. E. Erichsen, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., London. Sir John Evans, K.C.B., LL.D., D.C.L., Treasurer Royal Society, London. Miss Ewart, Ewhurst, Surrey. Prof. Ewart, D.C.L., LL.D., Edinburgh. Prof. Exner, Vienna, Austria. Sir Joseph Fayrer, K.C.S.I., F.R.S., London. Dr. Henry Fearnside, London. Dr. Freeland Fergus, Glasgow. H. L. Ferguson, Esq., Dunedin, New Zealand. Dr. David Ferrier, LL.D., F.R.S., London. Prof. Fick, Wurzburg, Germany. Dr. C. E. Fitzgerald, Dublin. Sir William Flower, K.C.B., F.R.S., Natural History Museum, London. Prof. Michael Foster, F.R.S., Secretary Royal Society. Dr. L. Webster Fox, Philadelphia, U.S.A. Prof. Francois Franck, Paris, France.vii LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. Dr. Philip Frank, Cannes, France. Dr. J. Mill Frodsham, London. W. Adams Frost, F.R.C.S., London. Rt. Hon. Lord Justice Sir Edward Fry, F.R.S. Prof. Fuchs, Vienna, Austria. Francis Galton, M.A., F.R.S., London. Dr. Galezowski, Paris, France. Sir Alfred B. Garrod, M.D., F.R.S., London. Dr. W. H. Gaskell, F.R.S., Cambridge. John P. Gassiot, Esq., Carshalton, Surrey. Prof. Gayet, Lyons, France. Dr. J. H. Gladstone, F.R.S. Dr. 0. E. Glascott, Manchester. Miss Goldhawk, Hazel Hall, Shiere, Surrey. Prof. Goltz, Strasburg, Germany. Prof. Alfred Graefe, Halle, Germany. Dr. John Graham, Bryckden, Waldron, Sussex. Dr. John Green, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A. Prof. W. S. Greenfield, M.D., Edinburgh. Henry Greenway, Esq., Plymouth. Dr. Hill Griffith, Manchester. Rt. Hon. Lord Grimthorpe, LL.D., Q.C. The Hon. Sir W. R, Grove, D.C.L., LL.D, F.R.S. The late Robert S. Grubbe, C.E., London. E. W. Grubbe, C.E., London. Dr. Karl Grossman, Liverpool. Prof. Griinhagen, Konigsberg, Germany. Prof. Hansen Grut, Copenhagen, Denmark. Prof. Griitzner, Tubingen, Germany. The late Sir William Gull, Bart., M.D., F.R.S., London. R. Marcus Gunn, F.R.C.S., London. Prof. Gunning, Amsterdam, Holland. F. Seymour Haden, F.R.C.S., London. Dr. W. H. Hall, Southampton. Prof. W. D. Halliburton, F.R.S., London. Robert Hannah, Esq., London. Dr. George Harley, F.R.S., London. Dr. R. N. Hartley, Leeds. The late C. M. Harris, F.R.C.S., Wotton-under- Edge. Gustavus Hartridge, F.R.C.S., London. Mrs. Haydock, Southport, Lancashire. E. C. Healey, Esq., Wyphurst, Surrey. Prof. Heidenhain, Breslau, Germany. Prof. H. von Helmholtz, F.R.S., Berlin, Gennany. Dr. W. C. Henry, F.R.S., Haffield, near Ledbury. Prof. Hensen, Kiel, Germany. Dr. Philip Hensley, London. Prof. Hermann, Konigsberg, Germany. Dr. John Hern, Darlington. Dr. Hess, Mainz, Germany. H. Bendelack Hewetson, Esq., Leeds. The late Sir Prescott G. Hewett, Bart., F.R.S. James Heywood, M.A., F.R.S., London. Charles Higgens, F.R.C.S., London. Dr. Alexander Hill, Master of Downing College, Cambridge. Frederick Hill, Esq., London. Lewin Hill, Esq., London. T. Hyde Hills, Esq., London. Prof. Hirschberg, Berlin, Germany. The late T. Archer Hirst, Ph.D., F.R.S., London. F. H. Hodges, F.R.C.S. Ed., Leicester. Prof. Oliver Wendell Holmes, Boston, U.S.A. Timothy Holmes, F.R.C.S., London. E. H. Holthouse, Esq., F.R.C.S., London. Sir Joseph D. Hooker, K.C.S.L, C.B., Snnning- dale, Berks. Prof. Victor Horsley, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., London. Prof. G. B. Howes, South Kensington Museum, London. Prof. D. E. Hughes, F.R.S., London. J. W. Hulke, F.R.S., London. Sir George Murray Humphry, F.R.S., Cam- bridge. The late Sir Henry Hunt, C.B., Folkestone. Dr. Julian Hunter, Penzance. Jonathan Hutchinson, LL.D., F.R.S., London. Jonathan Hutchinson, Jun., F.R.C.S., London. Right Hon. T. H. Huxley, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., London. Henry Huxley, Esq., London. Dr. Hughlings Jackson, F.R.S., London. Dr. A. H. Jacob, Dublin. Dr. Java!, Paris, France. Sir William Jenner, Bart., M.D., G.C.B., F.R.S., London. J. C. S. Jennings, F.R.C.S., Malmesbury, Wilts. Dr. G. Lindsay Johnson, London. Rev. Prebendary Harry Jones, London. Dr. Emrys Jones, Manchester. Dr. H. Macnaughton Jones, London. Dr. P. de Jong, Leyden, Holland. Dr. M. Juda, Amsterdam, Holland. Prof. Judd, F.R.S., Science Schools, South Ken- sington, London. Henry Juler, F.R.C.S., London. bviii LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. Rev. J. B. Kempe, M.A., London. Dr. George King, F.R.S., Botanic Gardens, Calcutta. Dr. H. Stavely King, M.A., London. Dr. B. E. Klein, F.R.S., London. Dr. H. Knapp, New York, U.S.A. The late Sir Francis Charles Knowles, Bart., F.R.S. G. J. Knox, Esq., London. Prof. Kolliker, F.R.S., Wiirzburg, Germany. Konigsberg Biological Society, Germany. Prof. Kronecker, F.R.S., Berne, Switzerland. Prof. Kiihne, Heidelberg, Germany. Prof. Landois, Greifswald, Germany. Dr. Landolt, Paris, France. W. Lang, F.R.C.S., London. J. N. Langley, F.R.S., Cambridge. Prof. E. Ray Lankester, F.R.S., Oxford. Prof. Laqneur, Strasbnrg, Germany. J. B. Lawford, F.R.C.S., London. Sir Trevor Lawrence, Bart., M.P. George Lawson, F.R.C.S., London. Charles J. Leaf, Esq., London. Prof. Leber, Heidelberg, Germany. C. Austen Leigh, Esq., London. Dr. W. Liddon, Taunton. Dr. Edward Liddon, Taunton. Sir Joseph Lister, Bart., F.R.S., F.R.C.S., London. Dr. David Little, Manchester. Dr. Edward Liveing, London. Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., F.R.S., London. Prof. Ludwig, F.R.S., Leipsic, Germany. Vernon Lushington, Q.C., London. Prof. Alexander MacAlister, F.R.S., Cambridge. Dr. Donald MacAlister, Cambridge. The late Mrs. McCalmont, 87, Eaton Square, London. Prof. Frederick McCoy, Melbourne, Australia. H. A. H. McDougall, Esq., Staplehurst. M. M.MacHardy, F.R.C.S. Ed., London. Prof. J. G. McKendrick, F.R.S., Glasgow. Dr. Stephen Mackenzie, London. J. G. Mackinlay, F.R.C.S. Ed., London. The late Rev. J. Macnaught, M.A., London. Dr. F. N. Macnamara, London. Charles N. Macnamara, F.B.C.S., London R F. MacSwinney, London. Dr. W. O. Maher, Sydney, Australia. Prof. Manz, Freiburg', Germany. Prof. Marey, Paris. The late Prof. John Marshall, F.R.S., London. Herbert Marsland, Esq., Richmond, Surrey. The late Frederick Mason, Esq., Bath. George Du Maurier, Esq., London. ** J. J. Merriinan, Esq., London. Dr. B. Meyer, Paris, France. Philip Meyer, Esq., Orwell, Royston. Prof. Michel, Wiirzburg, Germany. The late Richard Middlemore, F.R.C.S., Edgbas- ton, Birmingham. Rt. Hon. Viscount Midleton. W. P. Mills, Esq., London. Dr. Samuel Mitchell, Plymouth. Prof. Moleschott, Rome, Italy. Prof. Mosso, Turin, Italy. Rt. Hon. Sir John Robert Mowbray, Bart., M.P. Dr. Mules, Manchester. Prof. Nagel, Tubingen, Germany. A. A. Napper, Esq., Cranleigh, Surrey. Dr. Joseph Nelson, Belfast. Edward Nettleship, F.R.C.S., London. B. Newbatt, Esq., London. Miss Florence Nightingale, London. Dr. W. F. Norris, Philadelphia, U.S.A. Dr. Joseph Norsa, Rome, Italy. His Grace the Duke of Northumberland, K.G. Prof. Odling, F.R.S., Oxford. Dr. John W. Ogle, London. Charles Oldham, F.R.C.S., Brighton. Roderick Oliver, Esq., London. Ophthalmological Society of the United King- dom. Dr. W. M. Ord, London. Dr. Osio, Madrid, Spain. Dr. Lloyd Owen, Birmingham. John Padman, Esq., London. Dr. Pagenstecher, "Wiesbaden, Germany. The late Sir George Paget, K.C.B., F.R.S., Cam- bridge. Sir James Paget, Bart., F.R.S., London. Stephen Paget, F.R.C.S., London. Dr. W. J. Palmer, London. Prof. Panas, Paris, France. S. B. Partridge, F.R.C.S., London. Dr. F. W. Pavy, F.R.S., London. Dr. Wm. Pepper, Philadelphia, U.S.A. Prof. Pfliiger, F.R.S., Bonn, Germany. Prof. Pfliiger, Berne, Switzerland.LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. ix Physiological Society, London. The late G. H. Pinckard, Esq., Witley, Surrey. Colonel Wm. Pinney, London. Sir Henry Pitman, M.D., London. Dr. W. S. Playfair, London. H. Davis Pochin, F.C.S., London. The late Henry Pollock, Esq., Treasurer Royal Institution, London. E. B. Poulton, F.R.S., Oxford, Dr. R. Douglas Powell, London. Rees Powell, Esq., Cwmpadest, Cray, Brecon- shire. Henry Power, F.R.C.S., London. D'Arcy Power, F.R.C.S., London. Prof. J. Prestwich, F.R.S., Oxford. Prof. Preyer, Jena, Germany. Dr. W. 0. Priestley, London. Augustin Prichard, F.R.C.S., Clifton, Bristol. Dr. Urban Pritchard, London. J. C. Procter, Esq., Lydd, Kent. Dr. W. R. Pugh, London. Dr. Laidlaw Purves, London. Dr. P. H. Pye-Smitb, F.R.S., London. R. J. Pye-Smith, F.R.C.S., Sheffield. Sir Richard Quain, Bart., F.R.S., London. Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq., London. Rt. Hon. Lord Rayleigh, M.A., Secretary Royal Society. Mrs. Redgrave, 27, Hyde Park Cate, London. Dr. Richard Reeve, Toronto, Canada. Dr. Thomas Reid, Glasgow. Dr. J. Crawford Renton, Glasgow. Prof. Reymond, Turin, Italy. Dr. B. W. Richardson, F.R.S., London. Dr. Argyll Robertson, Edinburgh. Dr. W. C. Rockliffe, Hull. G. H. Rogers, Esq., Taunton. Dr. H. D. Rolleston, London. George John Romanes, F.R.S., Oxford. Dr. B. B. St. John Roosa, New York, U.S.A. Wm. Rose, F.R.C.S., London. Prof. Rosenthal, Erlangen, Germany. Prof. A. W. Riicker, F.R.S., Science Schools, South Kensington. Dr. James T. Rudall, Melbourne, Australia. Dr. W. J. Russell, F.R.S., London. The late Lord Arthur Russell. Prof. Wm. Rutherford, F.R.S., Edinburgh. Prof. Saemisch, Bonn, Germany. Dr. Samelsohn, Cologne, Germany. Prof. J. Burdon-Sanderson, F.R.S., Oxford. Dr. A. E. Sansom, London. Prof. Sattler, Prague, Austria. Sir Edwin Saunders, F.R.C.S., London. Dr. G. H. Savage, London. Sir Wm. S. Savory, Bart., F.R.S., London. Dr. Lewis Sayre, New York, U.S.A. Prof. E. A. Schaefer, F.R.S., London. Prof. Schenkl, Prague, Austria. Prof. Schiess, Basle, Switzerland. Prof. Schiff, Geneva, Switzerland. Prof. Schmidt-Rimpler, Marburg, Germany. Dr. P. L. Sclater, F.R.S., London. Prof. Schwalbe, Strasburg, Germany. Prof. Schweigger, Berlin, Germany. Prof. D. H. Scott, Ph.D., Science Schools, South Kensington. Surgeon-Major J. B. Scriven, London. Dr. Seymour J. Sharkey, London. Charles H. B. Shears, Esq., Liverpool. Dr. Sherrington, London. Septimus W. Sibley, F.R.C.S., London, Dr. Sidebotham, Bowdon, Cheshire. Alexander Siemens, Esq., London. A. Q. Silcock, F.R.C.S., London. Sir John Simon, K.C.B., F.R.S., London. Dr. Frederick Simms, London. Henry Smith, F.R.C.S., London. Priestley Smith, Esq., Birmingham. Rev. Canon Sidney Smith, Brampton Ash, Market Harborough. Thomas Smith, F.R.C.S., London. The late Rt. Hon. W. H. Smith, M.P., F.R.S. H. Southwood Smith, Esq., Holmwood, Dork- ing. Simeon Snell, Esq., Sheffield. Prof. Snellen, Utrecht, Holland. J. Vose Solomon, F.R.C.S., Birmingham. Prof. Charles Stewart, London. Prof. Stilling, Strasburg, Germany. Prof. Stirling. Manchester. Prof. Stelwag von Carion, Vienna, Austria. Sir George Stokes, Bart., Cambridge, late President Royal Society. Dr. J. B. Story, Dublin. Prof. Strieker, Vienna, Austria. Miss Anna Swanwick, 23, Cumberland Terrace, London. b 2LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS. X Dr. H. R. Swanzy, Dublin. The late Thomas Sympson, Esq., Lincoln. Dr. Mark J. Symonds, Adelaide, Australia. Waren Tay, F.R.C.S., London. T. Pridgin Teale, F.R.S., Leeds. Dr. Wm. Thompson, Philadelphia, U.S.A. The late Jas. Henthorn Todd, Esq., Bombay Civil Service, India. T. H. Todd-Connor, Esq., London. Sir John Tomes, F.R.S., Caterham. Dr. H. H. Tooth, London. Dr. F. Charlewood Turner, London. John Tweedy, F.R.C.S., London. Prof. Tyndall, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S. Bowater J. Vernon, F.R.C.S., London. Rev. Principal Wace, D.D., King's College, London. Dr. Wadsworth, Boston, U.S.A. Prof. Waldeyer, Berlin, Germany. Dr. George E. Walker, Liverpool. Dr. Augustus Waller, F.R.S., London. Dr. John Walters, Reigate. W. Spencer Watson, F.R.C.S., London. Rev. H. W. Watson, D.Sc, F.R.S., Brakeswell, Coventry. G. F. Watts, R.A., London. Mrs. G. F. Watts. Dr. John Way, London. Dr. E. Lowe Webb, London. Dr. de Wecker, Paris, France. Dr. A. Pouletfc L. Wells, London. Sir Spencer Wells, Bart., F.R.C.S., London. Dr. Samuel West, London. Captain W. J. L. Wharton, R.N., F.R.S., Wimbledon. Alfred Willett, F.R.C.S., London. Dr. H. W. Williams, Boston, U.S.A. George F. Wilson, F.R.S., Weybridge. The late John Wood, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., London. Basil Woodd-Smith, Esq., London. Dr. G. Sims Woodhead, London. Edward Woods, Esq., London. The late Dr. L. C. Wooldridge, London. Dr. L. K. Yelf, Moreton-in-Marsh. • Prof. Gerald F. Teo, F.R.S., Fowey. Prof, von Zehender, Munich, Germany. treasurer. Sir George Johnson, M.D., F.R.S. SecretarieB. Dr W. A. Brailet. W. H. Jessop, F.R.C.S.PREFATOKr MEMOIR. The accompanying volumes contain the literary and scientific works of Sir William Bowman. At a period of life when most men are only beginning to apply their powers of observation and reflection, he, exercising both in a high degree, had already done work quite unexampled for its novelty, interest, variety, and above all for its accuracy. Before attaining the age of twenty-six he had won for himself a leading position amongst the most eminent anatomists of his time as a microscopist of first-rate ability, and the discoveries he then made, with the conclusions he drew from them, have ever since exercised an important influence in practical medicine, and have served as models for all subsequent and similar investigations. Later in life he became distinguished as an original investigator in physiology, and as a teacher of that subject, and at a still later period, devoting himself to a special branch of his profession, he stepped naturally and easily into the position of leader and representative of ophthalmic medicine and surgery, holding the same position in this country, though for a far longer period, that was occupied in Germany by his friend von Graefe, and in Holland by his still more intimate associate Dondeks. It has been considered a right and fitting tribute to his memory to republish his writings in a collected form in order that they may be accessible to all those who take an interest in the history of medicine, since they really constitute the starting point of all recent work on the subjects with which they deal. It is to be hoped that the student who now or in after years may find time to read these memoirs mayxii PREFATORY MEMOIR. be led to feel that there is always abundant material at hand which will well repay intelligently directed observation, whilst he may rest assured that nothing would have given their author greater pleasure than that his own work, retold, had led a younger generation to more profound and careful investigation of nature and to knowledge more precise and certain than that to which he had himself attained. From the numerous enquiries he recently made from his still surviving school- fellows and their relatives, and from the interest he took in preserving all reminiscences and memorials of his school life, it would appear that he intended to write an autobiography in his retired leisure, and it can only be a matter of regret that his intention was never fulfilled. The principal events of his life are here briefly given and naturally arrange themselves under the several periods of his school days, his association with King's College and its Hospital, when most of his early scientific work was accomplished, and lastly, with the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital, Moorfields, where his opportunities for studying the diseases of the eye were practically unlimited, and where he obtained the knowledge and experience that supplied the materials for his valuable contributions to ophthalmic science. In accordance with this, his literary and scientific work can broadly be divided into early histological writings, his essays on general surgery, and finally, his papers and memoirs on ophthalmic subjects. William Bowman was the son of Mr. John Eddowes Bowman, a banker, and was born on July 20th, 1816, at Nantwich. He died on the 29th March, 1892, from pneumonia, at his country house, Joldwynds, near Dorking, in Surrey, at the age of 76, and lies in the northern slope of the pretty churchyard surrounding the church, built by Mr. Geoege Edmund Street in memory of his wife, at Holmbury St. Mary. Bowman, with two brothers, was educated at Hazelwood School, near Birmingham, which was at that time kept by Mr. Thomas Wright Hill and his four sons, one of whom still lives, whilst another was well known in after years as the principal agent in establishing the penny post—Sir Rowland Hell. Mr. Hill was a highly intelligent but eccentric man, and took great pains in instructing his pupils. Bowman joined the school at thePREFATORY MEMOIR. xiii age of 10, and a report is still extant, written by Mr. Hill apparently for his own guidance, showing in a very exceptional manner the attainments and capabilities of the lad. Amongst other good plans and improvements in education, Mr. Hill adopted the system of monitors with the best effect on his pupils, and a magazine was started, the setting up of the type and the printing being entrusted to the boys. In the fifth volume many of the sheets and articles are signed by Bowman as printer, and his name, as well as that of Montague Villiers, subsequently Bishop of Carlisle, is mentioned as the recipient of several prizes. Even at this early period he was deft of finger, and there still exists in the library of a schoolfellow, now a well-known citizen of Birmingham, Mr. Osler, a card-board model of the school buildings made in their spare hours by the two boys. He seems to have inherited habits of accurate observation from both parents, for his mother was a good draughtswoman and painter of flowers, and could copy in woolwork a flower from nature, whilst his father was a botanist and geologist of more than ordinary attainments in the days when Kobert Brown and Smith were developing those subjects. He left Mr. Hill's school at about the age of sixteen, and was apprenticed to Mr. Joseph Hodgson, a member of the Society of Friends and a highly philosophical surgeon, whose skill was at that time well known in the midland counties. It is said that his desire to enter the medical profession was immediately due to the interest he took in the treatment of a wound of the hand he had accidentally inflicted on himself in the laboratory whilst experimenting with gunpowder. At this period only three years' study were required by the College of Surgeons, the first two of which were directed to be mainly spent in the study of anatomy and physiology. To these subjects he accordingly devoted himself with much earnestness, and the knowledge of them he then acquired stood him in good stead in after years. But even at this time he appears to have felt what he well expressed in an introductory lecture delivered twenty years after at King's College—that if a practical knowledge of anatomy is desirable for the student, the practical knowledge of disease and its treatment, which the wards of a hospital supply, are far more important, still more indispensably necessary to him. He worked unceasingly in the wards and in the post-mortem room, and, from his practice at school, undismayed at the act of placing his ideas upon paper and committing it to the printer, he wrote a monograph on influenza, as well as other papers, which, however, being necessarily crude and immature, he did not think itxiv PREFATORY MEMOIR. desirable to publish. Yet, in looking over one of them, shortly before his death, he remarked to a member of his family that he was surprised to find how much he then knew, and how he could hardly have expressed himself better with his maturer knowledge. The only fragment that remains of this date are some cases in ' Eyland's Diseases of the Larynx,' to which work he contributed four coloured plates. The drawings reproduced in these volumes are well executed, and would prove creditable to any book on the subject published in the present day. At this time he appears to have made a series of measurements of the several orifices of the heart at the instigation of Dr. Blakiston, who, to show his appreciation of this and some of his later work, subsequently presented him with a fine microscope, by Powell, which remains in beautiful order, and is preserved with religious care to the present day. He came to London in 1837, and in October of that year joined the medical department of King's College as an advanced student from Birmingham, working under John Simon, who was then beginning his own fifth year of studentship and had just been made Prosector to Todd for the physiological lectures. In the following year, 1838, Simon became Demonstrator of Anatomy conjointly with, and second to, F. T. Macdougall, whose after career as Bishop of Labuan was so distinguished, and Bowman succeeded Simon in the physiological Prosectorship, and thus commenced the intimate association with Todd which had so great an influence on his subsequent life. In the course of this year he visited the hospitals of Holland, Germany, Vienna, and Paris. In October, 1839, Macdougall having left King's College for Oxford, Simon became Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy, and Bowman was appointed Junior, being made at the same time Curator of the Museum. In 1840 he passed his examination at the Eoyal College of Surgeons, and in 1844 was elected Fellow. At this period King's College Hospital had just been founded, and a brief notice appears in the " Lancet," of Feb. 29th, 1840, stating that Dr. Budd, ofPREFATORY MEMOIR. XV the Dreadnought, had been appointed Professor of Medicine and Physician to the Hospital, and Mr. Fergusson, Professor of Surgery and Surgeon. Simon and Bowman were at the same time, or shortly afterwards, appointed Assistant Surgeons to the Hospital, Simon in particular being associated with Fergusson, and Bowman with Partridge, who was the Professor of Anatomy and Second Surgeon. The colleagueship and intimate daily association of Simon and Bowman continued until Simon removed to St. Thomas' Hospital, and Bowman became Senior Assistant Surgeon. A few years later the pressure of private practice com- pelled him to give up his appointment at the hospital. He did not, however, relinquish all connection with the College, for at the time of his death, Sir William Bowman was still an active Member of the Council and was Chairman of the Medical Committee. His relations with the Eoyal London Ophthalmic Hospital, Moorfields, were that he was appointed Assistant Surgeon in 1846, and in 1851 became full Surgeon, retiring by reason of his age in 1876. In 1842 he married Miss Harriet Paget, and Lady Bowman > still survives him. His family numbered seven, and the title has descended to his eldest son, Sir William Paget Bowman. On first coming to London, Bowman lodged in Norfolk Street, Strand, and then in Craven Street. He subsequently moved to the late Dr. Eobert Lee's house in Golden Square, and then, in 1850, to 5, Clifford Street, the house in which Liston lived and died. From 1857 to 1871 he had a house at North End, in Hampstead, which, as he was an early riser, enabled him to enjoy his favourite pursuit of gardening, leaving for town a little before nine in the morning, whilst it had the additional advantage of permitting him to breathe pure air, instead of entering into society, where he would have always been a welcome visitor, but to the late hours of which he was unsuited. The scientific and literary work accomplished by Bowman during the three cxvi PREFATORY MEMOIR. years, 1839-42, included his original investigations on " The Structure of Striated Muscle," read before the Boyal Society in 1840-41 • on " The Structure of the Mucous Membrane of the Alimentary Canal," which appeared in Todd's ' Cyclopasdia of Anatomy and Physiology'; and on " The Structure of the Kidney," which was read before the Eoyal Society, June, 1842. In the year 1839 Dr. Todd commenced the publication of the ' Cyclopsedia of Anatomy and Physiology,' the largest and most important work of the kind that has appeared in England, and still valuable for the number and variety of the original articles contributed by men of the highest standing. It was natural that Dr. Todd should engage the services of one who had already shown that he was a first-rate microscopist, and who was a member of the staff of his own hospital. Accordingly we find that Bowman was early engaged as a writer, his name appearing for the first time as a contributor in the third volume. The several articles " Mucous Membrane," " Muscle," " Muscular Motion," and " Pacinian Bodies " were from his pen. These were, however, the only articles he wrote for the ' Cyclopsedia,' as he probably then became fully occupied with the preparation of the ' Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man.' The article on " Mucous Membrane " is for the time at which it was written exhaustive, and this piece of work was the more creditable because microscopic research was then in its infancy. The soft tex- ture of the mucous membranes renders them exceedingly difficult to examine, and the means of hardening, cutting and mounting sections which are now common and have so materially aided investigators in this subject, were then almost limited to maceration in alcohol and in solutions of a few salts of various degrees of strength. The appearance of the ' Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' which Bowman wrote in conjunction with Todd, the first part of which appeared in February, 1843, and the fourth and last, in 1856, constituted an epoch in physiology. It was the first physiological work in which histology—the accurate description of the structure of the various organs and tissues as displayed by the microscope—was given. It was written in a singularly lucid and interesting style, and its immensePREFATORY MEMOIR. xvii superiority in microscopical detail may be appreciated by contrasting it with other similar treatises published about the same time, such, for example, as those of Bostock, Elliotson, and Caepenter. The work is well illustrated throughout, and whilst some of the woodcuts are copies from other works, a very large number are to be assigned to the authors, the greater part, both of the sections and of the woodcuts, being made by Bowman ; and so steady and true was his hand, that many of his drawings were made directly on the wood, without the intervention of an artist. The authors acknowledge in the preface to the second volume their indebtedness to Dr. Lionel Beale for drawing up the concluding chapters of the work, and to Dr. Hyde Salter for some of the illustrations. In 1840, he wrote the article "Surgery" in 'The Encyclopgedia Metropolitana,' a succinct but good account of the state of that subject at the time, dealing chiefly with the diseases and injuries of the bones and arteries, wounds, burns, hernia, and diseases of the eye. As the immediate result of his histological work on muscle, he was elected a Fellow of the Eoyal Society, being admitted in 1841 at the unusually early age of twenty-five; and, in the following year, in recognition of his merit in the same line of research on the kidney, he was awarded the Eoyal Medal of the Eoyal Society. The manner in which he fulfilled his duties as a teacher of anatomy and physiology appears to have been in all respects admirable. He was regular in his attendance, both in the dissecting rooms and in the lecture theatre. Thoroughly cognisant of the value of the microscope, he naturally endeavoured to induce the students in the College to cultivate it and familiarise themselves with its use. In those days the microscopes made in England by reliable opticians were very expensive, and to overcome this difficulty he brought over good and far cheaper instruments from Paris. His lectures were well attended. One of his pupils, in c 2xviii PREFATORY MEMOIR. a letter giving an appreciative estimate of his style, remarks that in his day nearly the whole staff—Budd, Partridge, Fare, Forbes, and Kymer-Jones, were excellent lecturers in their several ways, and that, although Bowman was by no means so brilliant a lecturer as either Budd or Todd, his want of animation was compen- sated by his earnest manner and remarkably clear enunciation. He evidently took a deep interest in his work as a teacher, and though far less fascinating than Todd, was more impressive. His delivery was slow, in consequence of his wish to enable students to take full notes of his lectures, a point upon which he always strongly insisted. He appeared to be really fond of teaching, and was always glad to remain in the theatre after his lecture was finished, to explain any difficulty that might have arisen in the minds of the students on the subject under consideration, by whom much information could thus be picked up, whilst his power of expressing in words the thoughts passing through his brain, was a marked feature in his success as a teacher. Turning now to his ophthalmic work, his first important communication was a paper read at the Oxford meeting of the British Association in 1847. This has become classical from the novelty and value of the facts recorded. It was entitled " On Some Points in the Anatomy of the Eye, chiefly in reference to the Power of Adjustment." In this paper he demonstrated simultaneously with, and independently of, Bruecke, the structure and function of the ciliary muscle, and it constituted the subject of the lectures he delivered at Moorfields Hospital. In the year 1851 the ophthalmoscope was devised by Helmholtz, an instrument which has revolutionised the diagnosis and treatment of the diseases of the eye, and Bowman was immediately and profoundly interested in it. He was one of the first to become expert in its use, and we can imagine the animated discussions that would arise when von Graefe and Donders, who met for the first time at Moorfields, in the summer of this year, compared their experience with his. These remarkable men had been attracted to England by the Great Exhibition, and a warm and disinterested friendship sprang up between them and Bowman, which was broken by the death of von Graefe in 1870, whilst Donders survivedPREFATORY MEMOIR. xix till 1889. It will be long before the world will see three such men, all pos- sessing unusual ability and exceptional attainments, all intensely earnest in their work, and all glowing with the interest that is excited by the discovery of a new and unexplored country, meet together in such amity and brotherly love. The discovery by von Graefe that iridectomy was an effective remedy for acute glaucoma was published in the course of the year 1857, and materially modified the treatment of that obscure disease. The method was tried by Bowman, with his accustomed earnestness. He found it effective, and immediately and strongly advocated it. He translated the article " On Glaucoma and the Results of Iridectomy," written by A. von Graefe, in the eighth volume of the ' Archiv. fur Ophthalmologic' and appended notes, in one of which he particularly discusses the occurrence of sympathetic ophthalmia as the result of iridectomy performed on one eye, and in another advocates what is now the almost universal practice of making the section upwards on the ground of preserving the natural appear- ance of the eye for optical reasons, and as aiding in the prevention of cystoid cicatrices the formation of which he carefully describes. The operation has been the means of saving vision in many eyes that would have been otherwise lost, and the translation appeared in the 'Reports of the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital.' In 1864 he gave in the ' Moorfields Reports ' the results of his observations continued for more than a year on needle operations in cases of detached retina, his object being to open a permanent communication between the effused fluid in the subretinal space and the vitreous, thus preventing its further spread between the retina and choroid. He states himself that he was not more surprised than delighted when a positive and sometimes a considerable amelioration of sight took place even in those parts of the field corresponding unequivocally to detached portions of the retina. In the following year, 1865, the method of removing cataract by means of a spoon attracted the attention both of Bowman and of Critchett, both of whom contributed papers on the subject to the ' Reports.' That of Bowman is long, andxx PREFATORY MEMOIR. is an excellent example of the minute care he bestowed on every step and detail of the operation. Other short but valuable communications on ophthalmic subjects to the ' Eeports of the Koyal London Ophthalmic Hospital,' viz., those on " The Treatment of Lachrymal Structure," and " The Division of the Canaliculus for the Belief of Epiphora; " on " The Use of Two Needles at Once in Capsular Cataract," and on " The Operation for Conical Cornea " are all well known to ophthalmic surgeons. When the Ophthalmological Society of the United Kingdom was founded in 1880, Bowman took the warmest interest in its success, and his position, age, and knowledge made it natural that he should be invited to become the first President. He willingly accepted the office, retaining it for three years. His introductory address was simple and earnest, and he continued to the close of his life to support it by liberal donations to its funds. He was delighted to see a numerous band of a younger generation devoting themselves to the earnest study of the diseases of the eye, and by exciting mutual interest and by the exhibition and record of cases that would otherwise have been lost, developing and rendering more accurate and successful both diagnosis and treatment. The natural bent of his mind was towards pathology and operative surgery and to classical work. He may, perhaps, have felt that he suffered from competition with so brilliant an operator as Prof. Fergusson, for it was reluctantly and, as it were, compul- sorily that he became a specialist. When patients presented themselves at King's College Hospital, and asked for the " oculist," he declined the appellation, saying he was a surgeon; but, partly owing to his success in the treatment of the affections of the eye, and partly owing to the circumstance that after Dalrymple's death the heads of the profession, represented by Sir James Clark, Todd, and Liston, strongly supported him, the tide of ophthalmic practice became too strong to be resisted, and he gave himself up to it. His careful and prolonged work with the microscope was an excellent introduction to the delicate manipulations required for the successful prosecution of ophthalmic surgery, and it was soon generally recognised that hexxi PREFATORY MEMOIR. possessed extraordinary skill, both in the diagnosis and in the operative treatment of the diseases of the eye. Of the mature life of a surgeon in active practice in a great city there is little to be said. In his case, rising early in summer, he arrived in town from Hampstead at nine or a little later, attended to Hospital work, King's College or Moorfields, as the case might be, was engaged with patients till late in the afternoon, yet could still find time for council or other meetings of societies that required his presence—and he belonged to many—and returned to the quiet enjoyment of his tranquil home, surrounded by a few choice books and works of art, and a family devoted to his happiness. In winter, living more in town, he attended sedulously the meetings of the Eoyal Society and those of the Eoyal Institution, of which he was for some time the honorary secretary, organising the lectures and taking a deep interest in the promotion of its objects. The want of good nursing in King's College Hospital led to the establishment by Todd, Bowman, and others, of St. John's House and Sisterhood, an institution which, by * providing trained nurses for the sick and poor, was the first to set on foot the present system of hospital and private nursing, a work of which only those who can remember the system as it was, can recog- nise the full significance and value. In this connection he was able, a few years later, to aid Miss Nightingale by sending out trained nurses to the East at the time of the Crimean War, and he was a member of the Council of the Nightingale Fund until his death. In consultation he was gentle, patient, and thoughtful; alive to, and quickly seizing, the salient points of every case; very reserved, giving his opinion in a few words, but decisively, both as to forecast and treatment. A gentleman well qualified to judge, who had visited at different times many surgeons at home and abroad for sub-acute glaucoma, said of him that his touch wasxxii PREFATORY MEMOIR. the " lightest and yet the most enquiring" of all those under whose care he had placed himself. Another who knew him well said of him that one of his most striking characteristics was the power he possessed of concentrating his thoughts for the time on the one subject he was investigating. When iridectomy and tension of the eye engaged his attention, he thought of nothing else, and so with conical cornea and detachment of the retina. He never had more than one subject in his mind at one time, but he worked that one thoroughly out; and so with his patients. Though delicate and fragile both in form and feature, an appearance well rendered in the portraits affixed to these volumes, he was able to endure much work, and rarely suffered from any disturbance of health with the exception of occasional headaches, and in later years slight attacks of sciatica. Without being an ascetic, he was abstemious in his habits, eating little and drinking less. He was an early riser and a non-smoker. He had a clear idea of the relative value of the different branches of know- ledge associated with medicine, and recognised the futility of any endeavour on the part of the student to make himself a profound chemist, botanist, or physiologist, believing that such an attempt necessarily leads to the neglect of the practical subjects which are the occasion for which these foundation sciences are studied. No one knew better than he that " ex libris nemo evasit artifex," the scene of the labours of the student, was, in his opinion, at the bedside of the patient. He strongly recommended the cultivation of the habit of thinking, and carried into practice what he taught. From the beginning to the end of his life he held his profession in high esteem, and believed that to excel in it was worthy of enduring effort. He was an excellent man of business, and made a good chairman, possessing great weight, and a quite exceptional power of swaying the opinions of men to his own way of thinking. His support was, therefore, of great importance to those who were candi- dates for any office, and in effecting changes in the organisation of the institutions to which he belonged. One of his last, if not his last, written utterance is to be found in the gracefulPREFATORY MEMOIR. xxiii tribute he paid to Donders in an obituary published in the " Proceedings of the Eoyal Society" in the course of 1891. The language in which he spoke of his friend might well be applied to himself when he said that he was doubly fortunate; for while he bore a conspicuous part in the extension of knowledge and its beneficent application in fields which he found already ripening for the discoveries with which his fame will be ever associated, he lived long enough to see the rich results of his labours universally and gratefully acknowledged by his contemporaries. HENKY POWER. dVOLUME I BESEAECHES IK PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY. By Sir WILLIAM BOWMAN, Bart., F.R.S. EDITED BY Professor J. BUKDON-SANDEIiSON, M.D., F.RS. Part I.—Contributions to the ' Philosophical Transactions.' Part II.—Selections from the 'Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man.' Part III.—Contributions to the 'Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology.'PREFACE TO YOLUME I The first volume of the Collected Papers of the late Sir William Bowman contains the whole of the epoch-making researches which he accomplished between forty and fifty years ago in the field which he himself—regarding the discovery of the functions and uses of parts as the main purpose of anatomical investigation— designated as that of ' Physiological Anatomy.' It would have been useful to the biological student to have brought the discoveries recorded in Bowman's first communications to the Eoyal Society into contrast with the obscure and unsatisfactory descriptions and statements of the writers on the same subjects who immediately preceded him. It would have been still more interesting to have shown how the inferences drawn by him from the minute structure of secreting glands, after having been for many years disputed, have now been established on the safer basis of physiological experiment, or how the descrip- tions and drawings made by him half a century ago relating to the minute structure of muscle, are consistent with, and might even be said to foreshadow, the most recent revelations of modern histology. Under his guidance, and with his sanction, I should have been glad to have attempted both of the tasks I have indicated, but it is now impossible. In presenting the following Memoirs to the Anatomical Reader, I have only to say that in the selection of the chapters and paragraphs from the ' Physiological Anatomy' I have faithfully followed the Author's directions, and that the whole volume passed under his revision in proof. J. BUEDON-SANDERSON.ANATOMICAL SECTION. INDEX OF CONTENTS. I.—FROM THE ' PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.' On the Minute Structure and Movements of Voluntary Muscle Additional Note on the Contraction of Voluntary Muscle in the Living Body On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney, with Observations on the Circulation through that Gland II.—FROM THE 'PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN.' On the Process of Ossification .. .. .. .. .. ,. .. .. .. .. 89 On Striped and Unstriped Muscle .. .. ,, ,. .. .. .. ,. .. 97 On Muscular Action .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ,. 107 On Fibrous and Vesicular Nervous Tissue .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ,. 129 On the Skin, Nails, and Hairs .. .. .. .. .. .» .. .. .. .. 137 On the Sense of Taste .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 157 On the Olfactory Region .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 171 On the Cochlea .. . 177xxx INDEX OF CONTENTS. III.—FROM THE ' CYCLOPAEDIA OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY.' Mucous Membrane Muscle Muscular Motion ..PART I. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS.'ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. By William Bowman, Esq., Demonstrator of Anatomy in Kings College, London, and Assistant Surgeon to King's College Hospital. In a Letter addressed to Eobeet Bentley Todd, 31.D., F.R.S., Professor of General Anatomy and Physiology in King's College, London. Communicated by Professor Todd. Received June 18.—Read June 18, 1840. My dear Dr. Todd, In offering to your notice the following account of some researches into the minute structure and movements of voluntary muscle, which I commenced at your suggestion, and in the prosecution of which you have so materially aided me, I am encouraged to hope that some parts of the inquiry may not be altogether uninteresting to the Eoyal Society, to which the first discoveries in this important branch of physiology by Eobert Hooke and the illustrious Leeuwenhoek were communicated, and which also possesses, in its later Transactions, important papers on the same subject. It has long been known that voluntary muscle is susceptible of subdivision into minute threads, which being almost uniform in size, unbranched, and united by means of vascular and cellular parts into bundles of varying bulk, have generally been regarded as constituting the essential proximate anatomical element of the organ. All the best observers, since the time of Leeuwenhoek, have recognised the existence of these threads, but their form and composition have been objects of continual dispute, and in the present day we seem to be as little advanced towards the determination of their real nature as ever. The improvements which have taken place in the construction of microscopes, appear indeed to have only afforded grounds for new differences of opinion, as may be seen by the records of the last few years. In 1837 Mr. Skey, after an elaborate investigation, concluded that these threads were tubes containing a soluble gluten, round which were disposed, in longitudinal sets, still finer filaments, which in their turn were held together by circular bands or striae ; and since that period, Dr. Mandl, a microscopical observer in Paris, has described B 24 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND and figured them as bundles of fibrils, held together by a spiral coil of filamentous tissue. A more common opinion is, that these threads are bundles of beaded fibrillae, whose beads being placed side by side, cause the appearance of transverse lines, a view which was first entertained by Fontana,, though his claims to it have been often overlooked. More lately Dr. Schwann and M. Lauth have advocated the same doctrine, especially the former, who has adduced additional arguments in its support. My design in the present paper is, first, to vindicate, under certain modifications, the general correctness of this opinion, and to render more exact and ample the knowledge of its details; secondly, to point out the existence and properties of new parts which, as far as I can ascertain, have not yet been described; and thirdly, to elucidate the proximate cause of voluntary motion, by describing shortly the mechanism of certain movements performed by the elementary constituents of muscles. In speaking of the threads already mentioned, it becomes necessary to attach to them a term of definite meaning. The words fibre, fibrilla, and filament, have been so much abused by indiscriminate application, that it would be confusing the subject to employ them in this sense; and though the term primitive fasciculus, adopted by Font an a and some subsequent writers, will be shown in the sequel to be liable to considerable objections, as implying a composition by smaller fibrils, which can never be said to be a correct expression of the actual condition, yet I shall prefer its use to that of a new designation. The small component fibrils, into which the primitive fasciculus may usuafly be split up, will be styled primitive fibrillar, or simply fibrillar. As even the configuration and bulk of the primitive fasciculi have not hitherto been fully ascertained, these points demand attention. Their shape may be briefly described as polygonal in all animals, though in some examples they approach very nearly to a cylindrical form. The examination may be conducted by obtaining either a longitudinal or transverse view of the parts ; but the former, without precaution, is apt to lead to error. It is usual to place the recent fasciculi, moistened with water, between glasses, previous to inspection, whereby they become swollen from absorption of the fluid, and more or less altered towards a cylindrical figure. If this mode of examination be desired, it is requisite, therefore, either nut to wet the object, or to moisten it with a fluid which is not absorbed, such as thick syrup. It will then be seen that the cross markings, called transverse strise, with which every anatomist is familiar, as visible on the fasciculus, have not uniformly a straight direction across it, but are frequently all bent at an obtuse angle, along a certain line parallel to the margin, showing a sudden change in the aspect of the surface on which the strife are seen. This appearance was not unobserved by Fontana*, who in a figure of four * Fontana, Traite sur le Venin de la Vipere, Tab. vi. Figs. 6, 7.MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. fasciculi, lias represented it more or less decidedly in all, and it lias been observed by others. It is often so slight as at first to escape notice, and it is by no means constant. It is best seen when by an accident a fasciculus slopes from the observer, who, as he alters the focus, so as to bring different portions of it successively before the eye, gains partially such a view as would be presented by a transverse section. Now supposing the fasciculi to be polygonal, the frequent slightness or absence of this appearance may still consist with a uniformity of the configuration which occasions it, since if the fasciculus lie flat, and the observer regard it perpendicularly, as is generally done, he would want that perspective view which could alone disclose it. But besides this, it is easy to notice, as the object is being brought into focus, which part of it is first seen, as being the most prominent, and this is not always the central part. Moreover, as the glass descends, the obliquity of the surfaces may be ascertained by the more or less rapid extension of the field of vision on either side; and if irregularities occur in this respect, they can depend on no other cause than a varying inclination of the surfaces, or, in other words, on angularities of the fasciculus, and this circumstance I have uniformly remarked. Although the cut extremities of recent fasciculi are usually bruised and distorted by the edge of the instrument employed, I have sometimes accidentally obtained one, which, from the sharpness of its outline, seemed fairly to represent the real figure of the fasciculus, and this figure has been polygonal. On one occasion also, when examining muscle that had been macerated in liquor ammonias, the section shown in Plate XVI., fig. 1, presented itself, which is the best of the kind I have met with in a wet specimen. On the whole, my examinations of recent specimens sanction the opinion that the fasciculi are in general far from being cylindrical, though occasionally approaching very nearly to that configuration. It may be said, that the appearances above described are referrible to violence done to the soft and delicate texture of the fasciculus by the act of detaching it from the mass, but their constancy has convinced me that such is not the case; and indeed the form contended for is well designed for package, and is probably determined by the mutual pressure of parts, which have been formed and have increased together. But the most conclusive evidence in favour of the polygonal form of the fasciculi is to be obtained by examining a transverse section of a dried muscle, after causing it to reassume its original bulk by wetting it.* In such examples the fasciculi are without any exceptions found to be not cylindrical, but more or less flattened on several of their aspects, where they are in contact with the neighbouring ones, and this so irregularly, that it would be in vain to attempt a particular description of their forms. An idea will be best conveyed by a reference to the illustrations (figs. 3 * This plan was long ago adopted by Lkbuwenhoek and Pbochaska, as-well as by others.6 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND to 8), in which it will be seen that the sections present almost every variety of figure that can be'enclosed by from three to six or more sides. In some examples, most of the angles are sharp and decided, while others are rounded off, so as to leave spaces between the contiguous fasciculi, often for the passage of vessels. In other instances most or all of the fasciculi have the angles so much rounded that they are not very much removed from the cylindrical shape. These are by far the least common, and I have only met with them in birds. In insects the fasciculi are often flattened bands. (Fig. 2, Staghorn Beetle.) The primitive fasciculi vary considerably in bulk in different classes and genera of animals, and even in the same animal and the same muscle. In the course of my inquiry I have noted down the average diameter of the fasciculi in the specimens examined; and in the following Table, examples of these measurements are exhibited. It is to be observed that where the admeasurement is single, it is an average of many, and two numbers denote the extremes met with. Table. Diameter of primitive fasciculi in fractions of an English inch. Average liameter of same in the class. Other Mammalia^ 'Adult male, ordinary size Another male, ordinary size...... Human <^ Another male, very muscular Adult female, ordinary., ., .Another female, ordinary ..... "Mole (Talpa europcea) Dormouse (Myoxus avellanarius) .. Cat (Feiis domestical) Mouse (Mus) Pig (8 us Scrofa) ■ Horse (Equus) Rabbit {Lepus Guniculus) Hare {Lepus timidus) Cow (Vacca) ., -Sheep (Ovis) "Owl (Strix flammea) Chaffinch (Fringilla Ccelebs) ... Redpole {Linaria vulgaris) Turkey (Meleagris Gallipavo) .. . Heron (Ardea cinerea) _Teal (Querquedula Crecca) Birds. < 5 12 1 to _1_ 5 0 7 tu 19 2 1 to _1_ 3 4 2 LO 2 0 9 6 15 to 3 8 4 1 to 1 5 12 307 1 to 1 7 7 5 5 16 1 to 1 7T7T to 100 0 400 1 400 1 1100 2 5 5 to 5 0 8 i77 to 6 2 0 uu 307 7 7 0 Z0 3 6 0 to T9 "2 330 6 10 t0 5 20 tO TTTnT i to — J— 8 0 0 LU 7 0 0 1 1000 _1_ +o -1- 7 0 0 LU 3 5 0 1500 lo 510 1 7 5 0 Males avei-age -3-5-2 • Common average 1:015 Females average —1— 4 5 4 '5 6 1 ^8 0 77 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. TABLE—continued. Diameter of primitive fasciculi in fractions of an English inch. Reptiles Fish , Insects. Frog (Rami temporaria) Newt (Tritonpalustris) Lizard (Lacerta agilis) <J Gecko (Gecko) Crocodile (Crocodilus vulgaris) .. Boa (Boa) Viper (Vipera Berus) Sturgeon (Accipenser Sturio) .... Skate (Raia Batus) Paracuhu (large river fish of Guiana) Halibut (PleuronectesHippoglossus) Whiting (Gadus Merlangus) Cod (Gadus Morrhua) Salmon (Salmo Salar) Sprat (Clitpea Spraitus) Flying Fish (Exorccelus volitans).. Eel (Anguilla vulgaris) Staghorn Beetle (Ltccamis Cervus) " Water Scorpion " (Ncpa cinerea) "Water Spider" (Gerris lacustris) " Harry Longlegs " (Tipala) .... Garabus nemoralis , " Blue Bottle Fly " (Musca vomitoria) < J, tn _ 1 1000 1 10 0 1 7 00 *° 300 1 600 1 600 1 480 -1 to -1- 6 0 0 LU 13 0 1 3 3 0 _1_ 13 6 6 5 t0 30 0 3 9 0 1 _ 300 _JL_ 1 0 9 1 to -J— 6 0 lo 2 56 3 5 0 _A_ to 1 600 LU 20 0 _JL_ to -1- 7 5 5 TO 3 7 0 _I_ 2 5 0 _i_ to 4 4 3 w 3 10 1 2 0 0 _L_ 2 5 0 _1_ _ 5 00 _1_ to -1- 5 4 1 w 3 7 7 TT±* tO 7 5 5 400 Average diameter of same in the class. r 4 8 4 ^2 2 2 ^41 a From this it would appear that the average diameter of the fasciculi in the Human female is upwards of a fourth less than in the male, and that the average of both together is greater than that of other Mammalia. The class of Fishes has fasciculi nearly four times the thickness of those of Birds, which present the smallest of all. Next to Fish come Insects, then Reptiles, then Mammalia. In each of these different classes an extensive range of bulk is observable, some fasciculi being three, four, or more times the width of others. In the above measurements precautions have been taken to include only specimens in an uncontracted state, the importance of which will be seen in the sequel.8 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND Of the Transverse Strice. A decisive characteristic of voluntary muscle consists in the existence and close arrangement of alternate light and dark lines, discoverable only by the microscope, and of exquisite delicacy and finish, taking a direction across the fasciculi. These lines are so uniformly present, both in recent muscle and in that which has been preserved, either by drying, or in alcohol, solution of alum, corrosive sublimate, or in various other ways, that it is most important to understand correctly their real nature. Their existence was doubtless known to Hooke, and Leeuwenhoek has given more than one very accurate description of them, as well as made constant reference to them in his letters. He believed, during the earlier years of his inquiry, that they were circular bands or girths, surrounding a bundle of fibrillas; but at a later period he regarded them as of a spiral shape, and endeavoured to show, by a fancied analogy with an elastic coil of wire, that they were in some manner the originators of motion. Phochaska seems to have considered them to arise from a series of minute flexuosities of the fibrillse, caused by impressions made upon these by the contact of the filamentous and capillary tissues, which he fancied to penetrate into the interior of the fasciculi and invest each fibrilla. But in endeavouring to sustain an erroneous hypothesis of muscular action, he deceived himself into the opinion that these so-called flexuosities were the same, in kind, with secondary inflexions of the whole fasciculus, and with those zigzag bendings to which Prevost and Dumas have in later years called the attention of physiologists, and thus their real structure eluded him.* Pont ana was the first to give what has seemed to me to be the correct explanation of their nature, where he says, " Les fils charnus primitifs (prim, nbrillse) sont des cylindres solides, egaux entr'eux, et marques visiblement a distances egales de petits signes, comme d'autant de petits diaphragms ou rides. Je n'ai pu appercevoir dans ces fils une marche vraiment ondee et il m'a paru que les petites taches curvilignes du faisceau primitif etaient formees par les petits signes ou diaphragms des fils charnus primitifs."t It is difficult to conceive how the strise should have escaped the observation of Sir E. Home and Mr. Bauer when investigating the structure of muscle, but such seems to be the fact. In the last ten or fifteen years, during which so much more attention has been given to microscopical researches, various observers have noticed * "Quod causam istarum rugarum quaa turn in fasciculis fibrarurn muspularium (Lacerti), turn in fibris muscularibus ipsie (prim, fascic), et fibs carneis (prim, fibrillar) observantur conceinit, id jam in principio bujus capitis attigi, ubi dixi. a filis cellulosis, arteriis, venis, et nervis, fasciculos fibrarum muscular.ium decussari, et alternatim saape ita stringi, ut in serpentinos flexus agantur; idem fit in fibris muscularibus et filis carneis, quae simili prorsus modo a filis cellulosis, vasculosis, et uerveis percuiTuntur et decussantur."—Proch^ska, ' Pe Came Musculari,' Viennaa, 1778, Cap. iv., Sect. i. "j" ' Traite stir le Venin de la Vipere,' p. -129.0 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. them, and attempted to explain their composition. Among these, Dr. Hodgktn and Mr. Lister describe them, but offer no opinion as to their nature. Dr. Schwann adduces several reasons for thinking them formed by the lateral parallelism of the beads of contiguous fibrillae.* Muller adopts this explanation, and M. Lauth holds the same view.t Mr. Skey, in the 'Philosophical Transactions' for 1837, advances a directly opposite opinion. He says that the fibres (primitive fasciculi) are in reality tubes containing a soluble gluten, round which the fibrillse are arranged in sets; that these are finally surrounded, bound together, and retained in their position by the transverse striae, " which are the woof to the warp of the longitudinal filaments, but instead of being interlaced with them, they form circles around, and attached to the most prominent part of the longitudinal filaments, to which they are intimately united" (p. 375). Lastly, so lately as 1839, M. Mandl, speaking of the primitive fibrillae, avows the following opinion: " Les fibres elementaires sont reunies dans une gaine qui est striee a sa surface, et l'ensemble de cette game et des fibres elementaires constitue les faisceaux elementaires, qui sont les parties elementaires des muscles. Voici le resultat de nos r£cherches sur la structure de cette gaine. Les lignes noires (dark transverse striae) ne sont, selon nous, que les bords des lignes blanches (light transverse striae): ces lignes blanches sont les filets du tissu cellulaire qui enveloppe sous forrne de spirale les fibres elementaires, et forme de cette maniere la gaine." J It will at once appear from the preceding statements that the nature of these markings is yet a matter of dispute among those who have the most care- fully studied this subject, and therefore that a new examination and new facts are required to determine it. Enough has also been said to show that their nature cannot be ascertained without elucidating the composition of the whole fasciculus, a circumstance which induces me to make the following discussion subservient to explain the general construction of this proximate anatomical element of muscle. In the first place, it is to be remarked, that no doubt seems to exist as to the fact, that when alternate light and dark spaces are seen on individual fibrillge, detached from the mass, they are precisely equal in width to the light and dark striae on the fasciculus from which they have been withdrawn. There is therefore an evident correspondence in this respect, between the striae on the fasciculus and the markings on the fibrillae, a correspondence which is so exact, that it is reasonable to believe the appearance must be the result of the same cause in each condition ; and either that the striae must be formed by the coaptation of the markings on neighbouring fibrillae, or that these markings must be impressions received from the investing striae, as from a distinct and independent structure. Which of these alternatives is the correct one, I shall now attempt to show. * ' Mul e '3 Phys.,' as translated by Balt. p. 880. t 1 L'lnstitut,' No. 70, 1834. X 1 Ti-aite pratique du Microscope,' Paris, 1839, p. 74-5. C /MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 10 It is to be observed, that the latter supposition entails one of two consequences worthy of being traced; either those filaments only can receive markings which are at the surface of the fasciculus, or, if it be proved that all are marked, all must be at the surface, and the fasciculus must be of the nature of a tube. But both such con- sequences would be at variance with fact; for there will be no difficulty in proving all the fibrillar of a fasciculus to be thus marked, and the fasciculi to be not tubular, but composed of a solid bundle of fibrillse. First, all the fibrilloe are marked. If a muscle that has been macerated in a cool place be examined, the fibrillse will generally be found to fall readily asunder, and float in great numbers about the field of the microscope ; all these fibrillse present the dark and light spaces alluded to; there are none without them. Under the same circumstances fasciculi will offer themselves in a variety of conditions, partially separated into their elementary fibrillse, either at their extremities or centres; and wherever the fibrillse can be clearly distinguished, where their texture has not been destroyed by the macerating process, they will exhibit these alternate dark and light points with more or le^s distinctness. This appearance is often particularly well displayed in the tissue of the heart, which, though its minute structure is not at present, under discussion, I may remark, has decided strise, doubtless produced 'in the same mode as those of voluntary muscle. The heart (figs. 12 and 17) often exhibits in a decided manner the marked structure of the primitive fibrillse, for it seems to separate by maceration or otherwise, rather into irregular masses of fibrillse, than into primitive fasciculi, similar to those of voluntary muscle. Hence a fragment of it has no determinate form ; the fibrillse composing it are broken off at various lengths, some projecting more, others less ; and it is easy to bring into focus successively all the parts of this very irregular surface, and even at its ends to examine fibrillse which stand out form its central portion. All these fibrillse are marked by the alternate light and dark points. It has occasionally happened, especially in the case of muscles with bulky primi- tive fasciculi, that in the manipulation with needles, preparatory to examination, a recent fasciculus has been partially wounded, so that its interior is displayed. A specimen in this state is presented in fig. 9, from the Boa. The fibrillse here seen are all marked. This fact proves that marked fibrillse exist in the interior of the fasciculus, and is not at all controverted by the circumstance that sometimes the surface of such a laceration does not show a structure of this kind, the violence inflicted by the instru- ment being sufficient to account for the destruction or mutilation of parts of so much delicacy. If further evidence be wanting, it may be drawn from the writings of authors. It is highly probable that Hooke,* when he hinted to the Eoyal Society that " he * " On April 25, 1678, lie showed an experiment further to explain the action of a muscle, which was by a chain of small bladders fastened together, so as by blowing into one pipe the whole might be successively filled, and by that means contracted, supposing the fibres ol the muscle, which seemed likeMOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 11 knew of a method of making succedaneous muscles, to give one man the strength of ten or twenty if required," had in view these marked fibrillge, which he thought a series of bladders. Prochaska* was so certain that the fibriHge were marked, or as he thought flexuous in the interior of the fasciculus, that he framed a false hypothesis to explain it, imagining that vessels, nerves, and cellular tissue penetrated within the fasciculi, and twining among the fibrillse, so impressed them. Fontana, as has been seen, believed the fibrillar to be all marked • and it will be difficult to find any one of the older anatomists who had seen detached fibriilge, and who noticed them to be cylindrical, except perhaps Muys,'^ who represents them in one of his figures. Dr. Hodgkin and Mr. Lister make no mention of having seen primitive fibrillar, at any time separated from the fasciculus, nor do they offer any remark as to what they conceive their form to be, further than observing that no trace of globular structure can be detected. Mr. Skey, however, believes the primitive fibrillas to be " uninterrupted threads or cylinders," only " occasionally exhibiting on their surface the marks or indentations corresponding to the distance between the circular stria? on the whole fibre and he supports his opinion by several considerations which demand a distinct examination. He says, in proof that the fibriUas receive their marks from the striae, " I think the filament will present the more or less distinct appearance of a globular structure in proportion to the distinctness of the circular strise :" but it is clear this might be adduced with precisely equal force the opposite way. Mr. Skef argues for the cylindrical form of the fibrillse,' by denying the existence of the reputed globules of Sir E. Home and Mr. Bauer, and by proving the fibrillte to be three times finer than a blood-globule. Now, as to the globules of Sir E. Home, few who have examined the subject, and attentively perused his papers, can doubt that that physiologist was deceived on this subject, since the fibre which he a necklace of pearl in the microscope, might be filled with a very agile matter, which he thought most likely to be air, which being included in so thin skins, was easily wrought upon by heat, cold, or the acting properties of the liquor that pass between them, and so perform the lengthening and contracting of the muscles."—' Postliumus Works by Waller, 1707. Life,' p. 20. In a letter from Leedwenhoek to Oldenburg, August, 1682, he says, that the fibres of flesh are com- posed of globules or particles nearly approaching the globular figure, of which he supposes 1,000,000 would not equal a grain of sand. He afterwards explains, however, that he calls by the name of globules all the particles of which flesh, fat, bone, hairs, &c, are composed, which makes it probable he had then no clear conception of the beaded structure of muscle.—1 Experiments and Observations of Robert Hooke and other eminent virtuosos of his time,' by W. Derham, F.R.S., 1726. * Prochaska says of the blood-vessels, " Sic ergo ex vagina musculi communi per ejus septa intra musculi substantiam usque inter fila carnea conducuntur. In hoc decursu continuo crescit ramorum tenuitas ac numerus, ita ut fibrse musculares (prim, fasc.) non tantum, sed etiam fila carnea (prim, fibrillse), tota sua longitudine arteriolis circumdata et decussata sint." And of the nerves, " Suo decursu et ramificatione arterias propemodum imitantur."—' Ue Carne Musculari,' Sect, i., Cap. v. t Muts, Investigatio Fabricse, quas in partibus Musculos componentibus exstat.—'Lugd. Bat.,' 1741 4 Tab. 1. X 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1K37, p. 376. c 2MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 12 saw, and compared under the microscope with a string of blood-globules, was nearly as large as many examples of the primitive fasciculi, and very much greater than a primitive fibrilla, of the existence of which he seems to have been ignorant. It is therefore erroneous to say, as has frequently been done, that the theory of a beaded structure of the fibrillae originated with, or was supported by, him. He advocated the existence of a beaded tissue, but not such as I believe to exist in nature. To point out his fallacy, therefore, is not to overturn what is here contended for. And with regard to the proportion in size which such beads or particles may chance to bear to the globules of the blood, it is a question long ago set at rest by Leeuwenhoek and Muys, the latter of whom gives accurate relative admeasurements of these parts, and points out their disparity. It is a point, too, which cannot determine the question, since no necessity has been or can be shown why the beads of muscle should conform to the size of the blood-globules, or even of their nuclei. But Mr. Skey's most pointed argument is this : " That in the Cod and Haddock, in which the striae are of extreme beauty and delicacy, the ultimate filaments present no appearance of a globular arrangement, but are distinctly continuous and uniform throughout their whole length." Yet, even granting this fact to be substantiated, it would scarcely invalidate the strength of the arguments above advanced, which speak to positive appearances. However, having been led to make the muscles of these fishes an object of special study, I am not able to confirm Mr. Skey's remark, but have found their flesh to present the same characters with that of others of the same class, many of which have been also made the subject of observation, as the Skate, Whiting, Halibut, Salmon, &c. The most obvious microscopic characters of these seem to be the following. The primitive fasciculi are large and nearly transparent, so that when highly magnified their aspect is not unlike that of glass. This, as might be supposed, is shared with them by the muscle of many Crustacea. The fibrillae are in general distinguished by longitudinal lines, taking the direction of the fasciculi, these lines being here and there exceedingly strong and decided, and leaving but a very narrow light streak between them. In other parts they are fainter, but always parallel, unless the fibrillae are bent by violence from their course, in which case they seem to be easily disarranged, as though their lateral connexion with one another were but slight. The striae upon these fasciculi are very delicate, and quite regular, if the parallelism of the fibrillae be preserved; but where this is disturbed, the striae are, as it were, broken bo pieces, and the individual fibrillae which they crossed, bear upon them the disarranged fragments of the markings of which they consisted. Either the striae or these markings are everywhere clearly visible, except about the very thick longitudinal dark lines described, where they are always faint, sometimes undistinguishable ; a fact which seems sufficiently explained by the presence of those lines absorbing and obscuring by their depth the very delicate striae that cross them at right angles ; and except also where a slight and irregular obliquity of the fibrillae causes so complicated an interference of the longitudinal lines among the cross markings of each, that these lastMOVEMENTS OP VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 13 being the faintest, are only here and there apparent.* The fibrillar, however, are in general readily spread abroad at the extremity of a fasciculus, and there uniformly, when not too much injured or obliquely overlapping each other, present the markings well defined. Indeed, some of the most beautifully marked fibrillae that I have seen have been such as I now speak of, hanging out from the end of a fasciculus taken from one of these fishes. In these also, as in other animals, I have frequently by accident obtained a view of the interior of a fasciculus, and observed every fibrilla to be marked. By maceration it is not difficult to obtain the fibrillae entirely detached, and in these the correctness of Mr. Skey's remark may seem at first sight to be partially borne out, for in many of them it is impossible to detect any appearance of a marked structure. In many others, on the contrary, this structure is evident enough • and by attention to the mode and degree of illumination, I have frequently succeeded in discerning the regular markings, though very faint, on fibrils which appeared before to be decidedly cylindrical. The fact seems to be, that in these fishes the distinction between the light and dark points is not so clear as in most other cases; and their colour being at the same time very light, the extreme tenuity of the ultimate fibrillar does not always allow of their showing individually the markings, which are visible enough when in juxtaposition with one another. It may, therefore, be concluded that they form no exception to the general fact, that all the fibrillae of voluntary muscle possess the markings which we are now considering. Secondly, the fasciculi are not tubular, but consist of a true bundle of fibrillar. In the preceding observations a certain amount of proof has been offered in illustration of this point; it having been shown that accidental wounds frequently display the interior of the more bulky fasciculi, and demonstrate their composition by fibrillse j but as many persons are apt to be sceptical as to the credibility of the results of researches of this naiure, with whatever uniformity obtained, it is necessary as well as interesting to corroborate every observation by others, in which the same structure is brought into view under a variety of aspects. In a subsequent part of this paper some circumstances will be mentioned, relating to the effects produced on the fasciculi by the presence of chemical agents, which are only explicable on the present supposition, but as it would be premature to introduce them here, the same thing may now be proved in another way. It is easy for any one to satisfy himself that the fasciculi are not tubes, by the most decisive of all methods, the making a transverse section; and it is strange that an operation so simple, which was practised both by Leeuwenhoek and PrtocHASKAt should have escaped the attention of some later inquirers. Such a section never presents the slightest appearance of any central cavity. I had made several * These appearances, though in a less degree, are not uncommonly seen in disturbed fasciculi of the muscles of other animals, and they are undoubtedly very deceptive. t Prochaska gives a figure of a transverse section of fasciculi in which the extremities of the fibrillae are seen.MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 14 transverse sections of dried fasciculi, however, before discovering in them any decided trace of the extremities of cut fibrillas, and concluded that in the process of drying, these had been so modified or united together, as to render them incapable of being individually distinguished; for the addition of a little citric acid would frequently expand the section and give its surface a minute mottling, such as I was willing to fancy might depend on the structure in question. These first observations were made on the flesh of Mammals, and I now attribute the indistinctness of the fibrillae to their close and intimate lateral union, whereby they seem in this class to be generally the most reduced to the condition of a solid mass. But continuing to examine specimens derived from various sources, I was gratified by meeting at length with several which afforded the most ample confirmation of the views here adopted. The cut extremities of the fasciculi presented themselves as areas of an angular shape, more or less densely filled with minute dots, which are manifestly the ends of the fibrillae. In Birds more especially, but also in Fish and Eeptiles, I have met with such appearances with great uniformity; and in figs. 3 to 8, are accurate representations from each of these classes. The dots seem to be the extremities of solid threads. They have no central area distinct from their circumference, and the shadow occasioned by the image of a part of the window frame in the field of the microscope, will throw one half of each of them into darkness. It is in this manner only that they can sometimes be brought into view at all. In Fish (figs. 3, 4) the sections of the fasciculi are very ample, and filled up by very fine and closely-set fibrillae, presenting their extremities to the observer. Some of these fibrillae are more distinct than the rest (fig. 4). In many fasciculi the fibrillae are not individually apparent, the whole surface being merely uniformly and finely mottled. In Eeptiles (figs. 5 and 6), the specimens exhibit more or less plainly the ends of the fibrillae composing the fasciculus. In Birds (fig. 7), the fasciculi are small, and more cylindrical, and the fibrillae appear larger and more distinct from one another than is generally the case in the other classes. Some of the areas are larger, more transparent, and less densely filled with dots than the others. In Mammalia, as already stated, the surface is generally nearly uniform, though often finely mottled; but I have occasionally met with specimens in which the extremities of the fibrillae were very visible. From the human subject, an example of this kind is selected (fig. 8). In specimens in which the fibrillae appear separated from one another, no connecting material having an evident structure has been observed. The addition of acid serves materially to increase the distinctness of the fibrillae, an effect apparently due to its widening the interstices between them. Having now shown that the existence of the striae, as an independent structure, would entail consequences not in accordance with my observations, I pass on to an important circumstance corroborative of the view of their nature herein adopted, merely pausing to remark, that no writer who has believed the separate existence15 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE of the striae, has ever given, or attempted to give, a genuine representation of them copied from nature, detached from the structures to which they are said to be connected, and ihat until this be done, the proof of their existence as an element of muscular organization, must be allowed to be deficient. Now if it be true that these cross markings are the effect of an adaptation side to side of the beads of contiguous fibrillae, and that these fibrillae compose the whole thickness of the fasciculus, it is obvious that the striae ought to be found not at the surface alone, but throughout the whole interior of the fasciculus ; and this is rigorously the case. Owing to the transparency of the fasciculi, it is perfectly easy, under a high power, to bring into focus whatever portion of their interior the observer may choose. On bringing the surface nearest to him first into view, the points noticed early in this paper usually present themselves, and as the focus descends into the interior, the striae seem commonly to undergo a slight lateral motion, but continue to be perfectly well defined, until at length they gradually become less clear, or are suddenly lost, according to the thickness of the object The slight motion sideways, which is so very generally observed, is of course merely a deception resulting from the striae seen in succession at any one point not being all precisely in a plane vertical to the observer, but slanting one way or the other from him, so that the focus in following the slant seems to move aside. Though I am not aware that this remarkable fact of the existence of the striae throughout the fasciculus, has hitherto been noticed by anatomists, it appears to me not only to be solely explicable by considering the striae merely an appearance occasioned by the lateral cohesion of a bundle of marked fibrillae, but also, in its turn, to be a proof amounting to demonstration, that such is in reality their nature. A3 far as my experience goes, it is uniformly to be observed wherever the striae are distinct, and it will be decisive in proportion to the transparency and bulk of the fasciculus. Moreover, if the fibrillae happen to have been partially or quite deranged, so that their segments no longer conspire to form striae, but are visible in separate longitudinal rows, these characters are visible in the interior as well as on the surface, and are not lost till the focus passes beyond the object on the opposite side. It will follow from the view of the striae now taken, that they are in truth the edges of focal sections of plates or discs, arranged vertically to the course of the fasciculi, and each of which is made up of a single segment from every fibrilla. The connections between contiguous discs are at least as numerous as the fibrillae, and consist of those parts of the fibrillae which connect their segments into one thread. Whether these are the whole attachments, I have not yet succeeded in satisfying myself. That there are also special means of connexion between the segments of contiguous fibrils, whereby the discs are more or less compactly constructed, is ver}r evident from the regularity with which the fibrillae maintain their apposition with one another; and it is not a little singular that this should have attracted the attention of anatomists to so small an extent as it seems to have done. This is also16 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND proved by phenomena observable in contraction, which will be hereafter described. What these means of connexion may be, however, it is by no means easy to determine. My observations have not led me much further than to enable me to point out some examples in which this adhesion was exceedingly strong, and others where it was so slight, that all trace of stria? was almost sure to be obliterated by the mere act of severing the fasciculi from one another. For instance, muscles in maceration present great variety as to the facility with which they divide into the elementary fibrils, and sometimes their union is so intimate as to permit complete disorganization rather than such separation. But in recent specimens there is a similar variety even more striking in degree. The primitive fasciculi, by traction on their extremities, usually break off short, the line of fracture not appearing to pertain more to the direction of the fibrilla? than to that of the stria?; and there is generally a slight derangement of both these in its immediate neighbourhood. Sometimes, however, the fibrillse project in considerable numbers, as a lash, from both extremities of the fracture, many detaching themselves completely, and floating separately around. Here their lateral adhesion is exceedingly slight, and seems to be diminished by contact with water. The best specimens of this kind are from birds, which also afford the most characteristic transverse sections; and the one fact is strikingly confirmatory of the other, for I conceive it to be owing to the slightness of the connexion between the fibrilla?, that in the latter case these appear so isolated and distinct. On the other hand, it is not uncommon for the fasciculi to evince a disposition to split in the direction of the stria?, so that occasionally they break off quite square, or when pulled at their ends, crack partially acrpss at several points, in lines corresponding to the striae ; this is seen in the case of the Pig (fig. 21). Or several contiguous stria? may be thus separated from one another, as Mr. Sket has well represented,* and as I have not unfrequently seen. An example of this from the Human subject is given in fig. 22. Lastly, the plates, of which the stria? are the edges or sections, may be detached entire, as discs, presenting no evidence of being formed of segments of fibrilla?. Fasciculi thus splitting have no longitudinal lines whatever, so intimate is the union of their fibrilla?. The stria?, on the contrary, are finely developed. Such, however, are not very often met with. Some examples are figured (figs. 23, 24, 25, 26, 27), one from the Sprat, procured while in a recent state, and others from a Lizard which had lain long in spirit. In these instances, the segments of the fibrilla? were united into discs of so compact a texture, that their surfaces presented little or no appearance of their component particles; and they were, on the contrary, so transparent, that a careless observer might have imagined them to be mere rings. One of the most illustrative specimens of the lateral adhesion now spoken of, occurred in a rabbit newly born, which had been kept for some months in spirit. The parts being in progress of development, seemed to have undergone a partial natural dissection. A mass consisting of two or three f 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1837, Plate XIX., fig. 5.17 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. fasciculi was lying in a curved form along the field, and presented on its convex border transverse series of beaded segments two or three deep, which, by the curve given to the part, had lost their longitudinal, but retained their lateral, adhesion. They therefore stood out in relief, in the manner represented in the drawing (fig. 16). Many segments of these outermost fibrillas are completely detached. From what has now been advanced, it is clear that the idea of the composition of the fasciculi by fibriUae requires considerable qualification. They split up, indeed, in general, into fibrillas, but in other cases their natural cleavage is into discs, and in all instances these discs exist quite as unequivocally as the fibrillas themselves. In fact, the primitive fasciculus seems to consist of primitive component segments or particles, arranged so as to form, in one sense, fibrillas, and in another sense, discs ; and which of these two may happen to present themselves to the observer, will depend on the amount of adhesion, endways or sideways, existing between the segments. Generally, in a recent fasciculus, there are transverse strias, showing divisions into discs, and longitudinal strife, marking its composition by fibrillas. The reason why the transverse strias are ordinarily so much more decided, is that the fibrillas are more close together than the discs, and their shaded interspaces consequently narrower. The adhesion of the segments one to another is, in neither direction, fixed and rigid, but of a kind admitting, as will be afterwards seen, of those minute changes of position, which occur during the active state of the organ. The diversity now observed between the longitudinal and transverse union of the segments, may bear reference to the difference in the range of these motions in the two' directions, that in the longitudinal being the more extensive.* Having endeavoured to prove the nature of the transverse strias, and the general construction of the fasciculi, I next proceed to inquire more particularly into the nature and form of the minute segments of the fasciculus already spoken of. In doing this, it will be the most convenient to consider them as they appear when united into fibrillas, this being the form under which they commonly present themselves, and under which it has been customary to regard them. Many attempts have been made to ascertain their nature, but, as it appears to me, without sufficiently attending to the following circumstance: That, in consequence of the original and close union between contiguous fibrillas, not one can be separated from the mass without suffering an unnatural mutilation of some parts of its surface ; a * Since writing the above, I have met with the following remarkable passage in a recently published Croonian Lecture by John Hunter, which I give without comment :— " I do suppose that a muscular fibre is not one uniform body from end to end, but is made up of parts which maybe called the component parts of a muscular fibre; and I am apt to suppose that a change takes place in the position of those parts during contraction, and this alteration diminishes the extent of those parts in one direction, while it is increasing them in another, although from the experiments it appears not to be in the same proportion ; but what that attraction is, I shall not pretend to determine."—Croonian Lecture on Muscular Motion, No. V., year 1781. Hunter's Works, Palmer's Edition, vol. iv., p. 261. D18 MB. BDW.VIAN ON" THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND mutilation which may have an influence on the form it may seem to possess. This source of ambiguity is such as to dispose me to receive with considerable hesitation the representations of primitive fibrilla? furnished by authors ; and the few observations which here follow on this subject are offered with great diffidence. Muller describes the fibrilla? as presenting " a regular succession of bead-like enlargements, which are somewhat darker than the very short constrictions which intervene between them."'* Dr. Schwann, as quoted by the same eminent physiologist, gives a similar account, while Mr. Skey considers the " light to be the elevated stria?, and the dark intervening lines the depressions ;" but with respect to the relative width of the dark and light spaces and stria?, it seems to be agreed that the dark are the narrower. In my examina- tion of the several parts, I have been led to imagine a fallacy to lie in supposing any absolute diversity in their colour. They appear to be rather an effect of a difference in form, or probably sometimes in density alone, between the alternate points of the fibriHa?. There does not seem to be anything in their appearance at variance with such a supposition, since if a rod of glass formed out of beads be held to the light, the beads are distinguished by dark circumferences, and by broad dark bands between them, which will vary with the inclination of their surfaces and the length of the intervening spaces, and would besides be much assisted if the connecting portions were of a less refractive material. Moreover, if two such rods be placed in contact, bead to bead, one behind the other, and then regarded between the observer and the light, the dark circumferences of the beads, at the margin of the rod, will be found to have vanished, the intervening bands being reduced to transverse lines or septa, or, in a word, the elements of stria?. I have had an instrument of this sort constructed, which may be regarded as a very imperfect model of a primitive fasciculus, and which is evidence of an interesting kind that the fibriilse are beaded, and the stria? formed in the manner here above contended font The light and dark points of the fibrilke are capable of being reversed by varying the focus, which shows that they are an appearance occasioned by refraction, the phenomena being precisely those presented by the beaded vibrio, which they often nearly resemble in form as well as size. On tie whole, little doubt remains on my mind that the fibrilla? consist of a succession of solid segments or beads, connected by intervals generally narrower, and I believe the beads to be the light, the intervals the dark, spaces, when the fibril is in exact focus. Considerable variety is to be met with in the relative size of these two parts, but generally they are nearly alike. When there is a difference, it is commonly in favour of the light. In the accompanying sketches of various specimens of fibrillse, it will be .seen that the segments are by no means all of one form. In the new-born Eabbit they present the oval figure, the long diameter of each being in some examples parallel to the fibrillse, in others oblique. The stria? formed by these last are also seen (fig. 10). In the Chameleon the same thing is observed (fig. 14). In the ocular muscle of a fish, there is an appearance of the beads overlapping, and of a lozenge shape (fig. 11). In * ' Physiology,' translated by Bat.y, p. 879. t [These glass rods I still possess.—W.B.]MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 19 the heart of the Turtle the long diameter of the beads is across the fibrillae (fig. 12). The psoas muscle of the Hare presented several fibrillae, in which the beads were further apart than usual, and of an oval form. In one state of the focus they were altogether light, and the intervals wholly dark; but in another, the beads were surrounded by a thick circumference of shadow, and a light streak appeared in the centre of the dark interval (fig. 15), an appearance precisely similar to that which I have observed to Like place in beaded rods of glass with elongated intervals.* In endeavouring to carry my investigations further into the intimate structure of these fibrillae, I have hitherto been completely baffled; nor does the subject encourage very sanguine hopes as to the event of such a search, at least without higher powers of the microscope than we at present possess. From the sections, however, already described, and especially those of the fasciculi of Birds, the fibrillae seem plainly to possess a circular transverse outline. From such varieties in the fibrillae it is not wonderful that corresponding ones in the striae should result, and some of the most remarkable met with since the commencement of my inquiry, are here selected for illustration. Most have their source in a mere derangement of the fibrillae, whereby the strife are more or less distorted, or broken. Gradations of these may be seen in fig. 38, and require no comment. They have been described by more than one author. The usual appear- ance of the strite in a dissected state, may be best illustrated by a specimen from the heart of an Ox, partially affected by maceration (fig. 17). The striae correspond in number with the beads, and the light and dark spaces of -the one form those of the other. But there may be a remarkable obliquity of the striae, as in the new-born Eabbit (fig. 10), and the Chameleon (fig. 14), and as may very often be seen in the boiled muscle of the Crab and Lobster. I have observed that in some atrophied muscles, the striae are very oblique and often bent at a very acute angle in their course, probably from shrinking of the fasciculi (fig. 28). It occasionally happens that in some fasciculi, or parts of fasciculi, of perfectly healthy muscle, the striae are precisely doubled or tripled for a certain space, or at the same spot in different states of the focus. The general appearance met with is represented in fig. 19, from the neck of the Duck. In other specimens, where the striae have been unusually broad, and also thus multiplied in particular parts, I have found it to depend on the segments being * It is not intended to be implied that the above varieties are peculiar to the several animals from which they are taken, or that in these animals similar appearances will uniformly be met with. On this subject (that of form), a much more extended inquiry is requisite, and I would again express my dissatisfaction with the above observations, as being made on detached, and therefore mutilated, parts. Indeed, it may be doubted whether, in the agglomerated state of the segments, their outline do definitely exist on all their aspects ; and whether it be not rather essentially incomplete, through their adhesion to one another. If, however, as appears evident from their refractive powers, the segments are more solid than the medium which connects them, and if they are rounded, and not rectangular, in form, which, after examination with the best instruments, i3 still confessedly uncertain, interstices must exist, capable, perhaps, of facilitating the motions occurring between these parts D 220 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND regularly aggregated into sets of two or three, some of which showed no interval between their component parts, while others did so. This has been nowhere so well marked as in the Crab (fig. 18).""" Another unusual appearance of the striae is displayed in fig, 20, from the Staghorn Beetle. It seems to have been formerly the universal opinion that the transverse striae are in all muscles separated by equal intervals. Mr. Skey, however, has observed that they vary much in thickness and in number on contiguous fasciculi, and he has once seen them .varying in size on the same fasciculus. Dr. Schwann has also remarked, that they vary in closeness on neighbouring fasciculi. This important circumstance will receive elucidation in the concluding pages of this communication, where the muscular motions will be treated of. At present it is only necessary to detail my observations as to the great variety in the number of the striae seen on fasciculi within a certain space. The muscle of adult animals, which has been examined after all contractility had ceased, will be alone alluded to. Some specimens preserved in spirit will be included, because I have ascertained, by direct experiment, that, when irritability has ceased, immersion in alcohol does not modify the size or proximity of the striae. Table, showing the variety in the proximity of the striae in dead muscle. The figures indicate the number of striae in tooo English inch. Number of observa- tions recorded. Maximum. Minimum. Mean. Greatest difference in same specimen. Min. 675 Max. 12-75 11-25 Human. .. . 27 15-0 6-0 9-4< . 6-75 9-0 , 60 11-25 15-0 90 Mammalia . 15 15-0 6-7 10-9 < .... 7 5 9-0 15-0 135 Birds .. . 7 140 7-0 104 Hen (Gallus domesticus, female) . . 7-0 110 Reptiles. 7 20-0 6-7 11-5 9-0 20-0 Fish ... 20 18-0 7-5 - Flying Fish (Exocvetus volitans) .. 9-0 . , . 9-0 18-0 15-0 Insects .. 8 16-0 4-5 95 Blue Bottle Fly (Musca vomitoria) .... 5-25 15-0 * A doubling of the number of the transverse striae may often be seen to be occasioned by an elongation of the interval between the segments, as seen in figure 15 ; and I am induced to believe that in other cases an analogous appearance may depend on a progressing development of new segments, by an imperfect fission.MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 21 Perhaps the most interesting conclusion deducible from the above Table, is the uniformity of the mean number of striae in a given space in the six divisions included in it. The next remarkable fact is, that in each division a great variety is observable in their number, not only in an average of all the examples examined, but in single specimens. And I may add, that this variety has been observed continually, both on contiguous fasciculi, and on the same fasciculus in different parts. I have not considered it requisite to detail the particulars of each observation. Of the Sarcolemma, or Tunic of the Primitive Fasciculus. I now proceed to give some account of a structure entering into the composition of all voluntary muscle, and which, though some imperfect notices of its existence are to be found in two or three authors, is not generally known, and has certainly never been demonstrated in that complete and definite manner which its importance seems to demand. I allude to a tubular membranaceous sheath of the most exquisite delicacy, investing every fasciculus from end to end, and isolating its fibrillse from all the surrounding structures. It is true that numerous writers have described a sheath to the primitive fasciculus; but that by this term is merely intended a production of that general sheath of filamentous tissue which invests the whole muscle and its lacerti, might be shown by a crowd of quotations/" Other sheaths are indeed mentioned, such as that of MANDL,t said to contain the strise, and to be composed of a coil of filamentous tissue ; but such a structure is entirely imaginary. Mr. Skey also speaks of the " tube of the fibre," but without any reference to the true sheath.J Muller alludes to it, however, in the following terms: " Each primitive fasciculus has a very delicate sheath, which can often be perceived, forming a transparent border to the fasciculus."§ And I have lately met with a passage from an unpublished letter by M. Turpin, quoted by MandlIF, in which the author describes it as " a membranous aponeurotic tube, of extreme thinness, white, transparent, and finely puckered or folded crosswise, these folds being rigorously comparable to those, likewise transverse, which exist on the surface of the skin of leeches, when contracted." These folds are afterwards said to be removed by immersion for some days in water, as those of a piece of finely plaited linen would be. From which it seems probable that the author considers this sheath to be concerned in the production of the transverse striae. The illustrative sketch * For example, Leeuwenhoek, passim. Prochaska, De Caime Musculari, sect. i. cnp. in., Hi[/DEBrandt, Anatomie des Menschen von E. H. Weber, Band L, p. 388. Blainville, Cours de Physiologie, vol. ii., 1833, p. 311-14. Cruveilhier, Anat. Descriptive, torn, ii., p. 14. 'Mayo, Physiology,' 3rd edit., p. 31. f ' Traite Pratique du Microscope,' p. 75. I ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1837, p. 377. § 'Physiology,' translated by Balt, p. 882. IF Read before the Academy of Sciences, December 12, 1831.MR. BOWMAN" OiST THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 22 confirms this, for the striae are not seen except where the sheath holds together the primitive filaments, and these are not represented as beaded, where they project as a brush from the extremity."" It will be immediately perceived that the true structure about to be described has no analogy whatever with the cellular membrane of muscle, and that it is not in any way concerned in the production of the transverse striae ; but that, on the contrary, it seems to be a texture sui generis, fulfilling a dis- tinct function, peculiar to muscle. It seems advisable, therefore, to call it by a distinct name, and I have been in the habit of styling it Sarcolemma,i a term descrip- tive of its nature. As, however, in what follows, no allusion whatever is intended to be made to the cellular sheath of muscle, the word sheath, to avoid repetition, will be employed as synonymous with sarcolemma.| This structure can usually be seen best in specimens prepared when recent, but I have preparations which show it perfectly preserved in parts long steeped in spirit. From its extreme tenuity, it would hardly be likely to attract any attention, were it not that, without extraordinary care, it is apt to be detached in different ways from the bundle invested by it, and so to become an isolated object. But when its existence is known, it may often be discovered in unbroken fasciculi, as observed by Mulleh, under the form of a straight linear margin, uninterrupted, and independent of the striae ; which, however, will very probably seem at first to pass completely across, though they terminate, in fact, within this edge. Some accurate observers have doubted the prominence of the beads of the fibrillae, because they have been unable * [Since this paper was read, my attention has been directed to a passage in the fourth edition of ' Dr. Jones Quain's Elements of Anatomy,' 1837 (p. 104-5), where the author speaks of a " Myolema" as having been observed by himself. The following short extracts comprise all that is said by him concerning it: " The fibre (primitive fasciculus) is not homogeneous or gelatinous, but consists of a tube, the myolema, filled with minute globules, as represented in fig. 26." And a little before, speaking of the "minute extremely close transverse bars " (transverse stria?), " these appear to be in the myolema, and to be owing to its being thrown into plica?, as they disappear if the fibre is stretched." And again, in p. 81, where a "speculation as to the mechanism of muscular contraction" is offered, "we can hardly suppose it (the nervous influence) to act on the myolema, which is but a delicate or slightly modified cellular tissue." Mr. W. J. E. Wilson,1 who prepared the specimens examined by Dr. Quain, also describes the sheath of the primitive fasciculi as consisting of cellular membrane.] f This term (from ffap£, caro, and Xepfia, cortex) seems preferable to that of myolema, derived from fids, the whole organ, musculus. % [While these pages are going through the press, I learn that Professor Schwann, in his recent work (' Mikroskopische Untersuchungen fiber die Uebereinstimmung in der Struktur u. dem Wachsthum der Thiere u. Pflanzen,' p. 165), speaking of the development of voluntary muscle, describes, with considerable accm*acy, the membrane here spoken of; and to him its discovery is really due, which I am glad to have an opportunity of acknowledging. He has seen it forming a transparent border to the fasciculi, as well as connecting detached fragments of them, but in Insects and Fish only (see his Plate IV., figs. 4, 5), and he ingeniously supposes it to be a persistent portion of the membrane of the original cells of development, united to form a single tube.] 1 ' The Anatomist's Vade Mecum,' published in the present year.23 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. to see their bulge at the extreme edge of the fasciculus, a circumstance which may depend on the existence of this sheath. It may also be frequently seen encircling the areas of fasciculi in the transverse sections of dried muscle (fig, 7 a), but the readiest and most satisfactory manner of demonstrating it, is to take the fresh muscle of a fish or reptile, and by seizing single fasciculi by one of their extremities, to pull them from the mass. In this operation they undergo considerable stretching, and often break entirely across. But such fractures will vary in extent, and so display the sarcolemma. for this is more extensile than the fibriilas inclosed in it, and therefore, where these have given way, it often remains entire, investing both fragments, and connecting them together. In such a case the severed extremities of the fibrilke have been pulled asunder within the sheath, and a tubular portion of it, containing a little of the water in which the specimen is placed, extends from one to the other (figs. 32 to 36), The sides of this, as might be anticipated, are not in focus at the same time, but they have a tendency to fall together, and do so more or less according to their length, and the amount of extension continued to be applied to the fasciculus. The extremities of the tube always pass to the margins of the fasciculus at its broken part, and embrace it, becoming continuous with its transparent edges, already spoken of. If one of the fragments be turned or twisted, the parietes of the tube are twisted likewise, and thrown into wrinkles, which are most readily visible under the microscope, and evince the wonderful tenuity as well as firmness of the tissue. It not unfrequently happens that the fasciculus has given way at several points, and yet its sheath escaped untorn; the consequence of which is that the broken fragments, more or less deranged according to their size, lie in disorder and turned in various directions within the sheath, which still serves to keep them together, and maybe discerned stretching from piece to piece,inclosing and embracing them all (fig. 36). These tubular bridges are sometimes more than six times longer than the diameter of the fasciculus, a circumstance which abundantly evidences the strength and tenacity of this extremely delicate membrane. But other fractures will be much more partial, scarcely extending through more than a quarter or a half of the fasciculus ; in the gap thus formed, the untorn sheath will be evident by its margin, which has the appearance of being suspended from point to point, and can be traced along the border of the fasciculus. If only two contiguous stride be separated by the traction, the same thing is observable. These appearances are represented in figs. 29, 30. In fig. 31 is a fasciculus partially withdrawn from its sheath. It has been already shown that the mutual adhesion of the fibrillge is liable to vary in amount, sometimes to be almost wanting, and generally to be capable of being diminished by maceration. This circumstance affords a condition to prove the existence of the sarcolemma; for as long as that is entire the fibrillar are kept together, though but very loosely united, and merely fall asunder at the broken extremity, where alone thsy have space to do so. Thus the brush or tassel is formed, which is described and delineated by more than one writer, and which by showing the stria: ofMR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 24 the same size as the beads of the fibrillse, and here and there passing gradually into them, convinced Fontana,* and afterwards Schwann,^ of their true composition. Sometimes, by accidental violence, a recent fasciculus may be reduced to a pulpy mass, in which fragments retaining their striae are strewn in confusion, while the sheath may remain uninjured, and preserve all these parts from falling asunder (figs. 37, 38). But there is another method by which the existence and some of the properties of the sarcolemma may be demonstrated. This depends on the fact that its contents swell considerably when subjected to the action of several fluids, especially acids and alkalies. Phosphoric, tartaric, and citric acids, and potash, are what I have employed most commonly. The sheath dilates at first, but soon grows tense; the effect of which on the fibrilla3 is, that they emerge at its open extremity, where the fasciculus has been broken off, and there swell in diameter ; or if their union is but slight, expand in all directions into a roundish mass or button. Occasionally, in thus emerging, they curl back upon itself the rim of the sarcolemma, which then is seen to grasp them still more tightly (see fig. 47 a a). But if this vent be insufficient, and especially if the fragment be long, so that its ends cannot be reached soon enough, the over-distended membrane gives way, bursting at detached points, and allowing the escape of the contents. The hernias thus formed (figs. 39, 40) admit of easy and close scrutiny by the microscope. They are very peculiar, and curiously illustrate the account I have given of the internal structure of the fasciculus. The fibriilas are not broken, but protrude sideways in loops more or less decided. ISTor is the adhesion by which they are mutually held together dissolved ; although, as all are not alike distorted from their true position, it is so far disturbed, that the striae no longer possess their usual characteristics. The segments of the protruded fibrillse ceasing to form transverse lines, are yet deranged with so much regularity of gradation, that other series of lines are produced, of very beautiful curvatures, not unlike, in general characters, the appearance of engine-turned chasing, though less uniform, and undergoing the most varied changes with every alteration of the focus. These elegant curves are seen all through the protruding mass, and clearly demonstrate the manner in which the true striae are composed. The mode in which the sarcolemma gives way is worthy of particular attention. The rupture having taken place, does not extend in any one direction more readily than in another, but only enlarges so much as to give a bare passage to such fibrillse as force their escape, and generally remains so small as considerably to constrict the base of the hernia. The hernias are usually, therefore, several in number, each consisting only of a few fibrillae, and the opening in the sheath assumes a round or oval figure. From this circumstance, no small degree of toughness may be attributed to the sarcolemma. So extreme is the thinness and transparency of this membrane, that it is difficult to form any decided opinion as to its structure ; but it would seem not improbably to consist of a very close and intricate interweaving of threads, far too minute for separate recognition. * 1 Sur le Yenin de la Vipere,' p. 229. f ' Miiller's Physiology,' by Baly, p. 880.MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. Having at least sometimes discerned in it an appearance not unlike what would result from such a texture, I am induced to conjecture so, but the matter is very doubtful. Its external surface seems to be quite smooth and free, being in contact with the capillary and cellular network of the organ, which embraces each fasciculus, in more or less profusion, according to the animal, and the particular muscle, I have never as yet seen any appearance which could give countenance to the opinion that either nerves or vessels penetrate among the fibriUse, and I am induced to believe that no capillary vessel ever perforates the sarcolemma, which seems to constitute an effectual barrier between the parts within and those without. The inner surface of the sarcolemma ofteD presents irregularities, as if some attachment of the fibriUse to it had existed ; but it never bears upon it the smallest mark of the transverse strise, or of any regular marking, unless, as does occasionally happen, some few fibrillse, or parts of them, remain adherent to it. But this very rarely happens, the whole of the fibriUse usually evincing a greater facility of separation from the sheath than from one another. A few are seen thus adhering in fig. 75 a. The inner surface of the sarcolemma, however, is naturally adherent to the outer- most fibrillse, and most probably in a particular manner.* From some appearances frequently presented by the fasciculi of insects at their margins, and of which an example is given in fig. 70, it would appear that this adhesion takes place to the most prominent parts of the fibrillse, or, in other words, to the rims of the transverse discs which result from their union. The outer scolloped line in similar cases has no doubt been often mistaken for the outer margin of the fibrillse. It is, in fact, indicative of the bulging sarcolemma, which is bound down to the prominent extremities of the light strise, between which the real margin of the fibrillse recedes from it, with an intervening fluid. Now in this specimen the interior of the fasciculus is in focus ; a central row of corpuscles is there seen, and the view of the margin thus represented is, in fact, such as would be obtained by a horizontal section. This fasciculus is thus proved to present on its surface a series of transverse grooves, to which the sheath does not adhere, and in which a fluid is collected. It seems doubtful whether the attachment of the sarcolemma to the prominence of the successive discs be so complete as to isolate the intervening grooves from one another. Another evidence of this adhesion is the following: when the hernice are formed as above mentioned, it is of course so far destroyed. Now the intumescence is occasionally so great, that the sarcolemma is rent extensively on all sides, and fragments of it only remain, not embracing the whole fasciculus. Wherever the fibrillse have detached themselves from the sheath they bulge freely, but where they continue to adhere to its remnants, they are confined and constricted, and the strise cannot expand (fig. 46). This adhesion will afford an explanation of an appearance that for some time puzzled me. It is described by Mr. Skey in the following terms : "a fibre * [Schwann seems to regard the sheath as unadherent to the proper muscnlar tissue (' Untersuchurigen,' p. 166), an opinion which the following considerations show to be erroneous.] EMR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 26 * ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1837, p. 378. (primitive fasciculus) is frequently elongated to a point, up to the extreme external surface of which the circular striee are apparent. If the fibre be a solid cylinder," he then asks, "what becomes of the central substance? for it is evidently the external surface that is so attenuated, indicated by the presence of the circular stria?*." This kind of fracture, which in Mammalia not unfrequently occurs during the manipulation, is occasioned, I suppose, by traction on the opposite ends of the fasciculus. The superficial fibrillar do not break so soon as the central ones, because they are supported by the sarcolemma, which has been already shown to be the more extensible structure : this stretches them, and when at length they give way, they are much attenuated, fall together over those in the centre, and come to a rude point. From the same cause the extremity of a broken fasciculus sometimes may present an appearance of a tube. What much corroborates this explanation is, that in such cases the terminal strise are always much widened and distorted. If the fasciculi be placed in water, some of this fluid is absorbed by them, and they undergo an increase in bulk. This may explain why so many authors have differed from the accurate Leeuwenhoek and Pkochaska, and asserted them to be of a cylindrical form, for when thus swollen they lose much of that angular shape, which is so convenient and necessary for close package in the natural condition. I allude to this fact, however, for the purpose of introducing a description of one of the most instructive phenomena connected with this investigation. It regards muscle, not in a passive, but an active state ; and besides exhibiting the condition of the fibrillar during contraction, which for the present I omit noticing, furnishes a further proof of those qualities and relations of the sarcolemma that have been ascribed to it above. It occurs in fasciculi just taken from the animal, either still living or a moment dead, and it is in the Frog and Newt that I have found it to be most conveniently witnessed. A few fasciculi laid on glass are separated by needles, wetted, and covered with mica. They are then ready for inspection with a high power. Water is taken up into their structure, and their irritability being still retained, and perhaps excited by the distension of the water, the fibriUse begin to contract. By the contraction the water is pressed out forcibly from among them, and their mass diminishes in bulk; the fluid at the same time accumulating at their surface between them and the sarcolemma. The membrane is thus bulged and torn up more or less extensively from its connexions with the fibrilla? (figs. 47 b and 71 to 79). The process may be frequently watched in its whole course; the contraction of the fibrillse is the first step, and as this proceeds the sheath is seen to be elevated a little from their surface, at first in small sudamina-like vesicles. By degrees these increase and coalesce with more or less facility, sometimes subsiding in one part to rise larger in a contiguous one. These slighter and earlier stages of the phenomenon are best seen at the margin of the fasciculus, where a profile view is obtained ; but when the changes are more decided, or indeed even when they are but trivial, provided the eye27 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. is prepared to detect them, they may be discovered on the surface next the observer ; and generally, the folds of the sarcolemma occasioned by a large bulla visible at the margin are traceable for some distance over the proximal surface. In such a case the fibrillae and their striae are beyond the range of the focus in which the sarcolemma is apparent. Sometimes the fluid is expressed in such quantity as to separate the tunic completely from the fibrillae for some length, a circumstance which becomes especially notable when the specimen is accidentally bent, for the fibrillae then take the shortest course along its concavity, the distended membrane forming the convexity of the curve at a considerable distance. The whole sarcolemma thus assumes the appearance of a crystal tube, filled with a transparent fluid, immersed in which the fibrillse pursue their course as a contracted bundle. Lest it should be imagined that the fluid forming these bullae is a normal constituent of the fasciculi, I may observe that none are developed on contracting muscle, when either unwetted, or immersed in a medium of some density, as syrup. Bullae already formed are immediately removed by the presence of syrup, which absorbs their water, and yet I have sought in vain in uncontracted fasciculi placed in syrup for any appearances of shrinking, which would necessarily present themselves did a fluid of so little density exist naturally among any interstices of the fasciculi. There is another illustration of the existence and qualities of the sarcolemma, which seems of so novel and interesting a character, that I cannot refrain from mentioning it. In an Eel, which to all appearance was in perfect health, and contained as usual among its muscles a considerable quantity of fat, one fasciculus of the same size as the rest, instead of presenting the muscular substance, was reduced to a mere diaphanous tube, containing a number of minute parasitic worms, coiled up like the Trichina spiralis, and closely packed together (figs. 41 to 45). The sarcolemma was quite entire, and seemed without disease, but no trace of fibrillae could be discerned on the closest examination. In fact, the sheath of the fasciculus was the only part remaining, the rest having probably become the food of these entozoa. As both ends of the tube remained open, having been broken off, several of the worms escaped from their confinement, and began to show signs of life, uncoiling themselves, and moving about slightly in different directions, with an undulating motion (fig. 42). They were about -j^-th of an inch in length, blunt at one end, and tapering considerably towards the other. They contained in their interior numerous detached dots or granules, of different sizes, but without the appearance of complicated structure, and there were no orifices detectable on their surface (figs. 42, 43). Among the extruded worms there were many globular or oval bodies, nearly as large as one of the coiled parasitess and marked like them with minute dots. Some of these were evidently worms very compactly coiled, but in others no coils could be distinguished. These were smaller, invested by a verj delicate membrane or cyst, having the appearance of immature animals (figs. 44, 45). The whole number of worms in the sheath I found to be more than 100. No other fasciculus was discovered in this state* e 228 MR. BOWMAN ON" THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND but, owing to want of time, a strict search, was not made. Having previously examined minutely several recent examples of the Trichina spiralis, the well-known microscopic entozoon of voluntary muscle, the analogy in form, size, and situation, between that and the one now described, at once struck me ; but the following points of difference will be immediately perceived. The Trichina spiralis lies in the cellular membrane among the fasciculi, always external to the sarcolemma, occupying a cell formed around it by the vital actions of the creature which it infests. Moreover, it is always solitary. On the other hand, this internal Trichina being within the sarcolemma, is entirely unconnected with vascular or cellular parts, is not confined by a cyst, but by the unaltered sheath, and it is gregarious. No artificial method of preparation could more convincingly have proved the toughness and comparative indestructibility of the sarcolemma, than this remarkable morbid condition, accidentally met with. I have ascertained the existence of the sarcolemma in Insects, Crustacea, Fish, Eeptiles, Birds, and Mammalia, and have so seldom failed to demonstrate it at pleasure in any of these classes, that I assume it to be an essential part of the composition of the fasciculi in all animals belonging to them. In some, it is more readily made apparent than in others, and by different methods of procedure, but by one or all of the modes of demonstration above enumerated, there is abundant evidence of its existence in all. The elevation of it by water, pressed out during contraction, may be witnessed in all these classes without exception. In the human subject the sarcolemma is formed as early as the period of birth (fig. 30). The striae are then strongly marked, and the fasciculi are in such a state of development as to be capable of performing motions of considerable extent. Prom this early epoch I have traced this structure at various ages, and in both sexes, to old age, when the atrophy of the muscles has often seemed to render it more easy of detection. It also remains in muscles wasted by disease or inactivity at other periods of life, and no difference has appeared to occur in it, whether the specimens examined were flaccid or firm, pale or dark-coloured. In Birds an exceedingly delicate sarcolemma may be occasionally seen connecting the broken ends of a fasciculus, but it is rare to discern any contraction under the microscope in fasciculi inspected even instantly after death, so quickly does their irritability cease; and where vesicles are discovered they are small and transparent, and would be apt to pass unnoticed unless specially sought for. What may be connected with this circumstance is that the fibrillse show a great proneness to fall asunder in this class, their adhesion to one another being but slight; the transverse striee are often much deranged by dark irregular longitudinal streaks, and in a transverse section, as already seen, the fibrillas are shown more isolated and distinct than in any other examples. In Insects I have repeatedly seen the sarcolemma raised from the surface of the fibrillse, where they were undergoing contraction (figs. 71 to 74). With regard to the use which this remarkable structure may be intended to serveMOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 29 in the economy of the organ, our present ignorance of the essential cause of motion renders any explanation that might be offered of doubtful value. But it has appeared probable to me, 1st, That it may act as a mechanical protector and isolator of the contractile tissue inclosed within it; 2ndly, That its exquisitely smooth external surface may facilitate those rapid minute motions of neighbouring fasciculi one against another, which will afterwards be shown to occur, in all likelihood, in contracting muscle; and, 3rdly, That, from its apparent similarity in structure to the membrane of the nervous tubules, which run among the fasciculi, and between which and the proper contractile tissue it seems certainly to intervene, as well as from its extensive contact and union with the surface of the latter, it may be the conducting medium of that influence, whose mode of propagation the late discoveries of the loop-like termination of the nerves of muscle, have hitherto only seemed to render more inexplicable than ever. Of the Corpuscles of the Primitive Fasciculi. There is a fact in the anatomical history of voluntary muscle which, from its apparent universality, is entitled to some attention, and yet which seems hitherto to have escaped the notice of anatomists; this is, The existence in the primitive fasciculi of minute bodies of a definite form and structure, generally invisible, unless rendered evident by special modes of preparation. The most ready method of demonstrating them, is to touch the specimen with a small quantity of one of the milder acids, as the citric. These agents cause an instantaneous tumescence and transparency of the fasciculi, as has already been stated, and the corpuscles become at once clearly defined. But by the swelling of the fibrillaa among which they are situated, they may be seen to undergo some distortion from their real shape, and it is generally in certain parts alone, as where fibrillse have escaped from the sarcolemma, or the corpuscles become detached, that they present their natural characters. They then appear to be oval or circular discs, frequently concave on one or both surfaces, and containing somewhere near the centre, one, two, or three very minute dots or granules (figs. 39 a, 40 a, 51 a, &c). This at least has been their most common form, when they have seemed most entire and free from injury. It is also their general shape when discernible, as occasionally happens, without chemical treatment. But they present some varieties in figure, being sometimes thick or elongated, or curved and irregularly oblong, at others of indefinite shape and granulated aspect. It is doubtful, however, how far those having such characters are modified by the circumstances of the examination. I have witnessed the breaking down of the more regular ones into a granulated mass, in repeated instances, on the addition of acid, by the forced elongation of the fibrillse, among which they lie (figs. 39, 47), and am therefore induced to think such specimens to be generally misrepresentations of nature. If they be not always fallacious, theyMR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 30 may be regarded as an indication of a deposit and absorption of successive crops of corpuscles. These bodies are usually numerous in proportion to the size of the fasciculus, so that as a general rule equal masses have about equal numbers; but this is liable to some exceptions, as the same fasciculus may sometimes have them crowded in one part, and more scanty in another. Where the fasciculus is small, as in Birds and Mammalia, they lie at or near its surface, but in contact with the fibrilla3, within the sarcolemma. This is clearly shown by bringing into focus different portions of the fasciculus in succession, under high powers, as well as by a corpuscle occasionally adhering to the sarcolemma when separated by fluid from the surface of the nbrillse. But in proportion as the fasciculi assume a greater bulk, the corpuscles are found to be diffused more uniformly through their substance, and may be everywhere traced by a moving focus. This is especially the case in Eeptiles and Fish, in which I first met with them, and where they are at all times the most convenient for observation.* In the Insects that could be most readily obtained, and which have been submitted to examination, they are usually disposed with more symmetry, either singly or in pairs, along the central axis of the fasciculus (figs. 53, 54, 70, 73), an arrangement occasionally observable in Eeptiles (fig. 46), and which affords an important insight into their essential nature. In one instance (in the Chrysalis of the Tiger Moth, fig. 55) a number of corpuscles similar to these were observed on the exterior of a fasciculus, but their relations are doubtful. These corpuscles have manifestly some adhesion to the nbrillse with which they are in contact, since they are influenced by their movements (figs. 39, 47, 85), and generally retain their connexion with them, when these are torn asunder from one another (fig. 49). Seme, however, often become detached, and float in the fluid by which the object is surrounded, thereby evincing their existence as independent parts. They lie among the fibrillar, but so attenuated is their form, that they do not derange the striae. Sometimes, indeed, a dark longitudinal streak may be observed, extending on either hand from the position of one of them; and nothing is more probable than that where such an appearance is not due to violence in manipulation, it may have led to the error of supposing the fasciculi to be compounded of smaller bundles of fibrilke, as Muys regarded it, or of strands, or flattened sets of them, according to the views of a later writer.f It is owing to their extreme tenuity, and the interfering presence of the transverse strife, that in the ordinary state, the corpuscles are concealed, and it is by the augmented transparency of the fasciculi, and the more or less complete removal of the striae, that they are so easily brought into view by acids. And yet there is in this some other principle at work; for brine and the alkalies weaken the striae and remove the opacity of the fasciculi, sometimes without materially serving to display the corpuscles. * Tbeir dispersion among the mass of fibrilhe is well seen in a transverse section from the Skaie (fig. 3), bnt iu general they are not thus visible. t Skey, 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1837, p. 374.31 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. Figs. 48, 49, are taken from a specimen which has been kept some time in spirit, and which when first immersed did not display a single corpuscle. This fluid has not only rendered them more opaque, but has imparted to them a brown colour. In general, however, muscle that has been kept long in alcohol, shows no corpuscles. It is now well known through the researches of Valentin and Schwann, that the fasciculi of voluntary muscle, in the earliest stage of their development, consist of a series of nucleated cells, and that the nuclei continue visible during the period of foetal growth, while those changes are in progress, that terminate in the formation of the transverse striae. They have been supposed to be then absorbed, and it is certain that they do disappear, but I have found that they are only obscured by the growing striae that surround them, and that they are capable of being rendered evident by the same means which have been already shown to discover the corpuscles in the adult. These nuclei of the sarcogenic cells present the identical characters of the corpuscles of adult muscle, and that they are both the same structure, may be regarded as proved by their being met with at every intervening period without any intermission. In confirmation of this view, it is worthy of remark, that the arrangement of the corpuscles in the adult corresponds with their particular variety of disposition in the developing muscle of the same animal. In the larvae of several insects, in which both perfect and imperfect fasciculi may be examined at the same time, the row of central corpuscles is equally well marked in both when properly prepared. In an early stage of their development, the primitive fasciculi are often narrow flattened bands, and present bulgings at irregular distances, which depend on the existence of these bodies. It is interesting to notice how closely, in this state, they resemble in form, size, and structure, the adult condition of the muscle of organic life, which has for the first time been correctly represented and described, though in brief terms, by Dr. Baly, the able translator of Muller's Physiology. This is a fact which may hereafter prove important in the history of organic development. The similitude may be seen by a reference to figs. 56, 60, 66, where both kinds of fibre are delineated. The corpuscles of organic muscle are brought much more completely into view by treatment with acid (figs, 65, 67). . In conclusion, it may be observed, that in the course of my investigations into the minute structure of organs, I have noticed corpuscles of a similar character in the sarcolemma itself, in the coats of capillary blood-vessels, in the sheath of nerve, and in the substance of tendon, all of which I believe to be analogous, both in their origin and nature, with those now described; that is, they are the nuclei of cells from which these several structures have been originally developed. It is, however, not impossible, that in all these cases, there may be during development, and subsequently, a further and successive deposit of corpuscles, from which both growth and nutrition may take their source. In the case of muscle, indeed, this may be regarded as certain, since their absolute number is far greater in the adult than in the foetus, while their number, relatively to the bulk of the fasciculi at these two epochs, remains nearly the same.MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 32 Of the Extremities of the Primitive Fasciculi, and their union to other Structures. This has always been a subject of considerable interest, and an examination of it is necessary to complete the idea of a' primitive fasciculus. I presume it to be well understood, that all fasciculi of voluntary muscle are fixed immediately to some tissue analogous to the fibrous. Such at least is the case in the higher classes, and in the lower it is probably universally true. The gross form under which this fibrous tissue is arranged, it is not my purpose to speak of, as nothing more is here intended than to inquire how its minute fibrils are disposed at their attachment to the fasciculi, and how these fasciculi terminate. The observations which follow are few in number, and it must be left for the future to determine how far the facts elicited are of general application. In Mammalia and Birds it will always be found a very difficult task to detach from the mass a small set of tendinous fibrillse, with the primitive fasciculi belonging to them, in such a way as to gain an unequivocal view of their union; and all my attempts to do this have hitherto failed. This result is to be attributed to the smallness of the fasciculi, and to the abundance and intricacy of the cellulo-vascular network by which they are commonly surrounded, these circumstances tending to prevent the disengagement of the individual fasciculi, and therefore of the minute detachment of tendinous fibrillas with which each is furnished. In Fish, neither of these obstacles occurs, and accordingly in this class the most satisfactory evidence on the subject is to be found. So many deceptive appearances are apt to present themselves in an investigation of this nature, that no conclusion can be fairly drawn from any fasciculus not entirely isolated ; for it is impossible correctly to appreciate the relations of muscular and tendinous parts when mutually intermingled. From inattention to this circumstance, I conceive that excellent physiologist Treviranus has fallen into the error of supposing the fasciculi to taper much towards their extremities, so as to be inserted among, and to be embraced by, the fibrils of the tendon. * In the case of Fish, it is only necessary to procure a fragment (as, for instance, from the Skate), in which the primitive fasciculi arise by tendon. If a minute portion of this tendon be now severed with the muscle attached to it and laid upon glass, it may be split up without difficulty by means of needles into very minute particles. Some of these may be tendon alone, some muscle alone, but others will consist of them both united, and will here and there present accidentally a fasciculus distinct from the rest, with its little bundle of tendinous fibrils attached. Care must be taken not to confound the clear diaphanous sarcolemma, which is almost sure to be made apparent in this procedure, and may be wrinkled, with the undulating fibrous tissue. In such * ' Beitrage znr Aufklarung der Erscheinungen und Gesetze des organischen Lebens,' von 0. R. .Treyiranur, Tab. VIII, Fig. 59.MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 33 specimens the tendinous and muscular structures are readily distinguishable from one another, and the line of demarcation between them is often so definitely in view, that no doubt can be entertained as to the genuineness of the appearances. The tendon seems to transmit a small detachment of its fibrils to each primitive fasciculus, proportioned to its size, which, arriving near its extremity, expands towards it, and is immediately lost by direct continuity with it (figs. 68, 69). The fasciculus does not commence of a taper form, but is of the same bulk at its extremity, as in any other part of its length, and the strife begin from the very extremity of the fasciculus. That is, all its fibrillas are of equal length, and terminate on a level. The beads or segments, too, are uniform in number on every fibrilla of the same fasciculus, or, in other words, the terminal disc is a perfect one. The sarcolemma also continues to invest it to its extreme end, and there seems to terminate abruptly. It follows, therefore, that the extremity of a fasciculus, if a direct view of it could be obtained, would present the same parts as a transverse section, viz., the extremities of fibrillse inclosed by a ring which would be the terminating margin of the sarcolemma. I believe it to be to all these parts that the tendinous threads proceed and become fixed, for the following reasons:— 1st. Such a fasciculus being regarded lengthwise, an uninterrupted clear line is traceable along its edge, and beyond its extremity, where it becomes continuous with the margin of the tendinous bundle. 2nd. The abrupt line of demarcation between the muscle and the tendon is visible throughout, as the focus is made to descend through the object, so that as successive muscular fibrillae are brought into view with their striae, successive fibrils of the tendon also appear. In Crustacea and Insects, in which the muscle is united to hard tendinous or analogous surfaces, the fasciculi terminate unequivocally by a corresponding surface, at the margin of which the sarcolemma finds attachment. I have seen this very plainly in certain insects, as the legs of the Water Scorpion (Nepa cinerea). But the class of Insects will furnish examples of the clearest kind in direct confirmation of the view already taken of this subject in Fishes, and, therefore, showing with how much propriety we may probably venture to extend the description there given to the higher orders, whose primitive fasciculi have so striking a similitude in every essential particular to the same structure in the lower. In fig. 70 are giveu the appearances of two fasciculi out of many similar ones, taken from the leg of a common Blue Bottle Fly (Musca vomitoria). These are detached from one another and each has united to it the small set of tendinous fibrillse (here stiff and somewhat horny, but divisible into exceedingly minute threads), serving to prolong it to its fixed attachment. In these beautifully delicate parts, the following circumstances may be observed:—(1st) the tendon expands to fix itself to the extremity of the fasciculus, and there abruptly terminates, the line of union being definitely notable. 2nd. The extremity of the fasciculus being with certainty apparent, has precisely FMR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 34 the same appearance as its other parts, presenting a perfect terminal disc, and the sarcolemma attached to its border. The corpuscles also advance as far as the extremity. On the Mechanism of the Movement of Voluntary Muscle. Nothing certain is yet known concerning the more minute changes which the primitive fasciculi undergo during a state of contraction. The theory of Prevost and Dumas, though still finding a place in the best physiological works, seems to be falling every day into more general discredit. Many who have endeavoured to inspect the phenomenon on which it was based, have failed in convincing themselves that it is the true condition of contraction; and others, though noticing the fact of the zigzag flexure of the fasciculi, have not confirmed the account given of the correspondence of the angles to the transit of nerves. Professor Owen has been led to doubt it from observing the contraction of the muscular fibres in small filariae (such as commonly infest the abdominal cavity of the Cod), and more especially from observing the contraction of the retractor muscles of a species of Yesicularia. " Each separate fibre of the retractor muscle," he says, "is seen with great distinctness, and is characterised by a single knot or swelling in the middle. In the act of retracting the tentacles,'the fibres become shorter and thicker, especially at the central knot, but do not fall out of the straight line."* I am ignorant whether these be fasciculi having transverse strias. If not, the bearing of the observation on the contraction of striated muscle is less direct and important. The same acute observer afterwards explains, that the zigzag folding of the fibres is characteristic of their state of relaxation, when not stretched by antagonist muscles. Dr. Allen Thomson also, on repeating the experiment of Hales and Peevost on the Frog, "observed single fibres continuing in contraction, and being simply shortened, and not falling into zigzag plicse: and he was led to suspect from this and other circumstances, that the zigzag arrangement was not produced until after the act of contraction had ceased."t M. Lauth, who seems to have investigated this subject most carefully, states that a fasciculus may shorten with or without zigzag inflexions; but he supposes that at all times the fasciculus presents in its whole extent transverse rugge, which may probably, he says, be due to the contraction of the primitive fibrillae."^ Muller says, that contraction by the approximation of the bead-like enlargement can neither be demonstrated nor proved not to take place, but he seems inclined to think such a conjecture not improbable, because the beads of the fibrillar are not necessary to the contraction of the fasciculus into belly-like portions, or to their zigzag inflexion; and also because the strias are not always at the same distance on contiguous fasciculi. "This," he adds, "is all that * Hunter's Works, Palmer's Edition, vol. iv., Note, p. 261-2. t Ibid. \ ' LTustitut,' No. 73, quoted by Muller, Baly's Translation, p. 888.MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 35 can be said in support of the hypothesis of the approximation of the globular enlarge- ments of the primitive fibrilla?.""* I was endeavouring eighteen months ago to inspect, under the microscope, a fasciculus of a Frog, excited by galvanism, and had induced contractions in the specimen so often that it seemed no longer to obey the stimulus applied to it. Continuing to regard it, however, I was surprised to perceive a spontaneous and slow movement, Which consisted of an approximation of the transverse stria?, with a corres- ponding shortening and thickening of the fasciculus. What I have now to offer is chiefly embodied in this simple fact, though somewhat amplified by subsequent researches. From these I am enabled to say with confidence, that in that form of contraction which takes place as the last act of vitality, the transverse stria?, that is, the discs of the fasciculus, approach each other, become thinner, and expand in circumference; in other words, the contractility of muscle is independent of any inflections of its fasciculi, and resides in the individual segments of which these are composed. I have taken from the animal, immediately after death, a miuute piece of some muscle, generally of the extremities, and laid it upon glass, then quickly tearing it into many fragments with needles, so as to separate the fasciculi as much as possible from one another, have moistened it with water, and covered it with a lamina of mica : a magnifying power of 300 or 400 diameters has then been employed. In this manner the muscle of animals possessing transverse stria? may be seen in a contracting state. The contraction commences usually at the cut extremities of the fasciculi, (fig. 85), which are thereby rendered more opaque. The stria? are here seen to be two, three, or even four times as numerous as in the intermediate part, and also proportion- ally narrower and more delicate. As the process goes on, the stria? advance towards those of the contracted portion, and on approaching it are gradually ranged in close apposition to them. The line of demarcation between the contracted and uncontracted portions is well defined, and as fresh stria? are absorbed from the latter into the former, it is seen to make an onward progress. As it advances upon the uncontracted portion, this diminishes rapidly in length, without the contracted part experiencing an equivalent elongation; the consequence of which is a shortening of the whole fasciculus. The contracted part augments in thickness, but in a degree, I think, incommensurate with its diminished length, so that its solid parts actually lie in smaller compass than before ; they are brought into closer apposition with one another. The effect of this is, that the water that has been absorbed is pressed out from the fibrilla?, and accumulates, where it is best able to do so, between the fibrilla? and sarcolemma, giving rise to the appearances of bulla? already described. It often happens, but not necessarily, that besides the approximation of the stria?, the contracted portion exhibits inflexions at distances, sometimes nearly regular, but generally not so, and including from five to thirty, or forty stria?. These inflexions are very slight, and engage either a part or the whole of the fasciculus. They do not * ' Physiology,' Baly's Translation, p. 889-90. F 236 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND occur even when most regular, at special and determinate situations, but may often be seen to alter their position as contraction proceeds, probably in consequence of its irregularity. These inflexions or ruga?, however, are not peculiar to the contracted part, but are seen not unfrequently in fasciculi, which present no contractile movements, and no unusual proximity of the transverse strife. The contracted part of the fasciculus may be frequently recognised merely by its greater opacity, and its more evident longitudinal stria?.* It happens, as might be expected, that these several circumstances are seen under considerable varieties in different animals and modes of observation, but in the main they are very constant and easy of demonstration. In Mammalia, as the Mouse ; in several Reptiles, as the Frog, Newt, Adder; in Fish, as the Eel, Skate; and in Crustacea, as the Crab and Lobster; and in Insects, they have been repeatedly witnessed by many gentlemen to whom I have shown them (see Plate XIX.). In the three latter classes, however, they are best seen, and best of all in the Crab and Lobster, for the tardiness with which the irritability of these animals departs, prolongs the period of observation, and renders the stages of the phenomenon more distinguish- able from one another. The contraction, besides occurring at the ends of the fasciculi, often begins independently at one or more intermediate points, and can here be observed under peculiarly favourable circumstances, for the muscle is very transparent though the fasciculi are of extraordinary dimensions. The first appearance is a spot more opaque than the rest, caused by the approximation of a portion of a few of the discs towards each other ; that is, by the shortening and gathering together of a few segments of a limited number of fibrillge. By altering the focus, the phenomenon may be ascertained to extend as much in depth as in breadth, so that the contracted portion may be compared to a solid ball, lying in the midst of uncontracted and flaccid parts. If this ball be at the surface, the almost invariable concomitant is a collection of expressed water in bullae between the sarco- lemma and fibrillar. The contractile force seems to be exerted solely in the direction of the length of the fibrilla?, for in this direction only are the stria? beyond the spot distorted. The distortion consists of an extreme stretching and widening of them and their interspaces, which is greatest close to the ball, and gradually ceases at a distance of thirty, forty, or more stria?: thus the fibrillse not implicated in the contracted ball are undisturbed, while those so implicated have their segments drawn closely together in the one part, and stretched to a corresponding degree immediatel}r beyond. This first stage is represented in fig. 89. The nucleus of contraction slowly extends itself, by involving a greater length and a greater number of fibrillse, and while doing so, has generally an oscillation along the implicated fibrillse, effected by the alternate attraction and partial release of stria? * Owing to the polygonal, and sometimes flattened form of the fasciculi, they may present, if twisted, an appearance of unequal thickness at different points of their length, without there being, in fact, any contraction or approximation of the transverse strife.MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 37 at its opposite ends. It would almost appear as if the contractile force of the spot were limited ; able only to engage a certain amount of the mass; so that? as fresh portions were assumed on the one hand, some were relinquished on the other. But the occasion of the oscillation would seem to be the traction of neighbouring points, also active, striving to acquire additional strias ; for, as before observed, the cut extremities are always the first to contract, and being thereby rendered thicker, are in some measure restrained from approaching each other by the mica or glass, with which it is necessary to cover the object. Be that as it may, the movements are such as to convey the idea of opposing forces struggling for the mastery, and they do not cease till the whole fasciculus is contracted to less than half its original length. They prove incontestably, that the agency in question, whatever it may be, operates primarily on the individual segments of the fibrilke. When a contraction is very forcible and going on at the same moment at several points of a fasciculus, it may happen, if the pressure on the extremities prevents their approximation, that the intermediate flaccid portions are stretched even to laceration, as seen in fig. 75 from the Frog. This fact may serve to illustrate those remarkable cases of muscular rupture from inordinate action, concerning which much has been written. * In the Skate, the following appearances once presented themselves. Dark waves of contraction, caused by the successive approximation and recession of one side of the discs, began to play backwards and forwards along one margin of the fasciculus. These gradually included the whole breadth of the fasciculus, and then coalesced; permanent rugse at the same time forming in addition, each, about -j^oth inch broad, and including twenty or thirty of the approximated strias. Fig. 98 exhibits these alterations. A contracted fasciculus has often a somewhat uneven or undulated margin, which is sometimes occasioned by very slight irregularities or puckerings of the fibrillse, but more frequently by a transverse wrinkling of the sarcolemma, which, when this is extensively separated by fluid from the fibrillae, is almost a necessary consequence of the shortening of the fasciculus. I have not seen this in contracted fasciculi that have not been wetted, and, therefore, conclude the sheath to be endowed with the requisite elasticity for accommodating it to the varying form of its contents. But where bullae are developed, the folds thus occasioned are strongly marked, and have * See J. L. Petit and M. Roulin, ' Majendie's Journal,' vol. i., p. 295. [I have just been indebted to the kindness of Mr. Busk, surgeon to the Dreadnought Hospital Ship, for an opportunity of examining specimens of muscle, ecchymosed and ruptured by spasmodic action during a rapidly fatal tetanus. We found them to present appearances of disintegration, such as are frequently seen in fasciculi inordinately contracted under the treatment above described, and this to so great an extent, that in many parts neither transverse nor longitudinal strias could be discerned, but only a confused mass of primitive component particles, held together by the sarcolemma, as seen in a portion of fig. 37, from the Prog. Other muscles from the same subject, which had been free from spasm, were in all respects natural.— November, 1840.]38 MR. BOWMAN" ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND very probably been not unfreqnently mistaken for transverse rugae upon the fasciculus. The fibrillae, however, are entirely independent of them, as may be seen in specimens taken from the Newt (fig. 76) and Mouse (fig. 80). In those Birds that have been examined, the irritability has so speedily ceased, that no contraction has been observed. It is almost unnecessary to remark how completely the variety before noticed in the proximity of the striae in all animals in contiguous and even the same fasciculi, is illustrated and explained by the foregoing facts. Such are the principal phenomena observed during that form of contraction which I conceive to be analogous to the rigor mortis ;* but it is undoubtedly necessary to bear in mind, that the fasciculi in which they occur are in a condition very different from those acting in the living body under the influence of volition. It is not by any means intended to be implied, that the healthy movements of muscle are. in every respect such as have been now described; but it seems highly probable, that in kind, at least, they are identical with them. Perhaps, therefore, the mechanism of voluntary motion may receive some elucidation from this phenomenon of lingering vitality. A muscle, if cut whilst irritability remains, retracts to a greater or less extent, as is seen every day in amputations; this is by virtue of a tendency, always existing, towards approximation of the discs, for if a piece so cut be immediately examined, the striae are seen regular in form, and the fasciculi without rugae; The contraction just now described is a subsequent change; and in it a still further approximation of the striae is observed, often so great as to diminish the whole length by more than a half, which is more than occurs in living muscle, even during extreme action. Now the consequence of this is not always the production of even any disturbance of the straight direction of the fasciculus, though small rugae are frequently formed. From this it is evident, that the discs have a very extensive range of motion, quite sufficient to effect, without other mechanism, the ordinary movements of volition. Now with regard to the existence of the rugae and zigzags in the living body, there is a difficulty in comprehending how they can be caused by the approximation of the discs: and to suppose them produced by a different principle, seems at variance * It will probably be no longer doubted, that this interesting and much-canvassed phenomenon is to be ascribed to the muscles; and it need hardly be said how close a bearing the observations above detailed will have on the explanation of its physical mechanism. For impartial evidence of the present unsettled state of the question, consult ' Miiller's Physiology,' Baly's Translation, p. 890 et seq. It is also evident that these observations prove the property of contractility to be inherent in the very structure of muscle, and to be capable of being called into action without the immediate instrumentality of nerves ; for the fasciculi submitted to examination, after being entirely isolated from every surrounding structure, and then remaining some time in a state of rest, have frequently exhibited the contractions described, on the addition of water, which seems to act as a stimulus to them, or by the accidental pressure on some point of their surface of any extraneous fragment of dirt that might happen to be present in the field of the microscope.MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 39 with our experience of the simplicity displayed in all the operations of nature. The only way in which it would appear possible for the rugse to be formed through the instrumentality of the discs, is by assuming a partial contraction on alternate sides of the fasciculus, the concavity of the bend having the closest set striae; but a force thus expended must act at immense disadvantage, and it will not explain the zigzags, which often include many smaller rugse within them.* Independently of this objection, these flexuosities have been shown by the observations of Professor Owen, to be characteristic, in nlarise, of the relaxed state of the fasciculi, under the circumstances which bring their two attached extremities nearer each other.t Moreover, in examining the abdominal muscles of the Frog, I have found that, after their irritability has ceased, the zigzag plicse may be very readily produced at pleasure by approximating mechanically the extremities of the fasciculi; and it cannot surely be thought extraordinary, that under such circumstances the zigzags should often be of nearly uniform size, or that the passage of vessels or nerves among the fasciculi should have the effect of determining the flexures to take place at this or that particular point. I have likewise observed the same thing in various muscles examined under the microscope. Hence it is highly probable, that flexures are always the natural position into which fasciculi are thrown, if, on elongation following contraction, they are not at once stretched by antagonist muscles. •But how is it that, in living muscles undergoing contraction, zigzag plicse have been seen to occur ? The independent power of action of the individual fasciculi has been already shown; and what is more probable than that, in a contracting muscle, these are not all acting at once, but that some contract while others are relaxed? I laid bare the muscle of a living Eabbit, and took hold of a portion of it with a pair of forceps in such a manner as to maintain a steady moderate pressure on the part. The effect of this was not a continuous contraction of the whole part irritated, but a very rapid succession of jerking contractions, implicating its different fasciculi one after the other, by which a continuous approximation of the ends of all the fasciculi irritated was produced. Now here there were straight and zigzag fasciculi; and it is plain that the straight were the shorter, or the contracted, the zigzag the longer, or relaxed. Indeed, if in any muscle in action, zigzags be observed which are not universal, the fasciculi in which they occur must be in a relaxed state, compared to those having a rectilinear direction, and the phenomena of contraction cannot therefore be legitimately referred to them. If zigzags be requisite for contraction, there ought to be no straight fasciculi interspersed among them, but observation teaches us that there are. Besides, when the abdominal muscle of the Prog is laid on glass for observation, and made to undergo contraction, which, when excited by galvanism, is a momentary act, and * In detached fasciculi, indeed, I have sometimes seen this (fig. 81), but consider it the result of irregular contraction. t Hunter's Works by Palmer, vol. iv., p. 261.40 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND difficult of inspection, the return to a straight line, on relaxation, is not brought about by an antagonist force; the ends remain approximated, but the fasciculi being actually elongated fall into zigzags. A phenomenon, the cause of which has frequently been speculated on, may serve yet further to elucidate this hitherto obscure question—I mean that of the sounds heard by applying the ear to a muscle in vigorous action. These sounds have been compared to an exceedingly rapid faint silvery vibration, and they seem to me to be explicable by supposing the several fasciculi to be in rapid and constant motion, one against the other, by varying amounts of contraction in different fasciculi and parts of fasciculi. It has been already shown that a part of a fasciculus may act independently of the rest; that a contraction may oscillate to and fro along a fasciculus, or travel from one end of it towards the other. These phenomena are not imaginary, but may be readily observed by any one in contracting fasciculi removed from the body; and though I do not mean to assert their occurrence in voluntary and healthy contraction, there would appear to be no difficulty in the present state of our knowledge, in concluding that such is actually the normal condition during life. The chief results of the above inquiry may be thus briefly recapitulated : 1. The primitive fasciculi of voluntary muscle consist of elongated polygonal masses of primitive component particles, or sarcous elements, arranged and united together endways and sideways, so as to constitute in these directions respectively, fibrillar and discs, either of which may, in certain cases, be detached as such, and both of which, in the unmutilated organ, always exist together. It is the assemblage of these particles, which may most properly be styled " Sarcous tissue." The dark longitudinal strias are shadows between fibrillse, the dark transverse strise, shadows between discs. 2. Every primitive fasciculus is invested by a highly delicate, transparent, and probably elastic membrane, the sarcolemma, which is adherent to its surface, and isolates the sarcous tissue from every other part. 3. Every primitive fasciculus contains upon or among its primitive particles, numbers of corpuscles, which either actually are, or are analogous to, the nuclei of the original cells of development; and it is certain that, daring growth, these corpuscles increase in number. 4. The extremities of the primitive fasciculi, in certain cases at least, are directly continuous with tendinous structure, and are' not taper, but obliquely or transversely truncated. This is at variance with the common opinion that the tendon embraces each fasciculus, and is continued along it from end to end, constituting its cellular sheath. 5. In contraction of the fasciculi, observed after death, the primitive particles are approximated and flattened in the direction of the length of the fasciculi, and expanded in their transverse direction.41 MOVEMENTS OP VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 6. Such contraction may engage a few such particles only, or the whole fasciculus may oscillate from end to end, without occurring at any special situations or intervals, and may be independent of immediate nervous co-operation. 7. Eugos and zigzag inflexions are a mere consequence of the approximation of the extremities of a fasciculus, otherwise than by its own contraction, and are necessarily obliterated by either its own contraction, or its elongation by other forces. 8. It is highly probable that in all contractions of voluntary muscle in the living body, the same mechanism is employed as in the dying ; and that in the living body these contractions engage only parts of fasciculi at a time, and oscillate along them, as well as occur alternately in different sets of fasciculi. 9. These results are true as regards the vertebrate and articulate classes of the animal kingdom. I remain, yours very truly, King's College, London, William Bowman. June 18, 1840. Postscript. Having in the foregoing paper argued that the contractions of living muscle must be the same in kind with those everywhere noticed by me in animals during the last moments of life, I have now to add the confirmation of direct observation with regard to this point. In the striated fasciculi of the legs of the Monoculus, and of the Argulus, voluntary contractions may be occasionally seen to occur; a portion only of the fasciculus contracts, and may be known by its becoming broader and denser, and its transverse striae closer to one another and narrower than before. The effect of this is a shortening of the whole fasciculus and movement of the limb in correspondence. With respect also to the phenomena of contraction in muscle when removed from the body, I may observe that an opportunity of inspecting them in the human subject having lately presented itself, I have found them to be in every way identical with what has been previously observed in animals as herein detailed, and especially that when the fasciculi were immersed in water, bullte were developed upon them by the elevation of the sarcolemma, and their transverse striae were very much approximated to each other. (See fig. 79.) July 23, 1840.42 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE ANT) Explanation of the Plates. Unless otherwise stated, the figures are represented as seen under a magnifying power of 300 diameters. PLATE XVI. Fig. 1. Human pectoralis major, macerated in liquor of ammonia. Transverse section, showing the prismatical form of the primitive fasciculi. A wet specimen. Fig. 2. Flat primitive fasciculus, from the Staghorn Beetle (Lucanus cervus). Fig. 3. Transverse section of a large primitive fasciculus from the Skate (Raia Batis), showing the extremities of the primitive fibrillas, and the corpuscles throughout its interior. Fig. 4. Transverse section of primitive fasciculi from the Haddock (Gadus CEgleJinus), showing everywhere the extremities of the fibrillas in close apposition with one another. Some few are more distinct than the rest. The disparity in size between contiguous fasciculi is here exemplified. Fig. 5. Transverse section of primitive fasciculi from the leg of the Frog, showing the same points. Fig. 6. Transverse section of primitive fasciculi from the Boa, showing the same. Fig. 7. Transverse section of primitive fasciculi from the pectoral muscle of the Teal [Querquedida crecca), showing the same. In this the extremities of the fibrillas are particularly evident and far apart, and at a the sarcolemma is seen. Treated with weak acid. Fig. 8. Transverse section of primitive fasciculi from the human biceps, showing the fibrillas everywhere, but most distinctly near the surface. Fig. 9. Primitive fasciculus partially fractured, and its interior displayed. The fracture on the outside follows the direction of the transverse striae, while in the interior the broken fibrillas are of various lengths. All these fibrillas present a series of dark and light points. From the Boa : 400 diameters. Fig. 10. Mass of primitive fasciculi (from the leg of a Eabbit at birth), stretched and partially ruptured. The form of the fibrillas still connecting the broken parts is seen more highly magnified in several sketches, b, b, b, and also how their segments conspire to form transverse and longitudinal strias, c. Fig. 11. Part of a fibrilla from the rectus oculi of a large fish (Shark?) that had been long immersed in spirit, very highly magnified to show the form of the segments. Fig. 12. Fragment of a fibrilla from the heart of the Turtle, showing the form of the segments. Obtained by maceration.43 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. Fig. 13. Fragment of a fibrilla from the upper part of the oesophagus of the same. Fig. 14. Primitive component segments of a primitive fasciculus, arranged so as to form longitudinal and transverse striae, very highly magnified to show the long diameter of the segments oblique to these strife, and turned in different directions, so that the transverse striae are broken. From the leg of a Chameleon in spirit. Fig. 15. Four primitive component segments of a fasciculus, united longitudinally to form a fragment of a fibrilla. Yery highly magnified, and in two states of focus, to show their form and density by the varying refraction in the two states. By the lateral adaptation of a series of fibrillae such as this, the transverse striae would be doubled in one state of focus. From the psoas muscle of the Hare. Fig. 16. Several primitive fasciculi from the leg of a Eabbit at birth, macerated several months in weak spirit. On the convexity of the curve many segments of the fibrillae are deficient, and the lateral adhesion of the remaining ones is thus made evident. Fig. 17. Three fragments of a macerated heart (Ox), showing everywhere marked fibrillse, and their union to form striae. Fig. 18. Two fibrillae from a Crab, showing the segments aggregated into sets of three, and thus producing broader and less numerous striae. Fig. 19. Primitive fasciculus from the neck of the Duck in two states of focus. At a the striae are seven in y-^o^1 °f an inch, and at b, twenty-one to twenty-five in the same space. The striae are oblique, by the discs being thrown, as it were, partially on their sides. Fig. 20. Unusual appearance of the striae in a fasciculus of the Staghorn Beetle observed immediately after death. Fig. 21. Portion of a primitive fasciculus from a Pig, showing a cleavage according to the transverse striae. Fig. 22. Human primitive fasciculi, in which the transverse striae are separated. The irregularities are due to the pressure of a lamina of mica. PLATE XVII. Figs. 23, 24, 25, 26. Portions of primitive fasciculi from the leg of a Lizard that had been kept in spirit, in which all appearance of longitudinal striae is absent, and the cleavage is into discs. Fig. 27. Two recent primitive fasciculi from a Sprat, showing the same points. One disc is seen detached. Fig. 28. Primitive fasciculus from an atrophied gastrocnemius muscle (human) showing the angularity of the striae. g 2MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 44 Fig. 29. Part of a primitive fasciculus from the Boa, showing a partial separation of the discs and the untorn sarcolemma between them. Fig. 30. Primitive fasciculus from the pectoralis major of a human fetus at birth, showing a partial separation of the discs (which are proved by the transverse striae to be already formed), and the sarcolemma in the interval. Pig. 31. Primitive fasciculus partially drawn from its sheath. From the Cod, magnified sixty diameters. Fig. 32. Broken primitive fasciculus from the Boa, showing a loose fragment in the tubular sheath connecting the detached portions. Fig. 33. Primitive fasciculus fractured, the ends drawn asunder, but retained in connexion by the sarcolemma, which is twisted. The ends of the fragments are somewhat rounded by it. From the Boa. Fig. 34. Primitive fasciculus (human), broken according to the discs, and the fragments connected by the untorn sheath. Fig. 35. Broken primitive fasciculus from the Frog, showing the tubular sarcolemma connecting the fragments, in a flaccid or collapsed state, and thrown into irregular folds. Fig. 36. Primitive fasciculus broken, by stretching, into several fragments, all of which are still contained in the untorn sheath. Magnified twenty diameters. From the Skate. Fig. 37. Primitive fasciculus partially broken up by its own inordinate contraction into its component segments. The debris all contained in the unmutilated sheath. Corpuscles are seen on some fragments. From the Frog. Fig. 38. 1, 2, 3. Gradational appearance of disturbances of the striae from dis- union of the primitive component segments of the fasciculus, the parts retained in contact by the sheath. From the Skate. Magnified 100 diameters. Fig. 39. Part of a primitive fasciculus of a Skate, swollen by liquor potassas, showing a hernia through a ruptured aperture in the sarcolemma. In this hernia the striae are distorted and variously curved. The corpuscles are elongated in the direction of the fibrillae, and indicate the direction taken by the particles of the protruding mass. Detached corpuscles are represented with their nucleoli (a). Fig. 40. A similar specimen from the human subject, swollen by phosphoric acid. The hernias are seen more completely in profile. The corpuscles are less elongated, but some have nucleoli (a). Their average diameter is 2oVoth of an inch. Fig. 41. Sarcolemma occupied by Trichinae. From the Eel. Fig. 42. Trichina extruded from the sheath, and uncoiled, showing an appearance of granules. This is -^-th of an inch long.MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 45 Fig. 43. Another extruded worm, coiled. Figs. 44 and 45. Granular mass, likewise extruded ; 45. Has the appearance of a transparent investment PLATE XVIII. Fig. 46. Portion of a primitive fasciculus treated with citric acid. The corpuscles are evident, and some are disposed in a central row. The sarcolemma is completely burst, but fragments of it remain, and evince their attachment to the fibrillas by preventing these from freely expanding. From the land Lizard (Lacerta agilis). Fig. 47. Another specimen from the same. Here the fibrilke in protruding from the extremity of the sarcolemma have curled back its rim into a circular roll a, a, tightly constricting the mass, and preventing the escape of fluid, which at b is collected between the fasciculus and its sheath. The resistance of the sarcolemma is shown by the expansion of the mass c, which has escaped from it. In the protruded part, the corpuscles have resumed their oval figure, though somewhat broken. Fig. 48. Part of a primitive fasciculus preserved in alcohol, showing the corpuscles unaltered in shape. The transparent sheath is seen at the margin. From the Frog. Fig. 49. Another from the same specimen, showing the adhesion between the corpuscles and fibrillse. Fig. 50. Portion of a human primitive fasciculus treated with phosphoric acid, and showing the corpuscles. A filament of cellular tissue indents the surface of the fasciculus, and distorts the strige. Fig. 51. Primitive fasciculus from the rectus oculi of the Horse. Tartaric acid. Shows the corpuscles. Some are detached at a and possess nucleoli. Fig. 52. Primitive fasciculus from the Pig. Tartaric acid. Shows the corpuscles. Fig. 53. Primitive fasciculus from the larva of the Libellula, in an early stage of development, showing a row of central corpuscles. Fig. 54. Adult primitive fasciculus from the "Harry Longlegs " (Tipula). Citric acid. Shows the row of central corpuscles. Fig. 55. Primitive fasciculus from the chrysalis of the Tiger Moth, surrounded by nucleated cells. Fig. 56. Primitive fasciculi, in a very early stage of development, bulged at intervals by the contained corpuscles, and presenting a remarkable similarity to adult fibres of the muscle of organic life, as in fig. 66. From the leg of a Chicken, tenth day of incubation.MR, BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 46 Fig. 57. Primitive fasciculus, with a corpuscle projecting on its surface. The transverse striae already developed, and as broad as in adult fasciculi. From the pectoralis major of a Kitten at birth. Fig. 58. Mass of primitive fasciculi from the same, treated with tartaric acid, showing the corpuscles. Fig. 59. Loose cell seen floating near the same specimen, containing a nucleus and nucleolus. Fig. 60. Primitive fasciculi from the pectoralis major of a foetal Calf about two months after conception, showing the corpuscles. Fig. 61. Primitive fasciculi from the pectoralis major of a human nine months foetus, showing the corpuscles here and there, but obscured by the strong trans- verse striae. Fig. 62. Mass of primitive fasciculi from the same, treated with tartaric acid, showing numerous corpuscles, turned in various directions, some presenting nucleoli. Fig. 63. Detached corpuscles from the same. Fig. 64. Detached corpuscles from the scalenus of a child two years old (made evident by citric acid). Fig. 65. Corpuscles in a mass of fibres from the adult human stomach, treated with tartaric acid. Fig. 66, Fibres from the adult human stomach, bulged at intervals by their corpuscles. Without acid. Fig. 67. Mass of fibres from the first stomach of a Sheep ; the corpuscles made evident by tartaric acid. Fig. 68. Attachment of tendon to a primitive fasciculus, from the Skate. On bringing deeper and deeper portions of the specimen into focus, along the line of union between the two structures, fresh tendinous wavy filaments and striated muscular parts came everywhere into view together. Fig. 69, Another specimen from the same, in which the tendon is more spread out. Fig. 70. Two examples of the attachment of tendon to primitive fasciculi from the leg of the large Meat Fly (Musca vomitoria). The centres of the fasciculi are in focus, and present their row of corpuscles. The scolloped margin at a is the sarcolemma raised by fluid. Its attachments are seen to be to the light striae, or the circumferences of the discs. The terminal disc is a perfect one. PLATE XIX. Fig. 71. Primitive fasciculus from the Water Beetle (Dytiscus marginalis), contracted in water, showing the sarcolemma raised in bullae, and a partial separation of the discs.47 MOVEMENTS OP VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. Fig. 72. Smaller primitive fasciculus from the same, in water. The central portion only is contracted, and shows approximation of the striae, increased thickness of the fasciculus, and the sarcolemma elevated in vesicles. Fig. 73. Primitive fasciculus from the Tipula, contracted in water, showing the sarcolemma raised by the fluid, and the central row of corpuscles. Fig. 74. Primitive fasciculus from the larva of the Libellula, contracted in water. The sarcolemma is raised into a large bulla. Fig. 75. Primitive fasciculus from the Frog, contracting in water, the two ends being fixed. The consequence is the rupture of the fLbrillse at intermediate parts, as a, b, but some fibrillar remain attached to the sarcolemma at a. Bulla? are formed, c. The transverse striae are much disarranged by the irregular contraction, and are besides so exceedingly fine in some parts that they cannot be represented. Fig. 76. Primitive fasciculus of the Newt (Triton palustris), contracted in water, showing the sarcolemma elevated extensively by the fluid, and thrown into transverse folds, which are independent of the fibrillae. Fig. 77. Margin of a primitive fasciculus from the Chaffinch (Fringilla ccelebs), contracted in water; the sarcolemma raised in vesicles. Fig. 78. Another, with the adhesions of the sarcolemma to the fibrillae more extensively ruptured, and a bulla formed. Fig. 79. A similar specimen from the fore-arm of the human subject, the limb having been amputated in consequence of a severe injury. Fig. 80. Primitive fasciculus from the Mouse, contracted in water. The sarcolemma much raised by the fluid. Fig. 81. Primitive fasciculus from the Libellula depressa, bent, probably by the instrument. At the concavity of the bend the striae are approximated and the fasciculus is puckered irregularly. Fig. 82. Primitive fasciculus from the Blue Bottle Fly (Musca vomitorid), partially contracted. Fig. 83. Primitive fasciculus from the Staghorn Beetle, contracted in different degrees. The thickening of the fasciculus everywhere corresponds with the amount of the approximation of the striae. Fig. 84. Primitive fasciculus from the land Lizard (Lacerta agilis), partially contracted in syrup, showing approximated striae and increased thickness, but no bullae. Fig. 85. Broken extremity of a primitive fasciculus from the Frog, partially contracted at a, while at b the stria? are more widely separated and its breadth is less. Here also the corpuscles are more elongated than in the contracted portion. From the same specimen as figs. 48 and 49. Fig. 86. Primitive fasciculus from the Eel, partially contracted in water. The contracted part is thickened, its stria? approximated, and its sheath48 MR. BOWMAN ON STRUCTURE AND MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE raised from its surface. At a, the striae are nine in 10100jbh of an inch; at b, they are twenty, and at c, twenty-six in the same space. At a, the diameter of the fasciculus is -g-^oth of an inch, and at c, 3-o~otn- Fig. 87. Primitive fasciculus of the Skate, partially contracted, showing the contracted part augmented in thickness, with approximated transverse striae, and more evident longitudinal striae. Fig. 88. Shows four stages illustrative of contraction, seen on one occasion in a primitive fasciculus of a Skate. The first state is that of rest; in the second, the striae on one margin are approximated in sets, the" contractions at the same time moving onwards. In the third state, the contractions implicate the whole breadth of the fasciculus, and still advance. In the fourth state, the striae are everywhere approximated, the fasciculus is more opaque and thrown into close rugae. The existence of these rugae is an accidental circumstance, resulting from the contraction of neighbouring fasciculi (not represented in the figure) drawing the ends of this one nearer together than they are brought by its own contraction. Fig. 89. Margin of a large fasciculus from a young Crab, in water, showing the first stage of contraction.TML.Trarcs. MDCCCXL. Tlate XVI. f>. 4g5. ^4 1 Human 2 StagJwrn .Beetle- 4 Had/Lock 3- Skate 5 Trot it "St 6 JBocl g J3oa>, _ 400 Dzam,? 7 _Ze<zZ .zz Tectus Ocul£,Tis7v _Z2 Heart, Turtle _z J,. CEsoj)l%agus, Turtle 16 TLablzt at Bzrtfi / 20 StaghonvTeetle> ij Heart, Oa> W.imrmtui M. 21 Tiq 8 Hunimt Tzceps n'-"-W',""'>..i — _Z<5> Jiablzt at Birth. 14- l7ia??ieIzo?v l5 Hare M 2 ig Duck, <w» ooo es». os» sees «oo 22 Human,IHL Irons. MDCC CiE. Tlate XVH .p.4g6. z3 dzzard PPGr 24 Zizard 27 Sprat 2g Hocu .5 Li.zarcL 26 Lizm^d 28 Atrophy Hiancui 3o JUianan.Fattus 37 ITroq 39 Skate r 41 JEeL 40 Hit W3mrmvi.,&l,. #mmm»jiiftjiir • X3asire.sc.Tfal.Trcais.MDCCCXL.Tiate JVUL-p. 48 Frog. is II Thosplz?Actd. 5o Humcav 46 FanFFizard, Citric Add-. 49 Frog. 53 Zajvci.Zib&lhda, 47 LazuiL Lizard, Gtric Acid■.. 5zBig. XartaricAcid. 54 TxpitLcL. Citric Acid. 55 Chrysalis of Fig a- Moth-. 5l Horse, TartaricAdd,. 56 Chick lo^day of InrubatLoTv. 58 Ffitten, at Birth, Tart0 Add-. ..... ..,,„.,...„.,*..••''- 57 Fatten, at Birth 59 6o FcetaL Calf of z months. Human, FceFzs g months. 0* 66 Burruai, Stoma ch> 67 Stomach, of Tart 'rAcid 63 Human Fcetu. 62 HiarumFce-tus g mo f Tart?Acid. 1°' CreatlieMFFLy 65 Hitman, Stoirutclv Tart? Acid. 64 OuLl 2 years. 69 Ska te, 68 S/cate W-fiowrn/in, del. J.£asirJl Dt/llSClLS. 76 Newt. 8l Zarva.ZzbelhilcL . ;'!,?; ::r'rj mm. • 72 Dytiscus. 75 Fn 2^' Mouse 82 Blue Bottle Fly. JPMr. Irans.MDCQZM. .Butte JJX.p. 4gg. 73 TxpidcL 7^ ZarvcL.Zibelhdcv. 77 CfiaffincJt 78 Chaffmxh Human . i^st^fP':"',;t:"v &? StaghorrvBeetle. 86 Eel. 1st State,. Z7^ State. 84 Zand Lizard. /-ijb Syrup.J Skate. 89 Crab. 3rd'State. 4 Jfefc. 85 Frog.ADDITIONAL NOTE ON THE CONTRACTION OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE IN THE LIVING BODY. ii51 ADDITIONAL NOTE ON THE CONTRACTION OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE IN THE LIVING BODY. By William Bowman, Esq., F.E.S., Societ. Philomath. Paris. Corvesp., Demonstrator of Anatomy in King's College, London, and Assistant Surgeon to the King's College Hospital. Received April 15—Read April 29, 1841. In my paper of June last, published in the Philosophical Transactions,* I showed, by observations on the Rigor Mortis, that contraction, in voluntary muscle, essentially consists of an approximation and change of form of the minute particles composing its structure. The phenomena of contraction in living Monoculi and Arguli were also briefly adverted to, but it remained undecided in what manner these minute movements are employed in the higher animals, in the production of motion during life. The almost insurmountable difficulty of submitting the living muscle of the Vertebrata to high powers of the microscrope, so much enhances the value of any facts bearing on this obscure point, that I am induced to lay before the Society a short account of some recent examinations of human tetanic muscle, which, with the considerations accompanying them, appear to me to afford conclusive evidence on the subject. Two opportunities have lately occurred to me of carefully observing the conditions of the muscular system, in cases of fatal tetanus, and the following has been the result:— 1. Many muscles appear healthy in all respects. 2. Parts of certain muscles present a remarkably pale grey aspect, arising, doubtless, from their blood having been pressed out by the contraction, a state of which the appearance has been aptly compared by my friend Professor Budd, to that of the flesh of fishes. 3. In other situations, the muscles have lost in a great measure their fine fibrous character, and present a soft mottled surface, which readily tears, or receives * Part II., 1840. H 252 MR. BOWMAN'S ADDITIONAL NOTE ON THE CONTRACTION OF an impression from the contact of the finger, a condition with which may be associated, 4. Extensive ecchymoses, often contrasting strangely with the pallor of contiguous portions. On microscopic examination, while the other affected muscles appear natural, the primitive fasciculi of those which have lost their texture or are ecchymosed (3, 4), are by no means so, but present at certain points characteristic marks of a high degree of contraction; they are swollen into a fusiform shape, and have their transverse striae very much closer together than usual (Plate II. (a)). Elsewhere these primitive fasciculi are, on the contrary, diminished in diameter, and their transverse striae either greatly widened and deranged (b), or altogether obliterated (c, c, c), in consequence of the whole texture of the organ being broken up into those primitive elements, of which the discs are constructed; and here the primitive fasciculi are frequently broken across, with or without a corresponding rupture of the sarcolemma (d, e). The extent of the swollen or contracted parts seems liable to great variety; the one selected for delineation (PI. II.) contains upwards of sixty striae, but others on contiguous primitive fasciculi were more extensive. Some primitive fasciculi in the neighbourhood, which at the point examined presented no rupture, had a very unusual diversity in the proximity of their striae at different points, but everywhere preserved, like the rest, that proportion which I have shown to obtain between the diameter of the primitive fasciculi and the close- ness of their transverse striae. These I conclude to have been ruptured at a point further on. Although the bare detail of these appearances may seem to warrant the conclusion that contractions have taken place in the situation of the fusiform or belly-like swellings, the effect of which has been to stretch and even to disorganise the remaining parts of the primitive fasciculi, yet I shall endeavour to confirm and illustrate it by the following considerations. 1. The Contraction of a Muscle is the Essential Cause of its own Rupture. This is best exemplified in a fragment of a primitive fasciculus of a reptile or fish removed from the body, and contracting between plates of glass. The contraction commences at its extremities, which, becoming swollen, receive the pressure of the upper plate, and may be fixed by it. If so, the intermediate part is stretched and torn as contraction proceeds ; and if an isolated contraction occurs in the centre, the parts between it and the two extremities are similarly affected,* the conditions of the rupture being (]) a partial contraction of the ruptured muscle, and (2) a force * Loc. cit., p. 39.VOLUNTARY MUSCLE IN THE LIVING BODY. 53 superior to the tenacity of the uncontracted part, holding the ends of the fragment asunder. The same conditions apply in the healthy living subject, where it is impossible, in consequence of the admirable adaptation of mechanical arrangements to the extensibility of muscles, that any rupture can take place solely from the action of antagonists. For example, no force of the flexors of the knee can by itself rupture the extensors, because the structure of the joint prevents flexion being carried beyond a point which the extensors, if relaxed, readily allow. And yet antagonist muscles may and do play a conspicuous part in most muscular ruptures; but it is only by affording a resistance to the approximation of the ends of the ruptured muscle, greater than the tenacity of its uncontracted parts—such a resistance, in fact, as might be offered by any power mechanically adapted to produce the same effect. I say uncontracted parts, and the propriety of supposing them in the living subject appears from the examination of the tetanic muscle; for putting aside the impossibility of any rupture happening in a muscle of which no part was physically weaker than another, by a contraction consisting of an absolutely simultaneous and uniform approximation of all its elementary parts to one another, and supposing for a moment that though the contraction was everywhere present, yet some feebleness of structure, or trifling diminution of the contractile force at one part, determined a rupture to take place there, the resulting appearances would necessarily be altogether different from those that have been detailed. The rupture would be definite and abrupt, without extensive stretching and consequent disorganization, and the whole retracting fibre would bear traces of an uniform and universal contraction, instead of an unequal and partial one, very limited in extent, and similar in every essential character to that which I have delineated in dying muscle.* 2. There is no Repellent Force between the Contractile Elements of Muscular Fibre. When muscle is taken from the body after all irritability has subsided, and when no stimulant has been previously applied capable of disordering its action during the rigor mortis, the distance between the transverse strice will usually be found nearly uniform at every part; but, when partial contractions occur in a fragment that has been removed prior to the cessation of its irritability, the contracted parts remain permanently distinguished from the rest of the primitive fasciculus, by the closeness of their transverse strife. In the former case, every primitive fasciculus having its extremities held apart by its proper antagonists, the contractile efforts constituting the rigor mortis are uniformly and gradually expended, and no inordinate amount of * Loo. oit, Plate XIX., figs. 83, 88, No. 3, &c.54 MR. BOWMAN'S ADDITIONAL NOTE ON THE CONTRACTION OF contraction can leave its vestiges in any part; but in the latter, no such antagonizing power being exerted, the contractions remain wherever and to whatever degree they may have been present. This explanation involves and rests upon the above principle, and it follows, that whatever prevents a muscular fibre from being elongated, when its contractile energy subsides, must cause it to retain that arrangement of its parts which was assumed during contraction. Now, in the examples under consideration, the rupture prevented such an elongation, and the result is, that the organ has been, as it were, surprised in the very act of contraction, and retains in its structure the permanent impression of that act,—a view strongly corroborated by the uniformity of the distance between the transverse strise in those muscles, which had been likewise convulsed, but had escaped rupture. It may be further remarked, that the occurrence of ecchymoses entirely accords with the idea of partial contractions, while it is inconsistent with that of an universal one, for how could the vessels be torn in tetanic spasm if this were merely a strong and enduring, but uniform approximation of all the elements of the primitive fasciculi to one another ? They would be compressed indeed, but not dragged asunder; whereas, such would be the natural effect of excessive partial contractions, oscillating from place to place, and continually drawing in opposite directions, and in an irregular manner, the uncontracted portions; for the capillaries take a longitudinal course between the primitive fasciculi, and inosculate with one another by very frequent transverse branches, which complete the vascular web, and serve to attach its several parts to the primitive fasciculi which occupy its interstices. Lastly, all the specimens of bloodless tetanic muscle which 1 have seen, have presented this striking peculiarity:—that the pallor has not occupied the whole muscle, but patches of it, comprehending a portion of many primitive fasciculi, but not the entire length of any,—a fact tending to the same conclusion. What has now been advanced, seems to render it—as it appears to me—certain that the tetanic spasm has consisted in contractions engaging only parts of each primitive fasciculus at a time, and if so, of course changing their place, in order to bring every portion into use in its turn. Whether the primitive fasciculi alternate with one another in their contractions, is an obscure question, on which these observations shed no light. It may be urged, however, that, even granting this conclusion true, it is unsafe to argue concerning the healthy and moderate actions of an organ from the phenomena it presents when in a morbid state. But the weight of this objection is more apparent than real, for in a physiological point of view, the contractions of tetanus differ from those properly termed voluntary, only in being uncontrollable by the will and excessive in amount and duration. In violent tetanic spasm, I have myself ascertained that the peculiar sound of voluntary contraction is audible in the part, and identical with theVOLUNTARY MUSCLE IN THE LIVING BODY. 55 normal sound; and the appearance and feel of a muscle thus rigidly convulsed, can be perfectly simulated for a short period by an act of volition.* I therefore conclude, from the whole of the preceding remarks, combined with the facts and arguments advanced in my former paper, that the contraction of voluntary muscle is not a sustained act of the whole congeries of contractile elements composing it; but a rapid series of partial acts, in which all duly share, becoming by turns contracted and relaxed. King's College, London. April 6, 1841. The figure represents a portion of a primitive fasciculus, taken from among many others, from the complexus muscle, where it was ecchyniosed and had lost in a great measure its fibrous appearance. At (a) a fusiform contracted portion, with the striee remarkably close. On either hand the sarcous elements are much stretched (6), or even entirely disarranged (c, c, c), while at (cZ) there is a transverse rupture within the sarcolemma, and at (e) this sheath itself has given way. * I yesterday, in company with my friend, Professor Todd, discovered the same appearances of partial contractions in the recti muscles of the abdomen, ruptured by violent straining in diarrhoea. The voluntary muscles of the whole body were infested with the Trichina Spiralis, and were enfeebled.— August 2, 1841.Phil. Trans MDCCCXLI. Flat&Il. p. Si. WBowman, art.rwz.fal J. Basirc So.ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY, WITH OBSERVATIONS ON THE CIRCULATION THROUGH THAT GLAND. i59 ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF THE M ALP I GUI AN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY, WITH OBSERVATIONS ON THE CIRCULATION THROUGH THAT GLAND. By W. Bowman, F.R.S., Assistant Surgeon to the Kings College Hospital, and Demonstrator of Anatomy in King's College, London. Received February 14,—Read February 17, 1842. These remarkable bodies have been an object of much interest since their discovery by the great anatomist whose name they bear. Malpighi found they could be injected with great facility from the arteries, and he imagined them to be glands, in which the urine is elaborated from the blood. He seems also to have been of opinion that in them the uriniferous tubes take their rise.* Etjysch examined them with great care, and preserved specimens in his museum in which he believed that he had shown, by injection, that in them the arteries are continuous with the tubes.-)- This was the principal ground for the famous, but now exploded, theory of the existence of exhalant arteries with open mouths, which in the secreting glands opened directly into the excretory canals. It is probable that this accurate observer mistook the efferent vessel of the Malpighian body for a uriniferous tube, for the efferent vessels of those Malpighian bodies that lie near the medullary part of the kidney, take the same course as the tubes, and are often large enough to be readily mistaken for them. The statement, however, of Euysch and others^ that the tubes may be * See bis chapter " de internis glandulis renalibus, earumque continuatione cum vasis," a work not less conspicuous for the sterling accuracy of its observations than for the sagacity displayed in the reasonings based on them. f " Quarum (gland. Malpigh.) nonnullse hie dissolute, in ductus Bellinos degenerant."—Rutschius, Thesaurus Anat. x. No. 86. " Corpuscnla rotunda et glandiformia in totum sunt dissoluta et extricata. Ductus qui dicuntur Bellini, in totum quoque repleti sunt propter repletionem arteriolarum."—Ibid., No. 149. % Baenardus Albinus, after injecting tbe Malpighian bodies from the arteries, " vasa urinae exinde prodeuntia eodem colore farta beatus conspexit."—Albinus, p. 63, 64. Vide Schumlanskti Dissert Inaug. Anatomicam de renam structure. Argentorati, 1782, p. 69. I ?60 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF injected from the arteries, is true, though in a different sense from that in which they understood it. Schumlansky,* some years afterwards, entertained more complete views of the connection between these bodies and the uriniferous tubes, and he has even given an ideal diagram of this connection, which shows that he had a very clear con- ception of the fact. From a considerable error, however, in the proportion of these bodies to the tubes (represented in his figure), it has been suggested that his descrip- tion could not have been drawn from nature; a censure that seems to have been little merited. HuscHKEf and MulleeJ are the only modern anatomists who have entered at length into this question, and they both deny that there is any connection between the Malpighian bodies and the uriniferous ducts. The assertions of Muller, in par- ticular, are so positive, and are reiterated in so pointed a manner, that nothing but the most clear demonstration of their erroneous nature would have induced me to uphold an opposite opinion.^ I was led to the examination of these bodies in the course of an inquiry into the , ultimate structure of the true glands, in which I have been engaged for the last two years.|| I had frequently injected them from the arter}^ but had never inspected them under high powers of the microscope, until they arrested my atten- tion while examining the structure of the uriniferous tubes. These tubes consist of an external tunic of transparent homogeneous tissue (which I have termed the basement membrane), lined by epithelium. The Malpighian bodies I saw to be a rounded mass of minute vessels invested by a cyst or capsule^" of precisely similar appearance to the basement membrane of the tubes. Seeing these similar tissues in such close proximity, it was not easy to resist the conviction that the capsule was the basement membrane of the tubes expanded over the vessels, but, after many trials, I could not at that time succeed in gaining an unequivocal view of their continuity. All that I could accomplish was to perceive here and * SCHUMLANSKY, 0J3. cit. t Hcjschke Ueber die Textur der Nieren. Isis, 1828, p. 561. X Joh. Muller, de Glandularum secementium structura, penitiori. Lipsias, 1830, lib. x. § Huschke says (quoted by Muller), "These corpuscles (Malpighian bodies) are without any connection with the uriniferous ducts. For these most distinctly terminate by free blind extremities, while the Malpighian bodies, everywhere scattered in the interstices of the tortuous uriniferous ducts, are only connected with the blood-vessels."-—Muller, loc. cit., p. 87. Muller says, "Attamen certissimum est, ex vasis sanguiferis, ductus uriniferos plane nunquam usquam repleri, massamque injectam ne quidem laceratione in tubulos uriniferos prorumpere," op. cit., p. 98. " Fines ductuum uriniferorum in corpora Malpighiana desinere, certissime falsa assertio est," p. 95. "Falsissiina est opinio de connexu ullo quopiam inter corpora Malpighiana sanguifera, et ductuum uriniferorum fines," p. 95. And other passages equally strong might be quoted. || Art. "Mucous Membrane," 'Cyc. Anat.'—W.B. •([ First particularly pointed out by Muller, who conceives it to be perfectly closed, except at one point where perforated by the vessels.THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OP THE KIDNEY. Gl there an ambiguous approach to such an arrangement, sufficient to make it appear probable. I should perhaps have relinquished the idea thus presented to my mind, had not accident again drawn me to it. Having, during last summer, been made acquainted, through the kindness of Dr. Milne Edwards, with a new method of injection employed with great success by M. Doyere,"* of Paris, I injected some kidneys through the artery by this method, in order to notice the nature of the vascular ramifications in the Malpighian bodies. I not only found what I sought, but the clearest evidence that the capsule which invests them is, in truth, the basement membrane of the uriniferous tube expanded over the tuft of vessels. The injected material had, in many instances, burst through the tuft, and, being extravasated into the capsule, had passed off along the tube. I have since made numerous injections of the human kidney, and of that of many of the lower animals, and in all, without exception, have met with the same disposition. I have also repeated, with better success than before, the examination of thin slices of the recent organ with high powers of the microscope, and in this manner have fully corroborated the evidence furnished by injections. This mode of examination has likewise led to the interesting discovery of ciliary motion within the orifice of the tube. According to my own observations, the circulation through the kidney may be stated to be as follows :—All the blood of the renal artery (with the exception of a small quantity distributed to the capsule, surrounding fat, and the coats of the larger vessels) enters the capillary tufts of the Malpighian bodies ; thence it passes into the capillary plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes, and it finally leaves the organ through the branches of the renal vein. Following it in this course, I shall now endeavour to describe the vascular apparatus, and the nature of its connection with the tubes. With the inconsiderable exceptions just mentioned, the terminal twigs of the artery correspond in number with the Malpighian bodies. Arrived here,t the twig perforates the capsule, and, dilating, suddenly breaks up into two, three, four, or even eight branches, which diverge in all directions like petals from the stalk of a flower, and usually run, in a more or less tortuous manner, subdividing again once or twice as they advance, over the surface of the ball they are about to form. The vessels * This consists of two fluids which mingle in the small vessels, and cause a precipitation there. The best fluids are saturated solutions of bichromate of potass and of acetate of lead. They are injected in succession through the same vessel, whence the method is termed that by double injection. Kbause published an account of it two years ago, but M. Doyere appears to have arrived at it after a laborious trial of numerous solutions. Both deserve the thanks of anatomists for so valuable an addition to the means of investigation. f As the mode of subdivision of this artery in the interior of the organ is well known, I have omitted to describe it. Its branches never anastomose. It almost invariably happens that the twigs ending in the Malpighian bodies are of considerable length, but occasionally (as in fig. 8) two bodies are sessile on very short twigs of a single branch.MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF resulting from these subdivisions are capillary in size, and consist of a simple, homogeneous, and transparent membrane. They dip into its interior at different points, and, after further twisting, reunite into a single small vessel, which varies in its size, being generally smaller, but in some situations larger, than the terminal twig of the artery. This vessel emerges between two of the primary divisions of the terminal twig of the artery, perforating the capsule close to that vessel, and, like it, adhering to this membrane as it passes through. It then enters the capillary plexus which surrounds the tortuous uriniferous tubes.* The tuft of vessels, thus formed, is a compact ball, the several parts of which are held together solely by their mutual interlacement, for there is no other tissue admitted into the capsule besides blood-vessels. It is subdivided into as many lobes as there are primary branches of the terminal twig or afferent vessel, and these lobes do not communicate, except at the root of the tuft. There are, therefore, deep clefts between them., which open when the lobes are not greatly distended with injection or blood. The surface of the tuft is everywhere unattached and free, and continuous with the opposed surfaces of the lobes. The whole circumference of every vessel composing the tuft, is also free, and lies loose in the cavity of the capsule. These circumstances cannot be seen in specimens gorged with injection, but only by careful examination of recent specimens with a power of 200 or 300 diameters. The vessels are so perfectly bare, that in no other situation in the body do the capillaries admit of being so satisfactorily studied. It is only where the tuft is large, as in Man and in the Horse, that its lobulated character can be always discerned. When the number of primary subdivisions of the afferent vessel is smaller, the detection of lobes is less easy. They may often be seen, however, in the Frog. In Birds and Eeptiles the afferent vessel seldom divides, but dilates, instead, into a pouch-like cavity, which, after taking two or three coils, contracts again, and becomes the efferent vessel. Here of course there are no lobes; but the surface of the whole dilated part is free. The basement membrane of the uriniferous tube, expanded over the Malpighian tuft to form its capsule, is a simple, homogeneous, and perfectly transparent membrane, in which no structure can be discovered. It is perforated, as before stated, by the afferent and efferent vessels, and is certainly not reflected over them. They are united to it at their point of transit, but in what precise manner I have not been able to determine. Opposite to this point is the orifice of the tube, the cavity of which is continuous with that of the capsule, generally by a constricted neck. I have specimens prepared with the double injection showing this continuity in Mammalia, Birds, Reptiles and Fish; and, in Mammalia and Eeptiles, I have obtained the still more * " Cseterum glomeruli ulterior conformatio in praastantissimis quamvis injectionibus non facile extricari potest. Videor tamen observasse arteriolam, quas glomerulo accedit, cirri adinstar dividi, unde tortuosa vascula oriuntur, quae ansis secum arete connectuntur et recurrunt. Sed hoc certum est, glomerulos libere in vesiculis contineri, nee ullibi, nisi uno in puncto, cum vesiculis cohasrere."—Muller, loc. cit., p. 101.63 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. satisfactory proof afforded by a clear view of the whole of the textures magnified 300 diameters. As the Malpighian bodies are placed in every possible direction, it often happens that a thin section, parallel to the neck of the tube, cannot at once be obtained ; but with perseverance this may always be done. The capsule is then seen to pass off into the basement membrane of the tube, as the body of a Florence flask into its neck. The basement membrane of the tube is lined by a nucleated epithelium of a finely-granular opaque aspect, while the neck of the tube and its orifice become abruptly covered with a layer of cells much more transparent, and clothed with vibratile cilia. The epithelium is continued in many cases over the whole inner surface of the capsule ; in other instances I have found it impossible to detect the slightest appearance of it over more than a third of the capsule. When fairly within the capsule, the cilia cease, and the epithelium beyond is of excessive delicacy and translucence. Its particles are seldom nucleated, and appear liable to swell by the addition of the water added to the specimen. They frequently fill up the space between the capsule and tuft, and touching the latter, may seem to be united to it. The lines of their mutual contact may then wear the aspect of a highly delicate areolar tissue, connecting the capsule with the tuft. The cavity existing in the natural state between the epithelium and the tuft is filled by fluid, in which the vessels are bathed, and which is continually being impelled along the tube by the lashing movement of the cilia. In the Frog, where alone I have as yet been able to see these wonderful organs in motion, they were longer than those from other parts of that animal, and extremely active. The tubes on issuing from the Malpighian bodies, invariably become greatly contorted. I have on one occasion seen two of them unite, and from their dichotomous mode of division, when traced up from the pelvis, there can be little doubt that this is constantly their disposition. I have never, in all my examinations, met with any appearance of an inosculation between different tubules. The tortuous tubes unite again and again in twos, and finally, under the name of pyramids of Fereein, become straight, and converge towards the pelvis, forming the medullary cones or pyramids of Malpigiii. The Malpighian bodies are imbedded in a kind of nidus formed among these convolutions, and are touched on all sides by the surrounding tubes. As the emergence of the tube from the Malpighian body can be seen only at one point, it is not wonderful that it should have been overlooked, and that the demonstration should have seemed clear, that the Malpighian bodies merely lie among the tubes, and have no connection with them. The blood, leaving the Malpighian tufts, is conveyed by their efferent vessels to the great renal reservoir, the capillary plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes. This, in its general arrangement, resembles that investing the tubes of the testis. The vessels lie in the interstices of the tubes, and everywhere anastomose freely, so that throughout the whole organ they constitute one continuous network, lying on the outside of the tubes, in contact with the basement membrane. This64 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF plexus is interposed between the efferent vessels of the Malpigliian bodies and the veins. The efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies are always solitary and never inosculate with one another : each one is an isolated channel between its Malpighian tuft, and the plexus surrounding the tubes. They are formed by the union of the capillary vessels of the tuft, and emerge from its interior in the manner already explained. After a course of variable length they open into the plexus. Their size is various. In general, they are smaller than the terminal twig of the artery, and scarcely, if at all, larger than the vessels of the plexus into which they discharge themselves. But where the Malpighian tuft is large, the efferent vessel is usually large also, and divides into branches before entering the plexus. This is eminently the case with those situated near the base of the medullary cones, where the medullary and cortical portions of the organ seem to blend. The efferent vessels from these large Malpighian bodies are often three or four times the diameter of those of the plexus, and take a course towards the pelvis of the kidney between the uriniferous tubes. They were formerly mistaken for tubes. They branch again and again in the manner of arteries, and form the plexus with long meshes which invests this^ part of the tubes. Some of the veins springing from this plexus form i lie well-known network on the nipple-shaped extremities of the cones, around the orifices of the tubes, and thence take, with the remainder, a backward course, like- wise parallel to the tubes, to empty themselves into venous branches that lie about the bases of the cones. These also, when injected, have been mistaken for tubes. The other venous radicles are dispersed at about equal distances throughout the cortex of the kidney, and each receives the blood on all sides from the plexus surrounding the convoluted tubes. When these venous radicles are congested, or injected, they mark out the surface of the cortical substance into lobules not very unlike those of the lobules of the liver. On the Horse's kidney, especially, this may be often well seen. Each lobule contains many tortuous ducts with their capillaries, but the convolutions of any one duct are not confined to a single lobule. These radicles unite in an irregularly arborescent figure, anastomose and form the several branches of the renal vein. Those on the surface, especially of the human kidnej^, have a tendency to converge towards a central vessel, which then dips into the interior, and runs, like the rest, towards the hilus. Thus are formed the stellated vessels of anatomists, often conspicuous in diseased specimens. Between the sprawling arms of these Stellas the convoluted tubes, with their plexus, come up to the surface (Plate IV., fig. 11), but the Malpighian bodies are rarely, if ever, visible quite on the surface. They are always covered in by convolutions of the tubes. The veins from the capsule and surrounding fat join the renal vein in some part of its course. It is probable that the capillaries of the vasa vasorum, within the substance of the organ, pour their blood into the capillary plexus surrounding the65 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. tubes, as those of the hepatic artery do into the portal-hepatic plexus of the lobules of the liver. Thus there are in the kidney two perfectly distinct systems of capillary vessels, through both of which the blood passes in its course from the arteries into the veins : the 1st, that inserted into the dilated extremities of the uriniferous tubes, and in immediate connection with the arteries; the 2nd, that enveloping the convolutions of the tubes, and communicating directly with the veins. The efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies, that carry the blood between these two systems, may collectively be termed the portal system of the kidney. To these distinct capillary systems, I am inclined to attribute distinct parts of the function of the organ; and their importance seems to warrant a few words, in further explanation of their anatomical differences. The former, which may be styled the Malpighian capillary system, is made up of as many parts as there are Malpighian bodies. These parts are entirely isolated from one another • and, as there is no inosculation between the arterial branches supplying them, the blood enters each in a direct stream from the main trunk. This capillary system is also highly remarkable, indeed stands alone among similar structures, in being bare. The secreting tubes of the kidney, like those of all other glands, are, strictly speaking, an involution of the outer tegument of the frame: their interior is, in one sense, the outside of the body: their walls intervene between the vessels and the exterior, and, as it were, cover them in. But here is a tuft of capillaries extruded through the wall of the tube, and lodged in a dilatation of its cavity, uncovered by any structure. Bare indeed, yet screened from injury in its remote cell, with infinite care and skill! Each separate part, also, of this system, has but one afferent and one efferent channel, and both of these are exceedingly small, compared with the united capacity of the capillary tuft. The artery in dividing, dilates: then follow branches which often exceed it in size, and which gradually break up into the finest. The efferent vessel does not usually even equal the afferent, and in size is often itself a capillary. Hence must arise a greater retardation of the blood in the tuft, than occurs probably in any other part of the vascular system; a delay that must be increased by the tortuosity of the channels to be traversed. The other system of capillaries, or that surrounding the uriniferous tubes, corresponds, in every important respect, with that investing the secreting canals of other glands. It is well known to anatomists, and therefore does not require to be described at any length. Its vessels anastomose with the utmost freedom on every side, and lie on the deep surface of the membrane that furnishes the secretion. I have applied the term " portal system of the kidney" to the series of vessels connecting these two, on account of the close analogy it seems to bear to the vena porta. The precise quality of the blood it carries may be doubtful, but in distribution KMR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF G6 it is similar. It intervenes between two capillary networks, the first of which answers to that in which the vena porta originates, and the second to that in which the vena porta terminates. The obvious difference lies in its several parts not uniting into a single trunk, to subdivide afterwards ; but this circumstance seems to admit of an easy explanation. A trunk is formed in the great portal circulation, for the convenience of transport, most of the capillaries which supply it lying at a distance from the liver. Some, however, viz., those drawn from the hepatic artery, either enter the portal-hepatic plexus directly (as Muller thinks, and as my preparations certainly show some of them to do), or else join the minuter twigs of the portal vein, according to the opinion of Kiernan. Now, in the kidney, the vessels issuing from the Malpighian tufts are disseminated pretty equally throughout the plexus surrounding the tubes (the one into which they have to discharge themselves), and they therefore enter it at all points at once, without uniting. In the medullary cones, however, where there is a capillary plexus to be supplied with blood, but no Malpighian bodies nearer than the base of the cones, the conditions which oblige the formation of a portal venous trunk begin to operate; the two capillary systems it serves to connect are at some distance apart. Here, consequently, the Malpighian bodies are generally larger, their efferent vessels more capacious, and branched after the manner of an artery. Each one of these efferent vessels is truly a portal vein in miniature. The capillary plexus surrounding the tubes differs, therefore, from that of other glands, and agrees with that of the liver, in its receiving blood that has previously traversed another system of capillary vessels. That other system is a peculiar one, as already pointed out, and cannot be likened closely to that which furnishes the portal vein of the liver. The preceding account of the existence of a true portal system in the kidney of the higher tribes of Vertebrata was already written, when an opportunity presented itself of inspecting the distribution of the vessels in one of those lower animals, in which, besides the renal artery, the kidney is furnished with a portal vein, derived from the hinder part of the body. The presence of such a vein, though denied by Meckel, was well established by Nicolai, whose statements have been confirmed by others; but I am not aware that any anatomist has explained its) remarkable distribution, and its connection with the other vessels.* I shall, therefore, introduce a summary account of my examination of the kidney of the Boa Constrictor (the animal in question), which may be regarded as a model of this variety; and I think it will be found not only to show the correctness of the analogy I have drawn between the efferent vessels of Malpighian bodies and a portal system, but to place in a * Hoschkk, who seems to have entered into the greatest detail on this subject, states that he was unable to ascertain in the Serpent's kidney, whether the twigs of the artery were distributed to the Malpighian bodies or not. In the Frog, however, he describes the Malpighian bodies as appended to the terminal twigs of the artery.—'Isis,' 1828, p. 566-7.67 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. clearer light the other striking resemblances between the circulation of the liver and kidney. The kidney of the Boa, being composed of isolated lobes, of a compressed reniform shape, displays all the points of its structure in peculiar simplicity and beauty. At what may be termed the hilus of each lobe, the branches of the vena porta and duct separate from those of the renal artery and emulgent vein ; the two former spreading side by side, in a fan-like form, over the opposite surfaces of the lobe, while the two latter enter its substance, and radiate together iu a plane midway between these surfaces. The lobe is made up of the ramifications of these four sets of vessels, in the following mode : Each duct, as it runs over the surface, sends down a series of branches which penetrate in a pretty direct manner towards the central plane. Arrived there, they curl back, and take a more or less retrograde course towards the surface, and finally, becoming more convoluted, terminate in the Malpighian bodies, which are all situated in a layer at some distance within the lobe, parallel to the central plane, and nearer to it than to the surface. The ducts never anastomose. The artery subdivides into extremely minute twigs, no larger than capillaries, which diverge on either hand, and enter the Malpighian bodies. The efferent vessels are of the same size as the afferent, and on emerging take a direct course to the surface of the lobe, and join the branches of the vena porta there spread out. The branches of the portal vein on the surface, send inwards a very numerous series of twigs of nearly uniform capacity, and only a little larger than the vessels of the capillary plexus, in which they almost immediately terminate. This is the plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes. It extends from the surface to the central plane of the lobe, and there ends in the branches of the emulgent vein. ' Thus the efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies are radicles of the portal vein, and, through the portal vein, empty themselves, as in the higher tribes, into the plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes. The only real difference between this form of kidney and that of Mammalia, is, that there is here a vessel bringing blood that has already passed through the capillaries of distant parts, to be added to that coming from the Malpighian bodies, and to circulate, with it, through the plexus surrounding the tubes. The efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies run up to the surface in order to throw their blood through the whole extent of the capillary plexus ; which they would fail to do, if they entered it in any other part. I have described the renal artery as being spent upon the Malpighian bodies ; but in the hilus of the lobe it gives off, as in the higher animals, a few slender twigs to the coats of the excretory ducts and of the larger vessels. The capillaries of these twigs are easily seen, and, in all probability, discharge themselves into the branches of the portal vein. The circulation through this form of kidney, may be aptly compared with that through the liver, as described by Mr. Kieknan in his invaluable paper on that gland. The plexus surrounding the tubes corresponds with the portal-hepatic plexus, which, k 2MR. BOWMAN" ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF 68 in the lobules of the liver, invests the terminal portions of the bile-ducts. Both these plexuses are supplied with blood by a portal vein, derived chiefly from the capillaries of distant organs, but in part from those of the artery of the respective organs themselves. The only difference seems to be, that, while, in the liver, the branches of the artery are entirely given to the larger blood-vessels, ducts, &c, in the kidney, a few only are so distributed, the greater number going through the Malpighian bodies, to perform an important and peculiar function. In both glands, however, all the blood of the artery eventually joins that of the portal vein. The emulgent vein of the kidney answers to the hepatic vein of the liver. The comparison between the hepatic and renal portal circulation may be thus drawn in more general terms. The portal system of the liver has a double source, one extraneous, the other in the organ itself: so, the portal system of the kidney, in the lower tribes, has a two-fold origin, one extraneous, the other in the organ itself. In both cases the extraneous source is the principal one, and the artery furnishing the internal source is very small. But in the kidney of the higher tribes, the portal system has only an internal source, and the artery supplying it is proportionally large. The above account appears to me to comprise whatever is most important in the anatomy of the blood-vessels and ducts of the kidney. My object in it has been to convey an idea of the physiological anatomy of the gland, and I have therefore omitted to mention (except where it suited my purpose) those rougher characters of the kidne}^ in the various classes, that result from varieties in the mode of aggregation of its several constituent parts. The principal of these are well known, and it would have diverted attention too much to delineate others, especially as such peculiarities are of trifling moment. The accompanying illustrations I have endeavoured to execute with scrupulous fidelity after nature. The injected specimens from which several of them are taken, are, with numerous others, in my possession, and those that can be examined only in a recent state, may usually be prepared with facility. I shall now state the results of my injections of the kidney of Man and the higher animals by the arteries, veins, and ducts, in order to show their accordance with the view I have given of the nature of the Malpighian bodies, and of the vascular apparatus of the organ. This may be also desirable for purposes of comparison with the statements of other anatomists (which, to avoid prolixity, I have not referred to in detail); and it will, besides, give a full opportunity of testing the correctness of my statements, to those inquirers who may be disposed to do so.* * It is worthy of notice, as showing both the difficulty of the subject and the uncertain state of our knowledge up to the present time, that Berres, the distinguished Professor of Vienna, in his recently published work on microscopical anatomy, maintains the existence of a direct inosculation of the uriniferous tubes with the capillary plexus surrounding them. After the description already given, I need hardly say, that this view seems to me, for many reasons, altogether untenable.THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. 69 By the Arteries, the Malpighian Tufts can be injected with great facility, and also, with less freedom, the Capillaries surrounding the uriniferous tubes. The Tubes also may be injected, by extravasation from the Malpighian tufts. The course of the injection to the tufts is direct and free. The arterial tree is of small capacity, and there is seldom so much blood in it after death as to impede the flow of the artificial fluid. My preparations show this tree injected in various degrees, by the double fluid (Plate IV., figs. 1 to 14). In some, the tufts are full, the afferent and the efferent vessels are both seen, as well as the communication of the latter with the plexus surrounding the tubes (figs. 2, 4, 5, 6). In others, the vessels of the tuft have given way under the pressure of the fluid, which has then escaped into the capsule and often into the tube also* (figs. 4, 9, 10, &c). Sometimes the injection has passed freely and without extravasation through only a portion of the Malpighian tuft, leaving the rest filled with blood, which could not have happened to an unbranched coil of vessel, as this tuft is by some described.t In these, the afferent and the efferent vessels are both injected, but only a fragment of the tuft (fig. 2). Sometimes the injected fluid has burst out immediately on entering the first branches of the tuft: it has then insinuated itself between the ball of vessels and the capsule, and has run off along the tube. In this case the tuft is left uninjected and containing blood, and it becomes enveloped in a film of injection (fig. 9). Sometimes one side only of the tuft is injected at the moment when extravasation occurs, sometimes the whole, and likewise the efferent vessel (figs. 3, 4). In general, the capsule, when thus filled with extravasated injection, has a perfectly smooth external surface, but when the tuft within is also much distended, this may, in the dried and somewhat collapsed specimen, give to the outer surface of the capsule an uneven appearance like that of the tuft itself, The capsule, when distended, is seen in many instances to bulge and form a prominent circle round the point at which the vessels enter and emerge. The vessels then appear to lie in a small pit or fissure before becoming connected with the tuft (fig 9). Lastly, it occasionally happens that though extravasation has occurred into the capsule, the fluid has not spread itself over the whole surface of the tuft, and yet has passed off along the tube (figs. 3, 10 m m). As the tubes in the human kidney usually become very tortuous immediately on leaving the Malpighian bodies, the * I have great pleasure in stating that my friend Mr. Tomes, three years ago, during his examination of numerous kidneys that he had injected, saw two or three examples of this escape of the injection along the tube; of one of which he has preserved a rough outline. Not being able to see it again he gave up the search. I have no doubt that he communicated this fact to me in conversation at the time, though I cannot now recollect his doing so. The first drawing T made of the tube expanded over the tuft, I find dated February 17, 1841; about which time my interest in the subject was first excited. t Of course this never occurs in Birds, where the Malpighian vessel is a coiled ampulla.70 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF injection running off along them may often wear the appearance of an irregular extravasated mass, and so its real nature escape observation"" (fig. 9). When size and vermilion are employed, this is very apt to occur,t and especially when the specimen injected is not fresh ; for the epithelium soon loses its adhesion to the basement tissue of the tube, and, falling into the cavity, mingles with the stream of injection, and * During the course of the researches detailed in this paper, I have embraced whatever opportunities presented themselves of studying the morbid conditions of the human kidney, and especially those usually known as the stages of Bright's disease. It would obviously have been little conducive to my present purpose to have entered here upon a general description of the results to which my enquiries on this interesting subject have led me, but I cannot forbear noticing one fact of considerable importance, which will both illustrate and be illustrated by the preceding account of the normal anatomy of the gland. It is well known that blood is often passed with the urine during the course of the disease, especially at the earlier periods of it, when many circumstances contribute to prove that the kidneys are in a state of sanguineous turgescence. How does this blood escape into the ducts of the gland ? The organ examined at this time presents on its surface and throughout its cortical substance, scattered red dpts, of somewhat irregular shape, not accurately rounded, and generally as large as pins' heads, that is, very many times larger than the Malpighian bodies. These spots are very visible on the surface, where, as I have before stated (p. 66), no Malpighian bodies exist. They have been nevertheless described by several recent writers (not without contention for the honour of the discovery) as Malpighian bodies enlarged from congestion. How a Malpighian tuft, such as I have described it, could attain so prodigious a bulk, prodigious compared with its natural size, it would not be easy to explain. It is true that, if examined with a lens, the blood forming these spots is found to be arranged in convoluted lines, but these convolutions are not the dilated vessels of the tuft. They are nothing less than the convolutions of a tube filled with blood, that has burst into it from the gorged Malpighian tuft at its extremity. This is at once evident to a person familiar with the appearance of the same tubes when filled with injection in a similar manner; and the figure, which I have taken frqm a healthy kidney so injected (fig. 11), might serve as an exact representation of one of these spots, as seen on the surface of the diseased organ. The more or less perfect plug, thus often formed in the tubes, is the occasion of those dilatations of the tubes and Malpighian capsules, which are to be met with in the more advanced stages of the disease. Thus is to be explained the somewhat loose statement, that the disease consists essentially in enlargement of the Malpighian bodies. Though I have examined with great care many kidneys at all stages of the complaint, I have never seen, in any one instance, a clearly dilated condition of the Malpighian tuft of vessels. On the contrary, my friend, Mr. Busk, an excellent observer, has specimens which undoubtedly prove these tufts not to be dilated in the first stage, and I possess injected specimens showing them at all stages, but never above their natural size. I am far from implying, however, that these bodies are unconcerned in the train of morbid phenomena. They unquestionably are so, and even necessarily must be so, from their anatomical structure, but in what manner I shall not at present attempt to show. f My friend, Mr. Qubkett, of the College of Surgeons, possesses many very excellent specimens of injected kidneys, in many of which he has been able to detect the tube passing from the Malpighian body, since his attention was directed to this arrangement. He also showed me a very beautiful injection of the Malpighian bodies in the Horse, sent over to the Microscopical Society of London by Prof. Hyetl of Prague. In one corner of this we found a similar extravasation, though the disposition in question seems to have eluded the attention of that excellent anatomist. I am indebted to Mr. Quekett for some finely injected specimens of a Boa's kidney, from one of which fig. 14 is taken.71 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. renders its course obscure. This lining of the tubules with a pavement of epithelium occasions a striking appearance in perfectly fresh specimens, when filled with double injection. This penetrating material insinuates itself into the interstices of the epithelial particles, and thus marks them out as a kind of pattern on the wall of the tube. When extravasation does not take place in the Malpighian bodies, more or less of the network surrounding the tubes is not unfrequently injected. The most perfect specimens of injected Malpighian tufts are then obtained ; but the veins themselves are seldom well filled through the arteries, for not only is the way to them circuitous, and broken up into a thousand separate avenues (the Malpighian tufts), but it is usually loaded with blood. When injection is driven into any one branch of the renal artery, the several states now detailed are seen only in the parts to which that branch is distributed. There is no anastomosis between the branches in the interior of the gland. It sometimes happens that in injections by the artery, extravasation is found to take place into the interstices of the tubes, with or without escape into the Malpighian capsules and tubes. This may arise from rupture either of the arterial tree, before reaching the Malpighian bodies (which is uncommon, where great force is not employed), or of the efferent vessels of those bodies, or of the network of the tubes, injected through them. It may also occur from rupture of a tube, which has been itself filled by the rupture of a Malpighian tuft. By the Veins, the Capillaries surrounding the tubes may be injected, but neither the Malpighian bodies, nor the arteries, nor, without extravasation, the tubes. The capillaries of the uriniferous tubes are of great aggregate capacity, and commonly contain much blood. When injection is pushed into the vein the whole organ instantly swells; so rapidly do these dilatable and freely inosculating channels receive the fluid impelled into them. By the numerous communications of the capillaries with the veins, it is at once dispersed in every direction, and enters the capillaries by innumerable avenues. But towards the Malpighian bodies, there is no opening from this capillary network at all corresponding in magnitude or freedom to that on the side of the veins. In fact, the only points by which it can discharge itself are the efferent vessels. of the Malpighian bodies, which are comparatively few in number, only capillary in size, and quite disconnected with one another, except through the plexus itself. Add to this, that the Malpighian tuft to which they lead is a great obstacle to the passage of fluid, from the tortuosity of its minute vessels, and by their all having but one point to discharge themselves of the blood they already contain, viz., their afferent vessel. Thus to fluid driven through the kidney in a retrograde course, there is not only the general impediment offered by the aggregate capacity of the arteries being greatly inferior to that of the veins, but a72 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF vascular arrangement equivalent to a double valve. The capillaries of the tubes form a first great cul-de-sac, those of the Malpighian tufts a second, for these may both be described as great reservoirs, easily entered from the side of the arteries, but discharging themselves with great difficulty back again, or towards the arterial tree. If it be now considered that the network of the tubes, or the former and far the greater of these reservoirs, almost always retains much blood after death, and that the Malpighian reservoir is never without a considerable quantity, it will not be difficult to comprehend, why injection thrown into the veins reaches not to the Malpighian bodies, however well it may seem to load the capillaries of the tubes; for all the blood must first pass through the difficult channels that have been spoken of, and this it never can do completely. I suppose that this view of the subject, which is nothing more than a statement of facts, will be deemed a sufficient explanation, and that it will not be regarded as necessary to imagine the existence of real valves, in any part of the course of these small blood-vessels. I have never met with any appearance that could lend credibility to such a supposition, which, if true, would present an unique structure in the vascular system. Extravasation from the veins will sometimes reach the tubes, in consequence of a structure which will presently be explained. By the Tubes, the Malpighian bodies cannot be injected, nor, without extravasation, either the plexus surrounding the tubes, or the veins. Many anatomists have taken extreme pains to inject the tubes from the [pelvis of the kidney, by means of the air-pump, but never has a single Malpighian body been thus filled. This, it has been said, is a conclusive proof that the Malpighian bodies are not placed at the extremities of the tubes. But I think that if the real structure and relation of these parts be duly considered, this constant result will be allowed to be in the strictest accordance with the account I have delivered, and even a necessary effect of the anatomical disposition of the parts. To those who are acquainted with the practical difficulties of the injection of the ducts of glands in general, and especially of those which are very tortuous, the following considerations on this subject will probably appear conclusive. Even of the testis (where the tubes are far thicker and stronger in their coats, and much more capacious than in the kidney), there are not ten specimens than can be pronounced at all full, in the museums of Europe; and there is no evidence that, even in the best of these, the injected material has reached the very extremities of the tubes. In the kidney, the tubes are exceedingly tortuous after leaving the Malpighian bodies, and only become straight, in most animals, in proceeding towards the excretory channel to discharge themselves. The way towards their orifices is so free, in a73 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. natural state, that their fluid contents exert no distending force upon their walls. Accordingly their walls are exceedingly feeble; the basement membrane on which their strength mainly depends, is very delicate and easily torn. They are therefore incapable of offering much resistance to a fluid impelled into them from the pelvis but burst readily, if it be forcibly urged. But were the coats ten times as tough as they really are, injection could not penetrate far into their convoluted portion, unless pushed with much force ; and this for two reasons :—1st. The fluid which the tubes already contain has no means of escape before the injection, since these canals end by blind extremities in the Malpighian bodies; and though these bodies are dilatations of them, yet they are already filled almost completely by the tuft of capillaries, and offer no capacious receptable for the fluid from the tubes. 2nd. The layer of epithelium (which usually forms about two-thirds of the thickness of every tube, the calibre being about one-third'") is, immediately after death, very prone to separate from the basement membrane which it lines, and to fall into and block up its narrow channel. Even if the epithelium remains in its place, the calibre of the tube is but small, and if it becomes detached, it opposes an effectual bar to the progress of the injection. By removing the pressure of the atmosphere from the outer surface of the tubes, these obstacles are occasionally in part overcome, so that even the tortuosities of the tubes are filled for a certain distance. But even so limited a success is rare, and in face of mechanical obstacles, such as above mentioned, to the onward current of the injection in the tubes, the force employed invariably sooner or later bursts their coats, ere their extremities have been reached. Extravasation from the tubes, as might be expected, fills their interstices, and the fluid may then issue by a rent at the hilus of the kidney. But it is remarkable how readily it enters the veins and absorbents from the ducts. This is undoubtedly by extravasation, and does not prove any continuity between them. The veins may be filled when the fluid has not penetrated in the tubes beyond the medullary cones, showing that the rupture must occur in connection with those cones, either at their apices or in their substance. By a thin transverse section of one of these cones, the ducts and blood-vessels of which they principally consist, are seen to be imbedded in a sort of matrix, apparently homogeneous, but probably having a cellular structure. This matrix keeps the tubes and vessels open by being united to their outer coat, whence results the dark colour, usually attributed to congestion, which these cones commonly present, as compared with the cortical part, where this matrix is less abundant. This is the structural condition which seems to me most easily to explain the remarkable facility with which injection, urged along the tubes, enters the veins. The smallest rupture of the matrix will crack across the minute vessels accompanying the tubes, and expose their open extremities to the entrance of the injection. If the force employed be very moderate and equable, extravasation does not occur, and the tubes alone are injected, often to * These proportions vary considerably. The basement membrane is so thin that it may be left out of the estimate. L74 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF the surface, but undue or ill-regulated pressure almost inevitably occasions it. Having once entered a small vein, through however small an opening, it soon diffuses itself through the veins, and the capillaries surrounding the tubes, rather than along the tubes, for the reasons above stated ; and, if the organ be then cut to pieces and examined, these vessels seemed filled, without extravasation; the tubes are also more or less filled with the same colour; and the two structures are so intricately interlaced as to wear the aspect, especially if dried, of one continuous network. The point of extravasation escapes observation, and hence the fallacy of imagining a continuity between the veins or their capillaries, and the tubes. Some distinguished anatomists have held that the tubes end in a plexiform manner, and have stated themselves to have unequivocally seen this arrangement in injected specimens. I am induced to believe this opinion to be founded on deceptive appearances; either such as that above mentioned, or that occasioned by the over- lapping of injected tubes. Others have considered the tubes to terminate in free blind extremities unconnected with the Malpighian bodies, and have likewise rested their opinion on the appearances of injected specimens, as well as on those of recent ones. 1 As the injection always stops short of the real extremities of the tubes (the Malpighian bodies), it must necessarily show apparent free extremities—and others may be produced by the section requisite for the examination of the part. As for the false appearances presented by recent specimens, they are obviously referable to the sudden bending down of a tube behind the part turned to the observer. In a mass composed of convolutions, many such must continually occur ; and their real nature may be easily determined by the use of a high power and varying focus. Other anatomists, aware of this last fallacy, and failing to find either a free inosculation of the tubes in the form of a plexus, or a termination of them in the Malpighian bodies, have rested in the conclusion that the curves of the convoluted part are the looped junctions of different tubes. It is obvious that this conclusion is a deduction drawn from the apparent absence of any other mode of termination, and must be relinquished now that the tubes are shown to end in the Malpighian bodies. The foregoing account has been drawn principally from my observations on the kidneys of Mammalia, but it is intended to embrace the chief points in the anatomy of the Malpighian bodies in all the Vertebrate tribes. In all these I have ascertained the Malpighian body to consist of the dilated extremity of the uriniferous tube, with a small mass of blood-vessels inserted into it. But in the several orders of animals there are various modifications that merit notice. The most considerable of these regard the size of the Malpighian bodies, in connection with which are others in the mode of division of the arterial twig. The following Table exhibits this variety in their size, in a few species, and subjoined to each measurement, is that of the tube soon after its emergence. It will be Been that the tubes differ far less than the Malpighian bodies.75 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. lable of the Diameter of Malpighian Bodies, and of the Tubes emerging from them in Fractions of an English Inch. Diameter of Malpighi an bodies. Diameter Maximum. Mean. Minimum. of tubes. IV f q n sty To T i 14 4 i ' 4 8 OJ "101 1 2 4 1 15 0 i 4 16 T"§"cf T~3'5 1 15 6 1 IT 0 0 tV sT> 1 9 0 1 3 12 1 i T~5"o 2"5o~ 2 5 0 6 8 0 TTif fovi 1T08 "2"6"'0 1 3 12 1 10 0 0 T?nf 2~0"8 TSO 1 15 0 1 4 16 1 2 2 0 1 2 5 5 1 3 12 1 7 7 0 Squirrel (Sciiirus vulgaris) 1 2 oT 1 7 7 0 Rabbit (Lepus Cuniculus) .... 1 15 6 1 6 2 5 1 2 0 S 1 6 0 0 1 5 5 1 7 0 1 9 0 1 4 16 1 4 3 0 1 tn . 1 6 0 0 u 7 0 0 1 2 4 0 1 4 8 0 1 2 3 0 1 4 0 0 1 5 4 0 1 5 4 0 1 2 5 0 1 2 0 7 The kidney of the Boa shows very beautifully the reason of the different size of the Malpighian bodies in different parts of the same gland observed in all animals ; and also one cause of the striking difference in their size in different animals, and especially in different sized animals of the same natural group. Its lobes are much thinner at their convex border, opposite the hilus, than elsewhere. The tubes are consequently much shorter there, and I have remarked that the Malpighian tufts are also much smaller. This correspondence between the size of the Malpighian bodies and the length of the tubes, throws much light on the function of the former. A further study of the varieties here displayed in the size of the Malpighian tufts seems highly desirable. Eeflecting on this remarkable structure of the Malpighian bodies, and on their singular connection with the tubes, I was led to speculate on their use. It occurred to me that as the tubes and their plexus of capillaries were probably, for reasons presently to be stated, the parts concerned in the secretion of that portion of the urine to which its characteristic properties are due (the urea, lithic acid, &c), the Malpighian bodies might be an apparatus destined to separate from the blood the watery portion. This view, on .further consideration, appears so consonant with facts, and with analogy, that I shall in a few words state to the Society the reasons that l 276 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF have induced me to adopt it. I am not unaware how obscure are the regions of hypothesis in physiology, and shall be most ready to renounce my opinion, if it be shown to be inconsistent with truth. In extent of surface, internal structure, and the nature of its vascular network, the membrane of the uriniferous tubes corresponds with that forming the secreting surface of other glands. Hence it seems certain that this membrane is the part specially concerned in eliminating from the blood the peculiar principles found in the urine. To establish this analogy, and the conclusion deduced from it, a few words will suffice. 1. The extent of surface obtained by the involutions of the membrane, will by most be regarded as, itself, sufficient proof. But, 2. Its internal structure is conclusive. Since epithelium has been found by Purkinje and Henle in such enormous quantities on the secreting surface of all true glands, its use cannot be considered doubtful. It never forms less than -§-§ths of the thickness of the secreting membrane, and in the liver it even seems to compose it entirely, for there I have searched in vain for a basement tissue, like that which supports the epithelium in other glands. As I have endeavoured to show in the forthcoming Number of the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy, the epithelium thus chiefly forming the substance of secreting membrane, differs in its general characters from other forms of this structure. Its nucleated particles are never clothed with cilia, and are not surrounded with a definite cell-membrane. They are more bulky, and appear from their refractive properties to contain more substance, their internal texture being very finely mottled, when seen by transmitted light. In these particulars, the epithelium of the kidney-tubes is eminently allied to the best-marked examples of glandular epithelium. 3. The capillary network, surrounding the uriniferous tubes, is the counterpart of that investing the tubes of the testis, allowance being made for the difference in the capacity of these canals in the two glands. It corresponds with that of all true glands in lying on the deep surface of the secreting membrane, and in its numerous vessels everywhere anastomosing freely with one another. These several points of identity may seem too obvious to be dwelt upon, but I have detailed them in order to show, that in all these respects, the Malpighian bodies differ from the secreting parts of true glands. 1. The Malpighian bodies comprise but a small part of the inner surface of the kidney, there being but one to each tortuous tube. 2. The epithelium immediately changes its characters, as the tube expands to embrace the tuft of vessels. From being opaque and minutely mottled, it becomes transparent, and assumes a definite outline. From being bald, it becomes covered with cilia (at least in reptiles, and probably in all classes); and, in many cases, it appears to cease entirely, a short way within the neck of the Malpighian capsule. 3. The blood-vessels instead of being on the deep surface of the membrane, pass through it, and form a tuft on its free surface. Instead of the free anastomosis elsewhere observed, neighbour- ing tufts never communicate, and even the branchlets of the same tuft remain quite isolated from one another.77 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. Thus the Malpighian bodies are as unlike, as the tubes passing from them are like, the membrane, which, in other glands, secerns its several characteristic products from the blood. To these bodies, therefore, some other and distinct function is with the highest probability to be attributed. When the Malpighian bodies were considered merely as convoluted vessels without any connection with the uriniferous tubes, no other office could be assigned them, than that of delaying the blood in its course to the capillaries of the tubes, and the object of this it was impossible to ascertain. Now, however, that it is proved that each one is situated at the remotest extremity of a tube, and that the tufts of vessels are a distinct system of capillaries inserted into the interior of the tube, surrounded by a capsule, formed by its membrane and closed everywhere except at the orifice of the tube, it is evident that conjectures on their use may be framed with greater plausibility. The peculiar arrangement of the vessels in the Malpighian tufts is clearly designed to produce a retardation in the flow of the blood through them. And the insertion of the tuft into the extremity of the tube, is a plain indication that this delay is subservient in a direct manner to some part of the secretive process. It now becomes interesting to inquire, in what respect the secretion of the kidney differs from that of all other glands, that so anomalous an apparatus should be appended to its secerning tubes ? The difference seems obviously to lie in the quantity of aqueous particles contained in it; for how peculiar soever to the kidney the approximate principles of the urine may be, they are not more so than those of other glands to the organs which furnish them. This abundance of water is apparently intended to serve chiefly as a menstruum for the proximate principles and salts which this secretion contains, and which, speaking generally, are far less soluble than those of any other animal product. This is so true, that it is common for healthy urine to deposit some part of its dissolved contents on cooling. It may seem that an exception to this exists in the solid urine of some reptiles; but this expression merely describes the urine as it is found in the cloaca and larger excretory channels. The secretion is brought from the tubules of the gland in a fluid state, and only becomes solid by the re-absorption of its aqueous portion after it has traversed the tortuous canals wherein it was formed, and been placed in a condition to be readily expelled from the system. The subordination of the aqueous part to the purpose of eliminating the more essential elements of the secretion from the secerning tubules of the gland, is therefore here placed in a clear light. If this view of the share taken by the water be correct, we must suppose that fluid to be separated either at every point of the secreting surface, along with the proximate principles, as has hitherto been imagined, or else in such a situation that it may at once freely irrigate the whole extent of the secerning membrane. Analogy lends no countenance to the former supposition, while to the latter, the singular78 MR. BOWMAN ON" THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF position, and all the details of the structure of the Malpighian bodies, give strong credibility. It would indeed be difficult to conceive a disposition of parts more calculated to favour the escape of water from the blood, than that of the Malpighian body. A large artery breaks up in a very direct manner into a number of minute branches, each of which suddenly opens into an assemblage of vessels of far greater aggregate capacity than itself, and from which there is but one narrow exit. Hence must arise a very abrupt retardation in the velocity of the current of blood. The vessels in which this delay occurs are uncovered by any structure. They lie bare in a cell from which there is but one outlet, the orifice of the tube. This orifice is encircled by cilia, in active motion, directing a current towards the tube. These exquisite organs must not only serve to carry forward the fluid already in the cell, and in which the vascular tuft is bathed, but must tend to remove pressure from the free surface of the vessels, and so to encourage the escape of their more fluid contents. Why is so wonderful an apparatus placed at the extremity of each uriniferous tube, if not to furnish water, to aid in the separation and solution of the urinous products from the epithelium of the tube? Many recently discovered facts* conspire to prove that secretion is a function very nearly allied to ordinary growth and nutrition; that whereas growth and nutrition comprehend two functions, assimilation of new particles and rejection of old, the old being reconveyed into the blood, so secretion consists in a corresponding assimilation and rejection, and only differs in the old particles being at once thrown off from the system, without re-entering the blood. According to this view, all effete material received into the blood from the old substance of the various organs, must be re-assimilated by an organized tissue, specially designed for the purpose, before it can be eliminated: and all secretions designed for an ulterior use in the ceconomy must be assimilated by such a tissue in order to their separation from the blood. This tissue is the epithelium of such surfaces, as, from their external anatomical position, can at once release the secretion, when its elaboration is accomplished. The epidermis of the skin, the epithelium of mucous membranes, and that of true glands, all more or * Pueeinje, 'Report of the Meeting of Naturalists at Prague in 1837, Isis, No. 7, 1833.' ' Schwann, Froriep's Notiz., Feb., 1838.' 'Henle Muller's Archiv.,' 1838-9. [See also 'Cyclop, of Anatomy,' Art. Mucous membrane, the conclusion of which is only just published, although that part of it relating to this theory was written in December last. Mr. Goodsir, since this paper was read, has ably advocated this theory in a communication made to the Royal Society of Edinburgh on the 30th of March, an abstract of which I have just seen in the 'London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science,' May, 1842. In the same publication is a report of a paper by the same excellent anatomist ou the structure of the kidney, read at the Med. Chir. Soc. of Edinb., on April the 6th. He describes " a fibro-cellular framework, pervading every part of the gland "—analogous to the capsule of Glisson, and "forming small chambers in the cortical portion, in each of which a single ultimate coil or loop of the uriniferous ducts is lodged." The framework is the structure which I have described (pp. 70-1) [ante p. 73] as the matrix. The convoluted tubes and vessels are all imbedded in it.—June 1, 1842.]THE MALPIGHIAN" BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. 79 less completely fulfil this purpose; but the first is chiefly designed as a protection, the second partly so, and the third is the only one entirely devoted to what is properly called secretion. Into the examination of this general question, it is impossible that I should now enter, but I shall state some considerations connected with it, that seem to have a bearing on the present subject. This theory, in its widest sense, supposes the epithelium of secreting surfaces either to pass through constant stages of renovation and decay, or else to remain, during a longer period, as a permanent organic form, assimilating and rejecting, in the mode just described. In many cases the epithelial particles appear to be cast off entire when their growth is complete, and thus to form the secretion; in other instances, they seem to lose their substance by a more gradual process, and to waste or dissolve away on the surface of the membrane, as fresh particles are deposited below; in other examples still, there is reason for believing that they are long a persistent structure. It supposes that the elements of all natural secretions have at one time been a part of an organized form, the epithelial particle; but it leaves it uncertain, whether the secretion, in a complete state, always exists in such particles when alive. It does not determine whether the chemical changes which occur in such particles, issue in the completion of the secreted product, until the period arrives for its being shed from the body. Hence it is beyond the reach of objections founded on the chemical examination of glandular organs en masse. Applying this theory to the Kidney, it may be considered highly probable that the epithelium of the uriniferous tubes is continually giving up its effete particles, and undergoing a gradual decay. This view harmonizes in a striking manner with what has been before advanced as to the use of the Malpighian bodies. If the peculiar urinous principles were poured out at once, through the walls of the tubes by the capillaries surrounding them, they must be in a dissolved state from the first, and could need no further aqueous current to carry them off; but if they are deposited in a more or less solid form, as a part of an organized tissue, they will require (being so sparingly soluble) an additional and extraneous source of water, by which, when their formation is complete, they may be taken up and conveyed from the gland. The correspondence before noticed (p. 75) between the size of the Malpighian bodies and the length of the tubes coming from them, is a strong argument in favour of this view. I stated that the large quantity of water in the urine seemed chiefly to serve the purpose of a menstruum. But though this quantity is always large, compared with that in other secretions, it is liable to great variation, according to the state of fulness of the vascular system, and other circumstances. Hence the kidneys appear to share in the office of regulating the amount of water in the body. How admirably the structure of the Malpighian bodies fits them for thus acting as a self-adjusting valve or sluice to the circulation, I need not explain. It may possibly be considered by some, that in the preceding observations on the80 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF use of the aqueous element of the urine, and on the nature of secretion in general, I have been endeavouring to illustrate a doubtful hypothesis by speculations more doubtful still, obscurum per obscurius. But I rest my view of the function of the Malpighian bodies principally on anatomical grounds, and the other considerations have been introduced in connection with it, rather in consequence of the interest they appear to me to add to it, than because I am fully satisfied of their validity. Undoubtedly both questions are worthy of being separately handled, and require a much wider and more elaborate investigation than seems yet to have been given them. Meanwhile they may in turn receive some elucidation from the researches detailed in this paj)er. Parallel lines of inquiry into the anatomical varieties of the Malpighian bodies and uriniferous tubes, and into the chemistry of their secretion, in the different tribes of animals and in various stages of their development, could scarcely fail either to confirm or to confute what has now been advanced. I shall conclude with three remarks founded on the foregoing facts and speculations. 1. The bile and the urine have been ever classed together as the most important excretions. The former is secreted from venous blood; the latter it has been thought from arterial blood, except in some inferior animals, in which the blood from the lower part of the body circulates through the kidneys. But it is a most striking fact, that the proximate principles of the urine, like those of the bile, are secreted in all animals from blood which has already passed through one system of capillaries, in a word, from portal blood; although it does not appear to what extent its qualities are changed by traversing the Malpighian system. The analogy is at least remarkable, and may throw some light on the mysterious meaning of the portal circulation. 2. Diuretic medicines appear to act specially on the Malpighian bodies; and various foreign substances, particularly salts, which, when introduced into the blood, pass off by the urine with great freedom, exude in all probability through this bare system of capillaries. The structure of the Malpighian bodies indicates this, and also, as far as they are known, the laws regulating the transmission of fluids through organized tissues, modified in their affinities by vitality. 3. The escape, also, of certain morbid products, occasionally found in the urine, seems to be from the Malpighian tufts. I allude especially to sugar, albumen, and the red particles of the blood: the two first of which would transude, while the last would escape only by rupture of the vessels."" 3, Norfolk Street, Strand, February Uth, 1842. * See Note, p. 72.81 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. Explanation of the Plate. PLATE IV. Fig. 1. Malpighian tuft—Horse. The injection has penetrated only to the capillaries. a. The artery, af. One of its terminal twigs (or the afferent vessel of the Malpighian body), d. The dilatation and mode of breaking up of the terminal twig, after entering the capsule: the division of the tuft into lobes I, I, I, I, is well seen. *, i. Intervals between the lobes. Magnified about eighty diameters. Fig. 2. Malpighian tuft—Horse. The injection has penetrated through the tuft and has filled the efferent vessel, here coloured yellow for distinctness' sake. af. The afferent vessel, d. Its dilatation and mode of division. m, m. Malpighian capillaries, ef. Efferent vessel springing from them, and leaving the capsule between two primary branches of the afferent vessel. Magnified about eighty diameters. Fig. 3. Malpighian body—Horse. The injection, after filling the primary branches of the afferent vessel, has burst into the capsule and passed off along the tube. It has not filled the tuft of capillaries, which consequently are not seen, nor has it spread within the capsule over the whole surface of the tuft. af. The afferent vessel, d. Its dilatation and mode of subdivision, c, c. The outline of the distended capsule, t. The tube passing from it. m. Situation of the uninjected Malpighian tuft. Magnified about seventy diameters. Fig. 4. From the Horse. The injection has penetrated from the artery, through the Malpighian tuft, into the plexus surrounding the tubes. It has then ruptured the vessels of the tuft, filled the capsule, and passed off along the tube. a. Arterial branch, af. Afferent vessel, c. Capsule distended. t. Tube. ef. Efferent vessel, p. Plexus of capillaries, surrounding other tubes not injected. Magnified about thirty diameters. Fig. 5. From the Horse. The injection has passed as in the last-described specimen, but without rupture of the Malpighian tuft. a. Branch of the artery. af, af. Afferent vessels, m, m. Malpighian tufts, ef, ef. Efferent vessels. p. Plexus surrounding the tubes, st. Straight tube in cortical substance. ct. Convoluted tube, in ditto. Magnified about thirty diameters. Fig, 6. From the Horse. Malpighian tuft, from near the base of one of the medullary cones, injected without extravasation, and showing the efferent vein branching like an artery, as it runs into the medullary cone. a. Arterial branch, af. The afferent vessel, m, m. The Malpighian tuft. ef. The efferent vessel, b. Its branches entering the medullary cone. Magnified about seventy diameters, MMR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF 7. Similar specimens from the Eabbit, but with extravasation into the capsule, and at i into the tube also, af, af. Afferent vessel, c, c. The capsule. t. The tube, ef, ef The efferent vessel, b, b. Its branches entering the medullary cone. Magnified about thirty diameters. 8. From the Horse. Two Malpighian tufts springing close together from a single terminal twig of the artery. An unusual arrangement, af. Afferent vessel. m, m. Malpighian tufts. Magnified about thirty diameters. 9. From the human subject. Two Malpighian bodies injected. The tufts are burst and the fluid has escaped into the capsule. In one case it has passed also along the tube, the extreme tortuosity of which at its commencement, is well seen. a. Arterial branch, af. Terminal twigs, c, c. Malpighian capsules distended, de. The depression often seen in such cases, at the point where the afferent and efferent vessels pass: the latter are not here injected, t. The tube. Magnified about ninety diameters. 10. From the human subject. This specimen has been chosen because it exhibits the termination of a considerable arterial branch, wholly in Malpighian tufts, and because the several Malpighian bodies injected show different appearances of a very instructive kind. a. Arterial branch with its terminal twigs. At a the injection has only partially filled the tuft. At ft it has entirely filled it, and has also passed out along the efferent vessel ef, without any extravasation. At y it has burst into the capsule and escaped along the tube t, but has also filled the efferent vessel ef. At S and e it has been extravasated and passed along the tube. At m and m (as in fig. 3) the injection on escaping into the capsule has not spread over the whole tuft. Magnified about forty-five diameters. 11. A minute portion of the surface of the human kidney, injected from the artery. The injection has burst many Malpighian tufts within the cortical substance, and so filled the tubes, the convolutions of which on the surface of the organ are here displayed. It has also traversed other Malpighian tufts without extravasation, and so filled the capillary plexus surrounding the tubes and some radicles of the vein, t, t. Tortuous tubes as seen on the surface: these, with their capillaries, cover the surface, so that no Malpighian bodies appear, p. Capillary plexus surrounding the tubes, as seen on the surface, ev. A branch of one of the stelliform veins. Magnified about forty-five diameters. 12. From the Guinea Pig (Cobaya). Terminal branch of the renal artery injected. The injection has burst most of the Malpighian tufts and passed off along the tubes, a. Arterial branch. At m are seen a few Malpighian tufts partially injected without extravasation. Magnified about forty diameters.83 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. Fig. 13. From the Parrot (Psittacus). Injected by the artery, a, a, a. Terminal branches of the artery. af, af, af. Terminal twigs of the artery, d. Dilatation of the terminal twig on entering the Malpighian capsule. m. This dilatation more completely filled, showing its convoluted form, and ef. the efferent vessel, c. The Malpighian capsule filled, by extravasation from the contained vessel, and the tube t likewise filled. c. The same, with the efferent vessel ef also filled. Magnified about eighty diameters. Fig. 14. From the Boa Constrictor. Injected by the artery, af, af. Terminal twigs of the artery, m, m. The convoluted dilated part within the Malpighian capsule. ef The efferent vessel. c. The capsule—visible, but not injected, t. The commencement of the tube. Magnified about seventy diameters. [All the preceding figures are viewed by reflected light.] Fig. 15. From the Frog; viewed by transmitted light. Shows the continuity of the Malpighian capsule with the tube, the change in the character of the epithelium, and the vascular tuft, bm, bm. Basement membrane of the tube, ep, ep. Epithelium of the tube. cav. Cavity of the tube, bm, bm. Basement membrane of the capsule, ep', ep'. Epithelium of the neck of the tube, and of the neighbouring part of the capsule: this epithelium is covered with cilia, which were seen in active motion eight hours after death, ep". Detached epithelial particle, more highly magnified, showing the relative length of the cilia, as they appeared in this specimen. cav'. Cavity of the capsule, in which the capillaries, m, lie bare, having entered the capsule near t, where the view is obscured by another tube. Magnified about 320 diameters. Fig. 16. Plan of the renal circulation in Mammalia. The relative proportions and the character of the several parts are accurately copied from preparations of the Human kidney. The artery a (coloured pink), is seen giving a terminal twig af, to a Malpighian tuft, m, from which emerges the efferent (or portal) vessel ef (coloured yellow). Other efferent vessels are seen, e, e, e. All these enter the plexus of capillaries p (coloured blue) surrounding the uriniferous tube t (coloured red). From this plexus the emulgent vein ev springs. Supposed to be magnified about forty diameters. Fig. 17. Plan of the renal circulation in animals furnished with a portal vein from an extraneous source. The colours correspond with those of fig. 16. The relative proportions and position are copied from the kidney of the Boa (p. 69), of which a vertical section of one-half of a lobe is supposed to be made. a. Arteiy. af. Terminal twig going to the Malpighian body. m 2MR. BOWMAN ON THE KIDNEY. ef. Efferent vessel of the Malpighian body emptying itself into a branch of the portal vein pv on the surface of the lobe. b, b. Ultimate branches of the portal vein, entering the capillary plexus, p, surrounding the uriniferous tube t. u. Branch of the ureter on the surface of the lobe. ev. Emulgent vein within the lobe, receiving the blood from the plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes. Supposed to be magnified about forty diameters.Fhl.Iraju. MDCCCXfJr. PlatoNljt: j8. 4 Horse' 14. M . a arterial/ branch/ . of afferent r&fseZ o f M. body. b branch/ ofJSWfydfrffn porta/, veins brro basement membrane . e or ef Eif: vessel of M. body. . 0 capsule' of J\£. . body . ev emzila f ve&i> . 7 ' cav navity of-tube, or ditto rrv M.jtufl. d, djlu'V fr. dwi.ri/m. of a/ft vessel. p ple.xus of th* tubes. t tube . u- urctser J. 2) 17sire sc.PART II. SELECTIONS FROM THE ' PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OP MAN.'87 NOTE BY SIR WILLIAM BOWMAN, 1891. [The work entitled 'Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man' was projected by the Authors in November, 1839, and was published in Parts, of which the first appeared in February, 1843 ; the second (completing Vol. I.), in April, 1845 ; the third, in April, 1847 ; and the fourth and last, in December, 1856. As stated in the " Advertisement" to Vol. I. (April, 1845), " the Authors had had a joint share in its composition, and were equally responsible for all that it contained." When, some time ago, Dr. Burdon Sanderson acquainted me with his wish to include in the present collection of publications of mine certain portions of this joint work, which he had selected, I felt some doubt whether this wish could be acceded to by me with perfect justice to the memory of my friend. But, on consideration, I have felt that, had Dr. Todd survived me, he would certainly have given his willing sanction to the reprinting as mine of what appears below. It is perhaps hardly necessary to state that all the illustrations to the book, assigned to " The Authors " were, in fact, from drawings of mine, since my colleague did not use the pencil. These in number amounted to 120, while the remaining 178 were taken in whole or in part from other specified sources. Through the two Volumes the Chapters were numbered in sequence from 1 to 44, and the Figures also in sequence from 1 to 298. This numbering is retained in the present reprint, for convenience of reference. SUMMARY. Volumes. Parts. Dates of Chapters. Pages. Figures Totals. Publication. by w. P>. from other Sources. { 1 Feb., 1843 I. to VII. 1 to 200 39 13 52 2 Ap., 1845 viii. to xv. 201 to 448 (plus xvi.) 39 10 49 * { 3 Ap., 1847 xvi. to xxiv. (in part) 1 to 200 29 26 55 4 Dec,1856 XXIV. (in part) to xliv. 201 to 660 (plus xxiv.) 13 129 136 Totals XLIV. 1,108 plus xl. 120 178 298 The " Advertisement," " Preface," and " Dedication " were as follow :— • Advertisement.—The following work is intended to furnish the Student and Practitioner in Medicine and Surgery with a plain and accurate view of the intimate structure and functions of the human body, and is accommodated, in its plan and arrangement, to the physiological lectures, delivered in King's College, London. The authors have had a joint share in its composition, and are equally responsible for all it contains. Incorporated in various parts of the work, the reader will find opinions expressed, relating both to the structure and functions of parts, more or less at variance with those generally received. To these the authors for the most part have been led during their anxious attempts to render their descriptions direct and faithful transcripts from nature. Historical details, conflicting statements, and intricate discussions of doubtful physiological questions, have been almost wholly avoided, as being inconsistent with the end in view. The authors desire to acknowledge their obligations to Mr. Vasey, the able and intelligent artist, by whom the engravings have been executed on wood. They have likewise to express their regret at the delay which has occurred in the progress of their work. When the First Part was published in February, 1843, it was thought that the remainder might appear in two more Parts in the course of the following year. As their labours proceeded, however, it became necessary, in some measure, to modify the original plan, and to produce the work in two Volumes, of which the First is now complete. The remaining Volume will follow in two Parts at an early period. King's College, London. April, 1845.88 NOTE BY SIR WILLIAM BOWMAN", 1891. Preface.—The work, which is now brought to a conclusion, was commenced in the year 1843, having been designed as a text-book for the lectures on General Anatomy and Physiology given in King's College, London. In its title, we adopted the term Physiological Anatomy, in preference to the older one of General, or the later one of Histological, as being more comprehensive than either, and as denoting precisely that kind of Anatomy, a knowledge of which is especially required for the investigation of those subjects which ought to come under consideration in a Physiological course. We proposed to ourselves to give such a view of the main facts and doctrines of Anatomy and Physiology, particularly of those bearing on practical Medicine and Surgery, as might suffice for the wants of the student and practitioner. Following that great master, Hallee, we were desirous of giving to Anatomy a greater degree of prominence than had been usual in Physiological works, under the conviction that a thorough training in its several branches, descriptive, physiological, and comparative, is necessary to the formation of those habits of mind which best fit their possessor for the successful investigation and the correct appreciation of physiological science. And we aimed at resting our anatomical descriptions, at least as regards the more important points, upon our own investigations, and at repeating former experiments, or devising new ones, whenever questions of sufficient interest presented themselves. While we must humbly confess how small have been the advances attributable to our own labours, the immense extension given to the Sciences of Anatomy and Physiology during the last fifteen years, may be admitted as some explanation of the delay that has occurred in the publication of our work, a delay that has been a constant source of regret to us, since we began to discover how impossible it would be for us to complete it within the term originally contemplated. That, in spite of repeated procrastination, it should have been so favourably received, both at home and abroad, has been the greatest encouragement to us, and demands our most thankful acknowledgments. If, indeed, our pursuits had tended to no other end than the cultivation of science, this book might have been finished long ago ; but the increasing interruptions incident to a professional life, and the large demands made on us by studies of a practical kind, began at an early period to impede our progress. These hindrances did not diminish as time wore on, nor were they lessened by the fact of the authorship being in the hands of two persons, however cordially united by common views and the ties of friendship, or by the necessity for frequent and prolonged conferences which that double authorship entailed. Such is the apology we have to offer for the tardy completion of our work. It will, we doubt not, be fully appreciated by candid men who know by experience how multifarious are the calls made upon those who not only are candidates for professional employment in London, but hold also the responsible position of public teachers in a large School and Hospital.* Were it not indeed for the kind and valuable co-operation of Dr. Beale, who is now the sole occupant of the Physiological Chair in King's College, we should not even yet have been released from our difficulties. Dr. Beale, knowing all our views, and having worked with us on many points, has given us very important assistance in drawing up the concluding chapters of our work. Our warmest thanks are due to our friend and colleague for the patient industry and admirable judgment with which, stepping out of his proper path of independent investigation, he has carried out our intentions, and enabled us, although at the eleventh hour, to fulfil our engagement to our pupils and the public. To our friend, Dr. H. Hyde Salter we are indebted for several excellent drawings, as well as for other valuable assistance. We desire also to express our thanks to Mr. Vaset for the skill and ability with which he has executed his portion of the task, that of engraving the drawings on wood. London, W. B.—E. B. T. December 1st, 1856. Dedication (1856).—To Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie, Bart., D.C.L., F.B.S., &c, &c, Corresponding Member of the Institute of France, Serjeant-Surgeon to the Queen, whose mind, early trained in Physiological Researches, has been devoted through a long life of eminent usefulness to the Practice and Improvement of the Healing Art, this work is dedicated by The Authors. W. B.] * [This will be explained by the title pages of the two volumes of 1845 and 1856. In 1845 Dr. Todd was "Physician to King's College Hospital" (of which he bad been a chief founder), and " Professor of Physiology in King's College London" : I was "Assistant Surgeon to King's College Hospital" (from its foundation in 1839) "and Demonstrator of Anatomy in King's College, London." In 185G Dr. Todd is seen to have relinquished his chair (after having parted witb one-half of its duties to myself during five years), retaining only his Physicianship to the Hospital, while I had become " Surgeon to King's College Hospital and the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital," and both of us (owing to the engrossing calls of practice) had become " late Professors of Physiology and General and Morbid Anatomy in King's College, London."]89 ON THE PROCESS OF OSSIFICATION. From ' The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' Part I, Chapter V., pp. 117 to 125. Published February, 1843. The minute history of the process by which temporary cartilage is converted into bone, is of extreme interest. Very good descriptions of it have been given by Sharpey, Mieschicr, and others; from which, however, it will be seen by the following account that we differ in some important particulars. The nucleated cells of temporary cartilage are small, and pretty uniformly scattered through a sparing, homogeneous intercellular substance. The nuclei are granular, and large compared with the cells, which are distinguished from the sur- rounding substance principally by their transparency around each nucleus. (See fig. 30, a a'.) In the vicinity of the point of ossification (for example, in one of the long bones), a singular change is observed. The cells are seen to be gradually arranging themselves in linear series, which run down, as it were, towards the ossifying surface. The appearance they present on a vertical section is represented in fig. 30. At first their aggregation is irregular, and the series small (b b'); but, nearer to the surface of ossification, they form rows of twenty or thirty. These rows are slightly undulated, and are separated from one another by the intercellular substance. The cells com- posing them are closely applied to one another, and compressed, so that even their nuclei seem in many instances to touch: the nuclei themselves are also flattened, and expanded laterally. The lowest rows dip into, and rest in deep narrow cups of bone, formed by the osseous transformation of the intercellular substance between the rows. These cups are seen by a vertical section in fig. 30, c c', and by a transverse section on the level of the ossifying surface in fig. 31. As ossification advances between the rows, these cups are of course converted into closed areolae of bone, the walls of which are lamelli- form, and at first extremely thin. Immediately upon the ossifying surface, the nuclei, which were before closely compressed, separate considerably from one another by the increase of material within N90 ON THE PROCESS OF OSSIFICATION. the cells. The nuclei likewise often enlarge and become more transparent; a con ditio first pointed out to us by Mr. Tomes, but not present in fig. 31, which was taken from a preparation that had been immersed in spirit. The changes now enumerated may be conveniently considered to constitute the first stage of the process, which extends onty to the ossification of the intercellular substance. In this stage there are no blood- vessels directly concerned. The areola? or minute cancelli, when first formed, contain only the rows of cells which they have enclosed. It is remarkable, that, when the cartilage is torn from * .... &> ■ &M m* MM Vertical section of cai'tilage near the surface of ossification :—a, Ordinary appearance of the temporary cartilage ; a', portion of the same more highly magnified, b, The cells beginning to assume the linear direction ; V, portion more magnified. Opposite c, the ossification is extending in the inter- cellular spaces, and the rows of cells are seen resting in the cavities so formed, the nuclei being more separated than above; c, portion of the same more highly magni- fied.—From a new-born rabbit which had been preserved in spirit. FIG. 30. the bone, it usually carries with it one or two layers of these cancelli, or a little more than is represented in fig. 30. If the specimen be examined deeper in the bone, even at a depth of -^-th or |th of an inch, other appearances are met with. The lamella? of bone enclosing the cancelli are no longer simply homogeneous or finely granular in texture, but have acquired more the aspect of perfect bone. They are also thicker, and include in their substance elongated oval spaces, which, excepting that they are of a roughly granular nature, exactly resemble the lacunas of bone already described. They are evidently the nuclei of the cells of the temporary cartilage. They are scattered at pretty uniform distances apart, and they all follow the91 OSSIFICATION. direction of the lamellae to which they belong. (Fig. 32, d, g.) The curvilinear outline of their now ossified cells can often be partially discerned. (Fig. 32, e) Within the cancelli, only a few cells can be detected, these cavities being chiefly occupied by a quantity of new substance, consisting of granules, and resembling a formative blastema or basis, like that out of which all the tissues are evolved. (Fig. 32, /, and fig. 33, i.) The cells that are met with are in apposition with the wall; and sometimes (as in fig. 32, e) one of them seems half ossified, and its nucleus about to become a lacuna. The nuclei of these cells have now always the same direction as the neighbouring lacunae. In fig. 33, taken from a little deeper in the bone, we have portions of three cancelli, i, i, i, together with the osseous material, now of considerable thickness, that intervenes between them. In the centre of this last is seen a lamella, /, of a peculiar kind, containing no lacunae, and quite distinct from the layers h, h, between which it lies. These consist of nucleated cells, corresponding in size with those of the tem- porary cartilage, and having their nuclei disposed vertically, and of the same shape Vertical section from the same specimen as fig. 30, but deeper in the bone, showing the cancelli with blastema and a few cartilage- cells, and also the osseous laminae containing lacunae, similar to the nuclei of the cells:— d, Seen by a [low power; d', portion of d more highly magnified. /, Blastema around the cartilage-cells, e, Cartilage-cell apposed to the wall, and its nucleus ready to become similar to the other lacunce, as g, fig. 32. and dimensions as the lacunas of bone. They are still granular, however, and no pores can be seen emerging from them. The cells are united together, and the lines of their junction have for the most part disappeared. The curvilinear border of each can be still seen, however, at its union with the central lamina, /. In the cancelli, i, i, i, the granular blastema exists in great abundance. It hence appears that, after the ossification of the intercellular substance, the rows of cartilage-cells arrange themselves on the inner surface of the newly formed cancelli, and become ossified, with the exception of their nuclei, which remain granular, and subsequently form the lacunas of bone; and that a new substance, or blastema, appears within the cancelli, from which, probably, vessels are developed, and the future steps in the growth of the bone proceed. The cancelli when first formed are closed cavities. At a subsequent period they appear to communicate, and thus to form the cancelli and Haversian canals of perfect bone; a complete network of bloodvessels becoming developed within them at the same time. oGROWTH OF BONE. 92 The subsequent progress of ossification seems to consist essentially of a slow- repetition, on the entire vascular surface of the bone, of that process which has been now briefly described. It is probable that new cartilage-cells are developed on that surface, and become ossified in successive layers, their nuclei remaining to form the lacunas, the uniform dispersion of which through bone is thus explained. The cause of the lamination of bone, parallel to its vascular surface, is also thus illustrated. The first appearance of pores is in the form of irregularities in the margin of the lacunas. These increase with the consolidation of the tissue, and are converted into branching tubules which communicate with those adjacent. These pores must con- sequently be formed in the ossified substance of the cartilage-cells. In our account of the lacunas of perfect bone it was mentioned that, for the most part, those of con- tiguous Haversian systems do not communicate across the narrow interval that separates the Haversian rods ; this interval having, in fact, no pores. It results from what has just been said of the mode of deposition of new layers, that the primary " Another portion from the same specimen :—i, i, i, Portion of three cancelli, containing blastema, and having between them the wall of bone. The interior of this wall, I, is finely grannlar, and contains no lacunae, being the lamina first formed between the rows of cells in the cartilage. Coating this on both sides is a layer of bone in which the form of the cartilage-cells is still visible, as well as their nuclei, forming the lacunas. On the wall of the cancellus on the right are seen two nuclei, which appear to be forming there. This last is an appearance often seen. fig. 33. osseous network, formed in the intercellular substance of the temporary cartilage, must come to constitute the substance intervening between the Haversian rods, the non-porosity of which is thus satisfactorily accounted for, as well as the facility with which the rods themselves may be made to separate from one another. As for the lacunas, their originally granular interior seems to be gradually removed, so that they become vacuities adapted for the conveyance of the nutritious fluids through the compact material of the perfect bone. Growth of Bone. But it must not be imagined, that, when bone is once deposited in a certain form, it thenceforward permanently maintains its size and shape. Though a lamella93 GROWTH OF BONE. be completely ossified, its particles are in constant course of change, during which the most important and extensive alterations of size and figure take place in a slow and gradual manner. Thus the layers first deposited on the inner surface of the early cancelli are pushed out by the succeeding ones, and also acquire a concomitant augmentation of mass; and as, in general terms, the number of lacunas in bone is proportioned to its amount [mass], the early layers most likely increase by a growth and ossification of cells in their own substance, even for long after they have been pushed away from the vascular surface, and supplanted by the more recent ones. Thus, though bone grows chiefly by layers formed in succession on its vascular surface, yet it also grows in an interstitial manner after being originally deposited. It is in this way only that we can explain the great expansion which the primary intercellular osseous network must undergo, to form that which intervenes between the Haversian systems. Bone when first formed, then, is disposed as an expanded surface, variously and complexly involuted, and which soon becomes covered with vessels. This is the foundation for its subsequent vascularity, and is the source also of that active power of internal growth, which has been long a theme of admiration with physiologists. But the expansion of bone once deposited is limited. We before observed that no part of the osseous tissue was at more than a certain minute distance from the vascular surface; and that, if it were so, its nutrition could not be suitably carried on. Now, if more than a certain number of lamina? of new bone were laid down the earlier ones would be pushed too far from the supply of blood; and hence the limitation we have spoken of. But it is necessary for bone to grow much more between the commencement of ossification and the adult age than this limitation appears to allow of; and here we come upon an admirable provision to meet this apparent difficulty. In the first place, a most important process of growth is continually going on in the cartilage, especially near the ossifying surface, by the multiplication of the cells; and, in the latter situation, by the increase in their dimensions, occasioning that separation of their nuclei, already described (p. 89, and fig. 30, c). In the long bones this takes place chiefly in the longitudinal direction, which is that in which growth is most active; and it continues till adult age. This fact has been long ascertained, though its real purpose appears to have been overlooked. Hales and Hunter both inserted metallic substances along the shaft of a growing bone, in a young animal, at a certain distance apart; and found, after an interval of time, that the distance between them remained the same, or nearly so, while the extremities of the bone were much further apart: thus proving that the principal growth had taken place near the extremities. Secondly, bones increase in dimension by an accession of new osseous substance on their exterior; this new substance consisting not merely of new laminse, but of new systems of laminae, and of new involutions of the vascular surface to form new o 294 COLOURING BONE BY MADDER. Haversian canals, so that the earlier systems of laminse are covered over by the more recent ones. This has been best proved by the experiments with madder. It was ascertained accidentally by Belchier that the rubia tinctorum, or madder, mixed with the food of pigs, imparted its red colour to their bones; and this circumstance has been ingeniously taken advantage of by several physiologists in the prosecution of researches on the growth of bone."" Duhamel, Hunter, and many others, have performed multiplied experiments of this kind. In the Museum of King's College are some good preparations of bones so acted upon. It is found that, in very young animals, a single day suffices to colour the entire skeleton, apparently in an uniform manner: in these there is no osseous material far from the vascular surface. But, if we make a transverse section of one of the long bones so treated, we observe the deepest, or even the only colour, to be really on the vascular surface; the Haversian canals are each encircled by a crimson ring. This beautiful illustration is due, as far as we know, to Mr. Tomes, who has long possessed some very elegant specimens prepared in this way. In full-grown animals the bones are very slowly tinged, because the great mass of the bone is not in contact with bloodvessels; each Haversian system, for example, has only its small innermost lamella in contact with them; and, besides, the osseous matter is altogether more consolidated and less permeable by fluids than at a very early period of life. In the bones of half-grown animals a part of the bone is nearly in the perfect condition, while a part is new and easily coloured. Hence, it is easy in them to distinguish the new from the old by means of madder. Now, madder given to half-grown animals colours the long bones most deeply in the interval between the shaft and extremities, and on the surface of the shaft. When madder is given at intervals, the tints in the bone are interrupted; the layers in course of formation during its administration are coloured, while those formed during the intervening periods are colourless. The long period during which bones retain the madder tinge, shows that the colouring matter is not readily resumed by the blood, from its combination with the phosphate of lime; and it seems also to indicate a sluggishness of the nutrient process in bone. Perhaps few questions have more divided the minds of physiologists than that regarding the share taken by the periosteum in the growth and regeneration of bone; for these last are essentially the same process. We now see that bone does not grow * The colouring of bone by madder results from an affinity of the colouring principle for the phosphate of lime. This opinion was distinctly broached by Haller ('El. Phys.,' t. viii., p. 329), and it was subsequently proved by Rutherford, who showed it experimentally. To an infusion of madder in distilled water add muriate of lime: no change takes place. Then add phosphate of soda in solution. By double elective affinity, phosphate of lime and muriate of soda are formed. The phosphate is insoluble, and subsides in union with the colouring matter as a crimson lake. When madder is given as food, its colouring principle is absorbed, and circulates with the blood; and it colours first that part of the bone which is in course of formation from that fluid, or which has been last formed, i.e., which ia nearest the vascular surface.95 REPARATION OF BONE. on its exterior from the periosteum being there ; and that the only part this membrane takes in the deposit of new bone is by the vascular network mingled with its fibrous tissue, and which does not differ from that on other portions of the osseous surface. The limited expansibility of the bone already formed is the remote cause to which the growth by new deposit on the exterior is to be referred; and, in this respect, the superficial growth is strictly analogous to the exogenous mode of growth in vegetable structures. A third mode in which increase of size is provided for, appears to be by the dilatation of the primary cancelli and Haversian canals in the central parts of the bone. In early life the cancelli are small, and there is no medullary cavity. Gradually the cancelli enlarge, and those within the shaft blend more and more with one another, by the removal to a greater or less extent of the intervening osseous walls, until at length a medullary canal is formed, around which the cancelli are very open, large, and irregular. This augmentation of the vascular cavities of bone is attended with a development of adipose vesicles and their capillaries in the new space, while the proper vessels of the osseous tissue remain pretty much as before. The fat contained in the medullary canal gradually accumulates so much, that a special artery becomes enlarged to supply it, assuming the very inappropriate title of " the nutrient artery of the bone." Duhamel placed a ring of silver round a bone of a young Pigeon, without injuring the periosteum. After some time, during which the bone had increased in diameter, he found the ring within the medullary canal, which had acquired a capacity equal to the previous diameter of the whole shaft. This enlargement of the diameter of a long bone by the dilatation of its interior, is attended by two consequences, equally important. The shell of compact tissue is thus adapted to offer greater resistance to injurious mechanical forces, while the disadvantage of a corresponding increase of weight is obviated. Reparation of Bone. The great importance of this subject to the surgeon has led to many very interest- ing researches from the time of Duhamel to the present day, and by these the several steps of the process by which new bone is deposited have been ably elucidated in all that relates to their more obvious characters. When a fracture occurs, blood is, of course, effused into the wound, both from the ruptured vessels of the bone itself, and from those of the surrounding structures participating in the injury. At a short period subsequently, a semi-transparent lymph is found mingled with the coagulum, and covering the surfaces of the hard and soft parts exposed. This lymph in all probability is the same as that by which the adhesive process in other wounds is effected. In the second and third weeks a gradual condensation of this takes place,96 PROVISIONAL AND PERMANENT CALLUS. accompanied with an interstitial change, converting it into a substance resembling temporary cartilage. Ossification takes place throughout this in a nearly uniform manner, until, towards the fourth or sixth week, the whole is transformed into a spongy, but firm osseous mass, investing the exterior of the broken extremities, and extending between them in the form of a case, by which they are firmly held together. If the medullary canal has been broken across, and the broken ends evenly adjusted, there will be likewise an interior stem of new bone connecting the medullary canal of the fragments in the axis of the bone; the opposed surfaces of the compact tissue being as yet ununited. The callus, or new bone, thus formed, was termed by Dutuytren provisional, as it is gradually absorbed during the succeeding months, while the permanent callus is being slowly deposited between the contiguous surfaces of the compact tissue. It would appear that new bone is formed more exuberantly in the situations of the provisional callus because of their greater vascularity; just as we may suppose the function of ordinary nutrition to be more active in those parts, than in the compact tissue of the bone. The permanent caUus has all the characters of true bone. When the reparative process in bone is interfered with, either by mal-apposition of the fragments, or by constitutional fault, a spurious union may occur by the medium of a ligamentous substance, or even a diarthrodial joint may be formed at the seat of fracture. The ends of the bones become altered in form, and adapted to one another; a kind of false capsular ligament is developed, and sometimes even an imperfect cartilage, and a lining membrane furnishing a lubricating fluid.*! * The following works may be consulted on Bone:—' The Systems of General Anatomy,' already quoted (viz., by Bichat, Beclard, Ckaigib, and Henle) ; Meckel, ' Anatomie Generale Descript. et Patholog.,' torn. i.; Dr. Bostock's ' Physiology,' where will be found an excellent and learned summary of the observations of preceding physiologists on the structure and growth of bone; Mr. Paget's paper on the "Influence of Madder on the Bones of Growing Animals," 'Lond. Med. Gazette,' vol. xxv.; Deotsch, ' De penitiori Ossium structural observationes,' 1834; Miescher, 1 De inflammatione Ossium eorumque anatome generali,' 1836; Muller's ' Physiology,' by Balt, vol. i. M. Flourens has lately published a handsome volume on the growth of bone, illustrated with figures. ■j" [Among the Essays of my Student days at the Birmingham General Hospital was one ' On the Pathology of Fractures,' of which the MS. is preserved. It was illustrated by Cases and Drawings ; the date of it, January, 1835. W. B.]97 ON STRIPED AND UNSTRIPED MUSCLE. From ' The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' Vol. I, Chapter VII, pp. 150 to 160. Published February, 1843. The principal movements of the body, and all those by which locomotion is effected, are performed by means of a tissue termed muscle, endowed with the power of contracting, and consisting chemically of fibrine. This substance is arranged in the form of unbranched fibres of definite size and structure, and which, when examined under a high magnifying power, are found to be of two kinds, distinguishable from one another by the presence or absence of very close and minute transverse bars or stripes. The fibres of the voluntary muscles (or those whose movements can be either excited or controlled by volition), as well as the fibres of the heart, and some of those of the oesophagus, are sfriped; while all other muscles, including those of the alimentary canal, the uterus, and bladder, all of which are involuntary, are unstriped. The elementary fibres of the voluntary muscles are connected to one another by areolar tissue, and arranged in sets parallel to one another. They are supplied with vessels and nerves, which lie in the intervals between them; and are attached, by their extremities, through the medium of tendon, aponeurosis, or some form of the fibrous tissue, to the parts which they are destined to move. They form organs, for the most part solid and elongated, but which are sometimes expanded into a membranous shape. The sets of fibres of the involuntary muscles, on the other hand, usually cross each other at various angles, and interlace, and they are always arranged as membranous organs enclosing a cavity, which their contraction serves to constrict. The heart, besides being independent of the will, agrees in both these anatomical characters with the involuntary muscles, and is only allied to the voluntary by the presence in its fibres of the transverse stripes. We shall commence with a description of the two forms of fibre.98 OF THE STRIPED MUSCLE. Of the Striped Fibres. The length, of these is usually about that of the muscle to which they belong, but occasionally they are interrupted by tendinous intersections, as in the rectus abdominis and semitendinosus; and it is very common for them to fall short of the length of the whole organ, in consequence of an oblique disposition, as seen in penniform muscles. In the sartorius they often exceed two feet in length, while in the stapedius they are not two lines. They vary in diameter from -g^th to T^o_otn °f an incn> being largest in Crustacea, fish, and reptiles, where their irritability is enduring ; and smallest in birds, where it is most evanescent. The individual fibres, however, vary considerably in thickness in the members of the several tribes, and even in the same animal and muscle. Their average width in man is about -^oth of an inch. They are not cylindrical, but flattened more or less, by being closely packed together. This may be ascertained in the recent state, or still better by a transverse section of a dried muscle. Small interspaces are left, however, for the passage of the Transverse sections of striped muscle that had been injected and dried, magnified 70 diameters :— A, From the Frog. B, From the Dog. b, b, Section of elementary fibres, showing their angular form and various size, a, a, Sec- tions of the injected capillaries, showing the position they occupy among the fibres, a, Transverse branch between two longitudinal capillaries. These figures show the greater vascularity of the muscle, with the narrower elementary fibres. pig. 36. capillary bloodvessels along the angles of junction, and sometimes between the contiguous sides. (Fig. 36.) Internal Structure. The beautiful cross-markings on the voluntary fibre have been known from the early days of microscopical research, and have given occasion to a variety of hypothe- tical and generally mechanical solutions of the problem of contraction ; which, by warping the minds of observers, have had the effect of greatly complicating an already difficult subject, that of the internal anatomy of the fibre, which can only be determined by pure observation. Fontana alone among the older anatomists abstained from vague speculation; and he arrived nearest to the truth. He found that the fibre was apt to split up into fine fibrilke, each of which was a series of particles; and he imagined that the transverse lines were caused by the regular apposition side by side of the particles of the contiguous fibrillge. It was customary both before and since his time, as at the present day, to regard the fibre as a bundle of smaller ones, whence the term99 DOUBLE CLEAVAGE. primitive fasciculus, first given to it by him and adopted by Muller : but this view of the subject is imperfect. The fibre always presents, upon and within it, longitudinal dark lines, along which it will generally split up into fibrilke; but it is by a fracture alone that such fibrillar are obtained. They do not exist as such in the fibre. And, further, it occasionally happens that no disposition whatever is shown to this longi- tudinal cleavage ; but that, on the contrary, violence causes a separation along the transverse dark lines, which always intersect the fibre in a plane perpendicular to its axis. By such a cleavage, discs, and not fibriUse, are obtained; and this cleavage is just as natural, though less frequent than the former. Hence it is as proper to say that the fibre is a pile of discs, as that it is a bundle of fibrillar: but, in fact, it is neither the one nor the other, but a mass in whose structure there is an intimation of rf r- ,„ Fragments of striped elementary fibres, showing a cleavage in opposite directions; magnified 300 diameters:—A, Longitudinal cleavage ; the longi- tudinal and transverse lines are both seen. Some longitudinal lines are darker and wider than the rest, and are not continuous from end to end : this results from partial separation of the nbrillas. c, Fibrilla?, separated from one another by vio- lence at the broken end of the fibre, and marked by transverse lines equal in width to those on the fibre, c', c", Represent two appearances commonly presented by the separated single fibrillar (more highly magnified). At c' the borders and transverse lines are all perfectly rectilinear, and the included spaces perfectly rectangular. At c", the borders are scalloped, the spaces bead-like. When most distinct and definite, the fibrilla presents the former of these appearances. b, Transverse cleavage; the longitudinal lines are scarcely visible, a, Incomplete fracture following the opposite surfaces of a disc, which stretches across the inteiwal and retains the two fragments in connexion; the edge and surface of this disc are seen to be minutely granular, the granules corresponding in size to the thickness of the disc, and to the distance between the faint longitudinal lines, b, Another disc nearly detached, b', Detached disc more highly magnified, showing the sarcous elements. the existence of both, and a tendency to cleave in the two directions. If there were a general disintegration • along all the lines in both directions, there would result a series of particles, which may be termed primitive particles or sarcous elements, the union of which constitutes the mass of the fibre. These elementary particles are arranged and united together in the two directions. All the resulting discs as well as fibrilla are equal to one another in size, and contain an equal number of particles, The same particles compose both. To detach an entire fibrilla is to abstract a particle of every disc, and vice versd. The width of the fibre is therefore uniform, and is equal to the diameter of any one of the discs. Its length is the length of any one of its fibrillas, and is liable to the greatest variety. Muller, Schwann, Lauth, and others, consider, with us, that the cross stripes of p FIG. 37.100 DECEPTIVE APPEARANCES. the fibre are formed by the apposition side by side of the dark points seen on the separated fibrillse; but some believe these stripes to be present only on the surface of the fibre, and to be formed by the spiral windings of a filament. Considerable diversity of opinion also exists as to the nature of the alternate light and dark points seen on the individual fibrillse ; some conceiving them to indicate a single spiral, others a double spiral arrangement ; some imagining them to be minute zigzag bendings, others indentations, and others still that they depend on the alternation of two kinds of substance. On this account we shall explain in a few words our reasons for adopting the view above summarily given. A soft mass made up of an immense congeries of hightly refracting particles cannot but exhibit many deceptive appearances when viewed by transmitted light, and through glasses of bad defining power. The slightest disturbance of its interior structure will affect the refractions, which will thus be readily made to disguise and modify the true form and arrangement of its integrant parts; on which account great care and circumspection, and a total freedom from bias, are requisite for an observer who would not be misled to mistake appearances for realities. That the stripes are not caused by a structure distinct from the fibriUse, and present only on the surface of the fibre, is evident from the following facts: 1. That a transverse section of a fibre shows it to be solid, and not hollow; and that the ends of fibrillas, as seen on the section, exist throughout its interior just as on its surface. (Fig. 38.) 2. That fibrillar taken from any part of a fibre are marked with light and dark points, corresponding in distance and force with the transverse stripes of the fibre. 3. That with a high magnifying power, applied to a thick fibre, we may bring all parts of its interior into focus in succession, and perceive throughout the same kind of stripes. The occasional appearance, therefore, of these stripes being confined to the surface is deceptive. They are sometimes more strongly marked there, partly because there is a greater condensation of the tissue there, and partly from the circumstance of the fibre being usually immersed, when examined, in a fluid of less density than itself. This appearance is always greatly diminished by placing the fibre in syrup. But the point of greatest interest is as to the nature of the markings on the individual fibrillar or discs. It is unsafe to come to a conclusion on this question from any appearances seen on the entire fibre; for it is clear that the relative position of the particles may be very easily deranged, and their regularity broken, by the slightest injury to the mass. Two appearances commonly present themselves in examining the striped fibres : in some parts the cross stripes are perfectly rectilinear, or, if curvilinear, parallel in their course; in other parts, these stripes do not extend across the fibre, but are more or less interrupted, forming zigzags and enclosing spaces of a great variety of shape and size, in concert with the longitudinal stripes. In such specimens weRECTILINEAR CROSS MARKINGS. 101 see the semblance of spirals in almost infinite number and variety. The former of these appearances is most seen in large fibres, and where great care has been used not to drag the tissue ; the latter under the reverse circumstances. The former seems on a prima facie view an unmutilated, the latter a deranged, condition; and they may be proved to be so by a further examination. For this purpose we should make choice of a fresh fibre which is prone to separate into its individual fibrillge, and which exhibits their outline in the greatest distinctness and beauty.*5" If fibrillge entirely isolated be now inspected, they will be found to present alternate light and dark points, when the part is a little out of focus. The light points are the centres of highly refracting particles, acting as lenses; the dark points, the intervals between them (fig. 37, c"). If now the focus be carefully adjusted, and the achromatic condenser be employed for the purpose of defining the outline with the utmost precision, each dark interspace between the refracting points will be found to be reduced to two very slender straight lines, crossing the fibrilla in a perfectly transverse direction, and giving the light spaces, as now seen, a rectangular figure (fig. 37, c). Now, it is absolutely certain that no spiral arrangement could produce, or even co-exist with, these unequivocal appearances; but it is not difficult to comprehend how a derangement of the lateral parallelism of these refracting particles should produce an appearance of spirals in the fibre, or how two fibrillge running together, but with their particles slightly deranged, should wear the same very deceptive aspect. In Plate XVI, fig. 16, is represented the border of some fibres, from which several of the sarcous elements have been removed accidentally by maceration in weak spirit. The remaining ones project in lateral series, evincing their adhesion to one another in that direction, and the non-existence of any spiral arrangement. The size of the particles composing the fibre may be measured in one direction by the transverse stripes formed by their union. The following average, deduced from numerous observations, shows great uni- formity in this respect. No. of English Inch. Observations. In tlie Human subject Woo 27 „ Mammalia generally Toioo J-5 „ Birds xoioo 7 „ Reptiles rTi^ 7 Fish i 20 „ Insects 8 In the opposite direction, or that marked by the distance between the longi- tudinal dark lines of the fibre, their diameter is less, often by one half. It is important * The fibres of fishes will generally prove better than those of mammalia, because they usually cleave into fibrillse having very sharp and clear outlines; and those of the salmon, for example, will seldom fail to do so. p 2102 THE SARCOLEMMA. to remark, that these measurements are taken from uncontracted specimens, since daring contraction the relative diameters of the particles are changed. Of the Sarcolemma. The striped fibre is enclosed in a tubular sheath or snrcolemma, adapted to its surface, and adhering to it. This consists of a transparent, very delicate, but tough and elastic membrane, which isolates the fibre from all other tissues. In general, it has no appearance of any kind of structure ; but in the case of bulky fibres, where it is strong in proportion, faint indications may be detected of a complex interweaving of filaments far too minute to be individually recognized. It occasionally has small corpuscles, the remains of cell-nuclei, in contact with it. This membrane may be sometimes seen forming a transparent border to the fibre beyond the limit of the cross stripes ; or it may be seen stretching between the separated fragments of a fibre which has been broken within it, for its toughness will often resist a force before which its brittle contents give way. If the fibre be immersed in acid, it swells, often so suddenly as to burst the sheath at numerous places, and protrude in the form of small hernia?. These herniee are very peculiar and illustrate the account already given of the internal composition of the fibre; for the particles of the protruded mass are necessarily deranged, and their lateral parallelism destroyed. Now, the result of this is the production of the most beautiful and varied curves, intersecting one another, very similar to those already spoken of on the injured fibre, and wearing a very plausible aspect of spirals. (See Plate XVII, fig. 39.) Again, the sarcolemma may be seen raised in the form of vesicles from the surface of the fibre, in certain states of contraction in water, which will be reverted to. By one or more of these modes of demonstration, we know that this isolator of the sarcous tissue invests the striped elementary fibre of voluntary muscle in all animals. Its existence is as yet doubtful in the heart. Every fibre is attached by its extremities to fibrous tissue, or to some tissue analogous to it; but an accurate examination of this difficult subject lends no countenance to the ordinarily received opinion, that this tissue is prolonged over the whole fibre from end to end, as its cellular sheath ; nor is this view reconcilable with the physical requirements of the case. It is extremely difficult to isolate a muscular fibre, with the tendinous fibrillas pertaining to it, either in mammalia or birds ; but this may be occasionally accomplished in fishes, and in certain muscles of insects. (See Plate XVIII, figs. 68,69 and 70). In these examples, the minute detachment of the fibrous tissue may be seen to pass, and to become attached to the truncated extremity of the fibre. The fibre ends by a perfect disc, and with the whole surface of this disc the tendon is connected and continuous. The sarcolemma ceases103 JUNCTION OF TENDON WITH MUSCLE. abruptly at the circumference of the terminal disc, and. here some small part of the tendinous material appears to be joined to it. In other cases, where the muscle is fixed obliquely to a membranous surface, each fibre is obliquely truncated at its extremity; at an angle determined by the inclination of its axis; instances of which may be seen among the Crustacea, and elsewhere. The researches of Valentin and Schwann have shown that a muscle consists, in the earliest stage, of a mass of nucleated cells, which first arrange themselves in a linear series, with more or less regularity, and then unite to constitute the elementary fibres. As this process of the union of the cells is going forward, a deposit of contractile material gradually takes place within them, commencing on the inner surface, and advancing towards the centre, till the whole is solidified. The deposition occurs in granules, which, as they come into view, are seen to be disposed in the utmost order, according to the two directions already specified. These granules, or sarcous elements, being of the same size as in the perfect muscle, the transverse stripes resulting from their apposition are of the same width as in the adult; but as they are very few in number, the fibres which they compose are of corresponding tenuity. From the very first moment of their formation, these granules are parts of a mass, and not independent of one another; for, as soon as solid matter is deposited in the cells, faint indications of a regular arrangement in granules are usually to be met with. It is common for the longitudinal lines to become well defined before the transverse ones. When both are become strongly marked, as is always the case at birth, the nuclei of the cells, which were before visible, disappear from view, being shrouded by the dark shadows caused by the multitudinous refractions of the light transmitted through the mass of granules: but they can still be shown to exist in the perfect fibre, in all animals, and at all periods of life, by immersion in a weak acid; which, while it swells the fibrous material of the granules, and obliterates their intervening lines, has no action on the nuclei. These nuclei in insects are arranged, in the early condition of the fibre, as a single or double series along the axis (Plate XVIII, fig. 53); and in the adult state, they retain the same position. (See Plate XVIII, fig. 70). In vertebrate animals they are scattered more irregularly, but at pretty equal distances throughout the mass in both foetal and adult conditions. In the fully-formed fibre, if it be large, they lie at various depths within it; but, if small, they are at or near the surface. They are oval and fiat, and of so little substance, that though many times larger than the sarcous elements, and lying amongst them, they do not interfere with their mutual apposition and union. These corpuscles are frequently the cause of irregular longitudinal dark streaks, seen in the fibre by transmitted light. They usually contain some central granules or nucleoli. It is doubtful whether the identical corpuscles, originally present, remain through life, or whether successive crops advance and decay during the progress of growth and nutrition; but it is certain that, as development proceeds, fresh corpuscles are deposited, since their absolute number is far greater in the adult104 THE UNSTRIPED FIBRES. than in the foetus, while their number relatively to the bulk of the fibre, at these two epochs, remains nearly the same. Muscles grow by an increase, not of the number, but of the bulk of their elemen- tary fibres : there is reason to believe that the number of fibres remains through life as it was in the foetus, and that the spare or muscular build of the individual is determined by the mould in which his body was originally cast. Of the Unstriped Fibres.. This variety possesses less interest than the other, in consequence of the apparent simplicity of its structure. The fibres consist of flattened bands (fig. 298, p. 245 infra), generally of a pale colour, bulged at frequent intervals by elongated corpuscles, similar to those of striped muscle and capable of being displayed by the same process.* The tex- ture of these fibres seems to be homogeneous. By transmitted light, they have usually a soft very finely mottled aspect, and without a darkly-shaded border. Sometimes the mottling is so decided as to appear granular, and occasionally these granules are arranged in a linear series for some distance. This condition is probably an approach towards the structure of the striped fibre, for these granules are about the size of the sarcous elements already described. It is generally to be seen more or less distinctly in the gizzards of birds; and may be now and then met with in the fresh muscle of the stomach, intestinal canal, urinary bladder, and uterus of mammalia. The ordinary diameter of the unstriped fibre is from -goVotii to 201oo^,n °^ an mch- It might be expected, from this account of the appearance of these fibres, that their discrimination from other tissues would be often difficult. The peculiar texture, however, the size, the soft margin, and, above all, the presence of numerous elongated oval corpuscles with two or three granules near their centre, are characters which, when united, will seldom be mistaken. As a number of fibres commonly take a parallel course together, the bulgings occasioned by the corpuscles give rise to partial longitudinal shadows, extending for some way beyond the corpuscles in the intervals of the fibres. As these irregular longitudinal shadows occur pretty uniformly throughout a bundle of fibres, and as some of them are necessarily out of focus, while others are in focus, the whole mass commonly presents a confused reticulated appearance, which has given rise to an almost universal notion that the fibres interlace one with another. This idea, however, is, in most cases, erroneous. It is doubtful whether these fibres are invested by a sarcolemma: none has hitherto been detected in an unequivocal manner. It is also still a matter of speculation how they terminate, or whether they in all instances have a termination. In the case of the transverse * In some specimens, however, of both varieties of fibre, they may be discerned without the addition of an acid.105 THE UNSTRIPED FIBRES. fibres ol the intestine, for example, it is uncertain whether each fibre surrounds the canal once, returning into itself as a ring, or more than once, as a spiral; or whether it passes only partially round it, the circle being completed by others. Whether the areolar tissue (the representative of the fibrous), that is found in connection with these fibres, serves to give them an attachment, by union with their extremities, or by involving them in its meshes, is also altogether unknown. In the gizzard of the bird, the ends of the fibres are united to white fibrous tissue, thus making an approximation to the striped fibre, as they do in colour. But we have not been able, after diligent search, to detect the true transverse stripes, which Ficinus describes to exist in this organ.107 ON MUSCULAR ACTION. From 'The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, Vol. I, Chapter VII, pp. 170 to 194. Published February, 1843. Of the Function of Muscles. The great property of muscular tissue is that of shortening in a particular direction, and this property is called contractility. It is not that mechanical power which elastic substances possess of shortening themselves on the removal of some force which has stretched them, but it is an endowment, responsive to appropriate stimuli, and diminishing or disappearing with the healthy state of the tissue. The distinction between the contractility, the elasticity, and the physical tenacity of a muscle may be illustrated by the following imaginary experiment: Suppose the leg of an animal so severed from the trunk as to hang by a single muscle, which, after retaining its contractility for some time, were gradually to lose it. The limb would at first be borne up by the contractile power; but, as that ceased, the muscle would elongate under the weight, and the limb would remain suspended simply by the tenacity of the part. If, now, the muscle, were stretched between the hands, we should find it to possess some slight elasticity. The elasticity and much of the tenacity of muscles are attributable to the sarcolemma, and to the capillary and areolar tissues. It does not appear that elasticity is in any degree a property of the sarcous elements, and their tenacity must be comparatively slight; but it is the sarcous tissue alone that possesses contractility. Although it is universally allowed that the muscular tissue is the contractile substance, yet the strange question has been raised, and is still warmly debated, whether it possesses this power in itself, and independently of all other tissues: some contending that nerve is necessary to confer contractility on muscle,—to charge it, as it were, with this property; others, that nerve is only necessary to call it into action; and others, that the property is the essential attribute of the tissue, and totally independent of all nerves. The time is past when the intricacies of this Q108 PASSIVE AND ACTIVE CONTRACTION. keen contest can be threaded with any benefit to the student, and we therefore refrain from attempting to follow them. We shall prefer offering him a view of the facts of the subject, as at present known, drawing our conclusions as they arise. The contractility of muscle is exhibited in two varieties of contraction, passive and active. Passive contraction is that which every muscle is continually prone to undergo, by the mere quality of its tissue, as long as it remains in its natural situation in the body. The muscles are ever kept on the stretch by the nature of their position and attachments, and cannot have their ends so approximated, by attitude or otherwise, as that their tendency to shorten themselves shall cease. If, for example, the rectus muscle of the thigh have its extremities brought as near together as can be effected artificially by posture, they would yet be found to approach still nearer on being freed from their attachment to the bones. The stimulus to this contraction may be therefore considered to be that of extension. In fractures and dislocations attended with shortening of the limb, the muscles adapt themselves permanently to their shortened state by virtue of this property. This tendency to contract has been distinguished by the term retractility, ftom its being manifested by the retraction that occurs when the belly of a muscle is cut across. But, in this instance, the retraction would appear to be in part caused by an active contraction excited by the stimulus of the injury. It has been also styled tonicity. It is well exemplified in all those contracted states of muscles which follow paralysis of their antagonists, as when the features are drawn towards the healthy side in hemiplegia. The passive contraction of muscles is continually opposed to their elongation by the active or passive contraction of antagonists, and restores them when that subsides. By it they are accommodated to an attitude artificially given, when no muscular effort is required to maintain it. When no active contraction is present in a limb, the passive contraction remains; and being brought to a state of equilibrium in all the muscles, by their mutual antagonism, the limb is said to be at rest. This is the general condition during sleep, in which the posture assumed by the limbs is determined by the relative power of antagonist muscles: the flexors overcome the extensors, and hence the limbs are bent. Active contraction is attended with those striking manifestations of power that specially characterise muscle. It is always excited by a local or partial stimulus, and is always exerted in opposition to another force within the body, which it is able more or less completely to master. The opposing force is generally the passive contraction of antagonist muscles, as well as the weight or resistance of some part upon which the muscle acts directly; but it may be the elasticity of parts, or, in the case of hollow muscles, the resistance of their own contents. Active contractions are also frequently opposed to one another in the maintenance of a fixed posture. Active contraction is partial and interrupted, both in extent and duration. It requires intervals of rest, being attended with exhaustion of the power which produces it;STIMULI TO MUSCULAR CONTRACTION. 109 which exhaustion, in the voluntary muscles, is attended with the sensation called muscular fatigue. The contractility of muscles, therefore, is being ever exerted, in obedience to the equable stimulus of tension, without fatigue, in the production of what we have termed passive contraction; when it is affected by a powerful, partially-applied stimulus, active contraction results, inducing the necessity for subsequent rest. But there seems no good ground for supposing the contractile force to differ in its nature, when exhibited under these different modes of action. Stimuli to Muscular Contraction. Whatever is capable of inducing contraction in the muscles, when either naturally or unnaturally applied to them, is termed a stimulus. In the living body, the muscular fibres are in most instances made to contract by the immediate influence of the nervous tubules distributed among them; and this influence, however called into play, should be styled the nervous stimulus, or the vis nervosa. This nervous stimulus, then, is simply the effect of such a condition of the motor nerves as enables them to induce contraction in muscular fibres which are in the due relation to their terminal loops. Of the nature of this condition, and of the mode of its production, we are as completely ignorant, as we are of the nature of all those other conditions of the nervous system on which the manifestation of its various phenomena depends; but we know some little of the agents by which the nerves are thrown into this state. The chief of them are volition, emotion, and impressions carried by the afferent nerves to the nervous centres, and there affecting the efferent, or motor nerves, independently of volition or consciousness; but to these are to be added various impressions from diseases and injuries of the motor nerves, either at their origin or in their course, together with pressure, heat, chemical substances, electricity, &c, applied to their texture. The former are the natural excitants of the nervous stimulus in the living body; the latter may be proved to possess this property by observation, and by experiments on nerves distributed to muscles, either in the body, or soon after their removal from it. The power of inducing contraction in the muscles is an endowment of those nerves only which have a certain organic connection with the muscles; and these nerves are, therefore, distinguished as motor. There are other stimuli of muscle besides the vis nervosa, which occasion contraction in the living body; but, in general, these affect only the hollow muscles. Experiment has, indeed, shown these muscles to be under the influence of motor nerves derived from the spinal marrow; but it seems probable that some of them, at least, are normally excited to contract by the stimulus of stretching or distension, to which they are peculiarly liable from their arrangement as investments to hollow viscera. Muscles have not the capacity of elongating themselves that has sometimes been Q 2110 CONTRACTILITY INHERENT IN MUSCLE. ascribed to them: when once contracted, they remain shortened, notwithstanding the contractile force have subsided, unless their ends be drawn apart by some extraneous force. This force is that which has been already specified as being always exerted in opposition to active contraction in the living bod}-. In the case of the voluntary muscles, this force always continues to act after the active contraction has ceased; but in the case of the hollow muscles, where it consists of the resistance of their contents, it sometimes happens that these, when removed, are not at once replaced ; and hence an enduring contraction, though the active contractile force is no longer exerted. Thus an empty intestine is reduced to the size of a tobacco-pipe, and the sphincters of the anus and bladder are kept contracted, without any tetanic spasm, or permanent expenditure of contractile force, as has been sometimes supposed. Now, the stimulus of distension is, in the first instance, nothing more than the elongating force which calls into play the contractility of a muscle under its passive form; and there is this peculiar to it, that it affects equally every point of the substance of each fibre, which no other stimulus can do: and hence would result the uniformity which will presently be shown to characterise passive contraction, for contraction is an answer to a stimulus. This consideration tends strongly to confirm the view which we have taken of the identity of the forces displayed in passive and active contraction, of tonicity and contractility. Other stimuli may be mentioned as capable of causing muscular contraction by their direct agency on the tissue; but it is important to observe that these take no share in the production of natural contraction in the healthy body. It was long sup- posed impossible to observe the effect of stimuli on the muscular tissue when isolated from the nervous ; and the fact, that the artificial stimuli which induced contraction when applied to a muscle itself, were the same with those which induced it when applied to the motor nerves, was considered sufficient proof that in the former case the effect was produced through the medium of nervous tissue still mingled with the muscular. But this question has been brought to an issue by the positive observation that fragments of the fibre of voluntary muscle, entirely isolated from every extraneous tissue, whether nerve or vessel, may be made to contract in obedience to a stimulus topically applied to them. When such fragments are examined, they are found to contract first of all where they have sustained mechanical injury, viz., at their broken extremities; and, if water be brought into contact with them, it is absorbed, and thereby excites them to contractions, which commence at their surface.'" The same * Water lias long been known as a rapid exhauster of the contractility of muscles. "Rigidity is produced almost instantaneously if warm water be injected into the arteries of a muscle. The flesh under these circumstances, becomes pale, increased in bulk, and suddenly hardens. The operation of crimping fish consists in dividing the muscular fibre before it has become rigid, and immersing it in spring water, a small part treated in this manner contracts and hardens within five minutes."—Mayo, ' Physiol.,' p. 38. It exhausts contractility by inducing violent contraction, by which the fibre is often disorganised.Ill LOCAL STIMULATION. thing is frequently to be observed under a different form. A particle of foreign matter, as a hair or a piece of dust, may be included by design or accident in the field of the microscope, so as to touch the side of a fibre at a single point. When this happens, the fibre will often exhibit a contraction, so plainly limited to the point touched, as to give unequivocal proof of its being the result of the irritation of pressure. Chemical substances may be seen to act similarly, if they be not so powerful as to destroy the texture of the part; and it is probable that electricity has a like agency. These interesting phenomena may be observed more or less satis- factorily in all animals whose fibres retain their contractility for a sufficient length of time after removal from the body ; and the Crab and Lobster will be found very favourably adapted for the purpose. In many reptiles, and fish also, the steps occur slowly enough to be adequately scrutinised. The facts in question can admit only of one explanation, if it be conceded that the muscular tissue has been here separated from the nervous ; and certainly that separation has been effected, unless the nervous tubules send off from their terminal loops a set of fibrils which penetrate the sarcolemma, and diffuse themselves through the contractile material within ; a supposition for which there exists, at present, no foundation in the observations of the most diligent investigators of this subject. They will, therefore, probably, be regarded as conclusive proof that contractility is a pro- perty inherent in the very structure of muscle, and capable of being excited to action independently of the instrumentality of nerves. [See ante, p. 39, lines 11 and 12, W.B.] An interesting phenomenon has been pointed out by Dr. Stokes, which, when illustrated by the foregoing observations, we may safely consider as an example of contraction in the living body in answer to a physical stimulus. In various cases of phthisis, and, indeed, in all cases attended with emaciation, a sharp tap with the fingers on any muscular part is instantly followed by a contraction, and by the rise of a defined firm swelling, at the point struck, enduring several seconds before it gradually subsides. This is often so prominent as to throw a shadow along the skin, and for the moment it might almost be mistaken for a solid tumour. That it is limited to the point struck is full proof of its being a direct effect of the irritation, and not produced through the medium of nerves ; for a contraction excited in the latter mode would be diffused over the parts to which the nervous twigs irritated were supplied, and would therefore frequently occur in parts at some distance. Having premised these words respecting the stimuli of muscle, we proceed to consider what is known of the phenomena which attend the act of contraction. It is evident that the subject we are now approaching is one of primary importance, because on the positive information regarding it must chiefly depend our means of judging of the conflicting hypotheses as to the nature and laws of action of the contractile force. A muscle, when contracted, is firmer than before; but this rigidity is propor- tioned rather to the intensity of the contractile force exerted than to the amount ofPHENOMENA OF CONTRACTION. 112 shortening occasioned by it. The circumstance, however, has led to the belief that the act is accompanied with a compression of the substance of the muscle into a smaller compass ; but it is, on the contrary, well ascertained that it has gained in thickness what it has lost in length. The experiments by which this fact is attested have been often repeated, and their general results accord well together. If a muscular mass be made to contract by means of galvanism in a closed vessel full of water, but furnished with a very delicate tube, the slightest diminution of bulk would be at once indicated by the fall of the water within the tube ; but the water, under these circumstances, is found to retain its level. Mr. Mayo varied this experiment by selecting the heart of a Dog,4' which, continuing to beat during some time, was in this way distinctly seen to undergo no change of size. The familiar practice of accelerating the flow from the vein at the elbow by desiring the patient to contract the muscles of the fore-arm, does not, as is sometimes imagined, show any diminution of their bulk, but only a forcible increase of their lateral dimensions, by which the deep veins are compressed within the inelastic sheath of fascia, and the blood diverted into the superficial channels. In those muscles which have a bulging centre or belly, as the biceps of the arms the fibres are arranged in a curved form, and during contraction must tend towards a straight line in the direction of the axis of the muscle. In such instances the bloodvessels that traverse their interstices must be in some degree compressed. If we examine under the microscope the contracted state of a morsel of the sarcous tissue, we find it to present essentially the same characters as that of the entire organ, a shortening in length, with a corresponding increase in thickness • and this is true, however minute the fragment may happen to be. This is all that can be said in general of the visible features of this remarkable phenomenon. Late investigations, instead of explaining the manner in which contraction is effected, by showing its dependence on forces previously understood, have only served to display the inadequacy of the coarse and mechanical hypotheses, that physiologists have been so prone to confide in, and to make it more than probable that they must ever be content to repose upon the fact above stated, as the simplest which the most refined microscopical analysis will ever disclose. All muscle retains its contractility for a longer or shorter period after its separation from the body, or after death. During this period contractions may be excited by the nervous, and all other stimuli, which we can apply to it; and it is certain that these contractions are the same in their nature with those occurring in the living body under natural influences. Being also easy of inspection, they are admirably suited to the display of the minute changes occurring in muscle during its active state. The muscle with striped fibres is peculiarly adapted for the display of these changes ; for, its texture not being homogeneous, but marked throughout with perfect regularity into spaces or particles so minute as to require to be very highly mag- * ' Anat. and Pliys. Comment.,' vol. i., p. 12.CONTRACTION ULTIMATELY MOLECULAR. 113 nified before they can be even seen at all, the anatomist is provided with the means of detecting movements, which, without this circumstance, must have remained concealed. When a piece, retaining its contractility, is torn up into its elementary fibres, the fragments of these, when placed in water, are seen to undergo a slow movement at certain points, especially where they have suffered violence, as at their broken extremities. This movement consists of a shortening and thickening of the material composing the fibre, as is shown by the general outline of the part, but especially by the appearances visible in its interior. The transverse stripes, both light and dark, become longer and thinner: in other words, the discs expand in circumference, flatten, and approximate to one another; or, to use another form of expression, the fibrillee become shorter and thicker, both in the particles composing them and the material connecting those particles. (Fig. 49, p 115.) These changes are always local, or partial; and it is most evident, from the characters they constantly present, that they are not limited to any determinate regions, points, or segments, but occur indifferently wherever the exciting cause may chance to be exerted. Neither discs nor fibriilse appear to have the smallest share, as aggregations of particles bearing those particular forms, in producing the phenomena of contraction. A contraction is never bounded to a particular number of discs or fibrillas, and is never accurately limited by the interval between two discs. It constantly happens, that, at the edge of the contracted part, several discs are only partially engaged in it. A contraction generally, when commencing at the broken end of a fibre, occupies its whole width there; but, when it commences at the border of the fibre, it may be confined to a portion of many discs: and, further, the contractile force is never exerted along the whole length of a fibre or fibrilla at once. A contraction excited in an elementary fibre by the contact of a hair extends into the mass equally in all directions, as we might suppose it would do, if the mass were homogeneous. An attentive study of these interesting phenomena will lead to the conviction, that, in the bare fact of contraction, the build of the fibre is an item of no importance whatever: the exquisite symmetry displayed in the apposition of its component particles is, as it were, disregarded and overlooked; while the whole process is to be referred to the material itself, the ultimate tissue, whose property is contractility. This property appears to reside both in the particles and the substance connecting them. The ultimate movements, therefore, on which contraction depends, whatever they may consist in, are molecular, and far beyond the reach of sense. It will be perceived that this view of the subject is the only one which can harmonise the fact of contraction in voluntary muscle with the same phenomenon in structures which have no complicated internal arrangement of particles, as, for example, in the unstriped fibre; and the contractility manifested by fibrine..MINUTE MOVEMENTS OF CONTRACTION. 114 immediately after coagulation, is a property too nearly allied to the contractility of muscle (a form of fibrine) not to give it additional credibility. In regarding contractility, therefore, as a property of the living muscular fibre in general, it is meant that it resides in it as a property without which it would not be muscle; and in such a manner, that no particle, however microscopic, can be detached from muscle which does not of itself, and independently of the rest, possess this property as long as it possesses vitality. Of the Differences between the Minute Movements of Muscle in Passive and Active Contraction. In passive contraction.—It is perhaps impossible in the higher animals to observe the nature of the microscopic movements occurring in muscle in its ordinary state or during its passive shortening ; but, in the lower and smaller forms of life, this may sometimes be accomplished. It may always appear doubtful, however, whether any contraction that may be here witnessed be entirely of the passive kind, and consequently the movements here noticed are not worthy of implicit reliance. But it is more easy, and quite as satisfactory, to bring a muscle under inspection, which is still in situ and in equilibrium with its antagonists : in such, contractile force is being still exerted, though its full effects are prevented from taking place. This may be done in various small animals: perhaps the tail of small fish, or of the tadpole of the common Frog, is the best adapted for the purpose. In the latter, deprived of its integument, we have obtained such a view, and have found the contraction to be quite uniform throughout, the transverse stripes being stationary and equidistant. This is nothing more than might have been expected on a priori grounds. The contraction, being the effect of the passive exercise of the property shared equally by all parts of the tissue, would be equal in equal masses ; and, as the elementary fibres are of precisely equal width and substance from end to end, no part of them could predominate in action as long as only the equable stimulus coincident with their natural state of tension were applied. It may be concluded, therefore, that" passive contraction is attended by a movement absolutely uniform throughout the whole mass of an elementary fibre, or of a muscle. In active contraction, the case is far otherwise, as may now be considered proved by a considerable body of evidence. It might be argued, prior to direct proof, that active contraction must be partial, at least, at its commencement, because the stimuli which occasion it cannot, in their very nature, be applied to every particle of the fibre at one and the same instant of time. Certain features of the phenomena witnessed under the microscope in fragments115 APPROXIMATION OF THE STRIDE. removed from the body, and contracting in water, have a close bearing on the present question. It has been already said, that such contractions are uniformly partial; but they present two further varieties, either remaining in the part where they first occur, or leaving it as they advance to others in the neighbourhood. The accidental circumstances under which the fragments are placed, explain these varieties. In the former case, the ends of the fragments happen to be freely movable, and are drawn towards each other, according to the amount of contraction occurring in particular spots ; and, as the contractile force leaves these spots and engages others, the ends continue to approximate, the parts once contracted remaining so, because there is no force to extend them. Hence the contraction appears permanent. In the latter case, certain parts of the fibre (as its broken extremities) are fixed more or less firmly, so as to offer a resistance to the contraction that takes place; this resistance enabling the contractile force advancing to new parts to obliterate the traces of contraction in the parts in which it is subsiding, by stretching them. The ends usually become fixed in consequence of their being the first to thicken from Fragment of an elementary fibre (from the Eel) partially contracted in water. Magnified 300 diameters :—a, Uncontracted part, b, Con- tracted part, along the border of which the sarcolemma is raised from the surface by the water that has been absorbed, that has there- by caused the contraction, and by it has been expelled from the contractile mass. ftg. 49. contraction, and from their thus receiving the pressure of the lamina of mica or glass with which it is requisite to cover the object; and they are the first to contract, because irritated by being broken, and by the water, which is absorbed soonest where the sheath is deficient. This fixing of the ends brings the fibres in question nearly into the condition under which they exist in the living body, where it has already been explained that there is always a resistance to be overcome in active contraction. This particular variety of the phenomenon, therefore, deserves special study. Those animals whose muscles are most tenacious of their contractility are the best suited for examination; and, among these, the young Crab or Lobster may be most easily obtained. In an elementary fibre from the claw, laid out on glass, and then covered with a wet lamina of mica, the following phenomena are always to be observed. The ends become first contracted and fixed. Then contractions commence at isolated spots along the margin of the fibre, which they cause to bulge. At first, they only engage a very limited amount of the mass, spreading into its interior equally in all directions, and being marked by a close approximation of the transverse stripes. R"WAVES" OF CONTRACTION. 116 These contractions pull upon the remainder of the fibre only in the direction' of its length, so that along its edge the transverse stripes in the intervals are very much widened and distorted. These contractions are never stationary, but oscillate from end to end, relinquishing on the one hand what they gain on the other. When they are numerous along the same margin, they interfere most irregularly with one another, dragging one another as though striving for the mastery, the larger ones continually overcoming the smaller; then subsiding as though spent, stretched again by new spots of contraction; and again, after a short period of repose, engaged in their turn by some advancing wave: this is the first stage of the phenomenon. (Fig. 50.) At a subsequent stage, the ends of the fibre commonly cease to be fixed, in consequence of the intermediate portions, by their contraction, receiving some of the pressure of the glass. The contractions, therefore, increasing in number and extent, gradually engage the whole substance of the fibre, which then is reduced to at least one-third of its original length. The muscular tissue in these animals is comparatively tough; but, where it is more fragile, as in the Frog, it may give way in the intervals between spots of ; Border of an elementary fibre of a young Crab, showing a spot of contraction, and the sarco- II lemma elevated in the form of bullse by the expressed water. Magnified 300 diameters. FIG. 50. contraction, and become ruptured and disorganised in various degrees.* In fishes, we have seen a succession of phenomena similar to what has been described in the Crab; waves of contraction advancing and receding, but gradually augmenting in bulk, till the whole fibre was finally contracted. (Fig- 51.) In all these examples, as long as the ends of the fragment are fixed, and will not yield to the convellent force, that force is seen to be exerted in a momentary manner in successive portions of the mass. In proportion as they yield to it, the resistance which enabled the contraction of new parts to stretch those from which it was receding is removed, and the appearances of contraction remain. A distinction is required between the contractile force and the contraction resulting from its exercise. The latter will be permanent, if no force from without be exerted to obliterate it by stretching; for a contracted muscle has no power of extending itself, there is no repellent force between its molecules. From these phenomena, therefore, it is possible to eliminate the appearances resulting from a subsided force, and to judge of the mode and duration of action of the force itself. Thus sifted, they prove * ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1840, p. 490, pi. xix., fig. 75 and ante, p. 32.TETANIC CONTRACTION. 117 that, even when directly stimulated by water after removal from the body, a muscle contracts in successive portions, never in its totality at once; and that no ^particle of it is capable of exhibiting an active contraction for more than an instant of time. The appearances presented by muscle that has been ruptured by its own inordinate contraction in fatal tetanus, in the human subject, will supply the link wanting to connect the foregoing phenomena with those occurring in healthy contraction during life : for tetanic spasm differs from sustained voluntary contraction, only in its amount and protracted duration, and in its being independent of the will, none of which circumstances are of essential importance in regard to the nature of the act of contraction itself. The muscles are so arranged in the body, that no amount of contraction which the mechanism of the bony and ligamentous framework will permit one of them to undergo, can by possibility occasion the rupture of an antagonist, provided it remain relaxed : to be ruptured, the antagonist must be itself contracted. But a muscle, if contracted beyond its natural amount, may be so resisted by mechanical Stages of compaction seen on one occasion in an elementary fibre of the Skate. The uppermost state is that previous to the commencement of active contraction. a, a, a, Successive " waves " of contraction seen moving along one margin of the fibre, marked by a bulging of the margin, by an approximation of the transverse stripes, and by a consequent darkening of the spots. b, b, b, Similar "waves" still moving along the fibre, but engaging its whole thickness. FIG. 51. powers, in or out of the body, as to rupture itself. Hence, the contraction of a muscle is a necessary condition, and generally the essential cause of its own rupture: the other condition being a force greater than the tenacity of the ruptured part, holding its ends asunder; which latter may be either the active or passive contraction of antagonists, or mere mechanical resistance: but it is evident, that, for a muscle to be ruptured by its own contraction, that contraction must be partial, as is shown in the case of the Frog's muscle, already mentioned. An examination of muscle ruptured in tetanus is found to bear out these observations in the fullest manner.* The elementary fibres present numerous bulges of a fusiform shape, in which the transverse stripes are very close together. These swellings, or contracted parts, are separated from one another by intervals of various lengths, in which the fibre has either entirely given way, or is more or less stretched and disorganised. These appearances are met with after all contractility has departed; they are the vestiges of the spasm during life. Yet in other muscles, which have been likewise convulsed, but not ruptured, they are not found. Their * ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1841, p. 69, and pi. ii. See ante, p. 53 et seq. R 2SOUND AND HEAT IN CONTRACTION: 118 presence is, therefore, the result of the rupture. They admit only of the following explanation : the contractile force has operated at the points found contracted, and, by its excess, the intermediate portions have been stretched to laceration. Having once given way, the contracted parts have become isolated, and can no longer have been extended after the subsidence of the contractile force ; they consequently retain the form and appearances they possessed, when surprised, as it were, by the rupture, they have themselves produced, of the intervening parts. Supposing, for a moment, that active contraction were an universal and equable act, and that, by the superior power of an antagonist, a weak muscle had been ruptured, the appearances resulting would manifestly be entirely different from those now detailed. The fibres beyond the ruptured point would have their transverse stripes uniformly approximated. It may be concluded from the preceding facts (1st) that active contraction never occurs in the entire mass of a muscle at once, nor in the whole of any one elementary fibre, but is always partial at any one instant of time ; (2nd) that no active contraction of a muscle, however apparently prolonged, is more than instantaneous in any one of its parts or particles ; and, therefore, (3rd) that the sustained active contraction of a muscle is an act compounded of an infinite number of partial and momentary contractions, incessantly changing their place, and engaging new parts in succession, for every portion of the tissue must take its due share in the act. Two phenomena yet remain to be mentioned, which, by admitting of a satisfactory explanation on this view of the subject, give strong testimony to its correctness. The first is the muscular sound, heard on applying the ear to a muscle in action. It resembles, according to the apt simile of Dr. Wollaston,"* the distant rumbling of carriage-wheels; or rather, perhaps, an exceedingly rapid and faint tremulous vibration, which, when well marked, has a metallic tone. It is the sound of friction, and appears to be occasioned by those movements of the neighbouring fibres upon one another, with which the partial contractions must be attended in their incessant oscillations. The other phenomenon is one whose existence has been recently ascertained by MM. Becquerel and Beeschet,f viz., that a muscle, during contraction, augments in temperature. They have found this increase to be usually more than 1° Fahr.; but sometimes, when the exertion has been continued for five minutes (as by the biceps of the arm, in sawing a piece of wood), it has been double that amount. This develop- ment of heat may be in a great measure attributable to, and even a necessary consequence of, the friction just alluded to. * ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1811. t "Becherches sur la Chaleur Animale," ' Archiv. du Museum,' torn, i., p. 402. [" 28 May, Friday,.. Saw Bkeschbt's and Becquerel's experiments on heat of muscles and other parts, but the elevation of temperature during contraction was not shown, owing, as they said, to a defect of the instrument. I had the wire through my hiceps,—inserted by Bkeschet." " Paris Notes," 1841. W. B.]119 MUSCULAR CONTRACTION. Thus it would appear that in active contraction there is a disturbance of the state of equilibrium, or rest, by the application of a special stimulus to certain portions only of each fibre; by which first these portions, then others in succession, are made to contract strongly, and to pull on the extremities of the fibre through the medium of the parts not so contracted. The contractions undulate along the fibre from the point stimulated, and there is always a considerable part of each fibre uncontracted. This will account for the remarkable fact that detached fragments of the voluntary fibre will contract by two-thirds of their length, though an entire muscle, in its natural situation, cannot shorten by more than one-third. This great capacity of contraction in the tissue would be without a purpose if it were not that it only admits of momentary exertion, and therefore requires that in the organ successive parts should take up the act, and by so doing, render it, as a whole, continuous. In an active fibre the contracting parts are continually dragging on those in which the contractile force has just subsided, and which intervene between them and the extremities of the fibre. These are thereby instantly stretched, and come to serve the temporary purpose of a tendon ; but one which resists extension more by its passive contractility than by its mere tenacity. It is these parts which in tetanic spasm suffer laceration ; which happens in consequence of the contraction excited by the vis nervosa being then too powerful to be resisted by the passive contractility. The preceding account of the minute changes occurring during contraction rests on data furnished by the striped form of muscular fibre; but there is nothing contained in it which seems at variance with the little that is positively known regarding the contractions of the other form. The differences between the contractions of the two varieties are almost certainly confined to the manner of exercise, and do not extend to the essential nature of the act. Though the unstriped fibre has not been studied by the microscope, during its active state, with the same success as the other, yet the similarity of the gross changes observed in it by the naked eye, to those seen in voluntary muscle, forbid us to doubt the identity of the phenomenon in all that is essential to it as an act of contraction. From the knowledge we possess, we are perhaps entitled to hazard some further conjectures respecting the differences in the mode of exercise of the contractile power in different cases. In whatever that mysterious power may consist, it would appear that the structural modifications of the two kinds of fibres are intimately connected with the manner in which it is capable of being exerted. Wherever the striated structure occurs, we witness an aptitude for quick, energetic, and rapidly repeated movements; while, where it is deficient, they are sluggish, progressive, and more sustained. The varieties in the character of contractions performed by striated muscles are very striking, especially that of the heart, as compared with the prolonged action of the voluntary muscles. In both, there is an alternate momentary action and repose of every contractile particle : but in the heart the contraction is universal at one120 ZIGZAG HYPOTHESIS. instant, and the repose equally universal at the next; while, in the prolonged action of the voluntary muscles, contractions of certain parts of each fibre always co-exist with repose of other parts."" The contractions of voluntary muscles differ greatly from one another in duration, energy, and extent. Dr. Wollaston was of opinion that the phenomenon of the muscular sound affords a proof that the duration of a muscle's contraction depends on the application to it of a succession of distinct impulses; and this idea, according- very nearly, as it does, with the later evidence of observation, appears, on the whole, the most satisfactory that has been advanced on this abstruse subject. He also thought that the intensity of a contraction corresponds with the rapidity with which these impulses are transmitted to it • and this likewise may be, in part, true. But there is, in addition to this, in all probability, a difference in the intensity of the stimulus itself in different cases, producing a difference in the size of each wave, a difference in the amount of contractile energy exerted in each, and a difference in the rapidity with which the waves oscillate along the fibre. The extent of the contraction (the duration and intensity being the same) will manifestly depend on the amount of the length of the fibre which is contracted at once; but we are ignorant whether this variation in amount is effected by a variety in the number of waves, or in the extent of the fibre engaged by each of them. In describing the white fibrous tissue, we remarked the facility with which its fibres are thrown into a wavy or zigzag course when their ends are brought near together. The same thing occurs in the nerves, and may be observed in almost any flexible non-elastic cord. The muscular fibre easily assumes this zigzag course, when its ends are approximated by any other force than its own contractility. It may thus be at any time thrown into zigzags, long after it is quite dead, and has lost all its contractility ; and, in general, such zigzags occur at pretty regular intervals, deter- mined by the force employed and the flexibility of the tissue ; and, when several fibres are lying in contact, their zigzags usually correspond. Now, such zigzags have been frequently observed in the living fibre, of course accompanied with an approximation of its extremities; and some physiologists, mistaking the effect for the cause, have concluded the zigzags to have occasioned the shortening. Dr. Hales, and, long after him, Peevost and Dumas, examined this appearance in the flat abdominal muscle of a Frog, laid on glass, and made to contract by a galvanic shock; and, noticing that the angles of the zigzags corresponded in many places with the transit of nerves across the fibres, they concluded that an electrical current, passing from one to the other, occasioned the flexion of the fibres at the points of contact. This hypothesis, when first proposed, attracted great regard, from its appearance * By tlie expression " universal at one instant," we do not mean ahsolutely so; for observation, and the presence of the muscular sound both declare that the contraction, even of the heart, though so apparently momentary, is progressive.SCHWANN'S EXPELUMENTS. 121 of simplicity, and from its falling in with the then favourite notion of the identity of the nervous influence with some form of electricity; and without sufficient caution it was very generally adopted. The facts previously stated, however, completely over- throw it, and render an explanation of the causes of the error scarcely more than historically interesting. It would appear that the galvanic shock, when passed through a mass of fibres, affects them unequally, some only being contracted by it: but these, by their cellular and vascular union with others, draw towards each other the ends of the uncontracted ones, and, of course, throw them into zigzag ; and it is most natural that the passage of nerves or vessels across them should determine the flexures to take place at this or that particular point. When some fibres are straight and others zigzag, and yet the ends of all equidistant, it is clear that the straight ones are the short or contracted; the zigzag, the long or relaxed. So, also, when a living muscle is laid bare in situ, the air excites tremors and a zigzag appearance on its surface, by the different fibres taking on non-simultaneous contractions. Schwann* contrived an apparatus by which he could estimate the varying force of contraction which a muscle could evince under the same stimulus (an electric shock of a given power applied to the nerve), when its length was varied, by its passive contractility being balanced by different weights. He sought to discover whether the contractile force was increased as the contracting parts approached each other more nearly. If he had found it so augmented, there would have been some reason for connecting contractility with the other forces of attraction with which we are acquainted, the power of which increases with the nearness of the points attracted, in the ratio of the square of the distance. But the results of several ingenious experiments were quite opposed to this notion; proving that, within certain limits, the power of a muscle to contract under a stimulus is greater in proportion as it is less contracted, and that it diminishes as the amount of contraction increases. Considering, as we are perhaps entitled to do, that an equal mass of each fibre, say one-third, was in contraction at any one instant by each application of the stimulus, we may reduce the result of these experiments to an estimate of the passive contractile power under different amounts of stretching; for then the varying amount of aggregate shortening under the same stimulus would indicate the varying amount of resistance to elongation afforded by the intermediate two-thirds to the same amount of active contractile force in the one-third. It is clear, from that which precedes, that contractility is a property residing in the sarcous tissue by virtue of its chemical constitution, and that it is capable of being called into action by other stimuli besides the nervous. That it departs with life, is a proof that those actions of waste and nutrition, concomitant with the flux of life, are essential for its integrity. We know that contractility is exhausted both by disuse of a muscle, and by over-use consequent on over-stimulation; and in no other way can these opposite causes act than by their both interfering with * ' Miiller's Physiology,' by Baly, p. 905.122 ADMISSION OF OXYGEN. healthy nutrition. That they do thus act, is rendered probable by other proofs. It has long been known that cutting off the supply of blood from a muscle destroys its contracting; that unnatural temperature has the same effect; and, in general, that all causes affecting nutrition affect also contractility in the same degree. The contractility of a muscle has also invariably a certain complexion or character connected, we might almost say, with the vigour, but at least with the character, of the nutrient process in the particular muscle. This fact has been ably illustrated by Dr. Marshall Hall,"" who nevertheless is opposed to the great conclusion which we consider to flow from it, that contractility is proportioned to the activity and perfection of the nutrient function. If we suddenly check the supply of nutrient material to the muscles of various animals, in the same state as regards previous stimulation, and in such a manner as not to stimulate the muscles in so doing, we shall find that their contractility, as evidenced by their contracting under a given stimulus, endures through very unequal periods of time. Thus, in the bird it is very evanescent; in the insect, also, it is very evanescent; in the mammal less so ; in the reptile it lingers longer; while in the fish and crustacean it is in general very enduring. The degree in which oxygen is admitted to the tissues in these animals, corresponds in the main with the scale thus designated by the relative endurance of the contractility of their muscles. Nothing is more probable than that the amount of oxygen admitted to the tissues may be taken as a fair estimate of the activity in them of the processes of waste and assimilation. Now, we know that the vitality of the tissues does not cease immediately on their supply of nutriment being cut off; that death of the whole animal, as an individual, is not necessarily attended with simultaneous death of every part; that somatic death gradually follows systemic death, from the functions being no longer concatenated in mutual dependence: and it is entirely consonant with facts to suppose that the endurance of the vital functions in the tissues after systemic death is proportionate to the slowness with which they are ordinarily performed. The close correspondence, therefore, between the duration of contractility and the slowness of the nutrient function in various animals, is a strong evidence of the dependence of the one on the other. And it is extremely interesting to observe, that not only does a less arterial character of the blood co-exist with a more enduring contractility, but also that there is less of it supplied to the muscles, for the above scale corresponds also with that in which animals are ranged in regard to the size of the elementary fibres ; and we have already seen that the vascularity of a muscle is inversely as the thickness of its fibres. Thus we have animals ranged in the same series, whether we estimate it by the duration of contractility, the degree of the oxygenation of the blood and tissues, or the quantity of blood sent to the muscles, viz., birds, insects, mammalia, reptiles, fish, * See article " Irritability," ' Cyclop, of Anat. and Phys.'123 RIGOR MORTIS. and Crustacea. The meaning of this correspondence may be further illustrated by the phenomena of hybernation, in which all the functions are held enchained, and we are certain that nutrition proceeds with extreme languor. In the hybernating animal, contractility is very enduring, as compared with that property in the very same organs when in a state of greater vital activity. Nor must the evident relation subsisting between fibrine and the sarcous tissue, in respect of their vital properties, be passed over in silence. In chemical constitu- tion they may be said to be identical; and there seems no doubt that muscle is formed by the direct deposition in a solid form of the fluid fibrine of the blood, under the elective attraction of the previously existing tissue. Now, in birds, the blood, i.e., its fibrine, coagulates, or assumes the solid form, very quickly when it is with- drawn from the vessels, in mammalia less so, and in reptiles and fishes very tardily, if in these several cases it be placed in similar circumstances. A fatal stroke of lightning, which instantaneously destroys contractility in the muscles, prevents also the coagulation of the blood. In the same person, under health and disease, the blood may vary much in the speed with which it coagulates, according to its chemical constitution, the amount of oxygen accumulated in it, and. the activity of the vital processes; and, after death, the coagulability of the blood, and the contractility of the muscles, have a general correspondence, which has been even made the basis of an hypothesis, ascribing the rigor mortis, or the dying act of contraction, to coagulation of the blood.* It will be subsequently explained f that the fibrine of the blood, on becoming solid, acquires for a brief period the property of contractility ; and this in very different degrees, according to varieties in the same causes which affect the speed of its coagulation. No one will pretend that this is not as much a property of living fibrine when solid, as that of coagulating is of the same substance when fluid; and the correspondence between the coagulated living fibrine of the blood and the living sarcous tissues in chemical constitution, in the possession of contractility, and in the modes in which that vital property in both is affected by similar causes, adds strong confirmation to the opinion we have expressed, that contractility is a property of the living muscular substance as such. But contractility does not vary in its durability alone ; it also presents great differences in regard to its aptness to excitation by stimuli: and it would appear that these characters are always, cceteris paribus, in an inverse relation to one another. In birds and insects, which have for the most part to sustain themselves by very energetic and rapid muscular movements in the air, the excitability is extreme ; and certainly the motions performed by these creatures far exceed in precision, regularity, and frequency those of any other animals. The rigor mortis, or stiffening of the body after death, is due to a contraction of the muscles. If the contractility of a muscle be enduring, the rigor comes on late * Oepila, B^clard, and Treviranus hold this view, which Mulleu seems to regard as not untenable, t 1 Phys. Anat. and Physiology of Man,' Vol. II, Ch. XXVII, " On the Blood," S124 VARIETIES OF MUSCULAR MOVEMENT. and lasts long; but if it be evanescent and its character excitable, the rigor begins very soon and quickly terminates. This is true in different individuals and classes of animals, and corresponds entirely with what we have already said of the varieties of this property. Its cause is obscure, and may be complex ; but its resemblance to the contraction of fibrine after recent coagulation is too obvious to be overlooked. Its nature is shown by the preceding observations (p. 115). We have the power, at will, under certain limitations, of producing, checking, and regulating the amount of contraction in the voluntary muscles; and, as a necessary part of this power, we are able to appreciate, by certain sensations originating in the muscles, what precise degree of contraction is present in each. This latter is only that modification of common sensibility which belongs to muscle. It has been termed the muscular sense. In it we possess a most important aid to the sense of touch, being able accurately to vary the position and amount of pressure on external objects in voluntary accordance with the impressions these communicate to the sensorium through the tactile nerves ; and by it we are able to estimate with nicety the amount of muscular power required to balance various resistances, as weight, &c. In general, these resistances must be brought into relation with the muscular sense through the organ of touch, which is adapted to this purpose by its superficial position on the body. But the powers of the muscular sense, isolated from tact, are exhibited, in its enabling one to estimate the weight of a tumour developed in the interior of the limb, and in general the resistance afforded by the weight of one part of the body, or the action of one muscle or set of muscles, relatively to that of another. Hence a principal source of the marvellous power which all animals possess of associating the various parts of their bodies in numberless combinations of harmonious movement. Of some varieties of Muscular Movement. Having described the differences between the movements of active and passive contraction we shall now be more able to refer to their proper causes those varieties of movement by which certain muscles or classes of muscles are distinguished. In briefly adverting to these, we shall have to glance at some collateral considerations regarding the mode of their connexion with the nervous system, which cannot be fully understood without reference to what will be afterwards said under that head. The action of the sphincters of the anus and bladder seems, at first, peculiar. They are constantly contracted, except during the passage of the contents; and yet no fatigue attends this persistent action. The explanation is very simple. They remain contracted unless the contained matters are forced within them by a superior power. Now, their mass, and therefore their contractility, is superior to that of the wall of the cavity above; consequently their passive contraction endures while that125 VERMICULAR ACTION. of the parts above is being gradually mastered by the accumulation of the faeces or urine. But, when these excretions at length excite active contraction in the walls of the cavity containing them, this overcomes the passive contraction of the sphincters, and the evacuation occurs. The sphincters have striped fibres and voluntary nerves, by means of which we can for a time add active to passive contraction, and thus retard the expulsion; but, as the accumulation proceeds, this power is diminished or lost, and the sphincters yield. The levator and sphincter ani frequently aid the accumulation of the fasces by temporary active contractions, by which the fasces tending to dilate the sphincter are pushed backwards for a while. The rectum is thus preserved empty until the period immediately preceding defalcation. In paralysis of the lower part of the body from disease or injury of the spine, the voluntary power of the sphincters is lost, and the fasces and urine pass involuntarily. But this is no proof, as is commonly imagined, that the ordinary contraction of the sphincter is an active one, performed in obedience to a continuous nervous stimulus. The difference is, that it can now undergo no active contraction through the nerves, to counteract temporarily, and in obedience to the will, the active contractions of the parts above, which are not under the influence of volition, and are not paralysed. Hence, whenever the faeces are driven against it, it gives way, against the patient's will, and (if the sensitive nerves are also paralysed) without his knowledge. Contractions are called peristaltic or vermicular, which advance through a muscle in a slow and progressive manner. When analysed closely, we shall find that they are only a variety of the active contraction already described. If a number of striped fibres are arranged in a long series, and are contracted in succession (as in caterpillars), the resulting movement is vermicular; but in the higher animals it is only in the hollow unstriped muscles that this variety of contraction occurs; and the best example of it is in the alimentary canal. On laying bare the intestines of an animal just killed, we observe successive waves of contraction advancing down the tube, and urging its contents along. They appear to be rendered more active by the contact of the cold air; but may be re-excited, when they have almost subsided, by irritation of the sympathetic ganglia, from which the muscles are supplied with nerves. If a single point of the intestine be touched, a contraction presently occurs there, which moves onwards to a considerable distance, and is often succeeded by others spontaneously arising. It is impossible not to remark the close similitude between these contractions and those visible by the microscope in the striped elementary fibre. We have here on a large scale the wave-like character there exhibited. A contracting voluntas muscle exposed to view exhibits a tremulous motion, and it may be a question how far this may depend on numerous contractions strictly vermicular, affecting successive sets of fibres, but prevented, by their irregularity and want of coincidence through the whole muscle, from appearing so to the eye. When the pectoral muscle is struck, a knot-like contraction often moves off in a slow manner in the direction of the fibres. s 2126 RHYTHMICAL CONTRACTION. Peristaltic contraction is coincident in a large number of contiguous fibres; and its progressive character is more easily perceived in consequence of the arrangement of the fibres around a compressible cavity. The contraction appears more sluggish than other forms; but, as we are ignorant of the length of each unstriped fibre, we cannot say whether this slowness is an advance along each one, or merely from one to another. The contraction exhibited by the muscles in question is always of the peristaltic character, by whatever stimulus excited ; and its type is therefore probably derived from some peculiarity in the fibres themselves, as in their arrangement. But it is remarkable that the stimuli which usually excite it, are applied in succession to different parts, and are thus entirely suited to the production of the peristaltic contraction. We have a striking example of this in the oesophagus, which is simply a tube of transmission, and not intended to delay the food. The pellet, when thrust into it by the muscles of the pharynx, distends its fibres; which, then contracting upon it, propel it into a fresh portion ready to receive it. This in its turn contracts, and urges it along; and so on, until it is conducted to the stomach. In this instance, it is evident that the propelled substance is itself the stimulus to the succesive contractions. This it may be, either by distending the fibres, and so acting locally upon them; or else by impressing the nerves of the membrane touched, in such a way as to excite a nervous stimulus to the muscular coat at each particular part, at the proper moment. As the food is not propelled if the nerves are divided, there can be little doubt that the latter is the true explanation. The contraction of the bladder occurs after a gradual distension, and, though very temporary, is probably of the true peristaltic kind. The more protracted action of the uterus is undeniably so. In pregnant animals this may be as distinctly perceived as in the intestines, and it probably occurs during the gradual development of the muscular structure as pregnancy advances ; but at length a very powerful impulse occasions the expulsion of the young, and the uterus subsequently remains contracted, because no force distends its fibres. The after-pains mark the final efforts of active contraction, Atrophy of the tissue then occurs, as its development had done, in accordance with other laws. Rhythmical contractions are those which succeed one another after regular intervals of repose. The muscles of respiration and the heart exhibit them through life, which would cease if they were intermitted even for a brief period; for the oxygenation of the blood, and the dispersion of that fluid through the substance of the various organs^ must incessantly proceed. Hence neither is an act of the will required for their production, nor could it under any circumstances prevent them. The heart beats independently of our consciousness or control; but the respiratory actions may be hastened, or retarded, at will, though not stopped. This voluntary power is given because these muscles are required in various movements of the body, either alone, or in aid of others; they minister to other functions besides that of127 RHYTHMICAL CONTRACTION. respiration. The voluntary, or irregular action, however, is entirely subordinate to involuntary, and rhythmical. The rhythmical character of the respiratory act is to be explained by reference to the stimulus by which it is ordinarily excited. This is an impression made on the internal surface of the lungs by the deteriorated air, and recurs periodically from the change induced in the inspired air by its contact with the blood in the air-cells. Though the heart is in no respect under voluntary influence, yet emotional and instinctive impulses easily affect it: its action is throbbing, tumultuous, or feeble. These impulses act through the cardiac nerves, which, if stimulated mechanically, will excite contractions in a heart removed from the body, and which has almost ceased to beat; but, under all circumstances, the action of the heart is rhythmical. The cause of the rhythm it is exceedingly difficult to resolve. This variety of contraction is coincident with periodic distension of the cavities, and impressions on their lining membrane. But it continues long after the heart is empty, and its nerves cut. Hence, whatever share these circumstances may have in giving the rhythmical character in the natural condition of the parts, they are certainly not essential to each individual pulse. It is singular that a mechanical stimulus applied once to the heart will often excite a series of contractions after they have ceased, or modify the rhythm of those previously existing; its effects being thus prolonged through many beats.129 ON FIBROUS AND VESICULAR NERVOUS TISSUE. From ' The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' Vol. I, Chapter VIII, pp. 208 to 215. Published April, 1845. Of the Fibrous Nervous Matter. Of the two kinds of nervous matter, the fibrous is that which is most extensively diffused throughout the body. It not only forms a large portion of the nervous centres, either alone or mixed with vesicular matter, but it is the principal constituent of the infinite multitude of nerves which connect the centres with the various tissues and organs. The structure of the fibrous matter should be examined in a Diece of nerve, and in a thin section from the white part of a nervous centre, as the brain or spinal cord. These should be torn with needles, so as to separate and isolate as much as possible the elementary parts, and to remove,, as far as may be practicable, extraneous tissues. The fibrous nervous matter, wherever it is found, consists of fibres which have a definite arrangement. Two kinds of primitive fibre are present in the nervous system, and these we shall distinguish as the tubular fibre, or the nerve-tube, and the gelatinous fibre. The former are infinitely the more numerous ; the latter being found chiefly in the sympathetic system. 1. Of the Tubular Fibre.—When a nerve-tube is perfectly recent, and unaffected by reagents, it presents, if viewed by reflected light, a beautiful pearly lustre, and appears to be quite homogeneous. But if viewed by transmitted light, and with a sufficient magnifying power, a more complicated structure becomes visible in all the largest and best marked specimens. (See fig. 52, a, b, and fig. 53, a.) Most externally is the tubular membrane (a, d d), an homogeneous and probably elastic tissue of extreme delicacy, analogous to the sarcolemma of striped muscle (pp. 23 and 102), and, according to our observation, not presenting any such distinct, longitudinal, or oblique fibres in its composition as have been described by some writers. Within the edge of the tubular membrane, on each side, are seen two thicker and darker130 TUBULAR NERVE FIBRES. lines (a, c, c, b), which appear to mark the outer and inner limits of an inner layer of different composition and refracting power, and which is generally known as the white substance of Schwann. This forms a tube within the tubular membrane. Within the white substance of Schwann is a transparent material, occupying the axis of the nerve-tube (a, a). This has been called by Bemak the fattened band; but a better name for it is that of axis cylinder, employed by Kosenthal and Purkinje. It is evident that the whole of the matter contained in the tubular membrane is extremely soft, for it is found to yield under very slight pressure, and may be readily made to pass from one part of the tube to another. When pressed out (b, h to I), it is apt to assume more or less the appearance and form of globules, which retain the same characters of outline which they possessed in the nerve-tube ; that is, they have B A, Diagram of tubular fibre of a spinal nerve:— a, axis cylinder; b, inner border of white sub- stance ; c, c, outer border of white substance ; d, d, tubular membrane. B, Tubular fibres :—e, in a natural state, show- ing the parts as in A; /, the white substance and axis cylinder interrupted by pressure, while the tubular membrane remains; g, the same with varicosities ; h, various appearances of the white substance and axis cylinder forced out of the tubular membrane by pressure; i, broken end of a tubular fibre, with the white substance closed over it; h, lateral bulging of white substance and axis cylinder from pressure; I, the same more complete ; g', varicose fibres of various sizes from the cerebellum. c, gelatinous fibres from the solar plexus, treated with acetic acid to exhibit their cell- nuclei, b and c magnified 320 diameters. fig. 52. a transparent interior, bounded by a layer of the white substance of Schwann, marked by its double contour. It would appear that the latter structure is particularly apt to form a coating or film over the central material, and thus to isolate it from surrounding tissues. This tendency may be understood by a reference to fig. 52, h to /. When the nerve-tube is placed in ether, the white substance is in part immediately dissolved, and a number of oil-like globules appear both within and without the tubular membrane. (See fig. 53, b). Probably its margarine is dissolved, and the elaine set free in the form of oil-globules. The interior of the tube is also rendered decidedly granular. In water the white substance of Schwann remains undissolved, while the interior of the fibre is frequently, though not always, rendered granular.TUBULAR NERVE FIBRES. 131 The tubular membrane presents the same general characters wherever it is met with. But the white substance of Schwann exhibits much variety as regards its thickness in different parts of the nervous system. In the nerves it is more developed than in the centres; but even in the former it differs a good deal as to thickness. We find it most developed in the ordinary spinal nerves ; in those of pure sense it exists in small quantity. Both these elements of the tubular fibre evidently afford mechanical protection to the substance which forms its axis ; but doubtless one or both of them may have a further physiological office, in insulating the axis, and keeping it distinct from any interference with constituents of neighbouring fibres. The chemical composition of the white substance, being obviously different from that of the axis, sufficiently denotes a difference of function in these two portions of the nerve-tube. The axis cylinder of the nerve-tube, though in general soft and pulpy, is in some instances of firm texture, and when broken projects beyond the white substance. (Fig. 56, c.) It then occasionally exhibits a well-marked fibrous character, and may even split into filaments. Nerve-tubes of the common eel:—a, in water; the delicate line on its exterior indicates the tubular membrane; the dark, double-edged inner one is the white substance of Schwann, slightly wrinkled, b, the same in ether; several oil-globules have coalesced in the interior, and others have accumulated around the exterior of the tube; the white substance has in part disappeared. Magnified 300 diameters. fig. 53. When the tubes are quite fresh, and have been but little disturbed by manipulation, their form is that of a perfect cylinder. Pressure, or separation, is apt to alter their shape by disturbing the position of the contained pulp, pushing more than is natural into some parts of the tube, and consequently diminishing the bulk of the contents in the adjacent parts; so that the latter collapse, whilst the former become distended, enlarged, and even varicose. (Fig- 52, b.) Nerve-tubes, that have been thus affected, sometimes present merely a slight waviness of one or both margins, but more frequently a series of distinct swellings or varicosities separated by con- stricted portions. These swellings are found at very irregular distances from each other, and vary extremely in shape and size. They are much more apt to form upon some nerve-tubes than upon others; and this is apparently owing to a feebleness of the tubular membrane, and perhaps, also, to a less degree of consistence of the contained nervous pulp. In the nerves of special sensation the tubes are very delicate in structure, and very apt to exhibit this change ; and in the fibres of the T132 GELATINOUS NERVE FIBRE. brain and spinal cord the same tendency is observable. It was formerly supposed by Eheenberg, that these varicosities were natural, and existed during life ; and that they afforded a valuable morphological character of the nerves of pure sense, and of the cerebro-spinal centre. Many circumstances, however, oppose this view : thus, the irregularities in the shape, size, and number of the varicosities appear very unlike a natural disposition: in a piece of the brain or spinal cord, which has not been much pressed or torn, the nerve-tubes often exhibit a cylindrical figure, and even in the manipulated specimen the varicose tubes form only a portion. In some nerves, such as those of muscles, the tubes, although not prone to become varicose may be made so by firm pressure and violence in manipulation; and in the nerve-tubes of young animals, the tissues of which are more tender, and contain more abundant water, this change is particularly apt to take place. The nerve-tubes, for the most part, lie parallel to each other, always without branching, and, if we except their terminal looping in other textures, without any inosculation. This very interesting and important feature in the anatomy of the nerve- e ^sgsa -^erve "vesicles from the Gasserian ganglion of the human subject :—a, A globular one with defined border; b, its nucleus; c, its nucleolus. d, Caudate vesicle, e, Elongated vesicle, with two groups of pigment particles. /, Vesicle sur- rounded by its sheath, or capsule, of nucleated I'j - ,f i particles, <y, The same, the sheath only being in ' ^- <j —^ '- ^ focus. Magnified 300 diameters. FIG. 54. tubes was recognised long ago by Fontana, and has been confirmed by nearly every subsequent observer. It may be seen in the nervous centres, as well as in the nerves themselves. In the latter it may be well demonstrated by examining a piece of nerve on a dark ground as an opaque object. The primitive fibres, viewed in this way, appear as so many transparent tubes, containing an exquisitely delicate, soft, pearly- white material. The tubular fibres vary in diameter from i-6Votn to even Toooota °f an inch ; but their average width is from awoth to ^troth of an inch. 2. Of the Gelatinous Nerve-fibre,—This term is applied by Henle to certain fibres found principally in the sympathetic nerve. They are flattened, soft, and homo- geneous in appearance; containing numerous cell-nuclei, some of which are round, others oval; some situated in the centre of the fibre, others adhering to either edge; their longest diameter being generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the nerve. These nuclei are arranged at nearly equal distances, and frequently exhibit distinct nucleoli. (See fig. 52, c.) Sometimes these fibres show a disposition to split into very delicate fibriike. Acetic acid dissolves the fibre, leaving the nuclei unchanged. These fibres, containing nothing analogous to the white substance of Schwann, are133 VESICULAR NERVOUS MATTER. devoid of that whiteness which characterises the tubular fibre; and it would seem that the grey colour of certain nerves depends chiefly upon the presence of a large proportion of the gelatinous fibres. Hence they are sometimes called grey fibres. The mode of connexion of the gelatinous fibres with the elements of the nervous centres is, as yet, quite unknown. They are found in considerable numbers in what are called the roots of the sympathetic, or the communications of that nerve with the spinal nerves : it has been supposed by Valentin that they are continuous with certain elements of the vesicular nervous matter. These fibres are smaller, in general, than the tubular fibres ; their diameter ranges between the ^th and the Toi)otn °^ an "lcn- They resemble very much the fibres of unstriped muscle. Ganglion globules, with their processes, nuclei, and nucleoli: — a, a, From the deeper part of the grey matter of the con- volutions of the cerebellum. The larger processes are directed towards the surface of the organ, b, Another from the cere- bellum, c, d, Others from the post, horn of grey matter of the dorsal region of the cord. These contain pigment, which sur- rounds the nucleus in c. In all these speci- mens the processes are more or less broken. Magnified 200 diameters. fig. 55. Of the Vesicular Nervous Matter. This is distinguished by its dark reddish grey colour, and soft consistence: it is found in the nervous centres, but never in nerves, properly so-called, and it is always supplied by a considerable plexus of blood-vessels. The essential elements of the grey nervous matter are vesicles or cells, containing nuclei and nucleoli. They have been also called nerve or ganglion globules. The wall of each vesicle consists of an exceedingly delicate membrane, containing a soft but tenacious finely granular mass. The nucleus of the cell is generally eccentric, much smaller than the containing vesicle, and adherent to some part of its interior. Its structure is apparently the same as that of the outer vesicle. The nucleolus is a minute, remarkably clear, and brilliant body, also vesicular, inclosed within the nucleus. It forms a most characteristic and often conspicuous part of the nerve-vesicle. t 2134 CAUDATE NERVE VESICLES. The ordinary or prevailing form of these elements is that of a globular vesicle. So soft and compressible are they, however, that a good deal of diversity of shape s manifest in them, by reason of the compression they suffer as they lie packed together in situ. Hence some are spherical, others ovoidal, or ellipsoidal. In some vesicles we find, external to the nucleus, particles of a coarser kind, which are accumulated in a mass, frequently of a semilunar form. These are pigment granules ; their presence gives a dark colour to a portion of the vesicle. Sometimes we find two groups of pigment granules in one vesicle. They are usually of a reddish or yellowish brown colour. Another form of nerve-vesicle is characterised by one or more tail-like processes fig. £6. a. A large caudate nerve-vesicle, with diverging and branching processes, some of which, b, are seen to pass off into extremely minute filaments. These seem to bear a very close resem- blance to the central part of a tubular fibre, c, which is prolonged some way beyond the broken edge of its tubular membrane and white substance, d. At e, are some small nerve-vesicles, stellate in form, doubtless from numerous processes given off from them. /, Several extremely small nerve-tubes, some of which are varicose. This figure exhibits the great variety of size of the vesicles and tubes, a, Is from the posterior horn of the grey matter of the spinal marrow, and is magnified only 120 diameters, while the vesicles and tubes at e, from the grey matter of the lower end of the cord, are magnified 300 diameters, d, Is also from the spinal marrow, and is magnified 200 diameters. extended from it, and to such nerve-vesicles we may apply the term caudate. They possess the nucleus and the nucleolus, as in the more simple form; and contain one or more masses of pigment, which are often of very considerable size. Both the vesicles and their caudate processes vary greatly in size and shape. The largest nerve-vesicles are found among those of this kind. Sometimes there is but a single process from a vesicle ; or there may be two, proceeding from opposite sides ; or there may be several, extending in various directions. There is great difference in the shape of these caudate vesicles, as may be observed in figs. 55 and 56, where different varieties of them have been represented. In point of structure, the caudate processes are exceedingly delicate and finely granular, like the interior of the vesicle, with which135 NERVE VESICLES. they distinctly seem to be continuous. Such is the delicacy of these processes, that they readily break off; in general, very close to the vesicle. Sometimes, however, one or more of them may be traced to a considerable distance, and will be found to divide into two or into three branches, which undergo a further subdivision, and give off some extremely fine transparent fibres (fig. 56, b), the connexion of which with the other Blending of the vesicular and fibrous nervous matter in the dentate body of the cerebellum :— a, Ganglion globule, with its nucleus and nucle- olus, b, Nerve-tube, slightly varicose, in close contact with the ganglion globule, b', Smaller nerve-tubes. These parts all lie in a finely granular matrix interspersed with nuclei, c. B, Vesicular and fibrous matter of the laminae of the cerebellum:—a, Ganglion globule, b, Very, minute nerve-tubes traversing a finely granular matrix, in which are numerous rounded nuclei, c. fig. 57. elements of the nervous tissue has yet to be ascertained. It is most probable, however, that they either serve to connect distant vesicles, or else that they become continuous with the axis cylinders of the tubular fibres. In the cerebro-spinal centre, we have found the tissue in the vicinity of the caudate vesicles freely traversed in all directions by numerous very delicate filaments, which seem to be the ramifications of the caudate wi From the Gasserian ganglion of an adult:—a, a, Ganglion globules with their nucleus, nucleated capsule, and pigment, t, Tubular fibres running among the globules in contact with their capsule. g, Gelatinous fibres also in contact with the ganglion globules. Magnified 320 diameters. fig. 58. processes. These often exhibit considerable tenacity and elasticity. The situations from which we may obtain such caudate vesicles as are best suited for examination, are the locus niger in the crus cerebri, and the grey matter of the cerebellum and spinal cord. The nerve-vesicles do not lie in immediate contact with each other. They are either imbedded in a soft, granular matrix, as in the brain, or enveloped in a capsule of nucleated cells, as in the ganglia. {See fig. 54,/, g.) The intimate connexion of this136 VESICULAR MATTER. granular sheath to the vesicle, and to its processes when they exist, increases greatly the difficulty of examining them. It is not easy to detach them from this investment. This is generally effected by accident more than by skill in manipulation, and it is along the broken margin of the piece under examination that we shall succeed in detecting the most perfect vesicles. In most situations where vesicular matter is found in the nervous centres, tubular fibres of small though variable size mingle with its elements in greater or less number, and in some places both varieties of fibre are found. (See figs. 57 and 58.) To determine the precise connection which these respective elementary parts form with each other is a problem of the deepest interest. No more, however, can be said respecting it at present, than that the relation of nerve-fibres to nerve-vesicles in the centres is most intimate, and that the latter are rarely met with without one or more of the former in immediate connexion with them.137 ON THE SKIN, NAILS AND HAIRS. From ' The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' Vol. I, Chapter XIV, pp. 406 to 426. Published April, 1845. Intimate Structure of the Cutis. The white and yellow fibrous elements of the areolar tissue are both much modified, to constitute the framework of this layer; and in different parts of the skin, as might be expected, they exist in different proportions, and in some variety of arrangement. These varieties are not yet made out in all their particulars ; but we believe we may state in general, that, where great extensibility, with elasticity, is required, the elastic element predominates (as in the skin of the axilla); and that where, on the contrary, resistance is demanded, the cutis is chiefly composed of a dense interweaving of the inelastic white element (as in the sole of the foot). But in all situations the meshes are very close, and the quantity of the mixed fibrous tissues very great, as compared with almost any other part of the body. (' Ph. A. & P. of Man,' Chap. III.) ~ * The fibres of the yellow element take a generally horizontal course, and lie in multiplied series over one another, branching at very frequent intervals, to join those above, below, and on either side. The resulting meshes are open on all sides, but are most flattened in a direction parallel with the general surface. They are more or less lozenge-shaped, and vary in size not only with the region of the skin in which they are examined, but according to their immediate relations with the sudorific ducts, and other cutaneous appendages which traverse them. This element of the cutis can be easily studied on thin vertical slices, moistened with acetic acid, which acts on other parts, leaving it entire, and, as it were, isolated. (Pig. 77.) The thick and abundant fibres of the white element twine in great profusion among the interstices just described, but what their precise attachments are it is difficult to determine. They accompany all the larger vessels and nerves, and invest the several small glands with a loose capsule. The gelatine, which may be obtained in considerable quantity from the skin, is derived from this latter part of the cutis, and it is probably this element also which is138 ABEOLAR FRAMEWORK OF THE SKIN. principally concerned in the changes the skin undergoes during the process of tanning. The varieties in the qualities of different skins for this purpose might be explained by a reference to these two varying elements of their fibrous framework. In the museum of King's College is a specimen of excellent leather tanned from the skin of Bishop, one of the murderers of the Italian boy, who fell a victim to the infamous system of " Burking " many years since. Some anatomists have thought that the contractility of the skin, manifested under the influence of cold, and even under certain emotions, is due to the existence of peculiar fibres; and Geeber has very recently figured what he considers to be such fibres. He describes them as begirting the hair-bulbs. There is good reason for believing that these fibres, if they exist, do not essentially differ from those of unstriped muscle ; for in the dartos we have found the latter intermingled with an abundant and lax areolar tissue; and the close resemblance between the contraction of the scrotal membrane and that of the skin has been generally recognised. In fact, the dartos seems to be nothing more than a modifi- Tellow fibrous element of the cutis of the axilla. Magnified 320 diameters. FIG. 77. cation of the dermoid and subdermoid tissue, of which the principal peculiarities are the excess of this form of muscle, the laxity of the meshes, and the absence of fat. It is probable, also, that the phenomenon of " erection" of the nipple is due to the contraction of similar fibres.* The thickness and strength of the cutis, or areolar framework of the skin, differ greatly in different parts, according to the amount of resistance required against internal or external pressure. On the hinder surface of the body it is denser than in front, and on the outer than on the inner surfaces of the limbs. It is usually thin over the flexures of the joints. It is particularly delicate on the eyelids, and proportionally so in some other situations, where great mobility is demanded. In regions which are most subject to external pressure, as the soles of the feet, it is" firmly united by very dense laminae to the subcutaneous fascia; and the intervals between these are provided with pellets of fat, forming a cushion, as an additional means of protection to the delicate organs it encloses and covers. Among the lower animals we may notice numberless examples of an analogous * ' Cyclop, of Anat. and Phys.,' vol. iii., p. 518, Art. " Muscle." Vide infra.MARKINGS OF THE PALM. 139 kind. One of the most striking is that of the great whales, which, being liable to enormous pressure on the surface of their bodies, from the medium in which they live, are provided with a cutis of extraordinary toughness and density, as well as with a growth of subcutaneous fat, called blubber, of prodigious thickness. Fat occurs very generally in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, serving as a soft bed on which the skin may rest, and giving roundness and symmetry to the outline of the body. It is on the exterior surface of the cutis that the tactile papilla; are developed ; and it is here to be remarked that there is no necessary relation between the degree of their development, and of that either of the dermoid framework which supports, or the cuticle which covers them. It is true that in the palm and sole all these attain a large size, but, in the back, the tactile organ is well-nigh absent, though the cutis is dense ; and in the tongue, on the contrary, this organ is highly developed, while the areolar framework is nothing more than a very thin expansion; and the investment of cuticle Surface of the skin of the palm, showing the ridges, furrows, cross grooves, and orifices of the sweat- ducts. The scaly texture of the cuticle is indicated by the irregular lines on the surface. Magnified 20 diameters. fig. 78. is so thin that the papillae form separate projections from the surface. On the buccal surface of the lips and cheeks, too, the cuticle is comparatively thin. In all parts of the cutaneous surface, as well as in some portions of the internal mucous tracts, common sensation exists, attended with a feeble discriminating power, which must be regarded as the lowest condition of the sense of touch ; but the organ peculiarly fitted for receiving tactile impressions is concentrated in a very remarkable manner in certain portions of the integument, which in other respects, whether from the precise and varied movements they can perform, or from their peculiar position, are the best adapted to be inlets of this kind of sensation. The palmar surface of the hand and fingers, or the sole of the foot, may be selected for description, as presenting the most highly developed form of the organ of touch. The integument in these regions is finely and regularly furrowed by grooves, separated from one another by corresponding ridges. The direction of these grooves and ridges is various; they run in sweeping curves, frequently branch to adapt them- u140 UNDER SURFACE OF CUTICLE. selves to the inequalities of the general surface, and differ somewhat in width and distinctness. These lines indicate the arrangement and development of the tactile organ below. Each ridge is produced by a single or double row of elongated conical processes, termed papillse, projecting from the surface of the cutis into the epidermis. The grooves are occasioned by the epidermis sinking in to occupy the intervals between the rows of papillae. The papillse in each row are usually arranged in pairs, the intervals between which are indicated on the outer surface by corresponding minute and very shallow grooves, crossing the tops of the ridges more or less at right angles. Each pair of papillse thus occupies a little division of the ridge. In the centre of each cross line, between the pairs of papillse is observed the orifice of a sweat-duct (shortly to be noticed), which often is so large as to destroy the linear character of the Under - surface of the cuticle, de- tached by maceration from the palm ; showing the double rows of depressions in which the papillse have been lodged, with the hard epithelium lining the sudoriferous ducts in their course through the cutis. Some of these are contorted at the end, where they have entered the sweat- gland. Magnified 30 diameters. fig. 79. cross groove. In a square inch of the palm we may generally count rather more than forty rows of papillse, and in each row rather more than sixty pairs of them. In the natural state the papillse are intimately united at all points of their surface to the epidermis which invests them. By a slight maceration this union may be so loosened that the two structures may be readily separated from one another. In gradually tearing off the epidermis, the foregoing account of the arrangement of the papillse may be fully verified with the aid of a pocket lens. They are seen to form a close pile on the surface of the chorion, each one being lodged in a separate cavity in the deep surface of the cuticle. The papillse are not equal in size, but frequently a small one is joined with a large one: and the clefts left between them, by the-removal of the epidermis, are unequal likewise; those between the rows being deepest, and those between the individuals of a pair being commonly shallower than those between the pairs. This subordination corresponds (though not accurately in degree) with that141 THE CUTICLE. of the grooves on the outer surface of the cuticle, where the shallow intervals between the individuals of a pair are not even visible at all, being lost by the thickness of the superimposed substance. Such is the exactness of the impression or mould of the papillary structure which the under-surface of the epidermis presents, that it furnishes an excellent test of the amount and complication of the former structure in different regions of the skin. This will be seen by comparing figs. 79 and 80; the latter of which, taken from the cuticle of the leg, represents the shallow depressions into which the few dwarf papillary elevations of the cutis in that part have been received. The gradations of size in the papillary structure can be everywhere admirably traced in this way ; and will be found to correspond accurately with the account of the relative acuteness of the sense of touch in different parts, deduced from experiments, which will be subsequently given. The papillae are of an average length, in man, of x^otn °f an incn 5 at their base, where they spring from the cutis, they measure about g-^oth of an inch in diameter, and they taper off to a slightly rounded point. They are semi-transparent and flexible ; but .fSiHs „ • **** Under-surface of the cuticle, from the leg:— a, Small creases or furrows, b. Shallow de- pressions for the papillary structure. c, Epithelium of sudorifei*ous ducts, corres- ponding to those in fig. 79. Magnified 30 diameters. fig. 80. sufficiently firm in texture to resist maceration long, and not readily to admit of being detached from the cutis. Viewed, when fresh, with a high microscopic power, their outline is definite and sharp, and there is good reason to suppose it formed of an unbroken expansion of the homogeneous basement membrane already spoken of Within this it is difficult to distinguish any special tissue, except by artificial modes of preparation. A fibrous structure, however, is apparent, having a more or less vertical arrangement: and with the help of solution of potass, filaments of extreme delicacy, which seem to be of the elastic kind, are generally discoverable in it. Injection of the bloodvessels demonstrates the existence of a small arterial twig derived from the arterial plexus of the cutis, entering at the base, advancing up the interior of the papilla, and subdividing into two or more capillary vessels, according to the size of the particular organ. These, after forming small loops, reunite either at the base of the papilla, or in the subjacent texture, into small veins, which empty their blood into the venous plexus of the cutis. The capillaries of the smaller papillae frequently join with those of the fat-vesicles that lie beneath. The vascularity of the papillae is such, that their presence and relative size may be determined simply by the u 2142 PAPILLAE OF THE PALM. depth of the colour imparted to a portion of skin by a good injection of its vessels. The vascularity of the integument is, therefore, in general terms, proportioned to its perfection as an organ of touch. Since the discovery of the papillee as the sentient organs, the existence of nerves within them has been usually taken for granted, or they have been loosely styled expansions of the nerves; and to the general truth of such statements we may readily assent. But we have reason to doubt the accuracy of some recent writers, who have professed to give minute details of the mode of termination of the nervous tubules in the papillse. The subject is difficult of investigation. According to Ernst Bcrdach* Papillae of the palm, the cuticle being detached. Mag- nified 35 diameters. FIG. 81. and others, the nerves are arranged in a plexiform manner under the skin of the Frog, and loops are formed by the union of tubules from neighbouring branches. On examination we find this description correct as far as it goes, but that it does not carry us to the papillary structure. The plexus in question is situated underneath an expansion of fibres crossing each other at right angles, which is itself placed beneath the true skin, and separable from it; and we have observed single tubules from the plexus penetrating this expansion in their course to the skin. They have then been lost to view. We have hardly been more fortunate in discovering the true, termination of the nerves in the nictitating membrane of the eye in the same animal, or in the papillary tissue so largely developed on the thumb at a certain season. Vessels of papillae, from the heel:—a, Terminal arterial twig, v, Commencing vein. Magnified 80 diameters. i-w. 82. In our attempts to follow the nerves for any distance under the papillary structure in the higher animals, the fibrous tissues (and especially the elastic variety), forming the cutis, have been found so much to impede the view, that no satisfactory conclusion has been arrived at. In regard to their presence in the papilla? themselves, we can affirm that we have distinctly traced solitary tubules ascending among the other tissues of the papilla? about half-way to their summits, but then becoming lost to sight, either by simply ending, or else by losing the white substance of Schwann, which alone * Beitrag zur Mikroskop. Anat. der Nerven,' Konigsb., 1837.NERVES OF THE PAPILLAE. 143 enables us to distinguish them in such situations from other textures. Thin vertical sections of perfectly fresh specimens are essential for this investigation, and the observer should try upon them the several effects of acetic acid and solution of potass. In thus describing the nerves of the papillse from our own observations we do not deny the existence of true loop-like terminations as figured by so respectable an authority as Gerber,* but neither do we feel entitled to assent to it. We have in numerous instances failed to detect any nerves at all within the papilke, when such were plainly visible at their base, and when, consequently, the chemical agent pig. 83. employed could scarcely have destroyed their characteristic structure, had they been present. We incline to the belief that the tubules either entirely or in a great measure lose the white substance when within the papilke. We would, however, refer the reader to what will be found respecting the nerves of the papilla? of the tongue in the chapter on taste. The essential tissue of the papillse probably exists even where no projections large enough to be called papilla? are present. These portions of the skin are more scantily supplied with nerves; and it is probable from this circumstance, as well as from * ' General Anatomy,' translated by Gulliver.144 THE EPIDERMIS. experiments afterwards to be detailed, that the individual nervous tubules are wider asunder, and occupy each a more extensive surface than in parts thickly set with papillse. The cuticle, or epidermis (fig. 83, a), like the cutis, varies greatly in its thickness. As its chief use is that of affording protection, it attains most density on parts most exposed to pressure and friction, as the soles of the feet and the palms of the hands. In the same parts, too, it varies with the amount of pressure to which it is subjected at different times ; whence the hard hands of the artisan, compared with those of persons who have spent their time in gentler occupations. This increase in thickness probably results from the mechanical stimulus applied to the capillaries of the part. But, in whatever manner it may admit of explanation, there is scarcely a more striking instance of that inherent power which the body possesses of adapting itself to varied external circumstances, than this one presented by the human cuticle. a, Section of the skin of the heel, treated with weak solution of potass:—a, Basement membrane of papilla, b, Layer of nucleated cells resting on the basement membrane, c, Several succeeding layers, partially dissolved and their nuclei gone. d, Higher layers, not affected by the menstruum. e, Elastic fibrous tissue of the papilla, v, Its capillary vessel. B, A similar specimen, treated with strong solution of potass :—a, e, and v, as in A. The layer i is wanting, having been dissolved, c, Converted into a gelatinous mass with striae, d, Unaffected. The more external layers of the epidermic scales are not represented in these figures. Magnified 150 diameters. pig. 84. This investment is not permeated by either vessels or nerves, but consists solely of a congeries of nucleated particles, arranged in numerous superimposed laminaa, and united together by an intervening substance in very small quantity. Those particles that lie deepest, and rest immediately on the cutis, are little more than small granules, scattered in a homogeneous matrix, which serves to unite them together. Those of the next layers are rounded cells, consisting of a transparent membrane, in which similar granules, but somewhat larger in size, are visible. In the succeeding layers these cells are more and more compressed as they are nearer to the surface; and on the surface they are so flattened, that their opposite surfaces are in contact, and adhere, forming mere scales, in which the nucleus remains. The diameter of the deep particles is about 3-0Votn inch, and of the superficial ones eiTo^1 inch. We know that the superficial scales are being continually shed in small lamelli-145 RETB MALPIGHII. form masses, and it is evident that their loss is supplied from below ; hence new- particles must be constantly produced in the deepest layers, and must be in unin- terrupted advance, through a series of changes, till they are cast off from the surface.* These changes are not confined to their figure : the laminae they first form are moist, and comparatively soft, and rest like a cushion on the highly sensitive surface to which they are adapted, and whose vessels supply the materials for their development. The more external ones are hard, horny, and much drier. Schwann has also pointed out that their chemical properties become modified ; that at first they are soluble, but afterwards insoluble, in acetic acid; and this circumstance of a chemical change occurring in the stages of their development seems to us so important that we shall illustrate it by two views. (See fig. 84, a and b.) In the former the action of weak solution of potass is shown: the layer of cells immediately resting on the basement membrane together with the more superficial scales is but slightly or not at all dissolved; while several intermediate layers are swollen and rendered very transparent, having lost their nuclei. The abruptness of the change is remarkable, and continues after the whole specimen is saturated. In the latter figure a stronger solution has been employed; the deep layer is dissolved, but the superficial scales are still un- ^■^ggg^—ga^.^. ^ Vertical section of the cuticle, from the scrotum of a negro. a, Deep cells, loaded with pigment, b, Cells at a higher level, paler and more flattened, c, Cells at the surface, scaly and colourless as in the white races. Magnified 300 diameters. fig. 85. affected, while the intermediate part is reduced to a semi-fluid mass, in which scarcely any vestige of structure remains. It is very possible that other agents might disclose further varieties of chemical constitution in smaller subdivisions of the cuticular lamellae. These facts will go far to explain why it happens that the union between the particles composing the same layer is in general more intimate than that between different layers, so that it is not difficult to divide the cuticle into two, three, or more laminae ; and, in particular, why it is easy, at a certain stage of maceration, to separate the harder from the softer layers, and thus to isolate the structure termed " rete Malpighii." This is nothing more than the deepest, or most recently formed, part of the cuticle. When isolated, it presents depressions, or sometimes complete apertures, which have been occupied by the projecting papillae ; and hence the term rete. When apertures exist, the cuticle on the top of the papillae has been detached with the outer hard layer, and that in contact with and encircling their bases remains by itself. * The cuticle of Reptiles and Amphibia is periodically cast off in a more or less entire state, a new one being previously formed beneath it. In Amphibia the epidermis is tesselated; the scales adhering to one another by their edges, and being usually pentagonal. A similar ecdysis, or shedding, occurs in the larva state of Insects, and in the Arachnidans.RETE MALPIGHII. 146 In the coloured races of mankind, there is, at first sight, some ground for sup- posing the rete Malpighii to be a structure distinct from the other layers of the cuticle, the colouring matter being found to reside chiefly in this part. However various in quantity and hue, the colouring matter always consists of oblong or oval grains of extreme minuteness ( 20Q00th of an inch in their long diameter), and occupying the interior of some of the epidermic particles. In the negro it is accumulated in enormous quantity, and completely envelops the nuclei immediately resting on the cutis. On examining a vertical section of the whole cuticle, we find the colouring matter gradually diminishing as we approach the surface ; and it is most clear that there is no true line of demarcation between the two portions. We may observe the colour of the rete mucosum deeper at points; and a greater proportionate depth of colour is traceable over such points, through all the layers, as far as the surface: we may even discern a sort of stream of coloured grains advancing towards the surface. Hence there can be little doubt that the decrease of colour in the superficial laminae is due to that chemical change which has just been described as gradually taking place in the interior of the epidermic particles. As it is not always easy in this country to 7L n FIG. 86. obtain specimens of the negro's skin, the above facts may be verified in the skin of coloured domestic animals, or, less satisfactorily, in that of some portions of the skin of the white race, as that of the scrotum, of the nipple during pregnancy, or of accidental moles, or freckles.* The bronzing of parts exposed to the sun is effected by a similar deposit of colouring matter in the deeper laminae of the cuticle. The subject here referred to has been invested with additional interest by its supposed bearing on the warmly debated question of the specific difference of the negro from the white man. We need not inquire how far the existence of a distinct cuticular lamina might avail the advocates of such a difference, for we may freely state our conviction that no such peculiar layer exists, The sole variety is in the presence of pigment—which may occur, partially, under many circumstances in the white races, and may be wanting in the true negro.f The reader of the preceding paragraphs will understand how little such processes as maceration, and even the most delicate * Dr. Simon of Berlin lias ably investigated this part of the subject.—' Miiller's Archiv.,' 1840. f See Dr. Prichard, ' Natural History of Man.'147 NAILS AND HAIRS. dissection by the naked eye, and with ordinary instruments, are to be depended on for the determination simply of the anatomical fact. The nails and hairs are peculiar modifications of the epidermis, and consist essentially of nucleated particles. The nails are flattened, elastic, horny, protective coverings, placed on the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanges of the hands and feet, and projecting beyond the flesh. Hoofs, claws, &c, are varieties of them. The nail has a root, or part concealed within a fold of the cutis; a body, or exposed part, attached to the surface of the cutis ; and a free or projecting edge. The cutis underneath the root and body is termed the matrix, from its being the producing organ of the nail. This is thick and highly vascular, and its colour is seen through the translucent tissue. Near the root it is white, and occasions the appearance termed lunula. The nail has a firm adhesion to the matrix, and is moulded upon it, like the epidermis in other situations. The true epidermis (as distinguished from the nail) is continuous with the nail at the whole circumference of its body; the root dips into the fold of cutis, within the epidermis, and the free edge projects beyond it. In the advanced foetus we find the edge of the nail to be directly continuous with the epidermis of the end of the finger, and only to become free by, a rupture of this connexion after birth. Thus the nail covers that portion of cutis which is without cuticle. It has been frequently discussed whether the cuticle is continued over and under the nail; but this is a question of words only, the nail being the same essential structure as the cuticle. The border of the root of the nail is jagged, thin, and soft, and consists of newly formed substance: the deep surface of the body is also soft, and marked by longitudinal grooves, corresponding to the papillary ridges on the surface of the matrix. These soft under-parts consist of nucleated particles, similar to those of the deep layers of the epidermis. The more superficial lamina? of the nail are more and more dense and fibrous; but, when treated with acetic acid, some imperfect traces of nuclei may still be detected in them. The nail grows both at the root and on the deep surface of the body ; as the substance furnished by the root advances towards the free edge, it receives accessions from the surface of the matrix. Hairs are found on all parts of the surface, except the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet, and differ much in length, thickness, shape, and colour, according to situation, age, sex, family, or race. We may select one of average size for a description of their structure and mode of growth. The shaft of the hair is that part which is fully formed, and which projects beyond the surface. Tracing this into the skin, we find it lodged in a follicular involution of the basement membrane (fig. 87, a), which usually passes through the cutis into the subcutaneous areolar tissue. This hair-follicle is bidhous at its deepest part, like the hair which it contains. Its sides have a cuticular lining, b, continuous with the epidermis, and resembling the cuticle in the rounded form of its deep cells and the scaly character of the more superficial ones, which are here in contact with the outside of the hair, c. The hair grows from the x148 THE HATR FOLLICLE. bottom of the follicle, and the cells of the deepest stratum there resting on the base- ment membrane are very similar to those which in other parts are transformed into scales of cuticle. A gradual enlargement occurs in these cells as they mount in the soft bulb of the hair, which indeed owes its size to this circumstance. If the hair is to be coloured, the pigment grains are also here developed—for the most part in scattered cells, which may send out radiating processes—at other times, in a diffused manner around the nuclei of the cells generally. It frequently happens that the cells in the axis of the bulb become loaded with pigment at one period, and not at another; so that, as they pass upwards in the shaft, a dark central tract is produced of greater or less length, often only in irregular patches, and the hair appears here and there to be tubular, e. The shaft is much narrower than the bulb, and is produced by the rather abrupt condensation and elongation into hard fibres of the ceils, both of those Bulb of a small black hair, from the scrotum, seen in section:—a, Basement membrane of the follicle, b, Layer of epidermic cells resting upon it, and becoming- more scaly as they approach c, a layer of imbricated cells, forming the outer lamina, or cortex, of the hair. These imbricated cells are seen more flattened and compressed the higher they are traced on the bulb. Within the cortex is the proper substance of the hair, consisting at the base, where it rests on the basement membrane, of small angular cells, scarcely larger than their nuclei. At d, these cells are more bulky, and the bulb consequently thicker; there is also pigment developed in many of them more or less abundantly. Above d, they assume a decidedly fibrous character, and become condensed. e, A mass of cells in the axis of the hair, much loaded with pigment. FIG. 87. which contain pigment and those which do not. These fibres may be demonstrated by simply crushing small fragments of hair, but they become more conspicuous when the tissue is softened by a strong acid. The granules of pigment assume a linear arrange- ment between the fibres, which are firmly united into a solid rod by a material similar, it may be supposed, Lo that which cements the scales of the cuticle. The central cells just mentioned, when filled with pigment, seem less disposed to become fibrous than those around [hence perhaps their aggregation into the "patches" above spoken of.—W.B.] ; and some authors have described it as a medulla, in distinc- tion from the fibrous part of the shaft, which they then term cortex. But the tubular character, however constant in the hair of many animals, is very variable in human hair, both in different situations, and in the same hair at different points of its length, as may be seen very well by means of transverse sections. (See fig. 88, a, b.)* * Transverse sections of extreme thinness may be made by fixing a lock of hair between two pieces of card or wood in a vice, and then shaving it with a razor. In many animals, as the horse and dog, the149 THE HUMAN HAIR, The human hair has a proper bark, or cortex,formed in the following way: a single layer of the cells immediately surrounding those about to form the fibrous tissue of the shaft are seen near the bottom of the follicle to assume an imbricated arrangement (fig. 87, c), and gradually to mount on the hair, becoming more compressed against it in their ascent, until they form upon its surface a thin transparent colourless film, in which the overlapping of the delicate cells is still exhibited by elegant and exceedingly fine sinuous cross lines. (Fig. 88, J, d'.) The fibrous interior and this peculiar cortex together compose the shaft of the hair. By the continual emergence of fresh portions of the shaft from the follicle, fragments of the cuticular lining of the latter are apt to be drawn up upon the hair, aided, probably, in this, by the imbrication of its surface, and are often found clinging around it for some way ; but they are not to be regarded as any part of the hair itself. In the larger hairs there is usually a double series of these imbricated cortical Transverse section of a hair of the head, showing the exterior cortex, the fibrous tissue with its scat- tered pigment, and a central space filled with pig- ment, b, A similar section of a hair, at a point where no aggregation of pigment in the axis exists. c, Longitudinal section, without a central cavity, showing the imbi'ication of the cortex, and the arrangement of the pigment in the fibrous part. d, Surface, showing the sinuous transverse lines formed by the edges of the cortical scales, d', A portion of the margin, showing their imbrication. Magnified 150 diameters. fig. 88. scales ; the outer having its teeth interlocked with those of the inner, but apparently but loosely adherent to them. This outer series seems to be intermediate between the true cortex and the cuticle of the follicle, and to belong rather to the latter, since it does not appear upon the extruded portion of the hair. The cortex is much denser than even the fibrous part of the hair, and is less acted upon by strong solution of potass. Erom the preceding description it will be evident that the fibrous part of the hair is a peculiar development of the cuticular cells resting on the bottom of the follicle, that the imbricated cortex is formed by a single series differently developed at the hairs are tubular. In others they present a central series of cells, round or compressed, with or without pigment, as in the cat and mouse. In others, again, their external surface is regularly marked by annular, and sometimes toothed, projections, as in the Indian bat: and numerous other varieties might be enumerated. The quills of the porcupine, and the feathers of birds, are modifications of the epidermic tissue, and, in their essential characters, are clossely allied to hairs. See Busk, in 'Microsc. Journal.'COLOUR OF THE HAIR. 150 circumference of these, and that beyond this series comes the cuticular lining of the follicle; so that the hair is neither covered nor underlaid by cuticle, but it is in fact the modified cuticle of the bottom of the follicle. A thin layer of papillary tissue probably coats the bottom of the follicle in most cases; and where the hairs are large, and especially where they serve principally as tactile organs, there may be a projection of a true papilla, furnished with nerves and capillaries, into the bulb of the hair, as is very conspicuous in the whiskers of some animals and in the quills of the porcupine. An approach to this papillary projection may be frequently seen in the hairs of man; but its real size appears to have been much o^er-rated, from the basement membrane having been overlooked. Where a papilla exists, the basement membrane is of course continued over it, and separates it from the true hair, which is never penetrated by either vessels or nerves. The sebaceous glands of. the skin very generally open into the hair follicles at a short distance from the surface. The hair follicle is fixed more or less firmly in its place, according to the size and stiffness of the hair, by the dermoid and subdermoid tissues uniting intimately with it on its deep or convex surface, where also are spread out the capillary vessels which furnish the materials of growth. These latter are adapted in number to the dimensions of the follicle. Thus the hairs, like the cuticle, are beautifully organised, and maintain a vital, though not a vascular, connexion with the body. Some evidence of their retaining a degree of vitality is found in the fact, first pointed out by Mandl, and verified in some instances by ourselves, that hairs have a tendency to become pointed after having been cut short off. The process is very slow, and seems to consist in a further condensation and elongation of the elementary cells at the new extremity. Well-authenticated instances have occurred, in which the hair has grown white in a single night, from the sudden influence of some depressing passion ; and some have held this circumstance a proof that fluids circulate through them. It seems most probable that this phenomenon results from the secretion, at the bulb, of some fluid— perhaps an acid, as Vauquelin supposes—which percolates the tissue of the hair, and chemically destroys the colouring matter. The ordinary grey hairs of age resemtle other hairs in every respect but colour, and the process of change from dark to grey seems to take place rapidly in each individual hair. According to Vauquelin, the colour of hair depends on the presence of a peculiar oil, which is of a sepia tint in dark hair, blood-red in red hair, and yellowish in fair hair. When extracted, as it may be by alcohol or ether, the hair is left of a greyish yellow. The colour is destroyed by chlorine, and probably otherwise resembles closely that of the cuticle in the dark races. The substance of hairs is similar in chemical composition to that of horn. After being softened by maceration in cold nitric acid, it is soluble in boiling water, and the solution after evaporation becomes a gelatinous mass on cooling. The horny matter is said to be distinguishable from coagulated151 THE HAIRS HYGROMETRIC. albumen or fibrine by its being readily soluble in caustic fixed alkalies, but not in caustic ammonia. The ashes of hair amount, according to Yauquelin, to one and a half per cent, of its weight, and contain oxide of iron, a trace of oxide of manganese, of sulphate, phosphate, and carbonate of lime, and of silica. Black hair contains most iron, and light hair least.* Hairs, when dry and warm, are easily rendered electrical. They readily attract moisture from the atmosphere, and no doubt from the body also, yielding it again by evaporation, if the air be dry. When moist, they elongate considerably ; a property which Saussuee took advantage of in the construction of his hygrometer, in which a human hair, by its elongation and shortening in moisture and dryness, is made to turn a delicate index. The shape of the hairs in different situations offers some variety. In general, they taper towards their free end. Those of the head are often not cylindrical, but com- pressed on one or both sides, so that their transverse section is reniform or oval. The eyebrows and eyelashes taper towards both exlremities. Hairs also vary in being lank or woolly, permanent or deciduous. The frizzled hair of the negro is one of his Vertical section of the skin and sweat-glands of the axilla:—a, Layer of glands with their ducts transversing b, the cutis and cuticle, c, Small hair. d, d, Portions of larger hairs. Magnified one and a balf diameters. fig. 89. most remarkable characteristics, but has all the essential structural characters of the hairs of the other races. The diseased condition called plica Polonica is a matting together of the hairs, from the effusion of a glutinous matter, probably from the cutaneous glands. It is said that hairs so affected bleed, if cut close to the skin. This, if true, may result from a morbid elongation of the vascular papillae at their roots. In the whiskers of large animals these papillse are so long, that they are cut and bled if the whiskers are shaved off. In some regions of the skin it appears certain that a lymphatic network exists immediately under the surface of the cutis, probably under its basement membrane. Mercury injected into this network through a puncture in the cuticle passes readily into the neighbouring lymphatic trunks, and removal of the cuticle does not injure its meshes. These circumstances may be observed in the penis, scrotum, and nipple : but it is probable that the network sometimes exhibited by this procedure in other parts of the skin, is a fallacious appearance due to the. mercury having insinuated itself between the cutis and cuticle, in the furrows at the base of the papillary structure; * Bali's ' Muller,' pp. 421—5, quoted from Beuzulius.152 THE SWEAT GLANDS. for it does not find its way into the lymphatic trunks, and is deranged by a complete separation of the cuticle.""" The sweat-glands exist under almost every part of the cutaneous surface. They lie in small pits (fig. 83, d) on the deep aspect of the cutis ; or, if large, entirely in the subcutaneous fascia. As before mentioned, their orifices are discernible in the middle of the cross grooves that intersect the ridges of papilla on the hands and feet. Here their arrangement is necessarily regular, and their size is about that of a pin's head. But in other parts they are irregularly scattered, though in general in pretty equal numbers over areas of the same dimensions. In certain situations, however, the}^ are very large; and, as might be expected, we find their size and number in different districts of the skin to correspond with the amount of perspiration afforded by each. Thus, they are nowhere so remarkable, or so easily examined, as in the axilla, over a space precisely defined by the growth of the hair in the adult. They here form a flat cluster, which, towards the middle, is often an eighth of an inch thick, but thinner towards the edge. It is of a reddish colour, and mammellated by the individual glands Sweat-gland and the commencement of its duct:— «, Venous radicles on the wall of the cell in which the gland rests. This vein anastomoses with others in the vicinity, 6, Capillaries of the gland separately represented, arising from their arteries, which also anastomose. The bloodvessels are all situated on the outside or deep surface of the tube, in contact with the basement membrane. Magnified 35 diameters. fig. 90. which compose it. Some of these are as large as the labial glands, but most of them are somewhat smaller. They are soft, and more or less flattened by lateral apposition with one another. They lie in an atmosphere of delicate areolar tissue, and are covered and permeated with a network of capillary bloodvessels. The sweat-glands can be shown, wherever they exist, by dissecting apiece of fresh integument on its deep surface. They are distinguishable from the pellets of fat, with which they have doubtless been repeatedly confounded, by their pink colour and semi- transparent texture. Where the areolar framework of the cutis is densely interwoven, they are less readily discerned, but injection of the bloodvessels makes their detection easy. On detaching one of these glands, and highly magnifying it, it is seen to consist of a solitary tube intricately ravelled, one end of which is closed, and usually buried within the gland; the other emerges from the gland, and opens on the skin. Sonie- * ' Cycl. of Anat. and Phys.'; art. "Lacteal and Lymphatic System," by Mr. La.se.THE SWEAT GLANDS. l^3 limes this tube is branched, but its diameter is usually very uniform from end to end. When very long, the open end forming the duct is a little wider than the rest. The wall is comparatively thick, so that the calibre is not more than a third of the whole diameter. It consists, like the corresponding part of most other glands, of two layers : an outer or basement membrane, with which the vessels are in contact ; and an epithelium, lining the interior. The basement membrane is extremely thin, and is continuous with the outer surface of the papilke. The epithelium is much thicker, and is an involution of the epidermis that rests on the papilke and dips in between them. Hence the tube, traced outwards from the gland, loses the basement membrane f 1'f |:- A^ffcS*|^^£ a,5 Vertical section of the cuticle from the heel, detached "by maceration as in fig. 79. The epithelium of the sweat duct, continuous with the cuticle, has been drawn out of the tube of base- ment membrane, as far as the gland, where it begins to be contorted. The cavity of the duct is seen dilating as it enters the cuticle, and then stretching up to the surface through the epi- dermic laminae. The deep surface of the duct is continuous with the surface of the cavities in which the papillae are lodged. Magnified 35 diameters, b, Dact at its entrance into the cuticle. More highly magnified. FIG. 91. at the surface of the papilla? ; and the remainder of its course is pursued upwards through the successive lamina? of cuticular scales. The preparation exhibited in fig. 91 shows the continuity of the epithelium lining the excreting part of the duct with the cuticle, and also discloses its hardness and cuticular character, quite different from that of the secreting epithelium within the gland, which is soft and easily decomposed. We have remarked that the duct, in traversing the layers of the cuticle, is lined by epidermic particles having a different arrangement from those of the cuticle itself; being flattened in the vertical instead of the horizontal direction, and especially distinct in the deeper and softer stratum of the154 SPIRAL FORM OF THE SWEAT DUCTS. cuticle. This special cuticular tunic of the duct is best exhibited by treatment oi recent specimens with solution of potass., The duct, on leaving the gland, follows a meandering, and often rather spiral, direction, through the areola? of the cutis, to the interval between the papilla?, where it becomes straight; and it again assumes a spiral course in perforating the cuticle. {See fig. 83.) In the cutis its curves are unequal, elongated, and wide; but, in the cuticle, they are commonly as close and regular as those of a common screw, the form of which may be taken as a fair model of the duct in this part. It is not easy to explain the mode in which the spiral form is given to the cuticular part of the duct. It has been imagined to result from the condensation and flattening of the laminas of epidermis as they approach the surface [thus packing the less flattened cells of the duct itself.—W.B.] ; but the fact, that the spirals are not closer near the orifice, is opposed to this notion. Their use, also, is obscure ; for we cannot admit the validity of the ingenious idea that the orifice of a spiral tube must be valvular, and, therefore, FIG. 92. that they mechanically resist the entrance of foreign substances. If they do offer this opposition, it is only by the tortuosity resulting from the spiral arrangement. The proper tunic of the duct in the substance of the cuticle seems designed to keep it pervious, and may be that which gives it its peculiar spiral form. The average diameter of the cavity of the duct is xyootn incn 5 but, as it enters the cuticle, it usually becomes wider. The last two figures, as well as some of the preceding ones, illustrate the anatomy of the sweat-glands. The sebaceous glands are found in most parts of the skin, but are absent from the palms and soles. They are most abundant on the scalp and face (especially about the nose), and about the anus and scrotum. The glandular odoriferce of the genital organs are a variety of them, only remarkable by their secretion. The orifices open either on the general surface, or into the hair-follicles, and they lie either in the cutis orTHE SEBACEOUS AND CERUMINOUS GLANDS. 155 subdermoid tissue, according to their size. They are usually associated with the hairs, in the manner represented in fig. 92. They consist of a more or less capacious duct, generally branched, and terminating in blind, pouch-like extremities. The basement membrane of these glands is thicker than that of the sweat-glands, and is lined by an epithelium, in the particles of which are included granules of sebaceous matter. The terminal vesicles and the ducts are filled with an accumulation of this epithelium, which, having been detached from the walls, constitutes the secretion. On the deep or parenchymal surface of the basement membrane a web of capillar}' vessels is spread out. While speaking of the sebaceous glands, we must say a few words of a parasite so generally found in their ducts in many parts of the body, that it may almost be regarded as a denizen. This was recently discovered by Dr. Simon of Berlin,"1' and has been further described by Mr. WiLSON,t who speaks of two principal varieties of the Entozoa from the sebaceous follicles:— a, Two seen in their ordinary position in the orifice of one of the sebaceous follicles of the scalp, b, Short variety. c, Long variety. fig. 93. adult animal, chiefly distinguished by their length ; the one measuring from y-^oth to ^g-th, the other from xoo^1 *0 x^gth of an inch. He details several interesting parti- culars concerning their structure and development, for which we must refer to the original memoir. These singular animals " are found in almost every individual, and especially in those possessing a torpid skin, and they multiply in sickness. In living and healthy persons from one to three or four may be found in each follicle." We have represented them as we have found them in a sebaceous follicle of the scalp. (See fig. 93.) The ceruminous glands of the ear resemble in their structure those just described. They exist in great abundance in the skin of the cartilaginous part of the external meatus, and provide an adhesive secretion calculated to entangle particles of dust and small insects, and to prevent their access to the delicate membrane of the tympanum.^ * ' Miiller's Archiv.,' June, 1842. t 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1844. X In the sharks and rays there is a remarkable system of mucous tubes opening on the skin. These tubes are nearly as large as crow-quills, and of great length. They end by a blind extremity, to which a small nerve of the fifth pair is attached. y157 ON THE SENSE OF TASTE. From ' The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' Vol. I, Chapter XV, pp. 434 to 448. Published April, 1845. The sense of taste is subservient to the nutritive function by guiding us in the discrimination of the qualities of our food, and is therefore appropriately situated in the mouth, the antechamber to the digestive canal. The food being delayed more or less in this cavity, is brought, by the movements to which it is exposed, into intimate and varied contact with the surface ; and, its properties being ascertained while it is still under voluntary control, we are able to reject it or to propel it onwards, according to the impression produced on the nerves of taste. The mucous membrane of the tongue, as the principal seat of the sense, will now demand description. The muscular apparatus of this organ, though increasing its powers of taste, relates chiefly to its employment in the processes of mastication and deglutition In the mucous membrane of the tongue we find a chorion, a papillary structure, and an epidermis or epithelium, all corresponding, in essential characters, with the same constituents of the skin. The chorion, or cutis, is tough, but thinner and less dense than in most parts of the skin : it receives the insertion of all the intrinsic muscles of the tongue, which send up their fibres to it in small separate bundles, so that the surface of the tongue is exceedingly mobile, even in its minute portions, and its powers as an organ of touch are thereby much exalted. The termination of the muscular fibres in the fibrous tissue of the chorion can be well seen in thin vertical sections. The chorion contains the ramifications of the vessels and nerves from which the papillary structure is supplied. Both the arteries and veins form plane plexuses, open on all sides, like those of the skin, and respectively connected with the vessels of the papilke above them. The papillary structure has, in general, this peculiarity, that it is not concealed under the epithelium, but stands out freely from the surface, like the villi of the intestinal tube, occasioning the familiar roughness of the tongue. This, however, is to be taken with the limitations hereafter to be detailed. y 2158 EPITHELIUM OF THE TONGUE. The epithelium of the tongue is of the scaty variety, and in this respect resembles the cuticle. Like the cuticle also, it undergoes certain modifications in its mode of aggregation in different localities. In general it is much thinner than in the skin, so that the intervals between the large papillae are not filled up by it, but each has a separate investment, from root to summit. The continuity of the epithelium over the whole organ admits of easy demonstration by maceration, or boiling, by which it is detached entire, bearing the print of the surface below, on which it has been moulded. The deeper epithelial particles may sometimes be detached as a separate sheet, corresponding to the so-called rete mucosum; but these particles never contain colouring matter. In animals which have the epithelium of the tongue much thicker than in Man, it admits of being separated with care into a great many layers, at the 1 ^. ^ -111 ,"%■,,) Tongue soon on its upper surface :—a, One of the Vjj circumvallate papilhe. b, One of the fungiform ' papillae. Numbers of the conical papillae are i . ' v-';r';^ seen about d and elsewhere, e, Glottis, epi- : . . . . , glottis, and glosso-epiglottideau folds of mucous ,7 ' ■ membrane.—From Scemmering. n FIG. 94. will of the anatomist. The density of the epithelium is evidently a provision to defend the invested structures from the bad effects of the pressure and friction to which they are exposed during mastication, and hence it is greatest about the middle of the upper surface of the organ. It is here that the " fur" usually accumulates most in disease, being, in fact, no other than a depraved and overabundant formation of the epithelium. Three principal varieties of papilla? are visible with the naked eye on the dorsal aspect of the tongue. These are (1) the circumvallate or calyciform, eight or ten in number, situated in a V-shaped line at the base of the organ (fig. 94, a); the fungiform, scattered over the surface, especially in front of the circumvallate, and about the sides and apex, b; and the conical or filiform, much the most numerous,PAPILLAE OF THE TONGUE 159 studding most of the surface, though most largely developed in the central part, d. These three varieties will require a separate description; they are very distinct from one another if well-marked specimens are selected; but, as might be expected, there are many intermediate forms by which they seem to run imperceptibly into one another. We may premise, however, with regard to them all, that although they appear to have been hitherto regarded as simple papillas, analogous to, though larger than, those of the skin, yet we have found them to be compound organs, clothed with secondary, simple, and much more minute papillae, concealed under the epithelial investment, and scarcely or not at all visible until this covering is removed. In their compound nature they present much resemblance to the intestinal villi of the Ehinoceros and other large animals. We have further ascertained the existence of similar minute papilla?, interspersed very unequally among the compound forms, Simple papillee near the base of the tongue:— A, a, Concealed under the epithelium; b, Epi- thelium detached. Magnified 10 diameters. b, a, Arterial twig supplying their capillary loops ; v, Vein : The vessels are all contained within the line b, b, of basement membrane; c, c, Deeper epithelial particles resting on thebasementmembrane; d, Scaly epithelium on the surface; the granular interior of the papilla is represented at e. C, Papillas in which the basement membrane is not visible; and the deep layer of epithe- lium seems to rest on the capillary loop. Magnified 200 diameters. fig. 95. as well as occupying much of the surface behind the circumvallate variety, where the compound forms do not exist. These minute papilla? seem to have hitherto escaped detection, in consequence of their being completely buried and concealed under the common sheet of epithelium. If we examine the mucous membrane immediately in front of the epiglottis, we find it perfectly smooth, almost transparent, and supplied by capillary vessels spread uniformly under the surface, and connected with simple plane sub-mucous plexuses of arteries and veins: here the papillary tissue is undeveloped. Further forwards, however, where the membrane still seems smooth, the plexus of arteries beneath it sends upwards, at pretty regular intervals, a series of twigs, each of which terminates in one or two capillary loops, sometimes dilated in the bend, from which a small vein returns the blood to the sub-mucous venous plexus. These loops correspond to those of the simple papillas of the skin, p. 140; they supply160 THE CJRCUMVALLATE PAPILLAE. simple papillae, buried under a common investment of scaly epithelium, that differs from the cuticle only in its greater tenuity and moistness. On the removal of this delicate epithelium by maceration, the papillas stand out free from the membrane, and are seen to consist of an envelope of basement membrane, enclosing a paren- chyma obscurely granular, with the capillary loop already mentioned. After much Vertical section of one of the circumvallate papillee:—a, Central part, b, b, Border, c, c, Fissure between centre and border. The secondary papillee are seen covered by the epithelium. Similar papillee are seen, d, d, on the membrane beyond. Magnified 8 diameters. fig. 96. care, we have not been able to see nervous tubules within them; but they must exist under some important modification, which most probably consists in the absence of their characteristic white substance of Schwann. These simple papillee are represented in fig. 95. The circnmvallate papillee (fig. 94, a, and fig. 96) consist of a central flattened a, Compound papilla on the side of the foramen caecum, injected:—a, a, Arterial twigs, v, v, Veins. The capillary loops indicate the simple papilla?; in one of which, b, the injected matter has been extravasated within the basement mem- brane of the papilla, the outline of which is thus distinguished, c, Capillary plexus, where no papillae exist, e, e, External surface of the epithelium of the papilla. Magnified 15 diameters. One of the simple papilla? of A:— a, v, v, Arterial and venous sides of the capillary loops, b, b, Basement mem- brane, d, Deeper epithelial particles resting on the basement membrane. s, Scaly epithelium on tbe surface. Magnified 300 diameters. FIG. 97. projection of the mucous membrane, of a circular figure, and from ^th to ^th of an inch wide, surrounded by a tumid ring of about the same elevation, but less diameter, from which it is separated by a narrow circular fissure, with, it is said, a few mucous ducts opening at the bottom. In the smaller examples this fissure exists only on one side. The surface of both centre and border is smooth, and invested by scaly161 THE FUNGIFORM PAPILLAE. epithelium, concealing a multitude of simple papillae, in all respects similar to those just described. About the point where the two lines of circumvallate papillse meet, there is usually one with the fissure so large and deep as to have received the name of foramen caecum. The central part is frequently small, or elongated and thrown on one side A, Fungiform papilla, showing the secondary papillae on its surface, and at a its epithelium covering them over. Magnified 35 diameters. Another, with the capillary loops of its simple papillae injected, a, Artery. v, Vein. Tbe groove around the base of some of the fungiform papilla? is here repre- sented, as well as the capillary loops, c, c, of some neighbouring simple papillse. Magnified 18 diameters. FIG. 98. of the foramen. In the specimen next represented (fig. 97), this is shown covered with secondary papillse, having all the characters of those above mentioned. In its interior we failed to detect any nerves provided with white substance. In this region of the tongue fissures and papillae of irregular size and shape are often met with, and mucous glands are disseminated beneath the surface. The fungiform papillae (fig. 94, b, and fig. 98) are scattered singly among the filiform papillae, chiefly on the sides and tip of the tongue, and very sparingly in Various forms of the conical compound papilla?, deprived of their epithe- lium :—a, b, and especially c, are the best marked, and were provided with the stiffest and longest epithelium; their simple papilla? are more acu- minated, d, Approaches the fungi- form variety; e, /, come near the simple papilla?. Magnified 20 dia- meters. Mm M J FIG 99. the middle of the dorsal region. They are usually narrower at their base than summit, where they are from -^5-th to y^-th of an inch in diameter. Like those last described, they are clothed with simple papillae; and their investing epithelium is so thin, that the blood, seen through it, gives them a red colour, usually sufficient to distinguish them from the filiform ones among which they lie. They contain nerve-tubes, having a loop-like arrangement.162 FILIFORM PAPILLAE. The compound papilla of the third variety (fig. 94, d, and figs. 99 and 100) are of the average length of -^th of an inch, and, as their name implies, are more or less conical or filiform in shape. They are distinguished moreover by their whitish tint, derived from the thickness and density of their epithelium. This, indeed, frequently composes two-thirds of their length, being sent off from the sides and summits of their secondary papillae in long pointed processes, which are immersed in the mucus of the mouth, and may assume any direction, though they are generally inclined backwards. These epithelial processes are more stiff, according as the particles of which they consist approach more nearly to the dense texture of A, Vertical section near the middle of the dorsal surface of the tongue :—a, a, Fungiform papillae, b, Filiform papilla?, with their hair-like processes, c, Similar ones deprived of their epi- thelium. Magnified 2 diameters. Filiform compound papillae : — a, Artery, v, Vein, c, Capillary loops of the secondary papillae, b, Line of basement membrane, d, Secondary papillae, deprived of e, e, the epithe- lium. /, Hair-like processes of epi- thelium capping the simple papillae. Magnified 25 diameters, g, Separate nucleated particles of epithelium. Magnified 300 diameters. 1, 2, Hairs found on the surface of the tongue. 3, 4, 5, Ends of hair- like epithelial processes, showing varieties in the imbricated arrange- ment of the particles, but in all a coalescence of the particles towards the point. 5, Encloses a soft hair. Magnified 160 diameters. fig. 100. hair ; and a few among them actually enclose minute hairs, pointed at the end, and provided in some cases with an extremely fine central canal. One of the largest of these we found y^th of an inch long, and from ^° 3000^ °f an mcn thick. (Fig. 100, 2.) The others have an imbricated arrangement of the particles in various degrees, which will be understood without detailed description on reference to fig. 100, 4, 5. Many of them may be regarded as soft or uncondensed hairs, and preserve the same thickness for a considerable length. The structure of the secondary papillae, from which these hair-like processes pass off, differs somewhat from that of the simple papillae in the situations previously described. This difference consists in their larger size and more pointed form, as well163 TACTILE PAPILLAE OF THE TONGUE. as in their greater stiffness and elasticity; the latter quality depending on the abundant yellow fibrous tissue they contain, and which, with a wavy, almost spiral, character, has a general longitudinal direction. (Fig. 101, c, c, c.) They are commonly found to contain tubular nerve-fibres, which we have on several occasions, but not always, seen to terminate in loops. (Fig. 101, A, b, c.) We have usually found it easiest to distinguish the tubular fibres in the papillae at the front of the tongue. The reader will at once recognise the broad and obvious distinction between the papillas last described and all the other varieties, and will probably surmise, on A, Secondary papilla of the conical class, treated with acetic acid:— a, Its basement membrane, b, Its nerve-tube forming a loop, c, Its curly elastic tissue. The epithelium in this instance is not abundant; but the vertical arrangement of its particles over the apex of the papilla is well seen, d, and illustrates the mode of formation of the hair-like processes described in the text. Magnified 160 diameters. A similar papilla, deprived of its epithelium :—a, Basement mem- brane, b, Tubular fibre, probably forming a loop, but its arch not clearly seen, c, c, Elastic fibrous tissue at its base and in its interior. Magnified 320 diameters. Nerves of a compound papilla near the point of the tongue, in which their loop-like arrangement is distinctly seen. Magnified 160 dia- meters. fig. 101. structural grounds, that they can scarcely share in the reception of impressions which depend on the contact of the sapid material with the papillary tissue. The comparative thickness of their protective covering, the stiffness and brush-like arrangement of their filamentary productions, their greater development in that portion of the dorsum of the tongue which is chiefly employed in the movements of mastication, all evince the subservience of these papilhe to the latter function rather than to that of taste; and it is evident that their isolation and partial mobility on one another must render the delicate touch with which they are endowed more available in directing the muscular actions of the organ. The almost manual dexterity of the organ in dealing with minute particles of food is probably provided for, as far as sensibility conduces to it, in the structure and arrangement of these papilke. z164 ON THE PRECISE SEAT OF TASTE. The simple papillae on the base of the tongue, and those clothing the circumvallate and fungiform papillae, do not appear to differ from one another in any important structural condition, notwithstanding their variety of outward form and arrangement in the compound organs: their epithelium, though of the scaly kind, is very thin, and would easily permit the transudation of sapid substances dissolved in the mucus of the mouth. The softer and perhaps cellulated interior of these papillae may have a further influence on the act of sensation. With regard to the use of the singular configuration of the circumvallate and fungiform papillae, it may be conjectured that the fissures and recesses about their base are designed to arrest on their passage small portions of the fluids in which the sapid materials are dissolved, and thus to detain them in contact with the most sensitive parts of the gustatory membrane. We may here allude to a certain gradation that is apparent from the papillae of touch, through those of taste, to the absorbing villi of the small intestines. Touch shades into taste, and at a lower point sensibility is lost. In the tactile papillae, the excitant of the nerves merely comes into contact with the exterior of a thick epidermic covering: in those of taste, the epithelium is permeated by the special excitant of the nerves; while the intestinal villi are still more elaborately and exclusively organised for absorption. Another class of papillae might be here spoken of in conjunction with those of taste, as will be seen at a future page. On the Precise Seat of Taste. Authors differ considerably on this subject: some limit it to the hinder part of the tongue, about the root and sides; some extend it more or less over the whole dorsal aspect and to the tip ; others describe it as existing also on the soft palate; while Magendie is of opinion that the pharynx, gums, and teeth, are likewise possessed of it. This contrariety, while it shows the difficulty of the subject, may be in some measure explained by the indefiniteness of tastes when faintly perceived by small portions of the surface, by the influence on taste of the commonly associated senses of touch and smell, by some diversities really existing in different individuals, and by the ambiguity necessarily attending experiments on special sensation among the lower animals. As the subject is interesting in its bearing on the question of the nerves of taste, we shall here briefly consider it. Touch, as it exists in the tongue and other highly endowed parts, discovers to us not merely the presence and physical properties of bodies, but their actual position: we recognise the situation of the impression in reference to the whole organ, by virtue of a power common in a greater or less degree to all sensitive nerves. Every one who has attended to the effect of sapid substances applied to small separate parts of the tongue must feel that a similar capacity of assigning the position of flavour165 LOCALIZATION OF TASTE. accompanies the sensation of taste; and on this power in the nerves of taste, aided, as is usually the case, by the nerves of touch, we greatly rely for the determination of the question before us. In the first place, all allow that acute taste resides at the base of the tongue, over a region, of which the circumvallate papillse may be taken as the centre, and also on the sides near the base. These parts are supplied solely by the glossal twigs of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Secondly, some writers, among whom are Valentin and Wagner, believe the middle and anterior parts of the dorsum of the tongue to be usually incapable of appreciating flavours ; while numerous others hold the contrary opinion, with which our own careful and repeated experiments, on other persons as well as ourselves, quite accord. Sour, sweet, and bitter substances applied to the sides, and especially to the tip, of the protruded tongue, we find to be at once distinguished ; though, when placed on the middle of the dorsal region, they make little or no impression till pressed against the roof of the mouth. In the latter case, however, the taste of sugar is sufficiently distinct, and referred definitely to the spot on which it is laid ; so that its being tasted does not depend on its diffusion or removal from the central to the circumferential parts, as some imagine. The region now spoken of is supplied almost solely by the lingual branch of the fifth nerve, though Valentin has described a twig of the glosso-pharyngeal running on the under surface towards the tip. We conclude generally, with regard to the tongue, that the whole dorsal surface possesses taste, but especially the circumferential parts, viz., the base, sides, and apex. These latter regions are most favourably situated for testing the sapid qualities of food; while they are much less exposed than the central part, to the pressure and friction occasioned by the muscles of the tongue during mastication. The central region, as a whole, is more strongly protected by its dense epithelium, and is rougher, to aid in the comminution and dispersion of the food. Thirdly, the soft palate and its arches, with the surface of the tonsils, appear to be endowed with taste in various degrees in different individuals. Admirault and Guyat. affirm that the sense is acute in a spot about the centre, above the uvula ; and in some individuals it has so appeared to us. We have also found evidence of the existence of taste on the sides and arches of the soft palate in some individuals, but not on the pharynx, gums, or elsewhere. The soft palate and its arches are supplied by the posterior palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion, and sparingly by the glosso- pharyngeal nerves.166 NERVES OP TASTE. Of the Nerves of Taste. Taste having been shown to exist independently in parts supplied, on the one hand solely by the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, on the other solely by the lingual branches of the fifth pair, it follows, as a direct consequence, that these nerves must respectively participate in the sense; and there is besides reason to attribute a share to the palatal branches of the fifth. Amid many conflicting, and some quite irreconcileable, state- ments on this disputed point, with which it would be needless to distract the reader's attention, the weight of evidence derived from other sources seems to be much in favour of the above conclusion. The origin and connexions of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, which will be described a I a future page, may be referred to in connexion with this question. Eapp found no lingual branch of the fifth in the tongue of the Swan or Parrot, both of which have acute taste. The glosso-pharyngeal and par vagum supplied the organ. Evidence from Experiments. From observations on the effects of section of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves in dogs, Panizza, and, subsequently, Valentin and Wagnee, concluded that taste was completely lost after their division, and, consequently, that these are the sole nerves of the sense. But in such an inquiry negative results have far less value than positive ones ; and we therefore consider the experiments of Mullee, Guelt, and Koenfeld, and those of Alcock and Eeid, who all agree that decided indications of taste remained after these nerves had been cut, as proving that the lingual branches of the fifth share in the sense. Mullee, Guelt, and Koenfeld, however, failing to find signs of taste after the lingual branches of the fifth were divided, concluded too hastily that these are the sole, or by far the principal nerves of the sense, in opposition to the experiments of Panizza and his followers, the positive evidence of which in this regard carries greater weight. The experiments of Dr. Alcock directly tend to reconcile these inconsistencies. He found that though taste remained after dividing the lingual branches of the fifth, yet it seemed completely lost in the anterior part of the tongue. Besides, it is not impossible that the rude injury inflicted in these contradictory experiments on either the glosso-pharyngeal or the lingual branch of the fifth might temporarily deaden the sense of taste in the other, in a way somewhat similar to that, whatever it be, in which loss of smell impairs taste. Valentin admits that one of the dogs in which he had cut the glosso-pharyngeal nerves was able to taste a fortnight afterwards; a period quite too short to have allowed reunion and restoration of function to the nerves, and making it likely that the sense had been only apparently, and not really, lost.167 CONDITIONS OF TASTE. Evidence from Disease. In some cases loss of common sensation consequent on disease of the fifth nerve has been reported as being attended with loss of taste ;* in others, taste appears to have been preserved ;t on the other hand, taste has been sometimes lost while common sensation in the tongue remained ,\ "We would interpret the apparently contradictory evidence of these cases by one which we have ourselves lately witnessed, and which will be found to accord remarkably with the foregoing views. A middle-aged man suffered for eight years from complete loss of sensation in all parts supplied by the fifth nerve on the left side, with the exception of the forehead. The left eye was lost by destructive inflammation: the tongue was quite without feeling on the left side. On experimenting on his sense of taste, it was found to be clearly absent in the anterior and middle part of the affected side ; but to be present behind, in the region supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal. He tasted acutely enough on the other side in front. Blumenbach and others relate cases of congenital deficiency of the tongue, in which taste existed. These would show that taste resides in other parts of the mouth besides the tongue, if it were not very probable that a portion of the base of the organ with its gustatory papillse, supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, existed in these individuals. Without accurate dissections of the parts, such instances throw little light on the question. The tongue, as an organ of mastication, is provided with the sense of touch; the anterior portion, and especially the sides and tip, possessing this sense in an eminent degree. Division of the lingual branches of the fifth nerves in animals is attended with evidence of severe pain, and is immediately followed by loss of sensation in the front part of the organ; while cases of disease of the fifth nerve in the human subject are marked by loss of sensation in the tongue, in common with the other parts which the nerve supplies. The experiments of Alcock and Eeid further show that mechanical irritation of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve in animals is accompanied with manifest pain. Hence there can be no doubt that the lingual branches of the fifth pair are the chief nerves of touch to the tongue, while the glosso-pharyngeal nerves furnish the feeble common sensation existing in its hinder part. Conditions of Taste. Taste may be produced by a mechanical or chemical excitation of its nerves. Dr. Baly has observed that a smart tap with the fingers on the tip of the tongue causes * Bishop, 'Med. Gaz.,' 1833; Romberg, 'Miiller's Archiv.,' 1838, Heft iii. t Noble, 'Med. Gaz.,' vol. xv., p. 120; Vogt, 'Miiller's Archiv.,' 1840, p. 72. X Noble, ' Med. Gaz.,' vol. xvi.168 INTERACTION OF TOUCH, TASTE AND SMELL. a taste sometimes acid, sometimes saline, which lasts several seconds; and galvanism acts in a similar way. Any tasteless substance pressed upon the base of the tongue occasions a bitter sensation, and, if prolonged, a feeling of nausea. These phenomena show that the sensation of taste follows excitation of its nerves, however produced: and analogous ones have been observed in connexion with the other sensitive nerves. But sapid substances cause taste only when dissolved and made to permeate the tissue of the papillae, so as to come into contact with their nerves. This is proved by the fact that no insoluble substance admits of being tasted, and constitutes a broad distinction between taste and touch ; which in some respects approach each other very nearly, particularly in regard to the effects of strong chemical agents on their respective nerves, producing a harsh, pungent, burning taste or feel. Taste, like touch, is much influenced by the extent of surface acted on ; and it is also heightened by the motion and moderate pressure of the substance upon the gustatory membrane. By the latter movements, the mucus and outer layers of the epithelium are removed, and the sapid material is brought into closer contact with the papillge. The act of swallowing seems further necessary to the perfect appreciation of flavours. This is partly explained by considering how much the concurrent exercise of smell exalts the sense of taste. Most sapid substances, though in different degrees, affect the nose through the throat on being swallowed; and we are thus led to attribute to taste much of what is in reality due to smell. The nurse's device of holding the nose of the child in giving it disagreeable medicine, though commonly said to deaden taste, seems rather serviceable by excluding smell. Thus tested, taste is a less acute and definite sensation than most persons imagine. Nevertheless the difficulty of discriminating between the two senses indicates a real, though obscure, alliance between them, rendered closer by habit and association. The impression of cold air deadens the sense of taste, and has, we believe, been the source of some of the discordance in the recorded results of experiments. Cold acts similarly on touch. Do Taste and Touch Co-exist in any of the Papillai ? A papillary structure is, essentially, an arrangement for increasing the surface by which a membrane may have contact with external substances; and, while the analogy with the skin leaves no doubt that this structure in the tongue is concerned in the exquisite touch enjoyed by the organ, it is almost as certain that it is also concerned in taste. The question then arises whether touch and taste reside in the same papillae or in distinct ones. Now it is possible, as far as we know, that nerve-fibres of different endowments may be associated in the same papillae, and therefore that one and the same papillaLOCALIZATION" OF VARIETIES OF TASTE. 169 may possess both capacities. Taste, however, it is evident, demands a more delicate external apparatus in connexion with its nerves than touch; so that touch might be exercised with an apparatus adapted to taste, though not in all cases the reverse. As far, therefore, as regards the simple papillae at the base of the tongue, and those covering the circumvallate and fungiform varieties, it seems impossible, in our ignorance of any anatomical distinction between the nerve-fibres of the two endow- ments, to decide whether the two senses are or are not resident together in the same papillae. But there are good grounds for supposing that the conical or filiform papillae are not designed for taste. They are most largely developed in a part of the tongue where taste is feeblest, and are there intermixed with a number of fungiform papillae sufficient to account for the little that exists. Their structure and position, as already remarked, lead to the same conclusion. It may be added that, in the Lion, where these papillae are capped with spines, so thick and rigid as totally to incapacitate them for taste, they are furnished at the base with an additional tuft of soft secondary papillae, that seem specially adapted for the latter function. It is possible that certain soft papillae, which we have frequently seen springing up about the base of the less developed filiform ones in the human tongue, may contribute, in a similar manner, to the sense of taste. Are the Varieties of Taste referable to the Varieties of the Papilla? ? It has been imagined that the differences of form met with in the papillae might be in some special relation to the leading varieties of tastes, as the bitter, sweet, sour, &c.; but the careful experiments of Horn on this interesting point can scarcely be considered as tending to establish such a correspondence. The difficulties, however, of experimenting are so great, that neither can they be said to disprove it: for a considerable extent of impression is necessary to ensure a perception sufficiently definite to be relied on; and the different papillae are for the most part too much intermingled to admit of several of a similar kind being tested apart from others. The most that can be deduced from Hokn's observations is, that more than three-fourths of the substances he applied to the circumvallate papillae, including, we suppose, the simple papillae we have described on the neighbouring surface, excited a bitter taste, or one in which a bitter was associated with some other, especially an alkaline or saline flavour; and that on the region where the filiform papillae abound the majority of substances tasted acid, or acid with a mixture of bitter or sweet. In regard to the fungiform variety no decided results were obtained. These facts will perhaps help to explain the effect of the act of swallowing in modifying and heightening flavours, since the food is much more completely brought into contact with the papillae on the base of the tongue during that act.170 LINGERING OF IMPRESSIONS, SUBJECTIVE PHENOMENA. After-Tastes. Impressions of taste remain longer than those of the other senses, because the fluids exciting them must of necessity continue for some time in contact with the nerves after having saturated the intervening papillary investment. For the same reason it is difficult to say how much of the taste that lingers, after the substance has apparently left the mouth, is due to the excitation of the nerves by particles still remaining in the papillee, and how much to that state of the nerves, which, in all the senses, prolongs the perception, after the original excitation has ceased. The taste left in the mouth by many substances is, however, very different from that which they produce in the first instance. Horn has remarked that this after-taste is usually bitter; while, with one of the most bitter substances known, viz., tannin, it is sweet. This circumstance appears to show something in taste corresponding to the complementary colours in vision, and seems dependent on a state of the nerves which, for want of a better word, may be termed one of exhaustion, consequent on their previous stimulation. It will illustrate the cause of many familiar phenomena of taste; such as the effect some flavours have in exalting, modifying, or destroying our appreciation of others. Eepeated over-stimulation of the nerves by the same substance exhausts their excitability by that or similar substances for some time afterwards. There also appear to be relations between certain varieties of taste, which, though not classified or described by philosophers, are instinctively perceived, and constitute the foundation of the art of cookery. Attention and study given to the perceptions of this sense greatly enhance their delicacy. Little is known of the subjective phenomena of taste, or those dependent on excitation of the nervous apparatus of the sense by internal causes. The various tastes which are experienced in disease are probably occasioned by depraved secretions in the mouth acting as foreign substances on the papillse. The epithelium of the tongue, it is well known, is very prone to accumulate in the form of sordes, loaded with unnatural materials, on the removal of which, the natural taste is, in a great measure, restored. Magendie observed that dogs, after the injection of milk into their veins, licked their lips, and gave other signs of tasting. Such phenomena, if uniformly present, might be occasioned by the transudation of the fluid from the vessels to the nerves of the papillae.* * On the subject of taste we refer to the general treatises already cited; to Magendie's 'Physiology;' Rudolphi's ' Physiology;' Horn, 'iiber den Geschmackssinn des Menschen, Heidelberg,' 1825; Panizza, 'Richerche Sperimentali sopra i Nervi,' 1834, given by Dr. G. Burrowes in 'Med. Gaz.,' vol. xvi.; Dr. Alcock, 'Med. Gaz.,' Nov. 1836; Dr. Jno. Reid, 'Brit, and For. Med. Rev.,' vol. v., p. 309; Valentin, 'de funct, nerv.,' p. 116.171 ON THE OLEACTOEY REGION. From ' The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' Vol. II, Chapter XVI, pp. 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12. Published December 1st, 1856. We now come to the proper seat of the sense of smell, a comparatively limited district of the nasal organ, to which we shall apply the term, olfactory region. As this olfactory region has not hitherto been distinguished, nor its character understood, we shall describe it somewhat minutely. This, as well as other parts, can be best examined in animals, because they can be procured fresh and in a state of health. The mucous membrane so soon loses many of its most interesting features, especially where death has followed on chronic disease, that the human subject is not the most favourable for the investigation of its physiological anatomy, and can only be a, Surface of the epithelium. b, Layer coloured by pigment, c, Line of base- ment membrane, d, Nucleated tissue seen below. e, Olfactory nervous filament branching. FIG. 104.—YEETICAL SECTION OP THE OLFACTORY REGION OF THE NOSE OF THE RABBIT. MAGNIFIED 250 DIAMETERS. advantageously inspected after the lower animals have furnished the general clue. This remark is well illustrated by the present instance. The olfactory region is situated at the top of the nose, immediately below the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, through which the olfactory nerves reach the mem- brane ; and it extends about one-third or one-fourth, downwards on the septum, and over the superior and part of the middle spongy bones of the ethmoid. Its limits are distinctly marked by a more or less rich sienna-brown tint of the epithelium, and by 2 ATHE OLFACTORY REGION. 172 a remarkable increase in the thickness of this structure, compared with the ciliated region below; so much so, that it forms an opaque soft pulp upon the surface of the membrane, very different from the delicate, very transparent film of the sinuses and lower spongy bones. The epithelium indeed here quite alters its character, being no longer ciliated, but composed of an aggregation of superposed nucleated particles, of pretty uniform appearance throughout; except that, in many instances, a layer of those lying deepest, or almost deepest, is of a darker colour than the rest, from the brown pigment contained in the cells. (Fig. 104, i.) These epithelial particles, then, are not ciliated; and they form a thick, soft, and pulpy stratum, resting on the basement membrane. The deepest layer often adheres after the others are washed away. On looking on the under surface of this epithelium, when it has been detached, we observe projecting tubular fragments, similar to the cuticular lining drawn out of the sweat-ducts of the skin, when the cuticle is removed after maceration. (Figs. 79 and 80.) In fact, glands apparently identical with the sweat-glands exist in this region in great numbers. They dip down in the recesses of the -submucous tissue, among the ramifications of the olfactory nerves ; PIG. 107.—OLFACTORY FILAMENTS OF THE DOG. MAGNIFIED 250 DIAMETERS. and their orifices are very easily seen, after the general brown coat of epithelium has been detached, lying more or less in vertical rows, the arrangement of which is probably determined by the course of those nerves beneath. They become more and more sparing towards the limits of the olfactory region. The epithelium of these glands is bulky, and like that of the sweat-glands, contains some pigment. As the duct approaches the epithelium of the general surface, its wall becomes thinner and more transparent; and, in its subsequent course upwards, it is difficult to be traced, for it does not appear to be spiral, or its particles to differ from those which they traverse. We have sometimes seen rods of epithelium, apparently hollow, left projecting from the basement membrane, after the brown epithelium has been washed away; and these are perhaps portions of the excretory ducts of these glands. The olfactory filaments (figs. 104, 107) are from fifteen to twenty-five in number, and, passing through the apertures of the cribriform plate, may be seen, invested with fibrous sheaths derived from the dura mater, upon the deep or attached surface of the mucous membrane of the olfactory region. They here branch, and sparinglyTHE OLFACTORY REGION. 173 re-unite in a plexiform manner, as they descend. They form a considerable part of the entire thickness of the membrane, and differ widely from the ordinary cerebral nerves in structure. They contain no white substance of Schwann, are not divisible into elementary fibrillse, are nucleated, and finely granular in texture, and are invested with a sheath of homogeneous membrane, much resembling the sarcolemma, or, more strictly, that neurilemma which we figured from the nerves of insects in the former volume, fig. 64. These facts we have repeatedly ascertained, and they appear to be of great importance to the general question of the function of the several ultimate elements of the nervous structure, especially when viewed in connexion with what will be said on the anatomy of the retina. We are aware that some anatomists deny the existence of the white substance of Schwann as a natural element of the nerve-fibre in any case, pretending that it is formed by artificial modes of preparation; we hold it to be a true structure; but, however that may be, these nerves never exhibit it, however prepared. They rather correspond with the gelatinous fibres. Now there is no kind of doubt that they are a direct continuation from the vesicular matter of the olfactory bulb. The arrangement of the capillaries in well-injected specimens is a convincing proof of this, as these vessels gradually become elongated on the nerve assuming a fibrous character as it quits the surface of the bulb; and further, no tubular fibres can ever be discovered in the pulp often left upon the orifices of the cribriform plate after detachment of the bulb. It must be remembered, that a few tubular fibres from the nasal nerve of the fifth here and there accompany the true olfactory filaments, but these only serve to make the difference more evident by contrast. Although these nucleated olfactory filaments lie in great abundance under the mucous membrane of the olfactory region, we have been quite foiled in our attempts to trace their ultimate distribution in the membrane, and the difficulty is attributable to their want of the characteristic white substance. Their elongated nuclei render the larger branches unmistakable; but if these become resolved at last into fibrous elements, the nuclei cease to be distinct from those of the numerous nucleated tissues which they traverse. In this respect they correspond, in all probability, with the nerves of some of the papillse of the tongue (see ante fig. 95); and, considering the similarity between the two senses, an argument may be hence deduced for the limitation of the sense of taste to those elementary nerve-fibres going to the tongue which are without the white substance of Schwann. If this be so, the looped tubular fibres are confined to the impressions of touch in that organ. We are averse from speculating prematurely on the meaning of anatomical facts, but as some hypothesis will intrude itself, we would venture to hint that this amalgamation of the elements of the peripheral part of the olfactory nervous apparatus in the larger branches, and probably in the most remote distribution, as well as the nucleated character indicative of an essential continuity of tissue with the vesicular matter of the lobe, are in accordance with the oneness of the sensation 2 a 2174 CONDITIONS OF SMELL. resulting from simultaneous impressions on different parts of this organ of sense and seem to show that it would be most correct to speak of the first pair of nerves as a portion of the nervous centre put forward beyond the cranium, in order that it may there receive, as at first hand, the impressions of which the mind is to become cognizant. No true tubular fibres belong to the olfactory nervous apparatus, except those commissural ones passing between the bulb and certain portions of the cerebrum. Conditions of Smell. In addition to the essential conditions of integrity of the nervous apparatus, and the presence of the requisite stimulus, a healthy condition of the epithelial investment of the papillse seems necessary for perfect smell. If the mucous surface is dry, or if it is in the raw irritable state, attended with watery discharge, induced by cold, smell is impaired or lost. This is explained by considering the manner in which the nerves are ordinarily brought under the influence of the stimulus. As in taste, a solution of the stimulus in the surface of the membrane is requisite in order that the odorous substance may actually reach the nerve. Insoluble substances cannot be smelt. Hence, whether the membrane be too dry, or an inordinate excretion of fluid be going on from its surface, the necessary penetration of the stimulus to the nerves is alike interfered with. In the latter case, the effect may partly depend also on a change produced by the inflammatory action, in the excitability of the nerves themselves. Since odorous substances must undergo solution before they can affect the olfactory nerves, why, it may be asked, cannot such substances, if dissolved in water and injected into the nose, be recognized by their smell? In answer to this it may be stated, that there is no reason to deny the possibility of their being so recognized, as far as the excitability of the nerves is concerned. But the ciliated epithelium of the nose, and the nerves of common sensation supplying the lining membrane, instantly resent the contact of all other fluids than the film which moistens the surface, and which is naturally furnished by it in due proportion to the exigencies of the part; and when the membrane is thus irritated, and its texture altered by the water, it need not excite surprise that its special sensibility should be altered or disguised. The organ of smell in fishes resembles that of air-breathing animals in every essential point of structure, and differs mainly in the habitual contact of its sentient surface with the surrounding water. It may therefore be concluded, that sensations of smell are excited in it by substances brought to it through the water, corresponding in kind with those brought in the other case through the air, but eventually dissolved in the moisture of the membrane. The nature of the sensation will depend on the special sensibility of the nerve, which in both cases can be excitedCONDITIONS OF SMELL. 175 only by the stimulating substance in solution; and whether air or water brings the stimulus to the surface of the membrane, is made important only by the special adaptation of that surface to the contact of one or the other medium. We may here notice two important reasons for the situation of the organ of smell, so high up in the nose, in addition to the obvious one of the protection from mechanical injury thus afforded to so delicate a part. These are, that it is thereby screened from the contact of air either too cold or too dry. The interposition between the outer orifice and the organ of smell'of projecting and folded membranes of active secreting powers, and containing large reservoirs of blood (in the plexuses already described), seems designed to answer both these purposes. These parts break the force of the current, warm it, and impart that degree of moisture which is best calculated to aid the solution of the odoriferous particles on the sentient surface to which they are afterwards applied. The remarkable complexity of the lower turbinated bones in animals with acute scent, without any ascertained distribution of the olfactory nerves upon them, has given countenance to the supposition that the fifth nerve may possess some olfactory endowment, and seems not to have been explained by those who rejected that idea. If considered as accessory to the perfection of the sense in the way above alluded to, this striking arrangement will be found consistent with the view which limits the power of smell to the first pair of nerves. We have already remarked that the exercise of the sense of smell is not attended with more than a general idea of locality. The sensation is even more simple in this respect than that of taste. Unless the experiment be made, we know not that we are constantly exerting the sense on two sides, for the double sensation is perceived as a single one. Our observations on the anatomy of the olfactory nervous apparatus may assist in the explanation of this fact.177 ON THE COCHLEA From ' The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' Vol. II, Chapter XVIII, pp. 76 to 81. Published December 1st, 1856. Of the Structure of the Spiral Lamina of the Cochlea. We shall term the two surfaces of this lamina tympanic and vestibular, as they regard respectively the tympanic or vestibular scala. The osseous portion of the spiral lamina extends more than half way from the modiolus towards the outer wall, and is perforated, as already described, by a series of plexiform canals for the transmission of the cochlear nerves; these canals, taken as a whole, lie close to A, Section of the cochlear canal where the scalse are equal, sv, Scala vestibuli. st, Scala tym- pani. o, Osseous zone of lamina spiralis, d, Denticulate lamina, to, Membranous zone, c, Cochlearis muscle, r, Osseous rim of the groove of the cochlearis. B, Margin of osseous zone, more magnified. sv, Scala vestibuli. st, Scala tympani. g, Groove, between d, denticulate lamina, and in, membranous zone springing from the edge of the osseous zone, n, Cochlear nerves and capil- Jaries, distributed on the tympanic surface of "■^^^^^gjsp^ppf^-'-' the osseous zone. st fig. 137. the lower or tympanic surface, and open at or near the margin of this zone. The vestibular surface of the osseous zone presents in about the outer fifth of its extent, a remarkable covering, more resembling the texture of cartilage than anything else, but having a peculiar arrangement quite unlike any other with which we are acquainted. Being uncertain respecting the office of this structure, we shall term it the denticulate lamina (figs. 137 and 138), from a beautiful series of teeth,STRUCTURE OF THE SPIRAL LAMINA OF THE COCHLEA. forming its outer margin, which project free into the vestibular scala, and, in the first coil, terminate almost on a level with the margin of the osseous zone, but more within this margin towards the apex of the cochlea. They thus constitute a kind of second margin to the osseous zone, on the vestibular side of the true margin, and having a groove beneath them, which runs along the whole lamina spiralis, in the vestibular scala, immediately above the true margin of the osseous zone. The intervals between the teeth are to be seen on their upper surface, on their free edge, and also within this groove, so that the teeth are wedge-shaped, and their upper and under surfaces, traced from the free edge, recede. The free projecting part, or teeth of the denticulate lamina form less than a fourth of its entire breadth, and in the remainder of its extent it appears to rest on the osseous zone; seen from above, after the osseous zone lias been rendered more transparent by weak hydrochloric acid (fig. 138), rows of clear lines may be traced from the teeth at the convex edge, o o ■, gn<? a, Free edge of the teeth, which are separated by fissures as far as the line b. The clear tracts, with intervening rows of globules, are seen at cl. e, Margin towards the axis of the cochlea. FIG. 138.—DENTICULATE LAMINA OP THE OSSEOUS ZONE OP THE LAMINA SPIRALIS, SEEN ON THE VESTIBULAR SURFACE. FROM THE SHEEP. MAGNIFIED 100 DIAMETERS. towards the opposite or concave edge of the lamina. These lines appear to be a structure resembling that of the teeth themselves, and they are separated from one another by rows of clear, highly refracting granules, which render the intervals very distinct. These intervals, as seen in the figure, are more or less sinuous and irregularly branched. The denticulate lamina, thus placed on the vestibular surface of the osseous zone, is above, and at some distance from the plexus of the cochlear nerves, which lies near its tympanic surface. The vestibular surface of the osseous zone, including the denticulate lamina, is convex, rising from the free series of teeth toward the modiolus. In the groove already mentioned there is a series of elongated bodies, not unlike columnar epithelium, in which the nuclei are very faint. These bodies are thick and cubical at one end, and taper much towards the other. They are united in a row; and it is possible they may have some analogy to the club-shaped bodies of Jacob's membrane. We can assign them no use. Continuous with the thin margin of the osseous zone is the membranous zone.THE COCHLEARIS MUSCLE. 179 This is a transparent glassy lamina, having some resemblance to the elastic laminse of the cornea, and the capsule of the lens. A narrow belt of it next the osseous zone is smooth, and exhibits no internal structure, while in the rest of its width it is marked by a number of very minute straight lines, radiating outwards from the side of the modiolus. These lines are very delicate at their commencement, become more strongly marked in the middle, and are again fainter ere they cease, which they do at a curved line on the opposite side. Beyond this the membranous zone is again clear, and homogeneous, and receives the insertion of the cochlearis muscle. The inner clear o"<? CP, o°oo<-> llllliflllft Termination of the cochlear nerves at the border of the osseous zone, with capil- laries ramifying over them. b, Inner clear belt of the membranous zone. c, Marginal capillary on the tympanic surface. d, Pectinate portion of the membranous zone. The half - detached fragment on the opposite edge shows its mode of tearing, e, Outer clear belt of membranous zone, torn from the cochlearis muscle. FIG. 139.—TYMPANIC SURFACE OF A PORTION OF A LAMINA SPIRALIS OF THE CAT. 300 DIAMETERS. MAGNIFIED belt of the membranous zone is little affected by acids. It seems hard and brittle. The middle or pectinate portion is more flexible, and tears in the direction of the lines. The outer clear belt is swollen, and partially destroyed by the action of acetic acid. Along the inner clear belt, and on its tympanic surface., runs a single, sometimes branched, vessel, which would be most correctly called a capacious capillary, as it resembles the capillaries in the texture of its wall, but exceeds them in size. It is the only vessel supplied to the membranous zone, and seems to be thus regularly placed, that it may not mar the perfection of the part as a recipient and propagator of sonorous vibrations. Of the Cochlearis Muscle. At its outer or convex margin, the membranous zone is connected to the outer wail by a semi-transparent structure. This gelatinous-looking tissue was observed by Breschet, and is indeed very obvious on opening the cochlea; but we are not aware 2 B180 THE COCHLEABIS MUSCLE. of any one having hinted at what we regard to be its real nature. The outer wall of the cochlear canal presents a groove, ascending the entire coil, opposite the osseous zone of the lamina spiralis, and formed principally by a rim of bone, which, in section, looks like a spur (fig. 137, r), projecting from the tympanic margin of the groove, the opposite margin being very slightly or not at all marked. This groove diminishes in size towards the apex of the cochlea. It gives attachment to the structure in question, by means of a firm dense film of tissue, having a fibrous character, and the fibres of which run lengthwise in the groove, and are intimately united to it, especially along the projecting rim. From this cochlear ligament, the cochlearis muscle passes to the margin of the membranous zone, filling the groove, and projecting into the canal, so as to assist in dividing the tympanic and vestibular scalse from one another, and thus forming in fact the most external, or the muscular zone of the spiral lamina. Thus the cochlear muscle is broad at its origin from the groove of bone, and slopes above and below to the thin margin in which it terminates, so that its section is triangular, and it presents three surfaces, one towards the groove of bone, and one to Line of attachment of membranous zone of lamina spiralis, of which a portion, b, remains attached. The surface below this line is in the scala tympani; the surface above in the scala vestibuli. c, Projecting columns, with inter- vening recesses, in tbe vestibular part of the cochlearis muscle. PIG. 140.—INNER VIEW OP COCHLEARIS MUSCLE OF THE SHEEP. each of the scalar. The surface towards the vestibular scala is much wider than that towards the tympanic scala, and presents, in a band running parallel to, and at a short distance from, the margin of the membranous zone, a series of arched vertical pillars, with intervening recesses, much resembling the arrangement of the musculi pectinati of the heart. (Fig. 140, c.) These lead to, and terminate in, the outer clear belt of the membranous zone, which forms a kind of tendon to the muscle. This entire arrangement is almost sufficient of itself to determine the muscular nature of the structure. If its fibres were of the striped variety no doubt would remain ; but its mass, evidently fibrous, is loaded with nuclei, and filled with capillaries, following the direction of the fibres, and in almost all respects it has the closest similarity to the ciliary muscle of the eye. The nuclei diminish in number as the fibres end in the tendinous part; and they are made much more evident by the addition of the acetic acid. The action of the muscle must be that of making tense the membranous portion of the lamina spiralis, and so perhaps of adjusting it to the modifications of sound. As the ciliary muscle, though of the unstriped variety, adjusts the transparent media ofTHE COCHLEAR XERVES. 181 the eye to distinct vision at different distances under the guidance of the will, so it is not impossible that the cochlear muscle may have a voluntary adjusting power, though its precise mode of action as a part of an acoustic apparatus may still remain obscure. On the whole, however, we are more disposed to regard this very interesting structure as having a preservative office, as being placed there to defend the cochlear nerves from undue vibrations of sound, in a way analogous to that in which the iris protects the retina from excessive light. These nerves are acted on principally by vibrations brought through the osseous part of the cochlea, and it is probable that the arrange- ment of the scalse is one designed to allow of protective movements of the lamina spiralis by muscular action, under a stimulus reflected from impressions on the auditory nerve. The capillaries of the ciliary muscle are derived from vessels meandering over the walls of the scahe before entering it, and those from above and below do not anastomose across the line of attachment of the membranous zone, thus indicating that the continuation of this zone enters as a plane of tendon into the interior of the muscle, dividing it into two parts, and receiving the fibres in succession. The scaLse of the cochlea are lined with a nucleated membrane, or epithelium, which is very delicate and easily detached, usually more easily seen in the vestibular than in the tympanic scala, and in many animals containing scattered pigment. Of the Cochlear Nerves. These enter from the internal auditory meatus, through the spirally-arranged orifices at the base of the modiolus, and turn over in succession into the canals a, Twig of cochlear nerve in the modiolus, its iibres diverging and reuniting in h, a band in the plexus taking a direction parallel to the zones. From this other twigs radiate, and again and again branch and unite as far as the margin of the osseous zone c, where they terminate. FIG. 141.—PLEXIFOKM ARRANGEMENT OF THE COCHLEAR NERVES SEEN IN THE BASAL COIL OF THE LAMINA SPIRALIS, TREATED WITH HYDROCHLORIC ACID. FROM THE SHEEP. MAGNIFIED 30 DIAMETERS. There are no ganglion globules in this plexus, which consists of tubular fibres. hollowed in the osseous zone of the spiral lamina, close to its tympanic surface. In this distribution, the nervous bundles subdivide and reunite again and again, forming182 THE COCHLEAR NERVES. a plexus with elongated meshes, the general radiating arrangement of which can be readily seen through the substance of the bone when it has been steeped in diluted hydrochloric acid. (Fig. 141.) Towards the border of the osseous zone the bundles of the plexus are smaller and more closely set, so as at length almost to form a thin uniform layer of nervous tubules. Beyond the border, and partially on or in the inner transparent belt of the membranous zone, these tubules arrange themselves more or less evidently into small sets, which advance a short distance and then terminate much on the same level. These terminal sets of tubules are cone-shaped, coming to a kind of point ere they cease. The white substance of Schwann exists in them throughout, but is thrown into varicosities and broken with extreme facility, and they are interspersed with nuclei, so that it is very difficult to discover the precise disposition of the individual tubules. (Fig. 139, a.) They seem to cease one after another, thus causing the set to taper; and at least it appears certain that evidence of loopings, such as have been described by some, is wanting. In the cochlea of the bird, however, we have seen at one end a plexiform arrangement of nucleated fibres ending in loops; but this is a peculiar structure. The capillaries of the osseous zone are most abundant on the tympanic scala, in connexion with the nerves now mentioned, and form loops near the margin, with here and there an inosculation with the large marginal capillary already mentioned.2 c PART IIT. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE 'cyclopedia of anatomy and physiology:185 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. From the ' Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and PhysiologyVol. III. This term has been usually and properly restricted to those large expansions of membrane, in the interior of the body, which are continuous with the external tegument; but it is impossible, in the present state of knowledge, to treat of these apart from the true glands and the skin, which form with them a great system, to which the generic term mucous will be applied in this article. Many anatomists since the time of BoNNf have treated of the mucous membranes and skin under the common title of tegumentary membranes ; and the opinion has been gradually gaining ground, that all the glands furnished with excretory ducts have a very close relation to the former, in which their ducts for the most part open. Still, it does not appear that the proofs of this alliance have been hitherto, by any author, deemed sufficient to induce him to blend these several parts under a description common to them all. Even Muller, in whose philosophical work on the glands is contained so much new and important evidence of this relation, continues thus to sever them in the late edition of his Physiology. But, indeed, although much weight is to be granted to the arguments drawn from continuity and occasional convertibility of structure, course of development, rough analogies of composition or of function, and sympathies under disease, it must be allowed that hitherto that most important of all proofs has been all but wanting, which, as I shall endeavour to show, is capable of being derived from minute anatomical analysis. The researches which I have hitherto been able to make on this subject are still so incomplete, that I should have gladly delayed their publication for some time longer, had the progress of this work admitted of it. As it is, I shall state the conclusions to which I have been led, and the grounds they rest upon (pointing out, * The original numbering of the figures in these Articles is retained for convenience of reference. t Bonn, ' Specimen Anatomico-Medicum Inaug.,' &c, de continuationibus membranarum, &c, in ' Sandiforti Tbesauro,' torn, ii., p. 265. Roterod. 1769. 2 c 2180 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. as far as possible, where farther examination is demanded), with the hope of thereby giving a clearer and more satisfactory view of the structure and relations of this important class of tissues than could be otherwise accomplished. I shall point out that the skin, mucous membranes, and secreting glands, consist of certain elements;, which the anatomist may detect and discriminate, some of which are essential to their tissue, others appended or superadded—and that the broad characteristic distinctions between these structures, appreciable to ordinary sense, as well as the innumerable gradations by which they everywhere blend insensibly with one another, are solely due to various degrees and kinds of modifications wrought in the form, quantity, and properties of these respective elementary parts. The skin is the outer tegument of the body; the mucous membranes form its internal investment, and are continuous with the skin. The ducts of all glands are continuous either with skin or mucous membrane, and their true secreting portion, as already described (see Gland), is merely a further prolongation of the same tissue. These offsets, like the great mucous tracts, are in the direction of the interior of the body; they form follicles and tubes of infinite variety, and, however complicated, may still be regarded, in a certain sense, as external to all other textures. Thus the mucous system may be described as a great and uninterrupted membrane, everywhere perfectly closed, in which the rest of the animal, or the parenchyma, is enclosed. This membrane has two surfaces, the one free, superficial or external, the other attached, deep, or parenchymal. It is on the parenchymal surface that the appended structures (viz., blood and lymphatic vessels, nerves, aud areolar tissue) are found in more or less profusion. The functions of the mucous system, numerous and diversified as they are, all bear a distinct reference to its really external anatomical position, and by this circumstance they are associated together; the principal are sensation, absorption, secretion, excretion, and defence of the parts lined by it against the contact of foreign bodies. A glance at the opinions that have prevailed concerning the structure and relations of the mucous membranes, will exemplify, more clearly perhaps than any other course, how imperfect have been the means employed, until a very recent period, in researches into minute or structural anatomy. The distribution of their bloodvessels had indeed been studied with brilliant success by Buysch, Lieberkuhn, and others, by the aid of injections, the admirable delicacy of which no modern art has surpassed; and somewhat of their extensive connections, general properties, and even of their texture, had been divined from rough dissection, maceration, and observations on the mode of their development and on their morbid states. But the ignorance that really prevailed, as to their intimate structure, is abundantly evinced by the number of disputed questions, the absence of precision of detail, and the substitution of loose and unwarranted analogies in its stead. Within the last five years discoveries haveULTIMATE STRUCTURE OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 187 been made which throw a new and most important light on the whole subject, and when viewed in connection with one another, must be considered to have greatly simplified our knowledge respecting it. These discoveries, due chiefly to Boehm, Boyd, and Henle, result from examinations of recent specimens with the microscope, and those of the last observer, which are especially valuable, were made with high powers employed upon a single tissue (the epithelium) in different forms and situations. It is this kind of research that promises the most enlarged and trustworthy results to any one who will follow it in a spirit of due caution against hasty generalisation, and which has already done so much in the present day towards a complete remodelling of our ideas, both concerning the elements of organisation and their union to form compound tissues. Before proceeding to a description of the anatomical elements of the mucous system, it is necessary to premise that a great portion of the membranes, usually termed mucous, are glands of a complicated structure, arranged in a membranous form, consisting of a closely packed mass of secreting tubules, which open on the general surface, and are essentially involutions of it. The bloodvessels and other appended tissues occupy the intervals of these tubules, and so approach the surface; but, never- theless, they always remain on the deep or parenchymal aspect of the mucous tissue. So, the same membranes present projections, which are nothing more than hollow evolutions of the same mucous tissue, into which the appended tissues are extended. The same remarks apply strictly to many regions of the skin. Hence it becomes necessary to guard against confounding such compound membranes with the simple mucous tissues, of which these and all other portions of the mucous system consist. Of the Ultimate Structure of the Mucous System. It has already been stated that the mucous tissue is essentially an uninterrupted membrane in which the other tissues of the animal are contained. A very cursory attempt will serve to show how much more easily it admits of being separated and examined in certain situations rather than in others. This variety depends chiefly on the difference of its arrangement and connections in different regions. In the testis and kidney, the capillary vascular rete, spread over its parenchymal surface, has no intimate attachment to it, and the appended areolar tissue is in very small quantity. In the testis, especially, this latter may be said to be almost wanting as an investment to the individual tubules, being, as it were, disposed as a collective covering to the entire organ, sending partial septa into its interior, and bearing the name of Tunica Albuginea. In the kidney, a more intricate vascular rete in a great measure suppliesULTIMATE STRUCTURE OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 188 the place of areolar tissue. Hence in these viscera, the simple mucous element allows of being isolated with remarkable facility. In the liver, its isolation is almost imprac- ticable, owing to its lying in the interstices of a capillary plexus that may be termed solid, from its being extended uniformly in every direction. The intricacy of the interlacement of the mucous and vascular elements in this organ is sufficient to explain the total ignorance that prevails concerning the mode of termination of the biliary ducts, and concerning their size, shape, and connections in the lobules of the gland. In many other true glands, the mucous tissue may be submitted to examina- tion without much difficulty ; examples of which may be seen in the pancreas and salivary glands, with those allied to them, such as the duodenal glands of Beunnek, the buccal, palatal, arytenoid, tracheal, &c.; and in the sudorific glands of the skin. In the compound membranes also, as that of the alimentary canal below the cardia, and the more highly developed parts of the skin, the mucous element may be generally distinguished from the tissues in connection with it in a satisfactory manner. But in the plane expansions of the simple membrane which line the bony cavities of the nose and ear, its isolation and the demonstration of its structure are far more difficult, for reasons which will be afterwards explained, and our knowledge of it here still rests partially on the ground of analogy. In the mucous tissue there are two structures that require to be separately described, viz., the basement membrane and the epithelium. The basement membrane is a simple homogeneous expansion, transparent, colourless, and of extreme tenuity, situated on its parenchymal surface, and giving it shape and strength. Tlf.a serves as a foundation on which the epithelium rests. The epithelium is a pavement composed . of nucleated particles adhering together, and of various size, form, and number. The following general observations on these elementary parts will receive illustration as we advance. Neither the one nor the other is peculiar to the mucous tissue in the sense either of being invariably present in it, or of not being found elsewhere. There are certain situations of the mucous system where no basement membrane can be detected, and others from which the epithelium is absent. Both, however, are never absent together. Again, a structure apparently identical with the basement membrane is met with in numerous textures besides the mucous,' and all internal cavities, whether serous, synovial, or vascular, or of anomalous kind, (as those of the thymus, and thyroid body), are lined by an epithelium. In the ensuing description these circumstances will be enlarged upon, and the exceptions and local peculiarities pointed out, as far as I have been able to ascertain them. At present, I would say that these two elements are generally present. The most interesting questions in animal physiology are involved in the determination of the nature and offices of these two elementary parts of the mucous tissue. The discovery of them is, however, too recent, and our knowledge of their history as yet too incomplete, to allow of any certain conclusions on the subject. Both presentBASEMENT MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 189 various modifications in different situations, the study of which is of great importance with reference to their function. It will now be our business to descend to a particular account of each. Of the Basement Membrane. The basement membrane of the mucous tissue, as displayed in the kidney, is an extremely thin, transparent, and homogeneous lamina, simple and entire, without any aperture or appearance of structure (lig. 273, c). It forms the parenchymal wall of At a, the basement membrane and epithelium are both seen in a natural state. At b, the basement membrane has been separated, and the epithelium is somewhat swollen, and its outline " woolly." At c, the epithelium has been detached and the basement mem- brane is seen somewhat wrinkled : d, a detached epithelial par- ticle seen in face ; its minutely mottled texture is not represented in the woodcut. A PORTfON OF A TUIH7LE OP THE HUMAN KIDNEY, MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. the uriniferous tubules ; gives them their size, shape, and stability; is in relation, on the one hand, with the vascular system of the organ, and on the other with the epithelial lining. It is simply in contact with the capillary plexus, which is fixed chiefly by their mutual interlacement; but the epithelium adheres to it by an organic a a, basement membrane; «', corpuscle in its substance; b b, epithelium in situ, consisting of particles of differ- ent dimensions, with minute granules in their inter- stices ; c, cavity of the tubule full of detached epithelium particles, of various size and appearance, and mingled with numerous seminal animalcules; d, one of these seminal animalcules. FIG. 274.—A PORTION OF A TUBULE OF THE TESTIS (GUINEA PfG, COBAYA), MAGNIFIED 300 TIMES. union. When detached from the vascular rete which it traverses, and deprived of its epithelium, it readily wrinkles (fig. 273, c) ; and such is its tenuity, that it is sometimes only by the folds thus occasioned that it becomes visible at all. The epithelium readily separates from it after a slight maceration, and also in many diseased states of the organ, such as inflammation and Bright's disease. Though this basement tissue isBASEMENT MUCOUS MEMBRANE 190 so delicate, its presence or absence in any fragment of a separate tubule may always be ascertained by the aspect of the marginal outline ; if this be linear and well-defined, the basement membrane is present, but if irregular and broken, the epithelium only. (Fig. 273, a b.) It sometimes happens that when the epithelium may seem to be altogether detached, the basement membrane retains, scattered evenly over its surface and at some distance apart, a number of roundish marks, of the size and aspect of the nuclei of epithelium particles. These are most probably the early condition of the new or advancing series of these particles. Its thickness in the kidney certainly does not exceed the ^oooo^h °f an English inch. I have discovered that in the Malpighian bodies of the kidney, which are the dilated extremities of the uriniferous ducts, with an enclosed tuft of arterial capillaries, the basement membrane is often, to some extent, naturally bare, i.e., without a covering of epithelium. This is the only situation of the body in which such an arrangement is known. In the testis, the same membrane may be shown without difficulty to be that which gives to its secreting tubules their peculiar strength; and here, as might be The basement membrane is seen at a a a, where the epithelium has been a little detached. FIG. 275.—TERMINAL VESICLES OF THE PANCREAS OF THE DOG, MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. expected, it is somewhat modified. The difference is principally as regards its thickness, which here reaches to o~o otn °f an English inch, and in some animals even exceeds that amount, its essential characters, however, remaining the same. In the larger tubes, emerging from the gland, this tunic becomes gradually invested by a delicate fibrous layer, by which the vascular network is attached to it, and which at first sight may appear to form an integrant part of the wall of the canal. In the salivary and all the allied glands, the basement membrane admits of being easily demonstrated. A very thin slice of the fresh organ should be torn by needles, gently washed, and inspected under a high power. The terminal vesicles of the duct will then be brought into view and their outline seen to be perfectly sharp and linear. (Fig. 275, a a a). In parts where the epithelium which they contain has been loosened, the basement membrane will be left in relief. It is of extreme delicacy ; and, as in all other situations, its capillary plexus (when well filled with coloured material) may be seen ramifying, not in its substance (for its tenuity renders such a disposition impossible), but on its parenchymal surface. I have sought in vain for the basement membrane in the lobules of the liver, and191 BASEMENT MUCOUS MEMBRANE. I am inclined to think that it does not exist in this gland, except in the excretory part of the bile ducts. In the air-cells of the lungs the basement membrane assumes a most interesting and remarkable development, for it constitutes almost the entire thickness of their walls, the epithelium being of extreme delicacy. It appears to be here strengthened by interlacing arches of elastic fibrous tissue, but to be itself transparent and homogeneous, as elsewhere. It is on its parenchymal surface that the close vascular web is spread out. But this membrane may be also detected in every part of the alimentary tube, which is more characteristically mucous, in that, viz., intervening between the cardia and the lower extremity of the canal. Here it deserves an attentive study on account of the apparent complexity of its foldings, and because its existence here offers the most unequivocal proof which we possess, of the anatomical identity of the true glands with the membranes usually called mucous. As it is more delicate in this part than any other, and difficult of detection by reason of the enormous preponderance of At a a, the basement membrane is seen between b b b, bulging epithelial particles. P FIG. 276. —LOWER EXTREMITY OF A STOMACH TUBULE FROM THE DOG (CANIS FAMILIARTS), MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. its epithelial investment, I shall describe the manner in which it may be best observed. The specimen should be as fresh and healthy as possible, or should have been immersed in alcohol immediately on its removal from the body; a fragment of the tubes of Lieberkiihn should then be scraped off, pulled to pieces, and examined in a fluid medium under a high power. The margins and rounded extremities of the tubes will then be seen to be sharply defined, as in the cases already mentioned, and to be formed by a structure independent of the epithelium, which latter forms -^ths of their thickness. This structure is the basement membrane. When masses of epithelium, escaped from the tubes and bearing their form, are met with floating around, their outline is uniformly irregular, and, as it were, woolly. Sometimes, as in the kidney (fig. 273), the basement membrane is seen up to a certain point only, beyond which it has been detached; and in less recent specimens a tube of basement membrane is sometimes seen, containing a mass of broken-down epithelium. If the part selected for examination be the stomach, the same precautions should be observed, for here this membrane is, if possible, more delicate than below the 2 i>192 BASEMENT MUCOUS MEMBRANE. pylorus, and the epithelial particles are often so large as to bulge the tubes very irregularly, especially towards their blind extremities". It is between these bulges that the basement membrane may be best seen (fig. 276). Nothing is more difficult than to explore, in a satisfactory manner, the internal structure of the intestinal villi. Their thick epithelial caps and their abundant vascular rete are readily demonstrable, but the arrangement of the lacteals, which undoubtedly exist in them, and of the structure on which the epithelium immediately rests, has hitherto almost entirely eluded our research. In vertical sections of the recent small intestine of the Carnivora, I have several times seen the direct continuity of the epithelium covering the villi, with that lining the tubes which open at their base; and also a distinct continuity between the interior of the villi, where the vessels are spread out, with the vascular intervals between the tubes, which contain the fine capillary web surrounding the tubes, and likewise give passage to the branches to and from the villi. It is then difficult to avoid the belief that the basement membrane of the tubes is continued under the epithelium of the villi, to support it, and form a part of those remarkable projections. Nevertheless, I have not been able to see it in an isolated and distinct form, and do not therefore assert its positive existence ; only I believe that the fact that the injected vessels of a villus, when seen in profile at its margin under a high power, and when the epithelium has been removed, seldom come to the extreme edge, is attributable to the circumstance of the basement membrane still investing them. This membrane, if it really exist here, adheres intimately to the parts within the villus. It might seem at first sight a hopeless task to search in so dense and complicated a structure as the skin, for the analogue of a membrane like that I have been describing, which, in no situation where it can be unequivocally brought into view, exceeds the 8000th of an inch in thickness. But as it must exist, if at all, between the epidermis and the vessels and nerves of the cutis, in a position sufficiently determinate, much of the apparent difficulty is removed. The most favourable situations for its detection are those in which the skin is highly developed, presenting, like the small intestine, villi (termed papilhe) on its free surface. The close resemblance between these papilhe and the villi of mucous membranes has been observed by many anatomists. The distribu- tion of the vessels within both is essentially the same. Here, then, under the epidermic layer, we might expect to find the basement membrane. I have removed with great care the whole of the epidermis from a thin vertical section of such a specimen (and it is better to have previously steeped it in solution of carbonate of potass), and have then examined the outline of the bare papillas with a power of 300 diameters. This outline is sharply defined, and appears to be formed by a homogeneous membrane, enclosing the vascular and nervous contents. This membrane I believe to be that which I am now describing, though, as in the case of the intestinal villi, I have never been able to isolate it, and thus unequivocally prove its presence. This is a part of the skin which has never been noticed by anatomists on account of its tenuity, butEPITHELIUM. 193 which is quite distinct from the cuticle, and the great mass of that complicated structure to which the terms " cutis " and " dermis " are applied. A very strong reason for believing this membrane to be present in the skin, is the fact of its existence in those minute organs, so profusely scattered under the cutaneous surface, the sebaceous and sudoriferous glands. In fig. 277 I have represented it in a portion of one of the latter, taken from the axilla, where they are very large. These glands are nothing more than involutions of the external tegument, and correspond closely with the labial and allied glands connected with the ordinary mucous membranes. It is impossible to suppose that a structure attaining so marked a development in those parts, should be wanting in the general superficies with which they are, at numberless points, directly continuous. In other situations, where a simple expanse of mucous membrane is spread out upon a surface of the body, as in the oesophagus, pharynx, mouth, nose, and its A, transverse section ; B, side view of the interior, obtained by bringing the axis of the tubule into focus ; a a a, basement membrane; b b b, epithelium; c c, cavity of the tubule ; d, superficial epithelial particles ; e, deep epithelial particles; /, a detached superficial particle, showing the nucleus and pigmentary granules; g, its detached nucleus, with a nucleolus. FIG. 277.—PART OF THE TUBULE OF A SUDORIFEROUS GLAND FROM THE HUMAN AXILLA, MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. sinuses, vagina, bladder, &c. (from all of which, however, there are numerous prolonga- tions called follicles and glands, which show this structure well), a basement tissue such as that described has not been shown to exist. Its existence rests at present principally on analogy, and it is difficult to say whether it be not more or less modified. Certain of the peculiarities presented by these several parts depend on a modified form and greatly augmented mass of the epithelial element, but many also on varieties in the areolar and vascular tissues underlying the mucous tissue, and, properly speaking, forming no part of it. These will be treated of under the topographical description of the membrane. Of the Epithelium. A very brief period has elapsed since it was universally held that most mucous membranes wanted epithelium, and their analogy with the skin was only maintained in this particular by a fancied resemblance drawn between epidermis and mucus. One of the principal results of microscopic observation, conducted with the 2 d 2EPITHELIUM. 194 improved modern instruments, is that of Henle, proving not only that this structure is present throughout the mucous system, but that in most situations it is so abundant as to constitute nearly the whole material of the tissue. This fact, as yet so novel, coupled with the discovery announced at the same time of the occurrence of a lining of analogous character on ali internal cavities, makes the study of this structure under its varied forms peculiarly interesting and important. It will readily be conceived how wide a field is here opened to view, and how premature it would yet be to attempt to offer a general history of such a structure. The numerous questions presenting themselves on every side render this impossible ; and if it were not so, the scope of the present article would oblige me to confine the description to those forms of epithelium met with in the mucous system. In acknowledging the great obligations I am under to Henle's admirable paper on this subject, I may state that the following account has been written as much as possible from my own observations. By the term epithelium is now meant a layer of particles or modified cells, furnished with nuclei and nucleoli, lining an internal surface of an organised body, and by their apposition and union constituting a kind of pavement. A similar investment to an external surface is styled epidermis. Both these, in their ordinary forms, will be embraced by the following description. Epithelium is an organised structure endowed with vitality. This is shown by its form, the process of its growth, and the living properties it displays. Of these the most eminent is that of ciliary motion, which in all the higher animals is performed by cilia clothing the free surface of epithelial particles. But in very many situations, if not in all, the processes of nutrition carried on in the epithelial layer of the mucous system differ materially from those of other organic tissues; the old elements, which in other cases are reconveyed into the blood, being here shed on the free surface of the membrane, and thus becoming at once eliminated from the system. The epithelial particles preserve a greater resemblance to the form of the development cell than most other tissues. In many parts they continue to be truly cells throughout their existence, and in no instance is the nucleus, from which they have proceeded, absorbed. In connection with a wide and varied range of function, these particles present numerous modifications of form, bulk, and texture, the leading features of which have been portrayed by Henle. The following arrangement, however, differs in several respects from that proposed by him/' and is more in accordance with that I have myself observed. Founding it on the anatomical condition of the particles and on their office, I distinguish these varieties,—the lamelliform or scaly, the prismatic, and the spheroidal. These all run together by imperceptible gradations. The particles may be also divided into non-ciliated and ciliated, the scaly being always bald, the prismatic and spheroidal in some situations furnished with cilia. * He divides it into pavement epithelium (or the scaly), cylinder epithelium (or the prismatic), and ciliated epithelium. See Muller's ' Archiv.' 1838195 LAMELLIFORM MUCOUS MEMBRANE. Of the Lamelliform or Scaly Variety. This consists of broad flattened particles (or scales, properly so called), having an angular outline (caused by their lateral apposition) and a nucleus, which is generally eccentric. These scales form layers of extremely variable thickness. They are generally, however, superimposed in great numbers over one another, as in the mouth, fauces, and oesophagus of the human subject, where they constitute the opaque defensive investment so visible to the eye in those parts. But the best-known example of this form is presented by the cuticle, which from its exposed position is thicker and denser than any internal epithelium. This variety, a, superficial laminae, consisting of true scales; b, c, particles in progress of flattening; d, deep layer of particles; a, V, c, d', separate particles in the several stages. FIG. 278.—VERTICAL SECTION OF THE EPITHELIUM OF THE MOUTH, SHOWING ITS LAMELLA AND THE CHANGES OF FORM WHICH THE PARTICLES SUCCESSIVELY UNDERGO. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. then, is the one which offers the most convincing proof of the homology of the mucous membranes with the skin. The term " scales " is only applicable to these particles in the last of the stages through which they pass. They first appear on the surface of the basement membrane as granular dots, each of which soon becomes invested with a cell membrane. Both nucleus and cell increase in size up to a certain point, the eell being then more or less globular, and containing a material that appears transparent FIG. 279.—A FEW SCALES DETACHED FROM THE SURFACE OF THE UVULA. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. and almost entirely fluid. By this circumstance, chiefly, it is distinguished from the spheroidal form of particle, presently to be noticed. The cell now begins to flatten, loses its fluid contents, and is at the same time the seat of certain changes by which its chemical properties are modified. At length its opposite surfaces unite, except where the nucleus intervenes, and a lamella of extreme tenuity results, which being now arrived at the surface is loosened and shed. It appears to be by the continual pressure arising from the growth of newly-formed particles that the peculiar characters of this variety result. Accordingly, the scales are only found constituting the superficial196 COLUMNAR MUCOUS MEMBRANE. layers of a series (fig, 278, a a). It is met with in those parts only where foreign pressure, or more properly friction, has to be encountered. In such parts a thick coating of epithelium is evidently desirable, and the hard and almost horny qualities which these particles at length assume where most exposed to violence, admirably adapt them for their object. On such parts, moreover, cilia would not be needed, and it would even seem that this variety of epithelium when converted into true scales possesses neither sufficient substance nor vital power to develop and support these exquisite organs. The scaly epithelium is remarkable for the tenacity with which its particles adhere to one another, and to the surface on which they rest. This adhesion is manifest at all the stages through which the particles pass. It is stronger between particles at the same stage than between those at different stages of growth, so that there is always a tendency to a separation into successive lamina? on maceration or otherwise. Hence have resulted the divisions of the epidermis into two, three, or more layers, and especially that remarkable fallacy of regarding the rete mucosum as a distinct structure. How far this adhesion is owing to the presence of an intercellular substance in all instances it is difficult to decide; but it seems highly probable that, in the deepest layers, where the particles are small and rounded, such a substance must exist in considerable abundance, filling up the interstices, and serving as a kind of blastema, in which the nuclei (or cytoblasts) of fresh particles originate. I have lately (Jan., 1842) ascertained a very curious fact, giving evidence of this adhesion. This is, that the delicate threads drawn out of the cutis when the cuticle is stripped from a piece of macerated skin, consist entirely of the epithelium of the sweatducts, the particles of which are so intimately united with one another, and with those of the deeper layers of the epidermis, as to allow of being thus dragged out of their tube of basement membrane, often for a length of an eighth of an inch. The scaly epithelium is subdivisible into two forms, the regular and the irregular. In the former, the scales are united edge to edge in a regular manner, as in the skin of the Erog and other Eeptiles, and on many internal surfaces, especially in the lower animals. In this form, the particles do not become so thin as in the other, and the superficial scales are cast off in lamina? consisting of a single series and of uniform thickness. In the latter form, they overlap one another without order, and present no regular figure. This is the ordinary form, and is that presented in the skin and other parts of Mammalia and Birds. Of the Prismatic Variety* In this the particles have the shape of small rods, disposed endwise on the base- ment membrane, in a single layer, the thickness of which depends on their length. * To this the very appropriate term columnar has been lately given by Professor Todd.COLUMNAR MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 197 These rods are united to one another by their sides, which are flattened for that purpose. They are, therefore, prisms and not cylinders, as Henle terms them. They are also almost invariably of very unequal thickness in different parts, being bulged some- where near the middle by the nucleus, which is oval, with its long axis parallel to that of the particle. Their deep or attached extremity, also, usually tapers to a point, in order, probably, to allow room for new particles to spring up in the intervals. This is a a, solitary particles remaining attached; b, club-shaped extremity of the villus from which the epithelium has been detached; c c, epithelium at its base. Magnified 150 diameters. d, detached particles, showing their close union, especially at the surface (at the letter) ; e, other detached particles, showing their various shape, their nuclei and nucleoli. The letter is placed at their free extremity. Magnified 350 diameters. FIG. 280.—VILLUS OF THE INTESTINUM ILIUM OF THE DOG, WITH THE EPITHELIUM PARTIALLY DETACHED. more decidedly the case where they clothe a convex surface (as that of the intestinal villi), and their sides tend to assume the direction of radii from a common centre. Hence tliey are sometimes even triangular in outline. Their opposite or free extremity is much thicker, often as thick as the part bulged by the nucleus, and near this extremity neighbouring particles are generally very intimately attached to one another, having often the appearance of being blended into a single mass. The best example of this is on the villi of the small intestine (fig. 280). The contiguous particles, however, W a, ciliated epithelial particle from the inner surface of the membrana tympani of the human subject; b, ciliated epithelial particles from the bronchial mucous membrane of the human subject. All these show the nuclei and nucleoli. FIG. 281.—MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. are fitted closely together in the greater portion of their length, and to effect this the bulging nuclei vary in the height at which they are placed. There can be no doubt, that, in certain situations at least, as will be afterwards shown, these particles are being continually shed, and consequently are being perpetually renovated. But it is very difficult to ascertain their early condition and changes, and I am not aware of any satisfactory observations having been made for this end. From the great facility with which they become detached from the surface they invest, it is next to impossible196 SPHEROIDAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE, to examine them in situ on thin vertical sections. But there is no reason for supposing their mode of growth to be originally different from that of the scaly variety. Their nuclei probably appear first on the surface of the basement membrane, and around these a cell is developed (fig. 280, a). But this cell from its earliest period seems to contain an amorphous substance, which under high microscopic powers looks finely mottled, but not so definitely so as to allow of being called granular. As the particle a, small particle, apparently in an early stage of development—the nucleus is smaller than in the other specimens; b, another more advanced—the nucleus and surrounding substance are both larger, especially the latter, which presents a fine granular texture; c, a particle made angular by pressure against others—it presents two nuclei, as though formed by fission; d, another of a different shape ; e, detached nucleus, showing its transparency and clear outline; also two eccentric dots, the nucleoli. FIG. 282.—EPITHELIAL PARTICLES FROM THE CORN IF UTERI OF THE COW. THE OPPOSITE CORNU CONTAINED A F(ETUS ONE INCH AND A HALF LONG. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. advances towards its full size, it loses its cell-membrane, and when complete is to be regarded rather as a solid mass of organic substance, surrounding a nucleus, than as a cell. Here, then, is a striking difference between the scale and the prism: maturity being marked in the one by the disappearance of the substance of the cell; in the other, by that of the cell-membrane. Of the Spheroidal Variety (see figs. 273 to 277). In this the particles are of a rounded form, though generally somewhat flattened where they touch. They are always thick, from the substance they contain. It is this variety that constitutes the chief mass of the secreting glands, and hence it might not improperly be styled glandular. It corresponds with the prismatic variety, in its usually constituting in the glands a single layer, and in the predom- 'M^foff a' nucleus ; i, nucleolus ; c, fatty particle. FIG. 283.—THREE EPITHELIAL PARTICLES FROM THE HUMAN LIVER. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. inance, from the first, of its substance over its membrane. In the glands, indeed, the membrane can seldom be discerned at all, and the substance surrounding the nucleus, though more bulky, has the same finely mottled character already noticed in the prisms. In other situations the cell-membrane is persistent, but even then it never flattens into a scale. This variety presents in the different glands numerous modifications, which have not yet been studied with the accuracy they merit. It199 NON-CILIATED AND CILIATED EPITHELIUM. is difficult to reject the belief that it is intimately concerned in the glandular function, and varies in correspondence with it. To the preceding summary account of these three principal kinds of epithelium much might be added respecting the intermediate forms. This, however, does not appear to be required in so general a description. The spheroidal and the prismatic are seen blended in the specimen I have figured from the human membrana tympani (fig. 281). Of the Non-Ciliated and Ciliated Epithelium. The true scaly variety appears never to be clothed with cilia. The prismatic epithelium is that which most commonly bears these vibratile organs. They are placed on the free extremities of the prisms in the respiratory tract and in the uterus and Fallopian tubes. The true glandular epithelium is always without cilia. This is a general fact, and one of great importance. But those varieties which seem intermediate between the spheroidal and the other two forms are often furnished with cilia; of which examples may be seen in the Malpighian bodies of the kidney, in the mucous membrane of the Frog's mouth, and in that of the human FIG. 284.—VARIOUS b, c, small particles that have not reached the surface. They appear to present three stages or periods, showing a subdivision of the nucleus and a formation of two cells out of one; d, three fully developed particles, with cilia on their free surface; e, /, g, other complete particles, showing cilia on that part only which has formed a portion of the general surface of the membrane. PARTICLES OP EPITHELIUM FROM THE FROG'S MOUTH, MAGNIFIED 400 DIAMETERS. tympanum (fig. 281). In all cases the cilia, when they exist, are developed only on that aspect of the particles which forms a portion of the general surface of the membrane. It is as yet entirely unknown by what process the cilia are produced and nourished; whether the particles, with their cilia, are shed from time to time, and are succeeded by others (as is most probable), or whether the same organs remain, and merely change their component elements. (On the subject of Cilia in general the reader is referred to Dr. Sharpey's excellent article.) 2 E200 ELEMENTARY TISSUES OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. Of the Elementary Tissues Appended to the Mucous System. The two elementary tissues now described may be considered as the more essential constituents of the mucous system, or as forming the simple mucous membrane. This simple mucous membrane envelopes the rest of the body. It contains within its own substance neither vessels nor nerves, but is, strictly speaking, extra-vascular. By modifications, chiefly of the epithelial element, it is in itself capable of presenting great variety of appearance and properties in different situations. But in immediate connection with its deep surface, that is, with the basement membrane, there are certain tissues common to almost every part of the frame, but here assuming a peculiar arrangement and office, and by their diversities in various localities, occasioning the most complicated varieties of outward form, of structure, and of function. a, a, arteries; b, b, vein?. FIG. 285. CAPILLARIES ON THE RECTUM OF THE FROG. These appended tissues are minute bloodvessels, a lymphatic network, nerves, and areolar tissue. It has been already stated that in many parts the simple mucous membraue, by its innumerable minute involutions over an extensive surface, is formed into a compound membrane. Into the composition of this (of which a good example is afforded by that of the stomach) the appended tissues enter more or less largely, but they are likewise, in addition, generally spread out in great abundance as a layer underneath the compound membrane. This layer has been commonly termed submucous cellular membrane (sometimes tunica nervea), in the case of internal surfaces, and cutis vera or dermis in the case of the skin.BLOODVESSELS. 201 Bloodvessels. These may be said to be universally present under the simple mucous mem- brane, with the exception perhaps of the cornea, where vessels, in the normal state have not yet been demonstrated. The capillaries, in their simplest form, appear to be arranged as a plane network, such as that of the rectum of the Frog (fig. 285). The interstices of this network vary much in size and shape in different localities. The most copious supply of blood distributed to any such membrane is that afforded to the air-cells of the lungs in all animals. Here this plane capillary plexus has areolae scarcely exceeding the diameter of the vessels themselves. Where the membrane they supply is folded, however irregularly, they follow its surface, and hence result many varieties in their arrangement and inosculations. It even seems to be for the purpose of gaining a great freedom of inosculation between the capillaries that the extraordinary complexity has been given to many parts of the simple membrane, especially in the secreting glands. For many foldings from somewhat distant parts of the membrane are there brought into immediate proximity to on another, and are supplied by the same or closely connected vessels. This is remarkably exemplified in the testis, kidney, and liver. The capillary system of all these, as well as of other solid glands, may be styled a solid plexus, being extended in every direction, and presenting areolae of nearly equal size in whatever plane a section of it be made. The liver presents the most perfect instance of such a solid plexus, and in it the vessels are of unusual dimensions, apparently to allow of the more free transit of the blood, which is here propelled feebly by the vis a tergo acting through the capillaries that form the portal vein. Though it has not been so described, I believe, from injections that I have made, that the whole organ is one such plexus, and that if it were possible to abstract from it all vessels larger than capillaries, and to leave these entire, all the lobules would still be connected together by capillary channels identical with those of which they themselves principally consist. Hence the lobules of the liver are not definitely bounded on all sides by a capsule of any kind, but here and there blend by continuity of substance with those adjoining them. The larger portion of their contour is, however, well defined by the ultimate twigs of the portal vein, and of the ducts derived from the lobule, as so clearly proved by Mr. Kieknan in his well-known paper. The size of the capillaries varies much in different parts of the mucous system. In the liver they are very capacious, always one-third wider than the diameter of the blood globule, and sometimes nearly double. In the lungs they are almost equally great. In the intestinal villi also they are of large dimensions. In these organs they form a network on the inner surface of the basement membrane, and are supplied by an artery that ascends in the axis of the villus. The veins from this network are generally two, one 'on each side. This plexus of the villi is strikingly contrasted by 2 e 2202 LACTEAL AND LYMPHATIC VESSELS. that clothing the tubes that open at their base. In this latter I have observed the diameter to be as small as that of the capillaries of the salivary glands, which do not exceed the width of a blood globule. This disparity is another confirmation of the opinion that the villi are chiefly absorbing, and the tubes secreting organs. Many other varieties might be enumerated, but these are among the most remarkable. Under most of the compound mucous membranes bloodvessels are spread out in great profusion, and especially in certain localities. The arteries and veins respectively form plane plexuses, more or less close, more or less intricate, from which emerge branches that pass between the foldings of the simple membrane and communicate with its capillaries, already described. There may even be a series of these arterial and venous plexuses situated one over another, and successively springing out of one another. The effect of this arrangement of an arterial network on one side of the capillaries, and a venous network on the other side, is that the blood, besides being delayed in their neighbourhood, is most freely and equably distributed in the capillaries themselves : a condition which could scarcely be otherwise accomplished, since, in the case of a villous membrane at least, the capillaries form a series of isolated systems, of which one belongs to each villus. The arrangement now spoken of exists in the sub- mucous aerolar tissue of the stomach and intestinal canal, and in most parts of the skin. In the solid glands, where the capillaries form one continuous system, such arterial and venous networks are not found. At least such inosculations, when they exist, are few and rare. In the stomach of many fishes there is a plexus of great thickness under the mucous membrane. In the nose also, chiefly on the spongy bones and septum, there is a plexus of very large veins well known to anatomists, and also a less capacious arterial plexus; smaller ones are met with in other parts, as the cheeks and lips, the palate and pharynx. The use of these, especially that of the nose, may be to serve as a diverticulum for the blood in cerebral congestions. These are the vessels that give way in ordinary epistaxis. Of the Lacteal and Lymphatic Vessels. The lacteals have their sole origin from a plexus underlying the simple mucous membrane of the alimentary canal, and it is probable that in every part of the skin a close network exists, such as has bepn described by several anatomists. Considering the means hitherto at command for ascertaining the precise position of this network, it is not wonderful that disputes should have arisen as to whether it lies in the rete Malpighii, or within the surface of the dermis. I would hazard the opinion that the real situation of this plexus is underneath the basement membrane which is everywhere present in the skin.203 NERVES AND AREOLAR TISSUE. Of the Nerves. These are numerous and varied, as might be expected from the position of the mucous system in regard to the rest of the body. They may all be styled afferent, and are divisible into three kinds, viz., the sensory, the excito-motory, and the sympathetic. The nerves of special sense distributed to this system are those of smell, taste, and touch. The nerves of commen sensation and the excito-motory nerves are almost exclusively found here. The tubules of the sympathetic nerves are chiefly given to the proper mucous membranes and to the glands. All these will be considered more at length under other heads, and they are therefore only referred to here. Of the Areolar Tissue. Before describing the remarkable varieties presented by this tissue under different parts of the mucous system, I must advert to its constitution in those situations where its ordinary characters are well marked—as in subcutaneous fascia, in muscle, on the exterior of the pharynx, &c. Singular as it may appear, there is no correct account of this structure in any of the works on minute anatomy. It in truth consists of two tissues, distinct from each other, and respectively allied to the white and to the yellow fibrous tissues. The white fibrous element of areolar tissue is chiefly in the form of bands of very unequal thickness, in which are to be seen numerous streaks taking the general direction of the whole, but not parallel to the border, nor continuous from end to end. These streaks more resemble the creases of a longitudinal folding than intervals between separate fibriilae, for which they have been mistaken. These bands split up without difficulty in the long direction, whence result fibrils of the most varied width, the finest being far too minute for measurement, even with the best instruments.* These bands interlace and cross one another in various directions, and their natural course is wavy. They frequently subdivide and join those near them. Besides these bands, commonly called fasciculi, there are some finer filaments of the utmost tenuity which seem to take an uncertain course among the rest. The yellow fibrous element is everywhere in the form of solitary fibrillar, which correspond in their essential characters with the tissue of that name. They are disposed to curl, and are truly branched at intervals of variable length; these branches (which usually retain the size of the fibril from which they spring) becoming continuous with others in the neighbourhood. They have higher refractive properties than the white element, and their borders are consequently darker. It is easy to overlook this twofold composition of areolar tissue in specimens * The fibrillse of true white fibrous tissue are almost precisely similar, and, as I believe, are only produced by the observer himself in opening out his specimen for inspection.204 AREOLAR TISSUE OF GLANDS. examined in water, but their discrimination is made easy by a trifling artifice. This consists in adding a drop of acetic acid, which instantly swells the white bands, and makes them transparent, but produces no change in the yellow fibrils. These effects of the acid may be watched, if the agent be made to spread gradually over the specimen ; and there can scarcely be conceived a more beautiful example of the aid chemistry will afford anatomy than that presented in the course of this interesting process.* The change produced in the white bands is such as to show very clearly that they are not truly fasciculi, or aggregations of fibrillse. The action of the acid on these two elements is identical with that produced on the two tissues to which I have shown them to be anatomically allied. To these two elements of areolar tissue are to be attributed physical properties similar to those of white and yellow fibrous tissues, and these will vary greatly in different situations, according to the proportion and mode of arrangement under which the two elements co-exist. Of the Areolar Tissue of Glands. There appears to be a very prevalent misconception with regard to the quantity of this tissue found in the interior of the large glands, as the liver and kidney. It is imagined that it penetrates into every interstice, mingles with the capillary rete, and envelopes the ultimate secreting tubules. It is, however, impossible in the most recent specimen of these organs to discover anything answering to this description. All that can usually be detected is a small quantity accompanying the larger vessels in their course within the organ, and forming septa between its coarse subdivisions. And it would be difficult to suppose a purpose which a more abundant supply could subserve. The capillary network and the secreting tubules by their mutual and intricate interlacement sufficiently sustain one another; no freedom of motion is required between them ; there is no force tending to separate them. I am far from saying, however, that the ultimate substance of these glands consists only of simple mucous membrane and bloodvessels. In the interstices of these there are probably nerves and lymphatics, of the mode of termination of which we know nothing, but which seem much fewer than is commonly supposed. There is also more or less of an interstitial amorphous substance, hereafter to be described. In these glands, and in the substance of many compound mucous membranes, there are to be seen here and there small bodies not unlike cellular tissue in an early stage of its development. They have a bulging nucleus from which they taper to the * In the case of the dai'tos, this procedure detects not only what has just been described, but a third element, bitherto in this situation quite confounded with areolar tissue. This is nan-striated muscle, at once known by its being loaded with corpuscles, or persistent cell-nuclei. See ' Muscle.'AREOLAR TISSUE OF GLANDS. 205 extremities; and they are much longer and slenderer than the prismatic epithelium. With their nature and use I am at present quite unacquainted. The lungs seem mainly to owe their extraordinary elasticity to the yellow fibrous element of their submucous areolar tissue. This is spread in great abundance under the whole surface, and much predominates over the white. In the trachea and bronchia it is besides largely developed in longitudinal bands visible through the mucous membrane. In the whole of this region its fibrils take a general longitudinal direction, but branch and inosculate at very frequent intervals, enclosing areolas of small dimensions. But this element does not cease with the tubes ; it is prolonged in the form of branching, arching bands over the basement membrane of the air-cells which it renders elastic and firmly supports. Where mucous membranes are not destined to move on the parts they cover, the areolar tissue beneatli them is very scanty. This is the case in the nasal cavities, even in the portions furnished with a great substratum of bloodvessels. But where much motion is required, as where a muscular lamina underlies the mucous, and the enclosed cavity is liable to vary in its dimensions, the areolar tissue is copious, and very similar in its elements and in the size of its interstices to the ordinary forms. Examples of this are seen in the whole alimentary tract. But it is under the cutaneous part of the mucous system that this tissue assumes its highest development. Elsewhere its object is to promote freedom of movement, or to confer elasticity. Here it answers both these purposes, and in addition gives a great capacity of resistance against external pressure and violence. The former end is attained by the structure called subcutaneous fascia, which is a large quantity of this tissue in its ordinary form. The two latter are effected by that more condensed part to which the term of cutis has been given. This last is the structure to which the submucous areolar tissue of the intestinal canal mainly corresponds, as may be shown by an examination of the submucous tissue of the mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus, which holds an intermediate place. To describe its modifications in different situations would be to encroach too much on the province of another article, and a few general remarks must here suffice. The framework of the cutis may be said to consist entirely of a modified form of the areolar tissue. Both elements are enormously developed, but especially the yellow fibrous one. The fibriUse of this are thicker than elsewhere, and branch and inosculate with great freedom, enclosing interstices open on all sides, and giving passage to the wavy bands of the white fibrous element as well as to vessels, nerves, the ducts of the sweat-glands, the sebaceous glands, and the roots of the hairs. These interstices are in general very close, but they vary with the size of the parts which occupy them. On the deep surface of the cutis the yellow fibrous element changes gradually into that of the subcutaneous fascia, or that of ordinary areolar tissue. It cannot be doubted that the skin chiefly owes its elasticity and toughness to this remarkable development of the yellow fibrous element.206 GASTRO-PULMONARY AND GENITO-URINARY TRACTS. Topographical View of the Mucous System in Man. Eeferring the reader to the article ' Skin' for a detailed description of that part of the mucous system, and its immediate dependencies, I shall now proceed to point out some of the more remarkable varieties of the internal tracts. These tracts have been usually comprehended under two general divisions, the gastro-pulmonary, and the genito-urinary. The former is continuous with the skin at six points, the two eyelids, the two nostrils, the mouth, and the anus; the latter at a single one, the orifice of the urethra in the male, and the labia pudendi in the female. Besides these, there are two smaller tracts, the mammary, each of which is subdivided into several, which open separately on the skin. The description of the gastro-pulmonary tract may be commenced at the lips. It covers their inner surface, the cheeks, gums, tongue, and palate, and extends into the labial, buccal, and larger salivary glands, of which it constitutes the chief mass. It passes over the arches of the palate (where its involutions form the tonsils), and lines the pharynx, Eustachian tubes, and the cavities of the tympana. Penetrating into the nose by the posterior nares, it lines all the passages and chambers of that organ, and advances along the nasal duct to the lachrymal sac. Thence it may be traced along the canaliculi to the front of the eye, where it takes the name of tunica conjunctiva; covers the posterier surface of the eyelids, a certain portion of the sclerotic, and the cornea, and forms the caruncula, the Meibomian and lachrymal glands. In these complicated portions of its course, the membrane shares more or less in the construction of the five organs of special sense, and is the essential seat of two of them, taste and smell. From the pharynx it spreads in two directions ; first, into the larynx, trachea, tracheal glands, and bronchial ramifications, until it terminates by forming the air-cells of the lungs; secondly, into the alimentary canal. Here it lines the oesophagus, stomach, and intestinal tube, as far as the anus, and it penetrates along the excreting ducts of the liver and pancreas, into the inmost recesses of those glands, to form their secreting surface. The genito-urinary tract may be traced along the urethra into the bladder, ureters, and pelvis of the kidneys ; and thence into the substance of those organs as far as the Malpighian bodies, the extremities of the uriniferous tubules. In connection with the urethra, processes pass to the glands of Cowper; and, in the male, into the interior of the prostate, the vesiculas seminales, vasa deferentia, and tubules of the testes. In the female, the vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes receive a lining from it, which, at the fimbriated extremity of those canals, becomes continuous with the serous membrane of the abdomen.* * This remarkable exception to a general fact has long attracted attention. As a mere anatomical difficulty, it has lately received curious illustration from Henle's discovery of the existence of an epithelium on serous and other allied surfaces. But its true explanation can probably only be attained by a study of its morphology, joined with that of its final cause.207 PECULIARITIES OF THE SKIN AND MUCOUS MEMBRANES. The very remarkable differences presented to the eye by different parts of this system have been a source of great difficulty to anatomists, who, on other grounds, believed them to be nearly allied ; and it would appear that hitherto no satisfactory explanation has been given of the anatomical conditions on which this variety depends. This deficiency I shall now endeavour in some degree to supply. From the examina- tions I have made, I have been led to consider in a distinct and separate manner the several elementary tissues already mentioned, composing the simple mucous membrane, and lying underneath it; and am come to the conclusion that the most complicated diversities that are met with, admit, when studied in this manner, of being explained and reconciled to a common type of structure. Peculiarities of the Skin, Mucous Membranes, and Glands. Of the Skin.—This is chiefly peculiar in its epithelial element and its submucous areolar tissue. The epidermis is composed of a vast number of superimposed laminse of scales, which, in the earlier stages of their development, and especially in certain races of mankind, contain minute pigment granules in their interior. The pigment disappears more or less completely as the particles attain the surface. It is continued for some distance down the hair follicles and sweat-ducts, and thus serves to mark the continuity of these parts with the general surface. Hairs, nails, hoofs, and other similar appendages are all composed of modified epithelial particles, and are nearly peculiar to the skin. The sebaceous and perspiratory glands, and the spiral ducts of the latter traversing the epidermis, are also among the most characteristic features of this part of the mucous system. The papillae of the skin have their counterpart in the villi of the mucous membranes ; the cutis vera, as it is called, has also its analogue in the submucous areolar tissue, but it is so enormously developed that the resemblance has escaped the notice of anatomists. Its characters have been already briefly described. It is a striking fact that the cutis, like the submucous areolar tissue, contains no fat, even in the most corpulent subjects. I have repeatedly made this remark. The cutis differs in this respect from the subcutaneous fascia, which is therefore, perhaps, to be regarded as less allied to the submucous areolar tissue. Of the Mucous Membranes.—These hold an intermediate place between the skin and the true glands. They blend insensibly with the former at the different orifices of the body, and may, under favourable conditions, become so modified as to assume the appearance of skin. The change then wrought is nothing more,however,than an increased deposit of epithelial scales, with an absence of the natural moisture ; and it may be doubted whether a transformation of this kind could occur in a mucous membrane of 2 FPECULIARITIES OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 208 which the epithelium was not of the scaly variety. On the other hand certain parts of the membranes usually termed mucous are nothing less than real glands arranged in a membranous form. The mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, the vagina and vaginal surface of the uterus, are the parts whose lining membrane most nearly resembles the skin. Their most remarkable feature is the thickness of their covering of epithelial scales, provided for their protection against foreign contact and pressure, and in connection with this the existence of numerous glands opening upon them for the lubrication of their surface. Many of these glands correspond with the sweat-glands of the skin in being similarly scattered under the surface. Such are the buccal and all the small glands allied to them, which, in particular, resemble the largely developed sweat-glands of the axilla. The only difference between them is in the mode of involution of the secreting membrane, which in the former is cellulated, in the latter tubular. These portions of the mucous membranes also approach the skin by the denseness of their submucous areolar tissue. In the pharynx it is only that part of the lining membrane below the posterior arches of the palate, or that exposed to friction during deglutition, that has the dermoid • characters now described : all above is more delicate, is clothed with ciliated epithelial prisms, and belongs physiologically to the nasal or respiratory tract, The lower or buccal surface of the soft palate diners in a similar way from the upper. The lining membrane of the Eustachian tubes and tympana is very delicate, none of the elementary tissues predominating. The epithelium is in a single layer of prisms clothed with cilia. The submucous areolar tissue is in very small quantity, and the vascular network consists of little more than a simple plane expansion. In the nose, the epithelium, according to Henle, is scaly on the septum, and on the alas for some way within the nostrils. Here also there are hairs—an advance towards the characters of the skin ; beyond this it is everywhere ciliated, even within the bony sinuses. The membrane covering these sinuses is of extreme tenuity, and presents the elementary tissues all in a simple form. That covering the pendulous parts of the spongy bones, on the contrary, has long been noted for its great thickness—a character due to neither of the elements of the mucous tissue itself, but to the extraordinary size of the submucous vessels. Both arteries and veins are large, but especially the latter, which here form a plexus immediately beneath the surface, and not separated from it by any considerable quantity of dense areolar tissue. Hence the facility with which these vessels give way externally when distended with blood. The lining of the nose has been sometimes called a fibro-mucous membrane, from its close connection with the periosteum. The periosteum in the sinuses is extremely delicate, in consequence of the tenuity of the bony laminas it invests; and it would perhaps be impossible to separate it there from the submucous areolar tissue. The globe and cornea are covered with scaly epithelium, of which the particles are smaller209 PECULIARITIES OP MUCOUS MEMBRANE. towards the folds of the eyelids,* where they gradually become prismatic, and along the tarsal borders clothed with cilia, so small as to be only recognisable a short time after death. The conjunctiva of the lower lid is very minutely villous. At the pharyngeal orifice of the glottis, the epithelium becomes ciliated and continues so along the trachea and bronchial ramifications as far as the air-cells, but, according to my own observations, the cilia there cease, and the epithelium changes its character to a remarkable variety of the glandular form. In the air-passages, as formerly described, the submucous areolar tissue presents a remarkable modification, and is closely joined to the perichondrium of the inner surface of the cartilages. It is worthy of remark that the glands with which the tracheal portion of the membrane is furnished, are not placed, like the buccal, duodenal, and other similar glands,-immediately subjacent to the mucous membrane, but on the posterior surface of the trachealis muscle, which is pierced by their ducts. This peculiar arrangement would seem to be accounted for by the deviation from the ordinary form which the submucous areolar tissue here presents, and which renders it ill adapted to give to these irregular-shaped bodies that loose investment which they everywhere possess, and which therefore appears necessary to them. The mucous lining of the whole alimentary canal below the cardia is the largest and best marked example of what I have termed the compound mucous membrane, being composed of vertical tubes which are truly glands, opening on the general surface. That of the small intestine presents villi also. This entire membrane is very soft and easily torn, because its chief mass consists of an epithelium, the particles of which adhere but slightly either to one another or to the basement membrane, and are everywhere disposed in a single layer. There is moreover scarcely any areolar tissue between its involutions, which have, therefore, little besides the vascular web to sustain them. The submucous areolar tissue is in considerable abundance between the mucous and the muscular coats. The lining membrane of the hepatic and pancreatic ducts is simple, and its epithelium of the prismatic variety. In the genito-urinary tract, the epithelium presents every variety. The fossa navicularis* is clothed with small, flat, or roundish scales, the rest of the urethra with a single series of prismatic particles. The cells of the prostate are lined with spheroidal epithelium, the vasa deferentia with prisms. In the vesiculse seminales there is a pavement of somewhat flattened granules, and also in Cowper's glands. In the bladder, ureters, and pelves of the kidneys, the epithelium is in the form of longish cells intermediate between the spheroidal and the prismatic varieties. The nymphse, clitoris, hymen, and vagina are covered with scaly epithelium, and this has been noticed by Henle in cases where the hymen has been entire. Within the neck of the uterus the epithelium becomes prismatic and clothed with cilia, and so continues over the surface of the uterus and Fallopian tubes, and even for some distance over the outer surface of their fimbriated extremities, Beyond this it merges gradually into the compressed * HliNLK, loc, fit.PECULIARITIES OF GLANDS. 210 cells of the serous membrane. The lining membrane of the Fallopian tubes, as well as that of the uterus, is of a compound nature, especially during gestation, and consists of tubules arranged vertically to the general surface. It is to be observed that the cilia only clothe the general surface, and that the epithelium lining the tubules is spheroidal, or intermediate between that and the prismatic. It is a form of the glandular variety, and bears no cilia. Of the Glands.—The varieties apparent in these organs also may be explained by an examination of the modifications and modes of aggregation of the elementary tissues already mentioned. It may be said, in general terms, that the glands are characterised by their solid form, by the great preponderance of their epithelial and vascular tissues, and by the small quantity of their areolar tissue. It is rare for this last to invest every individual involution of the mucous surface in the interior of a gland; but it usually gives a common covering to the whole organ, as well as less complete ones to those subdivisions of it, termed lobes or lobules, which result from the mode of distribution of the bloodvessels and duct, and are designed for the purposes of package or protection. Such an investment is usually termed the proper coat or capsule of a gland, and seems to correspond most nearly with the submucous areolar tissue of the compound mucous membrane, as, for example, that of the intestinal canal. The propriety of these remarks will appear, on a particular application of them. As I before entered somewhat in detail into the internal composition of the liver, it may now be selected for illustration. The epithelium, which in the gall-bladder and larger ducts is of the prismatic kind, becomes bulky and of a flattened spheroidal form, in the lobules. It there also acquires a peculiar character, viz., numerous minute globules of an oily or fatty nature, disseminated within the substance of each particle. The basement tissue seems to cease, and on an examination of a thin section of the lobule under a high power of the microscope, its chief bulk appears to consist of epithelium. Tliere is scarcely a trace of areolar tissue to be anywhere detected. Even the coats of the capacious capillary bloodvessels, in the close meshes of which the ultimate ramifications of the bile ducts are situated, are with difficulty seen, and are of extreme delicacy. The submucous areolar tissue of the hepatic ducts, with which the whole of the contiguous capsule of Glisson should be associated, cannot, when arrived at the lobules, be followed into their interior. It can only be distinguished in very slender quantity, giving them a partial investment, on those aspects which share in forming the portal and hepatic-venous canals, and where, in the angles of union between three or more lobules, a terminal twig of the portal vein runs up to open on all sides into their capillary plexus. No lobule is isolated from the rest by a complete capsule, but communicates immediately by its capillary network, with those near it. The intralobular vein has a similar want of areolar tissue around it; and thus the main mass of the lobule, and of the whole liver, consists of epithelium and a plexus of capillaries. Those lobules, however, whichPECULIARITIES OF GLANDS. 211 contribute to form the general surface of the organ have an additional and dense covering of areolar tissue on that surface ; a covering, which has the same relation to the mucous element, as that on the portal aspect; which is continuous with the capsule of Glisson at numerous points ; and which is here developed as a membrane of support, as a nidus for a lymphatic rete, and as a foundation for the peritoneal tunic, that it sustains. The nerves and lymphatic vessels of the interior of the liver, though but little known, are too inconsiderable in point of size to affect the general accuracy of this description. Hence it evidently appears, on what modifications of the elements of the mucous tissue and of those appended to it, the peculiar friability, colour, and other properties of this organ depend. If the " parenchymatous" areolar tissue abounded in this gland to the extent implied in the descriptions of Bichat and some more recent authors, no doubt its toughness would be far greater than it really is. But where an organ is sufficiently screened from injury by its position, where its different parts are so well connected by the continuity of a close network of capillary vessels, and are not required to move on one another, it would be difficult to imagine what purpose a greater development of areolar tissue would serve. In the kidney, the epithelial and vascular elements are in corresponding abundance, the areolar tissue in very small quantity. The general texture, however, is more tough than in the liver, from the universal presence of the basement membrane on the tubes. In the medullary portion, the tubes radiate from the apex towards the base of the cones, and are imbedded in a firm, granular substance, not hitherto described, but which resembles a blastema, and is probably composed of cells. In this substance is also imbedded the capillary plexus surrounding the tubes, as well as the vessels that convey blood to and from this plexus, and take the same direction as the tubes. Hence the firmness and close texture of this part of the kidney as compared with the other, and the facility with which it tears from the apex to the base of the cones. At the base of the cones, the tubes enter the cortical substance and take a course, in sets, towards the surface. The central tubes of each set reach the surface and then recline inwards and become convoluted. But the others bend down one after another and become convoluted before reaching the surface. All at length terminate in the Malpighian bodies, which lie among the convolutions. The arteries and veins also take a general course from the hilus towards the surface. Hence, on teariDg the cortical part of the organ, there is a disposition for the laceration to occur in lines continuous with the radii of the medullary cones, and this disposition is less evident as we approach the surface ; but between these lines the torn surface is very uneven, where it is formed by the contorted tubes. The cortical part has less of the intertubular matrix than is met with in the medullary cones. In the kidney there is a peculiarity of the highest interest in the relative situation212 PECULIARITIES OF GLANDS. of the vascular and mucous tissues, which seems to have reference to the peculiar function of the gland. There are two systems of capillary vessels, the former of which, or that in connection with the renal artery, perforates the mucous membrane at the extremity of each tube, and lies on the outer surface of the membrane, that is, bare and loose within the dilated extremities, which thus form the capsules of the Malpighian bodies.* The common submucous areolar membrane of the kidney, or that forming its capsule, is in most animals chiefly composed of ordinary areolar tissue with close meshes. But where a more resisting covering is required, as in the Lion, this areolar tissue is modified; the white fibrous element predominates so much as to give the capsule the glistening aspect of an aponeurosis. This is an admirable example of the transition from areolar tissue into white fibrous tissue, and helps to show the true nature and relations of the tunica albuginea of the testis. The testis, compared with the liver and kidney, present several modifications of the elementary tissues. The basement membrane is much stouter than in the latter gland, the tubes are larger, and their convolutions more loosely joined by any intervening substance. There is no appearance of an intertubular substance except towards the corpus Highmorianum, and the principal connecting medium between the tubes seems to be the vessels, which are less numerous than in the glands already mentioned, and form a looser network. The secreting tubules for these reasons admit of being very easily separated from one another, and unravelled to great lengths. The epithelial element of the testis constitutes a lining of considerable thickness, and is highly remarkable (see fig. 274). Though no seminal animalcules have been hitherto seen in the interior of the particles while still attached to the basement membrane of the tubes, yet from recent researches, and especially from those of Wagner, on the phases of their development, it is rendered highly probable that these singular moving bodies originate in the epithelial particles, as one of the results of their natural evolution. The loose aggregation of the tubules of the testis makes a firm external capsule necessary, and where, as in man, this gland is much exposed to injury by its situation, a further protection of this kind is made requisite. Hence the firm and unyielding character of the tunica albuginea in Man, the contrast of which with the thin covering of the large but well protected testicle of the Porpoise (for example), is well worthy of attention. In many large animals, the tunica albuginea, like the aponeurotic capsule of the Lion's kidney, is traversed more or less completely by large veins which it thus serves to support. The tunica albuginea consists almost solely of white fibrous tissue, and represents the submucous areolar tissue of the mucous system. The peculiarities of the salivary glands result from the predominance of their epithelial element over the others. The ducts terminate in vesicles, very similar in the figure they assume to those of the lungs, but nearly filled up with epithelial * 1 Phil. Trans.,' 1842, Part I.213 FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. particles. The basement membrane is very delicate. The capillary vessels encircle the vesicles, and are comparatively few in number, whence the pale colour of these glands. The areolar tissue forms capsules for those aggregations of vesicles, termed lobules, but does not penetrate between the individual vesicles. The mammary glands derive their extreme denseness and toughness, as well as their white colour, principally from the areolar tissue, in which the proper glandular membrane is enclosed. This tissue penetrates more abundantly between the minuter subdivisions of the gland than is observed in any other instance. It thus affords support, at the same time that it permits and facilitates movement of one part of the organ on another. It is also of such a nature as to readily allow of distension during lactation. General outline of the functions of the Mucous System. By its external anatomical position, this system is subservient to four great functions: the reception of impressions from without, the defence of the body from external injurious influences, the absorption of foreign particles, and the separation of such as are for any reason to be eliminated. It may almost be said to be the peculiar seat of these functions, which, however, are distributed in a very unequal manner over its different regions. Reception of external impressions. The skin and mucous membranes appear everywhere fitted by their nervous supply to receive impressions, which, being conveyed to the nervous centre, may there excite a reflexion of stimulus along motor nerves, without the intervention of consciousness. Common sensation, or that which in its most exalted form becomes touch, exists in all parts of the cutaneous surface, within the mouth, for some distance within the nostrils, and (with the exception of the pharynx and oesophagus) in general wherever the epithelium is of the true scaly variety. Where the sense of touch is most perfect, the simple membrane is observed to be involuted into the form of papilla? for the purpose of crowding a larger number of nervous loops into a given space. Taste and smell, which are nearly allied to touch, are the other special senses of which the mucous system is the seat. The sensations of hunger and thirst seem also referrible to this tissue.FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. 214 Defence from external influences. One chief division of the mucous system, viz., the skin, derives its main characteristics from its adaptation to this function, and those parts of the mucous membranes which are most exposed to the contact of irritating substances approach the most nearly to the skin in their structure. Their epithelium is scaly and in thick laminae, their submucous areolar tissue abundant, dense, and resisting. The nervous endowments of such surfaces, whether excito-motory or sensorial, mainly contribute to the protection of the animal. And, on the external tegument, the development of hairs, nails, &c, in their endless modifications of form, position, and structure, serve, with few exceptions, the same important purpose. In some parts of the mucous membrane peculiarly obnoxious to pressure, there are special glands for the lubrication of their free surface. Absorption of external Material. Every particle entering the body from without, is absorbed, in the first instance, through some portion or other of the mucous system. What is now known of the nature of this function in general, renders it certain that every part of the mucous system would form an absorbing surface, if favourably circumstanced for doing so. But as the extraneous material to be absorbed, must be brought into contact with the absorbing surface, often by some special and complicated means, this function is chiefly limited to certain distinct districts of the system. With few exceptions the glands are not suited either by their position or structure to receive the contact of extraneous substances, and even many portions of the mucous membranes are incapacitated in the same manner, as, for example, most of those lining the excretory passages of the glands. The secretions which, in a healthy state, are the only substances brought into contact with these surfaces, are, it is true, occasionally modified by a partial absorption of their constituents; but, generally speaking, this occurs to a very slight extent. Once formed, they usually traverse the channels, leading to the outlets of the body unchanged. The simplest condition under which this function presents itself appears to be that exhibited by the respiratory surface, which, whether it be arranged as lungs or gills, is concerned with aeriform particles, and absorbs and secretes through the self-same structure. The skin also is a very active absorbing surface, and appears, by the best observations, to be provided with a close net-work of lymphatics, which I have already stated to be most probably situated immediately under the basementFUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. 215 membrane. It does not appear that the existence of the lymphatic pores, described by MM. Breschet and Koussel de Vauzeme as opening on the free surface of the cuticle, has been confirmed by any subsequent anatomist. I have sought in vain for any such system of vessels in the cuticle, and I believe those distinguished observers must have been deceived by the irregular lines of union between the epidermic particles. It is true that the thickness and texture of the layers of epidermic scales are little calculated to allow of their being permeated by foreign material, whether fluid or gaseous; and, therefore, it is not likely that absorption is effected to any great extent either through their substance or interstices. It seems more consonant with facts to suppose, that this process, especially in respect to solid matters, is carried on by the simple membrane of the sudoriferous ducts, with which external particles would easily be brought into contact with their open extremities. But as these ducts traverse the thickness of the cuticle, and in that part of their course have not (in Man) any proper wall, but are bounded only by the edges of the scales between which they pass, it is very probable that the deeper and softer laminae of epidermic particles may not merely be moistened by the secretion of the ducts, but, under favourable circumstances, may borrow extraneous matters from them, and thus become a part of the absorbing medium. In reference to the question of absorption by the skin, it is interesting to notice the modification of this structure in those lower animals in which this function is manifested in much greater activity than in Man. A better example, cannot, perhaps, be selected for this purpose than that of the Frog. Its epidermis consists of a single layer of scales, and in consequence they do not overlap, but join edge to edge. These scales are not reduced to mere membrane, but always contain a considerable quantity of fluid in their interior. The sweat-pores open here and there in the interstices between three scales, and have true walls, formed out of a pair of modified epidermic particles, adapted to one another, and elongated into the subcutaneous texture. They thus bear a very close resemblance to the stomata of leaves. I lately discovered this singular arrangement in the cast-off cuticle of the animal. It seems undeniable, that, here, absorption is effected by the whole series of epidermic, scales as well as by the pores. But the most remarkable, and at the same time the most recondite, form under which this function is exhibited in the mucous system, is that met with in the alimentary tract. Here, indeed, water and aqueous solutions are imbibed, with great rapidity, into the vascular plexuses of the blood and lacteal systems, as the united testimony of many able experimenters abundantly shows. But from this merely physical process of imbibition is to be distinguished the more mysterious and elective function of chylous absorption, which is conducted by the lacteals alone, and is consequently limited to the regions supplied with that system of vessels. For an account of the present state of knowledge on the highly important subject of the intimate nature of this function, the reader is referred to ' Absorption and Lymphatic216 FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. System,' in which he will find the chief of the conflicting statements and opinions of physiologists detailed and discussed. It has already been explained in the present article, that the latest observations on the structure of the villi, and apparently the most exact ones, because conducted with the most improved lenses, and accordant with other collateral discoveries, make it highly probable that the opinion assigning open mouths to the lacteals is erroneous. In the description of those orifices, furnished by Treviranus, we may plainly discern his partial acquaintance with characters which we now know to be those of the prismatic epithelium investing the villi; and the less precise assertions of the same kind by several other excellent anatomists, we may now, perhaps, fairly consider to have been founded on deceptive appearances which, in their day, did not admit of accurate interpretation. If any such orifices exist, their minuteness must be extreme, and they must lie in the intervals between the prisms of epithelium. But even such attenuated pores, the best microscopes fail to detect, and at least it may with certainty be affirmed, that none large enough to admit a chyle- globule exist. The structure of the villi, no less than our knowledge of the absorbent function in general, seems to indicate that the chyle, when first taken up, is strictly a fluid, and only acquires its solid particles after it has entered the lacteal plexus. Of the Separation of Material front the Body. This function appears to be carried on in every part of the mucous system. One great division, that of the glands, is specially destined to it, as are likewise those portions of the compound mucous membranes, which have been already described as coming properly under the designation of glands. If, however, the essential nature of the function of secretion be adequately considered, it will scarcely be doubted that even the simplest parts of the mucous membranes, and the whole cutaneous surface (as distinguished from its sebaceous and perspiratory glandular onsets) share largely in this important office. It is true that in the skin this function holds a subordinate place to that of defence and protection, but its existence is only an example of what an attentive survey of nature everywhere discovers; the accomplishment of various ends by means of the same simple instruments. The notion, that a secreted product must be fluid, is one that has arisen out of a partial and imperfect insight into the nature of the secreting process. Those matters which are eliminated in the largest quantities and by the largest glands are for the most part so, in the shape under which they meet the eye, that is, after their separation from the organ in which they are secerned. But in the case of the lungs the secretion is gaseous as well as fluid, and in numerous instances, which have been recently brought to light, chiefly by the labours of Henle, it is found, when minutely scrutinized, to consist of organic forms entitled to be styled solid.217 FUNCTIONS OP THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. The problem which physiologists have now to resolve, is how far these organic forms, which are more or less altered epithelial particles, are necessarily concerned in the performance of the function, for epithelium is all but universal in the mucous system. It would be foreign to the province of this article to enter at length on the general question of secretion, and I shall confine myself to a few remarks tending to show in what direction recent researches point.* When the secretion of a sebaceous follicle of the skin is minutely examined, it is found to consist entirely of epithelial particles containing the sebaceous matter, and more or less broken and compressed. These are similar to the particles lining the follicle, and are manifestly the same structures, detached and matted together. The secretion found in the tubules of the testis is chiefly composed of epithelial particles resembling those attached to the basement membrane of the tubules. Some of these are very perfect, others have undergone changes. It has been already stated that the seminal animalcules are most probably a development of some of these particles, not altogether different in its nature from that of the cilia found upon them in other situations. The secretion of an ordinary mucous follicle is likewise made up of epithelial particles resembling those still attached to the membrane. The thick, semi-fluid mucus found in the stomach has been shown by WASMANNf to consist of rounded nucleated particles, which both in size and shape correspond with those of the stomach tubules. This mucus may be even seen projecting from the cells into which these tubules discharge themselves, and no doubt can exist that the proper secretion of this organ is chiefly composed of the bulky epithelium thrown off by the tubules; a view corroborated by the fact.| that this mucous membrane, consisting almost solely of epithelium, when mixed with certain acids naturally existing in the gastric juice, evinces the same powers of dissolving alimentary substances as that wonderful menstruum itself. The same thing may be observed in the intestinal canal, where the adhesive mucus is little else than the aggregated epithelial caps of the villi, together with that which has escaped from the vertical tubes of the membrane. These facts may be always verified in a healthy animal just killed, and may thus be shown to be independent of any morbid action. The legitimate conclusion from them seems to be this: that the peculiar principles of these respective secretions are lodged in the epithelial particles; having been deposited there from the blood, in the natural course of development. In other words, the process of secretion in these cases consists in an assimilation of the material from the blood by an organized tissue, which, when fully developed, i« loosened and shed. This view, so captivating by its simplicity, has certainly much satisfactory * Ptjkkinje, ' Isis,' 1838, No. 7. Schwann, ' Froriep'snotiz.,' Feb., 1838. Henle, ' Miiller's Archiv,' 1838, pp. 104-8, 1839, p. 45 ; also ' Miiller's Pbys.,' by Balt, 2nd edit., vol. I, pp. 503-4. f ' De digestione nonimlla,' Berol., 1839. J ' Miiller's Arcliiv.,' 1836, p. 90. Schwann, ' iiber das Wesen des Verdauungsprozesses.' 2 g2FUNCTIONS OP THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. 218 evidence in its favour, and it may, at least, be regarded as sufficiently established to constitute a strong presumption in favour of the general position, that all secretion is primarily assimilation. That the epithelial particles, when their growth is completed, should detach themselves in a more or less entire state, in all cases, from the membrane to which they have adhered, cannot be supposed essential to this general position, and even the total absence of any vestiges of these particles from any particular secretion would scarcely form a valid argument against it. For at present we know of no reason why the assimilated material should not be gradually given up by a slow disintegration or deliquescence of the particles, or even by a continual separation of it without a concomitant destruction of the particles themselves. But in numerous instances besides those that have been mentioned, there is more or less direct evidence of an actual shedding and continual renovation of the epithelium. The scaly variety of this tissue, whether on skin or mucous membranes, is a wide-spread example of this: the particles may be observed to augment in size by the intus-susception of new material from the blood, afterwards to undergo a slow loss of substance, and, finally, to lose their connection with the body altogether. They retain their position till nothing but the nucleus and cell- membrane remain, till they are reduced, as it were, to a mere skeleton. How the material thus separated from the body is to be distinguished from a secretion, it would not be easy to decide. In the saliva of the mouth, are present, not only detached scales, but globular nucleated particles, of a very delicate aspect and regular character, which seem manifestly to come from the salivary glands. They differ in some respects from the epithelium of these organs, but appear most probably to be particles of it altered by endosmose of the water of the secretion through the cell- membrane ; for the ultimate vesicles and ducts of these glands are not merely lined, but filled, with epithelial particles, which, being thrown off from the basement membrane, must in due time escape to make room for the advancing series: and yet none of them in an unaltered state are found in the saliva. I may in this place refer to an opinion recently entertained in Germany, that the secreting membrane of certain glands is arranged in the form of closed vesicles filled with nucleated particles, which, from time to time, are discharged, as the secretion, by the bursting of the cell in which they are contained. Henle* conceives that this arrangement exists in the mammary, salivary, and lachrymal glands, as well as in almost every mucous membrane, however apparently plain and simple. WASMANNf has described a similar structure in the middle part of the stomach of the pig. This view of the existence of closed vesicles is obviously at variance with the general view before given of the universal continuity of the simple membrane of the mucous system. I am familiar with many of the appearances on which it is founded, and without presuming * ' Muller's Archiv.,' 1839, p. xlv. f ' De digestione nonnulla,' Berol, 1839.FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. 219 to pronounce them very decidedly deceptive, I may state that hitherto my observations induce me to agree with Dr. Baly'* in his rejection of the interpretation put upon them by the German anatomists. A thin slice of a mass of the many-lobed terminal vesicles of one of these glands, especially if compressed, very readily assumes the aspect of a congeries of cells, each entirely surrounded by an envelope of basement membrane. But I have several times, in favourable sections, observed this membrane passing off into a neck, and becoming continuous with that of the duct. Such observations seem to me in a great measure conclusive on this subject; and I am strengthened in this view by the fact that the capsules of the Malpighian bodies of the kidney are now universally considered to be perfectly closed vesicles, whereas they are in reality the expanded wall of the duct, as I have lately shown by several kinds of proof.t But whatever may be the real fact in the matter under dispute, it is admitted by all that the epithelium is formed in enormous quantities, and is being continually thrown off; which is the circumstance chiefly intended to be insisted on at present. In the healthy bile also, in the urine, and in various other secretions, Dr. Henle has met with particles of epithelium detached from the excretory passages, and in different stages of decay. Turning to those two great emunctories, the liver and kidneys, in the secretions of which no trace of the epithelium of the secreting part of the organs can be detected, we might be disposed, on a slight consideration, to conclude the evidence they furnish to be unfavourable to the general position here advanced. We must, indeed, be content for the present to acknowledge that it is less plain and direct, and shrouded in our great ignorance concerning the play of chemical affinities in living bodies; but still it is too interesting and important to be passed over in silence. Though the epithelium of these organs be not detached entire, as in many other cases, there is much, in each instance, to explain the discrepancy consistently with the theory in question. I have described the lobules of the liver as consisting of a solid plexus of capillary bloodvessels, in the meshes of which is a congeries of epithelial particles. We possess no accurate account of the mode of termination of the biliary ducts ; but it seems clear, from the small meshes of the vascular plexus being completely filled by the epithelium, that no true ducts, i.e., tubes, penetrate the substance of the lobules ■ the tubular ducts probably commence on the surface of the lobules. The epithelium of the lobules is doubtless continuous with that of the ducts, but the cavity of the ducts and their basement membrane terminate at the surface of each lobule. Though the cavity of the ducts be not continued within the lobule, yet it is very possible that injection urged along the ducts might insinuate itself by the side of the epithelium into the interstices of the vascular plexus, and thus, like the epithelium itself, form a * Translation of' Miiller's Physiology,' p. 504. t ' Phil. Trans.,' 1842, Part I., p. 59.220 FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. solid plexus within the lobule. This appearance probably led Mr. Kiernan to describe the termination of the ducts as forming a plexus within the lobule, the lobular biliary plexus. And this description must be allowed to be essentially correct; for although the cavity of the duct cease at the surface, the epithelium of the lobule is, in respect of function, its real continuation. I have further observed, that although the epithelium of the lobule has, on the whole, a plexiform arrangement, yet its particles in some measure affect a radiating direction from the central axis towards the circumference, perhaps towards certain parts only; and when a lobule is broken up by violence, the resulting fragments of epithelium are apt to consist of a linear series of particles. Many of the particles, too, are smaller than the rest, and have all the appearance of having been recently formed and as yet incompletely developed. It is also remarkable that the particles should contain granules of oily matter in their interior; for although chemical analysis has detected differences between this substance and cholesterine,** yet as the chief peculiar principles of the bile are forms of hydro-carbon, the coincidence cannot be an - accidental one. It is not contended that the contents of these particles are the finished secretion, but rather that their chemical constitution undergoes some modifications during the disintegrating process. And it is worthy of notice that in many cases where the decarbonizing function of the lungs is slowly but greatly interfered with, as in phthisis pulmonalis, and where the liver is consequently called into increased activity as a compensating organ, these oily globules exist in such abundance and size as to gorge and swell the particles (and therefore the whole viscus) to nearly double their natural bulk.t But this is not all the evidence, that this epithelium is the source of the bile. I am informed by my friend, Dr. W. Budd, that Dr. Henle, in his recent edition of ' Soemmering,' of which I have not yet been able to obtain a copy, describes the epithelial particles as. appearing yellow or yellowish brown in direct light, and as probably containing bile. He also states that the presence of the fatty globules in the epithelium is inconstant, and corresponds with the varying fatty contents of the bile. He is unable at present to determine in what manner the contents of the particles find their way into the ducts. The foregoing facts, taken together, afford a very strong presumption that the epithelial particles of the lobules are the agent assimilating the secretion from the blood. It would be still more satisfactory if particles could be found under- going decay. Meanwhile it seems impossible to assign to them any other office, if it be granted that the sole function of the liver is to secrete bile. For in the case of other glands, the only other use that can with any degree of plausibility be attributed to the epithelium is that of its serving to defend the secreting membrane from the contact of the secretion, and to prevent the latter from re-entering the blood. And it cannot exist for that purpose in the liver, because it * Kuehn, ' Kastner's Arcliiv.,' xiii.'p. 337. \ Author in ' Lancet,' January, 1842.221 FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. is itself the only structure besides the bloodvessels, and does not constitute a lining membrane. The peculiarity in the minute structure of the kidneys, which bears on the present question, is of a kind entirely different from any presented by the liver, and yet tends to establish a similar conclusion. It consists of a special apparatus at the extremity of each secreting tube, apparently designed to furnish a now of water down the canal.# A large quantity of water is evidently required in this secretion as a menstruum for the salts and proximate principles it contains ; and there is no doubt from the analogy of other glands, that the walls of the tubes are the membrane secreting these substances. Now the epithelium constitutes at least -|^ths of their thickness, and is the only part of them with which the water can come into contact. It therefore seems highly probable that this fluid is provided in the manner described, in order to dissolve, out of the epithelial particles, the peculiar principles which they have previously assimilated from the blood. In support of this general position it may be observed further:—1. That the epithelium, which constitutes so large a portion of the true glands, is solid and bulky, usually characterized by its finely granular texture, and in this respect contrasts strongly with that lining the vascular system, which is of extreme delicacy and transparence. The exceptions to this remark confirm its importance. In the air-cells of the lungs, the secretions of which are gaseous and not solid, the epithelium is of great tenuity, and in the Malpighian capsules of the kidney, which appear to serve principally as receptacles for the aqueous fluid that escapes from the bare capillaries within them, this structure is either wanting or consists of perfectly transparent particles. In many intermediate varieties, too, there appears traceable a corre- spondence between the bulk of the nucleated particles and the activity of the secreting function; of which the scaly form in general may be mentioned as an instance. 2. That many peculiar substances are secreted into the interior of nucleated cells, although prevented, by the position of those cells, from escaping from the body. Such are various fats and fixed oils, colouring matters, &c. 3. That this function oi abstracting somewhat from the blood, and elaborating it, seems the most probable one that can be assigned to the thymus and thyroid bodies, the spleen, and supra-renal capsules, and specially to the nucleated particles forming so large a portion of these several structures. On the whole there seems much weight of evidence in favour of the proposition " that secretion is a function very nearly allied to ordinary growth and nutrition: that whereas these are a combination of two functions, assimilation of new particles and rejection of old, the old being reconveyed into the blood, secretion consists in a corresponding assimilation and rejection, but the old particles are at once thrown off from the system without re-entering the blood. According to this view, all effete material received into the blood, from the old substance of the various organs, must be reassimilated by an organized tissue, specially designed for the purpose, viz., * See page 77.FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. 222 the epithelium, before it can be eliminated : and all substances thrown off from the system, but designed for an ulterior purpose, must in like manner be assimilated in order to their separation." It places in a strong light a principle of great importance in physiology, the subordination of the bloodvessels and their contents to the tissues among which they are distributed. The function of secretion may therefore be considered to be universal over the mucous system, and its different activity in various situations to be dependent on, as it certainly is closely associated with, differences in the arrangement and structure of the epithelial element. The basement membrane, from being absent from the lobules of the liver, seems a tissue of inferior (perhaps of no) importance in respect of this function, and probably is chiefly subservient, wherever it exists, to the mechanical support of the epithelium. There are probably three ways in which the secretions are finally separated from the body : and these three ways appear to have a reference to the chemical qualities of the product, and to their effete or non-effete character. 1. The particles assimilated into the nucleated cell may be thrown off by virtue of minute chemical changes occurring in it, without the cell itself being altered in form. In this case the nucleated cells will be permanent, or only very slowly renewed, and the secretion will be formed, or at least perfected, by the passage of its elements through the cells. 2. The nucleated cells, as they arrive at their full size, may undergo a slow change in the arrangement of their elements, and gradually disappear by a kind of solution or deliquescence, thus forming the secretion. 3. The nucleated cells, when mature, may be cast off at once, and entire, with their contents. The two last modes are attended with a continual formation of new cells. It would appear that, in general, where the secretion is formed by the rejected chemical elements of the cells (1), or by the destructive solution of the cells (2), it is effete; but that, when formed chiefly by the separation of cells that are mature and contain much organic matter (3), it is destined for ulterior purposes in the ceconomy. Of the first the kidney seems to be an example, of the second the liver, of the third the lining membrane of the stomach. The varieties in the qualities of the products secerned by different portions of the mucous system are only referrible to varieties in the elective powers of the tracts which respectively furnish them, and admit of being most readily explained by the view of the nature of secretion already advanced. It is unnecessary, in this place, to enter on a particular description of the boundaries of these several tracts, and I shall only offer a few observations on the nature and extent of that secretion which has given its name to the structures here treated of. The term mucus, like so many others transmitted from an early period, was originally employed to denote an exaggerated and partial condition, was subsequently applied more loosely and widely in a generic sense, and now requires to be reduced to a more definite application in accordance with that necessity for precision of thought223 FUNCTIONS OP THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. and expression which characterizes modern science. The exposition contained in the article * Mucus' will render it superfluous for me to define its present acceptation. It is denied by Dr. Gkuby that the viscid form of mucus is a normal secretion from any membrane whatever, and he considers its existence as a certain mark of diseased action. This view, if less absolute, would be in a great measure correct, since there is no doubt that in a state of perfect health most mucous surfaces are wholly unprovided with any protection of this kind. If the nasal cavities, the trachea or bronchia, the intestinal or urinogenital tracts, be examined in a healthy animal killed for the purpose, we may search in vain for any slimy covering, such as they are commonly imagined to possess. But in a state of disease, each of these surfaces will secrete great quantities; and it is not a little remarkable, that, even when healthy, if moistened and allowed to undergo slight putrefaction, they will become coated with a viscid fluid, having the physical characters of mucus. Yet the slimy fluid of the mouth cannot with propriety be considered abnormal. The true saliva is not viscid, as it escapes from the ducts of the glands into the cavity of the mouth: it probably becomes so by dissolving the substance derived from the scales of epithelium lining the mouth, as they advance to the surface and flatten. The fluid of ranula is not merely the accumulation of a natural secretion, but seems gradually to acquire its great viscidity by receiving the debris of the epithelium lining the excreting channels, and by the partial reabsorption of its aqueous portion. In the intestinal canal, however, although there is no viscid mucus naturally present, yet there is a large amount of " inspissated mucus" being continually separated from the villi and follicles of Lieberkiihn. This mucus, as already mentioned, is nothing more than the debris of epithelial particles. But chemists have detected, in most of the secretions, a small proportion of a substance nearly allied to mucus, and probably a form of it. There is good reason to believe this to be the product of the membrane lining the excretory passages, and to represent the old epithelium of that membrane. Where the secretion of the gland is fluid and in considerable quantity, it seems to be sufficient to convey away this debris from the surface which it traverses on its way out of the system, as in the salivary and allied glands, the liver, kidney, &c. But where, from the absence of this means of carrying off the debris of the epithelium, it might be supposed to be liable to accumulate and clog the surface, cilia are developed; of which the best example is furnished by the respiratory tract, the nasal cavities, and the tympana. That this is the great office of these wonderful organs upon these extensive surfaces appears to be proved by the fact that the currents they produce are uniformly towards an outlet. Henle has observed this in several parts, and I have ascertained it by experiment in the case of the tracheal and bronchial membrane. In this tract no secretion is visible with the naked eye, but with the aid of the microscope I have found, in perfectly recent animals, minute globules of extreme tenuity and of various sizes, which had all the appearance of mucus oozing from the 2 H224 FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. interstices of the epithelial particles. It is impossible but that the cilia should move these globules along the surface, and discharge them into the pharynx; and it hardly admits of doubt that mucus, morbidly existing on the bronchial membrane, is gradually lifted up by these untiring agents to that region where it excites coughing, and is forcibly expelled by the rush of air. The patient is often conscious of its slow motion upwards, when it is in the form of a pellet and proceeds from an isolated spot. This is remarkably the case too in hsemoptysis, and also in that rare disease the bronchial polypus, where branched tubes of lymph are brought up in this manner. This view of the use of cilia in the mucous system of the higher animals appears to me to merit much attention. I had intended to have considered it under a separate head, but it has been introduced here both in corroboration of the general position as to the nature of secretion, and in illustration of the nature and extent of the special secretion from the ordinary mucous membranes. On the whole I think it may be concluded : 1. That every part of the mucous system, where epithelium exists, secretes. 2. That the secretion differs, in different regions, according to the vital properties of their epithelia; and that these vital properties are usually attended with appreciable varieties of structure. That corresponding varieties of chemical con- stitution co-exist with these is highly probable, though only as yet proved in a few cases. 3. That mucus is the least peculiar of the secretions, yet by no means universal from the mucous membranes, but confined to tracts of comparatively limited superficial extent, chiefly the excretory channels of the glands. In the preceding summary account of the structure, relations, and offices of the mucous system, I have not been able (without interruption to the course of the description) to refer sufficiently to the labours of those anatomists to whom we owe almost all our knowledge of the subject. This deficiency, of which I am very sensible, I shall endeavour in some degree to supply by a brief review of the researches which have led to the more modern and general views on the subject. Passing over the imperfect descriptions of the ancients, we find that when the microscope first became an instrument of anatomical research, the scaly character of the cuticle was recognised by Malpighi and Leeuwenhoeck ; and that the former of these great anatomists had a wonderfully clear insight, considering the period at which he lived, into the close relation that subsists between the glands, mucous membranes, and skin. The labours of the anatomists of the next age were spent with great success upon matters ot detail, particularly on the distribution of the bloodvessels, which Euysch and Lieberkuhn particularly illustrated; and, by the general advance of knowledge, the way was being gradually prepared towards that more philosophical arrange- ment of the tissues of the body, in conformity with their intimate texture and connexions, of which the first example is to be found in the work ofCONCLUSION. 225 Bonn,* already alluded to. He here traces, with great accuracy, the continuity of the skin and mucous membranes at the different orifices of the body, and he clearly recognises their close structural relation, considering the mucous membranes to be productions of the skin. To our countryman, Dr. Carmichael Smith,! we are indebted for the first application of this arrangement to the purposes of pathological classifica- tion, and Pinel soon after followed in the same track.J But a new era dates from the remarkable works of Bichat,§ in which he delineated the structure, vital and other properties, and the relations of the different tissues of the body, and arranged them on a basis, which, though faulty in some of its details, has received no essential modification in its principle since his time, and entitles him to the praise of rare genius and sagacity. He seems to have clearly perceived the true connexion that exists between the skin, mucous membranes, and glands, although he failed to carry out his views into the subdivisions of his system, where he was still fettered by the crude notions of his predecessors. One of the most remarkable features in his work, bearing on the present subject, is the analogy he draws between the epidermis of the skin and the mucus of mucous membranes, an analogy which he discovered with the eye of the mind, which has been since often rejected, but which can now be shown to be real by the eye of sense. Most writers of eminence since the time of Bichat have adopted the principal part of his views, and some have advanced further towards a full recognition of the homology of the skin, mucous membranes, and glands, among whom must be men- tioned, in particular, J. Muller, whose classical work on the glands, || published in 1830, placed him at once in the foremost rank among the anatomists of our own day. Subsequently to that date, the improvements in the construction of the micro- scope and the consequent employment of greater magnifying powers, have added an extraordinary stimulus to anatomical and physiological studies, and directed a host of inquirers into an almost unexplored field, from which the harvests already reaped give the most favourable earnest of future and rapid additions to the stores of know- ledge. To the Germans is unequivocally due the merit of having far outstripped all other nations in the honourable path thus opened, and in no collateral path of i nquiry which has been pursued to the same extent, has so much new, interesting, and important infoimation of an accurate and satisfactory character, been obtained, as in that which it has been my duty to treat of in the present article. The names of Purkinje, Valintin, Henle, and Schwann deserve primary honour in this place, and to these may be added those of Ehrenberg, Treviranus, E. Wagner, Boehm, * ' De contiiraatiotiibus Menibranarum,' Roterod., 1769. f 'Medical Communications,' Vol. ii., London, 1790. X 'Nosographie Pliilosophique,' Paris, 1798. § ' Traite des Membranes,' 1800. ' Anatomie Generate,' 1801. || ' De Glandularum secementium structura penitiori,' Lipsife, 1830. 2 h 2BIBLIOGRAPHY. 226 Wasmann, Gruby, and Gerber. Among the French anatomists, MM. Turpin, Mandl, and Donne have contributed much ; and our own countrymen have not been behind. Dr. Sharpey, Dr. Sprott Boyd, Dr. Todd, Mr. Nasmyth, Dr. Barry, and Mr. Toynbee are all distinguished in this field of research."" In the present article I have endeavoured to combine with all the authentic information I could obtain from these sources, the results to which I have been brought by a two years' study of the anatomical characters of the whole mucous system. So rapid, however, are the daily advances of knowledge, that it is possible much has been omitted which is already in some shape before the public, and on the other hand, that a few years may greatly modify the general views that are here set forth. As the anatomical details, however, have been all substantiated by my own observations, except where otherwise stated, I am enabled to speak with more con- fidence of their correctness. BIBLIOGRAPHY. Marcellus Malpighuts ' De viscerum structura : Op. omuia,' Loud., 1687. Peyer,' ' De gland, intest.,'Amstel., 1681. J. C. Brunner, ' De glandulis duodeni,' Francofurt, 1715. Lieberkuhn, ' De fabrica et act. vill. intest. hom.,' Lugd. Bat. 1744, 4to. Haller, ' Elementa Physiol.,' lib. xi. Bonn, ' Specimen Anatomico-Medicum, &c, extat in Sandifort' Thesauro, vol. ii., Roterodami, 1769, xii., p. 265. Carmichael Smith, in ' Transactions of a Soc. for Promoting Med. Know.,' vol. ii., Lond., 1790. Soemmering, 'Bane des Menschlichen korpers,'Frankfurt-a-M., 1791. R. A. Hedwig, ' Disquis. Ampull. Lieberkiihnii physico-microsc.,' Lipsias, 1797, 4to. Pinel, ' Nosographie philoso- phique,' Paris, 1798. X. Bichat, ' Traite des Membranes,' Paris, 1800; 'Anatomie generale,' 1801. K. A. Rudolphi, ' Progr. de humani corporis partibus simil,' 4to, Gryph., 1809. J. F. Meckel, ' Hand- bucb der Menschlichen Anatomie,' Bd. 1, Halle, 1815. C. Mater, ' Uber Histologic u. eine nene Eintheilung der Gewebe des Menschlichen Korpers,' 8vo, Bonn, 1818. H. Buerger, ' Examen. Microsc. vill. intest.,' Halas, 1819. F. A. Beclard, ' Elemens d'anatomie generale,' 8vo, Paris, 1825. Billard, ' De la membrane muqueuse gastro-intestinale,' &c, 8vo, Paris, 1825. Craigie, ' Elements of General and Pathological Anatomy,' Edinb., 1828. Doellinger, ' De vasis sangniferis quae villis intestinornm, &c. insunt,' Monachii, 1828. E. H. Weber, ' Hildebrandt's Anatomie,' 1830. J. Muller, ' De glandul. secernentium structura penitiori,' Lipsiaa, 1830; and, in English, Mr. Solly's abridged translation. G. Breschet, 'Ann. des Sciences Nat.,' 1834. Purkinje and Valentin, ' Commentatio physiologica de phenom. motus vibratorii continui,' &c, 4to, Wratislav., 1835; ' Isis,' 1838, No. 7. Boehm, 'De Gland, intest. struct, penitiori,' Berol, 1835. Gurlt, ' Miiller's Archiv.,' 1835, p. 399; 1836, p. 263. Sprott Boyd, ' Inaugural Essay on the Structure of the Mucous Membrane of the Stomach,' Edinb., 1836. Krause, 'Miiller's Archiv.,' 1837, p. 8. Henle, ' Symbolse ad anatomiam villorum intest. imprimis eorum epithelii et vasorum lacteorum,' Berol., 1837; ' Hufeland's Journal,' 1838; 'Miiller's Archiv.,'1838, * To these must now be added Mr. Goodsir, who, in a paper (of which an abstract has been just published) read at the Royal Society of Edinburgh on the 30th March, supports the view of secretion here given, with several new proofs. See ' Lond. and Edin. Monthly Journal of Med. Science,' May, 1842.BIBLIOGRAPHY. 227 p. 103; ibid., 1839, Heft, iii., p. xxxi., to Heft, iv., p. xlv. Valentin, ' Repertor,' 1838, p. 310. Wasmann, ' De digestione nonnulla,' Dissert. Inaug. Berol., 1839, and ' Froriep's Notizen,' April, 1839. 'Midler's Physiology,' by Balt, London, 1837-41, vol. i., 2nd edit., 1839 pp. 477-503, et seq. Schwann, ' Fi'oriep's Notiz.,' Feb., 1838 ; ' Mikrosk. Untersuchung,' Berol., 1839. R. B. Todd, " Lectures on the Mucous Membrane of the Stomach and Intestinal Canal," 'Med. Gaz.,' 1839 and 1812. Gerber, 'General Anatomy by Gulliver,' Lond., 1841. A. Nasmyth, 'Three Memoirs on the Teeth and Epithelium,' Lond., 1841. Totnbee, " On non-Vascular Animal Tissues," ' Phil. Trans.,' 1841, part ii. Martin Barry, " On the Corpuscles of the Blood," ' Phil. Trans.,' part ii., 1840, pai'ts i. and ii., 1841. Mandl, ' Anatomie microscopique,' Paris, 1839-41. Gruby, ' Observ. microscopicse,' Viennse, 1841.^229 MUSCLE. ' Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology,' Vol. 111. (SrN. MGs, Muscidus, muscular or sarcous tissue; vulgo, flesh, meat.) This term is applied to certain fibrinous contractile organs, either elongated and fixed at their two extremities, or hollow and enclosing a cavity, which in all the higher animals are the seat of the power by which locomotion, circulation, the prehension and passage of food, the expulsion of many of the excretions and of the young, as well as other diversified functions, are performed. It is also used to denote the peculiar contractile material or tissue, constituting the principal and essential portion of such organs. This tissue is always arranged in the form of fibres, which in many minute animals occur singly, each serving the purpose of a perfect muscle. But they are usually aggregated in very great numbers, surrounded with a network of capillary vessels, and connected to one another by areolar tissue. The nervous tissue is univer- sally associated with the muscular, however small may be the quantity of the latter; it is through this that the stimulus to contract is ordinarily transmitted, and, when the mass is great, made to affect simultaneously many contiguous fibres. A muscle is the organ resulting from the union of these several parts. Muscles are styled voluntary or involuntary, according as they are, or are not, subject to the influence of volition, and they have been usually so classified. But, however convenient these terms may be in the ordinary language of physiology, they cannot be applied, in a strict sense, to the purposes of classification without obvious objections. Many muscles, especially those under the immediate dominance of reflex nervous action (as the respiratory and sphincter muscles), partake of both characters, since volition can interfere only temporarily with their contraction; and ail muscles, even the most confessedly voluntary, are subject to emotional and instinctive influences, in which the will has no share. The attempt to introduce an intermediate or mixed class, which has been generally sanctioned, while it is an acknowledgment of theSTRIPED MUSCLE. 230 imperfection of the arrangement, does not appear to be sufficiently warranted, either on anatomical or physiological grounds. If subjection or non-subjection to the influence of the will be made the basis of classification, all muscles should be accounted voluntary on which this can exercise a direct influence either in causing or controlling contraction, even though such influence be but momentary, and capable of being exerted only while the stimulus excitive of involuntary action is in abeyance. The voluntary muscles are generally solid organs, while the involuntary are hollow ; and, on recurring to the minute structure of their respective elementary libres, we detect very striking differences between them, those of the former being striped crosswise with very delicate and close parallel lines, which, with some exceptions, are altogether absent from the latter. But these exceptions are of so important a kind as to demonstrate beyond doubt that there is no necessary connexion between the minute conformation of the fibres and their relation to the influence of the will. The muscular coat of the oesophagus often displays the striped structure as far down as the stomach, though the will has no power whatever over its movements ; and the heart itself is composed of striped fibres. As the structural differences between these two kinds of fibre are constant, well-marked, and therefore easily ascertained, and as the}' seem, moreover, to be related to varieties in the activity and mode of exercise of their contractile power, they will be employed as the ground of division in the present article. I shall first describe the minute anatomy of these two kinds of elementary fibre, and the steps of their development; and, secondly, I shall advert to their mode of aggregation and to the arrangement of the tissues found in connection with them. a. Of the Striped Elementary Fibres. These have received the name of Primitive Fasciculi on the erroneous supposition of their being bundles of finer filaments. They may be separated from the tissues associated with them in the compound organ by a variety of means, but as they always constitute the principal mass of the organ, they may be examined without any attempt at such separation. It' was a favourite plan with the older anatomists to obtain the fibres apart by submitting them to a long boiling, which destroys the texture of the vessels and filamentary tissue, but at the same time considerably modifies the size, shape, and structure of the fibres. It is in general only requisite to take a small portion of a muscle, as fresh as possible (but after its contractility has departed), and to tear it, under water, into fine shreds, with needles. By these means the elementary fibres will be separated from one another, and being in parts irregularly broken, and torn, can be submitted to inspection under a high power of the microscope, in such a condition as to exhibit most of the important points in their structure. Many sedulousSTRIPED MUSCLE. 231 examinations of specimens from various sources are requisite for the acquirement of a correct idea of their organization and properties, but that this simple method of procedure is the one most likely to lead to a true insight and conclusion regarding the anatomy, not only of this but of all elementary structures, becomes every day more evident. Various subsidiary means may doubtless be employed with advantage, such as injections and physical and chemical agencies ; but the method which of all others is the least liable to admit of erroneous interpretations by the admixture of artificial elements in which the mind of the inquirer has had a share, is that of employing a power capable of reaching the utmost limits of organization, on examples the most nearly approaching to their natural state during life. There is perhaps no one line of, inquiry in the whole range of minute anatomy so beset with difficulties and sources of error, and therefore so much demanding a cautious study and sagacious discrimination between conflicting appearances, as this of the structure of the striped fibre. The following description is substantially the same as that published by me in the 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1840, and which all my subsequent observations have tended to confirm. To that paper I would venture to refer those who may desire to enter at greater length upon the grounds of the view here summarily given. L. Length.—This varies exceedingly in different muscles. The sartorius, the longest in the body, often surpasses two feet in length, and the individual fibres are as long, extending in parallel bundles from end to end. In many others they do not exceed a quarter of an inch; thus their greatest variety is presented in their length. 2. Thickness.—This should be examined in the uncontracted state of the fibre, which for this purpose should be removed from the body after all contractility has departed. I have elsewhere* given a table of numerous comparative measurements in various animals, and subjoin the following abstract:— Diameter of the Elementary Fibres of Striped Muscle in fractions of an English Inch. TT „ f average of males Human from ^ to < ,, females Other Mammalia .. ,, ttVo >? t^t Birrk i -J— ,, 1500 " 350 Reptiles ,, totto » tjto Fish „ „ V IllSeCts ••••• ~T!\~Z 11 o^nTT 4 5 4 _i_ 5 6 1 __1_ 8 0 7 1 4 8 4 1_ 2 2 2 1 4 19 I believe that the average diameter of the fibres in the human female is upwards of a fourth less than in the male, and that the average of both together is greater than that of other Mammalia; but a more extensive examination is requisite to * See page 7.FIGURE AND COLOUR OF MUSCLE. 232 establish this. Fish have fibres nearly four times thicker than those of Birds, which have the smallest of all animals. Next to Fish come Insects, then Eeptiles, then Mammalia. In each of these different classes, however, an extensive range of bulk is observable, not only in the different genera, but in the same animal and the same muscle, some fibres being occasionally three, four, or more times the width of others. In general the fibres of the heart are smaller than those of other striped muscles. The varieties in the average bulk in different classes have a close connection with differences of nutrition and of their irritability, which will be reverted to. 3. Figure.—This is subject to some variety, depending on their number and manner of package. Sometimes, as in some parts of Insects, they are flattened; but when they are isolated, or loosely aggregated, they are more or less cylindrical. In all the cases, however, where many fibres are arranged side by side, as in the Vertebrata, the larger Insects, and Crustacea, they are irregularly polygonal, the contiguous sides being flattened, evidently from the effect of package. Yet some interspaces are always left for the passage of bloodvessels, nerves, and areolar tissue. among and between them. Their form may be most readily displayed by a transverse section of a muscle that has been dried en masse, as long ago shown by Leeuwenhoeck. 4. Colour.—The colour of muscle depends partly on the colour of its elementary fibres, partly on the blood contained in its vessels, and there is strong reason to believe that the colouring matter of both is the same, or nearly so. That the fibres have always a colour of their own is at once evident on inspection under the microscope. It is generally more or less of a reddish-brown, but varies much in different animals and in different muscles, and even in the same muscle according to its state of development and activity. In Eeptiles and Fish generally, and in Crustacea, the flesh is white, sometimes pinkish, but in some fishes, as the Gurnard, the gill-muscles are red. These varieties of colour are attended with none ot structure. In Birds the colour varies much, being often white and deep red in the a, a, Section of elementary fibres, showing their angular form and various size, h, b, Sections of the injected capillaries, showing the position they occupy These figures show the greater vascularity of the muscle with the narrower elementary fibres. FIG. 286.—TRANSVERSE SECTIONS OF STRIPED MUSCLE THAT HAS BEEN INJECTED AND DRIED. MAGNIFIED 70 DIAMETERS. (See fig. 286.)INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. 233 same animal, but generally the pectoral muscles are very dark. The most deeply coloured muscle .1 have seen was the great pectoral muscle of the Teal (Querquedula crecca), killed after migration. In Mammalia the colour is ordinarily red, being deeper in the Carnivora than in the vegetable feeders. Among the domestic animals many varieties exist, which need not be specially enumerated. A considerable part of the colouring matter is extracted by repeated washing of a muscle, which then becomes pale, but not quite colourless; some part of the loss of colour here sustained is doubtless owing to the solution of the heematosine of the blood contained in it. A muscle, if hypertrophied, grows redder, and vice versa; and probably the practice of bleeding calves some days before they are killed, makes their flesh more pale and tender, by causing the absorption of a portion of the proper colouring matter of the fibres, as well as by abstracting the blood circulating among them. 5. Internal Structure.—Though the elementary fibres of all animals are visible to the naked eye, and in some animals, as the Skate (Raia batis), are often as thick as a small pin, nothing of their internal organization can be distinguished without the aid of a powerful lens. There is indeed, in certain lights, a splendid pearly iridescence, resulting from the arrangement of their structure, and quite characteristic among the soft tissues; but this is not explained till a high power of the microscope is brought to bear upon the fibres. They are then seen, when viewed on the side, to be marked by innumerable alternate dark and light lines, whose delicacy and regularity nothing can surpass, and which take a parallel direction across them; and if the focus be altered so as to penetrate the fibre, they are found to be present within it just as on its surface, thus differing from those on the tracheae of insects, which exist only at the surface. At the extreme border of the fibre the light lines are sometimes seen to project a trifling degree more than the dark ones, thus giving a slight scallop, or regular indentation, to the edge. It often happens, in tearing the fibres roughly with needles before examination, that they crack across, or give way entirely, along one or several of these dark lines, the line of fracture or cleavage running more or less completely through the fibre in a plane at right angles with its axis; and occasionally two or more of such complete cleavages will occur close together, the result of which is the separation of so many plates or discs (fig. 287, b), of which the light lines at the surface are the edges, and the corresponding light lines seen within are what may be termed the focal sections. Thus it is evident that there is a tendency in the mass of the fibre to separate, when torn or pulled after death, along the transverse planes, of which the dark transverse stripes are the edges. When such a separation takes place, a series of discs result, but to say that the fibre is a mere pile of discs is incorrect, for the discs are only formed by its disintegration. Nevertheless they are marked out, and their number and form are imprinted, in the very structure of the fibre, in its perfect state. {See figs. 287 and 288.) But again, it always happens that longitudinal lines, more or less continuous and parallel, according to the integrity of the fibre and the strength and distinctness of the 2 i 2234 INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. transverse lines, are also to be discerned; and like the transverse ones, not on the surface only, but throughout the whole of its interior. And it is found that there is a remarkable proneness in the fibre to split in the direction indicated by these lines also; by which splitting it is resolved into a great number of fibrillce. These fibrillse, like the discs, do not exist as such in the fibre, and to obtain them its structure must be necessarily broken up to a certain extent, for the union which naturally subsists between these parts must be destroyed. It is therefore most correct to say that there is an indication in the entire state of the fibre of a longitudinal arrangement of a, Longitudinal cleavage. At a tlie longitudinal and trans- verse lines are both seen; some longitudinal lines are darker and wider than the rest, and are not continuous from end to end. b, Primitive fibrillar separated from one another by violence at the broken end of the fibre, and marked by transverse lines equal in width to those at a. c, Represents two appearances commonly pre- sented by the separated single fibrillge. On the upper one the borders and transverse lines are all perfectly recti- linear, and the included spaces perfectly rectangular ; in the lower the borders are scalloped, the spaces bead-like ; when most distinct and definite, the fibrilla presents the former of these appearances. B, Transverse cleavage; the longitudinal lines are scarcely visible, a, Incomplete fracture, following the opposite surfaces of a disc, which stretches across the interval and retains the two fragments in connection the edge and surface of this disc are seen to be minutely granular, the granules corresponding in size to the thick- ness of the disc and to the distance beween the faint longitudinal lines, b, Another disc nearly detached. FIG. 287.—FRAGMENTS OF STRIPED ELEMENTARY FIBRES SHOWING A CLEAVAGE IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. its parts, occasioning a cleavage in that direction on the application of violence. (See fig. 287.) Sometimes the fibre will split into discs only, more often into fibrillse only, but there are always present in it the transverse and the longitudinal lines which mark the two cleavages. It is the most common to find a crack or fracture taking both directions irregularly, running partly in the transverse dark lines, partly in the longitudinal dark lines, sometimes being crosswise on the exterior, more or less lengthwise within. These cracks are often short, even, well defined; at other times the parts near them are much stretched, or quite disorganized, differences depending on the brittleness or toughness of the particular fibre, which qualities vary very much in different specimens, according to the state of nutrition, period of examination, and other circumstances.235 INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. Hence it is clear that the discs and jibrillce consist of the same parts, and merely result from the different direction in which the mass breaks up. To detach a fibrilla entire is to remove a particle from every disc, and to take away a disc is to abstract a particle of every fibrilla. Thus, every disc consists of a particle of every fibrilla, and every fibrilla of a particle of every disc. Therefore every fibrilla of the same fibre has the same number of particles, and every disc in like manner is composed of the same number of particles. If, now, isolated discs and nbrillee be examined under a high magnifying power, they will be found to bear out, in the fullest manner, the description that has been given. The discs are marked on the edge by the fragments of the longitudinal lines, and if regarded on their fiat surface, present a finely granular appearance, the granules being equal in diameter with the fibrillae. (See fig. 288.) In fact, the dark lines between the granules are the fragments of the longitudinal lines of the interior of the fibre. Again, the fibrilhe, whether taken from the surface or from the interior, are always found to be marked at intervals by transverse dark lines, which are nothing more than the fragments of the transverse lines seen on and in the fibre. They uniformly correspond with them in distance and force. (See fig. 287, c.) Thus, PIG. 288.—SURFACE OF A DISC SEPARATED FROM AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE OF A LIZARD WHICH HAD LAIN LONG IN SPIRIT. MAGNIFIED 500 DIAMETERS. It displays the finely granular structure spoken of in the text. The granules are intended to be represented equal in size. whether the fibre cleave crosswise or lengthwise, the resulting fragments bear in their structure their respective portions of the lines, taking an opposite course, and evincing a co-existent arrangement in the opposite direction ; and when a detached disc or fibrilla is itself broken, the fracture follows the lines thus imprinted in its structure. It remains to inquire, what is the nature and meaning of the dark lines so often mentioned ? They can be best examined in the separated discs or fibriUse; and they appear to be undoubtedly the results of an unequal refraction of the light transmitted through the object. The light spaces intercepted between them, and which by their union constitute the discs and fibrilke, have the aspect of small lenses or particles of higher refractive power than the connecting material, which consequently is in darkness when the inclosed spaces are in focus. By placing the object out of focus, however, the light and dark parts are reversed, which is precisely what occurs with true lenses. I have had a series of beaded rods of glass constructed, which have exactly the same appearance as the fibrillas ; and when two of these are regarded between the observer and the window, one being in front of the other, and their beads corresponding, the dark circumferences, visible round the beads of each rod when seen separately, are236 INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. found to be converted into transverse bars, crossing the rods at right angles in the interval of the beads; or, in other words, forming the elements of the transverse stripes. My friend, Dr. Gruby, of Vienna, informed me that he had had spiral rods of glass constructed, which, when placed in front of one another, have the same appearance as that often met with in the fibres, and he conceives the nbrilhe to be, consequently, spiral threads : an opinion advanced by Muys, to explain the phenomenon of contrac- tion, but unnecessary for that purpose, and which is quite at variance with all I have observed on the subject. Such spiral rods, however apposed, can never present lines absolutely transverse, such as always exist on the unmutilated fibre, and generally on the detached fibrillce; and the minute zigzags the stripes so often form, and which might, if constant, be possibly explained by the notion of spiral rods, are the mere result of a stretching and disturbance of the direction of the axes of the particles composing the discs and fibrillge. But the cleavage of the fibre into discs is especially opposed to the idea of a spiral form of each fibrilla. I think it is clear that the dark lines in both directions are not occasioned by a difference of colour, but solely by a variety in refraction; but on what this difference in refraction depends it is more difficult to explain. Is the connecting material of a different refractive power, or of the same nature as the particles it unites ? If of the same nature, it must be of smaller dimensions, and minute interspaces must be left; but of the existence of such interspaces there is no conclusive evidence. It seems more probable that the connecting material is less dense, and fills up every interval; but I do not pretend to determine what may be its nature, or whether it differs chemically from the parts it serves to join. It is remarkable that the direction ot the cleavage should vary so much in different specimens, without it being possible to say on what the variety depends: and the question has still to be determined, whether the transverse and longitudinal modes of union between the particles are the same. It is most likely that they are, and the differences in the regularity and breadth of the transverse and longitudinal lines are easily explained on that supposition. The transverse dark intervals between the particles, being all ranged on the same plane, the edge of which is directed to the observer, when he looks on the side of a fibre, appear as a sharp line, while the longitudinal dark intervals not being on a plane, are seen irregularly one in front of the other, as a little consideration will show. Hence the latter seldom seem so definite or regular as the former. Nevertheless their union, seen on the surface of a detached disc, often presents much regularity, and forms curved or straight lines, such as result when a number of balls of equal size are huddled together on a level. It may be concluded from what has now been advanced, that the discs and fibrillse (or in other words, the general mass of the fibre) are made up of a number of particles, which I have termed primitive particles or sarcous elements, and which would237 INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. be obtained in a detached form by a general separation occurring along the transverse and longitudinal lines visible in the fibre. The existence of these particles, as well as their form and size, is indicated in the structure of the fibre, while yet entire; but they are united together, and have no independent existence, each being by its very nature a part of the mass, which is rendered incomplete by the removal of a single element. It results also from this description that these particles have no definite outline on all their aspects, being united together; and that they only obtain such an outline on being severed; on which account it is perhaps impossible to say whether, in the perfect fibre, they be rounded, square, or polygonal. An example of the strong lateral union of these particles to one another was presented by the specimen from which the following sketch was taken. It consisted of two or three elementary fibres from the leg of a newly-born rabbit, which had been kept for some months in weak spirit. They were lying in a curved form on the field of the microscope, and presented on the convex edge transverse series of the particles, which, having lost their longitudinal while they retained their lateral union, stood out in relief, as represented in fig. 289, a, a, a. In the intervals between the projecting particles others have become detached. fig. 289. It sometimes happens that a linear series of them (a fibrilla) is separated, which has the appearance of a necklace of beads, with constricted intervals, while at other times the intervals, though dark, are of equal width with the light or highly refracting particles. Again, it is possible, by steeping in acid a transverse section of a dried muscle, to separate the particles considerably from one another, and to see that they are granules acting as lenses, being much more refractive than the material connecting them. Such transverse sections are an artificial division into discs, and the intervals between the particles widen out most in specimens taken from birds. {See fig. 290.) It is in these sarcous elements that the contractile power resides, and, as they are apt to retain after death the varying effects of the contraction they have undergone during the rigor mortis, it is not easy to give an exact measurement of their size or shape. An average drawn from very numerous observations shows, however, that they are very nearly alike in these respects in all animals and at all periods of life. TheirINTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. 238 diameter in the longitudinal direction of the fibre, as indicated by the distance between the transverse lines, is thus shown to be:'* English Inch. No. of Observations. In the Human Subject Wb~5 • • • 27 „ Mammalia generally ...., Toioo 15 „ Birds xoioo 7 „ Reptiles , nsoo 7 „ Fishy... ittoo 20 Insects ■95V0 >... 8 Their diameter in the opposite direction or that marked by the distance between the longitudinal lines is less, often by a half, but liable to variety from the cause already specified. In a paper, entitled ' On Fibre,' read before the Eoyal Society, on the 16th December and the 6th January last,t Dr. Barky describes the fibrilla to be a fiat filament rounded at the edges, and deeply grooved along the middle line on both Treated with weak citric acid, showing the round refracting particles separated from one another. The cut edge of the tubular sheath of each fibre is also seen. PIG. 290.—TRANSVERSE SECTION OP THREE ELEMENTARY FIBRES OF THE DRIED PECTORAL MUSCLE OP THE TEAL (QUERQUEDULA CRECCA). its surfaces. He states that this fiat filament consists of two spiral threads placed side by side, with their coils interlacing': that it " is so situated in the fasciculus (elementary fibre) of voluntary muscle, as to present its edge to the observer;" and that the curves of the spiral thread, then seen, seem to have been the appearance that "suggested the idea of longitudinal bead-like enlargements producing the striae." In Dr. Barry's opinion "the dark longitudinal striae are spaces (probably occupied by a lubricating fluid) between the edges of flat filaments, and the dark transverse striae, rows of spaces between the curves of the spiral threads," of which each flat filament consists. "In a postscript, the author observes, that there are states of voluntary muscle in which the" (doubly-spiral, flat) "longitudinal filaments have no concern in the production of the transverse striae, these striae being occasioned by the windings of spirals, within which very minute bundles of longitudinal" (doubly-spiral, flat) " filaments are contained and have their origin." This description, so entirely opposed to the more simple view above given (and * Auct., loc. cit., p. 474. t ' Proceedings of the Royal Society,' No. 51.239 INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. which was already in type when the paper ' On Fibre' was read) demands a brief notice. The paper, of which it forms part, might perhaps have been more explicitly entitled, "On the double spiral structure of the organic world;" for, in it, the doubly-spiral flat filament, giving the appearance of transverse strise to voluntary muscle, is discovered to exist in the interior of the blood-corpuscles of all animals, and " apparently in every tissue in the body. The author enumerates a great variety of organs in which he has observed the same kind of filaments." "And if the author's view of identity in structure between the larger and the smaller filaments be correct, it follows that spirals are much more general in plants themselves than has been hitherto supposed ; spirals would thus appear, in fact, to be as universal as a fibrous structure." " Valentin had previously stated, that in plants all secondary deposits take place in spiral lines. In the internal structure of animals, spirals have heretofore seemed to be wanting, or very nearly so. Should the facts recorded in this memoir, however, be established by the researches of other investigators, the author thinks the question in future may perhaps be, where is the 'secondary deposit' in animal structure, which is not connected with the spiral form ? The spiral in animals, as he a 0 FIG. 291.— ELEMENTARY FIBRES FROM THE PECTORAL MUSCLE OF A FCETAL CALF ABOUT TWO MONTHS AFTER CONCEPTION, SHOWING THE CORPUSCLES AT a, a, a. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. conceives he has shown, is in strictness not a secondary formation, but the most primary of all; and the question now is, whether it is not precisely so in plants." As these speculations profess to be grounded solely on observations of particular structures, of which muscle is one, I shall make no apology for applying my few remarks solely to the account of this structure, which is all that can properly be considered here. A renewed examination of this tissue has confirmed, fully and decisively to my own mind, the account I gave of it in 1840, and which was the result of two years' study. 1. I find that when the natural and ready cleavage happens to be into fibrillse (and I do not pretend to explain why this cleavage should be at one time into fibrillae and at another time into discs, I only know the fact), these solitary and isolated fibriUse do not present any such central longitudinal groove, as Dr. Barry describes, to indicate their double nature: that the cross lines are usually transverse, and not oblique, by which I mean that the spaces they bound have a rectangular outline, so sharp and definite, that the mind rests entirely satisfied that there cannot be two opinions concerning them, between any who have examined the object in one of Powell's best microscopes, and with the use of that admirable definer and clarifier of the image, the achromatic condenser. That right angles can be produced by a spiral, 2k240 CORPUSCLES OF THE ELEMENTARY FIBRE. whether double or single, however distorted by accident or violence, it is impossible to conceive. That these transverse lines may sometimes become oblique by irregular traction, such as is almost necessarily applied in preparing the object, is most easy to understand, if we bear in mind, that the substance in the different spaces which they circumscribe is one united mass. 2. The transverse cleavage of the elementary fibre, which I first showed to be occasionally so complete as to separate it into discs cannot be reconciled with Dr. Barry's statement. For the surfaces of such discs present, as in fig. 288, a fine granular aspect, and no ends of doubly spiral threads. And the definite and beautiful appearance presented by a transverse section of the fibre in all FIG. 292.—ELEMENTARY FIBRE FROM THE LARVA OF THE LIB ELLULA, IN AN EARLY STAGE OF DEVELOPMENT, SHOWING THE CENTRAL ROW OF CORPUSCLES. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. animals, but especially in birds (fig. 290), is totally at variance with his views : for the particles there displayed are highly refracting, rounds and not aggregated in pairs. The condition represented in fig. 289 is not less opposed to them. Other proofs might be adduced, but they would lead to greater detail than is compatible with the form of the present publication ; and perhaps they will be allowed to be unnecessary. 6. Of the Corpuscles of the Elementary Fibre.—The elementary fibres always contain, among their primitive particles, a number of corpuscles, which either are, or are analogous to, the nuclei of the cells of development, of which this and other structures have originally consisted. These corpuscles are visible in the early stages a, a, Line of termination of the fibre, along which the tendon (b) is attached to it. c, Central series of corpuscles. Along the margin the sarcolemmais elevated by water (which has been absorbed), and is thereby shown to be adherent to the margin of the disc. FIG. 293.—ELEMENTARY FIBRE FROM THE LEG OF THE LARGE MEAT-FLY (MTJSCA VOMITORIa). of growth (fig. 291), but disappear towards the close of foetal life, as the lines resulting from the deposit of the contractile particles grow dark. The addition of a little acid, however, swells the fibre, obliterates the cross lines, and brings the corpuscles into view, not only at this early period, but at every subsequent one, even to old age. In insects, the nuclei in the earliest stage are a single or double series in the axis of the fibre, and in the perfect fibre they hold the same position. (See figs. 292 and 293, c.) In the Vertebrate classes they have a like correspondence, being scattered equally throughout the mass, in both foetal and adult states. Where the fibre is small, however, they usually abound more towards the surface. They are oval and flat, and of so little substance, that though many times larger than the primitive particles, and lying241 THE SARCOLEMMA. amongst them, they do not interfere with their mutual apposition and union. These corpuscles are frequently the cause of irregular dark longitudinal streaks seen in the fibre by transmitted light. They usually contain some central granules or nucleoli. [See fig. 295=) It is doubtful whether the corpuscles or nuclei originally present remain through life, or whether successive crops advance and decay during the progress of growth and nutrition. But it is certain, that, as development proceeds, fresh corpuscles are deposited, since their absolute number is far greater in the adult than in the foetus, while their number, relatively to the bulk of the fibre, at these two epochs, remains nearly the same. 7. Of the Sarcolemma, or Tunic of the Elementary Fibre.—This is a simple transparent homogeneous membrane of extreme tenuity, but very tough and elastic, which, in the form of a perfect tube, invests every elementary fibre, adheres to its surface, and isolates it from surrounding parts. It is universally present in voluntary muscles, and may be demonstrated in a variety of ways. When the fibres have been immersed in alcohol, which causes them to shrink, it is often seen wrinkled on their surface ; or when they are cracked or broken across, it frequently remains entire FIG. 294.—FRAGMENTS 01' AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE OF THE SKATE, HELD TOGETHER BY THE UNTORN BUT TWISTED SARCOLEMMA. and connects the severed fragments. (See fig. 294.) This method of showing it is best followed in the case of the large and brittle fibres of the Skate; or, it may be seen cut across in a general transverse section of a dried muscle. (See fig. 290.) When the texture of the fibre is destroyed by maceration, the broken mass is sometimes retained by the sheath, which thus becomes visible. When the fibre swells by acid, this tunic resists, and the swollen mass emerges at its broken and open end: but, if this is not effected with sufficient celerity, the sarcolemma may give way at different points, being burst by the mass, which thus forms hernia. Such protruding masses being unequally stretched have their transverse and longitudinal lines distorted from their true direction and thrown into very elegant curves. (See fig. 295.) Again, if a fibre still retaining its irritability, be immersed in water, this fluid, on being absorbed, excites contraction, by which it is immediately expelled from among the primitive particles. When thus forced out it usually collects between the fibre and its sheath, raising the latter in form of bullge. (See figs. 301 and 302, and Art. "Muscular Motion.") The progress of this interesting phenomenon evinces the adhesion that exists between the fibre and its sheath. The bulke immediately subside, by the transudation of their fluid, when the part is placed in thick syrup.242 THE SARCOLEMMA. I once met with a singular demonstration of the existence and properties of the sarcolemma, in finding it filled with numerous trichinae (fig. 296), which had taken the place of the contractile material, the sheath preserving all its characteristic baauty and transparency.* I discovered this remarkable membrane in Insects, Crustacea, and all the tribes of Vertebrata, in 1839, not knowing that Professor Schwann had previously described it in connection with the development of muscle in Insects and Fish.t He believes it to be a persistent portion of the membrane of the original cells of development, united to form a single tube, the septa at first resulting from their apposition having been absorbed. This opinion is undoubtedly ingenious; but, as I have yet no data from which to judge of its correctness, I neither admit nor deny it. I have seen the sarcolemma in human muscle as early as the period of birth, and have traced, it at all epochs, to old age, when the atrophy of its contents has often seemed to render it I- a, Point at which the sarcolemma is burst. 6, hernia of the sarcous mass, with distor- tion of the longitudinal and transverse lines, c, A smaller hernia. Corpuscles are seen scattered through- out the mass, and some detached ones, d, are represented below. Their average dia- meter is oue-thousandth of an English inch. FIG. 295.—PART OF AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE FROM THE HUMAN SUBJECT, TREATED WITH PHOSPHORIC ACID. more easy of detection. It also remains in muscles wasted by disease or accident at other periods of life, and no difference appears to occur in it whether the specimens examined are pale or dark-coloured, firm or flaccid. It is thickest in those classes that possess the thickest elementary fibres, viz., in Crustacea and Fish, and so thin in Birds, whose fibres are the smallest, that it is often difficult to detect it at all. With regard to the use which this singular structure may serve in the economy of the organ, our present ignorance of the manner in which motion is excited renders any explanation that might be offered of doubtful value. But it has appeared probable to me, first, that it may act as a mechanical protector and isolator of the contractile tissue enclosed within it; secondly, that its exquisitely smooth external surface may facilitate those rapid minute motions of neighbouring fibres, one against another, which may be shown to occur in contracting muscle {see " Muscular Motion "); * Auct., loc. cit., p. 480, pi. xvii., figs. 41-5. t 1 Mikros. Untersuch.,' p. 105.243 THE SARCOLEMMA. and, thirdly, that from its apparent similarity in structure to the membrane of the nervous tubules, which run among the fibres, and between which and the proper contractile tissue it seems certainly to intervene, as well as from its extensive contact and union with the surface of the contractile tissue, it may be the conducting medium of that influence, whose mode of propagation the late discovery of the loop-like 9 a, Ovum, b, Worms in slow motion. FIG. 296. TRICHINAE WITHIN THE SARCOLEMMA, FROM WHICH ALL THE CONTRACTILE MATERIAL HAD DISAPPEARED. FROM AN EEL. termination of the nerves in muscle has hitherto only seemed to render more inexplicable than ever. 8. Of the Extremities of the Elementary Fibres, and their Attachment to other Structures.—Every fibre is fixed to fibrous tissue, or to something analogous to it; but an accurate examination of this difficult subject gives no countenance to the ordinarily received opinion that this tissue is prolonged over the whole fibre from end to end, as its cellular sheath; nor is this view reconcilable with the physical requirements of the case. After many trials I have never succeeded in isolating a muscular fibre with FIG. 297.—EXTREMITY OF AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE, FROM THE SKATE (RAIA BATt's), SHOWING ITS ATTACHMENT TO TENDON. the tendinous fibrillse pertaining to it, in either Mammalia or Birds ; but this may be occasionally accomplished in Fishes, and in certain muscles of Insects. In these examples the minute detachment of the fibrous tissue may be seen to pass and become attached to the truncated extremity of the fibre. The fibre ends by a perfect disc, and with the whole surface of this disc the tendon is connected and continuous. (See fig. 297.) The sarcolemma ceases abruptly at the circumference of the terminal disc, and here some small part of the tendinous material appears to be joined to it. The same disposition may be well seen in the legs of certain Insects. (See fig. 293.) In _other cases, where the muscle is fixed obliquely to a membranous surface, each fibre244 UNSTRIPED MUSCLE. is obliquely truncated at its extremity, at an angle determined by the inclination of its axis, instances of which may be seen in the limbs of Crustacea, and elsewhere. 9. Development.—The researches of Valentin and Schwann have shown that a muscle consists in the earliest stage of a mass of nucleated cells, which first arrange themselves in a linear series, with more or less regularity, and then unite to constitute the elementary fibres. As this process of agglutination of the cells is going forward, a deposit of contractile material gradually takes place within them, commencing on the inner surface and advancing towards the centre, till the whole is solidified. The deposition occurs in granules, which, as they come into view, are seen to be disposed in the utmost order, according to the two directions already so often mentioned. These granules are the sarcous elements, and being of the same size as in the perfect muscle, the transverse stripes resulting from their apposition are of the same width as in the adult; but as they are very few in number, the fibres which they compose are of corresponding tenuity. From the very first period of their formation these granules are parts of a mass and not independent of one another, for as soon as solid matter is deposited in the cells, faint indications of a regular arrangement in granules are usually to be met with. It is common for the longitudinal lines to become well-defined before the transverse ones. When both are strongly marked, as is always the case at birth, the nuclei of the cells, which were before visible, disappear, being shrouded from view by the dark shadows caused by the multitudinous refractions of the light transmitted through the mass of granules; but, as before stated, they can still be shown to exist by immersion in a weak acid, which, while it swells the fibrinous material of the granules and obliterates their intervening lines, has no action upon the nuclei. B. Of the Unstriped Elementary Fibres. This variety possesses far less interest than the other in consequence of its apparent simplicity of structure. The fibres consist of flattened bands, generally of a pale colour, bulged at frequent intervals by elongated corpuscles similar to those of striped muscle, and capable of being displayed by the same process. (See fig. 298.) The texture of these fibres seems to be homogeneous. By transmitted light they have usually a soft, very finely mottled aspect, and are without a darkly-shaded border Some- times the mottling is so decided as to appear granular, and occasionally these granules are arranged in a linear series for some distance. This condition is probably an approximation towards the structure of the striped fibre, for I have observed the granules to be about the size of the sarcous elements already described. It is generally to be seen more or less distinctly in the gizzard of Birds, and I have now and then met with it in the fresh muscle of the stomach, intestinal canal, urinary bladder, and uterus of Mammalia. The ordinary diameter of the unstriped fibre is from ygWth t0 3FootnUNSTRIPED MUSCLE. 245 of an inch. From this account of the appearance of these fibres, it might be expected that their discrimination from other tissues would be often difficult. And, in fact, it is so to an inexperienced eye. The peculiar texture, however, the size, the soft margin, and, above all, the presence of numerous elongated oval corpuscles, with two or three granules in their centre, are characters which, taken together, I believe to be decisive. As a number of fibres usually take a parallel course together, the bulgings occasioned by the corpuscles give rise to partial longitudinal shadows, extending for some way beyond the corpuscles, in the intervals of the fibres. As these irregular longitudinal shadows occur pretty uniformly throughout an aggregation of fibres, .and as some are necessarily out of focus, while others are in focus, the whole mass commonly presents a very confused reticulate appearance, which has given rise to an almost universal notion that these fibres do, in reality, interlace one with another, and do not run parallel. This notion, however, is, in most cases, erroneous. It is doubtful a, Treated with acetic acid, and showing the corpuscles. b, Fragment of a detached fibre, not touched with acid. FIG. 298.—UNSTEIPEP ELEMENTARY FIBRES FROM THE HUMAN COLON. whether these fibres are invested in a sarcolemma: none has hitherto been detected in an unequivocal manner. It is also still a matter of speculation how they terminate, or whether they in all instances have a termination. In the case of the more or less circular set of fibres, inclosing the small intestine, for example, it is uncertain whether each fibre surrounds the canal once, returning into itself as a ring, or, more than once, as a spiral, or whether it passes only partially round it, the rest of the circle being completed by others. Whether the areolar tissue (the representative of the fibrous) that is always found in connection with these fibres, serves to give them an attachment by union with their extremities, or by involving them in its meshes, is also altogether unknown. In the gizzard of Birds the ends of the fibres are united to white fibrous tissue, thus making an approximation to the striped fibre, as they do in colour. But I have not been able, after diligent search, to detect the true transverse stripes, which Ficinus describes to exist in this organ.246 MODE OF AGGREGATION OF ELEMENTARY FIBRES. Of the Mode of Aggregation of the Elementary Fibres. The two kinds of fibre whose structure has now been described, are aggregated into masses of very various shape and bulk5 and supplied with areolar tissue, vessels and nerves, so as together to form the organs termed muscles. But if we trace these organs downwards through the animal scale, we come to examples in which solitary- fibres exist without any such appendages, and yet evidently performing the office of, and truly constituting, a perfect muscle. And even many fibres are found, so far smaller than the usual dimensions as to consist of only one or two linear series of sarcous elements, and these perhaps only visibly present near the centre of the fibre, where development is most advanced, and the contractile energy greatest. In such minute and simple forms we may perceive a transition from the striped towards the unstriped fibre, the transverse lines being often irregular, broken, or faintly marked. And we may also discern a clue to the meaning of the structural condition which is found in the complicated muscles of the higher animals. The essential contractile material is the fibre, and its mass is accurately proportioned to the power demanded. If this is below that of a single elementary fibre, the fibre is reduced in proportion; if more is required than one fibre can supply, the size of this is not increased but its number multiplied. The point at which an increase in number supersedes one in size, is that which has been already stated to be the average bulk of the fibre. This differs in the different classes of animals, and corresponds with the demand there may be in each class for vascular and nervous supply. For by the very constitution of the contractile material, it can receive neither vessels nor nerves into its interior substance, and therefore it must be itself subdivided further andjurther in proportion to the amount of these which are to be in contact with its surface. In the compound organs termed muscles, the fibres are usually disposed in parallel sets of 10, 20, 30, or more, surrounded and held together by a delicate areolar tissue, which penetrates more or less among the individual fibres, but does not necessarily invest each one of them from end to end* as it is frequently described to do. Where the fibres are not very large, it is often difficult to discern any areolar tissue at all in connection with them. These first sets admit of considerable motion on one another, in consequence of the looseness of their areolar sheath. Like the elementary fibres themselves their figure is polygonal, for they in their turn are arranged (if the muscle be large enough) into secondary sets, and are flattened by being pressed together. These again are aggregated into tertiary sets, and these into still larger ones, according to the size of the particular organ. All these sets partake of the polygonal figure of the elementary fibres; except the portion that forms a part of the general exterior of the muscle, which is usually more or less rounded. As the packets of fibres are larger, so their angles are more rounded, and their surface covered with a more abundant areolar sheath, and they approach, in247 MODE OF AGGREGATION OF ELEMENTARY FIBRES. fact, to the condition of a perfect muscle, which is itself included in an envelope of areolar tissue. Their angles are thus rounded in consequence of the greater quantity of areolar tissue, and of the larger size of the vessels and nerves that occupy their intervals. For the same reason the elementary fibres themselves are less sharply angular, when very small, as in birds, because the vessels accompanying them are proportionally more abundant, and occupy more space in their intervals. The arrangement of the elementary fibres into these packets has received more attention than its importance deserves, and anatomists have endeavoured to affix definite names (fasciculi, lacerti, &c.) to certain sizes of them. But no division of this kind is to be found in nature. It may be safely said that packets of every possible bulk exist from the simple set of two or three fibres, to those of many thousands, these last being subdivided with the greatest irregularity. And it is only in muscles possessed of some thickness that any such package in sets is to be met with. The abdominal plane muscles, which contain such an arrangement in the larger animals, are, in the smallest, composed of a single unbroken layer of elementary fibres. A similar diversity exists between muscles of different size and shape in the same animal. In the gluteus maximus, which is liable to pressure and change of position from its peculiar situation, the fibres are made up into lacerti, about one-quarter of an inch thick, surrounded with a dense areolar sheath, and attached loosely to one another; while the glutei situated underneath are, like the psoas, unprovided with such dense septa of areolar tissue, and seem more uniform throughout. From these and many other considerations which might be adduced, it may be clearly seen that the mere aggregation of the elementary fibres in a muscle into larger or smaller sets, is determined solely by its own peculiar circumstances and exigencies, and is not of a nature to demand particular description in so general an account as the present. The direction of the elementary fibres of voluntary muscles is usually straight, between their points of attachment, which are always some form of the fibrous tissue. This tissue may be so arranged as that the sets of muscular fibres passing from it, may be either parallel or oblique to one another, but the fibres forming any one set are generally placed in a parallel series. If the fibrous tissue form a laminar expansion on the surface of a muscle, the muscular fibres pass off from it obliquely, either to a similar expansion on the opposite surface or to a tendon. If they arise from an extensive surface of bone (i.e. of periosteum) they conduct themselves in a similar fashion, and also if they pass from a line of tendon or of bone. In all these cases the muscle may be styled penniforn. If a thread or sheet of fibrous tissue dip into the interior of a muscle, it gives origin to the muscular fibres on both sides, and they diverge from it obliquely: such a muscle is styled doubly penniform. When several such sheets enter the muscle at both extremities, and give attachment to the fibres obliquely placed in the intervals, the muscle is styled compound penniform, as the deltoid. 2 L248 AREOLAR TISSUE OP MUSCLES. One result of the varied arrangement of the tendinous fibres with regard to the muscular, is the production of symmetry and beauty of form ; a second is convenient package ; a third is the -adaptation of the particular muscle to the kind and amount of exercise which is required of it. Where a great mass of fibrous tissue runs into a muscle, the number of fibres and their obliquity is very much increased, while the length of each is diminished ; and, as a general result, the power of such a muscle is augmented, while the extent of its contractions is limited. The same mass of contractile material may be arranged as a few long fibres (as in the sartorius), or as many short ones (as in the masseter). In the former case its contractions would be characterised by their extent, in the latter by their power; for, cceteris paribus, the extent is as the length, the power as the thickness. The terms origin and insertion are employed with great convenience in ordinary anatomical language to denote the more fixed and the more movable attachments of muscles. In human anatomy general consent has sanctioned their use, and even, with few exceptions, their particular application to each muscle in the body, although this assignment is in many cases arbitrary, in consequence of its being impossible to determine which attachment is the more frequently the fixed one. The arrangement of the fibres in the heart has been already fully treated of in this work. In the muscular coat of the alimentary canal, of the bladder, and uterus, the unstriped fibres are disposed, as in the heart, so as to enclose a cavity, but without having, as in that organ, any point at which they can be said to commence or terminate. In the alimentary tube they are arranged in two lamina?, the respective fibres of which take a course at right angles to each other. In the bladder the arrangement is reticulate. The elementary fibres form sets of variable thickness, which at numerous points send off detachments to join neighbouring bundles, whence has sprung the notion that the fibres are branched. It is manifestly, however, the sets of them only that are branched, the unstriped like the striped fibres being invariably simple from end to end. In the uterus the disposition of the fibres is essentially similar, calculated to allow of great variety in the capacity of the cavity they encircle. c. Of the Areolar Tissue of Muscles. This tissue is much more abundant in the voluntary than in the involuntary muscles. In the former it forms an external investment, which sends septa into the intervals between the larger and smaller packets of fibres, and thus enables them to move in some degree independently of one another. The density of these general and partial sheaths is proportioned to the amount of pressure to which the organ may be subject, as is exemplified in the superficial muscles of the back, and in thoseBLOODVESSELS OF MUSCLES. 249 superficial muscles generally where a fibrous aponeurosis does not perform the same office. The areolar tissue does not usually clothe every individual fibre from end to end, giving it a cellular sheath, except in cases where the elementary fibres are of large dimensions. Besides the protection the areolar tissue affords to the muscular fibres, it admits of motions between them. But it must also serve the important office of limiting undue motions of one part of a muscle on another part, by its forming a connecting bond between neighbouring bundles. But a principal use of it appears to be that of furnishing a resisting nidus in which the delicate vessels and nerves can traverse the interstices of the fibres, and by which they can be protected from hurtful dragging during the unequal and oscillating movements of the fibres of a voluntary muscle during its state of activity. This idea is supported by the fact that scarcely any areolar tissue exists in the heart or in the unstriped muscles generally. In the heart, though the contraction is powerful, it is instantaneous or nearly so, and there- fore probably more uniformly diffused, so that neighbouring fibres must be less moved on one another than in the more sustained contraction of a voluntary muscle. Moreover the mutual intertwining of even the elementary fibres in this organ is, in many parts of it, so intricate, as to contribute much to their mutual support. And in the other involuntary muscles, the contractions are slowly and evenly progressive along the fibres of the same set. Of the Bloodvessels of Muscles. The arteries and veins of muscles commonly run together, and most of the arterial branches, to within two removes from the capillaries, are accompanied by two venae comites. They invariably pass more or less across the direction of the fibres, divide and subdivide, first in the intervals between the larger sets, then between the smaller sets, till the ultimate twigs insinuate themselves between the fibres composing the smallest bundles, and break up into their capillary terminations. In this course the vessels supply the areolar tissue, their own coats, and the attendant nerves. The capillary plexus of the areolar membrane consists of irregular but pretty equal-sized meshes, and contrasts strongly with that of the muscular tissue itself. The proper capillaries of muscle are quite characteristic in their arrangement, so that a person who has once seen them can never afterwards mistake them. They consist of longitudinal and transverse vessels, the longitudinal always following the course of the elementary fibres, and lying in the intervals between them, the transverse being short communications placed at nearly equal distances between the longitudinal ones, and crossing nearly or quite transversely over or under the fibres. The manner in which the longitudinal vessels are placed in relation to the fibres, is seen in fig. 286, 2l 2BLOODVESSELS OF MUSCLES. 250 where I have represented them as they are seen on a transverse section. They usually occupy the interstice between three or more fibres, but sometimes also the space between the contiguous surfaces of two fibres. The length of the longitudinal vessels does not usually exceed the twentieth of an inch; in other words, the terminal twigs of the artery and vein pertaining to the same capillary are seldom further than that apart. The length of the transverse anastomosing capillaries necessarily varies with the thickness of the fibres over which they pass. (See fig. 299.) The diameter of the capillaries of muscle varies like that of others with the size of the blood-particles of the animal. It is, however, only just sufficient to allow of the particles to pass. If a fragment of a Frog's muscle, perfectly fresh, be examined, series of blood-particles will be seen in the longitudinal capillaries. These particles are compressed and a, a, Terminal twig of the artery, b, b, ter- minal twigs of two neighbouring venous branches, anastomosing, and carrying off blood from the same capillary net-work, c, c. e, An elementary fibre, to which the relative size and direction of those to which the capillaries here represented are distributed. FIG. 299.—VIEW OP THE CAPILLARIES OF MUSCLE (PART OF THE LATISSIMUS DORSI OF A MOUSE, WHERE IT CONSISTS OF A SINGLE SHEET OF FIBRES). elongated, sometimes to a great extent, evidently by the narrowness of the canal which contains them. It may seem at first sight not doubtful that in the living creature these elastic blood-discs are similarly elongated in their passage through the vessels of muscle, but the admirable researches of Poiseutlle will perhaps serve to explain this appearance without our being driven to suppose the presence of so formidable an obstacle to the capillary circulation through these organs. It is more probable that the contraction of the vessels and the compression of the blood-discs occur, on some of the contents of the vessels being permitted to escape by the severing of the fragment for microscopic examination. The coats of the capillaries of muscle consist of a simple diaphanous membrane, in which a few irregular-shaped cytoblasts occur at infrequent intervals.NERVES OF MUSCLE. 251 Of the Nerves of Muscle. The distribution of the nerves through muscular structures has always been a subject of great interest with those who looked to this line of inquiry for some clue to the explanation, either of that wonderful active connection subsisting between them, or of the nature of the contractile act itself. But though the anatomical results accruing from this inquiry are of a highly satisfactory kind, considered in themselves alone, yet they cannot be said to have hitherto contributed, in any great degree, to the elucidation of these mysterious questions. The best mode of inspecting the arrangement of the ultimate nervous twigs, is to select a very thin muscle (as one of the abdominal muscles of any small animal, or one of the muscles of the eye of a small bird), to steep it in weak acetic acid, and then thin it out under the compressorium. The primitive tubules of the nerve may then be readily distinguished FIG. 300.—LOOP-LIKE TERMINATION OF THE NERVES IN VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. AFTER BURDACH. with a power' of 100 to 200 linear. They separate from one another, at first in sets, afterwards in twos, threes, or fours, and if these be followed they will be found ultimately separating from one another, forming arches, and returning either to the same bundle from which they set out or to some neighbouring one. (See fig. 300.) In this loop-like course they accompany to some extent the minute bloodvessels, but do not accurately follow them in their last windings, since their distribution is in a different figure. They pass among the fibres of the muscle, and touch the sarcolemma as they pass; but as far as present researches have informed us, they are entirely precluded by this structure from all contact with the contractile material, and from all immediate intercourse with it. How then shall we explain the transmission of the nervous influence to a material thus enclosed ? If it were wise or safe to go a single step in advance of pure observation on so abstruse a question, we might suggest, resting on the seemingly sure ground of exact anatomy, that this influence must be of a nature capable of emanating beyond the limits of the organ252 DISTRIBUTION OF MUSCLE IN THE BODY. which furnishes it. But further than this, as to how, or to what extent this influence may so emanate, or as to what may be its nature, it would, perhaps, in the present state of knowledge, be hardly warrantable even to speculate. d. Of the Distribution of the Striped and Unstriped Fibre in the Body. The striped fibre is met with in all the voluntary muscles, and in a few involuntary, as the constrictors of the pharynx and the muscular coat of the oesophagus, and the heart. In the oesophagus it appears to be. mingled with the other variety to a somewhat uncertain extent. In some specimens from the human subject I have been unable to detect any striped fibres in the lower half of that tube, either in the circular or longitudinal layer, but in other examples they have been traceable to within an inch of the stomach. Among the lower animals considerable differences occur, as has been well pointed out by Mr. Gulliver/"" who observes that in general " the muscular fibre of animal life (striped) extended further towards the stomach in the outer than in the inner layer of the oesophageal muscular sheath." In several animals this gentleman found the striped fibres even on the stomach (as in the Babbit, Lepus cuniculus, Linn., the Sheep, Ovis aries, Desm., the Sloth Bear, Ursus labiatus, Blainv.), while in many others he met with them to within a very short distance of that cavity. Dr. Todd has also shown them to me on the glandular pouch at the cardiac extremity of the stomach in the Dormouse. It is still unknown in what manner the two varieties of fibre are arranged at this point of junction, some supposing that they are simply intermixed, others that they pass into one another by imperceptible gradations. The former of these views is that which appears most consonant with my own observations. Mr. Skey considerst that the fibres of the heart " possess a somewhat compound character of texture," and this opinion seems highly probable. They possess, it is true, the transverse stripes indicative of an arrangement of particles in parallel series, but there is frequently a want of that uniformity and precision in this appearance which so remarkably characterize voluntary muscle. The cross lines are apt to be broken and interrupted, and are sometimes difficult to discover at all. This condition is well represented by Mr. Skey in fig. 5 of his second plate. In some of the smaller and lower animals the particles never form transverse stripes. These fibres, as explained by him, are smaller than the average diameter of the voluntary muscles of the same subject by two-thirds, and in most parts of the heart they are not aggregated in parallel sets, but twine and change their relative position. Striped fibres have been found in the iris, in the small muscles of the ear, and in those muscular fasciculi that surround the urethra immediately * ' Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London,' No. 81, Sept., 1839. t 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1837, p. 381.253 DISTRIBUTION OF MUSCLE IN THE BODY. in front of the prostate. They are also found in the sphincters of the anus and vagina. The unstriped fibre is met with in the alimentary canal from the middle of the oesophagus to the rectum, and constitutes the double layer investing that tube. It also forms the muscular coat of the bladder and that of the uterus. The dartos owes its contractility to the presence of fibres of this variety, which, in consequence of the abundant admixture of areolar tissue, has not hitherto been clearly recognised ; but it may be detected by the addition of acetic acid, which, by bringing into view the peculiar corpuscles it contains, distinguishes it from both the white and yellow fibrous elements of the areolar tissue. But even without this chemical test, to which some may object, it is possible to discover this form of muscular fibre in the dartos, by the characteristic appearances which have been already attributed to it. Since satisfying myself of the real existence of this fibre in the dartos, I have on many occasions detected a very decisive peristaltic action advancing from one side of the scrotum to the other, and continued for a considerable period, yet of a kind which it was impossible to refer, with any degree of probability, to the cremaster. In one case particularly, occurring in the practice of Mr. Feegusson, where the tunica dartos was much hypertrophied, in connection with an old stricture of the urethra, we observed this peristaltic contraction of a very vigorous description. The fibres which have been described as peculiar to the dartos seem to be nothing more than a certain modification of the areolar tissue in that region. In the corpora cavernosa penis of the Horse there is a large quantity of this kind of fibre, as may be ascertained by microscopic examination, although Professor Muller* seems indisposed to consider it really muscular. He states that " viewed in the microscope these fibres do not present any resemblance to muscular fibres," but my own examinations of them have not confirmed this statement. They appear to me to have all the characteristics of this variety, and by acetic acid are seen to contain a great number of corpuscles. Moreover they appear to consist chemically of fibrine. Professor Muller has failed in exciting contraction in them in the living horse, but this is not a conclusive fact as to their nature, for it may be, and probably is the case, that they do not act unless stretched by the erection of the organ. In the quiescent condition of the part they may be considered to be in a contracted state, like the muscular coat of an empty intestine, and so would naturally appear to be unaffected by the stimulus of galvanism. The erection of the penis seems with great probability to be attributable to pressure exercised on the superficial veins of the organ by a continuation of a structure analogous to the dartos, and certainly containing the unstriped muscle, which is continued over the base of the penis under the skin. The erection of the nipple also occurs, on any mechanical irritation, with a motion so very much resembling the peristaltic action of muscular fibres, that I have little doubt such would be found, constituting a layer, under the skin in that region. And it may be matter of inquiry how far the general contractility of the skin is dependent on a * 'Physiology,' by Balt, second edition, p, 250.254 DISTRIBUTION OF MUSCLE IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. diffusion of this tissue, in small quantities, throughout its areolar structure. The excretory ducts of all the larger glands appear to possess a covering of fibre belonging to this variety. Such is the case with the ductus choledochus in Birds, and probably in Mammals, and in the ureters and vasa deferentia. The bronchial tubes may be mentioned under this head as the best marked example of this arrangement. The trachealis muscle consists evidently and entirely of the unstriped fibres, and the same may be traced down the bronchial ramifications as far as the air-cells themselves, though not into them. The distinctive characters of this form of muscle may here be unequivocally discerned, and if anatomists had been better acquainted with them, there would not have been room for those disputes regarding the muscularity of the bronchial tubes which have so long attracted the interest of practical physicians. Recently, indeed, there has been added to the satisfactory evidence of anatomy the well proved fact that these fibres may be excited to contraction by the galvanic stimulus.* In the case of other glands it is still unknown how far the muscular coat invests the ramifications of the duct; it is most likely that it gradually ceases a short way within the organ, and at least it seems clear that no portion of the secreting membrane itself is ever invested by it. e. Of the Distribution of the Striped and Unstriped Fibres in the Animal Kingdom. The striped fibres have been found in all vertebrated animals, and in Insects, Crustacea, Cirropods, and Arachnida. Future researches will probably discover them even more extensively diffused. But in the lower animals, especially when they are of small size, we find, as formerly mentioned, that the distinctive characters of the two varieties begin to merge into one another and be lost. The transverse stripes grow irregular, not parallel, interrupted; a fibre at one part will possess them, at another part will be without them; and even the peculiarities of the unstriped fibres are sometimes no longer to be met with in parts which are undoubtedly muscular, as the alimentary canal of small Insects. It is evident that here the elementary fibres, if of their usual bulk, would be greatly disproportioned to the requirements of the case, and consequently even the minute ultimate fibre seems to be reduced within limits which remove from it those anatomical characters by which alone we can positively aver its existence. Considering, however, the circumstances which have been already adverted to in this article, as determining the size of the elementary fibre in all animals, we should not be justified in denying the same muscular tissue to exist here which in the higher and larger forms of life assumes the figure and bulk of the elementary fibre; and by the same mode of reasoning it may be concluded, that a tissue having the same properties as the striped fibre, and indeed essentially * Dr. Williams, on ' Diseases of the Chest,' last edition, Appendix.CHEMICAL CONSTITUTION OE MUSCLE. 255 identical with that of which they consist, may possibly be the effective agent to which are due those wonderfully vivacious movements witnessed in the bodies of many of the minutest infusoria, where the best microscope can hardly do more than discern the organs thus put in motion. And it seems far from an unphilosophical view of the nature of ciliary motion, to refer it to the contractions of a tissue not entirely different in kind from the muscular. The elementary fibres of muscle, diminutive though they be, and hardly discernible with the eye, are yet gross organs in comparison with those which the microscope enables us to conceive capable of being formed out of them, without any necessary destruction or even injury of their contractile power. F. Chemical Constitution. There is little to add on this subject to what will be found under the head of "Eibrine." By the aid of the microscope, however, our knowledge has been rendered somewhat more precise, as to the chemical properties of the elementary structures existing in the fibres. If any substance capable of dissolving fibrine (as liq. ammonias) be added to the muscular fibre, this is seen to swell, to lose more or less completely its transverse and longitudinal markings, and to exhibit at once those corpuscles or cytoblasts, which before lay concealed among the sarcous elements. These corpuscles and the sarcolemma are not affected, but the sarcous elements are almost entirely taken up. But for however long a time the fibre be exposed to the alkaline menstruum, there will always remain a kind of web, of extreme tenuity and transparency, from which the sarcous elements appear to have been withdrawn. This may be seen in a transverse section of a muscle that has been thus treated, then washed and dried. I have not been able to detect in it any sort of structure 2 M257 MUSCULAR MOTION. From the ' Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology,' Vol. III. Under this head it is intended to consider the contractility of muscle, its source, the stimuli that excite it, and the nature of the minute movements occurring during the act of contraction. a. Of the Contractility of Muscle. This subject having already been ably discussed in this work [see " Contractility "), I shall here confine myself to such a brief statement as may appear to be required by the advance of knowledge since the publication of the article in question. 1. Is it a property inherent in the muscular fibre? Are we to believe in the "vis insita" of Holler?—The supporters of this opinion have always been exposed to the objection that in the cases of contraction adduced by them as the effect of a topical or immediate stimulus, the isolation of the muscle from all connection with nervous fibrils has not been demonstrated. Moreover, what has generally been regarded as their strongest ground, viz., the statement that involuntary muscles are not capable of being excited to contraction by irritation of their nerves, has lately been shown by the numerous experiments of Muller, Valentin, and others, to be erroneous and unworthy of credit. But I have elsewhere""" adduced the evidence of direct microscopical observations made on living fragments of the elementary fibre of voluntary muscle, entirely isolated from every extraneous tissue, whether nerve or vessel, to show that this is a property inherent in this tissue, and that, whatever be its source, it is capable of being brought into action by a stimulus topically applied. Thus, when such a fragment is examined, contraction is found to occur first at its broken extremities, and if water (which has long been known to be a rapid * ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1840, p. 487. 2 M 2258 CONTRACTILITY OF MUSCLE. exhauster of muscular irritability) be brought into contact with it, it is seen to absorb the fluid and to be excited to contractions, which commence at the surface. The same thing is frequently to be met with under a different form. A particle of foreign matter, as a hair or piece of dust, may be included by design or accident in the field so as to touch, the side of the fibre at a single point. When this happens, the fibre will often exhibit a contraction so plain and so limited to the point touched, as to give unequivocal proof of its being the result of the irritation of pressure. These interesting phenomena may be observed more or less satisfactorily in all animals whose fibres retain their irritability for a sufficient length of time after removal from the body, and the Crab and Lobster will be found the most favourably adapted for the purpose. In many Eeptiles and Fishes, also, the steps occur slowly enough to be adequately scrutinized. The facts in question can admit only of one explanation if it be conceded that the muscular element has been here separated from the nervous; and certainly that separation has been effected unless the nervous tubules send off from their terminal loops a set of fibrils which penetrate the sarcolemma and diffuse themselves through the contractile material within; a supposition [for which there exists at present no foundation in the observations of the most diligent investigators of the subject. They will, therefore, probably, be regarded as conclusive proof that contractility is a property inherent in the very structure of muscle, and capable of being excited to action independently of the immediate instrumentality of nerves. The determination of this point must have a very important bearing on the question of the nature and cause of contraction, into which no small confusion lias been introduced by the attempts to account for that phenomenon by various hypotheses of electrical action. That one, especially, which aims at establishing an attraction between distant points of the fibres where the nerve crosses them (the " zig-zag hypothesis" of Prevost and Dumas), and which, with the wrongly interpreted facts on which it principally rests, has had an immense, though sometimes unperceived, influence, ever since it was broached, on the whole question of contraction, is entirely refuted by the facts above-mentioned. There are some others, sprung out of this, which do not here require more than a passing allusion. 2. Source of Contractility: whence derived?—This important question, like the last, is debated up to the present day, but seems at length to have become disenthralled of certain loose hypotheses which have long interfered with its settlement. The discussion may be limited to such particulars as seem to be the most conclusive. It may be observed that the contractility and development of muscle, other things being the same, are always proportionate to one another. All causes interfering with development diminish contractility. Thus muscles become atrophied and weak by disuse, by lessening their supply of blood, by cutting off their connection with the central part of the nervous system. They are, on the contrary, augmented both in size and power by active use, during which both the vascular and nervousCONTRACTILITY OF MUSCLE. 259 parts supplied to them are, no doubt, urged to increased activity. How is it to be decided whether these changes of contractility depend on changes of nutrition, or whether both be not a common result of changes in the amount of nervous power brought to act upon the muscles. Dr. Marshall Hall has remarked that in paralysis from disease involving the spinal cord or nerves, the wasting of the muscles is far more rapid and complete than in paralysis from affection of the brain, wherein the spinal cord and its connection with the muscles remains in a normal state; and the deduction seems at first sight plain and inevitable, that it is from the spinal cord that the contractility is derived, or at least that the integrity of the spinal system is essential to the maintenance of that property in the muscles. An ingenious experiment of Dr. John Beid's,* however, proves that this is not the case, and explains the part which the spinal system plays in respect of this property in the instances referred to. " The spinal nerves were cut across, as they lie in the lower part of the spinal canal, in four Frogs, and both posterior extremities were thus insulated from their nervous connections with the spinal cord. The muscles of one of the paralysed limbs were daily exercised by a weak galvanic batter}^ while the muscles of the other limb were allowed to remain quiescent. This was continued for two months, and at the end of that time the muscles of the exercised limb retained their original size and firmness and contracted vigorously, while those of the quiescent limb had shrunk to at least one-half of their former bulk, and presented a marked contrast with those of the exercised limb. The muscles of the quiescent limb still retained their contractility, even at the end of two months ; but there can be little doubt," adds Dr. Eeid, " that from the imperfect nutrition of the muscles and the progressing changes in their physical structure, this would in no long time have disappeared had circumstances permitted me to prolong the experiment." It is clear from this description that though contractility remained, it was diminished proportionally to the wasting, in the limbs that had not been exercised. The results of this admirably devised experiment cannot possibly be reconciled with the opinion that the spinal cord has any necessary or immediate influence in conferring contractility on muscles—that it is the source whence that property is derived. On the contrary, they show in a manner that admits of no dispute that both contractility and nutrition have been preserved together by the continued activity of the property existing in the fully developed organ at the period when the experiment was begun; and hence it is plain, and conformable to all analogy, that contractility is a property depending for its integrity on a healthy state of nutrition, which in its turn requires for its support the due exercise of the property it confers. It might, perhaps, be argued by one disposed to uphold the electrical hypothesis of the nervous influence and muscular power, that in the foregoing experiments the galvanism supplied the place of the intercepted nervous communication, by directly furnishing the muscles with the endowment of contractility ; and it is not easy to * ' Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science,' May, 1841, p. 327.260 CONTRACTILITY OF MUSCLE. meet the objection by any decided proof to the contrary. It would be very difficult to induce oft-repeated contractions in a paralysed muscle by any other than electrical agency ; but the refutation of this view will be found in the general arguments against the identity of the nervous influence with any form of electricity. Viewed by the light of this and other allied experiments, the variation found in the state of nutrition of paralysed limbs is easily accounted for. In cerebral paralysis the muscles are still subject to contraction in obedience to reflected stimuli through the spinal cord, while in the complete spinal palsy and that arising from disease of the nerves, they are never excited to action; whence their firmness in the former compared with their impoverishment in the latter case. In the paralysis of the lower limbs so graphically described by Pott, and resulting from disease propagated to the cord from the vertebras, the early symptoms are those of irritation, and consist rather of irregular contractions, probably in part reflex, and which the patient is unable to control, than of any diminution of actual power in the limbs ; and it is constantly remarked that in this stage there is no loss of size in the affected parts, but rather that in the midst of a general emaciation consequent on the patient's confinement, these limbs retain their fulness, and even appear hypertrophied. Should the malady advance to disorganization of the cord, the muscles cease to be excited. They become dead to all stimuli except such as are topically applied, and being never so stimulated, soon become flabby and wasted. Thus it would appear that the spinal cord in cerebral paralysis serves to keep up contractility in the muscles, not by supplying them with it, as from a source, but by exhausting them through the contractions it excites. It is not a charger but an exhauster through its nerves; and as exhaustion alternating with re-accumulation is necessary for healthy nutrition, and healthy nutrition induces contractility, it becomes in such cases an important though indirect agent in the maintenance of that property in the muscles. There can be little doubt that if muscles completely cut off from the nervous centres were submitted to galvanic agency at frequent intervals, they would not decrease in size, and might, if already atrophied, be even augmented in bulk and power; and perhaps some of the vaunted successes obtained by galvanism and electricity may be explained in this manner. There appears to be no argument nor established fact on the other side which invalidates the experiment of Dr. Eeid, or which does not admit of being explained on the ground which that experiment substantiates; and the whole question is still further cleared by the singular circumstance that has been often adduced, that foetuses born without brain or cord may have their muscular system developed and active. If, to what has now been advanced, there be added the evidence before adduced, that this is a property inherent in the very structure of muscle, and that it is capable of being exerted therein independently of all communication with other tissues, it will probably no longer remain doubtful that it is a property belonging to muscle as a tissue, and that it only requires for its perfection that nutrition should be perfect.261 STIMULI OF MUSCLE. Whatever interrupts nutrition interferes with it, and it matters little whether such interruption arises from the want of its own exercise or from deficiency of arterial supply, arising from causes either local or general. Inertness of a muscle, whether the consequence of diseased nerves or otherwise, will be attended with more or less atrophy and weakness, according to its degree, and to that alone. For full information concerning the varieties in the intensity of this power, and in its durability in muscles after systemic death or after their removal from connection with the nervous and vascular systems, the reader is referred to the article " Irritability." I would merely remark in corroboration of the views there maintained, that in the animal series the size of the elementary fibres and the consequent amount of their vascular supply, independently of the more or less arterial quality of the blood, is accurately proportioned to their irritability. Thus Birds, whose irritability is most exalted and most evanescent, have the smallest fibres and the most richly supplied with blood ; while Eeptiles, Fish, and Crustacea, in which the irritability is most enduring, have fibres of large dimensions and provided with a vascular web of small comparative size (fig. 286, art. "Muscle"). The same is true as regards the heart compared with the voluntary muscles. b. Of the Stimuli of Muscle. The stimuli which induce contraction have been classed into remote and immediate. Properly speaking, the remote stimuli are stimuli to the nerves and not to the muscles; they cause a change in the motor nerves, which are thus made to excite contraction by their immediate and topical action on the muscles. Of these the chief are volition, emotion, and impressions carried by the afferent nerves to the nervous centres and involuntarily reflected thence ; but various diseases and injuries of the motor nerves, either at their origin or in their course, and pressure, heat, chemical substances, electricity, galvanism, &c, applied to their texture, are to be ranged under the same head. The nature of the change thus induced in the motor nerves is entirely unknown. There seems, however, no ground for believing that it differs with the particular stimulus which induces it, and certainly a clear distinction ought ever to be drawn between it and its exciting cause. The nerves, when this change is induced in them, occasion the muscles to which they are distributed to contract. The stimulus they give is an immediate one, and is termed the vis nervosa or the nervous stimulus of muscle. It acts topically on the muscular fibre. The other immediate stimuli are physical and chemical; they are rarely exerted in the living body, except in the case of the hollow muscles. It has already been stated that trustworthy experimentsCHANGES IN MUSCLE DURING CONTRACTION. 262 have lately shown these to be under the influence of motor nerves ^derived from the spinal marrow, but it seems probable that some at least are normally excited to contract by direct stimulation, to one form of which, that of stretching or distension, they are peculiarly liable from their arrangement as investments to cavities. All muscles, however, may be made to contract by physical and chemical stimuli applied to their fibres. The effects of water and mechanical pressure as immediate stimuli have been already alluded to. Chemical substances may be seen to act similarly, if they be not so powerful as to destroy the texture of the part; and it is probable that electrical forces have a like agency. An interesting phenomenon has been pointed out by Dr. Stokes,* which seems to show very clearly that contractions of voluntary muscles may be excited by an immediate stimulus in the living body. In various cases of phthisis, and in others, particularly those attended with emaciation, a sharp tap with the fingers on any muscular part is instantly followed by a contraction, evidenced by the rise of a defined firm swelling at the point struck, enduring several seconds before it gradually subsides. This is often so prominent as to throw a shadow along the skin, and for the moment it might almost be mistaken for a solid tumour. That it is limited to the point struck is full proof of its being a direct effect of the irritation, and not produced through the intervention of nerves; for a contraction excited in the latter mode would be diffused over the part to which the nervous twigs irritated were supplied, and would therefore frequently extend to some distance. c, On the Visible Changes occurring in Muscle during Contraction. 1. Of the changes essential to the act.—A muscle in action becomes shorter and thicker, and it is well ascertained by experiments often repeated that these changes in its relative dimensions are accurately proportioned to one another. The whole organ neither gains nor loses in bulk. What is true of the organ is true of the tissue—in contraction it increases in diameter and shortens in a corresponding degree. This is all that can be said in general respecting the visible features of this remarkable phenomenon. Late investigations, instead of explaining the manner in which contraction is effected, by showing its dependence on forces previously understood, have only served to point out the inadequacy of the coarse and mechanical hypotheses which physiologists have been so prone to confide in, and to make it more than probable that they must ever be content to repose upon the fact above stated as the simplest which the most refined microscopical analysis can ever disclose. * ' On Diseases of the Chest,' p. 397. See also Dr. Guy, in the new edition of Hooper's ' Physician's Vade Mecum,' p. 92.263 CHANGES IN MUSCLE DURING CONTRACTION. The intimate connection between the nerves and muscles, both in rest and action, and the exquisite organization displayed in the structure of those muscles which are most quick and energetic in their movements, have powerfully contributed to excite the hope that a clue to the discovery of the physical mechanism of contraction would one day be found. It may be thought, therefore, a subject of disappointment that when at length a close insight into its visible characters has been obtained, and the minutest particles which the best instruments can discern have been brought under observation during their state of activity, the only change that can be appreciated in them is that which was long ago known by accurate experiment to occur in the aggregate mass, viz., that they become shorter and thicker. All muscle, after systemic death or after removal from the body, undergoes a contraction, termed the rigor mortis, which has received much attention in all that relates to the mode of its approach, its course and duration, and the practical bearings it presents. This phenomenon may be varied by the application of stimuli, and is eminently suited for the display of the minute changes occurring in muscle during its active state. FIG. 301.—FRAGMENT OF AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE (FROM THE EEI,) PARTIALLY CONTRACTED IN WATER. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. The muscle with striped fibres is peculiarly adapted for the display of these changes; for its texture not being homogeneous, but marked throughout with perfect regularity into spaces or particles so minute as to require to be very highly magnified before they can be even seen at all, the anatomist is provided with the means of detecting movements, which, without this circumstance, must have remained con- cealed. It is accordingly by the study of this variety of the tissue that the results just alluded to have been obtained. When a fragment retaining its contractility is torn up into its elementary fibres, these are seen to undergo a slow movement at certain points, especially where they have suffered violence, as at their broken extremities. This movement consists of a shortening and thickening of the material composing the fibre, as is shown by the general outline of the part, but especially by the appearances visible in its interior. The transverse stripes, both light and dark, become longer and thinner; in other words, the discs expand in circumference, flatten and approximate to one another; or to use another form of expression, the fibrillar become shorter and thicker, both in the particles composing them and the material connecting those particles. a, Uncontracted part, b, Contracted part, along the border of which, at c, c, the sarcolemma is raised from the surface by the water that has been absorbed, that has thereby caused the contraction, and by it has been expelled from the contractile mass. (See fig. 301.) 2 NCHANGES IN MUSCLE DURING CONTRACTION. 264 These changes are always local, or partial, and it is most evident from the characters they constantly present, that they are not limited to any determinate regions, points, or segments, but occur indifferently wherever the exciting cause may chance to be exerted. Neither discs nor fibrillas appear to have the smallest share, as aggregations of particles bearing those particular forms, in producing the phenomena of contraction. A contraction is never bounded to a particular number of discs or fibrillee, and is never accurately limited by the interval between two discs. It constantly happens that at the edge of the contracted part several discs are only partially engaged in it. A contraction generally, when commencing at the broken end of a fibre, occupies its whole width there; but when it commences at the border of the fibre it may be confined to a portion of many discs. And, further, a contraction never occupies the whole length of a fibre or fibrilla at once. A contraction excited in an elementary fibre by the contact of a hair extends into the mass equally in all directions, as we might suppose it would do, if the mass were homogeneous. In a word, an attentive study of these interesting phenonema has convinced me that in the bare fact of contraction the build of the fibre is an item of no importance whatever: the exquisite symmetry displayed in the apposition of its component particles is, as it were, disregarded and overlooked, while the whole process is to be referred to the material itself, the ultimate tissue, whose property is contractility. This property appears to reside both in the particles and the substance connecting them. The ultimate movements, therefore, on which contraction depends, whatever they may consist in, are molecular, and far beyond the reach of sense. It will be perceived that this view of the subject is the only one which can harmonize the fact of contraction in voluntary muscle with the same phenomenon in structures which have no complicated internal arrangement of particles. In regarding contractility, therefore, as a property of the living muscular fibre in general, it is meant that it resides in it as a property without which it would not be muscle, and in such a manner that no particle, however microscopic, can be detached from muscle which does not of itself, and independently of the rest, possess this property, as long as it possesses vitality. It follows from what has been advanced that those hypotheses which refer contraction to a force exerted between determinate but distant points of the fibre, as where the nervous fibrilke cross it, or at intervals such as Mullek* has sometimes seen in Insects, must fall to the ground. They are so entirely incompatible with the facts above stated that it can scarcely be necessary to dwell at length on the other reasons for rejecting them, or on the explanation of the phenomena adduced in their support. The main fact on which they have been built is that long ago mentioned by Hales, and more recently studied with minute care by Pkevost and Dumas, viz., that in the * ' Physiology,' by Baly, p. 889.265 CHANGES IN MUSCLE DURING CONTRACTION. abdominal muscles of the Frog detached and excited by galvanism, the elementary fibres are seen to be thrown more or less into a zigzag form. It is evident that in interpreting what they saw these eminent physiologists mistook the relaxed fibres for contracted ones. In conducting such experiments many precautions are required, and, at the best, nothing of the real process of contraction can be witnessed. As Muller correctly remarks, the muscle is too thick to be seen under a high power. Besides, the shock of galvanism causes only an instantaneous contraction, during which the muscle is so agitated that it is in vain to attempt to examine its condition. It gets out of the focus of the instrument. What is seen afterwards is not the contraction but its result, viz., an approximation of the extremities of the fibres. If the galvanic shock has acted uniformly on all the fibres (which is rare), they all remain straight; but if on a part only, those which have escaped contraction are thrown into zigzags by having their ends brought nearer through their cellular connection with neighbouring contracted fibres. It is most natural that the precise point of such flexures should often be determined by the passage of nerves or vessels across the fibres. This is corroborated by the circumstance that relaxed fibres fall at once into zigzags when their ends are made to approach by mechanical means. MM. Prevost and Dumas have themselves drawn attention to an example of shortening without zigzags in the case of the distended abdominal muscles of the female Frog before spawning. They found that the fibres of those muscles when cut across remained straight, after shortening from 145 to 107 millimetres. Independently of the immense disadvantage at which the hypothesis in question supposes the force to act (viz., either between the particles at the retiring angles only of the zigzags, or between the distant angles themselves), it seems quite inconsistent with the able experiments of Schwann, which show that the power of a muscle diminishes in a direct ratio with the degree of its contraction. With these experiments, indeed, any hypothesis is at variance which is based on the idea of an attraction between isolated and separate points or particles, as, for example, the sarcous elements, for it cannot be conceived but that such an attractive force would augment in a multiplying ratio with the proximity of the points attracted. 2. On Passive and Active Contraction.—Passive Contraction.—Passive contraction is that which every muscle is continually prone to undergo, independently of stimuli, and by the mere quality of its tissue. The muscles are ever kept on the stretch by the nature of their position and attachments, and cannot have their ends so approximated by attitude or otherwise, as that their tendency to shorten themselves shall cease. If, for example, the rectus muscle of the thigh have its extremities brought as near together as can be effected artificially by posture, they would yet be found to approach still nearer on being freed from their attachment to the bones. This tendency to contract has been distinguished by the term retractility, from its being manifested by the retraction that occurs when the belly of a muscle is cut across. 2 n 2PASSIVE AND ACTIVE CONTRACTION. 266 But, in this instance, the retraction would appear to be in part caused by an active contraction excited by the stimulus of the injury. It has also been styled tonicity. The passive contraction of muscles continually opposes their elongation by the action of antagonists, and restores them when that action ceases. It is that which accom- modates them to an attitude artificially given, when no muscular effort is required to maintain it. When no active contraction is present in a limb, the passive contraction remains, and being brought to a state of equilibrium in all the muscles by their mutual antagonism, the limb is said to be at rest. This is the general condition during sleep. The passive contractility of muscles, therefore, is being ever exerted, without being attended by fatigue ; there seems no good reason for supposing it to be a property different from active contractility; it is rather the necessary condition of that property, in its passive or unstimulated state. Passive contraction is a vital act, for it ceases with the rigor mortis. Active Contraction.—This is the form of contraction which is attended with those manifestations of power or force that specially characterize muscle. It is always excited by a stimulus, and is always exerted in opposition to another force within the body, which it is able more or less completely to master. The opposing force is generally the passive contractility of antagonist muscles, but it may be the elasticity of parts, or, in the case of hollow muscles, the resistance of their own contents. Active contraction is partial in extent and duration. It requires intervals of rest, being attended with exhaustion of the power which produces it, which exhaustion in the voluntary muscles is attended with the sensation termed muscular fatigue. 3. Of the Differences between the Minute Movements of Muscle in Passive and Active Contraction.—In Passive Contraction.—It is, perhaps, impossible in the higher animals to observe the nature of the microscopic movements occurring during the passive shortening of a muscle ; but in the lower and smaller forms of life this may sometimes be accomplished. It may always appear doubtful, however, whether any contraction that may be here witnessed be entirely of the passive kind, and con- sequently the movements here noticed are not worthy of implicit reliance. But it is more easy and quite as satisfactory to bring a muscle under inspection, which is still in situ and in equilibrium with its antagonists; in such, contractile force is still present, though its effects are neutralized. This may be done in various small animals; perhaps the tail of small Fish or of the Tadpole of the common Frog is the best adapted for the purpose. In the latter, when deprived of its thick tegument, I have succeeded in gaining such a view, and have found the contraction to be quite uniform throughout, the transverse stripes being stationary and equidistant. This is nothing more than might have been expected on a priori grounds. The contraction being the effect of the passive exercise of the property shared equally by all parts of the tissue, would be equal in equal masses, and as the elementary fibres are of precisely equal width and substance from end to end, no part of them could predominate in action, as long as no special stimulus was applied. It may be concluded, therefore,267 PASSIVE AND ACTIVE CONTRACTION". that passive contraction is attended by a movement absolutely uniform throughout the whole mass of an elementary fibre or of a muscle. In Active Contraction.—The case is far otherwise in active contraction, as may now be considered proved by a considerable body of evidence. It might be argued, prior to direct proof, that active contraction, being the answer to a stimulus, must be partial, at least at its commencement, since no stimulus can be applied at the same instant to every particle of a muscle. Certain features of the contractions witnessed in fragments removed from the body, and examined in water under the microscope, have a close bearing on the present question. It has been already said that such contractions are uniformly partial; but they present two further varieties, either remaining in the part where they first occur, or leaving it as they engage others in the neighbourhood. The accidental circumstances under which the fragments are placed explain these varieties. In the former case the fragments are free to move; their ends approach in proportion to the amount of contraction, and as there is no force to extend them again when the contractile force ceases to be manifested in them, and advances to fresh parts, the contraction has the appearance of being permanent. In the latter case, certain parts of the fibre (as its broken extremities) are fixed more or less firmly, so as to offer a resistance to the contraction that takes place, this resistance enabling the contractile force advancing to new parts to obliterate the traces of contraction in the parts in which it is subsiding, by stretching them. The ends usually become fixed in con- sequence of their being the first to thicken from contraction and from their thus receiving the pressure of the lamina of mica or glass with which it is requisite to cover the object, and they are the first to contract, because irritated both by being broken and also by the water, which is absorbed soonest where the sheath is deficient. This fixing of the ends brings the fibres in question nearly into the condition under which they exist in the living body, where it has already been explained that there is always a resistance to be overcome in active contraction. This particular variety of the phenomenon, therefore, deserves special study. Those animals whose muscles are most tenacious of their contractility are the best suited for examination, and among these the young Crab or Lobster may be most easily obtained. In an elementary fibre from the claw, laid out on glass, and then covered with a wet lamina of mica, the following phenomena are always to be observed. Th*e ends become first contracted and fixed. Then contractions commence at isolated spots along the margin of the fibre, which they cause to bulge. At first they only engage a very limited amount of the mass, spreading into its interior equally in all directions, and being marked by a close approximation of the transverse stripes. These contractions pull upon the remainder of the fibre only in the direction of its length, so that along its edge the transverse stripes in the intervals are very much widened and distorted. These contractions are never stationary, but oscillate from end to end, relinquishing on the one hand what they gain on the other. When they are numerous along the same268 ACTIVE CONTRACTION. margin they interfere most irregularly with one another, dragging one another as though striving for the mastery, the larger ones continually overcoming the smaller, then subsiding as though spent, stretched again by new spots of contraction, and again, after a short period of repose, engaged in their turn by some advancing wave: this is the first stage of the phenomenon. (See fig. 302.) The contractions increase in number and extent, and gradually engage the whole substance of the fibre. There is still the same struggle, the same alternate action and repose in individual parts, but as the contractions by degrees predominate, the ends of the fibre are drawn more and more near (intermediate portions by their contraction receiving some of the pressure), until at last the whole fragment is reduced to a third of its original length, and stiffened with the rigor mortis. The muscular tissue in these animals is very tough, but where it is more fragile, as in the Frog, it may give way in the intervals between spots of contraction, and become ruptured and disorganized in various degrees.* In Fishes I have seen a succession of phenomena similar to what has been described in the Crab; waves of Shovring a spot of contraction (6) and the sarcolemma elevated in the form of bullae by the expressed water (a). ■ FIG. 302.—BOEDER OF AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE OF A YOUNG CRAB. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. contraction advancing and receding, but gradually augmenting in bulk, till the whole fibre was finally contracted. (See fig. 303.) In all these examples, as long as the ends of the fragment are fixed, and will not yield to the convellent force, that force is seen to be exerted in a momentary manner in successive portions of the mass. In proportion as they yield to it, the resistance which enabled the contraction of new parts to stretch those from which it was receding is removed, and the appearances of contraction remain. A distinction is required between the contractile force and the contraction resulting from its exercise. The latter will be permanent,* if no force from without be exerted to obliterate it by stretching, for a contracted muscle has no power of extending itself; there is no repellent force between its molecules. From these phenomena, therefore, it is possible to eliminate the appearances resulting from a subsided force, and to judge of the mode and duration of action of the force itself. Thus sifted, they prove that, even when directly stimulated by water after removal from the body, a muscle contracts in successive portions, never in its totality at once, and that no particle of it is capable of exhibiting an active contraction for more than an instant of time. * ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1840, p. 490, pi. xix., fig. 75.269 ACTIVE CONTRACTION. * ' Philosophical Transactions, 1841, p. 69. The appearances presented by muscle that has been ruptured by its own inordinate contraction in fatal tetanus in the human subject will supply the link wanting to connect the foregoing phenomena with those occurring in healthy con- traction during life: for tetanic spasm differs from sustained voluntary contraction only in its amount and protracted duration, and in its being independent of the will, none of which circumstances are of essential importance in regard to the nature of the act of contraction itself. The muscles are so arranged in the body that no amount of contraction which the mechanism of the bony and ligamentous framework will permit one of them to undergo, can by possibility occasion the rupture of a relaxed antagonist: to be ruptured the antagonist must be itself contracted. But a muscle, if contracting beyond its natural amount, may be so resisted by mechanical powers, in or out of the body, as to rupture itself. Hence, the contraction of a muscle is a necessary condition, and generally the essential cause of its own rupture: the other condition being a force greater than the tenacity of the ruptured part, holding its ends asunder; this latter may be either the active or passive contraction of antagonists, or mere The uppermost state is that previous to the commencement of contraction. a, a, a, Successive "waves" of contraction seen moving along one margin of the fibre, marked by a bulging of the margin, by an approximation of the transverse stripes, and by a consequent darkening of the spots. b, b, b, Similar " waves " still moving along the fibre, but engaging its whole thickness. FIG. 303.—STAGES OF CONTRACTION SEEN ON ONE OCCASION IN AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE OF THE SKATE. mechanical resistance. But it is evident that for a muscle to be ruptured by its own contraction, that contraction must be partial, as is shown in the case of the Frog's muscle already mentioned. An examination of muscle ruptured in tetanus is found to bear out these observations in the fullest manner.* The elementary fibres present numerous bulges of a fusiform shape, in which the transverse stripes are very close. These swellings or contracted parts are separated from one another by intervals of various lengths, in which the fibre has either entirely given way or is more or less stretched and disorganized. These appearances are met with after all contractility has departed; they are the vestiges of the spasm during life. Yet in other muscles, which have been likewise convulsed, but not ruptured, they are not found. Their presence is, therefore, the result of the rupture. They admit only of the following explanation: the contractile force has operated at the points contracted, and by its excess the intermediate portions have been stretched to270 ACTIVE CONTRACTION". laceration. Having once given way, the contracted parts have become isolated, and can no longer have been extended after the subsidence of their contractile force; they consequently retain the form and appearances they possessed, when surprised, as it were, by the rupture they have themselves produced of the intervening parts. Supposing, for a moment, that active contraction were a universal and equable act, and that by the superior power of an antagonist a weak muscle has been ruptured, the appearances resulting would manifestly be entirely different from those now detailed. The fibres beyond their ruptured point would have their transverse stripes uniformly approximated. From the preceding facts I conclude first, that active contraction never occurs in the whole mass of a muscle at once, nor in the whole of any one elementary fibre, but is always partial at any one instant of time; secondly, that no active contraction of a muscle, however apparently prolonged, is more than instantaneous in any one of its parts or particles ; and therefore, thirdly, that the sustained active contraction of a muscle is an act compounded of an infinite number of partial and momentary contractions, incessantly changing their place, and engaging new parts in succession; for every portion of the tissue must take its due share in the act. Two phenomena yet remain to be mentioned, which, by admitting of a satisfactory explanation on this view of the subject, give strong testimony to its correctness. The first is the muscular sound heard on applying the ear to a muscle in action. It resembles, according to Dr. Wollaston's apt simile,* the distant rumbling of carriage wheels, or an exceedingly rapid and faint tremulous vibration, which, when well marked, has a metallic tone. It is the sound of friction, and appears to be occasioned by those movements of the neighbouring fibres upon one another, with which the partial contractions must be attended in their incessant oscillations. The other phenomenon is one, the existence of which has been recently ascertained by MM. Becquerel and BRESCHET,t viz., that a muscle during contraction augments in temperature. They have found this increase to be usually more than 1° Fahr., but sometimes, when the exertion has been continued for five minutes, as in sawing a piece of wood, it has been double that amount. This development of heat seems to be in a great measure attributable to, and even a necessary consequence of, the friction just alluded to. Thus it would appear that active contraction consists in a disturbance of that state of equilibrium ordinarily existing in muscles when at rest; that their different portions successively undergo momentary contractions, and that there is always a considerable part of each fibre uncontracted. This will account for the remarkable fact that detached fragments of the voluntary fibre will contract by two-thirds of their * ' Philosophical Transactions," 1811. t " Recherches sur la chaleur animale, au moyen des appareils thernio-electriques; " par MM. Becquerel et Beeschet, Membres de l'lnstifrut. 'Archives du Museum,' torn, i., p. 402.271 MUSCULAR CONTRACTION. length, though an entire muscle, in its natural situation, cannot shorten by more than one-third. This great capacity of contraction in the tissue would be without a purpose, if it were not that it only admits of momentary exertion, and therefore requires that in the organ successive parts should take up the act, and, by so doing, render it, as a whole, continuous. In an active fibre the contracting parts are continually dragging on those in which the contractile force has just subsided, and which intervene between them and the extremities of the fibre. These are thereby instantly stretched, and come to serve the temporary purpose of a tendon; but one which resists extension more by its passive contractility than by its mere tenacity. It is these parts which in tetanic spasm suffer laceration; which happens in consequence of the contraction excited by the vis nervosa, being then too powerful to be resisted by the passive contractility. The preceding account of the minute changes occurring during contraction rests on data furnished by the striped form of muscular fibre; but there is nothing contained in it, which seems at variance with the little that is positively known regarding the contractions of the other form. The differences between the con- tractions of the two varieties are almost certainly confined to the manner of exercise, and do not extend to the essential nature of the act. Though the unstriped fibre has not been studied by the microscope during its active state, with the same success as the other, yet the similarity of the gross changes observed in it by the naked eye, to those seen in voluntary muscle, forbid us to doubt the identity of the phenomenon, in all that essentially constitutes it an act of contraction. From the knowledge we possess, we are perhaps entitled to hazard some further conjectures respecting the differences in the mode of exercise of the contractile power in different cases. In whatever that mysterious power may consist, it would appear that the structural modifications of the two kinds of fibres are intimately connected with the manner in which it is capable of being exerted. Wherever the striped structure occurs, we witness an aptitude for quick, energetic, and rapidly repeated movements, while, where it is deficient, they are sluggish, progressive, and more sustained. The varieties in the character of contractions performed by striped muscles are very striking, especially that of the heart, as compared with the prolonged action of the voluntary muscles. In both there is an alternate momentary action and repose of every contractile particle, but in the heart the contraction is universal at one instant, and the repose equally universal at the next, while, in the prolonged action of the voluntary muscles, contractions of certain parts of each fibre always co-exist with repose of other parts.* The contractions of voluntary muscles differ greatly from one another in duration, energy and extent. Nothing is more wonderful, if it be well considered, than the * By the expression ' universal at one instant,' I do not mean absolutely so, for observation and the presence of the muscular sound both declare that the contraction, eveu of the heart, though so apparently momentary, is progressive.LITERATURE OF MUSCULAR MOTION". 272 power the will possesses of regulating the amount of stimulus which it is able to give to the muscles, and that of transmitting it with uniformity during a given period. Dr. Wollaston * was of opinion that the phenomenon of the muscular sound affords a proof that the duration of a muscle's contraction depends on the application to it of a succession of distinct impulses; and this idea, according very nearly, as it does, with the later evidence of observation, appears, on the whole, the most satisfactory that has been advanced on this abstruse subject. He also thought that the intensity of a contraction corresponds with the rapidity with which these impulses are transmitted to it, and this likewise may be, in part, true. But there is, in addition to this, in all probability, a difference in the intensity of the stimulus itself in different cases, producing a difference in the size of each wave, a difference in the amount of contractile energy exerted in each, and a difference in the rapidity with which the waves oscillate along the fibre. The extent of the contraction (the duration and intensity being the same) will manifestly depend on the amount of the length of the fibre which is contracted at once. But we are ignorant whether this variation in amount is effected by a variety in the number of waves, or in the extent of the fibre engaged by each of them. The ancients appear to have been quite ignorant of the nature of muscles. Plato and Aristotle attributed to them so trivial an use, as to think that, like fat, or a kind of clothing, they kept out heat in summer and cold in winter.f The nerves and tendons were confounded with the muscles, as they commonly are at this day, by the vulgar. Boeelli, in his elaborate work, ' De Motu Animalium,' \ thinks it requisite (in 1734) to adduce arguments against the doctrine that muscle and flesh are different, the former composed of an aggregation of tendinous fibres, the latter a certain villous substance incrusted by the blood upon their exterior, a fact showing the extremely loose notions that prevailed on this subject even up to a comparatively recent period. The fibres so obviously composing the essential part of muscle have been the subject of the most extraordinary speculations, probably ever since it was discovered that they were endowed with contractility, the property which, on a superficial aspect, seemed the most closely associated with life. And it is by no means surprising, that when the microscope began to open a new world to view, it was applied with ardour to the investigation of this tissue. It is not easy to appreciate justly the accounts given of it by some of the earlier micrographers, in consequence of the indeterminate meaning of many of the terms they employed, and the imperfection of the means at their disposal for accurate definition and measurement of the objects they describe. Robert Hooke, however, had probably a correct general knowledge of the elementary fibres of voluntary muscle, and possibly even saw the fibrillee into which they often split; for we find him in 1678 speaking of the "fibres which seemed like a necklace * 1 Philosophical Transactions,' 1811. f ' Vesalius,' vol. i, p. 182. X Propos. ii.273 LITERATURE OF MUSCULAR MOTION". of pearl in the microscope."'5' Previous to him no author appears to have examined them. But Leeuwenhoek,t his friend and correspondent, makes continual mention of his examinations of the muscular fibre of various animals. This acute and enthusiastic observer clearly recognised the important fact, that each elementary fibre is a perfect and separate organ in itself; he was astonished to find that in all animals, the largest as well as the smallest, these fibres are excessively minute ; he discovered the manner in which they are aggregated, and invested by areolar tissue; and by boiling and drying a muscle and then making transverse sections of it, he ascertained those of voluntary muscle to be polygonal and solid. He described the cross lines, which he conceived to be on the surface only and to be the coils of a spiral thread. To this structure he attributed the active power of the fibre, comparing it to an elastic coil of wire. He further saw the longitudinal lines visible on the elementary fibre, and considered them to be an evidence of a still minuter composition by fibrillge. All these points are well illustrated by figures, which leave no doubt of his meaning ; but, as his results are scattered through a great number of letters, much of what he accomplished seems to have been overlooked by later writers. Leeuwenhoek con- cluded that in contraction the cross markings approximate, but I cannot discover that he speaks of having seen this. He confounded the cross markings seen on tendon with those of muscle, and fell into the prevalent error of attributing contractility to the tendons. Malpighi incidentally mentions the minute structure of muscle in only one passage of his works.;); He appears to have seen the transverse stripes of the elementary fibre, and to have also likened them to those of tendon. Contemporary with Leeuwenhoek was de Heide,§ who, in 1698, published some observations on muscular fibre, describing and figuring the transverse markings. In 1741, Muys,|| in a voluminous work, with good plates, gave all that was previously known, and added many observations of his own. His book, however, is learned rather than profound. He separates the elementary fibres into the simple and reticulated, and seems to have considered the stripes to be the effect either of minute zigzags during contraction or of a spiral form of the fibrillge. Prochaska^[ next produced an excellent treatise on muscle, in which he explained, with great clearness, the figure, size, and solidity of the elementary fibre, and the appearances of the fibrillge into which it divides. He fell into the error, however, of confounding the transverse markings in the intervals of the discs, with other creasings or flexuosities which never exist in the living body, but continually present themselves in the dead fibre from mechanical causes. All these he attributed to lateral pressure * ' Posthumous Works,' by Waller, 1707—1 Life,' p. xx. t ' Epist. Physiologicse,' passim. J ' De Bombyce,' pp. 9 and 10, written before the year 1687. § ' Experimenta circa sanguinis missionem, fibras motrices,' &c, Amstel., 1698 || ' Investigatio fabricse,' &c, Lngd. Bat., 1741. ^ ' De carne musculari,' Vienna?, ] 778. 2 o 2274 LITERATURE OF MUSCULAR MOTION. made on the fibre and fibrillas by vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue, which he erroneously imagined to penetrate the interior of the fibre. Prochaska injected muscle with great success,'" and found the vessels so numerous that he was induced to believe contraction to depend on distension of the vessels, throwing the fibrilhe into zigzags. FoNTANA,t a few years afterwards, gave a much more accurate account of the fibre than had previously appeared, and one remarkable for its simplicity. According to him the elementary fibre consists of fibrillas, marked at equal distances by dark lines, which by their lateral apposition occasion the appearance of cross strise. Hence he styled the fibre a primitive fasciculus. By this term, which has been generally adopted, undue importance is attributed to the longitudinal cleavage, for the elementary fibre may as justly be called a pile as a bundle. It is not, however, in strictness, either one or the other. In the period that has elapsed since Fontana's description was published, up to the last few years, no real addition has been made to our knowledge, and so discredited or forgotten, at least in this country, were the labours of the authors already enumerated, that the anatomy of the muscular fibre was taken up as a new inquiry in 1818 by Sir Everard Home and Mr. Bauer.J The latter very excellent observer must have been deceived by the imperfection of his glasses, which do not seem to have been adapted to so minute a structure, for his results, as published by Sir E. Home, have had the effect of retarding rather than of advancing our knowledge, by raising doubts as to the credibility of any conclusions founded on microscopical research. In 1832, Dr. Hodgkin and Mr. Lister§ re-discovered the transverse markings on the elementary fibre of voluntary muscle and of the heart, and pointed out, as Muys and Fontana had done, that their presence was a character by which this could be distinguished from the fibre of the uterus, bladder, &c, which latter they consequently denied to be muscular. Since then, many inquirers, both in this country and abroad, have taken up the subject with improved instruments. Among those who have arrived at conclusions similar to those of Fontana may be mentioned the names of Lauth, Muller, Schwann, and Henle. Others, however, have entertained very opposite and, as I believe, erroneous views of the composition of the fibre. Mandl|| conceives the cross markings to be produced by a spiral thread of areolar tissue investing the fibre, and Mr. Skey^[ describes them as an external * Some of these preparations were lately shown me by Baron Larrey, to whom they were presented by Prochaska himself, during tbe occupation of Vienna by the French, t ' Sur le Venin de la Vipere,' &c, 1781. + ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1818 and 1826. § ' Appendix to Translation of Dr. Edwards's work, ' De l'lnfluence des Agens physiques sur la Vie.' || ' Traite pratique du Microscope,' pp. 74 and 75, Paris, 1839. % 1 Philosophical Transactions,' 1837.LITERATURE OF MUSCULAR MOTION 275 structure, independent of the fibrilhe, which he believes to be arranged in band-like sets around a glutinous substance in the axis of the fibre. Ficinus* falls into the old error of Prochaska, of imagining the strise to be the result of minute flexures of the fibrilhe, and, like him, he confounds with them the secondary flexures of the whole fibre. Hence, says he, the appearance of globules or particles is false, and only exists during contraction. Other opinions still I have had occasion to allude to in the course of the article "Muscle," which, as before remarked, is founded on observations which have been now two years before the public.t All the best observers are agreed as to the existence of certain appearances, and the discrepancies we encounter in the interpretation of them ought not to bring discredit on all researches of this sort. They place, indeed, in a strong light the difficulty of the inquiry, and the necessity for repeated, varied, and unbiassed observation, with the best instruments we can command. But we are too familiar with conflicting and even opposite statements concerning visible facts, occurring daily under the eyes of everyone, to suppose it possible that any kind of investigation will ever be free from those causes of error, which lie in man's nature, in his own microcosm, and the effects of which can only be neutralized by the common consent of numerous independent observers. As for those difficulties, whatever they may be, which are inherent in the nature of the subject, we cannot doubt that they will be, in due time, appreciated and overcome. Some of the opinions concerning the nature of contraction, entertained by the earlier observers, have been already mentioned ; another, which seems to have been grafted on the doctrine of the vital spirits, was, that these spirits were directed into the fibres and distended them, thus causing them to tumify and shorten. Accordingly, some (as Kobert Hooke and Cowper) considered each fibre or fibrilla to be hollow; which need not excite surprise, when we find the great Mascagni J believing each to be a lymphatic vessel. The first hint of another very noted hypothesis is to be found in the 'Memoirs of the French Academy,' 1724:—L'Abbe de Molieres there says,§ " Les fibres charnues qui s'dtendent selon la longueur du muscle, et dont le raccour- cissement fait son action, se divisent en un grand nombre de petites fibres de meme nature longitudinales aussi, et qui sont li^es les unes aux autres par des filets nerveux transversaux disposes le long des fibres de distance en distance. De plus, les petites fibres charnues ne sont pas droites, mais pliees en zigszags, dont les angles se trouvent aux endroits, oil sont les filets transversaux." Hales|| examined the abdominal muscles of small living Frogs, and saw them thrown into zigzags during contraction, as he imagined ; but he mistook the uncontracted for contracted fibres, as I have * 1 De Fibrse Muscularis Forma et Structural Lipsise, 1836. f 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1840. J ' Prodromo della grande Anatomia—da Franc. Automarchie,' Firenze, 1819. § 'Malgaigne, Anat. Chirurgicale,' vol. i., p. 102, Paris, 1838. || ' Hsemastatics,' p. 59.276 BIBLIOGRAPHY. explained."" Peevost and Dumas, at a later period,! described the same zigzag flexure of the fibres during contraction, and further imagined it to be an electrical effect produced by the passage of the nerves across them at their angles of flexure. This doctrine was too captivating not to obtain very general credence, especially as it seemed to fall in with a notion, at that time very current among speculative physiologists, that the nervous influence is a form of electricity. But its validity has of late begun to be questioned; Professor Owen,J in small filarise and in a species of vesicularia, observed a fact opposed to it, viz., the bulging of the (unstriped) fibres near their centre, without their falling out of the straight line, in contraction. A similar fact was observed in the case of the (unstriped) muscles of the Polypifera, by Dr. A. Farre;§ and Dr. Allen Thomson, || on repeating the experiment of Hales and Prevost on the Frog, " observed single fibres continuing in contraction, and being simply shortened, and not falling into zigzag plicse; and he was led to suspect, from this and other circumstances, that the zigzag arrangement was not produced until after the act of contraction had ceased." M. Lauth, after a careful investigation, concludes^" that a fibre may shorten with or without zigzag inflection. Such, I believe, was the state of this question in 1840, when I published the observations,** on part of which the account of the nature of contraction, given in the present article, is principally based. In the following year I added ft a note, on the appearances met with in human muscle ruptured by tetanic spasm, and which seemed to me to prove that the conclusions I had previously drawn from the phenomena of the rigor mortis were true as regards the act of contraction, as it occurs in the living body. BIBLIOGRAPHY. To the following works may be added the several systematic treatises on descriptive anatomy, and on general anatomy and physiology :— Hooke, ' Posth. Works,' by Waller, 1707. ' Experiments and Observations of Robert Hooke,' &c, by W. Derham, 1726. Malpighi, ' De Bombycibus,' pp. 9, 10. Leeuwenhoek, ' Phil. Trans.,' 1674,1677, 1683, &c. ' Epist. Physiolog-.,' passim. De Heide, ' Experimenta circa sanguinis missionem, fibras motrices, urticam marinam,' &c. ' Amstelod.,' 1686 and 1698. Croone, ' De ratione motus musculorum,' Lond. 1664. Muys, " An Account of several observations concerning the Frame and Texture of the Muscles," 'Phil. Trans.,' 1714. ' De carnis musculosse structura,' Lugd. Bat., 1730. ' Investigatio fabricse, quee in partibus musculos component, extat.,' Lugd. Bat., 1741. Borelli, ' De * ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1840. ■j- ' Magendie's Journal,' 1825. X 1 Hunter's Works,' by Palmer, vol. iv., pp. 261, 262, note. § ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1838, pp. 394, 396. || Quoted by Owen, loc. citat. % ' L'Institut,' No. 73, quoted by Muller in his 'Physiology,' Baly's Translation, p. 888. ** ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1840, pt. ii. ft ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1841, pt. ii.BIBLIOGRAPHY. 277 motu animalium,' Ed. Neapoli, 1734. Cowpee, ' Myotomia Reformata,' " Introduct." Hauler, ' Element. Phys.,' lib. xi. Hales, ' Statical Essays/ Lond., 1741. Peochaska, ' De carne musculari,' Vindobon., 1778. Fontana, 'Traite sur le venin de la vipere,' Flor., 1781. J. Huntee, ' Croonian Lectures,' 1781. 'Works,' by Palmee, vol. iv., "Notes," by Owen, Lond., 1838. G. R. Teevieanus, ' Vermiscbte Schriften,' Gott., 1816 ; ' Beitrage znr Aufklarung,' &c. P. Mascagni, ' Prodromo della grande anatomia,' Firenze, 1819. Home and Bauer, ' Phil. Trans.,' 1818 and 1826. Milne Edwaeds, ' Memoire sur la struct, element.,' &c, Paris, 1823 ; ' Ann. des Sciences,' 1826. Peevost and Dumas, 'Magendie Journal de Pbysiologie,' 1825. Hodgkin and Listee, "Appendix" to a Translation of W. F. Edwards ' On tbe Influence of Physical Agents on Life'; and ' Annals of Philosophy,' 1827. Valentin, 'Histor. evolutionis syst. muse, prolusio.,' Wratislav., 1832; ' Ueber den Verlauf und die letzten Enden der Nerven.' F. 0. Emmert, 'Ueber Endigungsweise der Nerven in den Muskeln,' Bern., 1836. E. Buedach, 'Beitrag zur Mikroskopisch. Anatomie der Nerven,' Konigsburg, 1837. Roulin, 'Magendie Journal,' vol. i. G. H. Meyer, ' Diss. Inaug. de Muscul. in duct, efferent, gland.,' Berol, 1837. Krohn, 'Miiller's Archiv.,' Jahrg., 1837, Heft. 3, 4; 'Brit, and For. Med. Rev.,' April, 1838. Ficinus, 'De fibrse muscularis forma et structura,'Lipsise, 1836. Schwann, in ' Miiller's Physiology,'by Balt, Lond., 1837-41. Balt, in the same, pt. iv., description of plate. Lauth, ' L'Institut,' No. 73. Skey, 'Phil. Trans.,' 1837. Malgaigne, ' Anatomie Chirurg.,' vol. i. Mandl, 'Anatomie Microscopique,' 'Traite Pratique du Microscope,' Paris, 1839. Gulliver, "Observations on the Muse, Fibres of the cesoph. and heart, &c," ' Zoolog. Proceed.,' No. 81, 1839. Henle, ' Allgemeine Anatomie,' Soemmering, 6ter Band., 1841. Palicei, ' De musculosa cordis structura,' Wratisl., 1839. Baeey, 'Phil. Trans.,' 1839, 40, 41, 42. Bowman, 'Phil. Trans.,' 1840-1.279 THE PACINIAN BODIES. ' Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology,' Vol. III. Pacinian bodies, so named after Filippo Pacini. Professor of Anatomy at Pisa, who discovered them in 1830, and subsequently published two memoirs upon them. They are peculiar minute organs appended to the nervous system, and present an Arterial twig, ending in capillaries, which form loops in some of the intercapsular spaces, and one penetrates to the central capsule, b, The fibrous tissue of the stalk, prolouged from the neurilemma. n, Nerve-tube advancing to the central capsule, there losing its white substance, and stretching along the axis to the opposite end, where it is fixed by a tubercular enlargement. KG. 482.—PACINIAN CORPUSCLE, EROM THE MESENTERY OE A CAT. Intended to show the general construction of these bodies. The stalk and body, the outer and the inner system of capsules, with the central cavity, are seen. arrangement altogether novel and full of interest, though as yet their use is entirely unknown. The essential structure of these corpuscles appears to be the following. A single 2 pTHE PACINIAN BODIES. 280 tubular, or white nervous fibre leaves the fasciculus of which it forms a part, and carrying with it a process of the fibrous neurilemma, advances right into the centre of a series of concentric ovoidal capsules of fibrous membrane, through a channel which perforates them all, and which has its proper wall, to which every capsule is attached. All the capsules, except from five to twenty of the inner ones, have spaces between them containing a clear watery fluid. These spaces do not communicate with one another or with the channel in which the nerve runs. Each one is distended by its own fluid, and in the natural state is more or less tense, offering resistance to external pressure. The innermost capsule of all is an elongated nearly cylindrical cavity, somewhat larger at the further end, and always contains a clear fluid, which distends it and prevents its sides from falling together. The nerve- tube has the ordinary double dark contour as well as every other character of those found in the ordinary cerebro-spinal fibres until its entry into the central capsule. At that point it becomes less bulky, somewhat flattened (so that its section is oval instead of round), and in particular much paler. The dark border which has distinguished it 11, Pale fibre advancing into the further end of the central capsule. a, Conical swelling by which the nerve is fixed, b, Corpuscle of the inner capsule, c, Capsules of the internal system. I V FIG. 483.—EXTREMITY OF THE PALE NERVE-FIBRE IN THE INNER CAPSULE OF A PACINIAN BODY FROM THE MESENTERY OF A CAT. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. FROM HENLE AND KOLLIKER. hitherto now disappears, and if it were not for the transparency of the contents of the capsules its further course would be untraceable. It is, however, when fresh, and with a good light, distinctly seen to proceed along the very axis of the central capsule from one end to the other, and finally to be implanted by more or less of a swelling (fig. 483) into the further extremity of this central compartment. The originally dark border of the nerve-tube does not cease with absolute abruptness, but the two lines of the border coalesce in a somewhat sloping manner, and the pale continuation has merely a single bounding-line, and that so exceedingly thin as not to allow of being described as an investment distinct from the rest of the fibre. This line, as Henle and Kolliker have remarked, is more evident when the edge of the flattened fibre is towards the observer than when the flat surface is upwards, in which latter position it is sometimes altogether absent. Such is the general plan of the structure of these bodies. Their usual length is from -^Q-th to yfrth of an inch, and their stalk is often -y^-th of an inch long. Though usually oval, they are often more or less elongated and bent on themselves. Some- times the internal capsules only are bent, while the outermost are simply oval. In the human subject they are found in large numbers, detached or in clusters, in the281 THE PACINIAN BODIES. subcutaneous areolar and adipose tissues of the palm and sole in connection with the cutaneous nerves, as well as more sparingly in the same connection at other parts of the extremities. A few are also met with in the sympathetic plexuses ; and in the Cat in particular they are usually so abundant in the mesentery and omentum, as instantly to arrest the eye when these parts are spread before it. They are here indeed most favourably situated for examination. They are included merely between the duplicature of the transparent peritoneum, can be obtained in great numbers perfectly fresh, and admit of being inspected without the addition of any water or other medium. To the naked eye they here present a beautiful semi-transparent pearly lustre, with a whitish opaline streak along the axis, resulting from the greater proximity and density of the series of internal capsules. In some animals of this species they have appeared to me almost wanting. It is remarkable that in no instance have they been detected in connection with nerves purely motor, nor, it is affirmed, on the fifth nerve or the glosso-pharyngeal. The stalk consists, as has been said, of a production of the neurilemma enclosing a single nerve-tube. It sometimes happens that there are two nerve-tubes, but then there are two corpuscles on the single stem, either in close apposition, or actually enveloped by a few capsules common to both. The nerve-tube in the stalk is undulating, and being accompanied by white fibrous tissue is easily distinguished by its peculiar structure. The artery and vein supplying the corpuscle are also included in the stalk. The channel which the stalk occupies in its passage through the capsules, is conical and comes to a termination at the proximal end of the innermost capsule. It is furnished with a membranous wall, with which the fibrous tissue of the stalk is united on the inside and the several capsules on the other, and by this means the inter- capsular spaces are preserved closed, and their fluid retained. This wall usually presents irregularities of outline, and often a cellular appearance, where the capsules, and especially the inner ones, join it. It is perforated by the minute vessels as they enter some of the intercapsular spaces. (See fig. 482.) The capsules themselves are inelastic membranes, analogous probably to the white fibrous tissue, and furnished with clear transparent nuclei that project chiefly on the inner surface. This is true of all the capsules, but in the outer system or those thicker and stronger ones between which fluid intervenes, there is evidence of a double wall; for in addition to the clear double line which distinguishes all, these present also on their outside, when seen edgeways, a series of dots, which indicate a system of transverse or circular fibres, and, in fact, the corpuscle, when brought into focus, shows no other fibrillation than this transverse one. Almost all appearance of a fibrous texture is removed by acetic acid, so that the yellow or elastic fibre does not appear to form any portion of the capsular membranes. The outermost capsule, indeed, is invested with both the elastic and the inelastic fibres, but these are to be regarded as belonging rather to the areolar tissue in which the corpuscles are 2 p 2282 THE PACINIAN BODIES. imbedded, than to these organs themselves. The capsules are united together by the wall of the channel of the stalk. They are also joined here and there by partial membranous septa passing directly or obliquely across the intercapsular spaces, and which seem to be of the same nature as the capsules themselves. Pacini describes farther a union of the capsules at the distal end in the axis of the corpuscle, which is denied by Henle and Kolliker to exist. I have had, however, unequivocal evidence of its existence, especially between the inner capsules, when they have been artificially distended by water, although it often appears to cease towards the surface. When the end of the capsules is bent on itself, the line of this intercapsular union is less easy to trace. The small artery supplying the corpuscle subdivides in the channel of the stalk into its three, four, or more capillaries, which pierce the wall and enter the intercapsular spaces. After advancing in these for a variable distance they form loops, and return by a similar route to the small corresponding vein. In the larger corpuscles I have seen a little bunch of vessels formed near the further end by SJ FIG. 484.—ONE OF THE NERVES OP THE PALM WITH THE CORPUSCLES APPENDED, AND OF NATURAL SIZE. AFTER HENLE AND KOLLIKER. some of these capillaries. In most cases a single capillary accompanies the nerve-tube as far as the central capsule, and then passes for some way upon its wall, sometimes in a spiral direction. If a perfectly fresh corpuscle from the mesentery of a Cat be examined before the blood has drained off, the addition of a little water will occasionally induce a rapid movement of the contents of these minute vessels under the eye of the observer, by gaining entrance to their interior; and few objects are more beautiful than the miniature circulation thus artificially brought about for a brief period. The capillaries have their proper walls, furnished with nuclei. The central cavity, in size, and particularly in shape, is liable to much variety. It has.been already stated to be not unfrequently bent upon itself towards the further end; sometimes it is bifurcated, or, more correctly, branched, the offset then passing in a recurrent course either from the commencement or the middle part of its length. In this case the branch is surrounded by the same series ofTHE PACINIAN" BODIES. 283 internal close capsules, and external ones separated by fluid, which encircle the principal cavity, only accommodated to the irregular conformation. However the central cavity is modified, it always retains its transparent character, and on its inner surface exhibits very faintly marked elongated nuclei, which most probably belong to the wall of the inner capsule. There is little to add to the description of the nerve-tube already given. It is faintly granular in texture, and occasionally regains, at one or more points of its a, a, The internal capsules, b, b, Capsules of the external system, with intervening fluid. Corpuscles, as at c, are seen in all the capsules. The outer capsules show a double layer, d. e, Occasional form of corpuscle in the inter- capsular spaces, n, n, Connecting membrane between two capsules, o, Capillary vessel containing corpuscles or nuclei in its wall, and lying with p, a tubular nerve-fibre in q, the channel of the stalk, the fibrous tissue surrounding them not being represented ; the vessel divides into two branches, one of which perforates the wall of the channel of the stalk and enters an intercapsular space, and the other advances as far as the central capsule. The nerve has the double contour as far as r, where it enters the central capsule ; from that point it is pale and faint. This specimen represents an offset of the central cavity, and of the pale nerve at s. The stem continues its course, t, towards the further end of the central cavity, while the offset follows the curved axis of the subordinate cavity as far as v, where it ends in a bulb by which it is fixed, Several of the capsules are united together at as. FIG. 485.—PORTION OF A PACINIAN CORPUSCLE, FROM THE MESENTERY OF A CAT. MAGNIFIED ABOUT 300 DIAMETERS. course within the central capsule, the dark contour which it had lost on entering it. This is particularly the case when it follows a bend of the cavity, and certainly seems to indicate the presence there of a material elsewhere deficient. It is rare, however, to see this re-assumption of the dark border in any very well-marked degree. The mode of attachment of the end of the nerve-fibre varies, being generally by a single tubercle or conical swelling, sometimes by two, and sometimes even by three such. Whatever the number of branches, however, their aggregate thickness is about the same as that of the simple fibre from which they spring. Where the284 THE PACINIAN BODIES central cavity exhibits the offsets above-mentioned the pale nerve-fibre is also invariably branched, its subordinate branch always traversing the axis of the subordinate cavity, and being regularly fixed at its extremity. It is interesting to observe how accurately the nerve-fibre preserves its place in the axis of the central cavity, however abruptly that may be bent or branched, a fact which might be supposed to indicate some degree of viscidity in the clear substance through which it runs. Eespecting the function or use of the Pacinian corpuscles no satisfactory account has yet been given, nor even a plausible explanation offered. Their presence in so great abundance on the nerves of the palm and sole, and their absence from motor nerves, suggests the obvious enquiry, whether they may not be connected in some way with the sense of touch, or at least with the function of sensation, to which the fact of their concentration in such numbers in the splanchnic nerves of some animals as obviously answers in the negative. Undoubtedly, however, we may anticipate much from a more extended research into their connections with the several parts of the nervous system in man and animals, than the very recent date of their discovery has yet allowed. The speculation that they may be concerned in the phenomena of what is called animal magnetism is not to be passed over with contempt, if only because it has been hazarded by their distinguished discoverer, Pacini, who, in common with many other unprejudiced and not incapable observers, is inclined to believe in the reality of some of the less marvellous effects which popularly pass under that title, such, in particular, as the mesmeric somnolence and catalepsy. Yet so vague an hypothesis, perhaps, barely deserves to be placed in juxtaposition with the descriptive anatomy of the corpuscles. It will be more to the purpose to institute a brief comparison between these bodies and the electrical organs of the Torpedo, a description of which will be found under the head of "Animal Electricity." Since that article was written, however, further researches, and especially those of Savi,* have added some points of importance which it will first be necessary to notice. The prisms of the electrical organ, as Hunter described, are divided by very numerous horizontal diaphragms into spaces containing a thin fluid, and on these diaphragms the nerves and vessels of the organ are ultimately distributed in great abundance. Each of these superposed diaphragms consists of a layer, possibly double, in and not upon which the nerves ramify. The nerves of the electrical organ have never any ganglia formed upon them. Their tubules always have the double contour which marks the presence of the white substance of Schwann. The ramifications penetrate between the prisms, and each diaphragm receives tubular fibres at several points of its circumference, though Savi is doubtful whether these are derived from two or more tubules of the branch supplying them. In the diaphragm, however, they are uniformly spread * Savi, ' Etudes Anatomiques sur le systeme nerveux et sur 1'organe elecfariqne de la Torpille.' Vide Matteucci, ' Traite des phenomenes electro-physiologiques.' Paris, 1844.285 THE PACINIAN BODIES. out in a network with five or six-sided meshes, the sides of which are everywhere formed by a single tubule with double contour of the same diameter and structure as the tubules of the trunk of the nerve. If this network is supplied from several different tubules, these tubules must be described as inosculating to form it; if from a single tubule, this must be regarded as again and again branching dichotomously, and the branches repeatedly anastomosing. Whichever be correct, the existence of a true network of ultimate nerve-tubes with double contour is certainly a fact of much importance, and hitherto unique; and it appears to be satisfactorily established by the repeated accurate observations of Savi. The series of superposed membranes in the prisms of the electrical organs may have an analogy with the concentric capsules of the Pacinian bodies. Their separation by intervening fluid is another point of resemblance. But in their relation to the nerves they are quite unlike. In the one, each membrane has a plane network of nervous tubules in its substance; in the other a single nerve-fibre is placed in the axis of a series of concentric membranes. The condition of the nerves is also different. In the one the white substance of Schwann everywhere invests the nerve; in the other it is suddenly lost on entering the central capsule. The branching of the nerve-tubes in the electrical organ has a correspondence with the frequent tendency of the pale fibre of the Pacinian corpuscle to divide into two or more parts. On the whole, perhaps, the comparison may suffice to raise the question, whether the Pacinian corpuscles may not be organs designed to generate some kind of force, which the nervous communication with the centres may serve to connect either with volition or some emotional impulse or feeling.'" There is another set of organs, however, in the electric Torj)edo, the discovery of which we owe to Savi, and which bear a closer resemblance to the Pacinian corpuscles than the electric organs themselves. These are what he terms the follicular nervous apparatus, and which I shall briefly describe nearly in his own words.t " This apparatus is found bordering the anterior part of the mouth and nostrils, and extends over the surface of the anterior part of the electrical organs, and over the front half of their outer edge, where it rests upon the cartilage and aponeurotic coverings of the fin. Some parts of the apparatus are found on the back, but the greater portion on the ventral surface of the animal. It consists of extensive linear series of follicles, or closed membranous cells with double walls filled with a gelatinous fluid, and enclosing a small amorphous granular mass, which nearly resembles the amorphous grey matter of the cerebral hemispheres. A nervous branch gives some fibres to this granular mass, while other similar fibres united into bundles pass out of the follicle, penetrate the grey mass of the adjoining follicle, and mingle with its nerve. * Henle and K5lliker endeavoured to elicit evidence of an electric discharge from the Pacinian bodies of the Cat's abdomen, bat without success, t Op. tit;, p. 332.286 THE PACINIAN BODIES. " The nerves distributed to this apparatus come exclusively from the fifth pair, and more particularly from the branches springing from the anterior portion of the root. Each follicle (fig. 486) is of a spheroidal form, slightly compressed on the side which adheres to the neighbouring follicle, and its diameter is about -^th of an inch. I have found these dimensions the same in animals of very different size. These follicles are never free or floating in the gelatinous fluid so abundant in these fishes: on the contrary, they are always firmly fixed, as if with a special view to their security, for they are planted on unyielding aponeurotic expansions like that of the muzzle, or else on fibrous bands extending along the fm, and having no other use. When the gelatinous fluid which envelops these follicles is examined under the microscope, it is seen to contain numerous fibres passing in various directions, and fixed to the surface of the follicles. "Each follicle is formed of two membranes (/ and g) which adhere together on the side towards the fibrous band which supports the organ, whilst on the opposite Branch of fifth pair of nerves, b, Twigs going to the organ and passing through c c, the fibrous band, d, The nerve as it lies on e, the granular mass. / and g, The inner and the outer capsules, containing tluid. Jc, Anastomosing filament from the preceding follicle. I, Anastomosing filament to the succeeding follicle. FIG. 486.—ONE OP THE FOLLICULAR NERVOUS ORGANS OF THE ELECTRICAL TORPEDO. MUCH MAGNIFIED AND SLIGHTLY COMPRESSED. FROM SAVT. side they are separated by about a third of the vertical diameter of the follicle. These organs may be easily examined by a very slight magnifying power, it being only necessary in the first place to remove the investing gelatinous substance, and then to subject them to moderate compression for the display of their interior. In a follicle thus compressed, we observe first the cut portion of the tendinous band cc, then the outer membrane enclosing the other, in which is the rounded granular mass e already mentioned. This latter seems to rest upon the lower wall of the internal membrane. The external membrane adheres by its lower border to the fibrous band beneath it in such a way, that between this external wall of the follicle and the internal is left a space, in which the nervous ramification d advances and adheres to the rounded mass of granular substance. li In the follicles of the longitudinal series of the fin, of which we here spea,k, the nervous twig is derived from the fifth pair and passes first through a slit in the tendinous band. After passing this aperture it bends underneath the granular287 THE PACINIAN BODIES. mass, and again emerges at the base of the follicle, but at the opposite side from that at which it entered. It is remarkable that the nerve is much thinner at its exit, and reduced to an exceedingly delicate filament (/), which proceeds along the tendinous band to the next follicle, penetrating its wall and joining its nerve at the point of its flexion under the granular mass (k). " On examining under the microscope the rounded granular mass, made flat by the compressor, and after the removal of the membranes of the follicle, we see the nerve running lengthwise over it from end to end, the anastomosing branch coming from the preceding follicle (k) and the very delicate filament which proceeds to that next in order (I). We further remark that the nerve of the follicle, in its course along the granular mass, gives off a great number of elementary fibres, which disseminate themselves through the mass and thus reduce the nerve to so small a size. Sometimes I have fancied that these fibres formed loops and returned; but I have never obtained a clear view of their termination. I am no less doubtful regarding the course of the elementary fibres of the anastomosing branch coming from the preceding follicle. Sometimes I have seen these fibres return towards the slit in the tendinous" band and rejoin the nerve in order to regain the centre. In other cases I have seen these fibres pursue their primitive direction, and pass on with the rest towards the opposite end of the granular mass. Hence I imagine that the fibres of the anastomosing bundle do not all follow the same course, and that while some advance into the granular mass, others turn back towards the centre through the slit in the fibrous band." " It occasionally happens that two nervous twigs pass from the main branch to the same follicle. When this happens, there are always two distinct granular masses." M. Savi then describes accurately the arrangement of the several series of these follicles in the Torpedos which he examined, an account of which is not necessary for our present purpose. In one example he found that the follicles amounted in all to two hundred and fourteen. We cannot adduce these remarkable and peculiar structures as at present throwing any light on the function of the Pacinian corpuscles, since we must confess with M. Savi that as yet we are entirely ignorant both of their real nature and use. Nevertheless the resemblance is such as, it is hoped, will warrant the introduction of the preceding account, which is new in this country, and very interesting in itself. It is unnecessary to recapitulate the several points of similarity and difference, which, after the detailed description of each now offered, may be readily apprehended by the reader himself. It only remains that we should direct attention to the very admirable memoir of Henle and Kolliker on this subject. They corroborated the principal results of Pacini, and added many most valuable observations which the use of higher powers of the microscope and perhaps greater experience in research had enabled them to make. These observations M. Pacini has recently informed me he has himself almost entirely confirmed. An excellent abstract of their labours appeared in the 2 QTHE PACINIAN BODIES. 288 British and Foreign Medical Eeview' for January, 1845, and in the following April Dr. Todd and myself gave an account of these structures, drawn up from original observations and containing some new results, though on the whole confirmatory of those previously published. See the ' Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' vol. i., p. 395. It is right to add that MM. A. G. Andeal, Camus, and Laceoix met with these bodies in 1833, and that they were noticed subsequently by Ceuveilhiee and Blandin in their respective works on descriptive anatomy, but without any real light being- thrown on their nature or internal structure.