t 392 ] CUR together till the fowl is tender; then season with salt, white pepper, and Cayenne. The fowl should be served up with the soup. CUBVATURE OF THE SPINE. Upon this, perhaps,morewant of unanimity of practice exists among medical men than upon any other disease or defect to which the human body is subject. Some employ mechanical supports, some gym- nastic exercises, others place the patient upon her back, a fourth set keep her upon her stomach, and we might enumerate other eccentric modes of treatment. It would be in vain for us either to endeavour to reconcile these contradictions or to select from among them, bijt we shall content ourselves by quoting the following from Mr. Abernethys lecture upon the subject. " Distortions of the vertebral column are not diseases, they are deformities. It is custon^ary to attribute them as arising from the same state of health which rickets arise from, but I do not think that that is a fair way of viewing the sub- ject. Slight things will produce a deviation from the proper direction of the vertebral column. You never saw any one who had a complaint in the hip who was not distorted in the back. The standing upon one leg will occasion a distortion in the back. I cannot stand upon my left leg, for instance, upon any other terms than those of inclining to the right; and if I am to continue in this posture, such is the constructure of the back substance, as to occasion a springing out and augmenting of bulk on the one side, so that this is a cause rendering a temporary distortion, and in continuing tc recline in that way the dis- tortion becomes permanent. Now, therefore, the habit of standing on one leg will occasion young people to grow awry. If I were to lean over as it were upon my right shoulder what would be the consequence ? Why, to balance the weight of my body I must twist my spine and incline the loins to the left side, and therefore cause a de- viation to the left side. Now, suppose a curva- ture to take place, and that that curvature was on the right side, if the weight were put on it is it possible that the head could be supported in a straight line from the pelvis? It is not possible; and the first curvature induces another curvature, and the next another, and so they go on, and they are all consequences of one original curve. It is very curious to attend to what slight causes will sometimes lead to the original curve, and causes which we do not easily perceive. " In my own family a child young and active —and I do not see those curvatures happening except where there -is some constitutional dis- order—I say, a girl of this kind became awry. I saw the child when I had an opportunity, and I observed that she had got one shoulder-strap very often down, which she was continually pulling up; and I said to her mother, ' If you allow that to go on, thau shoulder will heconiA warped as sure as you 're alive. Let the gown he made in another way, and don't let her always be twisting herself to keep up that shoulder-strap.' The mother said, ' Oh! don't take any notice of it, and let it pass on for a time.' Then I began to abuse the fashions that had been the cause of those shoulder-straps being made in such a way ; but in the course of a month the reason appeared why the shoulder- strap did not stop on that shoulder—it appeared that that shoulder had sunk down about an inch lower than the other. I then told her to walk before me, and then to stop, and I observed her particularly, and I found that she was in the habit of standing and resting always on one leg. I then began to ask her if there were any sores about her feet, any sores about her toes, any pains in her leg, or anything wrong with it, and. she said no. I said, ' I should like to see you hop : hop round the room, and then stand.' She did it, and did it very well. ' Now,' said I, ' hop round the room on the other leg. She attempted it, and she took a few hops, and then she was obliged to walk, because that leg was not capable of supporting her. She had been clearly in the habit of standing on the one leg, and by having disused the other it became a weak limb. Now, by setting her frequently to hop round the room on the weak leg, very fre- quently until she could hop on it as well as on the other, both shoulders became of the same height, and the shoulder-strap of her gown never slipped off again ; but I am quite sure she would have been awry if she had not lived in a sur- geon's house. ." I tell parents that I have any concern with that they must avoid all the causes which have produced the original curvature. I try to suggest what those curvatures are, and then I tell them that they are to lie down as much as possible, and to take the weight off the pillar which has yielded, because, if the column has yielded, whatever weight is placed upon it will con- siderably increase the curve. I hear medical men say you had better put weights on your head and carry them about with you, because, say they, people who carry large weights on their heads or shoulders, such as milk-pails, have straight backs ; but I say weight on the head must be very injurious, therefore I tell them to lie down, to avoid the causes which in- crease it, and to lie in a horizontal way; and many say you should lie in a manner so as to extend the vertebral column. That can never be done. Lie down, therefore, in a horizontal way, and you take off the weight from the curve; but I would by no means deprive the patient from taking that degree of active exercise which is conducive to health, because I say there is