[ 281 ] CHE CHE with no other sustenance than that produced by gradually dissolving a little of this gum in the mouth. The wood is hard and tough; it is used by turners in the manufacture of chairs, and stained to imitate mahogany. From the ripe black cherries the Swiss distil a very agreeable liquor, or ardent spirit, marasquina, by the sale of which to the French and Ger- mans they annually derive considerable profit. For preserving this fruit during the winter we communicate the following recipe, inserted in Hochheimer's German work on " Domestic Economy:"—" Take, in the proportion of 2lbs. of sour cherries, ^Ib. of fiae loaf sugar, and 1 pint of white wine vinegar; boil the two last, and skim off the impurities from the top ; then let the liquor stand till it becomes lukewarm. Meanwhile, prepare a coarse powder, consisting of 2 drachms of cinnamon and 1 drachm of cloves ; break the stalks of the cherries in the middle, 80 as to leave half of their length for the jar, into which they must be carefully put in layers, strewing a little of the spice between each stratum, pouring the liquor above mentioned on the top, and securing the whole from the access of air." With respect to their physical effects, cherries may be divided into sweet, subacid, and pulpy. The first kind, though the most palatable, are the least wholesome, as they readily ferment, and produce flatulency in weak stomachs ; the second are the most antiseptic; an^ the third the most nourishing, but digested with some difficulty.: Hence we would preferably recom- mend the subacid cherries as an excellent article of domestic medicine in the true scurvy, in putrid fevers, and the dysentery, as likewise to those persons who are liable to obstructions in the alimentary canal. With this intention they, may be eaten in considerable quantities, and frequently from ^Ib. to lib. each time, but particularly on an empty stomach. Nor will they be found less salutary to constitutions whose bile is vitiated, whose stomach is troubled with foul eructations, and who are afflicted with offensive breath. All such persons should eat them freely. For similar reasons dried cherries form an excellent article of diet in acute or inflammatory disorders, where they should be used both in substance and in decoctions, which are equally cooling and antiseptic. CHERRY BRANDY (Black). Pick and bruise 8 lbs. of black maroons and the same quantity of small black cherries ; let them stand for two months in a cask with 6 gallons of brandy, 2 lbs. of crushed sugar, and 1 quart of sack, well stirred together. At the end of that time it may be diawn off and bottled. CHERRY CAKES. Cut lib. of tart paste in half, and roll it out thin; chop preserved cherries into small pieces, and drop them on the paste; egg them round carefully, turn the paste over them, and press them gently together; then with a gigging-iron cut them into half circles, prick, and wash them over with egg. Bake them on a well-buttered tin in a quick oven, CHERRY CORDIAL. Place layers of black cherries and powder sugar alternately in a stone jar that is broader at the bottom than at the top until quite full; then pour on them spirits of wine in the proportion of half a pint to two gallons ; stop it as closely as possible, and bury it for six months, when it may be strained and bottled. Keep it tightly corked. CHERRY FRITTERS. Cut some large sheets of wafers into pieces large enough to hold a preserved cherry (liquid), drain the latter on a sieve, and then wrap them one by one in the wafer, one piece at the top and one piece at the bottom. Having slightly wetted the wafers, press the edges together, lay them on a sieve without touching each other, and leave them to dry. Make a light batter, in which put brandy. Madeira, and melted butter; dip the cherries in this, drain, and fry them to a nice colour in a moderately hot pan; then drain them again, sprinkle fine sugar over, and serve them. CHERRY FRITTERS ALA DAUPHINE. Pick fib. of fine cherries, and boil them five or six times with J lb. of powder sugar: take out the cherries, drain them, and boil the sugar a la nappe; then put in the cherries again, and leave them to cool. In the meantime roll out lib. of brioche paste; make your fritters as directed for Fritters a la Dauphine, and put five or six cherries in each. Fry them of a nice colour, glaze, and serve them quickly. CHERRY ICE. Take the stones and stalks from 2 lbs. of ripe cherries, bruise, and set them on the fire with a little water and ^ lb. of sugar. When they have boiled pass them through a hair sieve into a.i earthen pan. Pound a hand- ful of kernels, and put them in a basin with the juice of 2 lemons ; add to the cherries lib. of sugar au petit lisse, and strain on them the lemon-juice and kernels. Mix the whole to- gether, and put it in a sahotiere with pounded ice. Work the cherries up with it well until it has set, and then place it in glasses. CHERRY JAM. Having stoned and boiled 3 lbs. of fine cherries, bruise them, and let the juice run from them ; then boil together ^Ib. of red currant juice and ^ lb. of loaf sugar; pu the cherries into these whilst they are boiling, and strew on sugar. Boil all together very fast for half an hour, and then put it into pots. When cold put on brandy papers. CHERRY JELLY. Having taken the stalks and stones from 2 lbs. of dark red, fleshy cher-