FIS ns [ 504 ] i lb. of butter with flour, and brown it; then add to it 1 lb. of the best anchovies cut small, six blades of mace pounded, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, some savory, thyme, basil, knotted marjoram, a little parsley, and sliced horse- radish ; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of strong gravy; simmer the whole gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and put it into bottles for use. The proper way to use it is by putting some of it into the butter while melting. FISH SAUCE, DUTCH. Put i\h. of butter into four spoonsful of water, dredge in a little flour, chop three anchovies, add two spoonsful of vinegar, scrape a little horseradish, and boil the whole together; then strain it through a sieve, and send it up hot. FISH SAUCE, EXCELLENT. Put a pint of remarkably fine port wine into a tin saucepan, with a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut catsup, twelve anchovies, with the liquor belonging to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five shallots, some Cayenne pepperaccordingto taste, 3 ozs. of scraped horseradish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonsful of made mustard. Let the whole boil gently till the rawness is taken off; then put it into small bottles for use. They must be corked very closely, and sealed at the top. FISH SAUCE, WHITE. Simmer to the quantity required an anchovy, a glass of white wine, a bit of horseradish, two or three blades of mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pint of water; strain it, put in two spoonsful of cream, and a large piece of butter mixed well with some flour, and keep stirring till it boils; add a little catsup, and squeeze in a little lemon juice •when off the fire. More wine may be added if agreeable. FISH SAUSAGES. Prepare in the same proportions as for pork sausages, pound, and fill into eel skins, or roll and glaze them, or crum them with grated ham, bacon, Parmesan or any other cheese, with a little sugar and nut- meg or cloves. These are handsome supper or breakfast dishes; but all such sausages look better in balls, or a little flattened, and served hot in a napkin. FISH, SEASON FOR. Upon this subject we know of no better authority than the Fish- mongers' Company. In their hall are eight excellent paintings of fish, with the dates of their being in season. They are as follows :— No. I. 1. A codlin, November, December, January. 2. A Scotch lobster, October. 3. A barbel, September. 4. A good jack pike, in most monthai ' 5. A maid, all the year. 6. A gi-ey mullet, October. 7. A sole, all the year. 8. A red gurnet, September and October. 9. The gold and silver eel, all the year. 10. The larger river flounder, March, August, December, January. 11. A tench, November and December. 19. A small roach, January and September. 13. A small dace, January and September. 14. A green smelt, September. 15. A gudgeon, most months. 16. A lamprey, September. 17. A dab, October, November, December, January. 18. A small river flounder, most months. 19. A horse-mackerel, September. 20. A common mackerel, September. 21. A Feversham oyster, from October to January. No. IT. 1. A turbot, March and most months. 2. A haddock, October, November, December, 3. A sea crab, March, April, May. 4. A green river carp, January. 5. A sea crayfish, November, April, May. 6. A whiting, October, November, December, 7- A perch, October. 8 A herring, May, June, September. 9. A Scotch haddock, November. 10. A shrimp, all the year. 11. A cockle, December, January, February. 12. A Colchester oyster, from October to February. No. III. 1. A cod, November, December, January, February. 2. A ling, November and December. 3. A river pike, most months. 4. A sea flounder, December, January, Febru- ary, March. 5. A weaver, December. 6. A pouting, November, December. 7. A char, December, Januaiy, February, March. 8. A scallop, in mackerel season. 9. A green Walfleet oyster, November, De- cember, January. 10. A muscle, December. 11. A sprat, November, December, January. No. IV. 1. A halibut, January, February, March 2. A golden pond carp, most months. 3. A greyling or Humber, January. 4. A golden smelt, January. 5. A chub, February.