CAK CAK [ 205 ] very tliin, sprinkle it with a piece of vanilla grated very fine, then form your cake and pro- ceed the same as for Campagne Plum Cake. CAKE, POLISH. Take some puff-paste and form it into a crust J inch thick ; cut it into square pieces, moisten the surface of them, and gather up the four corners of each and press them together. Have ready some small round moulds, dip them in warm water, and put them through the middle of the cakes ; then put them in the oven. When they are three parts done take them out, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them ; then let them finish baking. When done take out the moulds, and fill with whatever sweetmeat you think proper. CAKE, PORTUGUESE. Blanch and pound ^Ib. of almonds; mix with them the juice of 3 oranges with their peel very finely chopped up ; put this preparation into a pan and add to it some powdered sugar, 2 ozs. of very fine flour, and the yolks of 6 eggs. Beat up the whites, and mix them also with the other ingredients ; then take a long mould or paper case, butter it, and put in your preparation. Let it bake in a moderate oven. When done cut them into small squares or lozenges, glaze them, and put them in a stove to dry. CAKE, POTATO CHEESE. Pound in a mortar 5 ozs. of potatoes with 4 ozs. of fresh butter, and the same quantity of pounded loaf sugar, the grated peel and juice of half a lemon, 3 well beaten eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of brandy ; mix all well together. Line the patty pans with paste, fill them three parts full, and bake them in a moderate oven. CAKE, POUND. Take of dried and sifted flour, sifted loaf sugar, fresh butter, cleaned and dried currants, 1 lb. each, and I'i eggs; then whisk the yolks and the eggs separately, while another with the hand beats the butter to a cream ; and as the froth rises on the eggs add it to the butter, and continue so doing till it is all beaten in; mix the flour and sugar together and add them by degrees. The last thing mix in the currants together with a glass of brandy. It will require to be beaten during a whole hour. Bake it in a buttered tin. CAKE, POUND (Ginger). Cut up in a pan I lb. of butter ; mix with it 1 pint of West India molasses, and 1 tea-cupful of brown sugar. If in winter set it over the fire till the butter has become soft enoagh to mix easily with the molasses and sugar; then take it off, and stir them well together. Sift into a pan 1 lb. of flour. In another pan beat 5 eggs very lightly. Add gradually the beaten eggs and the flour to the mixture of butter, sugar, and molasses, with 2 large table-spoonsful of ground ginger, and 1 heaped tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon. Then stir in 1 glass of brandy, and lastly, I small tea-spoonful of saleratus or subcarbonate of soda melted in a very little milk. Stir the whole very hard, transfer the mixture to a buttered tin pan, and bake it in a moderate oven from two to three hours, in proportion to its thickness. This cake will be much improved by the addition of 1 lb. of sultana or seedless raisins, well dredged with flour to prevent their sinking, and stirred in gradually at the last. You may add, also, the yellow rind of a lemon or orange grated finR. CAKE, POUND (Rice-flouk). Weigh 1 lb. of broken-up loaf sugar of the best quality. Upon some of the largest lumps rub off the yellow rind of 3 large, ripe lemons, that have been previously rolled under your hand, on a table, to increase the juice. Then powder fine all the pound of sugar. Cut up into a deep pan 1 lb. of the best fresh butter; mix with it the powdered sugar, and stir them together with a wooden spaddle till perfectly light. Squeeze the juice of the lemons through a strainer into a bowl; mix with it half a grated nutmeg, and add to it the butter and sugar. Sift 1 lb. (or 1 quart) of rice-flour into a pan; beat 12 eggs till they are smooth and thick ; then stir the beaten egg and the rice- flour alternately into the butter and sugnr, a little of each at a time. Having stirred the whole long and hard, put the mixture into a buttered tin pan that has straight or upright sides; set it im- mediately into a well-heated oven, and bake it thoroughly. It will require four or five hours, in proportion to its thickness. When done it will shrink a little from the sides of the pan, and a twig from a corn-broon or a wooden skewer, plunged down to the bottom of the cake, will come out dry and clean. When cool ice it, adding a little rose water or lemon-juice to the icing. Heap the icing first on the centre of the top, and then, with a broad-bladed knife (dipped occasionally into a bowl of cold water), spread it evenly all over the surface of the cake. Instead of lemons you may use, for flavouring this cake, the yellow rind of 2 oranges grated on the sugar, and the juice of 3 mixed with the spice. Orange rind being stronger and more powerful to the taste than that of lemon, a small quantity of it will suffice. You may bake the above mixture in little tins, like queen cakes, taking care to grease theni with fresh butter. Tins mixture will make a nice pudding, using only | lb. of rice-flour, but the above quantities of all the other ingredients. Bake it in a china or hand- some white ware, as it must go to table in the dish it is baked in. CAKE, POUND (Seed). Take 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of finely-powdered sugar, 1 lb. of butter, 8 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, as much caraway seeds as you like. First beat up the butter to a cream with your hands, beating it one way lest' it on; then by degrees beat in your eggs, sugar.