[ 5 ] AIR AIR These proportions are found in every quarter of the globe, whatever the character of the locality may be, and at whatever elevation the air may be examined. The nitrogen seems to have no active property; it apparently dilutes the other gas, and renders it less stimulant; but, by itself, it can neither support combustion nor respira- tion. A lighted taper introduced into a jar containing it is immediately extinguished, and it is equally fatal to animal life. The oxygen gas, which constitutes the fifth part of the Avhole bulk of the atmosphere, is the active element; it is the great supporter of combus- tion, and it is the essential element which affects the blood during the process of respiration. Exposed to its action in the cells of the lungs, the dark hue of the venous blood is converted into a brilliant red. In respiration about 20 cubic inches of air are inspired, and about the same amount of air is expired; and, if we estimate the number of respirations in the minute as ] 6 (some make them 20), nearly 20,000 cubic inches pass through the lungs in an hour; or 266^ cubic feet are transmitted through that organ in the course of twenty-four hours. Now, if, for the sake of simplicity, our readers will assume the amount of air taken into the lungs at each inspiration to be 15 cubic inches, they will be more easily enabled to understand what is to follow. The air, then, consists of 12 cubic inches of nitrogen, and 3 cubic inches of oxygen, omitting the fractional portion, of the carbonic-acid gas always present in the atmosphere. On its being returned or expired the quantity of nitrogen remains unchanged; the quantity of oxygen, however, has been altered, for now there are only 2 cubic inches of it, the remaining 15tli cubic inch being entirely composed of carbonic-acid gas—a deadly air, when unmixed, instantly fatal to combus- tion and to animal life. Independently of its chemical properties, air that has been long unchanged, and in which one or more human bodies have been confined, is possessed of qualities highly dangerous and even destructive, as we see in many instances in jails, ships, and other confined apartments. Hence the necessity and propriety of free ventilation in houses of every description; of daily admitting a thorough current of air into sleeping rooms, and, indeed, into every room of a house. From the neglect of this ventilatia)^ arise the dangerous and malignant fevers in the confined and ill-ventilated dwellings in the closes, alleys, and courts, of large towns. Since attention has been called to this circumstance, how seldom do we hear of the ship or the jail- fevers ! Though the fever, which was formerly 80 fatal in ships and jails, is still lament- ably prevalent somewhere or other, and though we still hear of towns or tracts of territory being visited with its depopulating scourge, it is not in ships or jails that it is suspected to take its rise, but in the abodes of slothful and squalid poverty, where no judicious and directing mind enforces the necessity of ventilation and cleanliness. Even in the apartment where a patient is in bed, the fear of his catching cold should not prevent us from occasionally changing the air of it, by openii^g the doors and windows for a few minutes at a time, taking care not to expose the sick person to the current of air, but closing the curtains and using such other ])recautions as common sense will readily suggest. For the chemical methods of destroying con- tagion, see Fumigation. Many circumstances connected with air, which chemistry is unable to trace or explain, are much to be attended to in a medical point of view. Under the article Ague, we have already mentioned the bad air from marshy grounds; and we have also to mention that the air seems to carry the infection of other diseases, as small- pox, measles, hooping-cough, scarlet fever, &c. The air of certain places is supposed justly to have an influence in giving a tendency to certain diseases, or to bring them on directly. The croup is frequent in cold, damp situations, exposed to the east wind or near the sea. The sea air is unfavourable in certain states of consumption, or in affections of the breast, which would probably end in that disease. The mild, equable air of the countiy, unloaded with the endless variety of matters mixing with the air in the neighbourhood of large towns, is favourable to recovery from many ailments, as indigestion, dropsy, jaundice, breast complaints, asthmas, and the wasting disease of children, as also to that feeble state of constitution which has not received any appropriate name. It is remarkable that some persons in asthma are not better in air which we should think the purest. Change of air, even to a worse, has been found of service in hooping-cough; but it is useless to attempt a cure by this at an early period of the disease, as it is hardly possible by any means to prevent it from running on a con- siderable time. In general, it is hardly worth while to try a change of air till it has continued distinctly at least a month or six weeks. A good deal of the influence of the air on the skin and lungs must depend on its degree of moisture or dryness. When there is much watery vapour in the air, it is less able to receive more, and the perspirable matter from the skin not being carried off, we shall appear to perspire more, though in reality the perspiration is less. In like manner, the watery vapour which is continually thrown off by the lungs is not carried