GRA [ 575 ] G RA regular fermentation, of forming good and per- fect wine. " The case ig as applicable to the grape as to the gooseberry. Long ago experiments were made in France by several chemists with green grapes and sugar with complete success. I have repeated these experiments and varied them with the best effects. The produce is varied with the management, and the results of the trials have been wines resembling Cham- pagne, Grave, Rhenish, and Moselle, and of qualities so perfect, that the best judges and wine-tasters have not been able to distinguish them from foreign wines. The grapes may be used in any state, however immature. When even but half grown and perfectly hard they succeed completely. It is evident that wines made on this principle will be more expensive than when made from ripe grapes, as a sufBcient quantity of sugar must be used to compensate for the deficiency of the natural sugar of the grape; but even then they are no more costly than currant or gooseberry wines, while at the same time their superiority is beyond all com- parison. The hardest grapes will produce a wine of the strength of white Hermitage with a proportion of 3 lbs. of sugar to the gallon, and the expense will be trifling compared to the value of the produce. It might be supposed that these wines would necessarily be devoid of flavour; but this is by no means the case, since all the specimens which were made under my direction were characterised by flavours as genuine and decided as those of foreign wines to which they proximated. I have little doubt that under due management on a large scale, as well as with sufiicient age, wines of the Hock quality could equally well be produced here in the same way. Many trials must yet be made before we can hope to appreciate the extent of our resources in this manufacture. "It is more than probable that difl"erent grapes, even in this immature state, would pro- duce different wines ; but these trials must be left to the efforts of individuals, and to the necessarily slow progress of experiment. With regard to the management, it must be founded on the operations followed in wine countries. It is, in the first place, obvious that the grapes should be suffered, from motives of economy, to remain on the vine while there is any hope of gaining an accession either of strength or sweetness. They should then be carefully sepa- rated from the stems, those which are mouldy or rotten being at the same time rejected. Some judgment will be required in proportioning the fruit to the water in the first instance, and to the sugar in the second. I have said before that the grape, when ripe, consists of sugar combined with vegetable extractive matter, or the fermenting principle and certain salts, be- sides the astringent and flavouring matter. As the colour is not developed in the immature grape it need not be noticed here; but the proportions of these ingredients vary materially according to the state of maturity. As a great part of saline and other constituents of the grape appears to be converted into sugar during the progress of maturation, it is plain that, weight for weight, there will be more of the principles contained in the immature than in the mature fruit. To form, therefore, a must of such a quality as shall resemble the natural must of ripe fruit, it is necessary that water should be added to the immature juice for the purpose of diluting, and thus diminishing the proportions of those saline matters which would otherwise confer on the wine a degree of harsh- ness difficult to overcome. As it is impossible to give positive rules to meet the infinitely vary- ing and undefinable degree of maturity in which the grapes must often be used, and as such rules would, in fact, but tend to mislead, I shall content myself with laying down some general principles, leaving the application to the ingenuity and observation of the operator. If the object be to produce a wine Champagne, or the white wines of Bordeaux, a small propor- tion of crude grape will be required. Grapes barely half grown require, for the production of wines of this class, to be used in the proportion of equality to water. If they are more grown the proportion may be increased; if less, it may be diminished. If the intention be to make a wine resembling Hock, the proportion of grapes must be materially increased, and the wine, at first hai'sh, will by a few years' residence in the cask, undergo that amelioration which time alone can give. To the proportions which I have described varying quantities of sugar may be applied. " A proportion of 2 lbs. in a gallon of mix- ture will yield a very light wine, and of no great durability, resembling, under the proper treatment, the inferior classes of Champagne wines, and under a different mode a wine re- sembling Barsac and the lighter of the Bor- deaux wines. An increase of sugar to 3 lbs. will yield a wine equal in strength to the best sorts of champagne, or, if fermented to dryness, to the strongness of the white wines of Bor- deaux. Larger doses of sugar will doubtless yield wines of different qualities; but of such proportions I cannot speak from experience. I may only caution the operator who shall under- take these trials that larger quantities of sugar require larger proportions of fruit, if it be his intention to work the wine to dryness, as the quantity of fruit above mentioned is barely suf- ficient to convert the proportion of 3 lbs. above