[ 459 ] EGG EGG and mix tliem with a good Ijit of butter, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; put it into the bottom of your paste, with some good butter, what quantity of hard eggs you choose cut into quarters, and some raw ones beaten up as for an omelet; finish the pie as usual. You may add caper sauce when ready, or a cream sauce. EGG TOAST. Take a glass of thick cream, some sugar, two or three macaroons pounded, a few almonds, and a little grated lemon; give them a boil; then add the yolks of eight and the whites of three eggs ; beat the whole up Dver a slow fire, and lay on very thin slices of ried bread ; sprinkle sugar over, and serve. EGG WIKE, Beat up an egg, mix with it a spoonful of coJd water, and set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils pour a little of it to the egg by degrees till the whole is in, stir- ring it well; then return the whole into the saucepan, set it over a g'-ntle fire, and stir it one way for a minute, not longer; for if it boil or the egg is stale it will curdle. Serve with toast. EGGS : To Boil. Have the water boiling, and look at your watch as you put the eggs in. Two minutes and a half will cook them to please some persons. If you want them very soft two minutes will be sufficient, or, if less soft, thr^e minutes. If you wish them hard, as for lettuce, let them boil ten minutes. Spoons that have been used in eating eggs should be put into water immediately, as the egg tarnishes them. EGGS: To Boil for a Sal.4d. Boil two eggs for twelve minutes, and then put them in a basin of cold water for a few minutes. The yolks must be quite hard and cold, otherwise they will not properly incorporate with the other ingredients. Rub them through a sieve with ^ wooden spoon, and mix them with a table- epoonful of water or fin^e double cream ; then add two table-spoonsful of oil or melted butter ; when these are well mixed together by degrees add a tea-spoonful of salt or powdered lump sugar, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard. When these are smoothly united add very gradually three tea-spoonsful of vinegar, rub it with the other ingredients till thoroughly incor- porated, cut up the whites of the eggs, and garnish the top of the salad with it. Let the sauce remain at the bot om of the bowl, and do not stir up the salad ti 1 it is to be eaten. EGGS : To Choose, in choosing eggs hold them to the light; if they are clear they are fresh; if they are thick they are stale; if they have a black spot attached to the sheL' they are worthless. Eggs sl^ould be new, or not mor,e than twenty-four hours old, when they are stored, else their flavour cannot be relied on. The safest mode of clioosing thera is by holdr ing then? to the light of a candle. Unless an egg is perfectly fresh it is unfit for any purpose. You may try the freshness of eggs by putting them in a pan of cold water. Those that sink the soonest are the freshest. Eggs may be preserved a short time by putting them in a jar of salt and lime water, with the small ends downwards. The salt should not after- wards be used. They may be preserved several months by greasing them all over with melted mutton suet, and wedging them close together in a box of bran, the small ends always down- wards. EGGS: To Keep. Pour a full gallon of boiling water on two quarts of quicklime and J lb. of salt. When cold mix into it 1 oz. of cream of tartar, and the day following put in the eggs. After the lime has been stirred well into the boiling water a large part of it will settle at the bottom of the vessel, on which the eggs will remain. Keep them covered with the liquor,_ and they will keep two years. EGGS WITH ANCHOVIES. Take two or three French rolls, cut them into slices (not too thin), and toast and butter them ; over them cut shreds of anchovies, put them on a dish, and before you serve them lay a poached egg on each toast. EGGS AND ANCHOVIES (in Savory Jelly). Take ten good anchovies, clean them, cut them into shreds, and lay them on a plate; poach five eggs in vinegar and water, and as you poach them put them in cold water ; then take a plain mould, and into the bottom of the mould put a little savory jelly. As soon as it is set take the anchovies, and neatly cross them on the jelly ; trim your eggs very nicely and with care, lay them on the anchovies, and gently pour on a little jelly nearly cold. When the eggs and anchovies are well set fill up the mould, keep it in ice till it is wanted, and then turn it oyt like any other jelly. EGGS WITH ASPARAGUS. Cut some asparagus that has been previously boiled the same size as peas, break six eggs into a basin, beat them up, put them, with a little pepper, salt, and the asparagus, into a stewpan, with 2 ozs. of butter, and keep stirring all the time it is on the fire. When it becomes thick it is done ; then put a toast on the dish, and pour the eggs and asparagus on the toast. This should be served up immediately when done, for if permitted to stand it will not be good. EGGS FOR BALLS. Boil six eggs, take the yolks, pound them, add a little flour and salt, and the yolks of two raw eggs; mix all well together, and roll into balls. They must be boiled before they are added to any made dish or soup.