COI COI [ 833 ] Carlino, a small coin and money of account in the kingdom of Naples and in Sicily. It contains 10 grani, worth 4f d. In Piedmont the carlino is a gold coin. Coined before 1785 it was of the assayed value of ^65 18s. 8d.; subsequent to that year, £b 12s. 3d. The half, &c., in proportion. Carolin d'Or, or simply Carolin, a gold coin of Bavaria, Hesse-Darmstadt, and Wirtemberg, value 20s. 4|d. Cask, a small coin in China, and India beyond the Ganges. It is the only coin used in China. It is not coined but cast. It is composed of 6 parts of copper and 4 of lead; round, marked on one side, and rather raised at the edges, with a square hole in the middle. These pieces are commonly carried like beads on a string or wire. A tale in account of fine silver should be worth 1000 cash, or about 6s. 8d.; but on account of their convenience for common use their price is sometimes so much raised that only 750 cash are given for the tale. Cash is sometimes called Caxa. In Sumatra cash are small pieces of tin or lead, 2500 of which go to a mace. Cent or Centime, a money of account in the new system of France, and a coin in the United States of North America. In France the cen- time is the hundredth part of the franc. In the money of the United States the cent is the hundredth part of a dollar, and contains 208 grains of copper. Half-cents are coined in the same proportion. Chaye, a small silves coin of Persia of the value of 2Jd. Commassee, a small copper coin, containing a little silver, made use of at Betelfagui, or Betle- fackee, in Arabia. Copang or Cohan. The old copangs weigh 371 Dutch asen, or 275 English grains, and the gold is said to be 22 carats fine. This would give 362 4s. 7d. sterling for the value of the old copang; but it must be observed that the Japanese coins are reckoned at Madras only 87 touch, which is 20ff carats, and this reduces the value of the old copang to ^£2 Is. lOd. sterling. The new copangs weigh 180 English grains, and the gold is about 16 carats fine, which gives their value 21s. 3d. sterling. Copeck. See Kopek. Coronilla or Ve'mten de Oro, a Spanish coin of gold of the value of 4s. Old. Cowries. Kelly, under ' Calcutta in Bengal,' says, ' Accounts are sometimes kept in the in- ferior departments of business in cowries, a species of small sea-shells, which, as long as they remain unbroken, are used as money in small payments; and 2560 cowries are generally reckoned for a current rupee ; but they have intermediate divisions : thus 4 cowries make 1 gunda; 20 gundas, 1 punn; 4 punns, 1 anna; 4 annas, 1 cahaun ; and 4 cahauns, 1 current rupee; but the last proportion is variable. Cowries are also used for money pt Scindy on the Malabar coast, at Siam on the farther pe- ninsula, and in Guinea, where 2000 of these shells are called a macuta.' Cox, a small Persian coin in copper : 10 coz- baugues or coz make a shahee. Crazia, a small silver coin in Tuscany. Crimbal, a small coin in the West India Islands, called also Isle du Vent Bits, which pass for 7^d. currency. Crown. In England Henry VIII. was the first king who coined a crown in gold. He afterwards struck some patterns for a crown in silver; but Edward VI. was the first who coined the silver crown and half-crown for currency. From Elizabeth to William IV. the silver crown and half-crown have been struck in every reign. The croone, or crown, was formerly a coin of the Netherlands; those after 1755 were estimated at 2 florins 14 stivers of exchange, or 3 florins 3 stivers current. It was also a coin of Denmark; double, single, and half-crowns were reckoned at 8, 4, and 2 marks crown money, or 8 marks 8 skillings, 4 marks 4 skillings, and 2 marks 2 skillings current. Crusado, a coin in Portugal, both in gold and silver. Of the gold crusados there are two kinds, the old crusado coined at 400 rees, the new crusado at 480 rees ; the silver crusado, also of 480 rees, has its half, quarter, and eighth. The value of the old crusado was 2s. 5d.; of the new, both gold aad silver, 2s. 7d. Daalder, a Dutch silver coin, or 30 stiver piece, worth in sterling 2s. 6Jd. Daezajie, a silver coin of Persia, of the value of 5 mamoodis, worth about 15d. Decime, a money of account and coin in the revolutionary system of France. Ten decimes make the franc, or 100 centimes. Copper pieces of one and two decimes are still current. Denaro, a money of account in most parts of Italy. Denier. It wasr the 240th part of the livre, or French pound. Denushka, a Russian copppr coin, half a kopek. Dime, a money of account and silver coin in America, is the tenth part of a dollar. There are also half-dimes ; both coined in 1796, worth 5id. and 2|d. Dittoholo, a copper coin in the Ionian Islands, the double of the obolo or cent. The cent is worth ^d. nearly. Diivani or Para, a money of Abyssinia. Dohra or Dobraon, a Portuguese gold coin. Kelly says the old dobra coined before 1722 at 20,000 rees has since become worth 24,000 ; the dobra struck since 1722 is of 12,800 rees.