[ 410 ] DEN DES coming quite stupid, he neither feels the sensa- tions of hunger nor thirst, nor any of the other propensities of nature, on which account urine and excrements are involuntarily voided. As the disorder increases it ultimately terminates in death. DENTIFRICE. See Teeth. DENTITION, or Teething. Of all the diseases to which children are liahle not one is attended with such truly distressing symptoms as difficult teething. With regard to the time of cutting their teeth no fixed or exact period can be laid down, as some cut their first tooth at three or four months old, while others, again, have not the smallest appearance of a tooth before the eighth or ninth month. Teething in the majority of children generally begins be- tween the fifth and eighth month, and the pro- cess of first teething commonly continues until the sixteenth at least. The two fore-teeth of the under jaw are those which usually appear first, and after these two more are observed coming out of the upper jaw exactly opposite to the former. These are succeeded by the fore- grinders, then the dog teeth, and the last of an infant's first teeth, the eye teeth, making sixteen in all. This, it is well known, is the ordinary number of a child's first teeth, as they are called; but some infants cut four double teeth in each jaw instead of only two, making the whole number twenty. In strong, healthy children the process of teething goes on in the manner just described, and the teeth are cut soon and easily; but in ^unhealthy and weak infants this process is both slow and uncertain. The well-known symptoms preceding teething are familiar to all mothers, such as dribbling, swelling, spreading, and heat of the gums, redness of the cheeks, with eruptions on the skin, especially on the face and scalp ; the child is watchful; a looseness ensues, with griping green stools; is peevish, starts during sleep, and seems convulsed in particular parts of the body. In almost all cases the child shiieks, and thrusts its fingers into its mouth, &c. Many of the evils of teething are often pre- vented by a spontaneous looseness coming on, and in children of full habit it might be well to excite this artificially where it does not naturally occur. Where there is considerable fever drawing blood by scarifying the gums in the neighbourhood of the parts affected, and apply- ing leeches behind the ears, are often practised, and not unfrequently with advantage. In some instances blisters may be substituted instead of leeches with a good effect. Opium is sometimes resorted to for the pur- pose _ of allaying pain and irritation during difficult dentition, but the practice should be adopted with due caution. Dalby's carminative, Godfrey's cordial, soothing syrups, in fact, all such quack nostrums containing opium, which constitutes their chief ingredient, ought to be banished from the nursery as unsafe, and with- out any other, if any, than a tempoi'ary benefit, which may at all times be procured by less hazardous means. Instead of these a tea- spoonful of the syrup of poppies will be the safest opiate that can be administered in cases of urgent necessity. It is unfortunately too much the practice of nurses to give some of the preceding or other preparations of opium in the watching and complaints of children, that their own rest may not be disturbed. This practice is fraught with evil, and merits the severest censure. The practice of giving children coral aud other hai'd substances to put into their mouths during the period of teething is im- proper, as they occasion hardness of the gums. A piece of small wax candle or a crust of bread is much better. Pure air, proper exercise, wholesome food, an open belly, and everything that has a tendency to promote general health and to guard against fever will greatly contribute to the safety of teething, as well as to the child passing quickly through this dangerous period. DEPILATORIES, orDESTKOYERs of Super- fluous Hairs, are variously compounded. Delcroix's Poudre Subtile. Take orpi- ment, 1 part; finely powdered quicklime and starch, of each 11 parts: mix. It should be kept from the air. For use make it into a paste with a little warm water, and apply it to the part previously shaved close. As soon as it has become thoroughly dry it may be washed off with a little warm water. Oriental Rusma. Take quicklime, 2ozs.; orpimentj \ oz.; strong alkaline lye, 1 lb. : boil together until a feather dipped into it loses its flue. It is applied to the skin previously soaked in warm water by gentle friction for a veiy short time, followed by washing with warm water. This is one of the most certain aud powerful depi- latories made, but rapidly loses its strength un- less kept in a well-stoppered glass bottle. DERBY CAKES. Rub \ lb. of butter into 2 lbs. of fine flour, 1 lb. of currants, the same of moist sugar, and an egg; mix these with half a pint of milk, roll the paste out thin, and cut it into cakes. In a moderate oyen they will be done in a few minutes. DESERT ISLAND. Take a lump of paste, and form it into a rock three inches broad at the top ; then colour it, and set it in the middle of a deep china dish; put a cast figure on it, with a crown on its head and a knot of rock candy at its feet; then make a roll of paste au inch thick, and stick it on the inner edge of the dish two parts round; cut eight pieces of eryngo