CHE [ 283 ] CHE parts of the timber are more firm and less liable to corruption. The shoots from the stubs being numerous and luxuriant, it makes an excellent underwood, and is of great service for hop-poles, as it may be cut when about eighteen or twenty years old, and will continue productive for nearly thirty years. Being greatly superior to elm for door jambs, and several other pur- poses of house carpentry, it is considered as nearly equal to the oak itself; but, on account of its possessing a precarious brittleness, which renders it unsafe for beams, it ought not to be employed in any situation where an uncertain weight is sometimes to be supported. All writers agree that the wood of the chestnut is peculiarly excellent for casks, as it neither shrinks nor changes the taste or colour of the liquor. It is also converted into various articles of furniture, and, when stained, may be made to resemble in beauty and colour the finest mahogany. This improvement is effected by rubbing it over, first with alum-water, then laying on with a brush a decoction of logwood chips, and lastly, a decoction of Brazil-wood. Besides these various uses to which this tree may be applied, its fruit affords an agreeable addition to our winter dessert. If properly managed a sweet and nutritious bread may be prepared from it, especially when mixed with a small proportion of wheaten or other flour. In its wild state it is called the horse chestnut, and, independently of its beauty as an ornamental tree, its mealy nuts supply not only an excellent food for fattening deer and hogs, but are like- wise of great service in whitening cloth and the manufacture of starch. The nuts must be first taken out of the outward green prickly husks, and the brown rind carefully pared off", so as totally to eradicate the sprout or growth. They are next to be rasped, or grated fine, into water, and the pulp thus produced should be washed as clean as possible through a hair sieve. This washing is repeated twice through fine sieves, constantly adding pure water, to prevent any starch from adhering to the pulp. The last process is to strain it with a large quantity of water (about four gallons to a pound of starch) through a fine gauze, muslin, or lawn sieve, in order to clear it entirely of all bran or other impurities. As soon as it subsides the water is to be poured off, and the remaining substance mixed up repeatedly with clean water till the latter becomes perfectly colourless. It should then be drained off till it is nearly dry, and set to bake, either in the usual mode in which starch is baked, or spread out before a brisk fire, care being taken to prevent it from horning, or turning into a paste or jelly; which, as soon as it becomes dry, acquires the solidity and hardness of horn. CHESTNUT CREAM. Roast and then pound a quarter of a hundred chestnuts with a small quantity of milk; to this add the yolks of % eggs, 1 pint of milk, |-lb. of powder sugar, and about 1 oz. of butter. Boil these together for some minutes, then strain it, and set it by to cool. CHESTNUT CROQUETTES. Roast 50 fine chestnuts, pick them, and take away all those parts that may have become coloured. Set aside 12, and divide each into half; pound the remainder with 2 ozs. of butter, and rub the paste through a sieve into a stewpan, with a glass of cream, 2 ozs. of butter, the same of sugar, and a grain of salt. Put it on a moderate fire, stirring it one way. In two minutes add to it the yolks of 6 eggs, and re- place it on the fire for one minute, when the cream will have some consistence; pour it on a buttered baking-dish, spread it out, and cover it with paper. When cold inclose each half chestnut in double its size of the cream, roll it in the hollow of your hand to make it per- fectly round, and then roll in crumb of bread, grated extremely fine. All the croquettes being thus formed, beat up 5 eggs, add a pinch of salt, dip the croquettes in this, drain, and then roll them again in bread-crumbs. Make them quite smooth in the hollow of your hand, and fry them in lard, or whatever else you please. Move the croquettes with the point of a skewer, and when done take them out with a skimmer ; drain them well, sprinkle them with sugar, and dish them in a pyramidal form. CHESTNUT PASTE. Make a marmalade of boiling chestnuts in water, and, rubbing them through a sieve, pound them ; and to |lb. of this add J lb. of any other fruit marmalade. Mix them well up with an equal weight of sugar, boiled to grande plume; put it into your moulds, and bake it as cherry or any other paste. CHESTNUT PIE. Glaze the quantity of chestnuts you may require with orange flowers, and lay them in layers in a crust made of almond paste; cut lemon-peel into fillets, and stick them into the interstices; cover the whole with very clear apple jelly. CHESTNUT PUDDING. Put a dozen and a half of chestnuts into a skillet or saucepan of water, and boil them a quarter of an hour; then blanch and peel them, and beat them in a marble mortar, with a little orange-flower or rose water and white wine, until they are a very fine paste ; then beat up the yolks of 12 eggs, with half the whites, and mix them well; grate half a nutmeg, a little salt, and mix them with 3 pints of cream and ^Ib. of melted butter; sweeten to your palate, and mix all together. Put it over the fire, and keep stirring it until