[ 448 ] EAR EAR wards at one time e\er exceed half a pint. The flesh-brush used over the region of the stomach for some minutes about half an hour previously to eating, and a similar operation after a meal, is attended with considerable benefit. A moderate quantity of wine, such as Madeira or sheny, may be allowed; but should these disagree, and become acid on the stomach, weak brandy and water may be substituted for ordinary drink. Ardent spirits on no account should be taken; they are highly injurious, and cannot be too much avoided. E. EARACHE {Otalgia). This disorder chiefly aff'ects the membrane which lines the inner cavity of the ear, called the meatus auditor ins. It is often so violent as to occasion great rest- lessness, anxiety, and even delirium. Some- times epileptic fits and other convulsive disor- ders have been brought on by extreme pain iu the ear. The earache may proceed from any of the causes which produce inflammation. It often proceeds from a sudden suppression of perspira- tion, or from the head being exposed to cold when covered with perspiration. It may also be occasioned by insects getting into the ear, or from any hard body sticking in the ear. Some- times it proceeds from the gathering of matter to the ear. This often happens in the decline of malignant fevers, and occasions deafness, which is generally reckoned a favourable symptom. When the earache proceeds from insects, or any hard body sticking in the ear, every method must be taken to remove them as soon as pos- sible. The membranes may be relaxed by dropping into the ear oil of sweet almonds or olive oil. Afterwards the patient should be made to sneeze by taking snuff, or some strong sternutatory. If this should not force out the body it must be extracted by art, as by syringing the ear, or by the aid of the forceps. We have seen insects which had got into the ear come out of their own accord upon pouring in oil. When the pain of the ear proceeds from in- flammation it must be treated like other topical inflammations, by a cooling regimen and open- ing medicines. Bleeding at the beginning, either in the arm or jugular vein, or cupping in the neck, will be proper. The ear may likewise be fomented with the steam of warm water ; or flannel bags filled with boiled mallows and camomile flowers may be applied to it warm; or bladders filled with warm milk and water. An exceedingly good method of fomenting the ear is to apply it close to the mouth of a jug filled with warm water, or a strong decoctiou of camomile flowers. The patient's feet should be frequently bathed in warm water, and he ought to take small doses of nitre and rhubarb, viz., a scruple of the former and ten grains of the latter three times a day. His drink may be whey or decoction of barley and liquorice, with figs or raisins. The parts behind the ear ought frequently to be rubbed with camphorated oil, or a little of the volatile liniment, and a few drops of the cam- phorated spirit of wine may be put into the ear with wool or cotton. A blister behind the ear, if applied early, will sometimes remove this complaint. When the inflammation cannot be removed a poultice of bread and milk or roasted onions may be applied to the ear, and frequently re- newed till the abscess breaks or can be opened. Afterwards the humoui's may be diverted from the part by gentle laxatives, blisters, or issues; but the discharge must not be suddenly dried up by any external application. Earache occasionally continues for some time without any apparent inflammation, and is then frequently removed by filling the ear with cot- ton or wool, moistened with tincture of opium or ether, or even with warm oil or water. Pain in the ear is also sometimes the consequence of a diseased tooth, in which case the ether should, be applied to the cheek over the suspected tooth, or a grain of opium with a little camphor, or half a grain of the extract of belladonna, may be applied to the tooth itself. EARS are the organs by which we perceive the vibrations of the air which occasion sound. For this purpose our ears are formed partly of cartilages, and partly of bones, in order to com- municate these vibrations to the auditory nerves, and thence to the brain. This sense also is more acute in the lower animals than in the human species. The hare, for instance, is warned against approaching danger by her ex- quisitely fine ear ; and the owl, being sensible of the lowest sounds, makes use of her acute ear to assist her in the discovery of prey. The W'arm-blooded animals have an extei'nal and an internal ear, but in almost every species it is of a different structure. Most animals can move their ears—an advantage not enjoyed by man, though it was not nature which formed our ears immoveable, but an absurd custom, continued for many centuries, gradually pro- duced this effect. That the ears were not naturally designed to lie flat on the head is suf- ficiently obvious from the number of muscles with which they ai'e provided, and each of which is designed to perform different motions. The manner in which the sense of hearing is produced is shortly this. The vibrations of the