[ 72 ] BAT BAS as polished fire-irons, if they have not been allowed to rust, merely require to be rubbed daily with a very dry leather. The higher the polish the less is the liability to rust. If they have to be stored away, previously brush over them a mixture composed of two parts copal varnish, one part olive oil, and two parts spirit of tui-pentine. If rust has made its appearance upon bright bars or fire-irons, mix together thoroughly 2 ozs. of tripoli and 1 oz. of flowers of sulphur, and rub this upon the rusted spots with a piece of soft leather. BASIL VINEGAR. Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with fresh green leaves of basil, and cover them with vinegar or wine, and let them steep for ten days. If you wish a very strong essence, strain the liquor, put it on some fresh leaves, and let it steep fourteen days longer. BASILICON OINTMENT is the resinous cerate, Unguentum resincB, of medical men—a preparation consisting of eight parts of hog's lard, five of white resin, and two of yellow wax; or, according to the London College, of nearly equal parts of yellow resin, beeswax, and olive oil. The former ingredients, prescribed by the Edinburgh College, are cheaper and equally efficacious. This ointment is generally employed in the dressing of wounds and ulcers, for digesting and cleansing them, as well as for promoting their healing. Modern sui'geons, however, are not willing to attribute any considerable effect to external applications ; for they are well convinced that the healing of wounds depends more on the spontaneous efforts of nature, especially in a sound and healthy constitution, than upon any artificial aid by liniments, un- guents, or plasters; and that little benefit can be derived from them, unless the diseased part be properly dressed and cleansed, while the internal state of the body should also be duly attended to. Yet there are instances on record in which the basilicon, combined either with a small proportion of the red precipitate of mercury, or, which is still better, the juice of the burdock root, has proved efficacious in heal- ing scrofulous ulcers, especially those situated near the articulations of bones. Black basilicon is in every respect but colour the same ointment, with black resin employed instead of yellow. BASKET VARNISH is employed for var- nishing ladies' straw baskets, straw hats, &c. Pound 2 ozs., or any other quantity, of sealing- wax, of black or any desired colour; sift it through fine muslin, put the powder into a wide-mouthed phial, and add 1 oz. of rectified spirit of wine; let them remain for two days, shaking the mixture often. Then, with a hog's bristle brush, such as is used by house painters, apply it to the basket or other article requiring to be varnished. When quite dry, apply another coating of the varnish. BASKETS are made of various materials, such as osiers, rushes, deal shavings, and straw. They are likewise of various and uncertain sizes. A basket of medlars contains 2 bushels, a basket of asafoetida from 20 lbs. to 50 lbs., and a basket of salt, 7 lbs. In Covent Garden market the following baskets are employed :— Sea-kale punnets—8 inches in diameter at the top, and 7^ inches at the bottom, and 2 inches deep. Radish punnets— 8 inches in diameter and 1 inch deep, if to hold six hands; or 9 inches by 1 inch for twelve hands. Mushroom punnets—7 inches by 1 inch Salading punnets—5 inches by 2 inches. Sieve—Contains 7 imperial gallons. It is a round basket, of which the diameter is 15 inches and depth 8 inches. Half-sieve—Contains 3^ imperial gallons. It averages 12^ inches in diameter, and 6 inches in depth. Currant sieve—Contains 2J pecks. Bushel sieve—10^ imperial gallons. Di- ameter at top, 17f inches ; at bottom, 17 inches; depth, 11J inches. Bushel basket—Ought, when heaped, to con- tain an imperial bushel. Diameter at bottom, 10 inches ; at top, \i\ inches; depth, 17 inches. Walnuts, nuts, apples, and potatoes, are sold by this measure. A bushel of the last-named, cleaned, weighs 56 lbs.; but 4 lbs. additional are allowed if they are not washed. Pottle is a long basket, tapering down to the bottom, containing about a pint and a half, used in selling strawberries, raspberries, and forced mushrooms, by retail. BASTING is the fixing together of the parts of a dress, or other needlework, by means of long stitches, so that the final sewing may be done more readily and accurately. As the thread used for this purpose is wasted, that should be purchased for the purpose which is sold very cheap by haberdashers under the descriptive name of basting cotton. BASTINGS in cookery are composed of either of the following:—1. Fresh butter; 2. Cla- rified suet; 3. Minced sweet herbs, butter, and claret, especially for mutton and lamb; 4. Water and salt; 5. Cream and melted butter, especially for a flayed pig; 6. Yolks of eggs, grated biscuit, and juice of oranges. BATEMAN'S ITCH OINTMENT. One ounce of hogs' lard, 1 oz. of flowers of sulphur, 20 grains of carbonate of potass in powder, 5 grains of red sulphm'et of mercury, 4 drops of 011 of bergamot, and | drachm fluid of rose water. Mix thoroughly the dry ingredients with a little of the lard; warm the remainder before adding