FOW [ 521 ] FOW lemon juice, and pour it under the fo^^l. Serve with some stuffed olives without stones. Turn the olives with a knife, so as to take out the stones and leave the olives whole. FOWL PILLAU. Boil a jjint of rice in as much water as will cover it, with black pep- per, a few blades of mace, and half a dozen cloves tied up in a bit of cloth. When the rice is tender take out the spice, and stir in a piece of butter; boil a fowl and a piece of bacon, lay them in a dish, and cover them with rice ; lay round the dish, and upon the rice, hard eggs cut in halves, quarters, and lengthways, with onions, first boiled and then fried. FOWL, PUDDING OF (A la Reine). This dish is made of cold fowls. Take the breast and fleshy parts of several fowls, and cut them into small dice, all of an equal size. Throw these dice into a reduction of veloute, and season them well; then put them into a dish that they may cool. When this preparation is quite cold cut it into two equal parts, which you must make into puddings of a long shape, the size of the dish; roll them in crumbs of bread ; then dip them into egg, and roll them again in bread. You must be careful that the extremities are well covered with the crumbs, otherwise they will brealc in the frjing-pan. When they are fried of a good colour drain them, wipe off the grease with a clean towel, and serve with a thin veloute, or green parsley fried between them. FOWL, PURfiB OF. Take all the white part of three cold roast fowls, and pound it; then add about 1 oz. of calf's udder, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg; pound the whole together until well mi.xed. Dissolve two sj oonsful of white jelly or consomme, and three of bechamel or veloute, and when liquid add to it the pounded meat; stir together over the fire, but do not let it boil; strain it into another vessel, and keep it hot in a bain-marie. Serve it with bread in the usual manner. FOWL ROASTED WITH CHESTNUTS. Roast some chestnuts very carefully, so that they may not be burnt, then take off the skins, and peel them; take about a dozen of them, cut them small, and bruise them in a mortar; parboil the liver of a fowl, and bruise it; cut about I lb. of ham or bacon, and pound it; then mix the whole together, with a good quantity of chopped parsley, sweet herbs, some mace, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When these are all well mixed together put it into your fowl, and roast it. The best way of doing this is to tie the neck, and hang it up by the legs to roast with a string, and then baste it with butter. For sauce take the rest of the chestnuts, peel and skin them, put them into some good gravy, with a little white wine, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour; then place your fowl in the dish, pour in the sauce, garnish with lemon, and serve. FOWL ROASTED WITH A RAGOUT OF OYSTERS. Make a forcemeat, to which add a dozen oysters ; stuff the craw, cover the breast of the fowl with slices of bacon, and then a sheet of paper; roast it, take some cullis or good gravy, put in some oysters, with their liquor strained, a little mushroom powder or catsup, and lemon juice; thicken it with flour, add Cayenne pepper and salt, and boil it up. When the fowl is roasted take off the bacon, and serve the sauce in the dish. FOWL, SALAD OF. Cut up a couple of cold roasted fowls, take off the skin, trim them, and lay them in a deep dish with salt, oil, and vinegar. When they have soaked in this a short time place the fowl on a dish, round which lay some lettuces, well washed and cut in quarters, hard eggs (also quartered), fillets of anchovies, gherkins, capers, and a ravigotte. Pour the dressing over the whole, and serve. FOWL, STEWED (1). Truss a fowl the same as for boiling; put it in a stewpan, with a bit of butter, chopped parsley, shallots, and mushrooms; stew it on a slow fire about a quarter of an hour, turning it often; then put it into another stewpan, with slices of veal and ham, and all the first seasoning; cover it with thin slices of bacon, and stew it gently for a quarter of an hour longer; then add a little whole pepper, some salt, a little stock, and some white wine, and finish it on a braise. When done squeeze in the juice of a lemon, wipe the fowl clean from fat, and serve. FOWL, STEWED (2). Put four clean skewers into the bottom of a stewpan, and place the fowl upon them ; put in a quart of gravy, a bunch of celery, cut small and washed very clean, and two or three blades of mace; let all stew gently till there remains only just sufficient liquor for sauce, then add a good piece of butter rolled in flour, two spoonsful of red wine, the same quantity of catsup, and a sufficient quantity of pepper and salt to season it; place the fowl on a dish, and serve the sauce over it. FOWL, STUFFED. Make a forcemeat with i lb. of beef suet, as much crumb of bread grated finely, and the meat of a fowl cut very small; beat these in a mortar, with 1 lb. of veal, some truffles, morels, and mushrooms cut small, a few sweet herbs and parsley shred finely, some grated nutmeg and lemon-peel, pepper, and salt; bone your fowls, fill them with forcemeat, and roast them. Serve with good gravy, truffles, and morels. The fowls may be larded if you choose. FOWL A LA TARTARE. Take a fine fowl, and turn the legs as usual; then cut it iu two.