FOW [ 524 ] and a little pepper and salt; beat up three eggs in a basin, dip the pieces of fowl therein, atid roll them in bread crumbs. Do this twice over, then heat some lard in a stewpan, and fry the pieces of a gold colour. When done fry some dry parsley very crisply, put it in the middle of the dish, and the fowl round it. FOWLS' LIVERS AND GIZZARDS. Prepare the gizzards, and when they are cool lard them or slash them ; fill the slashes with gratiu, and lard the edges; lard the livers with truffles, cover a flat dish with gratin, and lay a puff- paste border round. Having crisped the small wings in poultry fat, dish one under each liver and gizzard alternately over the gratin, or roast them on a bird spit. Prepare a tomato sauce, or any ragout, and, after braising the liver and gizzards, glaze them ; dish the ragout, lay over the six side bones, and intermix in a wreath the livers in halves, with the gizzards; or, if there are any other livers or gizzards, they may be added, and all kept whole. FOWLS, PANADO OF. Boil a bit of crumb of bread in some good broth, add to it the breast of a couple of fowls, roasted and ver}' finely pounded; sift the whole in a cloth with strong pressing, and add broth according to the consistence you would have it. FOWLS WITH PEAS. Take i lb. of the breast lard, cut it into dice, take off the skin, and blanch it; drain and put it into a stewpan ; with J lb. of butter make a roux ; pass the lard into it, letting it brown a little. When it is a fine white put in two young fowls cut up as for a fricassee ; moisten with a ladleful of bouillon ; mix it well, and season with parsley, young onions, half a bay leaf, and a clove ; let it boil, put iu a quart of young peas, cook it over a strong fire without a cover, and skim it. When done dish the fowls, and reduce the sauce if too thick ; taste, mask the fowls, and send to table. FOWLS A LA PEREGUEUX. Prepare two fowls, and draw them by the crop. Prepare also 2 lbs. of truffles, and make them as equal as possible, or cut them with a cutter ; mince the parings, and cook the whole in 1 lb. of rasped bacon, with pepper, salt, and spices, add a small clove of garlic; simmer them half an hour, shaking them carefully ; let them cool, stuff at the breast, truss for roasting, cover them with lard and two or three sheets of paper; tie them on the spit, do them an hour and a quarter, and serve them over a,peregueux or truffle sauce made of the parings, FOWLS, ROASTED, Well pepper and salt the fowls before you spit them; roast them be- fore a clear fire, and froth them up, when nearly done, by sprinkling them over with flour and salt, basting them with butter. When done be careful in taking out the skewers. Serve them with very good clear gravy in a dish, and bread or egg sauce in a boat. FOWLS ROASTED LIKE PHEASANTS. These must be full grown. Leave the heads on, truss them like pheasants, lard them with bacon, and roast them. Serve them with gravy and bread sauce. FOWLS, STUFFING FOR. Chop finely i lb. of suet, and with it mix the same quantity of bread crumbs, a large spoonful of chopped parsley, nearly a tea-spoonful of thyme and marjoram mixed, one-eighth of a nutmeg, some grated lemon-peel, salt, and pepper, and bind the whole with two eggs ; a tea-spoonful of finely shred shallots or onions may be added at pleasure. FOWLS WITH TRUFFLES. Truss a large fowl as for boiling, and put truffles into the inside, well stewed and prepared ; then put it on the spit, with a slice of fat bacon on the breast, and paper tied over that; roast it well, set it on the dish, garnish it with truffles in sauce d VEspaqnole or brown sauce, and serve. FOWLS, WINGS OF, LARDED. Take ns many wings of fowls as 3'ou may require, lard them, and put them into a saucepan, with a slii.'e of veal, a little streaked bacon, and sweet herbs. When sufficiently done lay them iu a dish on any vegetable you please, previously boiling them in good broth, and serve them as a side dish. FOXGLOVE. See Digitalis and Anodyne. FRACTURE is the term applied to describe the place where a bone is broken. See Arm (Bkoken), Collar Bone, &c. Fractures are either simple or compound. A simple fracture is loss of continuity in the sub- stance of a bone, without a correspondent wouud through the flesh. The characteristics by which a simple fracture may be known are swelling, occasioned by an alteration in the shape of the part; loss of function ; acute pain, excited by the fractured ends of the bone lacerating the contiguous parts; and a grating noise of the bones them- selves. When the person afflicted is old and infirm, or a fracture attends a scorbutic habit, or when any of the large bones are broken near the extremities, and a high degree of inflammation takes place, there is more or less danger. Here it may not be improper generally to observe, that art can do nothing more towards the cure of a broken bone than to place it precisely in the position it was before the accident happened, and that the method of retaining it in that position is by bandages properly applied, and splints the length of the limb. To reduce a fracture of the leg and thigh