[ 355 ] COR COR colour. It will be ready for drinking in a few weeks, but will be greatly the better for being kept longer. NoYEAU. In some cordials the flavouring article should be first mixed with the syrup ; in others the sugar should bo dissolved in an infusion of the flavouring substance; and in others this substance should be first mixed with the spirit. The last-meutioned is the way in which we make noyeau. Take I lbs. of bitter almonds and the thinly pared rind of a fine lemon; blanch the almonds, and shred the lemon-peel into small bits; put them together into a mortar, and bruise them to as fine a powder as possible; put the powder into a gallon stone bottle, and add 2 quarts of diluted spirits of wine (1 quart of spirits •")f wine and 1 quart of water). Cork the bottle particularly well, make a point of shalung it thoroughly once every day, and at the end of a week it will be ready for the next stage of the process. Now make a syrup of 2 lbs. of lump sugar to 1 quart of water ; let it stand till cold, and then pour it into the bottle ; mix the whole well by shaking the bottle, and let it stand auother week. Now strain the liquor from the almond powder, &c., and filter it through white blotting paper : a common funnel will do for the purpose, putting a few slips of wood down the inside of the funnel. To make the filter take a sheet of blotting paper, square it, put corner to corner, and double it again ; the slips of wood prevent the paper from adhering closely to the sides of the funnel, and in that way accelerate the process. The noyeau is now ready for bottling. It should be most care- fully corked. It maij be drunk directly, but it ought not to be used for at least two months, and it will not have reached excellence in less than a year; indeed, it will go on improving for many years. CORDIALS, MEDICAL. Substances which, when taken into the stomach, excite an active warm sensation have received the denomination of cordials, a term which, though not strictly correct, it becomes expedient to adopt. Being given with mere cordial effect, or combined with substances usually administered in low febrile affections, they may be divided into simple and febrifuge. Simple cordials consist of such articles as peppermint, pennyroyal, and cinnamon waters, and of wines such as Madeira and sherry. Still more potent remedies of this class are cam- phor, spirit of peppermint, camphor mixture, compound spirits of lavender and cinnamon, aromatic confection, and sulphuric ether. Brandy, rum, and spiiituous compounds are, too, occasionally used as cordials. These last should be cautiously had recourse to. In the urgent stages of asthma, gout, spasms and convulsions simple cordials are usually ad ministered. In low malignant fevers the febri- fuge should be preferred. Suitable articles of nutritious diet may accompany their use. Cordial Bolus. Take of cinnamon bark and ginger powdered each 6 grains ; aromatic con- fection as much as is sufficient. Make a bolus. To be taken every four hours. Cordial Mixtures. Take of peppermint water 5 fluid ozs.; aromatic confection, 2 drachms ; spirit of peppermint and syrup of ginger, each \ fluid oz. Mix them. Three table-spoonsful to be administered three or four times a day. Or, take of camphor mixture 6 fluid ozs.; sul- phuric ether, 2 fluid drachms. *Mix them. Two table-spoonsful to be taken as occasion may re- quire. Cordial Draughts. Take of camphor mixture and peppermint water each 6 fluid drachms; aromatic confection, 1 scruple ; spirit of pepper- mint and syrup of ginger, each 1 fluid drachm. Make a draught. To be taken every four hours. Or, take of camphor mixture 1 fluid oz.; sul- phuric ether, 30 minims. Make a draught. It must be given as the preceding. Febrifuge Cordials. Of this denomina- tion are camphor, serpentary, and contrajerva, either administered separately or combined with such articles as solution of acetate of ammonia. Febrifuge Cordial Bolus. Take of camphor 4 grains; serpentary root, J scruple ; aromatic confection as much as is sufficient. Make a bolus. To be taken every four hours. Cordial Febrifuge Mixtures. Take of car- bonate of potash 1 drachm; citric acid as much as is sufficient to saturate the carbonate of potash; the effervescence ceasing, add camphor mixture, 3 fluid ozs.; aromatic confection, 2 drachms ; spirit of peppermint and syrup of ginger, each ^ fluid oz. Mix them. Three table- spoonsful may be given every three hours. Or, take of solution of acetate of ammonia 2 fluid ozs.; camphor mixture, 3 fluid ozs.; sulphuric ether, 2 fluid drachms ; syrup, ^ fluid oz. Mix them. It should be taken as the preceding. Or, take of carbonate of potash 1 scruple; cin- namon water, 2 fluid drachms; distilled water, 7 fluid drachms; syrup of ginger, 1 fluid drachm. Make a draught. To be given with a table-spoonful of lemon juice in the act of effervescence, and to be repeated as occiision requires. CORIANDER (Coriandrum sativum). The whole plant whilst green has a nauseous, un- grateful smell like bugs, but the seed when dry is of a pleasant agreeable scent. It is generally sown for the benefit of the seed, though it is found wild in divers places, flowering in June; and the seed, which is the only part used, ia