CAL L 218 3 CAM more usefully employed than almost any other article in the whole range of the materia medica. It is capable of curing syphilis in every form, provided it does not run off by the bowels; and in obstructions and liver affections it is in well- regulated doses a most valuable remedy. When combined with certain diuretics it is diuretic; and in sudorific arrangements it is sudorific. It, moreover, imparts force to many of the mild, and moderates the severity of drastic medicines. Whenever we wish a strong and permanent impression to be made on the alimentary canal, and through it on the neighbouring viscera or the system generally, calomel, by universal consent, is adopted for such a purpose. In larger doses it is one of the most efficient purga- tives which we possess, especially in combination with other cathartics; it appears to be particularly ehgible in the diseases of children; and it is singular that infants can generally bear larger doses of it than adults. JJose, as an alterative, from | gram to 1 gram, night and morning; as a purgative, from 2 grains to 10 grains, or in some cases even to 15 grains or 1 scruple. It must be given in a pill, its in- solubility and specific gravity render any other form ineligible. CALVES' TAILS must always be scalded; if for fricandeaux lard and braise them; they may then be served with any sauce, and in any way you choose. CALVES' TAILS (en Tekrine). Divide seven or eight calves' tails at the joints, toss them up in some butter, taking care not to colour them; theu add 4 small spoonsful of flour, mix them well, and put in 4 ladlesful of consomme, and stir the ragout till it boils. Skim it well, put to it a small basket of mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and some scallions. When it is about three parts done skim off all the fat, and when quite done take out the pieces of tails and the mushrooms with a spoon with holes in it, and put them into another saucepan. Add to the sauce a ladleful of veloute, and when properly reduced strain it over the tails. Poach some veal quenelles, put them into your tureen ; toss up some shoulder of veal kernels, and veal sweet- breads cut in pieces, in a little butter, and having drained them, put them also into the tureen. Thicken your ragout with 5 yolks of eggs, stir them in over the stove, but do not let it boil. As soon as you find it sufficiently thick pour it into the tureen over the quenelle and other articles, which must be kept hot. CALVES' TAILS AU BLANC. Prepare some calves' tails as en Tebeine, and having mixed the flour with them, moisten with water. Put to them a bunch of parsley and scallions, 2 bay leaves, mushrooms, salt, and a little pep- per. Skim as directed in the above-mentioned recipe, add some small onions, and let it simmer, but not boil. When ready to serve thicken it with the yolks of 4 eggs. This ragout may be made brown as well as white; it is coloured with a roux. CALVES' TAILS AND CABBAGE. Scald calves' tails and pickled pork; scald also a good savoy for about half an hour. Take it out, press aU the water from it, cut it in quarters, tie it, and braise all together in stock, with slices of bacon, spices, and herbs. When done take them out and clear away the fat. Serve with good thick cuUis. CAMBRIC, a very fine linen fabric, made from flax. It was originally made at Cambray, in the Netherlands, and thence derived its name. It is manufactured chiefly in Ireland, near Bel- fast. French cambric is beautifully silky ; it is imported in pieces yards long. Cambric pocket-handkerchiefs are of three sizes, viz., 5-8tbs, 3-4ths, and 7-8ths of a yard square. IScotck cambric is made of cotton. CAMLET was so called from being formed of the hair of the camel, but now it is a stuff made of wool, silk, and sometimes of hair, especially that of goats combined with the first- mentioned substances. In some the warp con- sists of wool and silk, and the woof of hah\ The real oriental camlet is made from the hair of the Angora goat. There are no camlets made in Europe of goats' hair alone. France, Hol- land, Flanders, and England are the chief places where this manufacture is carried on. Those of Brussels are allowed to be of the finest quality, and those of England stand next in repute. These articles are of various kinds, which are denominated figured camlets, watered camlets, waved camlets, &c. Camlet formerly was much worn, and its warmth rendered it very appropriate for ladies' winter clothing. It resists wet better than any unprepared stuff. CAMOMILE {Anthemis noUlis). The flowers of this plant ai'e among the standards of domestic medicine. They possess the tonic and stomachic qualities usually ascribed to simple bitters, having very little astringency, but a strong odour of the aromatic and penetrating land, from which they are also judged to be carminative, emme- nagogue, and, in some measure, antispasmodic and anodyne. They have been guccessfully em- ployed for the cure of intermittents, as well as of fevers of the irregular, nervous kind, accom- panied with visceral obstructions, for which we have the authority of Sh- John Pringle. That camomile flowers, in doses from i drachm to 2 drachms, may be effectually substituted for Peruvian bark in the cm-e of intermittent fevers, appears from the testimony of several respectable physicians, and to which we may add that of Dr. CuUen, who says, " I have