FRA [ 625 ] FEE fhe mnscles should be previously relaxed by bending the knee. The person afflicted should lie on the side injured in a relaxed position. The eighteen-tailed bandage, and splints the length of the limb, should be applied. If the fracture be in the leg these latter may be furnished with holes to receive the ankles. The food in urgent cases of simple fracture must be spai'e and light. It should consist of such articles as tea, gruel, and panado. Roasted apples with a little sugar, or toasted bread with currant jelly, are also proper, and by degrees the more solid articles of vegetable diet. The drink should be such as water with toasted bread, barley water, lem.oiiade, apple tea, or currant jelly mixed with water. Tlie liquids are to be given cool. There should be some lessening of the influence of the whole of the natural powers. Evacuations, which often become necessary, should be proportionate to the vigour of the constitution and to the inflammatory symptoms. The bandages must be moistened with vinegar. If the thigh bone or those of the leg be broken the person afflicted must keep his bed for several weeks, nor should he be raised and supported by a bed chair until after the second. A rigid regard must be paid to cleanliness. A compound fracture is loss of continuity in the substance of a bone, attended with a corre- spondent wound through the flesh. It may be known from simple fracture by the correspondent wound, and by the blood which issues from it. The danger will be proportioned to the loss of blood, the extent of inflammation, and the tendency to mortification. Should compound fracture take place in either of the extremities, when the vessels from which the blood proceeds are situated so deeply that they cannot be secured but by making two extensive incisions, and the ends of the bones are much shattered, immediate amputation is advisable. Should the blood be easily stopped the fractured bones are to be placed as nearly as possible in their natural position. Inflamma- tion is to be guarded against by vegetable diet, and by those means as regulated for simple fracture. If, notwithstanding every precaution, the inflammatory symptoms run so high as either to induce extensive mortification, or to endanger sinking under the discharge, amputation ought to be performed , but this is not to be done until the first inflammation subsides. The limb is, fi'om the commencement of the affection, to be retained in such a situation as to allow the wound to be dressed as a common sore, and protruding portions of the bone are to be removed. FRAISE, ALMOND. Blanch and steep 1 lb. of the best Jordan almonds in a pint of cream, and add ten yolks and four whites of eggs ; take out the almonds, and pound them in a mortar; then mix them again with the cream and eggs, put thereto sugar and grated bread, and stir the whole well together; lay some fresh butter in a pan, and when hot pour in the batter; keep stirring till it is of a good con- sistence, and when done turn it out into a dish with some sugar over it. FRAISE, BACON. Cut some streaked bacon into slices of about two inches in length ; make a good batter of eggs, milk, and flour; put lard or dripping into a frying-pan with the bacon, and when hot pour in the batter. Cover the whole with a dish till done. FRANGIPANE. Take a saucepan, and put into it four spoonsful of flour, five eggs, a pint of milk, 1 oz. of butter, and a little salt; set it on the fire, stirring constantly until it has boiled ten minutes, and taking great care that it does not burn ; then pour it into a basin and let it cool. Take a few almonds (to every six sweet put one bitter), bruise them and some macaroons, aud when reduced to powder mix them with a little crisped orange flower (also in piwder), aud a sufficient quantity of powder sugar to sweeten it; add these to the above preparation, and stir them in well with a wooden spoon. If your frangipane be too thick add another egg or two, and then make whatever use of it you may desire. FRANGIPANE, POTATO. Whether the potatoes are boiled or cooked in steam, they must be well pounded in a mortar; add eggs, salt butter, rasped citron or lemon zest, bitter macaroons, and sugar, and use it for filling tu'tlets or making pasties. Carrot zests and all other roots may be used as above. FRECKLES are spots of a yellowish colour, about the size of a lentil seed, frequently appearing on the face, neck, and hands. These discolorations are either constitutional in the individual, or arise in consequence of the jaundice, or the action of the sun upon the part. Heat, or a sudden change of the weather, often causes the skin to assume a darker colour than natural, and thus produces what is called tan. sunburn, and morphew, which differ only in degree, and usually disappear in winter. Persons of a delicate complexion, and par- ticularly such as have naturally red hair, are most subject to freckles in the face and other parts exposed to the air. For the gratification of those who consider the removal of such little blemishes an object worthy of their attention wo communicate the following remedies:—