BUR BUR [ 180 ] Le Gorton, Le Chani'bertin, Le St. Georges, and La Perriere, when produced in a good season. Red Wines of the Second Quality. After those above mentioned comes Fosne, three leagues from Nuits. The wines of this vineyard are in general the finest and most delicate of La Cote Nuitoune. The best are those called Echojeaux and La Grande Rue. They follow immediately those of La Tache and Romance St. Vivaut at Nuits, three leagues north of Beaume. After the product of St. Georges all the wines of the first quality of Nuits are of equal merit, and in commerce go under the name of vins de Nuits de premiere qualite. They cannot be drank until the third or fourth year, but support well carriage Dy land or by sea. Premau, near Nuits, already mentioned, has moreover some wines which rank with those of the first quality of Nuits. Cham- bolle, a league from Nuits. This vineyard is surnamed the Volnay de la Cote de Nuits. Its wines have a little more body and spirit than Le Volnay, and keep better. Volnay, half a league south-west of Beaume, produces the ■finest and most agreeable wine in the district of Beaume, and even of all France. It has, more- over, seve and a charming bouquet. The crus most distinguished are Les Caillerets, Les Cham- pans, La Chapelle, and Chevrey. Pomard, three- fourths of a league from Beaume. The quality of its wines differ little from those of the pre- ceding, only they have more colour and body. Le Clos de la Gomarenne, La Vigne (called La JRugien), and that des Epeneaux are the best. Beaume. The grounds around this town furnish the most wines, both of the first and second quality; they differ little from the Volnay and Pomard. Some even rival the best of these vineyards. The wines of La Cote de Beaume have the reputation of being the most francs de goiit of all Burgundy. The crus most in repute are Les Greves, Les Feves, Le Clos de Mouches, du Roy and Les Clos Morey, sl league and a half from Nuits. The wines of this commune are not very inferior to a great part of those of Nuits. Some are superior, as before cited—Le Clos de Tart and Le Clos-a-la-Roche. Savigny, near Beaume. In this very extensive vineyard much wine is produced, the major part of the third and fourth classes. There are some privileged quarters, the products of which are little inferior to the first quality of Beaume; as La Dominode, Les Vorgelesses, Les Marconney, and Les Jairons. Meursaidt produces in its vineyards Les Sante- nets and Les Petures: wines like those of Les Caillerets, but with more body and keep better. The wines called Les Cras have all the fine qua- lities of Volnay. Red Wines of the Third Quality. Gevrey, two leagues from Dijon or La Cote de Nuits. Its crus, the most esteemed after those of Chambertin, are St. Jacques, de la Chapelle, des Vervilles, and des Mazey. They approach -those of Nuits in quality. Chassange wines are agreeable and fine; but their taste less franc. The same privileged locality produces wines scarcely inferior to those of the first class ; such as Le Morjot, and particularly its Clos et la Maltrou and Le Clos St. Jean. Aloxe, a league from Beaume. Its wines are full-bodied, fine, spirituous, and have some bouquet. The best vineyards are, Les Pougets, La Charlemagne, and Les Bressantes. They are little inferior to the wine of Corton. Savigny, near Beaume, fur- nishes wines which are of the kind and quality of the second pressings of Beaume; also ordi- nary wines of the first quality are made, but they do not keep. Blagny, in the district of Pu- ligny, gives fine wines and of good quality. Saute- nay, canton of Nolay, near Beaume. This vine- yard produces wines of good flavour, which keep a long time. The classes called Les Gravieres and Le Clos de Tavanne close the list of delicate wines. They resemble the second pressings of Beaume, Pomard, and Volnay. Chenove, near Dijon. The crus which can appear in this class are, Les Clos du Roi and Le Chapttre. Their wines have a good flavour, are very firm, and acquire by age much quality and a pleasant bouquet. The wines called de seconds cuvee, produced upon the lands of Vosne, de Nuits, de Volnay, de Pomard, de Beaume, de Chambolle, and de Morey, ought to appear in this class as wines demi-fins. The same vineyards also furnish vins ordinaires of the first and second quality, which are often sent out as vins fins in the countries where those of the best growths are not properly appreciated. Red Wines of the Fourth Quality. Mer- curey, canton of Souches. Under the wines of Mercurey are included those of Touches, Estroy, and. Bourgneuf. They are distinguished amongst the wines of the Cote Chalonnaise by their pleasant flavour, lightness, and perfume. They are the most natural flavoured of all this district, and keep a long time. The best are the most esteemed amongst the ordinary wines of the first quality. All the wines of the Cote Chalon- naise have little richness, but are of a dry flavour, which distinguishes them from those of Beaume, under which name they often appear in com- merce. Givry, two leagues from Chalons, has privileged crus superior to the first classes of Mercurey, viz., Les Boichevaux, Le Clos Salo- mon, Le Cellier, La Barude, and les vins rouges. The wines are very full-bodied, spirituous, and well flavoured. The other crus furnish some ordinary wines of the first quality, and many others of the second and third. The territory of Dijon contains some esteemed vineyards In the first rank are those of Marcs d'Or, which are ordinary wines of the first class. The crus