CHA [ 263 ] CHA lies down, and has one or more of tBe following operations performed upon him by some of his attendants, viz., toogi-toogi, mili, or fota. Of these terms the first implies a constant and gentle beating with the fist; the second, a rub- bing with the palm of the hand; and the third, a compressing and grasping of the integuments with the fingers and thumb. These operations are generally performed by females, and all con- tribute, we are assured, materially to relieve pain, lassitude, and fatigue, producing at the same time a soothing effect upon the system and disposition to sleep. When performed for the purpose of simply relieving fatigue or lassi- tude, the legs and feet, it would appear, are the parts generally operated upon; but, in cases of local pain, the part affected, or its immediate neighbourhood, perhaps, is selected. Thus, in headache, the skin of the forehead and the scalp in general are subjected to the fota, and often, we are told, with great effect. Sometimes, also, in cases of fatigue, a proceeding some- what different from any of these is adopted, three or four little children being employed to trample upon the body all over with their feet, to the relief and great comfort of the patient, who lies stretched naked on the ground. CHANGE OF AIR. The advantages which attend change of air in the treatment of various diseases have been ascribed by many physicians to the exhilarating impressions thus produced upon the mind, and to the simultaneous change of habits which usually takes place upon such occasions. We are willing to admit the ex- tensive and powerful operation of such causes in the treatment of diseases in general, but more particularly in those cases in which the digestive organs constitute the source of the derangement; for such affections are influenced by the state of the mind to an extent to which it would be diffi- cult to assign a limit. It therefore follows that, in the recommendation of a place of resort for invalids, various circumstances are to be taken into consideration : it is no less important to furnish amusement for the mind than to provide salubrious air and wholesome food for the body. A continual change of residence is, perhaps, better adapted for insuring our object than a protracted stay in any one place. The genial excitement which a succession of novelties pro- duces on the mind, to say nothing of the advan- tages which necessarily arise from the exercise of the body, is more likely to insure exhilaration and cheerfulness, and to break down the associa- tions which continued disease will always engen- der, than a monotonous residence in a watering place, where, after the first few days, the patient becomes familiarised with the objects around him, the spell by which he is to be cured is broken, and his mind is watching every pulsa- tion, in order to discover some indication of that returning health which he so anxiously antici- pates. This truth is beautifully illustrated by an anecdote related by Sydenham, and will go farther in establishing the importance of the principle we are desirous of enforcing than any argument which it is in our power to adduce. This great physician, having long attended a gentleman of fortune with little or no advantage, frankly avowed his inability to render him any farther service, adding, at the same time, that there was a physician of the name of Robinson, at Inverness, who had distinguished himself by the performance of many remarkable cures of the same complaint as that under which his patient laboured, and expressed a conviction that, if he applied to him, he would come back cured. This was too encouraging a proposal to be rejected : the gentleman received from Syden- ham a statement of his case, with the necessary letter of introduction, and proceeded without delay to the pface in question. On arriving at Inverness, and anxiously inquiring for the resi- dence of Dr. Robinson, he found, to his utter dismay and disappointment, that there was no physician of that name in the place, nor ever had been in the memory of any person there. The gentleman returned, vowing eternal hostility against the peace of Sydenham, and, on his arrival at home, instantly expressed his indignation, in no very measured terms, at having been sent so many hundred miles for no purpose. " Well," replies Sydenham, "are you better in health?" " Yes ; I am now perfectly well, but no thanks to you." " No," says Sydenham, " but you may thank Dr. Robinson for curing you. I wished to send you a journey with some object of interest in view; I knew it would be of service to you. In going you had Dr. Robinson and his wonder- ful cures in contemplation, and in returning you were equally engaged in thinkmg of scolding me." There was more wisdom and address in such a scheme than in that which is said to have been practised by Hippocrates, who sent his patients from Athens with no other object than to touch the walls of Megara, and then to return. CHANTILLY BASKET. Dip some ratafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to a caramel height; place them round the inside of a dish; then cut more ratafia cakes into squares, dip them also into sugar, and pile them cornerways on the row, and so on for two or three stories high ; line the inside with wafer paper, and fill it with sponge biscuits, sweetmeats, blanched almonds, or some made-cream; put trifle over that, and garnish the froth with rose leaves, coloured comfits, or caramel sugar thrown lightly over the top. CHAPPED HANDS. The chapping or