GIL GIL 553 tban true leaf-gold, and useful where large quantities of gilding are wanted, which can he defended from the weather, and where great nicety is not required ; hut it changes colour when exposed to moisture, and in all cases its beauty is soon impaired unless secured by varnish. The instruments necessary for gilding are the cushion, knife, tip, and fitch. The cushion, for receiving the leaves of gold from the books, is made by covering a board of about eight inches square with a double thicks ness of Hannel, and over that a piece of buff leather, and fastening it tightly round the edges. The Jcnife for cutting the leaves into the requisite sizes is made like a pallet knife, with an edge not too sharp. The tip, a tool made by fastening the long hairs of a squirrel's tail between two cards, is used for taking up the gold leaf after it is cut, and laying it on the article to be gilded. A /itch pencil is used for the same purpose as the last, in taking up very small bits of gold leaf. A ball of cotton is used for pressing down the leaf after it is laid on; a large camel's hair hrmh for dusting the work, and clearing away the superfluous gold. Oil Gilding. Piime your work first by brushing over it boiled linseed oil and white- lead. When dry do it over with a thin coat of gold size, consisting of stone ochre ground in fat oil. When that is so dry as to feel clammy it is fit for gilding. Spread your leaves of gold upon the cushion, cut them into slips of the proper width for covering your work, breathe upon your tip, as by moistening it thus it will cause it to take up the leaves from the cushion. Apply them by the tip on the proper parts of your work, and press them down by the ball of cotton. Eepair by putting small pieces of gold on any parts which you have omitted to cover. When your work is covered let it dry, and then clear it off with the brush. This sort of gilding, the easiest and least expensive, will stand the weather, and may at any time be cleaned with a little water. Burnished Gilding is the sort generally used for picture frames, looking-glasses, &c. The wood intended to be gilt in this manner should first be sized, and then done over with about eight coats of size and whiting, to cover it with a body of considerable thickness. Having laid a sufficient quantity of whiting upon the work, it must be cleaned off, freeing all the cavities and hollows from the whiting that may have choked them up, and by proper moulds and tools restoring the sharpness of the mouldings. It then receives a coat of size, made by boiling Armenian bole with parchment size. As this must not remain till it is quite dry, it is prudent not to lay on more at a time than can be gilt before it becomes too dry. The work being thus prepared, place it a little declining from you, and with clean water and a hair pencil moisten a part of it, and then apply the gold by the tip to the moistened part. The gold will immediately adhere closely to the work. Proceed to wet the next part, and apply the gold as before, repeating this operation till the whole is completed. Let not any drops of water come upou the gold already laid on; therefore no part should be missed in going over it at first, since it is not so easily mended as oil gilding. The work being thus gilt remains twenty-four hours, when the parts designed to be burnished are polished with a dog's tooth or an agate burnisher, but the gilding must not be quite dry when it is burnished. Japanners' Gilding. To gild japanned work draw with a hair pencil in gold size the in- tended ornaments, and afterwards apply gold leaf or gold powder. The gold size is prepared in the following manner:—Take of linseed oil and of gum animi 4 ozs. Boil the oil in a proper vessel, add the gum animi gradually in powder, stirring each quantity about in the oil till it be dissolved ; then put in another till the whole is mixed with the oil. Let the mixture continue to boil till it acquires a thicker con- sistence than tar; then strain the whole through a coarse cloth, and keep it for use ; but when applied it must be mixed with vermilion and oil of turpentine. Having laid on the gold size, and allowed it to dry, the gold leaf is applied in the usual way; or, if it is not wanted to shine so much, gold powder is applied, which is made by grinding gold leaf upon a stone with honey, and afterwards wash- ing the honey away with water. If the gilding is varnished Dutch gold may be used instead of real gold powder, or aurum miisivum may be used. To write on paper with letters of gold. Put gum arable into writing ink, and write in the usual way. When the writing is dry breathe on it; the warmth and moisture will soften the gum, and cause it to fasten on the gold leaf, which may be laid on in the usual way, and the superfluous part brushed off; or, instead of this, use japanners' size. To lay gold upon white earthenware or glass. Draw your design upon the vessel to be gilt with japanners' gold size, moistening it, if necessary, with oil of tui-pentine. Set your work in a room free from dust to dry for an hour; then place it so near the fire that you can just bear the heat of it with your hand for a few