CAB BUX [ 19^ ] ter, notwithstanding the fertility and beauty of the valleys. The climate is ungenial—the winter being severe, the spring tardy, and the sumnaer uncommonly rainy. With all these imperfections Buxton still possesses some advantages for the invalid, from the excellence of its accommoda- tions and roads; from the dryness of its soil, composed principally of limestone, which allows exercise immediately after rain; and from the turbulence even of its atmosphere, which pre- vents every mischief arising from stagnation of air. It has been long noted for its warm springs; and from the i-emains of Roman antiquity which have been discovered near it, it was probably in repute among the Romans. These springs issue to the day through small fissures in a hard, calcareous freestone. They are numerous, and supply a sufficiency of water for the la'^'ge con- sumption occasioned by the numerous baths, and the other purposes for which it is employed. The original fountain is St. Ann's Well, which is inclosed in an elegant stone building. The other springs are precisely similar in quality, and are received into a number of beautiful and convenient baths, both public and private. By evaporation to dryness Dr. Pearson found in a gallon of Buxton water only 14J grains of residuum, of which he estimates If grain to be muriate of soda, 2J grains to be sulphate of lime, and 10^ grains to be carbonate of lime. It had often been observed that in this spring a quantity of elastic fluid was discharged with the water, and that a portion escaped from the water itself on exposure. This was supposed to be carbonic acid; but Dr. Pearson ascertained it to be nitrogen gas, or azote, mixed with a little atmospheric air, the volume of air amount- ing to about l-64th of the water. Buxton water is thus remarkably pure, and differs from common spring water only in its temperature and the small quantity of azotic gas which it holds in solution. In sensible properties it cannot be distinguished from com- mon spring water, heated to the same tempera- ture. It is quite clear and colourless, does not become turbid on exposure to the air, leaves no deposit, and is entirely devoid of smell or taste. Its temperature in the gentlemen's bath is in- variably 82°. As this heat is several degrees below that of the human body, there is a slight shock of cold felt on the first immersion into the Buxton bath ; but it is succeeded almost immediately by a pleasurable and soothing glow. On account of the slightness of this shock this bath is well adapted to renovate the strength of delicate habits, and to prepare them for the mors powerful i-emedy of sea-bathing. For this pur- pose it should be used two hours before dinner, and gentle exercise in the open air should be taken after it. Buxton water is employed largely both in external and internal use. As an internal remedy it has afforded considerable relief in defective digestion and derangement of the ali- mentary organs, consequent upon a life of high indulgence and intemperance, and in painful affections of the kidneys and bladder connected with the formation of calculus. It appears to produce various effects on the bowels; not un- frequently a diarrhoea, or looseness, succeeds, for a few days, its use; but more commonly consti- pation follows. The former is a salutary symp- tom, and must not be checked. The latter is injurious, and must be removed by aperient medicines, especially in those habits where the action of the alimentary canal is naturally slug- gish. Two glasses of about a third of a pint each, before brealifast, with a little gentle exer- cise interposed between, and the same quantity repeated between breakfast and dinner, form a proper course of Buxton water, which must be continued according to the duration of the disease. 0. CABBAGE: To Boil. Having cut your cabbage into quarters, boil it in plenty of water, with a handful of salt. When it is tender drain it on a sieve, but never press it. Savoys and greens are boiled in the same manner, but they should always be boiled by themselves. A tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda in the water makes them of a good green colour. You may, if you please, chop it and beat it with a piece of butter, pepper, and salt. CABBAGE AND BACON. Blanch a cab- bage, cut it in quarters, and put it into a stew- pan, with a piece of streaked bacon ; season it, moisten with water, and give it a boil; then let it stew over a moderate fire. When done dress the cabbage on a dish, with the bacon over it; reduce the liquor, and add to it a little butter, worked with some flour, and then serve it over the bacon and cabbage. CABBAGE BOILED AND STEWED. Cabbages are generally siraply tied round and' boiled. If you wish to stew them, cut a cabbage into four; boil it a quarter of an houi", with a piece of streaked bacon cut into bits, and the rind on. Afterwards change it in cold water, squeeze it well, and tie each quarter, that it may keep its form. Then stew it with some stock, salt, and pepper, a bunch of parsley and green onions, cloves, a little nutmeg, 2 or 3 roots, and the meat you intend to serve with it. When both the meat and cabbage are done wipe off the grease, and dish it for table (the streaked bacon on it), and serve with a sauce of good cullis, agreeably seasoned. The different pai'ta