I 420 ] they are not often dislocated. It does, however, sometimos happen, which is a sufficient reason for our taking notice of it. When a rib is dis- located either upwards or downwards, in order to replace it the patient should be laid upon his bell^' on a table, and the operator must endeavour to push tlie head of the bone into its proper place. Should this method not succeed the arm of the disordered side may be suspended over a gate or ladder, and while the ribs are thus stretched asunder the heads of such as are out of place may be thrust into their former situation. Those dislocations wherein the heads of the ribs are forced inwards are both more dangerous and the most difficult to reduce, as neither the hand nor any instrument can be applied internally to direct the luxated heads of the ribs. Almost the only thing that can be done is to lay the patient upon his belly over a cask or some gibbous body, and to move the fore part of the rib inward towards the back, sometimes shaking it: by this means the heads of the luxated ribs may slip into their former place. Dislocation of the shoulder. The humerus, or upper bone of the arm, may be dislocated in various directions; it happens, however, most frequently downwards, but very seldom directly upwards. From the nature of its articulation, as well as from its exposure to external injuries, this bone is the most subject to dislocation of any in the body. A dislocation of the humerus may be known by a depression or cavity on the top of the shoulder, and an inability to move the arm. When the dislocation is downwards or forwards the arm is elongated, and a ball or lunip is perceived under the armpit; but when it is backwards there appears a protuberance behind the shoulder, and the arm is thrown forwards towards the breast. - The usual method of reducing dislocations of the shoulder is to seat the patient upon a low stool, and to cause an assistant to hold his body so that it may not give way to the extension, while another lays hold of the arm a little above the elbow, and gradually extends it. The operator then puts a napkin under the patient's arm, and causes it to be tied behind his own neck: by this, while a sufficient extension is made, he lifts up the head of the bone, and with his hands directs it into its proper place. There are various machines invented for facilitating this operation, but the hand of an expert surgeon is always more safe. In young and delicate .patients it is a very easy matter to reduce the shoulder by extending the arm with one hand, and thrusting in the head of the bone with the other. In making the extension the arm ought .always to be a little bent. Dislocation .of the elbow. The bones of tlie fore-arrii may be dislocated in any direction. When this is the case a protuberance may be observed on that side of the arm towards which the bone is pushed, from which and the patient's inability to bend his arm a dislocation of this joint may easily be known. Two assistants are generally necessary for reducing a dislocation of the elbow : one of them must lay hold of the arm above, and the other below the joint, and make a pretty strong extension, while the operator returns the bones into their proper place. Afterwards the arm must be bent, and suspended for some time with a sling about the neck. Luxations of the wrist and fingers are to be reduced in the same manner as those of the elbow, viz., by making an extension in different directions, and thrusting the head of the bone into its place. Dislocation of the clavicle, or collar-hone. The clavicle may be luxated at the end next the breast-bone extremity, forwards, backwards, and upwards, but never downwards, on account of the situation of the cartilage of the first rib. The luxation forward is most frequent, and almost the only one ever met with. In reducing these dislocations of the sternal end of the clavicle a lever is to be made of the arm, by means of which the shoulder is to be brought outwards, and when thus brought out- wards it is to be pushed forwards if the dis- location be in that direction, backward if the dislocation be behind, and upward if it be above. It is as difficult to keep the bone reduced as it is easy to reduce it, so smooth and oblique are the articular surfaces. Disloca- tions of the capsular end of the clavicle, or that nearest the shoulder-joint, are muchless common. The luxation upwards is the only one that ever occurs, and this is reduced by carrying the shoulder outwards, putting a cushion in the axilla, and applying a proper bandage, as in fractures of this bone, making the turns ascend from the elbow to the shoulder, so as to press the luxated end of the bone downward, and keep it in its due situation, at the same time that the elbow is confined close to the side, and supported in a sling, by which means the shoulder will be kept raised and inclined outwards. Dislocation of the patella, or knee-pan. This bone may be luxated outwards, or even inwards when violently pushed in this direction. The dislocation outwards is the more frequent. The generality of cases of this description are easily reduced by pressure when the extensor muscles of the leg have been completely relaxed; but, owing to a lax state of the ligament of the patella, or other predisposing causes, the bone is sometimes with difficulty retained in its proper position unless a roller be applied.