t 1^1 ] BO U BO U BOUCHfiES, GENTLEMEN'S. Pound a stick of vanilla with 2 ozs. of powder sugar, and then sift it; m^x with it 7 ozs. additional of powder sugar and ^ lb. of sifted flour ; add to these the whites of 4 eggs, whipped firm, and work them together till the paste is very smooth and soft. Heat two copper plates, rub them over with v;ax, and then wipe them; when cold lay the paste with a knife in pieces about the size of a filbert, shaped quite round; leave a space of three quarters of an inch between them. When the plates are full put them on stools in an oven, so that they can receive no heat from below ; put a stove with hot coals on the top of the oven, and let them remain in this state for twenty-four hours; then put them for fifteen or twenty minutes into a moderate stove. Take them from the plates whilst hot, and as soon as cold finish them in the same way as Ladies' BoucHEES. Glaze them with chocolate d la rose, with pistachios, orange cedrat, &c. They may also be marked with sugar, pistachios, cur- BOUCHfiES, ICED. Roll some puff-paste to about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and, with a plain round paste-cutter of two inches diameter, cut out as many cakes as you may require; then, with a small cutter, take out the middle of half the number, so as to make rings of them; moisten the edges of the former, and lay the rings on them; wet them, also, as you lay them down; sprinkle them lightly with powder sugar, and bake them in a brisk oven. These bouchees require great attention in baking, as the sugar is apt to dissolve and colour too quickly. When done they will be of a reddish tinge. Fill them with sweetmeats, preserves, or whipped cream, according to fancy. BOUCHEES, LADIES'. Mix with 6 eggs J lb. of sugar, 3 ozs. of potato-flour, a little salt, and a pinch of dried orange flowers ; beat them well together, and, having buttered a tin, lay your paste upon it, and bake it in a gentle oven for an hour. When done cut it in pieces about the size of a crown piece, and glaze them; mark them according to your pleasure, and dry them in the oven. BOUCHEES, PEARL. Yourbouchees being made and baked as above, whip the whites of 2 eggs to a firm froth, and mix them with 4 spoonsful of sifted sugar, and, when very smooth, mark your bouchees with it; then take some white of egg, and with the point of a knife drop it in pearls about the size of a grape- stone round each bouchee, half an inch apart; sprinkle them lightly with sugar, and dry the egg in the oven; take care they do not lose their whiteness. When cold place between each pearl a smaller one of red currant jelly; fill your boachees with apricot marmalade, apple jelly, &c. If, however, the jelly, or whatever else you may use, be of a red colour, your inter- mediate pearls should be composed of light- coloured preserve, such as apricot marmalade, &c. These should be pearled a few at a time only. - BOUILLON. Three or four pounds of beef are sufficient for an ample provision of soup and bouilli for a family of from six to eight in number. Indeed, if what remains after dinner is not to be re-stewed for stock, there ought to be sufficient left to make a pleasant soup for the second day, with the addition of a strong vegetable broth, made from roots in winter or from dried herbs in summer. BOUQUET (in Cookeet) is a hunch of parsley and green onions or scallions tied to- gether to put in ragotits, &c. It is called a bouquet garni when thyme, basil, and bay leaf are added to it. BOUQUETS OF FLOWERS. We are indebted for the following to one of the weekly numbers of " The Cottage Gardener." What is the Parisian's secret of making up a bouquet? Nothing can be more simple, being no more than a bit of string adroitly used. This string is attached to the very first flower used in the formation of a bouquet; as soon as one or two more flowers are added, the string is passed round them a few times, and then held by the thumb till another is pressed against it, which keeps it in its place. In this way the flowers are continued, and the string is passed round every fresh layer, so to speak, till the whole bouquet is completed. It will be easily per- ceived, that according to this plan, it is easy to keep the flowers in their places, and yet turn the bouquet with perfect ease in any direction that may be required, while, at the same time, there is little or no probability of the flowers dropping out, because they are all tied to one another. In order to command every facility of turning and examining the bouquet while in course of construction, it is sometimes stuck upon an iron prong secured to a dressing-board, and this latter expedient enables the person making it up to use both hands in arranging and separating the flowers of which the bouquet is being made. It also enables him to put it down and take it up at any moment, and it is always easy to secure the string by giving it a few extra turns. The string used in the formation of a bouquet is fine and strong; not thick, because the under part of the bouquet would be clumsy and difficult to grasp ; not too fine, because it would be always liable to break. A line sort of whipcord is very good for the purpose; so, also, is the fancy cord generally used in shops. But descriptions, to be of any use in some things, can only be car-