BAL BAL [ 61 1 SO lbs of clay; make them into a stiff mass ■with water, and form it into balls about as large as a middling-sized orange When thoroughly dried they are fit for use. Some of them are to be put on the fire, when it is burning freely, a little above the top bar. They become in- tensely hot, and render the addition of more fuel unnecessary for some hours. BALLS, FORCEMEAT. See Forcemeat. BALLS, FURNITURE. Melt in an earthen pot or pipkin 1 lb. of beeswax. When melted put into the liquid ^ oz. of alkanet root, tied up in a piece of thick muslin; squeeze this, and when it has given enougli colour, take the pipkin off from the fire, and add \ pint of linseed oil, and the same quantity of spirit of turpentine. Pour it into a tube, formed of wetted pasteboard. When cold it is a roll or cylinder which may be rubbed in very small quantity on the flannel with which furniture is to be polished. BALLS, SCOURING. Beat together tho- roughly in a mortar 1 lb. of soft-soap and 1 lb. of fullers' earth. Form the mass into balls or cakes. Effectual for removing grease spots from, and otherwise cleaning carpets and other coarse woollen fabrics. Damp the grease spot, or the surface to be cleansed, rub it with the ball, allow it to dry, and then rub well with a little warm water applied by a flannel. BALLS, SWEET, are carried in the pocket, or worn as bracelets for the sake of their perfume. Mr. Cooley gives the following directions for making them:— I. Florentine orris root, 3 ozs. ; cassia, 1 oz.; cloves, rhodium wood, and lavender flowers, of each, ^ oz.; ambergris and musk, of each, 6 grains; oil of verbena, 10 drops. Make them into balls with mucilage of gum tragacanth made with rose water II. Gum benzoin and styrax, of each, 1 oz. ; cloves and cassia, of each, \ oz.: musk and civet, 5 grains ; balsam of Peru, oil of verbena, oil of rhodium, otto of roses, and true neroli, of each 10 drops; Florentine orris root, 2 ozs. Re- duce the dry articles to powder, then add the essences, and make the whole into balls with essence of jasmine, jonquil, violet, and tuberose, of each, equal parts. III. Plaster of Paris, 4 ozs.; sandal wood, cyperus root, and cloves, of each, ^ oz.; gum benzoin and styrax, of each, 1 oz.; ivory-black, 2 ozs.; musk and civet, of each, 1 scruple ; ambergris, 10 grains ; balsam of Peru, | oz.; oil of cassia, 10 drops; oi) of rhodium, ^ drachm; essence of jasmine, \ oz.; essence of neroli, J drachm ; otto of roses, 15 drops; mucilage made with orange-flower water to mix. Make them into beads, and pierce them while soft.— iCyclopadia of Receipts?) BALLS, WASH, differ only from other soaps by being globular, and streaked with various colours. We advise that none streaked with deep scarlet be used, because that colour is obtained from some preparation, either of mer- cury or lead To prepare these balls cut some moist white Windsor soap into slices, and roll the slices in red bole, in powdered blue, or in a mixture of powdered blue and yellow ochre, accordingly as red, blue, or green streaks are required. Squeeze the slices of soap tightly together in a globular form. BALM BEER. Eleven gallons of water and 10 lbs. of brown sugar are to be clarified with the whites of 12 eggs, carefully skimmed and boiled till nearly reduced to 10 gallons; 2^lbs. of the yellow flower of lemon-balm being put into a cask, the liquor, when milk warm, is to be poured over it, and 4 or 5 table-spoonsful of thick yeast added. The cask must be filled up morning and evening with what works over it, and bunged lip when the fermentation ceases. In a month the beer may be bottled, and in two or three months it will be fit for drinking. Half the quantity of the flower of lemon-balm will pro- bably be found to communicate a flavour suf- ficiently strong if added when the fermentation is nearly over. BALM OF GILEAD, called also halm oj Mecca, opobalsamum, and other names, is be- lieved to be the " balm " of the Old Testament, and to be produced by a tree, the Balsamo- dendron Gileadense, a native of Arabia, though some botanists consider it a species of Amyris. This balm or balsam is very fragrant, the colour of honey, and about as thick as turpentine. It is so highly prized by the Turks that it is monopolised by them, being used as a cure for wounds, as a cosmetic, and for other purposes. Dr. Solomon's halm of Gilead was celebrated as a quack medicine at the commencement of the present century, and it appears to have been nothing more than a spirituous and aromatic tincture, in which cardamoms and cantharides were ingredients. BALM WINE. Boil 20 lbs. of lump sugar in 4|^ gallons of water gently for an hour, and put it into a tub to cool. Bruise 2 lbs. of the tops of green balm, and put them into a barrel with a little new yeast, and when the syrup is nearly cold pour it on the balm; stir it well together, and let it stand twenty-four hours, stirring frequently; bring it up, and when it has stood for six weeks, bottle it. Put a lump of sugar into each bottle; cork it tight. The longer it is kept the better it will be. BALSAM OF HONEY is used for coughs, and is made of balsam of Tolu, 1 oz.; powdered opium, J drachm; honey, 4 ozs. ; rectified sftirit, 1 pint. Mix, and take a tea-spoonful when the cough is troublesome