[ 554 ] GIN GIL seconds; let it remain there till it feels clammy; then lay some gold leaf on in the usual way, and put the ware into an oven to be baked for about three hours. Glasses, &c., are gilt by drawing the figures with shell gold mijfed with gum arabic and borax ; then apply sufficient heat to it, and, lastly, burnish it. To make shell gold. Grind up in a mortar gold leaf with honey; then wash away the honey with water, and mix the gold powder with gum water. This may be applied to any article with a camel's hair pencil in the same way as any other colour. GILDING : To Revive. Gilding, whether on picture frames or other articles, may be re- vived by the following mixture :—Beat up 3 ozs. of the white of egg with 1 oz. of common salt. Apply the mixture by the aid of a soft brush of camel's hair. GILLIFLOWERS, SYRUP OF. Gather the flowers early in the morning, pick them clean, and cut the white from the red. To a quart of flowers put two quarts of spring water, let it stand for two days in a cold place, and, after boiling it till it comes to a quart, strain it off, put in i lb. of double-refined sugar, and boil it up again for three or four minutes ; pour it into a china basin, let it cool, and when it is quite cold skim it. Put it into bottles, cork them well, and tie them down with leather. GIN. This spirit, so favoured among Englishmen, originally came to us from the Dutch, and was thence called hollands and hollands-genievre. The last word was corrupted into geneva, and finally contracted into gin. In France and in Bi'abant gcnievre is the name for juniper, the berries of which are used to give this spirit a flavour; and hollands-genievre, if intei'preted, meant the Dutch junipered spirit. Scheidam is a name applied to gin from a town in Holland so called, where a large quantity was manufactured. Gin has for its chief ingredient spirit distilled from fermented com, and its flavour is princi- pally derived from the oil of juniper berries dissolved in it. Juniper berries alone, however, will not impart the taste preferred by English palates, and the following recipe tells its own tale on this point:—Mix together 80 gallons of corn spirit; oil of turpentine, i pint; oil of junipei', 3 ozs.; creosote, 2 drachms ; oranges and lemons, of each nine, cut in slices ; and water, 35 gallons. Let the mixture remain for a week, and then distil off" 100 gallons of it. The turpentine gives what is called a ^j/a»i gin flavour, the creosote gives a slight taint of smokiness, and the lemons, &c., give a creami- ness and richness. It is a lamentable fact that the popular taste for gin is scarcely more than a hundred years old, for it was only at the commencement of the last century that it was discovered that a palatable liquor could be distilled from malt. There is no doubt that English gin, when properly manufactured, a circumstance not very common, indeed, is a most excellent diuretic, especially when it agrees with a patient, which it most generally does. A deficiency of urine attends many complaints, and it is always better to procure a regularity in the discharges by diet than by medicine. British gin diluted will be found most beneficial in those cases where the discharge of urine is languid or imperfect. Hollands gin will not be found so beneficial, as it wants as a component the essential oil of juniper berries. Hollands is, indeed, often entirely free from it, being flavoured only by the empyreuma it receives from the ashes em- ployed to rectify the spirit. The gin of this country also differs very much in its diuretic property, some juniper berries being more pro- ductive of essential oil than others, and many dis- tillers make use of other aromatics, as coriander seeds, &c., with a small proportion of juniper berries. It would be invidious to recommend any particular distilled spirit as being of a superior quality: it must be tasted and ap- proved by its effects, as the only means of as- certaining its medicinal virtue. GINGER. This is the fleshy, creeping root- stock of the Zingiber officinale, a native of the East and West Indies. The plant grows some- what in the form of the lily of the valley, but rises to the height of about three feet. In Jamaica ginger attains its full height, flowers about August or September, and fades about the close of the year. When the stalks are entirely withered the roots are in a proper state for digging. This is generally jDerformed in the months of January and February. After being dug they are picked, cleansed, and gradually scalded in boiling water. They are then spread out, and exposed every day in the sun till sufficiently dried, and, after being divided into parcels of about 100 lbs. weight each, they are packed in bags for the market. This is called the black ginger. White ginger is the root of the same plant, but instead of the roots being scalded, by which they acquire the dark appearance of the former, each root is picked, scraped, separately washed, and afterwards dried with great care. Of course more than a double expense of labour is incurred, and the market price is proportionably greater. Black ginger loses part of its essential oil by being thus im- mersed in boiling water. On this account it is less useful for medical and other purposes than the white, which is always good when perfectly sound and free from worm holes ; but that im- ported from the East Indies is stronger than