[ 70 ] BAR BAR and put to the water a handful of scallions, and of tormentil, hyssop, agrimony, horehound, maiden- hair, sanicle, betony, borage, bugloss, rosemary, marigolds, sage, violets, and cowslips, of each 1 pint when picked; 1 lb. of raisins, stoned; i lb. of figs, cut; i lb. of dates, stoned; ^ lb. of green liquorice; caraway, fennel, and aniseed, of each 1 oz.; hartshorn, ivy, elecampane roots, of each 1 oz. ; the roots of fennel, asparagus, couch-grass, polypodium, and oak parsley, of each a handful. Clean, bruise the seeds, slice the roots, and put all into the barley water; cover close, and boil gently for twelve hours; then strain and press out the juice, and let it stand twenty-four hours. When clean, add to it rose water and hyssop, | pint of each and 1 pint of clarified juice of coltsfoot, 1 drachm of saf- fron, 3 pints of the best honey, and 5 lbs. of sugar. Boil this an hour and a half, keeping it well scummed ; then bottle it; cork it well, and put by for use. BARLEY WATER (1). Put 1 oz. of pearl barley into i pint of water, and set it over the fire. When hot, pour off the water, and add 1 quart of fresh to the barley; let it simmer for an hour. If too thick put in more water, hut let it be warm. BARLEY WATER (2). Wash 9 table- spoonsful of pearl barley; then add to it 1 pint of boiling water, and let it boil for five minutes. Pour away this water, and add to the barley !i quarts of boiling water, and boil until only 2^ pints remain ; then strain it. This is plain barley water, but it may be made very agree- able by adding 1 oz. of figs, 2 ozs. of raisins, and i oz. of liquorice, boiling the liquor until reduced to 1 quart, and then straining for use. If 1 quart more boiling water be put upon the same barley, together with the peel of a lemon, boiled for a quarter of an hour, strained, and the juice of the lemon added, a very refreshing drink will be formed, but, of course, not so nourishing as that first made. BARLEY WINE, or Ale, is made of 14 quarters of pale malt, mashed at three times with 28, 18, and 18 barrels of water, boiled with 112 lbs. of hops, set with 36 lbs. of yeast. Cleanse with 4 lbs. of salt, and it produces 34 barrels, or 1 gallon 1 pint of ale from each gallon of malt. BARM. See Yeast. BAROMETER, or Weather Glass, shows really the weight of-the atmosphere pressing on the earth at the time of the observation. The average amount of this pressure at London is equal to supporting 29-88 inches of mercury in the glass tube of the barometer. This is so near to 30 inches that, e.xcepting where very great accuracy is required, 30 inches is assumed as the annual average. The mercury rises with N.E. and falls with S.W. winds. At London, with a Inches N. wind, the barometer averages 29 89 N.E. „ 20-9.5 E. „ 29-88 S.E. „ 29-78 S. „ 29-69 S.W. „ 29-73 W. „ 29-81 N.W. „ 29-84 The lower the barometer, that is, the less pressure there is at the time from the atmo- sphere, so in proportion does water boil at a lower temperature. One consequence of this is that eggs require then to be boiled longer; and, evidently from the same cause, we have noticed that, permanently, eggs required to be boiled longer when we were living on a hill of about 400 feet elevation than when we lived in a neighbouring valley. We annex such rules as have hitherto been found most useful in ascertaining the changes of the weather by means of the barometer. 1. The rising of the mercury presages in general fair weather; and its falling, foul weather, as rain, snow, high winds, and storms. 2. In very hot weather, especially if the wind is south, the sudden falling of the mercury foretells thunder. 3. In winter the rising indicates frost; and in frosty weather, if the mercury falls three or four divisions, there will follow a thaw; but if it rises in a continued frost, snow may be expected. 4. When foul weather happens soon after the falling of the mercury, it will not be of long duration; nor are we to expect a continuance of fair weather when it soon succeeds the rising of the quicksilver. 5. If, in foul weather, the mercury rises considerably, and continues rising for two or three days before the foul weather is over, a continuance of fair weather may be expected to follow. 6. In fair weather, when the mercury falls much and low, and continues falUng for two or three days before rain comes, much wet must be expected, and probably high winds. 7. The unsettled motion of the mercury indicates changeable weather. 8. Respecting the words engraved on the register-plate of the barometer, it may be ob- served, that they cannot be strictly relied upon to correspond exactly with the state of the weather; though it will in general agree with them as to the mercury rising and falling. The words deserve to be particularly noticed when the mercury removes from ''changeable" up- wards; as those on the lower part should be adverted to when the mercury falls from " change-