COI COI [ 339 ] Sechsling, a copper coin of Hamburg of 6 pfennigs. Sennis or Cashes are small pieces of iron, copper. Of brass, having a square hole in the middle, through which, as in China, they are strung on a wire or thread in various numbers, 600 of the smallest being reckoned for a tale. Sequin or Zecchin, Italian, called also Gi- gliato, a gold coin of Venice, Genoa, Rome, Milan, Piedmont, and Tuscany, of the average value of 9s. 5d. Sequin or Checqueen, Turkish. The gold coins of Turkey are the sequin funducli, with halves and quarters; the double sequin, or yermee- beeshlik, the misseir, and the rubich. There are other sequins beside the above, which bear different names, and their values also vary ac- cording to the periods of their coinage. Sesthalf, or 5^-stiver piece, a base silver coin in Holland, or base shilling ; value, 5 Jd. Shahee or Shatree, a Persian silver coin, the half of the mamoodi. Shilling, English silver coin, weighs 87-27 grains, and contains 80-727 grains of pure silver. Shoe of gold, an ingot used as money in China. The name is English. Kelly, speaking of China (vol. i., p. 67), says, " Gold is not considered as money, but as merchandise. It is sold in regular ingots of a determined weight, which the English call shoes of gold. The largest of these weigh 10 tales each, and the gold is reckoned 94 touch, though it may be only 92 or 93." Sixpence, English silver coin, half a shilling. Shilling. See Schilling. Slant, a copper coin of Sweden, single and double, of 1 and 2 ore silver, or 3 and 6 ore koppar. Soldo, a small copper coin of Italy. There are half-soldi and quattrini, the fifth part of a soldo. Sou or Sol, a money of account and copper coin in Franco and Switzerland, of the value of 12 deniers. Souverain or Severin, a gold coin, chiefly coined in tho Netherlands when subject to Austria. Its value was 13s. lOd. Sovereign, English gold coin, weighs 123-274 grains, and contains 113,001 grains of pure gold. Stamhouly, a Constantinopolitau coin, current at Bassora for 20J^ mamoodies. Stiver, a money of account and copper coin in Holland and the Netherlands, containing 2 groots Flemisli, or 8 duyts, or doits. Stooter, a small Butch silver coin at 2^ stivers. Sware or ScJiware, a money of account and copper coin of Bremen. The smallest piece there current. Syfert, a copper coin of Embden at 5 wittens; 108 go to the rix-dollar. Talaro, a silver coin of Tuscany, Ragusa, and Venice. At Ragusa it is or was the highest silver coin, worth 3s. If d. sterling. It had also the names of vislino and Ragusina. Tale. See Cash. Taro, a money of account and copper coin of Naples, Sicily, and Malta, of the value of 4d.; 12 go to the scudo or Sicilian dollar. There are pieces of 4 and 2 tari. Testone or Testoon, a silver coin in Italy, and also in Portugal. In Italy the testone of Bologna is rated at 30 soldi; at Parma the testone is of 6 lire 6 soldi; at Rome of 6 paoli. Kelly gives the sterling value at a little more than Is. 3d. The assay value of the Portugal testoon he gives at something more than 6d. See Vintem. Thaler, the ordinary name in Germany for the rix-dollar. Veinten de Oro. See Coronilla. Vintem. At Lisbon there are silver Portu- guese coins current of 6 vintems, or 120 roes. At Rio de Janeiro, in Brazil, there are vintems of copper also current for 20 rees, with half and quarter vintems, and two-viutem pieces. Xeraphin. See Pardo. Zlot, a Polish coin worth nominally 15 kopeks, but passing current for 60 kopeks. It is worth 9d. English. Zolotta or Izelotta, a Turkish silver coin of 30 paras. COINDET'S PILLS are very effective in cases of scrofulous tumours and ulcers. Mix 1 grain of prot-iodide of mercury with 20 grains of extract of liquorice. Divide the mass into 8 pills. Take 2 pills three or four times daily. COINS, IMPRESSIONS FROM. Avery easy and elegant way of taking the impressions of medals and coins, not generally known, is as follows:—Melt a little isinglass glue with brandy, and pour it thinly over the medal, so as to cover its whole surface ; let it remain on for a day or two till it has thoroughly dried and hardened, and then take it off, when it will be fine, clear, and as hard as a piece of Muscovy glass, and will have a very elegant impression of the coin. It will also resist the effects of damp air, which occasions all other kinds of glue to soften and bend if not prepared in this way.— {Shaw.) If the wrong side of the isinglass be breathed on, and gold leaf applied, it will adhere, and be seen on the other side producing a very pleasing effect. Isinglass glue made with water alone will do nearly as well as if brandy be used. Medals may also be copied by surrounding them with a hoop of paper, and pouring on them plaster of Paris (mixed with water to the con- sistence of cream) to the depth of about half an