[ 290 ] CHI CHI somme or stock; put the cases in a baking-pan, and bake them. When done put them on a dish with the other parts of the chickens (which must be trussed with tlie head under the skin of the breast), and pour over the whole some veal gravy and some lemon-juice. CHICKENS A LA CHEVALIERE. Choose two fat chickens, raise the white part, lard it, and heat it; then cut it up, and, having warmed some butter in a stewpan, put the pieces into it, and leave them on the fire a minute or two, and toss them (still over the fire) until they are hard; sprinkle them with flour well mi.xed with butter; add some hot stock, 4 spoonsful of well-skimmed veloute, parsley, seal lions, and pepper, and let it boil. When nearly done put in some equal-sized onions, peeled, and skim it. On serving take out the parsley, place the pieces of chicken on a dish, and strain the sauce over them, having thickened it with the yolks of 3 eggs. CHICKENS A LA CREME. Stuff and roast your chickens, and when you take them from the spit rub them with butter, cover them with bread crumbs, wrap them in slices of bacon, and bake them a short time. Serve with well- thickened cream sauce. CHICKENS, CROQUETTES OF. Re- duce 2 spoonsful of veloute or sauce tournee, and add to it the yolks of 4 eggs; put to this the white meat of a chicken minced very small, and well mixed with the sauce ; take it out, and roll it into balls about the size of a walnut; roll them in bread crumbs, giving them an elongated form; then dip them in some well-beaten egg, bread them again, and fry them of a light brown. CHICKENS WITH ENDIVE. Having picked and washed a dozen heads of endive, blanch them. When they have drained on a sieve for a few minutes rub them through it with a wooden spoon ; then let them drain again an hour or two, and stir them well into a stew- pan with a little butter. When it begins to fry add some consomme, reduce it, put some cream sauce in, and boil it till thick; then mix in the yolks of 2 eggs ; place this in the middle of the dish, and, having prepared your fillets, arrange them on the endive with bechamel sauce. CHICKENS A L'EXCELLENCE. Make a ragout as follows :—Slice a J lb. of pickled pork, and let it stand over the fire in some water till nearly done; then add to it some fat livers, truffies, shallots, and parsley chopped, whole pepper, and 1 glass of white wine; thicken with the yolks of 2 eggs. When cold put some of this under the skins of two fat chickens, and the remainder into the body; give them a turn or two in the frying-pan in some lemon-juice; then wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. In the meantime put some slices of bacon, ham, veal, carrots, parsnips, onions sliced, parsley, thyme, bay leaf, and a spoonful of oil into a stewpan closely covered for half an hour; then add 1 glass of white wine, the same of stock, and braise them an hour and a half; skim and strain it; put some shallots, butter, and flour to it, and serve it on tlie chickens. CHICKENS, FRICASSEED. Skin your chickens, and cut them into small pieces, after which wash them in warm water, and thoroughly dry them with a cloth; season them with salt and pepper, and put them into a stewpan with a little water, a large piece of butter, a bunch of thyme and sweet marjoram, an onion stuck with cloves, a little lemon pickle, a glass of wine, an anchovy, and a little mace and nutmeg. When the chickens have stewed till they are tender take them up, and lay them in your dish. Thicken your gravy with butter rolled in flour, and strain it. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, and mix them with a gill of rich cream; put this into your gravy, and shake it over the fire till it is quite hot, but do not suffer it to boil. Poui- this over your chickens, and serve them up. Garnish with sliced lemon. CHICKENS, FRICASSEED (White). Skin, cut up your chickens, and lay them in warm water; then stew them till tender in water, with lemon-peel, white wine, an anchovy, an onion, two or three cloves, and sweet herbs ; take out the chickens when done, strain the liquor, and put a very little of it to a ^ pint of cream, 4ozs. of butter, and a little flour; stir it over the fire till the butter be melted ; then put the chickens in again; add some grated lemon-peel, pounded mace, lemon-juice, and mushroom powder. Shake all over the fire, and serve very hot. CHICKENS, FRIED (German Way). Lay them in a marinade of lemon, parsley branches, allspice, and salt; let them lie in it an hour; drain, and shake them in a cloth with flour. When the fat is ready put them in, and give them a fine colour. Dish them upon any nice sauce, and fiy six eggs or any other garnish, and dish over them, or serve upon fried parsley. CHICKENS HISTORIES. Preimre chick- ens as for roasting, and having given them a turn or two over the fire in a little butter, with the addition of lemon-juice to preserve their whiteness, take them out and wipe them clean; peel a large onion carefully, and cut it in thin slices so as to preserve the rings, of which take two or three, dip them in the white of egg, and place them on the breasts in such forms as you may think proper; lay in these rings prepara- tions of any colour you please, basting the chicken with white of egg to make the colour adhere properly; then cover them with thin