FLO [ 513 ] FLO alone. Flowers will remain much longer fresh and in beauty under a glass shade than if ex- posed to the air. Camellias will remain foir a month, or even six weeks, quite perfect under a shade, and, of course, their stems supplied with water. The ends of the stems of cut flowers, about a quarter of an inch, should be cut off when they begin to droop, and two or three drops of spirit of hartshorn added to the water; or they may be dipped into boiling water as before directed. FLOWERS: To Dry. Talce some fine white sand (that called silver sand is the best), wash it repeatedly until all dirt is removed, and the water remains clear. Next dry it thoroughly, and fill a vase, a stone flower-pot, or a glass half full of the sand ; in this stick fresh-gathered flowers in their natural position, and afterwards cover them gently with the sand, taking care not to damage the petals. Now place the vessel in the sun, or in a room where a constant fire is kept, and let it remain until the flowers are perfectly dry. Then remove the sand carefully, and clean the leaves with a feather-brush. You must gather your flowers for this purpose when they are dry, that is, after the dew has evapo- rated. The process succeeds best with single flowers, but the difficulty attending such double ones as pinks, carnations, &c., may be obviated by splitting the cup on each side, and when the flower is quite dry the incision made to adhere by means of gum water; or the cup may be pricked around with a pin to let out the moisture. Some flowers lose their natural lively colour by this process, but it may be restored as follows :— Roses and other flowers of a delicate colour should be exposed to a moderate vapour of brimstone; but crimson or scarlet flowers should be placed in a vapour of the solution of tin in spirits of nitre. The green leaves and stems are renovated by the vapour produced from a solution of steel filings in spirit of vitriol. When dried the scent of each particular flower may be artificially renewed by dropping into the middle of it some of its essential oil; thus oil of cloves will scent the pink, oil of roses the rose, oil of jasmine the jasmine, &c., and by tliis means a bouquet of flowers is ob- tained all through the winter months. FLOWERS : To Extract their Perfume. Take a quantity of the petals of any flower that has an agreeable flavour; have thin layers of cotton wool, and dip them into fine Florence oil ; sprinkle a little salt on the flowers, and place layers of the oiled cotton and flowers alternately in an earthen or wide-mouthed glass vessel until it is quite full. Tie the top tightly with a bladder, and place the vessel in a south aspect or in a moderate heat for a fortnight: when opened a highly fragrant oil may be ex- tracted by pressure from the mass. FLOWERS, CHEMISED. Prepare them as for caramel in every respect, but have some- thing firm and soft to stick them upright in ; dip them in nice prepared isinglass, or well- whipped white of egg; hold them over white paper, and sift over them double-refined sugar in the finest powder, which may be coloured to give more effect to the different flowers. These flowers are beautiful in caramel baskets. FLOWERS, PRALINEED. All flowers may be pralineed, which keep well in that state for making ices and jellies at all seasons. Weigh the flowers, pick and throw them into water, and wash and dry them. Have double the quantity of sugar brought to souffle, or blow; put in the flowers, and let it come again to the same height; take it off, and grain the sugar by rub- bing it to the sides of the pan. When that is accomplished set it in the stove or mouth of the oven to dry, sift over the sugar, and bottle the flowers. FLOWERS IN SUGAR. Clarify sugar to a caramel height, which may be known by dip- ping in a fork, and if it throws the sugar as fine as threads put in the flowers. Have ready some tea-cups, with the insides rubbed with sweet oil; put into each cup four table-spoonsful of the sugar and flowers, and when cold turn them out of the cups, and serve them to table piled one upon another. FLOWERS, WAX. The following articles should be laid upon the table before the making commences—a penknife, a pair of scissors, a jDiece of wire about three inches long, pointed at one end, and having a round knob of sealing- wax at the other, three or four smooth and slender rods of wood, a few sheets of wax of different colours, some wire of different sizes covered with green tissue paper for stems, and some very thin tin or brass to cut up into patterns. Some green wax should also be at hand in a melted state. A flower must be chosen for the first attempt whose parts are very simple and easily imitated —the common primrose, for instance, whose petals, or flower-leaves, are five in number, having in the centre five stamens, and being supported by a green calyx, or flower-cup. Take the blossom carefully to pieces without injuring any of its parts ; make the petals and calyx perfectly smooth by flattening them be- tween the leaves of a book, or by placing them under a warm flat iron, and then cut out patterns of the calyx and one of the petal of the tin. The patterns must correspond with the originals, for the least inaccuracy here would spoil the work. The tin patterns must next be laid upon the wax in the direction of the length