DYE [ ^41 ] DYE for a similar space of time, when it is to be taken out to inspect the state of the vat. This pattern, when first taken out, should be of a green colour, but instantly turn blue. If the green be bright and good the vat is to be stirred again, and then covered up, with the addition of a few handsful of bran. Three hours after the same operation is to be repeated, with the addition of more bran if necessary, when it is to be covered up for an hour and a half longer, and as soon as it subsides another specimen is to be immersed in it for an hour, when it must be examined to ascertain the state of the pastel. If the former be of a good green when taken out, and turns suddenly to a deep blue on being exposed to the air, another pattern is to be put in to dis- cover the effect of the vat, which, if the colour be sufficiently high, is to be filled with hot water, or (which is preferable if it can be pro- cured) with the liquor of an old madder vat, and then stirred again, Now the vat is to be once more covered for an hour, after which the stuffs to be dyed should be immersed. WoAD is the next article in the making of a blue colour. The mode of preparing i|; differs in no respect from the preceding one just desciibed, excepting that it is weaker, and yields less colour. Indigo is the last ingredient in dyeing blues. The vat is about five feet high, two feet in diameter, and somewhat narrower towards the bottom^being surrounded by a wall, and having a vacancy for the embers. Avat of this size requires from 2 lbs. to 5 lbs., or even 6 lbs. of indigo, and this operation is conducted as follows:—1. About 15 gallons of river water are put into a copper to boil for about half an hour, together with 2 lbs. of potash, 2ozs. of madder, and a handful of bran. 2. Immerse 2 lbs. of indigo in a pail of cold water, in order to separate the solid from the volatile particles, which will immediately rise to the surface. The watery liquor is then poured off, and the indigo settled at the bottoin of the pail should be triturated in an iron mortar, with the addition of a smalj quantity of hot water, which ought to be shaken from side to side ; and the floating particles of indigo, which are those most finely pounded, must be poured into another vessel. In this manner the indigo remaining in the mortar is continually reduced, fresh water being repeatedly added till the whole is pulverised so finely as to rise to the surface. The liquor which had, during the above-stated preparation, been boiling in the copper, is now poured into the vat, together with the indigo, when the whole is well stirred with a rake, the v;it closely covered, and surrounded with embers. If this operation is commenced in the afternoon the embera must be renewed in the evening, and also in the morning and evening of the following day, in the course of which they should be twice gently stirred. Similar measures ought to be pursued on the third day, in order to preserve a uniform heat and intimately mix the ingre- dients. A brassy scum will then be perceived to lise to the surface in several detached parts. By continuing the heat on the fourth day the scum becomes rnore coherent, and tlie froth occasioned by stirring the liquor appears blue, while the latter is of a deep green. As soon as it assumes this appearance the vat should be filled, for which purpose a fresh liquor must be prepared by putting 5 gallons of water into a copper, together with 1 lb. of potash and i oz. of madder. When these ingredients have boiled half an hour the decoction is poured into the vat, the whole well stirred, and if it produces much froth it will be in a proper state for work- ing the next day. This may likewise be ascer- tained by the brassy or scaly ci'ust which floats on the surface of the liquor, and farther, if on blowing or stirring the latter with the hand, it assumes a deep green colour, while the surface appears of a brownish blue. After the vats have been thus pi-epared the dyeing of woollen or silken stuffs is very easy, no other process being required than immersing them in warm water, wringing, and then steep- ing them in the VE^t for a longer or shorter time, according to the deepness of the colour intended to be imparted. The stuff should be occa sionally opened, that is, taken out of the vat, wrung oyer it, and exposed to the air for a minute or two till it becomes blue ; for it must be obsei-ved that in all the solutions of indigo, or other dyeing materials above described, the blue colour is produced only by exposure to the air, and the stuff on being first drawn out of the liquor always appears green, and will retain that tinge unless it be exposed to the air. In dyeing blue, therefore, it is necessary to let the colour thus change previously to a second immersion, that the shade may be the better distinguished, as dark blues require to be repeatedly dipped. The method of dyeing cotton or linen blue varies so little from that already described as to render any farther directions unnecessary. The next of the primitive colours to be considered is eed, of which there are many shades and varieties; but the principal are scarlet, crimson, and madder red. The process to be adopted for obtaining these colours essen- tially differs from that of blues, as the formed require a peculiar preparation of the stuffs to be dyed, on the exactness of which the good- ness of the colour in a great measure depends. These preparatory ingredients consist of alum, tartar, aquafortis, or a solution of tin in this acid. Galls and alkaline salts are also some-