[ 140 ] BRA BRA reason, also, it may, in times of scarcity, bo ad- vantageously employed in the making of common household bread. This is effected by previously boiling the bran in water, and then adding the whole decoction to the dough. Thus the bran will be sufficiently softened, and divested of its dry, husky quality, while the nutritive part is duly prepared for food. It is asserted that the increase in the quantity of bread, by the addi- tion of 14lbs. 14 ozs. «f bran to 56 lbs. of flour, is from 34 lbs. to 36 lbs. of bi'ead beyond what is produced by the common mode. In one in- stance 56 lbs. of flour with 14 lbs. 14ozs. of bran produced, on being weighed the next day, when cold, 106|^lbs. of bread; which is above half as much more than what is commonly made, and about twice the quantity obtained from a bushel of wheat when merely the fine flour is used. Bran is also an excellent detergent, or cleanser, employed instead of soap; and is used for such purpose by the calico printers. Bran tea is made by pouring boiling water upon bran, straining the liquor, and then sweetening it with honey; it is a popular remedy for a sore throat or hoarseness. A bmii bath, made by mixing a handful of bran with a pailful of hot water, is very softening for coughs and colds, if the feet be plunged in it. A similar mixture, strained, is very effectual for cleansing hair troubled with scurf or dandruff. BRANDY. An alcoholic liquid of some 50 per cent, strength, made by distilling wines. They are distinguislied from each other by their peculiar flavour or aroma, arising in part from essenuial oil previously existing in the fruits from which they are derived, and in part from products generated by fermentation and distil- lation. Hence a good judge of brandy can determine from what place it is derived; in other words, from what fruit, and may even distinguish minute shades of difference in the quality of different brandies from the same source. In Germany and elsewhere the term brandy {branntivein, burnt wine,) is applied to distilled liquors generally, derived from fer- mented grain, potatoes, grapes, and other fruit, but in the United States and in England it is usually restricted to distilled wines or the distilled marc of the grape. Among the ingredients in wines are sugar, gum, tartaric and acetic acids, free and com- bined, essential oils, extractive, &c. When they are distilled an oily substance accompanies the alcohol, called /ousel oil, which imparts a pe- culiar and usually disagreeable taste and odour to the liquor. This oil usually appears in greater quantity towards the end of the distil- lation, especially when a low temperature is employed, and hence may be obtained by dis- tilling the residue after the alcohol liquid is passed over. The fousel oil obtained by Auber- gier was a clear liquid of a highly penetrating odour, a sharp and highly disagreeable taste; was soluble in 1000 parts of water, and a single drop imparted the fousel taste to 15 gallons of well-flavoured brandy. Too little is known rela- tive to this substance to remove it perfectly in the manufacture of brandy, and the probability is that fousel oil from different sources will prove very different in compositions and proper- ties. Cognac and other French brandies owe their agreeable flavour to the smaller amount and less disagreeable nature of their fousel oil, so that the proper aroma of the wine is clearly perceptible in their odour and taste. French brandy as it comes from the still is perfectly colourless. The colour is either com- municated by mixture or by the cask. The mixture is either derived from oak shavings, or from catechu, or burnt sugar, or from charcoal and rice digested in malt spirit. French brandies are commonly distilled from weak or unsaleable wines, and much from wine lees, as the stalks, skins, and kernels, to which the skins give a pecuUar flavour, and afford an acrid oil. It is hence inferred by Aubergier that the various flavours of spirits arise from the fat oil in the skins of the fruit and grain, and that if skimmed all their spirits would afford the sawe flavour. The body of the still is three quarters filled, the head fitted to the body and worm, and the joints closed. The fire is brought on quick till the firs<; spirit begins to distil, when it is slack- ened, and kept at an equal degree. The liquor that runs from the worm is assayed either by the hydrometer, by observing the head, or throw- ing it on the still-head and applying a candle to it. When the vapour ceases to take fire a fresh can is applied to the worm, and the eau-de-vie seconde is collected separately; but for home use the seconds are allowed to mix with the first portion. The liquor that remains, being drawn off, a fresh portion of wine is poured into the still, and the distillation continued till all the wine is consumed. When superior strength is required the brandy is re-distilled, and three quarters of it drawn over in the common still with a gentle heat, so that the thread from the worm may be extremely fine, and the spirit is separated into different portions as the strongest spirit comes over first. When first distilled it is as clear as water; and if preserved in earthen or glass vessels keeps colourless, but in oak casks it becomes coloured. In distillation 925 lbs. of wine consume 601bs. of pit coal, and produce in five hours forty-two minutes 87 lbs. of eau-de-vie, and in two hours more 98 lbs. of repasses. Modern improvements are founded oa the