[ 530 ] FBI FRI into a saucepan, and when it is melted add to it a glass of railk and a pincli of salt; keep it on the fire till it boils, then mix it in a suffi- cient quantity of flour to make it into a con- sistent paste which will not stick to the fingers, spread it on a table, roll it out to the thickness you may require, cut it in round, oval, or any other formed pieces you may think proper, fry them of a nice colour in the best oil, sprinkle sugar over, and serve them. FRITTERS, BREAD. Pick, wash, and dry i lb. of Zante raisins, and having spread them out on a flat dish, dredge them well with flour; grate some bread into a pan till you have a pint of crumbs, pour over the grated bread a pint of boiling milk, into which you have stirred, as soon as taken from the fire, a piece of fresh butter the size of an egg ; cover the pan, and let it stand an hour; then beat it hard, and add nutmeg, J lb. of powdered white sugar stirred in gradually, and two table-spoonsful of the best brandy. Beat six eggs till very light, and then stir them by degrees into the mixture. Lastly, add the currants a few at a time, and beat the whole very hard. It should be a thick batter: if you find it too thin add a little flour. Have ready over the fire a frying-pan of boiling lard, put in the batter in large spoonsful so as not to touch, and fry the fritters a light brown; drain them on a perforated skimmer, or an inverted sieve placed in a deep pan, and send them to table hot. Eat them with wine and powder sugar. FRITTERS A LA COTE. Soak in brandy some leaves and the young and tender shoots of the vine; dip them in a batter made of milk, yolks of eggs, and flour; fry them in boiling oil, and sprinkle with sugar. FRITTERS A LA DAUPHINE. Take a pound of brioche paste, and roll it out as thin as possible to the form of a long square; on part of this lay small quantities of apricot marmalade at intervals, slightly wet the paste round each piece of preserve, and lay over the plain part of the paste so as to cover the other completely; press it down lightly that the marmalade may not escape in the cooking, and cut out your fritters with a circular paste cutter two inches in diameter; flour them a little, and then lay them in rather a hot friture, when the paste will swell them into little balls. As soon as they are of a proper colour take them out, drain them on a napkin, sprinkle them with fine sugar, and serve them. FRITTERS, ENGLISH AND FRENCH. Take a marrow pudding, and when nearly cold cut it into thin slices ; then cut them again into pieces two inches long by three quarters of an inch wide, dip them in batter, and fry them in the usual manner. When drained glaze them with fine sugar, anl serve them verv hot. FRITTERS, GREEN. These are made like sweetmeat fritters, but coloured with the juice of spinach, extracted by pounding in a mortar. FRITTERS, INDIAN. Having beaten eight eggs till very light, stir them gradually into a quart of rich milk in turn with twelve large table-spoonsful of yellow Indian meal, adding a salt-spoonful of salt. When all is in stir the whole very hard ; have ready over a clear fire, in a pot or large frying-pan, 1 lb. of fresh lard boil- ing fast, and drop the batter into it a ladleful at a time. If you find the batter too thin stir into it a little moi'e Indian meal, and as the lard boils away replenish it with more. As fast as they are done take out each fritter with a perforated skimmer, through the holes of which let the lard drip back into the pot. The fritters must all be well drained. Send them to table hot, and eat them with wine and sugar, or with molasses. In cooking these fritters you may drop in three or four, one immediately after the other, and they will not*run if the lard is boiling fast and the batter thick enough, and made with a proper number of eggs. FRITTERS, MIGNON. Put two good spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, and mix it with the whites and yolks of two eggs, a little salt, 2 ozs. of sugar, some lemon-peel grated, half a tea-spoonful of milk, and the same of cream; stir the whole over a slow fire, and when done and well thickened spread the cream over a floured dish, shake flour over it, and when cold cut it into bits with a paste cutter; dip each bit into a paste made with two spoonsful of flour, a spoonful of brandy, and a little salt, mixed with two eggs. Fry the fritters, and serve glazed with sugar and a salamander. FRITTERS, ROYAL. Put a quart of new milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it begins to boil pour in a pint of white wine; then take it off, let it stand five or six minutes, skim off the curd, and put it into a basin ; beat it up well with six eggs, and season it with nutmeg; then beat it with a whisk, and add sufficient flour to give it the proper consistence of batter. Put in some sugar, and fry the fritters quickly. f FRITTERS, SOUFFLE. Make some flour and beer into a batter that will flow a little;' then take some of it out with a spoon, throw it into a frying-pan with boiling oil, and the moment it rises take it out. Proceed in the same way till all the batter is used; then sprinkle the fritters with salt, and serve. FRITTERS EN SURPRISE. Take eight middling-sized apples, pare them, and leave on the stalks; cut off about a fourth part of the