BAL t 62 ] BAN BALSAM OF HOREHOUND. _ This is also used for couglis, and is taken in similar doses. It is thus prepared:—Pour 2 pints of boiling water on 1 lb. of the leaves of horehound and I lb. of liquorice root cut into thin slices ; after standiug twelve hours strain off the liquor, and put into it ^ drachm of camphor, J oz. of opium, J oz. of benzoin, i oz. of dried squills, J oz. of oil of aniseed, and 3 pints of brandy. Let them remain for a week; then strain off the liquor, and dissolve in it 1 lb. of honey. BALSAM OF PERU. I We have united BALSAM OF TOLU.j these because we consider them alike in their origin and proper- ties. Dr. Duncan, in his " New Dispensatoiy," says that the botanist, so well acquainted with the plants of South America, Ruiz, expressly considers them as the same, and says, that the balsam of quinoquino is procured by incision at the beginning of spring, is collected in bottles, where it keeps liquid for some years, called white liquid balsam; when it is deposited in mats or calibashes, after some time it condenses and hardens into a resin, dry tvhite balsam, or balsam of Tolu. It is generally believed, that if an extract be made from the bark by boiling it in water, it remains liquid, and of a blackish colour, black Peruvian balsam. There is no difference in these three balsams, excepting in the name, colour, and consistency. Sprengel also, in a memoir on the subject, considered them to be the same, and ascribed their difference to the one being produced in Peru, under the equator, and the other in New Granada, 150 geographical miles further north. In his later " Species Plantarum " he has, however, made them dif- ferent species, as had previously been done in Humboldt's " Novas Species." The Peruvian balsam tree grows in the warmest provinces of South America. It was described by Hernandez under the native name of hirtziloxitl, and by Piso, under that of cabureiba. Notwithstanding, what is already stated on the authority of Ruiz, the mode of obtaining it is not ascertained. The Berlin " Pharmacopoeia " states, that it is procured by burning the wood, that is, by a kind of distil- lation per descensum, as tar is prepared, while others think that it is got by incision or by decoction. It is brought in tin flasks, and generally has a portion of a watery fluid on the surface, and a considerable deposit, which is soluble in it by heat,' but again separates on cooling. Balsam of Peru is a very warm aromatic medicine, considerably hotter and more acrid than copaiba. Its effects are stimulating and tonic. Hence its use in some kinds of asthmas, dysenteries, and other disorders proceeding from debility. It is also employed externally for cleansing and healing wounds and ulcers, and sometimes against palsies and rheumatic pains. Balsam of Tolu occurs in commerce in small gourd shells of a brownish-yellow, or reddish- brown, friable, resinous substance, of a very pleasant smell, like vanille or benzoin, and of a weak aromatic, somewhat acrid taste. It softens under the fingers and melts readily. It is perfectly dissolved in six parts of alcohol, combines easily with volatile oils, and more difficultly with expressed oils. According to Trommsdorff it contains, in 100 parts, 88 of resin, 12 of benzoic acid, and 0-2 of volatile oil. Its adulteration with tui-pentine or resin is known by its smell when thrown on hot coals. It agrees in every respect with the other balsams, and especially with the balsam of Peru. The dose of these is from 10 to 20 drops. BALSAM OF SULPHUR is nothing more than sulphur dissolved in sweet "Oil. Heat gently 1 oz. of flowers of sulphur in ^ pint of olive oil, stirring until the sulphur is dissolved. Balsam of sulphur was formerly strongly recom- mended in coughs, consumptions, and other disorders of the breast and lungs ; but it is manifestly acrid and irritating, and should there- fore be used with the utmost caution. It has frequently been found to injure the appetite, offend the stomach and viscera, parch the body, and occasion thirst and febrile heats. The dose is from 10 to 40 di'ops. It is employed externally for cleansing and healing foul running ulcers. BAMBOO PICKLE, in imitation of the Indian, for eating with cold meat, is made in spring by peeling off the outer skin of the shoots of the common elder, soaking them for twelve hours in salt and water, boiling them in vinegar for a minute, placing them in a jar, in layers, with a little allspice, ginger, and mace, all un- bruised, strewed between the layers, and then pouring in the vinegar boiling hot. Let the jar stand near the fire for two hours, and then, when cold, cover the mouth of the jar closely. BAMIA is a variety of the vegetable-marrow, shaped like a cucumber, but flattened at the ends. The fruit is ragouted, forced, and dressed in different ways, and is not palatable at first. BANBURY CAKES. Make some dough with 2 table-spoonsful of thick yeast, 1 gill of warm water, and 1 lb. of flour; when it has worked a little mix with it ^ lb. of cuiTants, washed and picked ; ^ lb. of candied orange and lemon-peel, cut small ; allspice, ginger, and nutmeg, of each \ oz. Mix the whole together with 1 lb. of honey; put them into puff-paste cut in an oval form ; cover, and sift sugar over. Bake them a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven.