BOO BOO [ 136 ] to her fancy, or to a model wliicli stauds be- fore her. Making bonnet fronts. If willow is used for the bonnet shape, a piece of silver paper or thin muslin must he laid perfectly smooth on the front. Over this is laid the silk or satin cover- ing. When you pin down this coverinc; you must see that the straight way of the silk lies perfectly tight both ways, that the silk is not pulled on the cross in the least. You then tack down this covering to the chip on the inside. You line the front in exactly the same way. The edge is finished by slip-stitching, or with a cord-edge, or a plain-binding. A binding is, per- haps, the commonest finish. BOOKS. The great enemies of books, next to careless readers, are damp and the book-grub, or the larva of the little beetle, Aglossa pingui- nalis. To avoid damp, books should not touch the wall, so that air may circulate freely behind them, and a fire should be in the room where they are during damp weather. If books are kept damp for any length of time the pages become spotted with mildew, to remove which bleaching liquid, half the strength of that directed for cotton and linen under the word Bleaching, may be applied very gently with a sponge, and then the page be washed over equally and gently with a sponge dipped in clean water. The sponge need only be just damped with the bleaching liquid. To remove ink-stains and ironmoulds adopt the same process, only substituting a strong solution of citric acid for the bleaching liquid. The book grub, we believe, is bred in the paste employed by bookbinders, and to pre- vent the parent beetle depositing her eggs in the paste, alum, arsenic, and other chemical preparations have been added to it. The best preventive is having books bound in what is termed India-rubber binding; but we believe if books are kept dry, frequently moved, and well rubbed with a flannel kept for the purpose in which some of the bark of the white birch is rolled up when the flannel is stored away it will preserve them from this insect. A library should never be lighted with gas unless each lamp has, by a special contrivance, all the fumes arising from it conveyed into the open air with- out in any degree mixing with the air of the room. However carefully prepared, gas con- tains a little sulphurous acid, and this, by con- tinued contact with paper, is absorbed by it, and gradually destroys its texture. The books of the Athenseum Club, in London, were seriously in- jured in this way. BOOTS. Those used out of doors should be rendered impendous to wet by having a thin inner sole of gutta percha. The upper leather should be rendered in some degree waterproof by being treated with one of the following com- pounds :—Take 1 pint of boiled linseed oil, -J lb. of mutton suet, 6 ozs. of beeswax, and 4 ozs. of resin. These ingredients are tobe melted together over a slow fire, and the boots or shoes, when new and quite clean, are warmed, and rubbed with the composition till the leather is completely satu- rated. There is an improved composition for preserving leather, the good efi'ects of which are sufficiently ascertained. One pint of drying oil, 2 ozs. of yellow wax, 2 ozs. of spmt of tur- pentine, and ^ oz. of Burgundy pitch, should be carefully melted together over a slow fire. With this mixture new shoes and boots are rubbed either in the sun, or at some distance from a fire, with a sponge or brush. The operation is to be repeated as often as they become dry until they be fully saturated. In this manner the leather becomes impervious to wet; the shoes or boots last much longer and acquire such softness and pliability that they never shrivel or grow hard or inflexible; and, in that state, are the most effectual preservatives against cold and chilblains. It is, however, necessary to remark, that shoes or boots thus prepared ought not to be worn till they have become perfectly dry and elastic; as, in the contrary case, the leather will be too soft, and wear out much sooner than even the common kind. Cleaning boots. The following are good direc- tions :—In the first place remove all the loose dirt with a ivooden knife, and never use a sharp steel knife for the purpose, as by doing so the leather is too often cut, and the boots and shoes spoiled before you are aware of it. When you have scraped off' all the dirt that you can with the knife, take the hard brush, and brush off the remainder, and all the dust, which you must be particular in doing, or you will not get them to look well. They must also be quite dry before you black them, or they will not shine. Do not put on too much blacking at a time; for if it dries into the leather before you can use the shining-brush the leather will look brown instead of black. If you have boot-trees never clean either your boots or shoes without them ; but take care that the trees themselves are always kept clean and free from dust, that they may not soil the inside of the boots and shoes. For the same reason never put one shoe within the other. When you clean boots or shoes belonging to the ladies be careful that your hands are clean, in order that the linings may not be soiled. Some ladies have their shoes done with milk, or particular mixtures, with only a little blacking for the edges of the soles. In this case the blacking should be put on with a small piece of sponge, so as not to dirt the upper leathers, upon which the proper mixture may be put with another bit of sponge or a bit of flannel. Always stir your blacking up well be*