[ 867 ] C RA CRA the gum, when the web will resemble thin gauze. CRAPE SCARFS, CHINA: To Wash. If the febric be good these articles of dress can be washed as frequently as may be required, and no diminution of their beauty will be dis- coverable, even when the various shades of green have been employed among other colours in the patterns. The method of cleaning them is as follows :—Make a strong lather of boiling water, and suffer it to cool; when cold, or nearly so, wash the scarf quickly and thoroughly; dip it immediately into cold hai'd water, in which a little salt has been thrown, to preserve the colours ; rinse, squeeze, and hang it out to dry in the open air; pin it at its extreme edge to the line, so that it may not in any part be folded together; the more rapidly it dries the clearer it will be. CRAYFISH BISQUE. Take about fifty or sixty crayfish; stew them in a little water, with carrots, onions, parsley, thyme, bay leaves, salt, and pepper, for about an hour; then drain, and take them out of their shells, and, having laid aside thirty of the tails whole, pound the remainder of the meat, with the breasts of two roasted fowls, the crumbs of two French rolls pre- viously soaked in rich broth, and the yolks of three hard eggs. Boil the shells in a little broth, and with the liquor dilute the pounded meat, and rub the whole through a silk sieve; boil 1^ pint of cream, keep it stirring, and pour on the soup ; season it, and add the coral of a lobster, pounded and mixed with a little broth ; set the whole on the fire, but do not let it boil. When quite done pour it into a tureen on some previously soaked bread, putting the tails which were reserved on the soup, and serve it hot. CRAYFISH, BROILED. The fish being boiled, take them out of the shells, and soak them for a quarter of an hour in white wine, with pepper, salt, and shred parsley ; soak also in the same way an equal number of fish roes; tie these alternately on skewers, dip them in egg, bread them lightly, and broil them of a nice colour. CRAYFISH BUTTER. Boil your cray- fish in water, with vinegar, parsley, salt, and pepper; take the meat from the shells, dry and pound it well with butter, set the whole on a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, pass it through a sieve into a basin of cold water, and let it congeal. The shells must likewise be pounded and mixed with the rest. If they do not make it sufficiently red add a little alkanet root. CRAYFISH CHEESE. Having washed and boiled the fish as usual, take off the small claws and tails, and set them aside; chop up the meat that remains in the shells of some other fish, with artichoke bottoms, sweet herbs, and butter; mix them well, and put it in a dish in the form of a large cheese, round which lay the tails; cover it with bread crumbs, and colour it in the oven for fifteen minutes. CRAYFISH A LA COLONNE. Take the number of crayfish you may want as fresh as possible ; split each in half, and put them into a stewpan, with white wine, a little oil, a sliced lemon, salt, and pepper. Let them stew in this till done ; then dish them; add to the liquor some blond, reduce and strain it, and pour it over your crayfish. CRAYFISH CREAM. Boil a pint of cream and some fine sugar; reduce it to about half; pound the carcasses of eight or ten crayfish ; put them to this cream, with a fowl's gizzard, and boil for about a quarter of an hour; then strain it several times, and bake it between two slow fires. CRAYFISH, CULLIS OF. Wash and boil about thirty crayfish in plain water; then take off the shells, and pound them well with the meat of the fish and a dozen almonds. Cut Hlb. of fillet of veal and some ham into slices, and put them into a saucepan, with an onion, carrots, and parsnips. Do them until they are about the consistence of veal gravy; then add a little flour and melted bacon; put them on again, and keep stirring them ; moisten the whole with good stock, and add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, scallions, champignons, truffles, and crusts of bread; simmer it, take out the veal, put to it the pounded crayfish, and then strain. CRAYFISH, CULLIS OF (au Geas). Take about thirty crayfish of a moderate size, and, after washing them several times, boil them in water; then pick them, and put the shells aside ; pound them, and twelve sweet almonds, and the crayfish well in a mortar; then take a fillet of veal and a piece of ham, cut them into slices, and add an onion and some slices of carrots and parsnips. When the whole has taken colour add some melted butter and a little flour; let it simmer, stirring it well; then moisten the whole with some good stock or broth; add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, young onions, mushrooms, truflles, and crusts of bread, and let it simmer; then take out the veal, dilute the contents of the mortar with the juice, and strain the whole through a sieve. CRAYFISH, POTTED. Having boiled the fish in salt and water and picked out all. the meat, sprinkle them with spice, pepper, and salt, and then pound them to a fine paste, adding a little butter; put it into pots, and cover them with clarified butter. CRAYFISH A LA PROVENgALE. Boil your fish in equal quantities of wine and water,