[ 18 ] AME ANO glassful each of yeast, wine, and rose water. Sift in 4 wine-glassesful of flour, beat the lumps fine, and set the buns to rise for four hours on the tin on which they are intended to be baked. AMERICAN DOUGH NUTS. Two pounds of flour, fib. of sugar, to 1 lb. of butter, 6 eggs, 1 tea-spoonful pearl-ash, dissolved in a cup of milk. Spice to your taste. The more fat they are fried in the less they will soak. AMERICAN PUFFETS (for Tea oe Bbeakfast). One pint of cold milk (which has been boiled), 1 pint of home-made yeast, i lb. of butter, ^ lb. of sugar, and 5 eggs, to be mixed into a stiff paste, or, rather, batter, which must be put into the baking-tins to rise, and, without taking out, be baked in them in the usual manner. AMMONIA, or volatile alkali, when combined with other bodies, is very generally useful. It may be obtained from almost allputrefying animal matters, but is now usually prepared from the refuse liquor of gasworks. It gives a beautiful violet-red colour to Lecanora tartarea and other mosses in preparing archil for the dyers , 5 or 6 drops of liquid ammonia added to, and well shaken in a bottle of new brandy are said to impart to it the softness and flavour of the finest old brandy. Ammonia in all its forms is useful as a manure if not used too strong ; it is the base of sal ammoniac (muriate of ammonia) so extensively used in the arts ; combined with vinegar it forms Mindererus's spirit (acetate of ammonia), much used as a medicine to promote perspiration; combined with carbonic acid it crystallises, and dissolved in water forms spirit of hartshorn, and not dissolved in water those crystals are the smelling salts of the lady's toilet, and are also used by confectioners to render their pastry light. Ammonia united with aqua-fortis (nitric acid) forms nitrate of ammonia, very useful as a " freezing mixture " for cooling wine, butter, and other articles. Fuller particulars will be detailed under those headings. Ammonia increases the pungent perfume of other bodies; it is always present in the air of privies, and perfumers expose their musk, and other odorous articles, to that air to increase their scent. So, to give pungency to snuff it is made to ferment slightly, because by the fermentation ammonia is produced ; and it is a curious fact that the odour of the best snufP may be desti-oyed by mixing with it a little tartaric acid, for this acid absorbs from the snuff its ammonia. The blue liquid in the glasses kept in chemists' shop-windows is made by mixing liquid ammonia with a solution of blue vitriol (sulphate of copper). AMMONIA, ACETATE OF. This is the Mindererus's spirit of the old chemists. It is given in a liquid form to promote perspiration to those suffering from fever or inflammation, warm, weak liquids, being taken at the same time to promote its action. On the contrary, if the person who has taken it walks in the cool air, it promotes the action of the kidneys. The usual dose is ^oz., by measure, in gruel or warm water. Twenty-five drops of acetate of ammonia in a glass of water are said to dissipate drunken- ness and remove headaches. One ounce of it mixed with 9 ozs. of water forms a cooling wash, or collyrium, often applied to inflamed eyes or evelids. "AMMONIA, CARBONATE OF. Chiefly used in crystals under the name of smelling salts. A dose of five grains is sometimes effec- tual ia removing acidity of the stomach. To make smelling salts: pound together very finely 1 drachm of sal ammoniac and 3 drachms of pure potash; add 15 drops of essence of lemon. Or, bruise the crystals of 2 drachms, of sesqui-car- bonate of ammonia, and add 10 drops of oil of verbena. Keep in a glass-stoppered bottle. The last-named preparation is the same as Godfrey's smelling salts. AMMONIA, MURIATE OF. Commonly called sal ammoniac. It is chiefly used by dyers, and for cleaning the sm'faces of metals prepara- tory to their being tinned. It is also used in preparing freezing mixtures. A lotion for chilblains is prepared by dissolving 1 oz. of sal ammoniac in ^ pint of water. ANALEPTIC PILLS (Dr. James's). Ana- leptic is a medical term for comforting and sus- taining. These pills are made of equal parts of James's powder, gum ammoniacum, and the pill of aloes with myrrh [pill rafi), which is a preparation kept by all chemists and druggists. Make into a mass with as much tincture of castor as neces- sary to enable it to be formed into pills. Divide into pills of 4 grains each; two to a dose; acting as a purgative and promoting perspiration. ANCHOVIES, FRIED. Make a paste of flour with 1 spoonful of oil and a little white wine; take care that the paste is not too wet. Having taken the salt from the anchovies, dip them in the paste, and fry them of a good colour. ANCHOVY. This fish is known to naturalists as Engraulus encrasicholus. It is about the size of the middle finger, bluish brown on the back, and silvery white on the belly. It abounds in the Mediterranean along the shores of Spain, Italy, and Greece ; and in the Atlantic on the coasts of France and Portugal. Considerable anchovy fisheries have been established along the coasts of Provence and Catalonia, but the most productive is at Gorgona, a small island near Leghorn. They are caught only during the night, being attracted near the boats by charcoal fires burning in them. If when the