DRI .Pr. Harrison is solicitous to impress the fact that .the rot, that is, the typhus fever, has been con- tracted in ten minutes ; that sheep can at " any time be tainted in a quarter of an hour, while the land retains its moisture, and the weather is hot and sultry." Such instances of the pre- judicial effects of undrained and neglected roads might be easily multiplied. Thus Mr. E. P. Turner, the medical officer of Coleshill Union, in accounting for some cases of fever, states, " These cases of typhus all occurred in the same neighbourhood, where the road is bad, with a dirty ditch of stagnant water on each side of it. The road is generally overflowed in the winter. The disease broke out in the month of October. Other cases occurred in the same neighboui'hood at the time." If any evidence be required of the sanitary influence of good drainage, or the removal of stagnant waters from a district, let the inhabit^ ■ants of the now better drained fens of Lincoln- shire and Cambridgeshire attest; or, if the experience of the tenants of a less extensive district be preferred, then we commend to the reader's notice the following observations of Mr. George Elgar, one of the medical officers of the Eastry Union :—" The parishes forming the fifth district of the Eastry Union are, with one or two exceptions, close to marshes sepa- rating the Isle of Thanet from this portion of East Kent, and consequently during the spring and autumn the inhabitants are exposed to the malaria therefrom ; but for the last few yenrs, Giving to the excellent plan of draining, very few .diseases have occurred, in my opinion, that can be said to be produced by malaria. There is very little ague, scarcely any continued fever, and a case of typhus, I believe, has not been linown along the borders of the marshes for the last three or four years.- Some years back a great portion of the parishes adjoining these .marshes was under water from the end of autumn to the early part of the following Spring; then agues and fevers of all characters prevailed to a very great extent. Although the malaria does not produce diseases of any decided character, yet during a wet spring or autumn there are always cases of inflammation bf the lungs or bowels, or rheumatism both in acute and chronic forms. The houses in general are good, well drained, and ventilated, having one or two sitting-rooms, as many bedrooms, .sometimes more, scullery, &c." Such, then, being the ills produced by the bad drainage of our houses and gardens, with- out delay remove this source of discomfort and disease. This may be accomplished with much more facility and far less expense than is generally supposed, and no period bf the year is better adapted for such im- provements, little in extent, but large in- their good results,'as the early period of the year. February and March are the months wholly preferred for such work by the owners of considerable portions of land. The farmer well knows that the first improvement, the foundation, as he terms it, of all good husbandry, is the drainage of his land. He thus dries his land to fill his barns with corn, and his fields with healthy live stock and flourishing crops. Let the mere householder remember that he has far higher objects; he has to preserve and increase the comfort, the enjoyment, and the health of the members of his family, without which all other worldly blessings are of little value, and the enioyment of life impossible. DRAUGHT, BLACK. See Black Dkaught. DRESS. See Apparel. DRINKING is perhaps more necessary to the support of animal life than eating, for drink is indispensable to the solution and diges- tion of food. Those who drink too little — people, for instance, of a sedentary life, and particularly women—are subject to complaints of indigestion. Sufficient drink prevents the thickening of the blood and the obstruction of the smaller vessels ; it tends to clear the blood of the acrid particles generated in it; and it promotes the necessary secretions, such as the bile and the gastric juice of the stomach. We ought to drink only when we are thirsty, and to desist when thirst is quenched ; but this is seldom the case, because many of our liquors stimulate the palate. Pure water, therefore, is an inestimable beverage, as it will not induce us to drink more than is necessary. We should drink in a greater proportion than we eat, for the quantity of our fluids by far exceeds that of the solids, and consequently there must be secreted more fluids than solids. The general rule may be given to take about double the proportion of liquid to the dry food ; but this cannot be accurately observed, nor is it appli- cable in all cases. Tlie season, the weather, cold, heat, the na- ture of our food, and the greater or less degree of our exercise, require more or less drink at one time than at another. Thirst, however, is as good, if not a better guide than hunger ; and he who is accustomed to drink water oniy will not easily transgress the measure, if he drink as often as nature calls upon him. With a proper choice of food evei'y one would drink conformably to his wants. Hence it is needless to recommend water as a beverage to persons who will not be persuaded to change their irie- gular mode of eating. The more we eat in quantity, and the drier our victuals are, the more we ought to diink. The phlegmatic have less inclination to drink