[ 436 3 DUO DUG aper. Three quarters of an hour before serving oil, cover, and put them on a paillasse with fire Under and over. When done drain, unlace, and dish; serve them under an orange sauce. Instead of using the juice of beef take a little aspic and consommee reduced. If there are no oranges use lemons. DUCK AU PERE DOUILLET. Tie up a duck in a neat form with a packthread, and put it into a stewpan large enough to contain it, with a bunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, a bay leaf, basil, two cloves, some coriander seeds, slices of onions, a carrot, a parsnip, a slice of butter, two glasses of stock, and one of white wine. Let the whole stew gently, and when the duck is done skim off the fat, and strain the liquor through a sieve; then reduce it upon the fire to the consistence of a sauce, and serve over the duck. It may be done in the same manner cut in quarters. DUCK PIE. Scald two ducks, and make them very clean; then cut off the feet, the pinions, necks, and heads; take out the gizzards, livers, and hearts ; pick all clean, and scald them; pick out the fat of the inside, lay a good puff paste crust all over the dish, season the ducks both inside and out with pepper and salt, and lay them in a dish with the giblets at each end properly seasoned ; put in as much water as will nearly fill the pie, lay on the crust, ajid let it be well baked. DUCK PURI:E. Put a duck into a sauce- pan, with some stock, slices of bacon, a bunch of parsley, two or three leeks, a bay leaf, and a few carrots and onions. When done strain the sauce through a sieve, adding any kind of puree you choose, and serving it round the duck. DUCK PUREE VERTE. Boil half a pint of dry peas with a little stock, some parsley, and green onions, and strain them through a sieve. If they are green peas there should be a pint of them, omitting the parsley and green onions. Then stew a duck with some stock, salt, pepper, a bunch of parsley and green onions, thyme, a bay leaf, basil, half a clove of garlic, and two cloves. When done strain off the sauce, and add to it the puree of peas; reduce it till moderately thick, and serve over the duck. In stewing the duck you may add a piece of streaked bacon cut in slices, with the rind on, and serve round the duck. DUCK, SAUCE FOR. To a quarter of a pint of sorrel juice add a glass of white wine and some scalded gooseberries, with a little powder sugar and a small piece of butter. Boil the whole together. DUCK STEWED WITH PEAS. Parboil a duck, and then put it into a stewpan, with a pint of gravy, some mint, and three or four sage leaves cut small; cover the pan, and stevr for half an hour; thicken the gravy, and add half a pint of green peas ready boiled ; dish up the duck and the peas together. DUCK, STUFFING FOR. Chop about 2 ozs. of onion finely, about 1 oz. of green sage leaves, 4 ozs. of bread crumbs, the yolk and white of a boiled egg, and a little pepper, to which may be added a minced apple. DUCK WITH TURNIPS. Brown a little butter and flour of a fine colour, then moisten with some stock, and put in a whole duck, with a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt and coarse pepper. Have ready some turnips, pared and cut properly, to stew with the duck. If they are hard put them in at the same time, but otherwise when the duck is about half done. When the ragout is completed and well skimmed add a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and serve with a thick sauce. This is called serving a duck with turnips d la hourgeoise. DUCKLING, ROLLED. Make a good forcemeat of roasted poultry, cut a good-sized duckling in two, bone it, and lay the farce upon it; roll it up, tie slices of bacon round it, and boil it in a little stock, with a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two cloves. When done squeeze the fat gently out, and wipe the duck clean. Serve with what sauce you DUCKLINGS, ROASTED. They must not be seasoned. They will be roasted in rather less than half an hour. Serve with gravy and gooseberry sauce. DUCKS : To Boil. Scald and draw them, after which lay them a few minutes in warm water ; then put them into an earthen pan, and pour over them a pint of boiling milk ; let them lie therein two or three hours, and on taking them out dredge them with flour, put them into a pot of cold water covered closely, and, having boiled them slowly about twenty minutes, they will be fit for table, smothered with onion sauce. DUCKS: To Choose. In choosing ducks, either tame or wild, observe whether they are hard or thick on the belly, for if so they are fat, but if thin and lean they are poor. When newly killed the feet are supple, but when stale they are dry and stiff. Those of a tame duck are thick and yellowish; those of wild ones are small and reddish. Both kinds should be picked dry, but ducklings must be scalded. DUCKS : To Tbuss. These are treated the same way as geese, with the exception of retain- ing their feet, which must be turned up close to the legs. DUCKS A LA BRAISE. Dress, singe, and lard a couple of ducks with bacon rolled iu parsley, onions, beaten mace, cloves, pepper.