ALE [ 9 ] ALI them, and boil them three hours; strain off the hops, and keep them for the small beer; let the wort stand in a high tub till cool enough for the yeast, of which, whether of ale or that of small beer, put in 2 quarts; mix the whole thoroughly, and stir it often. When the wort has done fermenting, which will be about the second or third day, the yeast will sink rather than rise, and must be removed immediately, and the ale tunned as fast as it works out. Pour in a quart at a time, but gently, to prevent the fermentation from continuing too long. Lay some paper over the bung-hole two or three days previously to stopping it up. ALE, WINDSOR. For a good imitation of Windsor ale take of the best pale malt, 1 bushel; of the finest hops that have been soaked all night in cold water, 1 lb.; of clarified honey and sugar, each 1 lb ; of liquorice root, well cut and bruised, J lb.; of grains of paradise, ground, ^ oz.; of orange-peel, J oz.; and of coriander seed, cinnamon, and angelica root, each 1 drachm. Brew the whole in the common way with three mashings, using bran - flour instead of that of grain, and a little salt in the cleansing. ALEBERRY is made by soaking and boiling stale bread or oatmeal in beer, ale, or porter: for children it is made of good small beer, or equal quantities of ale and water, and sweetened with sugar; and for others as they like it. It is an excellent supper for invalids and weekly children when milk does not agree with them; and in such a case it is better made of barleymeal. ALEGAR. Alegar is vinegar made by working good ale upon the cuttings of young shoots of vines, unripe grapes, or cheap raisins. ALIMENT is only another name for food. Though originally designed to be a blessing to mankind, as well as their support, food may, in many cases, be justly considered as a curse ; for we do not hesitate to affirm that the in- judicious conduct of parents and nurses during infancy and the early years of childhood lays the foundation of those numerous diseases which, at a maturer age, arise from indigestion, and have in many families become hereditary. The aliment of children ought to be adapted to their age and the strength of their digestive powers. Hence they ought by no means to be fed immoderately and promiscuously with every kind of food, as by this indulgence the first passages are distended, and their stomachs gradually acquire an unnatural craving for victuals, before the preceding meal is properly assimilated. Such conduct is particularly in- jurious during the first year of their age ; for, when their stomachs become more vigorous, they may be enabled by slow degrees to digest different kinds of victuals, the nature and pro- perties of which are extremely opposite, though excess in quantity is always hurtful. No food whatever that has been prepared for many hours should be given to children, especially after being warmed up, as it generates flatulence, heart- burn, costiveuess, and a variety of disorders which are equally painful and difficult to remove. Sudden changes from liquid to solid food are equally dangerous : one kind of aliment only should be given at each meal in moderate por- tions, and not a multiplicity of incongruoias mixtures in immediate succession, such as broth or soup, meat boiled or roasted, after taking milk, fruit, &c. All stimulating dishes prepared for adults, as well as beer, wine, spices, coffee, and other heating liquors, should be carefully withheld from children, as they often occasion the most afflictive complaints; for instance, eructations, vomiting, spasms, and convulsions, especially during dentition ; and if the hapless victims of indulgence survive that period, they become liable to other tormenting diseases, the most frequent of which are the scurvy, scrofula, and consumption. Under the present heading we shall only consider for adults the comparative nutritive qualities and degree of digestibility of various aliments. Information relative to the food appropriate to different temperaments will be found under the heading Diet. Dr. Kitchener justly observes that the best proofs of the nutritive qualities of food are a small quantity of it satisfying hunger, the strength of the pulse after it, and the length of time which elapses befoi'e appetite returns again. According to these rules the editor's own experience gives a decided verdict in favour of roasted or broiled beef or mutton as most nutritive; then game and poultry of which the meat is brown; next veal, lamb, and poultry of which the meat is white ; the fat kinds of fish, eels, salmon, herrings, &c.; and least nutritive the white kinds of fish, such as whiting, cod, soles, haddocks, &c. That fish is less nutritive than flesh, the speedy return of hunger after a dinner of fish is sufficient proof. When a trainer at Newmarket wishes to waste a jockey he is not allowed pudding if fish can be had. Crabs, lobsters, prawns, &c., unless thoroughly boiled (which those sold ready boiled seldom are) are very indigestible. Shell fish have long held a high rank in the catalogue of easily digestible and speedily restorative foods. Of these oysters certainly deserve the best character; but we think that they, as well as eggs, gelatinous substances, rich broths, &c., have acquired not a littJfi m.^i-p.