[ 56 ] EAC B AC manner, and if kept in a dry, warm place -will greatly improve. BACON: To Boil (1). Soak it in warm water an hour or two, pare off the rusty part, scrape the rind, and then let it boil gently in cold water three quarters of an hour. Clean the under side well, and take off the rind, grate a crust of bread all over it, and put it before the fire for a few minutes. Two pounds of bacon will take about an hour and a half boiling, but the gammon will require a longer time. BACON : To Bon, (2). Cover lib. of nice streaked bacon with cold water; let it boil gently for three quarters of an hour; take it up, scrape the under side well, and cut off the rind; grate a crust of bread not only on the top, but all over it, and put it before the fire for a few minutes. It must not be there too long, or it will dry and spoil. Two pounds will require about an hour and a half, according to thick- ness. The hock or gammon, bemg very thick, will take more.—The boiling of bacon is a very simple subject to comment upon ; but our main object is to teach common cooks the art of dressing common food in the best manner. Bacon is sometimes as salt as salt can make it; therefore, before it is boiled, it must be soaked in warm water for an hour or two, changing the water once ; then pare off the rusty and smoked part, trim it nicely on the under side, and scrape the rind as clean as possible. Bacon is an extravagant article in house- keeping ; there is often twice as much dressed as need be. When it is sent to table as an accompaniment to boiled fowl or veal l^lb. is plenty for a dozen people. A good German sausage is a very economical substitute for bacon, and so are fried pork sausages. BACON: To Choose. The fat of bacon, when good, is firm, with a reddish tinge, and the lean, which is of a lively colour adheres closely to the bone; but if there are yellow streaks in it the same is a sure sign of rust or decay. The rind of young bacon is thin, and that of the old thick. Be sure to observe that the flesh sticks close to the bones, and the fat and lean to each other; for if it does not the hog was not sound. Take care also that the extreme part of the fat near the rind be white, for if that be of a darkish or dirty colour, and the lean pale and soft, it is rusty. To ascertain if a ham or a piece of bacon is in good condition thrust a sharp-pointed knife into the middle of the ham, under the bone, and on smelling the knife, if the ham be good, it will have a pleasant flavour; but if it be daubed and smeared, and has a disagreeable scent, reject the ham as a bad one. Those short in the hock generally turn out best. A gammon of bacon may be tried in the same manner. BACON: To Cure (1). In order to have good bacon the hair should be burnt oS, not scalded; the flesh will be more solid and firm, and it will keep better. This part of the business belongs to the operation of pig killing ; however, we shall bring it in here. The hog must be kept on dry straw, or litter of some kind, all the day before, that the hair may be perfectly dry. When killed he is to be laid upon a bed of straw not wider than his body, and two or three inches thick; cover him thinly with straw, and set fire to one end of it in the direction of the wind; cover him two or three times as the straw is burnt off, but be careful not to burn or parch the skin. When one side is done turn him on the other. When the hair is burnt close scrape the hog quite clean, but never touch it with water. The burning should always be done before daylight, because you can then discover more nicely whether the hair be sufficiently burnt off. After the inwards are removed the pig is hung up for the next day, when he is cut up, and the other parts being taken away, the two sides or flitches are to be cured for bacon. A bacon trough or tray should have a gutter round its edges to drain off the brine, which would otherwise soak in, and spoil the meat. The inside or flesh side of each flitch must be well rubbed with salt, and placed above each other in the tray. Once in four or five days the salt should be changed. It should be suffered to melt and sink, but not to lie too long. At least twice during the salting the flitches should be changed, putting the bottom one at top, and then again at the bottom. Some people add for each hog i lb. of bay salt, J lb. of saltpetre, and 1 lb. of very coarse sugar or treacle; but this is not necessary. Very capital bacon may be made with common salt alone, provided it be well rubbed in, and changed sufficiently often. Even the brine will turn to a good account if you will set a vessel under the hole of your salting-trough in order to catch it. As to the length of time required for curing the hog it depends upon the state of the weather, size of the animal, &c. It takes longer in a dry place, and when the air is keen, than when it is mild and damp. Six weeks in moderate weather will do for a hog of twelve score; but it is better to have time enough. The place for salting should be cool, and very airy. If it be dark it is all the better, being more secure from fly blows. BACON: To Cure (9). Divide the hog; take out the chine, but leave the spareribs; salt the flitch six days; then drain off the first pickle ; mix as much common salt as you think proper with 8 ozs. of bay salt, 3 ozs. of saltpetre, and 1 lb. of coarse sugar to each hog. First, take off the hams, rub the salt well in, and tm'n the