[ 9i ] BEE BEE tlie surface, with bits of salt pork or ham cut about J inch square, and rolled in the following seasoning, well mixed:—Finely-minced onion, parsley, thyme, a little garlic, pepper, and salt. What is left over of the seasoning add to 1 pint of vinegar, 1 pint of port wine, and 1 tea-cupful of salad oil. Steep the beef iu this for one night; the following day paper it, and roast it in a cradle-spit. Baste it well, and serve it with a thick, brown gravy. A little lemon-juice and sliced pickled cucumbers may be added. Garnish with slices of boiled carrot and sci'aped h 0 rs G IT 9j cl isb. BEEF, A-LA-MODE (1). Take about 11 lbs. of the mouse buttock, or clod of beef, or a bladebone, or the sticking-piece, or the like ■weight of the breast of veal; cut it into pieces of 3 ozs. or 4 ozs. each ; put 3 ozs. or 4 ozs. of beef-dripping; mince a couple of large onions, and put them into a large, deep stewpan. As Boon as it is quite hot, flour the meat, put it into a stewpan, keep stirring it with a wooden spoon; when it has been on about ten minutes dredge it with flour, and keep doing so till you have stirred in as much as you think will thicken it; then cover it with boiling water (it will take about 1 gallon), adding it by degrees, and stirring it altogether; skim it when it boils, and put in 1 drachm of ground black pepper, 2 drachms of allspice, and 3 bay leaves. Set the pan by the side of the fire, or at a distance above it, and let it stew very slowly for about three hours. When you find the meat sufi&ciently tender, put it into a tureen, and it is ready for table. BEEF, A-LA-MODE (2). Take the bone out of a small round of fine ox beef; cut some fat bacon in long strips ; dip them into common and shallot vinegar, mixed, and roll them in the following seasoning : — Grated nutmeg, black and Jamaica pepper, 1 or 2 cloves, and some salt, parsley, chives, lemon-thyme, knotted mar- joram, and savory, shred quite small. Lard the beef very thickly, bind it firmly with tape, and rub the outside with the seasoning. Put it into a saucepan, with the rind of a lemon, 4 large onions, the red part of 3 or 4 carrots, and 2 turnips cut into dice; add a tea-cupful of strong ale and one of vinegar; let it stew for six or eight hours, turning it two or three times. Half an hour before serving, take out the beef and vegetables, skim off the fat, strain the sauce, and thicken it with a little flour and water, mixed smooth; add a tea-cupful of port wine, return all to the pot, and let it boil. BEEF BALLS. Mince very finely a piece of tender beef, fat and lean; mince an onion with some boiled parsley; add grated bread- crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon-peel; mix all together, and moisten it with an egg beaten up; roll it into balls ; flour, and fry them in boiling, fresh dripping. Serve them with fried bread-crumbs, or with thickened brown gravy. BEEF, BARON OF: To Roast. This was a magnificent dish at the tables of our hospitable ancestors on great occasions; and though the noble baron is now but seldom seen, yet the subject requires, by courtesy, some attention in a work like the present. As the joint is too large for a spit, it must be roasted in a sus- pended state before a proportionate fire. Split the tail part in two, as in a saddle of mutton, and turn it nearly round in the form of a ring on each side. The baron will take at least five hours in roasting, well papered, before a good brisk fire, to which it must be laid gradually, for if placed too near at first the outside will be ruined. If it is to be eaten hot, garnish with young carrot-tops laid round the dish, which may be ornamented at pleasure. BEEF, BOUILLI (1). In plain English this is understood to mean boiled beef; but its culinary acceptation in the French kitchen is, fresh beef dressed without boiling, and only very gently simmered by a slow fire. Cooks have seldom any notion that good soup can be made without destroying a great deal of meat; however, by a judicious regulation of the fire, and a vigilant attendance on the soup-kettle, this may be accomplished. You may have a tureen of such soup as will satisfy the most fastidious palate, and the meat make its appear- ance at table at the same time in possession of a full portion of nutritious succulence. This requires nothing more than to stew the meat very slowly (instead of keeping the pot boiling at a gallop, as common cooks too frequently do), and to take it up as soon as it is done. Meat cooked in this manner affords much more nourishment than it does dressed in the com- mon way, is easy of digestion in proportion as it is tender, and is an invigorating, substantial diet, especially valuable to tbe poor, whose laborious employments require support. BEEF, BOUILLI (2). Take a rump of beef, or part of one, bone, and tie it together in a neat form, and put it into a pot with any odd bits of butchers' meat you may happen to have in the house, either beef, veal, or mutton; you may add, also, the bones, fat, and necks of poultry or game, the meat of which has been taken for other dishes; place your pot on a moderate fire, not quite full of water, and skim gently. When it has boiled a short time, put in some salt, tui'nips, 6 carrots, and 6 onions, into one of which you should stick 3 cloves; add a bunch of leeks. Let the whole boil gently till the beef is perfectly done ; then take it out, and serve it up either with fresh parsley with a sauce, or with onions or other vegetables.