[ 212 ) CAL CAL 1 pint of milic, and a little grated Gruyere cheese. Stir them over the fire until they thicken. When cold add a little butter, and the yolks of 4 raw eggs; beat all up together, and fill the ears, and dip them into hot butter. Cover them with equal quantities of bread-crumbs and grated cheese mixed together; place them in a dish and brown them. Serve without sauce. CALF'S EARS, RAGOtT OF (with Mush- EOOMs). Prepare and dress the ears the same as for IN Marinade, and when done drain and place them on your dish for table. Trim and toss up some mushrooms in butter, to which add 4 large spoonsful of veloute, and the same of consomme. Reduce this to half, thicken it with the yolks of 2 eggs, and pour it over the ears. CALF'S FEET (Boiled). Clean and skin the feet well, take out the large bones, boil them till tender, and serve with salt, pepper, vinegar, and sweet herbs. CALF'S FEET (Fried). Divide four calves' feet each in half, and boil them in flour and water; then soak them in butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, vinegar, garlic, shallot, parsley, green onions, thyme, and laurel. After they have laid some hours in this take them out, cover them well with flour, and fry them. Serve with fried parsley. CALF'S FEET (Stewed). Divide each foot into 4 pieces; put them to stew with i pint of water, with a potato, an onion peeled and sliced thin, pepper, and salt. Simmer these ingre- dients for two hours gently. CALF'S FEET BLANC-MANGE. Pick all the black spots from two boiled feet; slice them into a stewpan, with ^ pint of mountain wine, and rather more water. Let them stew gently. Add the yolks of 3 eggs, beaten and strained, with J pint of cream and a little flour, a little lemon-peel and juice; sweeten with fine sugar, and strain into a dish. When nearly cold stick on the top some jar raisins, scalded to make ^hem plump, almonds blanched and cut into filips, citron, lemon, and orange-peel sliced. It may be put in a basin. When cold turn it out. CALF'S FEET BROTH. Boil the feet in as much water as will make a good jelly; then strain, and set the liquor on the fire again, with a little mace in it. Put about i pint of sack to 2 quarts of broth. Add ^ lb. of currants. Beat up the yolks of 2 eggs, mix them with a little of the cold liquor, and thicken carefully over a slow fire ; put in a little salt, and then sweeten to your taste ; stir in a small piece of butter, and, just before you take it off, put to it the juice and peel of a fresh lemon. CALF'S FEET JELLY (1). Take the fat and bones from eight calves' feet, and soak them in water for Vn-ea or four hours; then boil them in 6 quarts of water, skimming often. When reduced to a third strain, and set it by to cooL When cold take every particle of fat from the top, and remove whatever may have settled at the bottom. Dissolve it in an earthen pan, adding to it 2 quarts of white wine, mace, cin- namon, and ginger or not, as you please. Beat up the whites of 12 eggs with 3 lbs. of fine sugar; mix these well with the jelly; boil it gently, adding the juice of 2 lemons, and then strain it for use. CALF'S FEET JELLY (2). Wash and set on the fire in cold water the four feet of a calf, observing when they begin to boil to skim it well. Set them by the side of a hot stove to boil gently for several hours. When all the bones are sepa- rated pass the liquor through a silk sieve into a large basin or pan. When cold and a jelly, take all the fat from the top; wipe it well off with paper that not the least particle remain; then set it on the fire again to boil, skim it well, take it off, and let it stand while you beat up the whites of 6 eggs in a large stewpan, to which put a very small bit of lemon-peel, the juice of 4 lemons, clarified sugar to sweeten to your taste, and a bottle of Bucellas wine. Mix them well together, and examine the jelly that no fat may remain. If there should take it off the fire, and pour it in the stewpan with the wine and other things; set it on the fire, and continue stirring it till it boils, and let it boil very gently for three or four hours. Have your jelly bag washed very clean, place it in the stand over a large basin, and when the jelly is ready run it through several times till it looks clear and bright. When all is through set it over the fire once more till you see the white scum rise; skim that off, and when the jelly begins to boil it is ready to put into the mould. You may garnish your jelly as you fill it up with different kinds of grapes, &c., placed in the mould. CALF'S FEET FIE. Boil the feet in 3 quarts of water, with 3 or 4 blades of mace, gently till reduced to half, then take out the feet and drain them. Lay a good crust in a dish, and when you have boned the feet put half the meat in it; strew over ^ lb. of stoned raisins; lay on the rest of the meat; skim the liquor they are boiled in; sweeten, and add to it ■J pint of white wine. Pour all into a dish, cover it with crust, and bake it an hour and a half. CALF'S FEET PUDDING. Mince 1 lb. of calf's feet fine, first taking out the fat and the brine ; mix with it 1^ lb. of shred suet, the crumb of a small grated roll, the yolks of 6 eggs, and the whites of 3 eggs well beaten, sufficient to moisten it, and sugar to your taste. Boil it nine hours. Serve with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. CALF'S HEAD. With a sharp knife cut all