CLI CLE [ 3U ] needle—a very tedious process ; but it can only te repeated about twice or thrice before the fringe wears out. In the case of caps and other articles trimmed with lace the body of the article only must be starched on both sides, and then doubled. The lace must then be gathered up in the right hand, and put into a dry cloth to keep it dry, while the starch is wrung out of the body of the article with the left hand. The lace will receive sufficient starch to render it stiff enough in the process of clapping. The same method may be practised with l3road edgings and ruffles. When the laces are pinned to boards let the pins be put in the middle, and not at the edge, lest the edging should be torn, or drawn out into un- sightly peaks or corners. CLEAVERS is a trailing native of our hedges and cultivated grounds, known also as clivers, catchweed, and goose-grass. It is called by botanists Galium aparine. This succulent vegetable possesses no smell, and is of a some- what bitter and acrid taste. An ointment pre- pared of the herb, when bruised and mixed with lard, is said to be a useful application for discussing cancerous swellings. Dr. Mayerne informs us that 3 ozs. of the juice of this plant, taken twice a day in wine, have been found singularly beneficial as an aperient and diuretic in incipient dropsies. Its greatest efficacy, how- ever, is aaid to be evident in scorbutic and can- cerous complaints, for the cure of which a tea- cupful of its expressed juice is to be taken every morning for nine or ten days. When the fresh plant cannot be procured the dried leaves may be infused and drank like tea. The branches of this vegetable are employed by the Swedes as substitutes for a hair sieve to strain milk. Young geese are ex^eedin^jly fond of the leaves, and the whole plant is eaten by horses, cows, sheep, and goats. It is said that the bones of poultiy feeding on the roots of goose-grass acquire a red colour. CLIMATE is a term usually given to any country or region that differs from another, as ■well with respect to the seasons and quality of the soil as to the manners of its inhabitants. The climate of this country, though in general temperate, is extremely variable. The transitions from heat to cold, however sudden in Britain, are less severely felt than upon the continent. Yet these frequent changes are productive of many diseases, which are genei'ated chiefly by the fol- lowing causes:—1. From the cold and moist temperature of the air, consequent on a long course of weather that was either dry and sultry, or warm, close, and moist, or intensely cold and drys together with keen frost, and from the effects produced by the contrary temperature. 2. Jj'rom cold and frosty weather, with piercing north or east winas, after a long course of mild weather, with south winds, which again prevail after the opposite extremes, and produce a moist and temperate or warm air. And 3. From cold weather during summer, and unseasonably warm or mild weather, together with south winds, in winter, and again attended with the contrary changes. This island is peculiarly subject to showers, and to close, cloudy, foggy weather, which must be ascribed to its insular situation. Clouds are continually wafted over from the sea by every wind, and condensed by the cold land air, as also by the humid vapours arising from plants, and thus precipitated in rain. From this cir- cumstance an uninterrupted continuance of dry weather is seldom experienced in Great Britain. But though such frequent changes, together with the moist and cold air so generally prevalent, render the inhabitants of this country liable to many disorders, yet the more malignant epi- demics are less fatal and occur less frequently than in most continental regions, because we enjoy the benefit of pure and temperate sea winds, and are exempt from the two extremes of heat and cold. The moisture of the British air, indeed, tends to relax the fibres; but it also promotes accretion, while its cool temperature condenses the solids and invigorates the whole body. Hence it hapj)ens that the natives of Great Britain are in general stouter and more robust than those of other countries, and though many persons here are subject to scorbutic and rheumatic complaints, arising from these various causes, to which must be added their gross and solid or luxurious food, yet a far greater propor- tion of the inhabitants of this island lives to an advanced age than of those of any continental country. This assertion, however, chiefly relates to salubrious farms and villages, where the people are more temperate and less debauched by spirituous liquors than in towns. We may farther remark that the prevailing custom of wearing light and thin dresses, especially among females, is by no means conducive to longevity; for, as those votaries of fashion and caprice are in all seasons exposed to colds and rheumatic complaints, many of them at length contract pulmonary or consump- tive diseases, and fall victims of folly at a period of life when they ought to be most useful to society. The solid, nutritive food of the inhabit- ants in general is likewise a principal cause of imany diseases originating from repletion; yet it must at the same time be admitted that such substantial nutriment greatly contributes to their strength, their full, athletic size, and their florid complexion. In the coldest climate the temperature, inimi- cal to man, counteracting his growth and ener- gies, obliges him to seek for shelter from the