GAL GAL [ 538 ] soils, and flowering in the month of May. This plant was formerly, by the northern nations, used as a substitute for hops; but unless it be boiled for a considerable time it is apt to occasion the headache. Dr. Withering is of opinion that from the catkins of this vegetable, if gathered in sufficient quantities, good candles might be manufactured, as, upon boiling those parts in water, a waxy scum may be perceived to rise to the surface. In the currying of leather, especially the softer kinds, this shrub is of the greatest utility. When reduced to powder it affords a grateful perfume in the composition of ointments, and it is like- wise serviceable for the expulsion of moths from clothes. The Norwegians smoke the leaves mixed with tobacco, which they are supposed greatly to improve. A decoction of the plant is used for the destruction of bugs and other vermin. In dyeing the bruised flower-buds and seeds yield a yellow colour. Lastly, an odori- ferous essential oil may be distilled from this aromatic shrub. GALL, OX. No preparation is more effectual for removing grease spots from woollens, silks, &c., than the gall of the ox, and we believe that the gall of the sheep and calf would be as efficient. The chief objection to its employ- ment is its peculiar smell, but this may be removed by the following treatment :^Boil a pint of the gall, skimming it frequently ; then add 1 oz. of powdered alum, and let it remain on the fire until the alum and the gall are thoroughly blended; then set it to cool, and when cold put the mixture into a bottle, which is to be slightly corked. Now proceed in exactly the same way with another pint of gall, using 1 oz. of common salt instead of alum. The two bottles must be kept in a place of moderate temperature for three months. A thick sediment will take place ; but as a good deal of yellow colouring matter will still remain, the contents of the two bottles, carefully poured off the sediment, are to be filtered separately', and then mixed in equal parts a portion at a time. The colouring matter will now coagulate and be precipitated, leaving the gall perfectly pure and colourless. It is then to be again filtered, bottled, and kept for use. In this ■ state it preserves all its detei-gent properties, is free from smell, and does not spoil by keeping. It must be well corked, however, and kept in a cool place. Silks, and all other articles of even the most delicate colours, may be cleaned with this prepared ox-gall. It is also used to fix chalk and pencil drawings before tinting them, and to remove the greasiness from ivory, &c., before drawing upon them. GALL STONES. The symptoms are deep- eeated pain on the right side, also in the pit of the stomach, extending to the back, at the place where the duct is inserted into the intestine. It is attended with vomiting and flatulence. Other symptoms are costiveness, the face pale, the eyes yellow. A fever attends the urgency of the pain. Errors in diet, ardent spirits, intense heat, azotic air, and sedentary life may be ranked among the'morbid agents. The pain as suddenly subsiding, is sometimes succeeded by a looseness, by which gall stones are discharged, and the whole of the symptoms disappear. In this disease generous diet is proper, and, when the strength will admit, a more than ordinary portion of exercise. The other natural powers should have a correspondent influence. Vomits and purgatives may be administered, with a view of acting on the obstructing causes. In the urgency of pain, opiates, fomentation, and warm bathing will be required. In the less aggravated stages recourse may be had to mineral waters, such as those of Cheltenham. GALLIMAUFRY, WELSH. Mix in a mortar any kind of cheese with butter, mustard, and wine; or make it without butter if it is objected to, and with any flavour. This makes excellent zests or sandwiches. GALLING is very ti-oublesome to children. It happens chiefly about the groin and wrinkles of the neck, under the arms, behind the ears, and in other parts that are moistened by the perspiration or urine. As this complaint is, in a great measure, owing to want of cleanliness, the most effectual means of preventing it is to wash the parts frequently with cold water, to change the linen often, and, in a word, to keep the child in all respects thoroughly clean. When this is not sufficient the excoriated parts may be sprinkled with absorbent or drying powders, as burnt hartshorn, tutty, chalk, and the like. When the parts affected are very sore, and tend to a real ulceration, it will be proper to add a little sugar of lead to the powders, or to anoint the place with the camphorated ointment. If the parts be washed with spring water, in which a little white vitriol has been dissolved, it wifl dry and heal them very powerfully. One of the lest applications for this purpose is to dissolve some fullers' earth in a sufficient quantity of hot water, and after it has stood till it is cold to rub it gently upon the galled parts once or twice a day; or to wash them gently now and then with a mixture of equal parts of rose water and spirits of wine. GALIjON. The old dry or corn gallon contained 26810 cubic inches, but the imperial corn gallon contains 277J inches. In both