ERY ERU [ 474 ] ERUPTIVE DISEASES. See Small Pox, Chicken Pox, Measles, &c. ERYNGO, called also the Sea Hollt {Eryn- gium maritimum). The leaves are sweetish, flavoured with a slightly aromatic warmth and pungency. The young flowering shoots, eaten like asparagus, are agreeably flavoured and nourishing. The roots were believed to be stimulating, but the opinion is rai'ely enter- tained now. ERYNGO ROOTS, CANDIED. Clean the roots, and boil them till they are tender; peel them, and extract the pith; put 1 lb. of sugar for each pound of roots into a pan, with just sufficient water to melt it; place this over the fire, put in the roots, and let them simmer till completely saturated with the syrup ; turn and stir them very carefully without breaking them until all the water is evaporated, and the sugar crystallised over them; lay them on wires to cool, and when quite cold put them in boxes. ERYSIPELAS, or St. Anthony's Fiee. This implies an inflammatory affection, con- fined principally to the skin when seated out- wardly, and to the mucous membrane when internally, with hardly any evident swelling, being of a mixed red colour, readily disappearing upon pressure, but quickly returning again, the redness not being regularly circumscribed, but spreading unequally, with a pain like to that of burning, which gives rise to a number of small blisters (which in unfavourable cases degenerate into obstinate ulcers), terminating usually by the falling off of the scarf skin, and sometimes in gangrene, but never in suppura- tion, unless combined with deeper-seated inflam- mation. The treatment of this kind of inflammation is also different from the former. It more particularly attacks those advanced in years, of a weak, irritable, and spare habit. It attacks the trunk of the body, but less frequently than the extremities. It is not uncommon to see infants attacked with it a few days after birth, making its appearance mostly about the genitals. The inflamed skin is very hard, and, to all appearance, very painful to the touch. The belly often becomes uniformly tense, and spots indicating mortifica- tion are observed. It was the opinion of the late Dr. Underwood that in this form of the disease the inflammation frequently spreads to the intestines. There is another species of this inflammation, which most commonly attacks the trunk of the body, known vulgarly by the name of shingles, being a corruption of the French word cingle, which implies a belt, which, instead of appearing in a uniform inflamed surface, consists of a number of small pimples extending round the body a little above the navel, and which, in a short time after their appearance, have vesicles form upon them. Little or no danger attends this type of the inflammation. When it attacks the face it comes on with chilliness, succeeded by heat, restlessness, and other febrile symptoms, with a drowsiness or tendency to sleep, or delirium, and a full and frequent pulse. At the expiration of two or three days a fiery redness appears in some part of the face, which at length extends to the scalp, and then gradually down the neck, leaving a tumefaction in every part which the redness has occupied. The whole ultimately becomes turgid, and the eyelids so much swollen as to deprive the patient of sight. When the redness and swelling have continued for some time blisters of various sizes, containing a thin, colourless, acrid fluid, come out on different parts of the face, and the skin on these places assumes a livid appearance; but in those not affected with blisters the scarf skin, towards the termination of the disease, falls off in scales. The fever does not abate on the appearance of the inflammation on the face, but, on the contrary, increases as the latter extends, and both will probably continue for eight or ten days. The disposition to stupor and delirium, in the course of the inflammation, is sometimes 60 increased as to destroy the patient between the seventh and eleventh days of the disease. When the complaint is mild, and not marked by a fatal event, the inflammation and fever generally cease by degrees without any evident crisis. This disease is very subject to be translated from one part to another, as well as from an external to an internal siu'face, a cu'cumstance which never occurs without the most imminent danger. In all such cases, as well as in many others which we shall allude to in treating of various diseases, it becomes not only too serious a matter to be trusted to domestic medi- cine, but it even requires the utmost care and exertion of some respectable and duly qualified medical or surgical practitioner. When this disease exists in the face in any considerable degree there is great danger of its being carried to the brain. Much diversity of opinion has prevailed, and still prevails, relative to the mode of treating this disease, which it would be diflScult to reconcile. We shall, therefore, only offer a few observa- tions on the mild species of it, when there may be no necessity for calling in professional aid, as, by attention to the following advice, the disease in slight cases may be carried off with perfect safety. The principal attention must be directed to the bowels, whicli should be kept in a laxative state by the use of gentle aperient medicines,