BRA [ 150 ] BRA principle that wine consists of a mixture of water and alcohol, which ingredients differ in the temperature at which their vapours condense into a liquid. The condensing part of the dis- tilling apparatus being, therefore, divided into two portions, and that next the still body kept at the temperature at which the vapour of water condenses, it becomes a liquid, and is made to How back into the body, while the vapour of alcohol, not being condensable by this tempera- ture, passes on to the second portion of the condensing apparatus, which is kept at a lower temperature, and here it is also condensed and made to flow into the receiver. Cognac is obtained by distilling the palest white wines in the ordinary still by a gentle heat, so as to avoid raising the essential oil contained in the skin of the grape. It is also obtained by distilling other white wines, or even the paler red wines, by Solimani's apparatus. Eau-de-Vie de Maec is known by the fiery taste of the essential oil of the grape with which it is imbued. It sells from 25 per cent, to 30 per cent, less than ordinary brandy. It is drunk by the lower classes in France, and pre- ferred by the English and the northern nations. It is made by distilling the dark red wines of Portugal, Spain, and other co^antries; or from the lees deposited by wine in keeping, or the scrapings of wine casks, the skins or grains of common raisins deposited in the making of raisin wine, the cake left in pressing grapes, and from the lees left in making vinegar. The cake left on pressing grapes is prepared for distillation by being broken to pieces, and thrown into large covered tubs of water. The mixture soon ferments. Brandy is coloured with burnt sugar, Saunders' wood, &c. It may be produced from all fermented liquors, but that from wine is generally preferred. Home-made Brandt. Take 20 pints of fully- ripe gooseberries and 20 pints of white and red currants; bruise them, and mix with 20 pints of soft water and 2 gallons of port wine. Put these ingredients into any open vessel to ferment for a fortnight; then put the mixture through a press or cloth of any kind that will exclude the refuse. Distil this liquid twice, and you will have the brandy colourless. From every 20 pints of the mixture you may draw 10 pints of good brandy. To colour it brown sugar, burned, may be used.—[Cal. Hort. Soc.) BRANDY ANDAYK An ounce of bruised aniseed, 1 oz. of bruised coriander seed, 2 ozs. of powdered floris iris, and the zests of 2 oranges; put them with 3 quarts of distilled brandy into the alembic bain marie ; dissolve 2 Jibs, of sugar in 2 J pints of clear river water; add them to the distilled liquor; pass the whole through a strainer, and put into bottles. BRANDY BITTERS. See Bitters. BRANDY, BRITISH. To 60 gallons of rectified spirits put 1 lb. of sweet spuit of nitre, 1 lb. of cassia buds, ground into meal and mixed with 1 lb. of the meal of bitter almonds, 2 ozs. of sliced (not powdered) iris root, and 35 pounded prune stones. Stir all these together two or three times a day for a week; then let the whole settle, and add 1 gallon of the best white wine vinegar. If you wish to have it of a supe- rior quality, add 1 gallon of French brandy, when it will be very nearly equal to the foreign itself. BRANDY, CHERRIES. There are different modes of making this cordial, sometimes by pressing out the juice, and putting thereto as much brandy as it will bear, according to its quality, and adding 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of brown sugar to every 20 gallons, with J oz. of cloves and cinnamon beaten small. Though this may be used in a few days, it will improve by keep- ing. But one of the most common ways of making cherry brandy is to put the cherries, clean picked from the stalks, into a vessel till it is about half full; then fill it up with brandy of rectified molasses, which is generally used for this compound, and when infused sixteen or eighteen days draw off the liquor by degrees as you want it. Then fill the vessel a second time nearly to the top; let it stand about a month, and draw it off as you have occasion till you have got the whole. Y'^ou may use these cherries a third time by just covering them with some brandy that is over proof, letting it infuse six or seven weeks, which by its strength will extract all the remaining juice ; but when you draw it off you must put to it as much water as the brandy was above proof, and afterwards the cherries must be pressed as long as any liquor remains in them. In making the cherry brandy of the first in- fusion—the juice of which will be the best, and contain the most spirit—continue the process till the liquor is brought to such a degree of colour as just to discern a lighted candle when held on the other side of the glass, and if you find it does not taste well of the cherries you may add a little more juice, and then sweeten with 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of sugar to every 20 gallons of liquor, and in proportion for a larger or smaller quantity. When you draw off the juice, or brandy, the second time it will be inferior to the first, bear less liquor in mixing, and require a little more sugar to sweeten it, together with J oz. of cin- namon and beaten cloves, and put to 20 gallons of the first infusion, which will become better the longer it is kept. When you draw off your cherry brandy of the third infusion you must not put any more brandy to it, as it will not bear it, but may add about 1 pint of water to