BIS BIS [ 115 1 lay this mixture on paper in cakes the eighth of an inch thick, and about two inches in diameter; lay them quite flat, and do not let them touch. The oven should be hot; five minutes will bake them. When cold wet the under side of the paper, and they will remove easily. BISCUITS, JESSAMINE. The Spanish jessamine is the best, but if not to be procured take English jessamine flowers, clean picked from the stalk; beat them well in a marble mortar, and put to them the whites of eggs and powder sugar, and lay sugar under them in a dish or on papers ; cover them with sugar, and bake them in a gentle oven. BISCUITS, KING'S. Put ilb. of butter into a basin, and work it about well with a wooden spoon; break 6 eggs, and whisk them well; add i lb. of powdered sugar, and whisk ten minutes longer; then mix them with the butter; stir in 6 ozs. of currants, and the same quantity of dried flour. When all is well mixed drop it the size of a shilling on paper, and bake in a quick oven. Take them off while hot. BISCUITS, LEMAN'S. Sift and dry 1 lb. of fine flour ; rub it into J lb. of butter, 2 ozs. of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and a bit of volatile salt about the size of a nut; mix in as much warmed new milk as will make it into a stiff paste; work it well together, and let it remain for two or three hours; then roll it out, and make it into small square biscuits and round balls a little flattened; piick them with a fork, and bake them upon tins in a quick oven. Take care they do not become brown. BISCUITS, LIGHT. Put the yolks of 5 eggs into a pan, with a few crisped orange flowers and the peel of a lemon shredded fine. Add f lb. of fine lump sugar, and beat the whole till this last is dissolved. Then beat the whites of 10 eggs, and when well frothed mix the same with the sugar. Stir lightly 6 ozs. of flour, and put the biscuits in an oblong form on some paper; sift a little fine sugar over them, and bake them in a moderate oven. Sweetmeats may be added. BISCUITS, MARBLED. Make 24 eggs, 1 lb. of powder sugar, and fib. of dried and sifted flour into a biscuit paste, as directed for Spoon Biscuits ; then beat 4 ozs. of dissolved choco- late in an earthen pan, and add to it a third of the paste. When it is well mixed divide it in half, and to one half mix a quarter of the biscuit paste, which will tinge that portion with a light chocolate colour. After this mix to- gether some vegetable red and infusion of saffron to colour the remaining half orange; then divide that again, and mix the last quarter with half the orange colour; thus your paste will be coloured with two shades of chocolate and two of orange. Make two paper cases, each eight inches square and three high ; pour into one of these a large spoonful of chocolate paste, and when it has spread over the bottom of the case pour in one of the orange coloured, on which pour another of chocolate, and so on alternately until the case is half full; then sprinkle it with flour, and put it into a slow oven for three quarters of an hour. Put the remainder of your biscuit paste (both colours) into a pan, and stir them together with a spoon till the whole is veined or clouded with the two colours ; pour the paste into the other case, sprinkle it with flour, and bake it like the former. When quite cold cut it into slices about two inches thick, half of which should be broken, and the other half cut in pieces of an equal size; lay them on a baking plate, and dry them in the oven. These are generally used to make the rocks in orna- mental pastry, and may be coloured with the usual materials according to your fancy. BISCUITS, MONKEY. Take the weight of 6 eggs in powder sugar, and mix it with the yolks of the 6 eggs and a little pounded cinnamon; whisk the whites to a firm froth, and stir them lightly into the yolks ; add 4 whole eggs, and their weight of dry sifted flour; mix them well to- gether ; take this mixture in a spoon, and lay it, in about the size of a half-crown piece, on paper; join two together with the spoon, and when your paper is full sprinkle powder sugar over, and bake them; a few minutes will do them. Remove them from the paper while hot and put the two under sides together. BISCUITS, MUSCOVY. Take green lemon peel, orange-flower marmalade, and apricot mar- malade, of each 4 drachms ; 4 whites of eggs and 3 ozs. of powder sugar; whip the whites to a snow, pound the marmalade to a paste, and pass it through a sieve ; then add the eggs and sugar, mixing them well together, put them in buttered paper cases, and bake them. When sufficiently done glaze them with powder sugar and white of egg, and decorate them with non- pareils. BISCUITS, NAPLES. Boil 1 lb. of Lisbon sugar in ^ pint of water, with a small glassful of orange-flower water till the former is melted. Break 8 eggs, and whisk them well together; then put thereto the syrup boiling hot, whisking it all the while till cold, and then mix it with 1 lb. of fine flour; lay 3 sheets of paper on a baking plate, and make the edges of 1 sheet stand Up nearly 2 inches high. Pour in the butter, sift some powdered lump sugar over it, and set it in the oven, watching it well. When baked let it stand till cold ; then wet the paper to make it come off. Cut the biscuits into four. BISCUITS, QUEEN'S. Take l^lb. of flour, the whites of 24 and the yolks of 18 eggs, put in coriander seeds beaten small at discre-