CUP. CUR [ 390 ] red currants ; put brandy paper over them, tie them closely down with another paper, and set them in a dry place. CURRIES. The curries usually presented at our tables in England bear no other resemblance to those of India than in that of name. They are abominable compounds of cumin and coriander seeds, turmeric powder, ginger, and Cayenne pepper, wrought up into a mass floating in a greasy liquid, unless the latter is absorbed by rice boiled to a pulp being placed in the dish with the curiy. In India the food of the natives is rice; the curry is a sort of savoury accompaniment to render the rice palatable. Here, on the contrary, the mis- taken notions of our " pi'ofessed cooks " have led them to suppose that rice is a sort of sauce for curry, which must therefore be eaten with a table-spoonful of it in the gravy. Thus English curries are nauseous messes, and out of those houses whose occupants have some knowledge of India ai'e not to be tasted. There is also in this country a sort of prejudice attached to curry, which assigns to it only certain specific meats as deserving of the honours of the curry powder. The most usual curry is that of rabbits, then veal, then calf's head, and then, but more rarely, chicken and mutton chops ; but the truth is that all possible meats make a good curry, though in India some of the older votaries of good living have a leaning towards a breast of Bengal mutton by way of a change. Hare curry is extremely good; but the best curries, in the judgment of those of most refined taste, are tho fish curries. The prawn curry, the oyster curry, the curry made of lobster, crawfish, sole, cod, whiting, haddock, or halibut, and though last, not least, the curry made of sturgeon, are all of high ex- cellence, very wholesome, and deserving of the best attention of the refined feeder, who can use and not abuse, who can enjoy without commit- ting excess. There are to be found distributed among the English " professed cooks " some ten or twelve thousand recipes for making curry powder, all being modifications of the same mixture, and all containing the same ingredients except car- damom seeds (which, on account of the expense, are to be found only in the curries of the wealthy), which ought to form one of the principal in- gredients of the dish. In India the cooks have no curry powder; they pound and mix the various seeds and s,pices as they require them. In England much stress is laid upon curry powder brought from India; but this is a mere delusion. For use on board ship bottles of curry powder are made up in India, because to take the unprepared seeds would be inconvenient; but very frequently this powder is detestable, though made in India; and on board thecountrysliipstha curries are sometimes not eatable, unless you can obtain soire of the salt-fish curries of the lascars, or native seamen, or induce any of t!:e latter to make you a curry from the ingredients they have in store for themselves. Thus, then, the idea that curry powder brought from India is preferable is perfect nonsense. It can be made here just as good, allowing for the want of freshness in the seeds to form it, and for the difference between the juice of the fresh turmeric root, and the nasty dry powder which you are here obliged to substitute for it, all wliich disadvantages attach equally to the powder brought from India. Turmeric powder is here used to excess, and from it is derived that particularly nauseous taste of which all well-informed cun-y eaters complain. Again, the curry is made so hot with Cayenne pepper that few can eat it without blistering the tongue. This is another mistake. In India there is the mild curry and the hot curry. The former contains no Cayenne pepper or chilli ; the latter is warmed, not with Cayenne pepper, but with the green chilli, which is always pre- ferable. The choice of these curries is a mere matter of taste, for the stimulus of the seeds will generally be found sufficient for the stomachs of those who prefer the mild. Another thing to be observed is the addition of vegetables to curry when made either of fish or of meat. Nothing is nicer than a cucumber cut into bits, or the vegetable marrows sold at Covent Garden. Both are particularly good in lobster curry. They must be added a sufficient time before the curry is ready, to admit of their being thoroughly done. In lobster or crawfish cui-ry they should be put in soon after the fish. To- matoes, or love-apples, are almost indispensable to make first-rate curry; but great care must be taken not to use too many, as the acid must not be very predominant. Cocoa-nut is one of the most successful additions to curry, which ought never to be made without it; or, when it is not to be had, some substitute, such as Brazil nut, which answers the purpose very well. To make lobster curry let the meat of the lobster be taken out and cut into pieces not too small; and, if it be a hen lobster, let the spawn be pounded in a mortar and rubbed up with a little butter ; then take three or four spoonsful of curry powder, dry it in a plate before the fire, and mix it with the lobster, together with a clove of garlic chopped finely and some salt. Take the milk out of a cocoa-nut, then cut the nut open, and rasp very finely about one-third of the meat. Have also your vegetables ready. Put a stewpan on the fire with a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, and fry in this an onion cut into thin slices until it is brown; add