DIA DEV [ 413 I the top, and serve it without breaking the curd. DEVONSHIRE SQUASH PIE. Cover the dish with a good crust, then place at the bottom a layer of sliced apples, and upon them a layer of mutton cut from the loin and seasoned with pepper and salt; then put another layer of apples, then one of mutton, and, lastly, a mix- ture of sliced onions and apples; pour in a pint of water, cover the pie, and place it in the oven. DEVONSHIRE STEW. Mix together the following articles previously boiled and shred :— Potatoes, cabbage or greens, and onions; season with pepper and salt; put the whole into a pan, with a lump of nice beef dripping or butter, and stir it until hot: it is then ready for use. Double the quantity of potatoes are required to the cabbage and onions. This is a cheap dish, and eats well with hot or cold meat. Potatoes and cabbage left at dinner the day previous will answer the purpose. The water should be changed at least twice during the boiling of the onions. DEVONSHIRE WHITE POT. Beat up a pint of cream with four eggs, a little salt, some sliced nutmeg, and a good deal of sugar ; then slice very thinly almost the whole of the crumb of a penny loaf, and put it into a dish ; pour the eggs and cream to it, a handful of raisins of the sun boiled, and a little sweet butter; bake it. DIABETES is an immoderate flow of urine. There are two species of this complaint; the one (diabetes insipidus), in which there is a super- abundant discharge of limpid urine of its usual urinary taste; the other (^diabetes mellitus), in which the urine is very sweet, and contains a great quantity of sugar. People of shattered constitutions and those in the decline of life are most subject to its attacks. The characteristics of this disease are great thirst, with a voracious appetite, gradual emacia- tion of the whole body, and a frequent discharge of urine containing a large proportion of sac- charine and other matter, which is generally voided in a quantity greatly exceeding the quantity of aliment or fluid taken into the sys- tem for the purposes of the animal economy. It is notunfrequently an attendant on hysterical, hypochondriacal, dyspeptic, and asthmatic sub- jects, but it is always much milder when it is a symptom of some other complaint than when it is a primary affection. A variety of remedie's have been proposed for this disease, but their ultimate success has been generally found to be precarious, or only tem- porary, at least in the mellitic form of the disease. The mode of treating it has, for the most part, been conducted on the principle of determining the fluids to other outlets, particularly the slun and the kidneys, whence the disease is said to arise. A diet consisting exclusively of animal food has been much extolled by Dr. Rolls, who was in the laabit of using the sulphuret of potash (ten grains, with the confection of roses) in the form of bolus three times a day ; and a case is recorded which was successfully treated by putting the patient on a diet consisting principally of animal food, with a generous allowance of porter, giving at the same time the nitric acid in the proportion of from one to thi-ee drachms of the acid to 2 lbs. of water, with about 2 ozs. of sugar daily. DIABLOTINS. Pound some chocolate with a little olive oil into a stiff paste, of which take small pieces, and roll them in your hands into tlie shape of nuts, olives, &c., either round or flat; strew over them nonpareils of different colours, and dry them in cases like other sweet- meats. DIACHYLON is a plaster made of 1 oz. of litharge (half-vitrified oxide of lead) and 2 ozs. of olive oil, boiled together until they have united. A little water must be added to prevent the plaster burning. It is the basis of other plasters, opium, asafoetida, &c., being added. Diachylon by itself is used to put over slight wounds and excoriations, to defend them from the air and from further injuiy. DIAMOND CEMENT. See Cement, Ar- MEKIAN. DIAPHORETICS are medicines producing gentle perspiration, and are usually small doses- of the same medicines as are employed for more profuse sweating. See Sudorifics. DIARRHCE A, or Looseness of the Bowels. The characteristics of this disease are frequent and copious discharges of feculent matter by stool, attended with considerable griping pain, each stool being usually preceded by a murmur- ing noise and flatulence in the intestines, accom- panied with a sense of weight and uneasiness in the lower part of the belly, which subside on the discharge taking place, but which recur before the succeeding one comes on. In addition to these there are frequently sickness, nausea, and vomiting; the countenance turns pale, and sometimes sallow; thirst, bitterness, di-yness of the mouth, and yellowness of the tongue indi- cating the presence of bile in the intestines; the skin is dry and rigid, and if the disease continues great emaciation succeeds. It is distinguislied from dysentery and flux by being unatttnied with either inflammation, fever, contagion, or tenesmus, by the appearance of the matter evacuated, which in diarrhoeas or looseness is feculent, or mixed with alimentary matter, in the other mixed with blood and putrid, and from the latter being contagious, the other not.