BUR BUK second wines are not so choice, but have more body and spirit. Tiiey ai'e reported to bear exportation better than any other, and to have been frequently sent to England, and always into Italy, without suffering from change. Ked Wines of the Second Quality. La Ciivee Clairion produces wines possessing the qualities of those of La Chainette. La Cuvee Boivin wines are comparable with those of Migrenne. Les Cuvees Judas, Pied de Rat, Eosoir, and Quetard occupy the first rank. Ejnneuil wines differ little from those of Ton- nerre. Les Coteaux, called La Poche, La Haute- Perriere, Le Buisson, Bridenne, and Chausoin are particularly distinguished. Wines of a pale colour are made, called vins gris, light and delicate, but heady. Irancy, a canton of Coulanges, pro- duces wines of good colour, full-bodied, and gener- ous : Palotte is distinguished. The Benedictines found so much quality in the wine of La Palotte that they mixed it with the wine of La Chainette, to put it into a state to bear exportation. The crus, called du Paradis, de Bergere, de Vaux Chasses, and des Cailles are inferior to La Pa- lotte, but give excellent wines. Danemoine has also growths, called Les Marguentes and Les Corbemoreau Coulanges. La Vineuse has still vineyards of reputation; the most esteemed is that du Seigneur. The owner has kept the ancient plant Le Franc Pineau. Few others have followed his example, and by rooting out this vine, and substituting others more pro- lluctive, they have destroyed the reputation of the wines. Eed Wines of the Thied Quality. Fince- lotte, near Irancy, produces wines of the same kind as those of Irancy, but inferior. Auxerre again appears as furnishing wines of the second growths of La Grande Cote, and in the choice from other slopes in this district full-bodied and gener- ous wines, but less delicate than the first. The best are the wines du Tureau, du Moutardoin, de St. Nitace. At Avalon many good wines are produced, amongst which are distinguished those de la Cote d'Annay, de Rouvre, and du Teau, particularly the vineyard called Le Champ Gachot. Vezelay and Oivry produce wines of a good quality; the best in the vineyards are called Le Clos at Vezelay, and La Girande at Givry. These wines are stated to bear particularly well the passage by sea. They become sometimes thick and of a bad flavour, but, suffered to rest three or four months, they recover their clear- ness and quality. In this class may also be reckoned the vineyards of La Belle Fille at Jussy, St. Jacques at Joigny, du Chateau at Tronchoil, and La Vieille Plante at Pontigny. Red Wines of the Fourth Quality. Cheney, Volichere, Tronchoil, Molosme, near Tonnerre, and some other vineyards, give good wines. Cravant, canton of Vermanton, wines are of deep colour, body, and strong gout. Jussy wines are of the kind of Coulanges and La Belle Fille. Vermanton wines are light, agreeable, and soon ripe. The vineyards of Bertry, La Vaux Maine, Nandigion, Les Plaites-Hautes, and La Grande Cote bear the highest reputation. Joigny wines are light, dehcate, and very pleasant, but are accused of quickly attacking the head. Those of La Cote St. Jacques, Migrenne, and St. Michael are the best. The vineyards of St. Bris, called LaPoire, Les Chaussans, La Chaise, Les Perprauts, La Voie Blanche, and Blamoy furnish wines of a good colour, full body, and good flavour. Arcy-sur- Cure has wines of the first growths like those of Coulanges, and nearly resembling them in qua- lity. At Pontigny, three leagues from Auxerre, the produce in general is only common wines; but one vine, called La Vieille Plante, furnishes wine which unites the seve and bouquet of Bordeaux with the other qualities of Burgundy. Vegennes, Juney, St. Martin, Commissay, and some other vujeyards, give wines of good colour and flavour, and are very firm. Ville-Neuve-sur- Yonne, St. Julien du Sault, and many communes with Joigny, produce good wines, which, when well-chosen and in good season, keep well and improve. Paron, near Sens, has the only yine- yard of any reputation. Veron produces wines of a good colour, and they soon become ripe. The other wines are more or less common, and are only sent to Paris. White Wines of the First Quality. Ton- nerre, Les Cotes de Vaumorillon, and des Gri- sees give wines full of body, delicacy, and spirit. Chablis, four leagues from Auxerre, produces wines much esteemed, the best of which are ranked amongst the second in the countty. Above all other wines they keep their trans- parent whiteness. They are spirited without being heady, have body, delicacy, and bouquet. The growths most in request are:—1. Le Clos. This wine, strong in spirit, is a little harsh the first year, but becomes very agreeable and keeps well. 2. The growths of Valmur and Grenolles. These wines have more sweetness and delicacy than those of Le Clos; but having lost the quality called nioustille, they are less spirituous, and do not keep. 3. Vaudesir, Bouguereau, and Mont de Milieu give very fine wines, and of the most perfect transparency. In order to come to their highest degree of quality these wines should be kept two years in cask and one in bottle. They will keep many years. White Wines of the Second Quality. Many vineyards of the canton of Chablis pro- duce wines which difier little from those above, viz.. La Cote Delchet, La Fourchaume, part of the Cotes de Troene, de Vaucompin, de Blanchot, and de Fontmay, Tonnerre has some crus which