COR [ 363 ] COP _/et it may be used by painters in the same maunei' as any other diying oil, on account of the greater lustre and permanency which such colours derive from it than are obtained from the common oil varnishes. Notwithstanding we have mentioned specific quantities of the in- gredients, it must be obvious that the relative proportions may be varied accordingly as it is required to dry faster or slower. It should also be remarked that both the ingredients must be hot, because if either of them be cold the mixture will become turbid, and a part, nay, often the whole, of the copal be precipitated ; but this inconvenience may be avoided by mixing and boiling them together in the manner above directed; yet as after some time a spontaneous alteration takes place, which diminishes, and at length destroys, the drying quality of this mixture, it will be advisable to use it fresh, or at least not to employ it after it has been prepared longer than a month or six weeks. This varnish is also applied to snuff-boxes, tea-boards, and other articles. It preserves and gives lustre to paintings, and greatly restores the faded colours of old pictures by filling up the cracks, and rendering the surfaces capable of reflecting light more uniformly. COPPER VESSELS. Copper utensils, when not properly cleaned, contaminate acid substances boiled in them. Vinegar dissolves the oxide with ease, as does also ammonia. EUer has proved that wine dissolves copper, doubtless in conse- quence of the acetic acid contained in it, and the oxidation of the metal by the air; and we can explain in the same way the production of acetate in the cocks of the vessels from which wine, beer, or cider is drawn. Drouard was affected for three days with colic and dian-hcea, in consequence of eating a ragout which had been seasoned with wine drawn out of a cask, the cock of which contained acetate of copper, which this liquor had in part dissolved. Fat bodies, such as fixed and essential oils, &c., dissolve the oxide and carbonate of copper with readiness, and hence Proust very justly condemns the use of copper measures for oil. The investigations of M. Marcelin Duval and the earlier experiments of Orfila seemed to prove that sugar was the antidote for verdigris. It allayed the pain and other alarming symp- toms, and produced a great number of liquid stools. Subsequent researches have, however, diminished the value of this substance. It is useful in calming the irritation when the poison has been expelled by vomiting, but it exerts no chemical action on it; and animals in whom the oesophagus was tied died, notwithstanding large doses of syrup were administered. When albu- men was given under similar circumstances the animal survived several day$, experienced no remarkable change, and after death no lesion was found. It is hence the proper antidote, while sugar and its preparations may be used to aid its operation. Drs. Mylne Edwards and Dumas have also found in their expei'iments on animals that me- tallic iron is a good antidote. When 15, 20, and even 50 grains of sulphate of copper, acetate of copper, or verdigris were given to animals, and 1 oz. of iron filings administered either immediately before or immediately afterwards, the gullet being tied to prevent the discharge of the poison, death did not ensue for five, six, or even eight days, and consequently proceeded from the operation on the gullet; and in one ex- periment, on the ligature being removed from the gullet, the opening healed up, and complete recovery took place. The ferrocyanate of potash is also recom- mended by Dr. O'Shaughnessy as an antidote, from its powers of decomposition. The use of vinegar should in cases of poison- ing be strictly interdicted, since it must prove injurious from its solvent power over the salts of copper. Should any inflammatory symptoms remain after the presumed evacuation of the poison they should be treated like gastritis, and opium and antispasmodics may be indicated for the spas- modic affections that are apt to remain. COPYING INK. This is made by dis- solving ^ oz. of moist sugar in i pint of common writing ink. COPYING PAPER. This, called also tracing paper, is made by brushing over tissue paper, or silver paper, as it is sometimes called, with a mixture composed of 1 oz. of Canada balsam mixed with 1 oz. of spirit of turpentine. Hang the paper up until dry. If one coating of the mixture does not render the paper suffi- ciently transparent give it a second coating. CORAL is the habitation of a marine insect, and is raised by degrees by that insect from the bottom of the sea, so as to form some of the reefs most dangerous to the navigator. There are properly but three kinds of coral, namely, red, white, and black. The last of these is the rarest and most esteemed. When coral is first taken out of the sea the small protuberances on its surface are soft, and yield on expression a milky juice which effervesces with acids. The cortical part, or the external coat, is not so com- pact as the internal, and may easily be separated while in a fresh state. The greatest traffic in this article is carried on at Genoa and Leghorn. Coral is not unfrequently imitated by artificial- compositions so as to resemble the real; but this fraud may be detected by exposing it to fire, as the counterfeit does not afford the alkaline 2 X