C S5 ] BAG BAG Gloucesterslure, where the closelr-wooded lands, subjected in all parts to the rigiits of common, afford a sweeter nourishment to the swine than a more open country, intersected with numerous enclosures, and every inch of which is either tilled or meadow land. The process of curing the flitches and hams in Suffolk is this. For the tacon, 3 lbs. of white and 2 lbs. of bay salt, 6 ozs. of sal prunella, and 4 lbs. of coarse brown sugar, are heated and rubbed as hot as the hand can bear over the flitches, after the latter have been sprinkled with salt and laid in a pan during twenty-four hours, and then wiped very dry. The moment the hot pickle has been applied to them they are laid, each as it is rubbed, in a clean salting- pan, one upon the other, when the brine instantly begins to form. They are rubbed and basted with the brine, and turned three times a week, putting the under flitch uppermost each time, till the expiration of four weeks, when they are hung up to diy, prior to their being smoked. In Norfolk the bacon and hams are cured much alike. The inhabitants of Norfolk are methodical persons who always go by weight and measure; it is, therefore, easy to describe their process very accurately. For | cwt. of bacon, making 4 stone or 5 6 lbs. weight, 5 lbs. of common salt are mixed with J lb. of pounded bay salt, 3 ozs. of saltpetre, the same quantity of sal prunella, and 4^ lbs. of coarse brown sugar The bacon, in the meanwhile, has been sprinkled with salt and put into a tray, where it has lain during twenty-four hours. It is now put into a clean tray, or into a pan, and the above pickle rubbed into it before the fire, as near it as possible without inconvenience. It is turned and basted in the brine every day during a month. It is then taken out and smoked during five or six days. The bacon made in Somersetshire is also of very fine quality; but none of it finds its way to the London market. The bacon from Wilt- shire, termed in London Hampshire bacon, is an imitation of the Somersetshire, being, like this latter, cured with salt only, but being also very inferior to it. The moment a hog is killed in Somersetshire, it is cut up as rapidly as possible, and the sides or flitches sprinkled aU over with bay salt, and laid in wooden troughs, where they are suffered to disgorge during twenty-four hours. They are then taken out and wiped dry. Meanwhile the troughs are thoroughly washed of these disgorgings, and well wiped. A quantity of bay salt is then heated in a frying-pan, and the flitches being replaced in the troughs, as much hot salt as they will absorb is rubbed into them, the temperature of the salt being kept at the highest point that the operator can bear. This friction is repeated every day during four successive days, but the flitches are turned only twice in the interval, that is to say, each second day. The bacon, if the flitches are large, which is generally the case in Somerset- shire, remain three weeks in the brine, being turned once in two days during this period. If the sides are small, they are removed from the brine at the expiration of sixteen days. When taken from the troughs, they are hung to dry, but not smoked. The delicious bacon of Gloucestershire, which, were it prepared after the manner adopted in Buckinghamshire, or that followed in Suffolk, would be still better, is cured like that of Somersetshire, with salt alone. In many parts of this beautiful county, among the peasantry and small farmers of the lower vale, and more especially among the foresters and miners of the Forest of Dean, the head, the chines, spare- ribs, &c., of the slaughtered hog being removed, the body is divided down the spine into two equal parts, each side retaining its ham and shoulder. On being ready, the sides are sprinkled over with salt and placed in a trough, where they disgorge during twenty-four hours. They are then taken out and wiped dry, whilst the trough is washed and dried. In the meantime, ^ lb. of saltpetre is rubbed into each side, a greater proportion being applied upon and round the hams and shoulders. After the saltpetre has been left three or four hours to penetrate into the meat, this latter is rubbed with as much hot salt as it will absorb, and the sides replaced one above the other in the trough. Two days after, they are turned and rubbed again with salt, which salting and turning is repeated once more at the expiration of two other days. They are now salted no more, but are turned every two days during a month, calculated from the period of their being rubbed with saltpetre ; at the expiration of which time they are taken from the brine and hung up to dry without being smoked. In conclusion we give directions for keeping bacon for any length of time without its be- coming rusty. When the bacon has been dried and smoked, if it be smoked bacon, have a common deal box made large enough to con- tain all you want to preserve. Put a good bedding of hay, the freshest possible, in the bottom of the box, then encase each flitch or piece of bacon in a wrapping of twisted hay, and place a strong layer of loose hay between each two flitches, with a good layer over the last when the box is full. It must then be closed tightly, and put in a dry place. The bacon will improve by being kept thus, and will remain sweet and good for almost any length of time. Hams may be nreserved in the same