[ 26 ] APO APE as mechanical stimulants upon the fibre. It would not be difficult to derive many illustra- tions of tbis fact from the history of herbi- vorous quadrupeds, and we have been disposed to consider the harsh and coarse texture which certain grasses assume in moist situations, as being calculated to furnish an increased stimulus to the intestines of the animals who feed upon them, at a time when their diminished nutritive qualities must render such a result desirable ; but the operation of a mechanical laxative may be demonstrated by a more familiar example; the addition of bran to our bread, constituting what is known by the name of brown bread, induces laxative effects, merely from the me- chanical friction of the rough particles or scales of the bran upon the inner coats of the in- testines, for the wheat without the bran in bread is not particularly laxative. The practical application of this fact may be useful, and digestion, in many cases, may be promoted by the simple expedient of changing the quality of our bread. Other cathartics stimulate the fibres to a much greater degree, and the effects are either confined to a part of the canal, or commu- nicated to the whole range of the intestines, from the duodenum to the extremity of the rectum: aloes will furnish a good example of the former, and colocynth may be adduced as an instance of the latter mode of operation. Other cathartics, again, direct all their stimulus to the exhalant vessels, and are accordingly distinguished by the force with which they produce serous evacuations; and for which reason they were formerly denominated hyclra- (jogues; such are saline purgatives, and certain vegetable bodies to be hereafter described. Dr. Cullen has even supposed that some of these medicines may act solely in this way, and with- out increasing directly the peristaltic motion. There is, however, as Dr. Murray very justly remarks, no proof of such an hypothesis, and it seems scarcely probable that any substance should act as a stimulant on these vessels, without at the same time stimulating the mobile fibres of the intestines. Mercurial purgatives appear to possess, in an eminent degree, the power of exciting the functions of the liver, and of thereby occasioning an influx of bile into the intestines. From the indications which cathar- tics are capable of iulfiUing, their utility in many diseases must be apparent. The extent of their importance and value were, however, never justly appreciated until the valuable publication of Dr. Hamilton on this subject, in which the author has pointed out, with more precision than any preceding writers had done, the therapeutic principles which should regulate their adminis- tration. Hia practice has clearly proved that a state of bowels may exist in many diseases, giving rise to a retention of feculent matter, which will not be obviated by the occasional ad- ministration of a purgative, but which requires a continuation of that purgative until the healthy action of the bowels is re-established. Since this view of the subject has been adopted, numerous diseases have received alleviation from the use of purgatives that were formerly treated with a dilferent class of remedies, and which were not supposed to have any connection with the state of the alvine evacuations. Thus in fever, the peristaltic motion of the intestines is diminished, and their feculent contents are unduly retained, becoming, of course, a source of morbid irritation. This fact has been long understood, and the practice of administering cathartic medicines under such circumstances has been very generally adopted; but until the publication of Dr. Hamilton's book, physicians were not aware of the necessity of carrying the plan to an extent beyond that of merely empty- ing the bowels, and they did not continue the free use of these remedies through the whole progress of the disease. The importance of cathartic medicines having been shown, and the distinctions in their modes of operation established, it only remains to say a few words upon the subject of their abuse. All the remedies of this class, but more especially those of considerable power, require caution in their administration, even in those diseases where they are indicated by peculiar symptoms, especially if there be any tendency to inflammation, or to extreme debility, although this latter symptom is often rather apparent than real, and is at once removed by the brisk operation upon the bowels. During pregnancy, and immediately after delivery, and during some other periods, the prudent practitioner will use a discretionary caution in their ex- hibition. The too frequent use of these medicines will induce marasmus, and render the bowels so morbidly irritable that purging is easily excited by the ordinary stimulus of our aliments; while in some habits the contrary occurs, and the resource to which the valetudinarian flies for relief only increases the torpor of the intestines and confirms his costiveness. APOPLEXY. This requires the most prompt treatment. Send for a surgeon im- mediately ; remove the neckcloth or other covering from about the throat; support the body as much as possible in a sitting posture; apply to the head cloths dipped in cold water, or cold vinegar and water, and place the feet in water almost scalding hot. There are many kinds of this disease, which consists in a sudden diminution and abolition