[ 271 ] CHE CHE berry or ash leaves, and cover it with more of the same. Shift and turn it twice a day, re- newing the leaves for a fortnight, when it will be fit to eat. If wanted sooner it may be kept in a warm place between two pewter dishes, covered with leaves as before. CHEESE, CREAM (Ickd). Boil 1 pint of good cream, then put ^ lb. of sugar to it, about a dozen of sweet almonds pounded, a little preserved orange flowers or orange-flower water, and rasped lemon-peel; boil together a few minutes. When you take it off the fire add 5 yolks of eggs beaten up, and stir it continually till they are well mixed with the cream ; strain it in a sieve, and put it into the icing-pot. When it is pretty much iced work it well to put it into cheese moulds ; ice it again, and serve as usual. It is also done with coffee and choco- late in the same manner as the ices, only that each is thickened with 4 or 5 yolks of eggs, as directed in the first, and moulded like a cheese, which gives it the name. CHEESE, CREAM (Iced a la Botje- geoise). Boil 1 pint of very good thick cream with I" pint of milk, the yolk of a,n egg, and f lb. of sugar. When it has boiled up five or six times take it off the fire, and flavour it with any aromatic, either orange flower, bergamot, or lemon. Pour the jDreparation into tin moulds to ice; put these moulds into little pails, having first put at the bottom of your J ails some ice well pounded, with some salt or saltpetre, and place ice and saltpetre all round the moulds till it reaches the top of the moulds. When the cheese is iced and you are ready to serve it, dip your moulds in warm water, to loosen your cheese from the moulds, and then turn your cheeses into a dish. They fchould be eaten the moment they are served. CHEESE, CREAM (Whipped). Chop very fine a piece of green lemon-peel, and put it into an earthen pan with 1 J- pint of good thick cream and a piece of gum dragon about the size of a pea powdered. Whip your cream, and as the whip rises take it off with the skimmer, and put it in an osier basket. If the basket is not very close you must put a piece of muslin m it. When the cream is all whipped, and it is suf- ficiently drained, serve it on a dish with powdered sugar over it. CHEESE, CREAM, AND MARMALADE. Boil 1 pint of cream, mix with it a few spoons- ful of any kind of marmalade you please, and a little dried, preserved lemon-peel chopped fine. When it is but just milkwarm put some rennet to it, and serve it with pounded sugar over it. CHEESE, CREAM, A LA PRINCESSE. Boil 1 pint of cream with 1 pint of milk, k grains of salt, a little grated lemon-peel, a little coriander, a little cinnamon, and 3 ozs. of sugar. Let the whole boil until reduced to half; then take it oif the fire, and when it is lukewarm throw into it a piece of rennet a little larger than a pea, mixed with a spoonful of water; pass the cream through a sieve, and then put it over some warm ashes. When the curd is produced, put it into a little osier basket to drain, and when it has taken the form of a cheese turn it into a dish. CHEESE, CURD (Florentine). Break to pieces 2 lbs. of cheese curd, take 1 lb. of blanched almonds finely pounded, with a little rose water, J lb. of currants, clean washed and picked, some stewed spinach cut small. Sweeten it with some sugar. Mix it all well together. Lay a puff-paste in the dish, put in the ingre- dients, cover it with a thin crust rolled and laid across. Bake it in a moderate oven; it takes an hour. The top crust may be cut any shape. CHEESE, CURD, PUDDING. Take the curd from a gallon of milk turned with rennet; drain off the milk completely, and beat it in a mortar, with ^Ib. of fresh butter. Strain to this the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites of 3 eggs, well beaten; add 2 Naples biscuits, or half a small roll grated, and sweeten the whole. Put it into a buttered tin, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done turn it into a dish, and garnish with citron, candied orange-peel, and blanched almonds cut in slips. Sprinkle powder sugar over, and serve it with melted butter and a little sack. CHEESE, EGG. Boil 3 quarts of new milk with 1 pint of cream, loaf sugar, cinna- mon, mace, and lemon-peel. When it tastes well of the seasoning strain it through a sieve, and beat 8 eggs with the juice of 3 lemons and 1 orange; put them in the milk pretty hot; stir it on the fire till it becomes curds; cool it, and pour it in a thin cloth laid on a sieve to drain; then press the curd into a mould for the purpose with holes in. Let it drain two hours, then turn it on a dish, and pour a cream on it. CHEESE ENTREES. Parmesan cheese should be made use of for entrees, and it should be grated, and the meat or fish with which it is served should be dressed d la braise or en ragout. Very little salt must be used in the sauce or meat, as Parmesan is in itself very salt. Put into the bottom of the dish in which you are going to serve your meat some of the sauce you intend to use with your meat, then strew with grated cheese. Place your meat upon this, pour over the remainder of your sauce, and cover the whole with Parmesan. Then put it in an oven, or under a baking-pan to brown, and serve it with thick sauce. CHEESE, FONDUE OF. Make a sort of pap with I pint of cream, or good milk and potato-flour; add a little salt. When the pap