BUT BUT [ 186 ] crease its bulk and weight. Pots are frequently laid with good butter for a little way at the top, and with bad at the bottom. Sometimes the butter is placed in upright rolls, touching one another above, so as to form a uniform surface, but receding so as to leave empty spaces below. Sometimes tallow or hog's lard is found to con- stitute no small proportion of what the purchaser deemed good butter. BUTTER, ALMOND. Put 1 pint of cream on a slow fire, with 8 eggs well beaten and strained; stir them one way till they are ready to boil; put in a glass of rich, sweet wine, and continue stirring till it comes to a curd. Strain off the whey, pound the curd with 9 ozs. of almond paste and 3 ozs. of sugar, put it into potting-pans, or turn it out of moulds. To be eaten with bread as sweet zests. BUTTER BISCUITS. Make a paste as for Sweet Biscuits, and when you have put in the flour pour over it 8 ozs. of melted butter after it has cooled a little; mix them together a short time with a wooden spoon, and put it into buttered moulds, which must only be filled three parts, as the paste puffs up considerably, and would rise from the mould without care. BUTTER, BLACK. Use 3 lbs. of fruit (currants, gooseberries, raspberries, and cherries) to 1 lb. of coarse sugar, and boil till quite thick. It must waste to half the quantity. BUTTER, BORDERS OF. Take ilb. of fresh butter, work it up well with a knife, mix- ing with it either of the following colouring materials :—For rose colour, a little infusion of carmine or any vegetable red; green, spinach- juice ; yelloiv, an infusion of saffron; violet, a little Prussian blue added to the red ; orange, the red and yellow joined together. Take some of either colour, and spread it equally over two saucepan-lids, laying it about three-eighths of an inch in thickness. Place the lids on pounded ice, and when the butter is congealed remove it with the blade of a knife, and lay it on a napkin; then, with a tin paste-cutter, or stamp of what- ever figure you may choose, cut the butter, and place the figures in borders according to your fancy. Take care to dip your stamp in cold water frequently, as that will enable you to keep the edges of the butter sharp. BUTTER CAKES. See Cakes, Butter. BUTTER, CLARIFIED. Set it before the fire, and when it melts (if it has the least taint put into it a very nice well-browned toast or some lumps of charcoal; stir it about some time in it) let it settle. Do not strain it un- less it is absolutely necessary, as it would require a sweetmeat sieve, and that only tends to waste. Pour it clear off into a jar, let it cool, and put on a fitted cover with a bit of linen to prevent the introduction of air; if salt it may or may not be washed before it is melted according to the uses to be made of it. BUTTER, CURLED. To an iron hook in the wall tie two comei-s of a strong napkin; make a knot with the other two ends, so as to be able to pass a stick through it. Put into this napkin ^ lb. of butter, and twist it tightly over a dish, into which the butter will fall in very small and pretty strings to serve for a side-dish. BUTTER DROPS. Take three eggs, leave out half the whites; J lb. of flour; ^ lb. of sugar; J lb. of butter; two spoonsful of rose water; a little mace and seeds. BUTTER, FAIRY. Beat the yolks of two hard eggs in a mortar, with a large spoonful of orange-flower water, and 2 spoonsful of fine sugar; beat all to a fine paste. Add an equal quantity of butter, fresh from the chum, and force all together through a fine strainer, full of little holes, into a plate. BUTTER AND FENNEL. Wash some fennel very clean, and pick it leaf by leaf; put 1 tea-spoonful of salt into i pint of boiling water; boil the fennel about ten minutes; drain it on a sieve; mince it quite fine; and bruise it to a pulp. The delicacy and excellence of this elegant and innocent relish depends upon the fennel being minced very fine; put it into a sauce-boat, and mix with it, by degrees, about i pint of good melted butter, only do not put so much flour to it, as the fennel will add to its thickness. Never pour fennel and butter over boiled things, but send it up in a boat. BUTTER, FRESH: To Keep. To keep fresh butter, when fresh brought in, cover it with a sheet of white paper, and put it in a dark place, which must be free from mouldiness or confined air. Print no more at a time than what is to be used, as the more surface is exposed, the more liability there will be to spoil. The Scotch, after making excellent butter, often spoil it by print- ing it, and putting it into a weak pickle of salt and water. The surface, in a day or two, becomes clear and rancid, and, were it left long enough in the salt and water, though repeatedly changed, the whole mass would become equally corrupted. If fresh butter is in the least tainted, either in smell or taste, filter some charcoal or lime-water; boil in a wooden or earthen spoon and basin; put the butter in the water; spread it thin, but do not work it much; lay a bit of white paper, or turn a sweetmeat sieve over it; leave it some hours; taste if it is recovered; if not, leave it all night; work it in milk or water; beat and make it up. BUTTER, MELTED. If it is melted to make up different sauces, which is by far the easiest way where there is much to do, the butter ought to be fresh^ or washed from the salt, and melted with very little liquid. Use a very littL