FAT FE'A [ 486 ] ' For frying fish hold it by the head, and dip the end of the tail into the fry : if in a second of time this end becomes crisp let go the fish, which take care to turn when half done. Previously, however, the fish should be gutted, scaled, and cleaned, and when it is of a middling size cut into slices and floured. When the fish is fried set it to drain off its fat on a cloth, and serve it sprinkled with salt. FATNESS. See Corpulency. FAUBONNE. This soup is composed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celery, lettuce, sorrel, and chervil, all cut in dice except the lettuce and sorrel, which must be bruised. Warm up the roots in a little butter, then put in the lettuce, herbs, and chervil, moisten them with broth, and let them boil over a gentle fire for an hour, or more if necessary; then soak your bread in the usual way, and pour the faubonne over it. FAUCHONETTES. Put into a saucepan 2 ozs. of flour, 3 ozs. of sugar, 1 oz. of butter, Z ozs. of pounded almonds, some green lemon- peel, two yolks and one whole egg, a little salt, and half a pint of milk; put these ingredients on the fire, and let them set like a cream ; line some tartlet tins or moulds with puff paste, fill them with the preparation, place the moulds on a tin, and break the fauchonettes in a brisk oven. When about three parts done take them out, put frothed eggs on, sprinkle sugar over, and replace them in the oven to finish baking. FAWN should be dressed almost as soon as it is killed. When very young it should be trussed, stuffed, and spitted in the same manner as a hare; but it is better eating when of the size of the house lamb, and is then roasted in quarters. The hind quarter is considered the best. It must be done by a very quick fire, and either basted all the time it is roasting, or be covered with slices of fat bacon. When done baste it with butter, and dredge it with a little salt and flour till you get a nice fi'oth upon it. FAWN, SADDLE OF. Well lard it, and put it into a very large vessel, with salt, pepper, onions cut in slices, parsley, vinegar, spices, &c.; leave it to pickle for two or three days, taking care to turn it frequently on each side; then roast it, and serve with a poivrade under it. Mind that the fillets and both legs must be larded. FEAR. There is no emotion of the mind which, with a view to health, it is so necessary to subdue as that of fear. It has justly been called a base passion, and beneath the dignity of man. It robs him of power, re- flection, resolution, judgment, and, in short, of all that pre-eminence which the human mind ought to enjoy. To be terrified, thei-efore, for the effects of thunder, or the appearance of spirits in the night, or similar chimeras, cannot be too strongly reprobated. Fear also has great influence both in occa- sioning and in aggravating diseases, and in preventing their cure. Enlightened surgeons will undertake no important operation where the mind of the patient is greatly alarmed by fear, from a just apprehension of the immediate or remote consequences. By de- pressing the spirits fear not only disposes us to diseases, but often renders those diseases fatal which an undaunted mind would overcome. Indeed, the constant dread of some future evil, by dwelling on the mind, often occasions the very mischief which was so much apprehended. Timorous persons also are more readily infected by epidemical disorders than those possessed of true courage, because fear not only weakens the energy of the heart, but at the same time increases the susceptibility of receiving con- tagion. It increases the malignity of diseases, changes their natural course, aggravates them by a thousand incidental circumstances, and the efforts of nature being thus suppressed, nothing but a speedy dissolution can be looked for. This is a point which cannot be too much in- culcated ; for experience sufficiently demon- strates that many perish from despondency, who, if they had preserved their spirit and vigour of mind, might have siurvived many years. FEATHER BEDS. Feathers when good are light and elastic; if heavy and knotted together they are certainly bad. The quill of the feather should be cut off closely, and only the top of the feather retained. A great evil frequently attendant on new feathers is a disagreeable smell, which, we believe, is owing to the feathers not having been sufficiently stoved to destroy the animal juice. When there is this defect in a new feather bed the only remedy is either to have the feathers 4;aken out of the tick and stoved again, or to have the bed constantly in use. In time the smell wdll go off; but this latter remedy is not a very agreeable one. It is of importance to have a strong linen bedtick. A thin coarse one suffers the feathers to escape from it when the bed is shaken, and in time diminishes the bulk of the bed in a greater degree than many persons would imagine. To every bed there should be, besides the feather bed, either a wool or a hair mattress, a bolster, and two pillows. Those who like a high bed have straw paillasses under the mattress. Hair mattresses are not much more expensive than wool, and being elastic are generally liked better, although they are not so warm. Although we give these directions about