[ 111 ] BIR BIR often; then take such a cask as will hold the liquor, fire a large match, dipped in brimstone, and throw it into the cask; stop it close till the match is extinguished. Tun your wine; put the bung in lightly till you find it has done work- ing ; stop it close, and keep it in three months ; then bottle it off. You may make your birch wine with raisins in this manner:—To 1 hogs- head of birch sap take 4 cwt. of Malaga raisins; pick them clean from the stalks, and cut them small; then boil the birch liquor for one hour at least, skim it well, and let it stand till it is no warmer than milk; then put in the raisins, and let it stand closely covered, stirring it well four or five times every day. Boil all the stalks in a gallon or two of birch liquor, which, added to the other when almost cold, will give it an agreeable roughness. Let it stand ten days, then put it in a cool cellar, and when it has done hissing in the vessel, stop it up close. It must stand at least nine months before it is bottled. BIRDLIME is a viscid matter used for catching birds. There are different ways of preparing this substance, but it is generally made of holly bark, which is boiled ten or twelve hours, and when its green rind is separated it is covered up in a moist place to stand for a fortnight. It is afterwards reduced to a tough paste, and washed in a running stream till no impurities appear. Next, it is suffered to fer- ment for four or five days, during which it must be frequently skimmed. Afterwards it is mixed over the fire with a third part of nut oil or thin grease, and thus rendered fit for use. The German method of preparing birdlime is by putting about 2 lbs. of linseed oil into a pot, to simmer upon the fire for some time, after which it is taken off, and lighted with a match. In this state of inflammation it continues about two hours, when half the quantity will be con- sumed. By dipping, from time to time, a stick into the oil, and trjdng the matter between the fingers, its proper glutinous consistence may be easily ascertained; on which the pot is covered, and the flame extinguished. Water Biedlime may be prepared as fol- lows :—Take 1 lb. of strong and good ordinary birdlime, wash it thoroughly in spring water till it becomes perfectly soft; next beat it well that the water may be entirely separated; then dry it, put it into an earthen pipkin, and add to it as much capon or goose grease as will render it fluid. In this state of the preparation add 2 spoonsful of strong vinegar, 1 spoonful of oil, and a small quantity of Venice turpentine. Let the whole boil for a few minutes over a moderate fire, stirring it during that process. Then talie it off, but, previous to using it, warm it, and cover the twigs with it in every direction. This is the best birdlime for snipes, or such birds as frequent marshy places. The proper method of using birdlime is to cut down the principal branch of a tree, the twigs of which are straight, long, and smooth. The willow and birch are the best for this pur- pose. After the superfluous shoots have been lopped, and the twigs cleaned, they must be uniformly covered with the birdlime to within four inches of the bottom, but the main stem should not be touched by this matter. Great care is required in laying it on properly; for if too thick it will alarm the birds, and prevent their approach, and if too small a quantity be applied it will not hold them when they settle upon it. The branch thus prepared must be erected in a hedge, or among some growing bushes. If employed in summer it should be placed in a quickset hedge in groves, bushes, or white-thorn trees, near corn-fields, &c.; but in winter the best spots are near stacks of corn, sheds, or barns. The sportsman ought to stand as near the limed bush as possible, and imitate the notes of birds with a call. When a bird is attracted to the bush and entangled by the lime, the sportsman should suffer it to remain, as by the fluttering it makes to disengage itself others will be attracted to the bush, and thus several may be taken together. The hours proper for this sport are from sunrise till ten o'clock, and from one to sunset. Another me thod of attracting birds is by a stale; a bat makes a very good stale, but it must be fixed so as to be perceptible at a distance. An owl is still more eligible for this purpose, being followed by the small birds whenever it appears. If a live owl or bat cannot be obtained, tiie skin of one stuffed will likewise answer; nay, even the image of an owl carved in wood, and painted of the natural colour, will produce the desired effect. When the German composition is used, care should be taken to seize the bird when entangled, to prevent it from attempting to free itself by its beak, otherwise it will be destroyed by the deleterious effect of the oil. BIRDS : To Pot. Pick, draw, and wipe them clean ; season them with pepper, salt, and mace; put them into a pot with butter, after which send it to the oven, and when done, draw off the gravy; next put the birds into fresh pots, and cover them in the common way. BIRDS : To Truss (Small). When picked clean, cut off the heads and the pinions at the first joint; flatten the breastbone; turn the feet close to the legs, and put one within the other; take out the gizzard, and run a skewer through the middle of as many as are to be dressed; being small they must be fastened to the spit. BIRDS IN JP:LLY. Take 8 larks or other birds, with their heads and legs on; put into