[ 451 ] ECO EAU filter, and then add clarified syrup, 3 quarts, and orange-flower water, 6 ozs. EAU DE LA HONGRIE [Hungary water). Mix 2 lbs. of fresh rosemary flowers and 2 ozs. of lavender flowers with 3 pints of rectified spirit of wine and I pint of water. Distil over 3 pints. This is much used as a cosmetic ; is said to be very effectual in promoting the growth of hair on bald places ; certainly is a good cleanser of the hair ; and, sweetened with sugar, is taken as a cordial. EAU DE LAVANDE {Lavender water). Oil of lavender, 1 oz.; essence of bergamot, \\ drachm ; essence of musk, ^ oz.; rectified spirit, 2 quarts. Mix, and filter through blotting paper. It is very superior. EAU DE LUCE. Put into a bottle rectified spirit of wine, 2 ozs. ; oil of amber, 1 drachm ; salt of tartar and powder of amber, of each 2 drachms; oil of nutmegs, 20 drops. Shake these well together, and let them stand five hours, after which filter the mass and bottle the liqueur. When you would make eau de luce put some of this into the strongest spirits of hartshorn. EAU MEDICINALE DE HUSSON. This is a celebrated remedy for the gout. It is made by putting 2 ozs. of sliced colchicum root into 8 ozs. of sherry wine. After soaking for a week strain through blotting paper. The dose of this wine is from eight to forty drops. See Colchicum. EAU DE MILLEFLEURS {Water of many flowers). Essence of bergamot, \ oz.; lavender water, 1 oz.; essence of jasmine, I oz.; essence of musk, 1 drachm ; orange-flower water, 8 ozs. Mix, and filter through blotting paper. EAU D'OR {Gold water). Take the rinds of two fine lemons and ^ drachm of mace, and put to them 2 quarts of brandy; distil this in a bain-marie alembic, which will afford half the quantity of liqueur; dissolve 1| lb. of sugar in a quart of distilled water and \ lb. of orange-flower water; put this to the liqueur, colour it with a tincture of saffron, strain, and bottle it; take a book of gold leaf, some of which put in a basin, pour a small quantity of the liqueur on it, beat it up with a fork, and put a little parcel of it into each bottle. EAU SANS PAREILLE {Nonpareil water). Musk, 10 grains ; ambergris, 12 grains; oil of cloves, ^ oz.; oil of lavender, ^ oz.; essence of bergamot, J oz.; oil of sassafras, 10 drops ; oil of origanum, 10 drops; rectified spirit, 2 quarts. Mix, and let them remain ten days; then filter through blotting paper. Very fra- grant. EAU SUCREE is sugar put into boiling water. Sugar being very restorative it is a very proper drink for the sick, and easily obtained by the poor if they knew it was good for them, or how to make it, and is drunk constantly by the ladies in France; but it is particularly adapted to the sick from its power of causing sleep, although sugar is not regarded as so- porific. EBONY is a black wood produced by various species of the genus Diospyros. To stain light- coloured woods so as to resemble ebony they sliould be well soaked in a strong infusion of oak-galls, be allowed to dry, and then be washed over with a solution of green vitriol (sulphate of iron). fiCHAUDES. To a quart of flour put a pinch of salt, a little water, 4 ozs. of butter, and five beaten eggs ; mix the whole well together, and work it with the fists ; repeat this four times, then collect it, and put it for twelve hours in a cloth sprinkled with flour ; heat some water in a stewpan three parts full without letting it boil, and cut the paste into pieces, which put on the stewpan lid sprinkled with flour. When the water simmers put in the echaudes, and then stir them a little, but do not let the water boil. When they appear firm take them out and plunge them into cold water, where let them remain three hours; then take them out, drain them three hours in a folded napkin, and bake them on a tin in the oven. ECONOMY in domestic affairs is the manage- ment of a family with propriety and without waste. As attention to economy is at all times necessary the following calculations may, there- fore, be found useful. We premise, however, that in forming these estimates no line is drawn for the poor, and, as those with large fortunes are comparatively few, we have the less occasion to write for them, but the middling classes of society may find our hints useful. Should any calculation be thought too great or too small it should be remembered that our wants are different, some choosing one thing, some another; and never let the maxim in economy be forgotten, that as things grow dearer, if we cannot increase our income, and wish to be at ease, we must diminish our ex- penses. Bread. Each person eats upon an average about f lb. daily, so that nine quartern loaves for seven persons per week are ample. Butter. Three quarters of a pound for each person per week, allowing for melting, will be found ample. Sugar. The same as butter. Tea. Two ounces per head weekly are ample. Here we cannot avoid observing that, if half the expense of tea were laid out in milk, and milk and water drunk instead of tea, it would be more economical, and we believe equally more wholesome. ,