CAR [ 233 ] CAR CARAMEL. Break into a small copper or brass pan 1 lb. of refined sugar ; put in 1 gill of spring water, set it on the fire. When it boils skim it quite clean, and let it boil quickly till it comes to the degree called crack, which may be known by dipping a tea-spoon or skewer into the sugar, and letting it drop to the bottom of a pan of cold water, and if it remains hard it has attained that degree. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and let it remain one minute longer on the fire, then set the pan into another of cold water. Have ready moulds of any shape; rub them over with sweet oil; dip a spoon or fork into the sugar, and throw it over the mould in fine threads till it is quite covered. Make a small handle of caramel, or stick on two of the small gum-paste rings by way of ornament, and place it over small pastry of any description. CARAMEL BISCUIT-BASKETS. These are delicate and beautiful. Stick drop biscuits with caramel in any form of basket; they are beautiful in oval and round basins contracted at the top, or with a lying over edge, without any ornament, filled with caramelled fruit. These are elegant for undressed, stylish family dinners. CARAMEL BURNT SUGAR. This is made with a piece of sugar of the size of a nut, browned in the bottom of a saucepan ; then pour upon it a glass of broth, little by little, while you move it about. Caramel may be used with the feather of a quill to colour meats, such as the upper part of fricandeaux, and to impart colour to sauces. Caramel made with water in- stead of broth may be used to colour compotes and other entremets. _ CARAMEL CONSERVE. Clarify the quan- tity of sugar you may require, and boil it to caramel. Have ready some cases of double paper; pour in your sugar to the thickness of half an inch, and trace on its surface the forms you wish it to have. When cold break it ac- cording to those marks. This conserve may be coloured and flavoured according to the fancy. CARAMEL COVER (for Sweetmeats). Dissolve 8 ozs. of double-refined sugar in 3 or 4 spoonsful of water, and 3 or 4 drops of lemon- juice ; then put it into a copper untinned skillet. When it boils to be thick dip the handle of a spoon into it, and put that into a pint basin of water; squeeze the sugar from the spoon into it, and so on till you have all the sugar. Take a bit out of the water, and if it snaps and is brittle when it is cold it is done enough, but only let it be three parts cold; then pour the water from the sugar, and, having a copper mould oiled well, run the sugar on it in the manner of a maze, and when cold you may put it on the dish it is to cover. If on trial the sugar is not brittle, pour off the water, and re- turn it again to the skillet, and bojl it again. It should look thick, like treacle, but of a bright, light, gold colour. It makes a most elegant cover. CARAMEL CROQUANT. Take a copper croquant top, and butter it all over; then have some syrup boiling in a stewpan; let it boil till it comes to caramel, take the pan off, dip a three- pronged fork into the syrup or from the spout of the pan, and you will see strings hang on the fork. Move the fork backwards and forwards over the croquant until you quite cover it thick. Have your little dish of sweetmeats under, take this croquant off the mould, and when cold put it over the sweetmeats, and handle it very lightly. CARAMEL FRUIT. Every kind of pre- served or fresh fruits may be caramelled, as well as all kinds of nuts, gum paste, figures, &c. Before the caramel is prepared have the fruit or what is to be caramelled quite ready, which saves time as well as waste. For this purpose if the fruit that is to be done is preserved, the sugar must be washed off with warm water, and the fruit dried in the sun or stove ; it must be free from blemish and whole. Stick to each a small twig, and arrange them. If dipped into white of egg, dried, and then caramelled, they will keep longer. Butter a marble slab slightly, and when the caramel has attained its point give it a few more boils, and allow the heat to fall a little ; then let two quickly proceed to dip in the fruit, and arrange it on the marble slab. If a great deal is to be done a third may remove the fruit to wire grills, and put them in a stove, the mouth of the oven, or in the sun. Fresh fruit must be picked large and fine, and arranged with twigs, and laid some time in the sun or in a hot room, where the surface- ipoisture may be dried off. Proceed, then, as above. Put bunches of small fruit, barberries, or grapes, which may be done with the grape so^ distant as to be spread or be laid lightly over pne another; or if in larger bunches they must be hung, which may be easily done by tying the bunch, and hanging them over a dish to receive the droppings of the sugar. CARAT. This was in ancient times a weight the 24th part of 1 lb., French ; but at presenij is only used as a mode of expressing the amount of gold contained in any article composed of that metal. If that article is said to be twenty- four carats fine, it ought to be all gold ; if twelve carats fine, it ought to be of an alloy containing half its weight of gold, and so on. CARAWAY BRANDY. Steep 1 oz. of cara- way seeds and 6 ozs. of loaf sugar in 1 quart of brandy. Let it stand nine days and draw it off. CARAWAY CAKES. To 1 lb. of flour add 3 lb. of fresh butter, 8 spoonsful of good yeast, 4 spoonsful of rose water, the yolks of 3 eggs, as many caraways as you please, 4 ozs. of sugar.