[ 374 ] CRE CEE CREAM, RHENISH. Put over the fire a pint of Rhenish wine, a stick of cinnamon, and ^Ib. of sugar. While this is boiling take seven yolks and whites of eggs; beat them well together with a whisk and a little wine ; pour it gradually into the boiling wine; strike it fast with the whisk till it comes to such a thickness that you may lift it on the point of a knife, but be sure not to let it curdle; add to it the juice of a lemon and orange-flower water; pour it into your dish; garnish it with citron, sugar, and biscuit, and serve. CREAM, RHUBARB. Peel and Tvash a quantity of rhubarb; put it into a pan, with a little water, lemon-peel, a bit of cinnamon, and as much moist sugar as will sweeten it; set it on a moderate fire, and reduce it to a marmalade; pass it through a hair sieve, and when cold mix ■with it a pint of cream or two eggs beaten up with a pint of milk. CREAM, SAGE. Take two quarts of cream, and boil it well; then put in half a pint of the juice of red sage, a pint of white wine, a quarter of a pint of rose water, and 1 lb. of sugar. CREAM SAUCE. Boil half a pint of cream, thicken it a very little, and put in a lump of butter; sweeten it to your taste, and after it gets cold add a glass of white wine. This is good to eat with boiled rice, plain pudding, or apple dumplings. CREAM SHERBET. Put the yolks of six eggs and a dessert-spoonful of orange-flower water, or crisped orange flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream, and boil it up once in a covered saucepan; then pass it through a sieve; add to it I lb. of powder sugar, and as soon as it is perfectly dissolved pour the whole into a sarbotiere, which place in an ice pail, and pro- ceed to cool as directed for Sherbet. CREAM SNOW. Mix a quart of cream with the whites of six eggs; sweeten it with sugar and rose water, and strain it; then beat up the cream with a bundle of reeds tied together or with a whisk, and as the snow rises take it up with a spoon in the cullender, that the liquid part may run out. When you have taken off as much of the snow as you please boil the rest of the cr.eam with a stick of cinnamon, some cloves, and a, little bruised ginger; boil it till it is thick, strain it, and when it is cold put it into a dish, and lay your snow upon it. CREAM, SPANISH. Take 3 spoonsful of rice flour sifted very finely, the yolks of 3 eggs, 3 spoonsful of fresh water, and 3 spoonsful of orange-flower water; mix them well together; then put to it 1 pint of cream, set it on a good fire, keep it stirring till it is of a proper thickness, and then pour it into cups. CREAM SWEETMEAT. Take some good cream, and slice some preserved peaches, apricots, or plums into it; sweeten the cream with fine sugar, or with the syrup the fruit was preserved in; mix all well together, and put it into your basin. CREAM, SYRUP OF. This maybe preserved the same as cream [see Cbeam, to Keep), in the proportion of IJlb. of sugar to a pint of perfectly fresh cream ; keep it in a cool place for two or three hours ; then put it into one or two ounce phials, and cork it closely. It will keep good thus for several weeks, and will be found very useful in voyages. CREAM, TAFFETY. Beat the whites of eight eggs with rose water to a froth; put it into a quart of thick cream, skimming it as it rises; boil it, and keep it continually stirring; then, having beaten up the yolks of eight eggs, take your cream off the fire, slip in the eggs, and stir them in. Sweeten with sugar. CREAM TART. Put into a tea-ciip a large table-spoonful of arrowroot flour; pour on it a very little cold milk, and mix it very smooth with a spoon, seeing that it is entirely free from lumps. Boil in a saucepan a quart of cream or rich unskimmed milk, with the yellow rind of a large lemon or orange pared thin, or cut into slips; or use for flavouring a handful of bitter almonds or peach kernels blanched and broken up, or, what is still better, a vanilla bean. The milk must boil slowly, keeping it closely covered, till it is highly flavoured; then strain out the flavouring, and set away the milk to cool. Beat the yolks of eight eggs till veiy thick and smooth, and stir them gradually into the milk alternately with four heaped table-spoonsful of powdered loaf sugar ; add some grated nutmeg; put tlie whole into a saucepan, place it on hot coals, or on the stove, and continue to stir it till it begins to boil; then remove it immediately, lest it should curdle, and keep stirring it till it begins to cool; afterwards set it in a cold place. Sift into a pan Hlb. of flour ; mix in i lb. of white sugar ; cut up in it Jib. of fresh butter, and rub it well into the flour and sugar. Beat S eggs very light, and with them wet the flour, &c., to a dough, adding a very small level tea-spoonful of soda dissolved in a little cold water; mix the paste well till it becomes a lump of dough ; then beat it on all sides with the rolling-pin, transfer it to the pasteboard, and roll it out thin ; divide it equally into square pieces; put thickly on each piece a por- tion of cream or custard mixture, and fold over it the four corners of the paste so as they approach each other in the centre; dredge each tart with powdered loaf sugar, set them into the oven, and let them bake of a hght brown. They are best when fresh, but not