APP APP r 28 ] point them out, so as to render them in- telligible :— Marked ozs. IC 14 1 oz. 12 10 1 oz. 8 7 6 5 i oz. 4 3 2 1 I Lint. Scales and weights. Small glass mortar and pestle. Sponge, &c. The following tables show the weights and measures used by apothecaries, and the signs by which they are denoted; which are those, of course, which should also regulate the practice of every one who undertakes to prescribe for the sick. WEIGHTS. The pound . , . f5\ „ /Twelve ounces, ounce . . • .5 Eight drachms, drachm . . 3 }• -g ■ Three scruples, scruple . . . 9 j o Twenty grains, grain . . . grj ^ The grain weights are marked, exclusive of the stamp upon them, with a particular impression for each grain. The scruple and drachm are marked with the above corresponding impressions. MEASOEE OP FLUIDS. Eight pints. Sixteen fluid drachms. Eight fluid drachms. Sixty minims. The gallon . . cong.\ ^ pint . . octavus I .2 fluid ounce . f 1 i- -2 fluid drachm . f 3 § minim or drop j ^ APPAREL. Let it be always borne in mind that to buy good clothing is the cheapest what- ever the price may be; that to be too warmly clad is far safer than to be too thinly clad; that the worst of all tastes is to be gaily or extravagantly clothed; and that no well-regulated mind will endure a dirty or an untidy dress. In our following remarks we shall confine ourselves chiefly to commenting upon apparel generally, and then to gentlemens' more par- ticularly, leaving what we have to say relative to ladies' clothing to each article of dress as it occurs in its alphabetical order. The clothing ought to be suited to the climate. Custom has, no doubt, a very great influence in this article; but no custom can ever change the nature of things so far as to render the same clothing fit for an inhabitant of Nova Zembla and the island of Jamaica. It is not, indeed, necessary to observe an exact proportion between the quantity of clothes we wear, and the degree of latitude which we inhabit; but at the same time proper attention ought to be paid to it, as well as to the openness of the country, the frequency and violence of storms, &c. In youth, while the blood is hot and the perspiration free, it is less necessary to cover the body with a great quantity of clothes; but in the decline of life, when the skin becomes rigid and the humours more cool, the clothing should be increased. Many diseases in the latter period of life proceed from a defect of perspiration : these may, in some measure, be prevented by a suitable addition to the clothing, or by wearing such as are better calculated for promoting the discharge from the skin, as clothes made of cotton, flannel, &c. The clothing ought likewise to be suited to the season of the year. Clothing may be warm enough for summer which is by no means sufficient for winter. The greatest caution, however, is necessary in making these changes. We ought neither to put off our winter clothes too soon, nor to wear our summer ones too long. In this countiy the winter often sets in very early with great rigour, and we have frequently cold weather even after the commencement of the summer months. It would likewise be prudent not to make the change all at once, but to do it gradually; and, indeed, the changes of apparel in this climate ought to be very incon- siderable, especially among those who have passed the meridian of life. That " Colds kill more than plagues " is an old observation; and, with regard to this country, it holds strictly true. Every person of discern- ment, however, will perceive that most of the colds which prove so destructive to the inhabit- ants of Britain are owing to their imprudence in changing clothes. A few warm days in March or April induce them to throw off' their winter garments, without considering that our most penetrating colds generally happen in the spring. Clothes often become hurtful to the ivearer by their being made subservient to the purposes oj pride or vanity. Mankind in all ages seem to have considered clothes in this view; accordingly their fashion and figure have been continually varying, with very little regard either to health, the climate, or conveniency : a hooped petticoat, for example, may be very necessary in hot southern climates, but surely nothing can be more ridiculous in the cold regions of the north. Even the human shape is often attempted to be mended by dress, and those who know no better believe that mankind would be monsters without its assistance. All attempts of this nature are highly pernicious. The most de- structive of them in this country is that of squeezing the stomach and bowels into as narrow a compass as possible, to procure, what is falsely called, a fine shape. This madness seems to have pervaded the miuds of mothers in every