[ 162 ] BRE BRE suppose. It should be cut from a loaf that has been baked in a tin, and it should never be made till the moment before it is wanted. In toasting the slices, care must be taken to move them constantly backwards and forwards before the fire, which process will prevent toast burning, and will make it a nice uniform brown colour. Hung beef is a very favourite dish with ladies; it is sent to table finely grated and ornamented with parsley. It is usually bought quite ready for boiling. It should be put on in boiling water, and kept boiling all the time. A piece weighing 6 lbs. will take an hour and a lialf to boil. Do not grate it till it is quite cold. Sausages make a very good hot breakfast-dish. We always prefer making them at home, though epicures assure us that home-made sausages are not worth eating. The following method of preparing them is very good :—Chop very fine Ijlb. of lean pork and fib. of beef suet 3 table-spoonsful of grated bread, the yolks of 2 eggs; beat the whole well together in a mortar, and season very highly with sage, black pepper, and salt. When thoroughly mixed put it into a jar and exclude the air as much as possible. When required for breakfast, the mass must be formed into sausage shapes, or into round balls. Flour them over, and fry iu lard, or very fresh drip])ing. Great attention must be paid to the freshness of all the in- gredients, and they must also be chopped as fine as possible. Sheep's kidneys also are often approved of, and, as they are easily procured, it is a good dish to order. They should be cut in two and seasoned very highly with pepper and salt. They will take about eight minutes to dress over a sharp fire on a gridiron. When done place them on a hot dish, and put a piece of butter in the centre of each kidney. If preferred, a piece of toast can be placed under them. Rashers of bacon, cut very thin, and rolled up neatly, can, with the broiled legs of fowls, turkeys, or game, vary, in a pleasing manner, the hot dishes you may require. Sheep's trotters. As we wish, as often as possible, to give some economical dish, we must leave the spiced beef and the savoury pie, and finish with a receipt for dressing sheep's trotters. Procure as many as you can, at least a dozen, and take out the long bone from each. Have ready, in a -stewpan, \ lb. of suet, some onions and sliced carrots, 2 table-spoonsful of flour, some pepper, salt, a little spice, and 2|- quarts of water. Put in the feet; stir tlie mixture round till it boils, and then simmer till the feet are quite tender; then pour it all into a pie dish, cover it with a layer of mashed pota- toes, and brown it in the oven. This will be found a very nourishing and a very economical dish, well worthy the attention of those who cannot afford a fresh joint daily. BREAKFAST POWDER. This is a cheap substitute for coffee, and is formed by roasting slices of the root of chicory, grains of rye, &c. The best we ever partook of was formed of equal parts of chicory-root and beech-nuts. See Coffee. BREAK-YOUR-SPEGTACLES. Thisquaint name was applied to the common corn-tlower, or blue-bottle (C'e/(toii)r« cyanus), for the water dis- tilled from its flowers was esteemed an applica- tion so efficacious for weak eyes that the plant received this popular title. Tlie juice expressed from the flowers is certainly cooling and astrin- gent, and affords a beautiful blue colour said to be much used by miniature painters. BREAM : To Dkess. After young bream is scalded and drawn, notch the side of it; dip in melted butter. Make a brown sauce with anchovies, capers, cives, and parsley, tossed up in a saucepan with a little butter; then \i\it in a little fish-broth, and tliicken it with a cullis that is to be poured on the fish, but do not put the anchovies in till you are going to serve. When it is broiled enough serve it up with the aforesaid sauce. It may also be served with a white sauce. BREAM : To Stew. Scald and well wash the bream, preserve the blood to stew it in; put to it 2 glasses or more of claret, a little ginger, the pulp of ^ lb. of prunes boiled and strained into the stew; salt, vinegar, 2 anchovies, some roots of horseradish stamped and strained, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Let there be no more liquor than will just cover the fish and other ingredients. When it is stewed enough make a sauce with butter and a little of the bream liquor; beat them up together; then dish your fish, and pour the sauce upon it. Garnish with lemon and barberries, and serve it up. BREAST, DISEASES OF. Breast Pang {Angina pectoris). The most judicious notes we have met with upon this disease are the following by Dr. IMacaulay, in his " Dictionary of Medicine :"—This is an acute pain at the lower end of the breast-bone, inclining towards the leftside, accompanied with great uneasiness. The leading symptoms of the disease are violent palpitations of the heart, difficulty of breathing, and a sensation as of suffocation. It is found to attack chiefly those who are of the make which has been supposed most liable to apoplexy, viz., those with large heads and short necks, and who lead a sedentary and inactive life. In tbe first stage of the disorder the pain is felt chiefly after some exertion, as going up stairs, or up a hill, or walking quickly, particularly when the stomach is full ; butm nioie advanced stages very slight exertions axe sufficient to