CAR [ 211 ] CAR ,'iot very much, and a good active housemaid will not regard it. It sweeps off the dust and litter from the surface without injuring the fabric, and makes the carpet last immeasurably longer. The brush must not be used for any other purpose, and should not be quite so soft as hand-brooms usually are. A clean dust-pan should also belong to this branch of the service ; whatever is employed that is not strictly clean will soil the carpet in one way, while intended to clean it in another. Crumb-cloths are fre- quently laid under breakfast and dinner-tables, but they are cold to the feet, and either look rumpled and untidy, or are liable to tear the carpet, or catch the foot if pinned down. It is a better plan to have the crumbs removed after each meal with the carpet hand-broom and dust- pan ; and if any little spot of grease appears, it should be immediately removed. Carpets are such expensive articles of furni- ture, and the appearance of a room is so much destroyed if it is covered by one that is dirty or tattered, that pains should be taken to preserve them in a neat state as long as possible. We sometimes see them covered entirely with linen, but it has such a cold, comfortless look, so like a state apartment, that there is no possibility of feeling at ease in the room. Baize or drugget has a much warmer, more hospitable air, and answers the same purpose. On entering a room covered over with linen a shivering formality seizes us, and the comfort and ease of an English home seems, for the time, to vanish. Dirty carpets must be taken up, well beaten, and laid down again. Next every spot of grease must be removed, and this is effected by the following process :—Scrape and pound together, in equal proportions, magnesia in the lump, and fullers' earth. Having mixed these substances well together pour on them a sufficient quantity of boiling water to make them into a paste. Lay this paste as hot as possible upon the grease spots upon the carpet, and let it dry. Next day, when the composition is quite dry, brush it off, and the grease spots will have disappeared. The liquid for washing the carpet must now be prepared in the following manner:—In each 2 gallons of boiling water dissolve 1 oz. of yellow soap and 1 drachm of soda. As soon as it is cool enough for the hand to be immersed in it without iuconvenience or pain, a pail of it must be placed upon the carpet near the spot where the washing is to begin. Near it must stand a second pail filled with clean, hot water. The operator now dips a clean flannel into the detergent liquid, soaks it well, and begins to wash the carpet. The instant the dirt is re- moved, and before the carpet can dry, it must be washed over again with abundance of clean, hot water, for which purpose another clean flan- nel must be used. Thus each portion as it is washed with the detergent liquid must be finislied with the clean water, which should remove every drop of the compound liquor; the flannel rinsed and must be wrung dry, and the carpet wiped with it as dry as possible. In this manner the whole surface of the carpet must be gradually washed and rinsed, not more than two or three square feet of the surface being done at a time. Let the carpets so washed have plenty of time to dry, setting the windows open when the air is dry and the weather fine. When perfectly dry the carpets should be well wiped over with a mixture of ox-gall and water made pretty strong. For this purpose a clean flannel must be provided, and care must be taken that it is not made too wet by the ox-gall liquid. This process restores the colours, giving them their original brightness. Hearth rugs and stair- carpeting may be treated in the same manner, with the only difference that these may be spread and washed upon a table. CARRARA WATER is merely lime-water strongly impregnated with carbonic acid, in the same manner as soda-water. It is taken with much benefit by some persons who are troubled with either acidity of the stomach, or certain forms of calculous disease. It is called Carrara water, because the springs about that town in Italy, so famous for its statuary marble, contain much carbonate of lime, or chalk. CARROT CAKE. Take a dozen large and very red carrots ; scrape and boil them in water with a little salt. When done drain them, take out the hearts, and rub the rest through a bolt- ing-cloth ; put them in a stewpan and dry them over the fire. Make a creme pdtissiere with about ^ pint of milk, and when done mix it with the carrots. Add a pinch of minced orange- flower pralinee, | lb. of powder sugar, 4 whole eggs; put in one at a time the yolks of 6 more and i lb. of melted butter. Mix all these in- gredients well together ; whip up 6 whites to a froth, and stir them in by degrees. Butter a mould and put some crumb of bread in it. In a minute or two turn out all the bread, and three quarters of an hour before the cake is wanted pour this preparation into the mould and balce it. Serve it hot. CARROT FRITTERS. Beat two or three boiled carrots to a pulp with a spoon; add to \ them 6 eggs and a handful of flour; moisten them with either cream, milk, or white wine, and sweeten them. Beat all well together, and fry in boiling lard. When of a good colour take them off, and squeeze on them the juice of a Seville orange, and strew over fine sugar. CARROT GARNITURE. Cut fine carrots into pieces about an inch in length, in the form B