ARO [ 41 ] ARO factured into ropes, and pieces of the wood are employed to procure fire by friction. AROMATICS. For the following we are indebted to the excellent " Encyclopaedia," pub- lished by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. Aromatics are obtained from plants which exercise a peculiar influence over the digestive powers, and possess more or less fra- grance. This fragrance usually arises from an essential or volatile oil. Indeed, volatile oil exists in all aromatic plants; but this aromatic oil does not reside in the same part in every kind of plant. In umbelliferous plants we find it mostly in the fruits; yet in angelica, celery, and parsley, it is diffused through the whole structure. Labiate plants, such as mint, balm, rosemary, and lavender, have it in the leaves and stem; cinnamon in the bark; all turpentine plants in their young branches. The Iris Flo- rentina (orris) and others have it chiefly in the root; the scitamineae sometimes in the root, as ginger, and sometimes in the seeds, as carda- moms. The rose and camomile have it in the petals, yet it is not equal in all the petals of the camomile, being greatest in the yellow florets of the disc. Hence, doubling the flowers of the camomile, by which the yellow florets of the disc are diminished, and the white florets of the ray increased, lessens the virtues of the flowers. The power of medicines is frequently judged of by their sensible qualities, that is, by the impression which they make on the organs of smell and taste , aromatics affect both of these senses in a very perceptible and sometimes extraordinary manner. Scarcely any one is in- sensible to the odour of particular flowers, and some are affected by them to an extraordinary degree. The approach to Ceylon can be deter- mined by the fragrance of the air at a distance of many miles; the Magnolia glauca (beaver- tree, or swamp magnolia) diffuses an odour by ■which it can be recognised at the distance of three miles, among the swampy -districts, and, consequently, moist atmosphere, in which it grows. This powerfully affects many persons while travelling or hunting ; and the Magnolia tripetala causes sickness, headache, and an ag- gravation of fevers or rheumatism, among those near it who are labouring under these complaints. The odour of the jonquils and other fragrant plants raised in Holland is so great when brought into a room or close apartment as to be quite overpowering. In such countries or places as have a very moist atmosphere, the odour of plants is most readily diffused as well as most potent; of this we may satisfy ourselves by calling to mind the greater fragrance of flowers early in the morning, in the evening, or after a shower. This accounts for the violent action of the plants in the countries just mentioned; hut even many plants of Britain affect some indi- viduals, endowed with a peculiar and excessive sensibility, to an extreme degree. The sweet- scented violet has such an effect on some per- sons as to occasion headache, convulsions, and apoplexy. Aromatics are seldom applied to the organ of smell for the purpose of influencing the system in a remedial manner, except in the form of aromatic vinegar, in threatened or actual fainting. We shall therefore proceed to consider their action upon the palate and stomach. As all aromatics contain volatile oil their action is generally referred to this principle ; but there cannot be a doubt that the more fixed principles which they contain contribute greatly to that effect. Volatile oils, when separated, act chiefly on the nervous system ; but aromatics influence more particularly the digestive organs, the func- tion of assimilation, and the generation of animal heat. They are themselves digested ; but previous to this process commencing, or going any length, they produce, by direct contact with the internal surfaces, a peculiar effect, which we perceive beginning at the lips and palate, and accompanying them in their progress to the stomach. They scarcely excite any general action of the system ; but expend their power chiefly upon the stomach, and in a less degree upon the intestinal canal, increasing the vital force of the former, and quickening the mus- cular action of the latter. They also com- municate to the stomach a greater power of resistance to unpleasant sensations, as under their influence many articles can be borne by it which would otherwise be rejected, and this hap- pens equally with regard to food and medicines. The mixture of aromatics renders them more agreeable than when given alone, and this is exemplified both in their medical and culinary employment, as no good cook will use only one spice if she can procure more. The aromatic powder and aromatic confection are compounded on this principle for medical use, and Dr. Kitchener's zest for culinary purposes. The necessity for the employment of aromatics is greater in warm climates and weather than in cold, and we find the plants which furnish them grow in the greatest abundance in hot countries. The pepper tribe (Piperacea), for example, is confined to the hottest parts of the world, such as tropical America and the Indian Archipelago. Forty species of pepper are met with in the island of Java alone. Throughout the East Indies the natives restore the powers of the stomach by chewing betel, which con- sists of slices of the areca nut, sprinkled with fresh lime, wrapped up along with some other aromatic in a leaf of the Fijper betel. The