COL C 342 ] COL Pare off the skin of a breast of mutton, and with a sharp knife nicely take out half the bones, but be careful you do not cut through the meat. Pick all the fat and meat off the bones; then grate some nutmeg all over the inside of the mutton, a very little beaten mace, a little pepper and salt, a few sweet herbs shred small, a few crumbs of bread, and the bits of fat picked off the bones ; roll it up tightly; stick a skewer in to hold it together, but do it in such a manner that the collar may stand upright in the dish; tie a packthread across it to hold it together; spit it; then roll the caul of a breast of veal all round it, and roast it. When it has been about half an hour at the fire take off the caul, dredge it with flour, baste it well with fresh butter, and let it be of a fine brown. It will require, on the whole, an hour and a quarter roasting. For sauce take some gravy beef, and cut and hack it well; then flour it, and fry it a little brown. Pour into your stewpan some boiling water, stir it well together, and then fill your pan half full of water ; put in an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little crust of bread toasted, two or three blades of mace, four cloves, some whole pepper, and the bones of the mutton ; cover it closely, and let it stew till it is quite rich and thick; then strain it. Boil it up with some trufBes and morels, a few mushrooms, a spoonful of catsup, and if you have them two or three bottoms of artichokes; put just enough salt to season the gravy ; take the packthread off the mutton, and set it upright in the dish ; cut the sweetbread into four pieces, boil it of a fine brown, and have ready a few forcemeat balls fried. Lay these round the dish, and pour in the sauce. Garnish with sliced lemon. COLLARED BREAST OF VEAL. Bone your veal and beat it a little; rub it over with the yolk of an egg, and strew on it a little beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, a large handful of pai'sley chopped small, with a few spiigs of sweet marjoram, a little lemon- peel shred finely, and an anchovy chopped small and mixed with a few crumbs of bread. Roll it up very tightly, bind it hard with a fillet, and wrap it in a clean cloth. Boil it two hours and a half in soft water, and when it is done enough hang it up by one end, and make a pickle for it, consisting of a pint of salt and water, and half a ph)t of vinegar. Before you send it to table cut off a slice at each of the ends. Garnish with pickles and parsley. COLLARED CALF'S HEAD. Take a calf's head with the skin on, scald off the hair, take out all the bones carefully from the neck, and lay it some time in warm milk to make it look white. Boil the tongue, peel it, cut that and the palate into thin slices, and put them and the eyes into the middle of the head. Take some pepper, salt, cloves, and mace, and beat them finely; then add to them some grated nutmeg, scalded parsley, thyme, savory, and sweet marjoram cut very small. Beat up the yolks of three or four eggs, spread them over the head, and then strew over the seasoning. Roll it up very tightly, tie it round with tape, and boil it gently for three hours in as much water as will cover it. When you take it out season the pickle with salt, pepper, and spice, and add to it a pint of white wine vinegar. When it is cold put in the collar, and cut it in handsome slices when you send it to table. COLLARED EELS. Wlien you have thoroughly cleaned your eel cut off the head, tail, and fins, and take out the bones. Lay it flat on the back, and then grate over it a small nut- meg, with two or three blades of mace beaten finely, and a little pepper and salt; then strew on these a handful of parsley shred finely, with a few sage leaves chopped small. Roll it up tightly in a cloth, and bind it firmly. If it is of a middling size boil it in salt and water three quartei's of an hour, and hang it up all night to drain. Add to the pickle a pint of vinegar, a few peppercorns, and a sprig of sweet mar- joram. Boil it ten minutes, and let it stand till the next day; then take off the cloth, and put your eels into the pickle. When you send them to table lay them either whole in the plate or cut them in slices. Garnish with green parsley. Lampreys may be done in the same manner. COLLARED MACKEREL. Gut your mackerels, and slit them down the belly ; cut off their heads, take out the bones, and be careful not to cut them in holes; then lay them flat on their backs, season them with mace, nut- meg, pepper, salt, and a handful of parsley shred finely ; strew it over them, roll them tightly, and tie them well separately in cloths; boil them gently twenty minutes in the vinegar, salt, and water; then take them out, put them into a pot, and pour the liquor on them, or the cloth will stick to the fish; take the cloth off the fish the next day, put a little more vinegar to the pickle, and keep them for use. When you send them to table garnish with fennel and parsley, and put some of the liquor under them. COLLARED PIG. Bone your pig, and then rub it all over with pepper and salt beaten finely, a few sage leaves, and sweet herbs chopped small; roll it up tightly, and bind it with a fillet. Fill your boiler with soft water; put in a bunch of sweet herbs, a few peppercorns, a blade or two of mace, eight or ten cloves, a hand- ful of salt, and a pint of vinegar. When it boils put in your pig, and let it boil till it is tender; then take it up, and when it is almost cold