BAG BAG [ 53 ] and put it in a dish into hot water. Lastly, take it out, and put it in a cool place till ready to serve. BACCHIC SAUCE. Put 1 spoonful of fine oil into a saucepan, with ^ pint of good stock, and 1 pint of white wine; boil them together till re- duced to nearly half; then put in some shallots, garden cress, tarragon, chervil, parsley, leeks, &c., all shred very fine ; season with whole pepper and salt. Boil the whole together once ; serve with a little cuUis. This sauce is good with any meat. BACHEK'S PILLS. These are tonic, and are compounded of extract of black hellebore, 1 oz.; myrrh, 1 oz.; and powdered carduus benedictus (blessed thistle), 3 ozs. Make into pills of 1 grain each and take from two to six, accordingly as the stomach will bear them, three times a day. It is a powerful medicine, and the hellebore taken in excess is poisonous. BACK BOARDS, says Dr. Crell, were em- ployed for a similar purpose to braces and stays; namely, to keep the body both upright and immoveable, with the head elevated and the shoulders pulled unnaturally backwards. It was also absurdly imagined that they enlarged the chest, and thereby prevented the attacks of consumption; but, from what we have said of the effects of braces {see Braces) in producing chicken-breast and flatness of the ribs, it must be evident that the back board must have a still more injurious effect of the same kind, although we leave entirely out of consideration the torture it always inflicts on the poor child that is forced to wear it. There cannot be a doubt but that back boards are powerful instru- ments, also, for promoting distortions and twists of the spine, by weakening the strength of the muscles, by which the upright position of the body is chiefly supported.—[Family Oracle.) BACK, PAIN IN, may arise from various causes. If in the small of the back, it is usually occasioned by some disorder of the kidneys. In whatever part of the back the pain may be, if occasioned by cold or accidental twist of the spine, the best remedy will be found to be a bandage of thin flannel, half a yard wide and two or three yards in length, folded closely round the small of the back, and the bandage secured and completed by sewing the edge of the outside end of the flannel to the previous folds. This should be worn night and day, and when no longer required should be left off by degrees; first diminishing the quantity of flannel, and then only wearing it during the day. For those persons who are subject to constitutional weakness in the spine, or whose occupation requires them to raise or carry articles of con- siderable weight, a constant belt will be found of tlie greatest service. It should be about a foot wide, and secured by two or three small straps and buckles, worn next the skin during the day and laid aside at night, and composed of ordinary leather on the outside, with fine soft leather and slight padding for the inside. BACON. The following trustworthy esti- mate of the bacon cured in various parts of the British Islands was written by a correspondent of the " Magazine of Domestic Economy." The cheaper and more common bacon sold in London, and sometimes termed Irish bacon, is nauseous as well as unwholesome. It is not, however, Irish bacon, though made from Irish hogs. In Ireland the bacon is generally of excellent quality and well cured ; but the meat here alluded to is derived from the following source :— At Liverpool, but more especially at Bristol, there is an immense importation, from Ireland, of hogs hastily and improperly fattened for these markets. At the latter city vast droves of swine may daily be seen coming from the Hotwells, crossing the College Green, and pro- ceeding to the outskirts of the other end of the city, whence they are forwarded to their ultimate destination. These poor animals have just been landed from the Irish steam-packets, and ere they have well recovered from the effects of their sea-sickness, are driven hastily across the country, which throws them into a fever. In this state of disease, which a few days would overcome, whilst a few weeks' feeding on beans and potatoes would render them fine, firm, and wholesome, they are slaughtered and converted into bacon and hams, with an excess of salt. Of course this diseased flesh is soft, flabby, and disgusting. What is more, it is exceedingly un- wholesome, for even the hyper-salting cannot eradicate the " plague spot" with which this meat is stamped. Some of the bacon thus obtained bears the name of Lancashire bacon, some that of Somersetshire bacon, according to the caprice of the buttermen and cheesemongers who retail it. In Buckinghamshire, where the flesh of the swine is almost the only animal food used by the agricultural classes, and where the best bacon in England is made—in Gloucestershire also, especially in the royal Forest of Dean, where swine's flesh is the chief food, and where the forester considers himself independent of the world when he has a couple of fat hogs in his sty and a side of bacon hanging against the wall on either side of his hearth ; the swine feed heartily on beech-mast, acorns, and the various productions of the woodlands which the right of common procures for them. This imparts great sweetness and solidity to their flesh, the fattening of which is completed by peas or beans, and some potatoesK