BLE C 324 ] BLA dish, and put your almonds upon it; tTien gather up the corners of your napkin, and wring it very tight, to press out all the milk from the al- monds ; then put into this milk 12 ozs. of loaf sugar, hrokeia into small pieces. When the sugar is dissolved, pass the whole through a napkin, and then add to it 1 oz. of clarified isin- glass rather warmer than lukewarm, and when the whole is well incorporated together, pour it into your mould, which should be previously put into 10 lbs. of pounded ice. When your blanc- mange is ready to serve, which will be two hours after it has been put into the mould, you must take it out of the mould according to the rule prescribed in Blanc-mange (3). BLANC-MANGE FKITTERS. Put Jib. of ground rice into a stewpan; mix with it 2 eggs, 1 pint of milk, and 2 ozs. of sugar; let the whole boil two hours, stirring it frequently. When well thickened, take it off, and add a little grated lemon-peel, some dried orange flowers, shred, and a little salt. The whole being well mixed, spread it over a floured dish ; shake flour over it, and when cold, cut it into little bits, and make into balls, with your hands floured; fry on lard, and when dark-coloured, sugar and serve. BLANC-MANGE, RIBBON. Put into a mould some white blanc-mange about 2 inches deep, and when cold, put alternately clarified calves' feet jelly or Dutch blanc-mange. BLANC-MANGE, RICE. Put Itea-cupful of whole rice into the least water possible till the rice almost bursts; then add -J- pint of good milk or thin cream, and boil it till it is quite a mash, stirring it the whole time it is on the fire that it may not burn ; dip the mould in cold water, and do not dry it; put in the rice, and let it stand until quite cold, when it will come easil}' out of the mould. This dish is much approved of; it is eaten with cream or custard and pre- served fruits : raspberries are best. It should be made the day before it is wanted that it may get firm. BLANC-MANGE, WELSH. See Budram. BLANKETS. The excellence of these de- pends upon their weight, closeness of fabric, and quantity of wool they contain, for on these qualities depend their durability and warmth. They are made of various sizes, but the largest are 15 quarters long and 14 quarters wide. The long-stapled foreign wool is usually employed for making the best blankets, as it not only enables all the above-named good qualities to be secured, but a long, handsome pile also. Dewsbury, Chichester, and Witney have been or are celebrated for the manufacture of blankets, and the name of Witney blankets is still applied to those of excellence. To keep spare blankets constantly well aired there is no better plan than to place them be- tween the mattress and feather bed. When any contagious disease has been under- gone the blankets of the patient's bed are most readily disinfected by putting them into a lai-ge brick oven some hours after the bread has been removed. Let the floor of the oven be swept, and sheets of brown paper laid upon it; on these spread out the blankets as widely and lightly as possible; leave the door of the oven open. If an oven cannot be employed, exposm'e to the kitchen fire, or washing the blankets in cold water must be adopted; but the last is to be avoided, because blankets are both washed and dried with great difiiculty. They must be put into lathery water and not have the soap rubbed upon them; must be wrung thoroughly, and dried very gently, neither before a fire nor in strong sunshine. Before they are quite dry they should be folded very smooth and pressed. BLANQUET BE VEAU. When a shoulder of veal has been served roasted, cut up what remains in pieces, and flatten them with the blade of a knife ; pare off the brown skin, then mince the meat; thin some rich gra\y; put in the veal, but do not let it boil; thicken with yolks of eggs, adding thereto some juice of lemon and a little butter. Minced parsley and young onions may be added at pleasure. BLEACHING is rendering articles white composed of cotton, linen, wool, straw, or silk. Cotton and linen are best bleached by washiii;^ and rinsing them thoroughly, and then dipping them in water containing a little chloride of lime or bleaching powder. The best proportions are 2 ozs. of the powder to 3 pints of water. The articles must remain in the liquid an hour, and then be thoi'oughly rinsed in two or three changes of clean, cold water. Flannel and other woollens are best bleached by scouring with fullers' earth and lathery water. If bleached by exposure to the fumes of burning sulphur, the wool is rendered hard and hai'sh. This harshness is removed by soaking in cold, lathery water, but then the yellow colour of the wool returns. Silk, usually, may be bleached by boiling in a water made lathery by white soap, and by repeated rinsings subsequently. Exposure to the fumes of burning sulphur also bleaches silk, after which the rinsings must be immediate and many. Straw may be bleached by soaking in a solution of bleaching powder, as directed for cotton. Soaking, also, in water con- taining oxalic acid, and exposure to the fumes of burning sulphur will also bleach it. One ounce of oxalic acid to a pint of water is a good proportion. BLEBS are the bubbles which stand on proof spirits in a phial when shaken. When they do not stand it is under proof. There are composi- tions for making them mthout strength.