[ 213 ] CAL CAL the meat entire from the bone, cut out the tongue, and carefully take out the brains ; lay thera all in cold water for two or three hours. Mince very small 2 lbs. of lean veal and 1 lb. of beef suet, with the grated crumb of a penny loaf, some sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Mix them well together, and bind it with the yolks of 4 eggs beaten up; re- serve as much forcemeat as will make twenty small balls. Wash the head clean, wipe it dry, and put the forcemeat into the inside. Close it, and tie it firmly with tape; put it into a stewpan with 2 quarts of gravy, ^ pint of white wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover it closely, and let it stew gently. Boil the tongue, cut it into thin slices. Mince the brains with a little parsley and a table-spoonful of flour; add some pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel and nutmeg; beat 2 eggs, and mix with the brains. Drop it with a spoon in small cakes into a pan of boil- ing dripping, and fry them of a light brown colour. Fry the forcemeat balls, and drain them •with the cakes upon the back of a sieve before the fire. When the head has stewed till it is sufficiently tender put it into a dish, and take off the tape. Strain the gravy, and thicken it with a table-spoonful of flour of rice, and a little bit of butter. If not well seasoned add more salt and pepper ; put in the tongue, make it all hot, and pour it over the head. Garnish with brain cakes, forcemeat balls, and cut lemon. CALF S HEAD(Collaeed). Scald the skull of a fine head; clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil tender enough to remove the bones; then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper well mixed, season it high with these; put a thick layer of parsley, then a quantity of thick slices of ham, or a fine-coloured tongue skinned, and yolks of 6 eggs stuck about it. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can; put a cloth round and tie it with tape. Boil, and lay a weight on it. CALF'S HEAD (Collared like Brawn). Scald the head till the hair comes clean off; then cut it in two and take out the brains and eyes. Wash it perfectly clean, and boil it till the bones come out. Slice the tongue and ears, and lay them all even. Throw a handful of salt on them, and roll it up quite close as other collars. Boil it two hours. When cold lay it in a brawn pickle. CALF'S HEAD (Fricassee). If the head has been browned pare it off and prepare a fricassee sauce, with a little well-seasoned white stock of any kind ; put in the meat only to simmer, and finish it with egg and cream. To this may be added sweetbreads, kidneys, lights nicely simmered jn mace, butter, and lemon zest, mushrooms, oysters, &c. This is an elegant dish, with the tongue larded and roasted in the middle, with red or green forced tomatoes, chillis, intermixed wilh crayfish, or tufts of fine-coloured, rasped ham round the dish; or rounds of bacon the size of half-a- crown, with rasped lemon on them, make a beautiful garnish. Garnish should always be appropriate. CALF'S HEAD (Fried). Cut a cold calf's head into middling-sized pieces and put into a jar; pour on them a marinade; when they have thoroughly imbibed the flavour, drain them, dip each piece in batter, and fry them. Do not let the oil or lard they are fried in be too hot. CALF'S HEAD (German way). Take a large calf's head, with a great part of the neck cut with it; split in half, blanch it, and take out the jaw-bone. Lay slices of bacon at the bottom of the stewpan, then thin beefsteaks, with pepper, and salt; put in the head. Pour beef gravy over it; add a large onion stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover it close and let it stew on a stove. Make a ragout with 1 quart of beef gravy, ^ pint of red wine some sweetbreads, parboiled and cut in slices, some cockscombs, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, and morels; stew them till tender. When the head is done put it into a dish, take out the brains, the eyes, and the bones; slit the tongue, and cut it into small pieces; do the same with the eyes, and chop the brains ; put these into a baking-dish, and pour some of the ragout over them ; then put the head, and pour the rest of the ragout over it, and melted butter, and over that scrape Parmesan cheese. Colour it a fine brown in the oven. CALF'S HEAD (Hashed), Boil the head almost enough, and take the meat of the best side nearly from the bone, and lay it in a small dish. Wash it over with the yolks of 2 eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, all mixed together previously. Set the dish before the fire, and keep turning it now and then, that all parts may be equally brown. In the mean- time slice the remainder of the head and the peeled tongue. Put a pint of good gravy into a pan with an onion, a small bunch of herbs, consisting of parsley, basil, savory, tarragon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme, a little salt and Cayenne, a shallot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster liquor; boil this for a few, minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which must be sprinkled with flour. Add some fresh or pickled mushrooms, a few truffles and morels, and 2 spoonsful of catsup. Beat up half the brains and put them to the rest, with a bit of butter and flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon-peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some shred parsley,