BIS BIS [ 114 ] 3 lbs. of almonds cut in half, 3 ozs. of cinnamon and mace pounded, and 1 lb. of powder sugar ; mix them all together on your slab. Boil 3 lbs. of Lisbon sugar with some water; make the above ingredients into a paste with this, and roll it to the size of a large rolling-pin; lay it on a sheet of paper, flatten it down a little with your hand, keeping it higher towards the ends ; put it into a very hot oven ; when done take it out, and, while hot, cut it across in slices an eighth of an inch thick, and dry them. BISCUIT, ST. CLOUD. Sift 2 ozs. of rice-flour through a tammy into an earthen pan, with i lb. of powder sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, and a little grated lemon-peel; beat them up together for a quarter of an hour; whisk the whites of 8 eggs to a froth, and mix them with the yolks. Put this into buttered moulds or paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take them from the mould while hot, and ice them in the following manner: beat up half the white of an egg and 2 table-spoonsful of powder sugar, with a wooden spoon; add, occa- sionally, a few drops of lemon-juice; when it becomes quite white lay it over the biscuits, and place them in the oven a minute to dry. BISCUIT, SYRINGE. Beat ] lb. of sweet almonds to a very fine paste, moistening them with white of egg ; and having grated the rinds of 6 lemons, mix them in 2^ lbs. of powder sugar with the almond paste. Take a syringe mould, the bottom of which should be flat, and a star cut out in the centre; half fill your syringe with paste, and press it through on to a well-floured slab; cut in pieces about three inches in length, lay them on sheets of paper to prevent their burning, and bake them in a brisk oven. BISCUIT, TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. Beat lib. of sweet and l|oz. of bitter almonds to a fine smooth paste, moisten with water, and mix the paste, which should not be too thux, with lb. of Lisbon sugar. Lay a sheet of writing-paper on your baking plate, and wafer paper on that; make the biscuits about the size of a half-crown piece; put a dried cherry in the middle of each; sift sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven. When done cut the wafer paper round, but do not take it away. BISCUIT, YARMOUTH. Pick and wash i pint of currants, dry them well, rub a little flour with them, and put them with ^Ib. of powder sugar, | lb. of sifted flour, and i lb. of fresh butter ; mix them into a paste with 3 eggs; roll it out to the thickness of the eighth of an inch; cut them into what shapes you please. Bake them of a light colour in a hot oven. BISCUITS (1). Weigh 8 eggs, an equal weight of sugar, and the weight of 4 in flour; beat up the yolks of 5, and put them into an earthen vessel with some rasped lemon-peel and the sugar ; beat them for a long time ; then add the whites of 11 eggs, also well beaten; then mix in the flour by degrees. Pour this into paper cases of whatever form or size you please ; strew powder sugar over them, and bake in a cool oven. BISCUITS (2). Lay the rind of a lemon in boiling water till it is tender; take | lb. of sweet almonds and blanch them in cold water; add 2 ozs. of gum dragon, which soak in plain water; then pound the almonds, putting in, as you pound, the whites of two eggs beaten hollow; pound the lemon in a stone mortar by itself; put the gum and the lemon into the almonds, and mix them well together ; then beat 1 lb. of fine sugar in a mortar with the almonds, gum, and lemon, and afterwards add 2 lbs. more of fine sugar, stirring it with a spoon. Then roll it up in little rolls, lay them upon white paper, and set them in the oven. BISCUITS (3). Make lib. of flour, the yolk of 1 egg, and some milk into a very stift paste ; beat it well, knead it till quite smooth, roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Prick and bake in a slow oven till diy and crisp. BISCUITS, ABERNE'THY. To 7 lbs. of flour, 1 quart of new milk, ^ lb. of butter, and i lb. of loaf sugar, add 2 ozs. of caraway seeds ; mix and knead them very well together; then roll them out, and cut and stamp them with a block. Bake them in a quick oven. BISCUITS, FRENCH. Take the weight of 3 new-laid eggs in flour, and an equal quan- tity of powder sugar. Beat up the whites of the 3 eggs with a whisk till they froth; then stir in ^ oz. of candied lemon-peel cut small and beaten well; then by degrees add the flour and sugar, after which put in the yolks, and with a spoon temper the whole together. Shape the biscuits on white paper, throw sifted sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. BISCUITS, HARD. Warm 2 ozs. of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make 1 lb. of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rolling pin, and work it very smooth. Roll it very thin and cut into biscuits ; prick and bake them for about six minutes. BISCUITS, ICED. Beat up the whites ot 8 and the yolks of 6 eggs, with 1 lb. of fine- powdered sugar, for two houi's. Have ready 14 ozs. of well-dried sifted flour ; when the oven is ready and the plates buttered, mix the flour as quickly as possible with the eggs, &c., and lay the biscuits on the plates. You may add a little musk and ambergris. Bake in a quick oven. BISCUITS, ITALIAN WATER. Whisk up 6 eggs, and an equal weight of powder sugar for half an horn". Take 6 more eggs and their weight of flour; mix all together, and