COF COF [ 331 ] a dish with a tin on the top; set the dish on a gentle stove; put fire on the top upon the tin, and when it has taken set it bj. Serve it cold. COFFEE CREAM (Patissiebe). Infuse J lb. of fresh-roasted coffee in 3 glasses of boiling milk; cover it closely, and when nearly cold pass it through a napkin ; put the infusion by degrees into a stewpan, in which are the yolks of 6 eggs, 2 spoonsful of flour, and a grain of salt. Stir and boil the cream as directed for Cream Pa- tissiere; add to the butter, as therein men- ti6ned, J ib. of powder sugar, and the same of crushed sweet macaroons. COFFEE CREAM (White). Boil for a quarter of an hour a liti-e of good milk with 2 ozs. of roasted coffee, the same quantity of raw coffee bruised, and a small piece of lemon-peel. After having strained the whole through a sieve add to it i lb. of powder sugar, the yolks of 6 and the whites of 3 eggs, beaten together ■with a spoonful of cream; then place the cream upon a dish over a stewpan full of boiling water. When it is set ice it over with sugar, and pass a salamander over it. Let it cool before it is served. COFFEE, CR'EME OF. Roast and grind i lb. of the best coffee, and infuse it for a week in 3 quarts of brandy. At the end of that time distil it in a bain marie, but be careful not to have too much heat, as in that case the coffee is apt to rise, and by that means spoil the liquor. Dissolve 3J lbs. of sugar in the same quantity of water, mix it with the liquor, and then strain it. COFFEE, CUSTARDS OF. Measure 15 of your moulds full of cream, and boil it. Having in the meantime lightly roasted 3 ozs. of coffee, throw it into the boiling cream, cover it closely, and let it infuse for a quarter of an hour; then pass it through a napkin, and proceed as directed in Small Custards. COFFEE EGGS. Make some good strong coffee, let it rest to clear as usual, and sweeten it with sugar according to discretion. Beat up 6 yolks of eggs with about 4 cups of coffee, and sift it. Pour this into little moulds in the form of eggs, or of any other (do not fill them quite), and bake in a mild oven or a Dutch oven, or with a braising pan ; cover between two fires. They are made after this manner in the shape of any fruit or bird if you have the proper moulds either of copper or china, &c. COFFEE, FROTHED. Take i lb. of ground coffee, make a very strong infusion with it, and pass this through a straining bag. Having dis- solved f lb. of powder sugar in a pint of double cream and the yolks of 6 eggs, put in the coffee, of which there should be no more than 3 cups, and whip it as directed for Frothed Cream. COFFEE, ICE CREAM. Make ^ pint of strong coffee, and pour it off very clear; mix with it pint of cream, and f lb. of sugar; boil a moment together, and when cold ice it. COFFEE, ITALIAN ICE. Infuse Jib. of roasted coffee in a pint of boiling hot double cream for two houi-s closely covered ; half whip the whites of 9 eggs, and, having strained the cream from the coffee, mix it with them; add ■| lb. of powder sugar, and put it over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken ; then ice it in the usual way. COFFEE JELLY. Roast i lb. of coffee over a moderate fire to a fine yellow. Take it from the fire, set aside the eighth part of it, and throw the rest into 3 glasses of nearly boil- ing water; cover it closely, and let it cool. In the meantime boil half a glass of water, and pour it over the small portion of coffee, which should be ground, adding a little isinglass. When perfectly clear pour it on the other infusion, having previously strained it through a silk sieve. Filter the whole, and mix it with | lb. of clarified sugar, 1 oz. of isinglass, and half a glass of kirkschwasser. Finish with ice as usual COFFEE MILK. Boil a dessert-spoonful of ground coffee in nearly half a pint of milk a quarter of an hour; then put into it a shaving or two of isinglass, and clear it. Let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. COFFEE PARFAIT AMOUR. For 4 bottles of brandy take 1 lb. of coffee in powder a little salt, 2 cloves, and a little cinnamon, then mix all together, for twelve hours before you distil it, 2 lbs. of sugar, 2 bottles and ^pint of water, clarified with whites of eggs filtered through paper. COFFEE PASTE. To 1 oz. of gum dragon dissolved in a glass of water put 1 oz. of coffee powder ; sift it in a fine lawn sieve, mix it in a mortar with as much powder sugar as is neces- sary to give it a proper consistence, and finish as all other pastes. COFFEE PASTILS. Take i lb. of pounded loaf sugar; have about the quantity of 2 cups of coffee made with water, which put to your sugar, and mix well till it makes a royal paste a little thickish, that you may take it upon a knife; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops, which we call pastils, of the size of a farthing; place them in the stove with a slow fire till they are quite dry, and take them from the paper. You may make them another way, namely, with ground coffee, which you sift very finely through a sieve, then adding a little water to bring it to the proper degree of liquidity the same as the above. COFFEE SUGAR. Put a cup of strong