GIB GIL [ 552 ] a sieve, and when the pie is baked pour some of this into it through a funnel. You may lay a rump steak at the bottom of the dish. GIBLET SOUP. Take three or four sets of goose or duck's giblets, and stew them with a pound or two of gravy beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal, an ox-tail, or some shanks of mutton, with three onions, a large bundle of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt; add five pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards, which must each be in four pieces, are quite tender; skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two tea-spoonsful of mushroom powder, and 1 oz. of butter mixed with a dessert- spoonful of flour; let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the giblets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of catsup, and some Cayenne. When in the tureen add salt. GIBLETS, STEWED. Do them as directed for GiBLET Pie, and season with salt, pepper, and a very small piece of mace. Before serving give them one boil with a cup of cream, and a bit of butter rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. GIDDINESS, or Vertigo. Giddiness is generally considered an indication of the brain being compressed, or rather, oppressed, by over- distended blood-vessels; but it is a symptora both of plenitude and depletion, and is a uniform precursor of fainting after the loss of blood. Indeed, every practitioner of experience and observation must be aware that cases of giddiness frequently occur in which it is often difficult to determine whether it be the eff'ect of congestion of blood-vessels, or some dis- ordered condition of the brain, or sympathetic of an affection of the stomach or bowels. The late Dr. Baillie acknowledged that he was often at a loss to determine the cause of giddiness, and whenever it was not clear he generally ordered an abstraction of 6 ozs. or 8 ozs. of blood by cupping, as a test of its nature. If this treatment afforded no relief, and especially if it aggravated the complaint, he recommended the following:—Take of camphorated julep 7 ozs.; powdered valerian root, 3 drachms ; compound spirit of ammonia, 3 drachms; car- bonate of soda, 8 drachms; tincture of cascarilla, 6 drachms: mix. Three table-spoonsful to be taken three times a day. In general we may judge of the state of the blood-vessels of the brain, by the appearance of the eyes, particularly if the vessels of the external tunic be considerably distended. Tliis, however, does not afford a certain indication; but when with this appearance the giddiness is increased by positions of the body that favour the afflux of blood to the head, as stooping, looking upwards, lying down, &c., there can be little doubt of the complaint being congestion of the vessels of the head. We have known patients who had scarcely been free for one month from attacks of giddiness for fifty years, which were sometimes attended with a degree of loss of sense and motion nearly approaching to apoplexy, but who always experienced an aggravation of the complaint from bleeding. They all died at an advanced age of diseased bowels. Flatulence is a common cause of giddi- ness, probably by distending the stomach and bowels, so as to compress the vessels of the belly, and check the return of blood from the head. In such case it is clear that the object o*. practice is to expel the gas accumulated in the alimentary canal by a stimulant (as brandy or spirit of sal volatile), and that abstraction of blood would prove injurious. A clergyman of Herefordshire, apparently predisposed to apo- plexy, always had recourse to the following gout cordial whenever he was affected with giddiness, in direct opposition to the advice of his physician, the late Dr. Campbell; and by this practice, and attending to his bowels, he lived to a good old age ; and the doctor was at length so satisfied of the benefit he derived from it that he had recourse to it himself when- ever he was affected with giddiness, although apparently produced by cerebral congestion, and he thought he thereby prolonged his life many years :—Take of the best Turkey rhubarb sliced, i oz.; the lesser cardamom seeds bruised, 6 drachms; hay saffron, 8 drachms; orange- peel bruised, 2^ ozs.; spirit of the bucku leaves, 1 quart: mix. After standing in a bottle well corked for a fortnight, during which the liquor should be shaken once a day, strain the liquor through fine gauze for use, The dose is from two table-spoonsful to a wine-glassful, according to the degree of pain or spascns in the stomach or bowels. GILDING is the application of gold to the surface of bodies, and is of two kinds, according to the method of applying the gold. Wood, leather, paper, and soft substances are gilt by fastening on leaves of gold by some cement. The gilding of wood and similar sub- stances is of three kinds—oil gilding, bur- nished gilding, and jupanners'' gilding. Metals are gilt by a chemical application of the gold to the surface, and this is called water gilding. Gold Leaf. There are three kinds of gold leaf in use. ♦ Pure gold leaf is made by hammering gold between the leaves of a book made of skins till it is sufficiently thin. Pale gold leaf, with a greenish colour, is made of gold alloyed with silver. Dutch gold (brought from Holland) is copper leaf coloured by the fumes of zinc. It is cheaper