[ 354 ] COR COR eartli yielded by the genuine coral. The colour- ing ingredients employed in preparing the former are cinnabar and minium, both of which are easily ascertained. The natural coral re- ceives its colour from iron. For ornamental work not requiring rough usage artificial coral may be made by melting together 4 ozs. of common resiu and 1 oz. of vermilion, stirring them well, and dipping into the melted mixture small twigs of trees, cinders, or other bodies having the form of native coral. CORD-EDGE. The strip of silk or satin of which cord-edge is made is cut on the cross, or Mas, as it is called ; that is, neither straight along by the selvage nor off the breadth, but between the two. Cut in this manner the strip stretches easily, and can he turned this way and that without puckering, as a straight piece never does. This strip is generally about an inch wide. It should be quite evenly cut, and several lengths should be joined before you begin to make the cord-edge. The black or white cord, of the length required, is laid along the middle of the strip of silk; the upper half of the silk is folded down over the cord, and the two thicknesses of silk are tacked together so as to inclose the cord between them. What you have chiefly to look to is that your joins are neatly made, so that they will neither give way nor show any of the white of the selvage, and that the two edges of the silk are kept so even as that the cord shall never be left bare either on the upper or under side. You will also avoid leaving long thread-ends, which will annoy those ■who are to use the cord-edge. When the cord-edge is to be made of merino, or of any twilled material, care must be taken to cut the strips on such a bias or cross as that the twill may lie across the cord, instead of run- ning along it. The first looks neat—the latter particularly ugly. It is a temptation, when small bits of silk are lying about, to take any that are on any cross for making cord-edge ; but the same piece of cord-edge should be made of strips cut all on the same cross. Two bits, one cut from left to right, and the other from right to left, may have quite a different shade when joined, so as to look as if they did not come off the same piece. To make double cord-edge tack together two single cord-edges, leaving one a little below the other. A more experienced hand makes double cord-edge with less waste of time and of silk. She cuts the strip rather wider than for a single edge, runs a cord into each edge, and then, in using the edge, sets the two cords on together. —{The Dress-maker.) CORDIAL, GODFREY'S. This is a pre- paration cf opium, and tliough it may quiet a child by stupefying it, yet, if frequently given, it invariably injures the child's health perma- nently. It is given in a dose from half a tea- spoonful to a dessert-spoonful, according to the child's age. Boil ^ oz. of each of the seeds of anise, coriander, and caraway, and 4^ ozs. of sassafras chips into 3 pints of water until re- duced to 1 pint; then add 3 lbs. of very brown sugar; boil again gently for ten minutes. When cold add 1.^ ozs. of laudanum. CORDIALS, DOMESTIC. Cinnamon Cor- dial. Take 1 oz. of the finest cinnamon; bruise it in a mortar, put it into a bottle, and add a pint of spirit of wine. Now pro- ceed exactly as is done in making lemon brandy, excepting that it will be well to strain through fine muslin before filtering through blotting paper, as the cinnamon clogs up the filter and greatly retards the process. Ginger Cordial. Take 2 ozs. of the very best ground ginger; put it into a large earthen vessel (a stew-pot); pour on it two quarts of cold water; stir well with a clean stick or a silver spoon, and put the vessel into the oven of the common Idtcheu range. When it begins to simmer stir again, and when it boils open the oven door, and let it continue to simmer gently for six hours, occasionally stirring it; then take it out of the oven, and cover it up. The next day put it into the oven again for six hours, stirring it every now and then; take it out, let it stand to cool, and when cold pour off the clearer liquor, for most of the ginger will have fallen to the bottom. There should be a quart of liquor; if there is more the simmering must be continued longer; if less, water should be added to make up the deficiency. Now dissolve in the quart of ginger water 2 lbs. of treble- refined lump sugar; bring it to the boil; add to it when cold a quart of spirits of wine ; stir the whole well together, and filter. When bitter almonds are not thought objectionable the ad- dition of a few to the spirits of wine, some few days before it is added to the ginger syrup, will be found an improvement. This cordial has a little but not much colour. It should be kept longer than most of the others ; but in six months it will be in tolerable condition. Lemon Cosdial—Lemon Brandy. Take 8 fine lemons, having a clear, unspotted skin and a rough surface; pare the rind off very thin; divide it into small shreds ; put them into a bottle; add a pint of spirits of wine (a dozen blanched and bruised bitter almonds are a judicious addition), cork the bottle, and let it stand six days. Make a syrup of 1 lb. of treble-refined sugar ; bring it to the boil; let it cool; pour it into the bottle; shake the whole well; let it stand six days more; filter through blotthig paper, and the cordial is made. So prepared it is perfectly clear, and of a fine delicate lemon