COB [ 357 ] COR As corpulency depends upon too great an ao- cumulatiou of fat the patient should endeavour to get rid of it gradually, without injury to the constitution, by diminishing his usual quantity of nourishment, and substituting less nutritious substances. He should abstain from drink, par- ticularly fermented liquors, eat no suppers, use much exercise by day, take short rest, rise early every morning, &c. By these and such-like means corpulence may be reduced in a gradual manner without injuring the general health. Nitric acid, in the proportion of 9 drachms to 1 pint of water daily, has been advised to re- duce a corpulent habit; and among other medi- cines, conjoined with the above method of train- ing, those promoting perspiration, with occasional moderate purging, have been employed. CORROSION OF METALS. To prevent this dip the metal into a mixture of equal quantities of nitric acid and water; then dip the metal into linseed oil; let the superfluous oil drain away, and the remainder dry on. This effectually preserves a metal from rusting or oxidation. CORROSIVE SUBLIMATE is a deadly poison; indeed, it is one of the most acrid and active of all metallic preparations. In well- directed doses, however, it is frequently of ser- vice in secondary syphilis, and in cases of analogous disease, when it would be improper to administer the other forms of mercury. In obstinate cutaneous diseases its administration in small doses is often very serviceable. Its application also as a lotion to leprous affections, in the proportion of about \ grain to 1^ fluid oz. of some liquid vehicle, has frequently been highly beneficial, In directing the use of so acrid a lotion we should caution the patient not to touch his eyes until his hands have been washed. In consequence of a neglect of tbis kind very severe ophthalmia has been pro- duced. Its exhibition should be accompanied with mucilaginous drinks. When an over-dose has been taken the white of egg diluted with water is the best antidote; for Orfila has found that albumen decomposes it, reducing it to the state of mild muriate, whilst the compound which it forms with it is inert. More recently vegetable gluten, as existing in wheat flour, is said to answer as well as albumen, for the administration of which all that is required is to give wheat flour and water. CORSETS. We must admit that corsets may be rendered necessary by their use from childhood, and could not ad\ise, for modesty's sake, the entire disuse of this description of vest- ment, recommending in their stead a species of corset or bodice that would embrace the person without imposing undue restraint. This kind of corset was used by the women of ancient Greece, whose exquisite forms have been handed to us through the sculptor's art, and regarded in all ages as models of womanly beauty. It may not be unprofitable to contrast the attire and personal appearance of a matron or maiden of ancient Greece and a wife or daughter of Great Britain in our own times. The former is clad in soft flowing drapery, which reveals, with due regard to delicacy, the undulating outline of the form ; the upper part of the garment is crossed gracefully over her swelling bosom, whilst u girdle confines the lower part about her round but uncompressed waist, the vestment falling in elegant folds around her feet. The latter is attired in a robe that fits tightly to the upper part of her person, the artistic beauty of the bust being utterly destroyed by the bosom being raised to an unnatural height, the waist elon- gated beyond nature's limits, and too frequently compressed into the smallest possible compass ; the lower part of the garment is of an enormous width, and stands out from the person, imparting a rotundity to the lower portion of the figure that is totally at variance and out of proportion with the upper. To the skirt of the robe are fre- quently attached deep flounces or puffings, which materially add to the size of the dress, causing the wearer to appear badly formed, be she so or not. According to all recognised rules of beauty promulgated alike by ancient and modern masters the distance should be short from the shoulder to the waist, and comparatively long from the waist to the ankle. Thus to have a perfect form it is requisite to have a short body and long limbs, and this rule applies alike to the male and female forms. But the present style of dress sets at naught all artistic and recognised formula, as the body is made to ap- pear unnaturally long, and the lower part of the person is divided into as many sections as prac- ticable by flounces and furbelows. None save a very tall, slender woman should wear a flounced robe, and then only if her gait and carriage be remarkably good. Although we cannot say with the poet peer " that we hate a dumpy woman," we entertain a strong dislike to see apetite dame with a garment encumbered with a quantity of trimming, as her figure looks most inelegant, the dimensions of the lower portion of her attire giving a breadth to her person that is out of all proportion with her height. None of these in- congruities are apparent in the ancient costume of the Greeks, and we will simply inquire of our fair perasei's which picture is the moi'e pleasant to the mental vision, that of the Greek or British matron. Corsets or stays are worn for the sake of the firm hold which they insure to the supei'- incumbent garments, and also for their supposed power of giving a sylph-like form to the female