[ 248 ] CAS C A T ture IS nn iusoluble soap of lime and a solution of soda. In habitual constipation and in biliary obstructions it is frequently prescribed, in con- junction with rhubarb, or some bitter, in which cases it can only act as a laxative, or as a chemical agent, in increasing the solubility of the substance with which it is united. It has been also given in solution as an antidote to metallic poisons, and it is often successfully injected as a clyster, in unrelenting and habitual costiveness. As an external application it is used in the form of liniment. It is much used in forming pill-masses. CASTOR OIL is obtained by pressure from the kernels of the seeds of the Ricinus coin- munis. This is a mild purgative : ^ oz. pui-ges without pain; 1 oz. rather violently, but seldom disorders the stomach ; 1 drachm, or at the most 2 drachms, is a dose sufficient for an in- fant. No purgative is so useful where the patient is subject to an accumulation of bile; if given once or twice a week it will prevent its gather- ing. It is also useful in complaints of the kidneys, and in bilious diarrhoea. In the dry bellyache and Devonshire colic it is the best and only purge: ^oz. every four hours, witVi 10 drops of the tincture of opium ; or it may be made into an emulsion in the following form : — Take castor oil, 1 oz.; mucilage of gum arabic, 1 oz.; tincture of senna, 1 oz.; mint water, 4 ozs.; tincture of opium, 40 drops. Blend the oil with the mucilage, pour the mint water on gradually, and keep stirring it; then add the other articles in the same manner. The fourth part may be taken for a dose every four hours. Castor oil, indeed, is so mild in its operation that it may be given to infants; and like all other oils it is a good vermifuge, or wcrm-expeller. In colic, calculous complaints, gravel, iliac passion, obstinate costiveness, piles, dysentery, &c., it is not only the mildest, but the best aperient. It may be taken as prescribed in the abosje emulsion in any aromatic water, such as peppermint, &c. Its taste is by no means <iisagreeable, and in all cases as a purga- tive it may be prescribed; it ought to have the preference given to it, not only from the mild- ness with which it operates, but from its efficacy. CAT. The domestic eat is a variety of the wild species Felts mtus. It does not seem to have been a native of this country, for so highly was this animal prized about nine centuries since that Hovvel Dhu, who reigned over Wales and died in 948, had a law especially regulating its price, and punishing those who stole it. His law enacts :—" That the priceofii kitten, before it could see, was one penny; .until it caught a mouse, two ipennies ; and when it commenced mousing, four pennies." It was then required " to be perfect in its senses of seeing and hear- ing, have all its claws perfect, and, if a female, to be a good nurse ; if the animal failed in any of these specified qualifications, the seller was to forfeit to the purchaser the third part of its value. If any person stole the cat that guarded the gi'anaries of the Prince, he was to forfeit a milch ewe, with its fleece and lamb; or in lieu of these, as much wheat as when poured upon the cat, suspended by the tail, her head touching the floor, would form a heap high enough to cover the tip of the former." The domestic cat, when suffered to retire tc thickets, easily returns to a wild state. Its colour is uncommonly diversified; but the most beautiful varieties are the reddish Spanish cat, and that of Angora, with long silken hair. A tame cat generally attains the age of about twelve years. The female breeds in the first year, though it grows till eighteen months old; she usually produces from four to six. blind kittens after a gestation of fifty-five days. The flesh of animals or fish is the most agree- able food to cats, for they partake of vegetable aliment only from necessity. As they chew with difficulty frequent drink is indispensably requisite to the preservation of their health. There are, however, some plants of which they are excessively fond, and when indulged with them present a variety of whimsical gesticula- tions. Of this nature is the valerian root, and the herb called nep or cat-mint (the Nepeta cataria). On the contrary, they shun other vegetables as tkeir mortal enemies, for instance, the common rue, or Huta graveolens. Any sub- stance rubbed with the leaves of this plant is said to be perfectly secure from their depi'edations. Cats enjoy a warm temperature and a soft couch ; moisture and filth, as well as water and cold, are equally repugnant to their nature ; hence they are continually cleaning themselves with their paws and tongue. Another peculiarity is the purring of these animals, when they are cajoled or flattered by passing the hand over their backs. This singular noise is performed by means of two elastic membranes in the larynx, or the upper part of the windpipe. Their hair is so electric that the expanded skin of a cat makes an excellent cushion for the glass cylinder, or globe, of an electrifying machine. From the intestines of these animals are manu- factured the celebrated Roman strings for the violin. With respect to their peculiarities we tihall remark that cats possess a very acute sense of both smell and sight. By the structure of their eyes, which sparkle in the dark, they are better enabled to discover objects of prey, such as mice and rats, at night than in the daytime. Hence they ought not to be luxuriously fed if kept for the destruction of those vermin. It is, however,