[ 566 ] GOO GOO in long slices in the line d e from one wing to the other, but only remove them as you help each person, unless the company is so large as to require the legs also. In taking off the leg put the fork into the small end of the bone, press- ing it to the body, and having passed the knife at d, turn the leg back, and if the goose is young the joint will separate with ease. To take otT the wing put the fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it closely; then insert the knife at d, and divide the joint by cutting down in the direction d e. When the leg and wing of one side are separated go to the other, if the company is so large as to require it. The best parts are the slices on the breast; the flesh of the wing divided from the pinion; the thigh bone, which may be separated easily from the drumstick, or bone of the leg ; the pinion ; and next the side bones. The sage and onion should be taken out from the body with a spoon at the place where the apron laid, and then mixed with the gravy, which must be poured into the goose before any person is served. Some people like the rump, and others give a preference to the carcass, as being juicy and savory. In a green goose the most delicate parts are the breast, and the gristle inamediately below it. GOOSE : To Choose. In choosing a goose, either wild or tame, observe whether the bill be yellowish, and the body has few hairs, in which case the bird is young; but if the bill and feet be red, and the body hairy, it is old. When new the feet will be limber, and when stale they are dry and stiff. GOOSE : To Maeikate. Cut a goose up the back, bone it, and make a stuffing with a few sage leaves, an onion or two, two apples, bread crumbs, pepper, salt, lemon-peel, nutmeg, and yolk of egg. Stuff it, sew it up the back, half roast or fry it, and stew it with good gravy (covered closely) till it is tender; put in a little red wine, and strain and skim the sauce; add Cayenne, catsup, a little flour, salt if necessary, and a little lemon juice. Boil this up for a minute or two, and then serve it over the goose. GOOSE : To Pot. Cut a fat goose down -the rump, and bone it; laj'- it quite open, season it well with the grating of three nutmegs, an equal weight of white pepper, and douhle the quantity of salt. Keep it in the seasoning two nights and one day, then roll it up tightly like collared beef, and bind it fast. Bake it till tender, let it lie in the liquor an hour, then take it out, and the next day place it in a pot with clarified butter over it. GOOSE: To Teuss. Having picked the goose clean, cut off the feet at the joint; next separate the pinions at the first Joint, and the neck close to the back, leaving the skin long enough to turn over. Loosen the liver and other entrails, and having opened the vent, draw them out except the soul. Wipe the inside clean with a cloth, and beat the breast bone flat with a rolling-pin. Put a skewer under each wing, and having drawn up the legs closely put a skewer into the middle of each, and pass the same quite through the body. Insert another skewer into the small of the leg, bring it close down to the side bone, run it through, and do the same to the other side. Next cut off the end of the vent, and make a cavity sufficiently large for the passage of the rump, in order to keep in the seasoning. GOOSE A LA BAYONNE. Take the legs and wings from as many half-roasted fat geese as you may think pi'oper, bone them, and when cold rub them with salt and saltpetre, and lay them regularly in a pan, with bay leaves, thyme, and sage between each layer; cover the pan closely, and let them lie thus twenty-four hours ; then take them out, dry, and finish cooking them over a slow fire in their own fat. When sufficiently done take them out, but keep the fat warm. As soon as the legs and wings are cold place them closely in a jar, leaving a space at the top of about three inches, which fill up with the warm fat. Do not tie the jar over until the whole is quite cold. GOOSE, BOILED., Take a goose, singe it, and pour over it a quart of boiling milk; let it lie in this all night, then take it out, and dry it well with a cloth. Cut into small pieces a large onion and some sage, put them into the goose, sew it up at the neck and vent, and hang it up by the legs till the next day; then put it into a pot of cold water, cover it closely, and let it boil gently for an hour. Serve with onion sauce. GOOSE EN DAUBE. This dish is seldom prepared but with an old goose, which, when singed and trussed, is larded with bacon, seasoned with parsley, scallions, shallots, garlic, sage, thyme, basil (all chopped small), pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Do up some roasted chest nuts with some butter and a little sugar; stuff your goose with this, put the bird into a pan, with slices of bacon under and over it, and moisten it with broth or water, and white wine. Put in also a knuckle of veal cut in pieces, four