[; 408 ], DEA DEB injury by violent blows, bruises, or cuts, attended with great loss of blood, whicb could not be stopped by artificial means. If we are unable to supply the loss of this vital fluid, and to restore the organisation of the parts thus destroyed, particularly if the brain, the lungs, the heart, the stomach, or any of the intestines have suffered from a severe wound, a speedy dissolution may be considered as inevitable. 5. After chronic disorders of the intestines, obstnictions of the abdominal vessels, and dropsy thence arising, or if an incurable weakness in the breast has occasioned the organic destruction or ossification of the pectoral vessels, there is little prospect of the recovery of such a person, as these complaints of asthmatic sufferers in general are not in a just proportion to the whole state of the body, for instance, if their appetite and digestion have been unimpaired previous tQ their disease, or if their muscular strength has not suffered from the like affections. 6. Inpersonsof tender and debilitated nerves, who have been long subject to spasms or epi- leptic fits, particularly if they die in childbed in consequence of violent hemorrhages, or after repeated and oppressive agitations of mind. In such cases there is no hope left, as it is too late to think of changing or improving the con- stitution of the nervous system. 7. Lastly, if a person gradually wastes away in a malignant, nervous, or putrid fever, or after long fasting from want of food. In these in- stances it is not in the power of the medical art to restore the shriveled vessels to their proper tension and energy, and consequently all our attempts to re-animate the body will be unavailing. ' There remains now to be stated, also, in what cases and situations the symptoms of apparent death are less certain, so that some hope of re- covery is still left to the disconsolate friend and relative. These are principally the following:— After faintings, sudden loss of blood from diseased intestines ; in certain cases of repelled morbid matter, for instance, in the small pox, measles, poisons, and the like, which frequently produce a spurious kind of apoplexy ; after hysteric and hypochondriac spasms and colics of a transitory kind which have not too often recurred; after mental anxiety, perturbation, terror, and other oppressive passions, where everything depends on a speedy removal of the causes. To this list we may likewise add the cases of drowned, hanged, and otherwise suffocated persons, or those who appear to be dead in consequence of a fall from high scaffoldings without any external injury. In such accidents an external pressure or stoppage of the vital functions, as breathing iaud the circulation of the blood, often produces a state of apparent death. Even the suppressed pulse in the arteries, imperceptible respiration, the coldness and rigidity of the limbs, the want of contractibility in the pupil of the eye, the involuntary loss of excrementitious substances- all these symptoms of approaching dissolution should not discourage us from trying the proper means of recovering the patient's life. In chil- dren and young persons in particular we must not too hastily decide whether they be absolutely dead or not. Teething is frequently attended with diversified convulsive symptoms, and the tape-worm is capable of producing the most alarming effects, which the inexperienced by- standers may unwarily ascribe to very different causes. Hence every possible degree of pre- caution is requisite in managing the bodies of infants apparently dead, and they ought not to be removed from the warm temperature of the sick room before the last lingering spark of life is extinguished ; indeed, it must strike even superficial observers that the hasty removal of a body from a warm to a colder temperature is highly improper and dangerous. DEBILITY is that feeble state of life in which the vital functionsare languidly performed, when the mind loses its cheerfulness and vivacity, when the limbs are tottering with weakness, aiid the digestive faculty is impaired. This complaint may arise from a great variety of causes, of which the following are the prin- cipal:—1. Descent from enfeebled parents. 2. Changes in the admixture and component parts of the surrounding atmosphere. 3. A sedentary and indolent mode of life. 4. Im- moderate sleep, or, in a still more hurtful degree, want of the necessary portion of sleep and repose. 5. Too great exertions either of mind or body. 6. The unnecessary and imprudent use of medi- cines. Lastly, the almost total disuse and exclusion of gymnastic exercise, and the general introduction of sedentary games, the effect of which creates an almost universal apathy to every pursuit that requires exertion. Debility is the source of numerous disorders, such as spasms, palsy, violent evacuations,- hemorrhages, putrid and nervous fevers, fainting fits, and apparent death. The means employed for the preserving and Taa.inta.mmg feeble life are as various as the causes on which it depends, and the disorders with which it is generally accompanied. The first object that claims the attention of persons in this state is warmth, the external application of which ought to be proportioned to the temperature of the body, and gradually augmented accordingly as the natural warmth of the individual increases. If duly applied gentle heat possesses both stimu- lating and strengthening properties, by which the activity of the vital principle is excited and supported. The communication o^ warmth may