[ 284 ] CHE CHE it is thick. Lay a pufF-paste all over the dish, pour in the mixture, and bake it. When you cannot procui'e cream take 3 pints of milk, beat up the yolks of 4 eggs and stir it into the milk; set it over the fire, stirring all the lime until it is scalding hot; then mix it in the room of the cream. CHESTNUT PUEEE. Slit the peel of some fine new chestnuts, and fry them in a little butter till the peel comes off; then let them boil in some consomme and sugar. Add half a dozen spoonsful of Espagnole when nearly done, and then rub the whole through a tammy. This sauce, being apt to get too thick, must be kept rather liquid. CHESTNUT SOUP. Half roast about seventy or eighty chestnuts in hot ashes, and then take off the outer , and second skins. Boil them in some good beef or rich fowl stock. When well done pound those which have broken in the boiling, and press them through a sieve, moistening them with stock as a puree. Keep the unbroken chestnuts to place round the dish as a garnish. CHESTNUTS: To Keep. Pierce the skins of the chestnuts as if for roasting, and then put them into bottles, and boil them up in the bain marie. When you wish to use them throw them one by one into cold water, then sprinkle salt over them, and broil them. CHESTNUTS AU CARAMEL. Roast chestnuts as for the table; take off the skins, dip each in the whites of eggs beaten, and then roll them in powder sugar. Lay them sepa- rately on paper to dry in a moderate oven. They may be cut into different forms if you think proper, and glazed either white or brown. CHESTNUTS GLACES. Having taken the outer skin from some fine chestnuts blanch them in some boiling water, with two spoonsful of flour, until they are sufficiently tender to allow a pin to pass through them easily; then take them one by one from the saucepan, clear away the inner skin, and throw them into cold water. When all are done drain them, and simmer them a minute or two in some clarified sugar; then add a little lemon-juice, and put them into a stove till the next day. Di'ain them again, and boil the sugar about ten or twelve times, and set it by. When lukewarm put in the chestnuts, and place the whole in the stove again. When ready to finish drain the chestnuts a third time, sprinkle them with sugar, and dry them on slates. CHESTNUTS AND PLUM PUDDING. Having roasted thirty-six chestnuts choose from among them ten that are perfectly white, and cut them in halves; take from the remainder a quarter of a pound, and beat them, with an equal weight of fresh butter, to a paste; rub them through a horsehair sieve, and add to them 3 ozs. of rice flour, 6 yolks of eggs, and 2 whole eggs; 14 ozs. of veal suet, shred; J lb. of sugar, the same of bitter macaroon, and the same of stoned raisins; the 20 half chestuuts, each cut into four pieces; half a glass of cream, a pinch of salt, grated nutmeg, and half a glass of rum or arrack. CHESTNUTS, RAGOtT OF. When the chestnuts are properly prepared put them into a saucepan with half a glass of white wine, 2 spoonsful of cullis, a little stock and salt, and boil until reduced to a thick sauce. Be care- ful not to break the chestnuts, but they must be thoroughly done. CHESTNUTS, ROASTED. They should be placed on the fire, in a pan with holes, to roast, first slitting or cutting a notch in the skins to prevent their flying off. When done serve them in dessert, on a napkin, as hot as possible. Some boil the chestnuts instead of roasting them, as the skins are then clearer, but the nuts are not quite so mealy. The better way is to boil them in plenty of water, and when nearly done take them out and roast them. CHESTNUTS, STEWED. Cut a notch in the skins of about fifty chestnuts, and put them into a stewpan with a little butter; shake them over the fire; and when the skin is quite come off let them simmer in some consomme. Turn them about occasionally till nearly dry; then add a little Espagnole, and simmer them gently in that for a shoit time. If it should be too thick you may add more consomme. Salt it to your taste, and put in a few mushrooms stewed. Great care should be taken not to break the chestnuts. Serve them with roasted turkey, stewed beef, &c. CHETNEY, ENGLISH. Three pounds of very sour apples must be peeled, cored, and pounded to a mash; ^ lb. of green mint leaves chopped fine; the juice of 2 lemons; i lb. of chillies or the bird's eye, if to be had fresh from the plant; ^ lb. of salt, and i lb. of onions. All to be pounded in a stone or marble mortar to a paste, and then pressed hard into pots. CHETNEY, INDIAN. Take 2 lbs. of green tamarinds after they are stoned; 2 lbs. of green or unripe mangoes ; 2 lbs. of ginger roots, fresh; 2 lbs. of onions or garlic; 1^ lb. of raisins, and 7 pints of strong vinegar. Pound well the first four ingredients, peel off the skins of the onions or garlic, put all into a jar that will hold them with the vinegar, and expose it to the sun, well secured from bad weather, for one month. CHEVREUIL SAUCE. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan with chopped parsley, shallots, thyme, mushrooms, and a few spoons- ful of gravy or brown stock; let them simmer