COU [ 321 ] COB To clean a coat collar. , Open the collar, and lay the coat upon its back on a clean table; have at hand some cotton wadding (to be cheaply obtained at the mercer's), and, taking a con- venient and manageable quantity of it in the hand, soak it freely in clean spirit of turpentine poured out into a saucer, and apply it all over the collar wherever disfigured with greasy matter. Take the coat, and hold it at a moderate distance from the fire, to warm the collar and promote the action of the turpentine as a solvent. Before becoming dry, and while warm, apply fresh turpentine, and with successive rubbings between the hands and pressure, and renewal of the wadding, it will be found that the whole of the objectionable matter may be removed. The remaining smell of the turpen- tine will soon escape from the collar on being exposed to the open air or moderate influence of a fire. COBALT is a metal, the oxides of which, owing to their permanent blue colour, are of great use to the painter, potter, and laundress. It is extremely valuable to the manufacturers of porcelain, for it not only produces a beauti- ful colour, but endures the extreme heat of their furnaces without ai)y deterioration. This colour is so intense that a single grain of the pure oxide will give a deep tint of blue to 240 grains of glass. The strewing-smalt, an article which was formerly much used by sign painters, is made by melting the oxide of cobalt with flint glass, and grinding the whole to a coarse powder. The same composition reduced to an impalpable powder forms the smalt sold under the name of powder bine, and which is now not only used by laundresses, but is made the basis of several pigments. It has also been much employed by paper manufacturers to give a blue tinge to writing and printing papers. In the fifteenth century cobalt was employed to colour glass, and yet till lately but small quantities of it have been used. Formerly the miners threw it aside as useless. They con- sidered it so troublesome when they found it among other ores, that a prayer was used in the German church that God would preserve miners from cobalt and from evil spirits. The greatest consumption of cobalt is by the potters and porcelain manufacturers, some of whom make their own colour from foreign zafTre; but in Staffordshire there are several people who make an entire trade of preparing this colour for the earthenware manufacturers, and who conduct the process with great secrecy. The usual price of the prepared colour is two guineas the pound. COCCULUS INDICUS, or Jagged Moon- BEED, is the berry of a Malabar shrub known to botanists as Cocculus suherosus. The berries are about the size of large peas, of a grey colour, and wrinkled surface. They contain a kidney-shaped seed within a very thick shell- Four ounces of the nut gave 1 oz. of the seeds. The shell has little taste. The seeds are in- tensely and durably bitter. M. Boullay analysed them, and found them to contain about half their weight of a concrete waxy oil, albumen, a particular colouring matter, a bitter poisonous principle, picrotoxine, lignine, and various saline matters. Picrotoxine resembles camphor in its action on the liviug system, but is much more powerful and deleterious. The Cocculus Indicus is used both in India and in this country to intoxicate fishes, in order that they may be caught; and it is said to be employed by some porter brewers to give bitter- ness to their beer, and to render it more in- toxicating. An ointment made with it has long been a domestic remedy in some places to kill vermin on the head, and is successfully applied in cases of tinea capitis, and in sycosis menti. This use of it is probably derived from the native practitioners of India, who beat it into a fine powder, and mix it with a little warm castor oil, as an application in cases of inveterate itch and ringworm. Dr. Jaeger has lately used with success, in tinea capitis, a salve made of 10 grains of picrotoxine rubbed up with 1 oz. of lard. One ounce and a half of the salve generally sufficed for a cure, which was effected in less than four weeks. COCHINEAL (Coccus cacti). Cochineal is the dried body of the female of a hemipterous insect. It is found only in Mexico, chiefly in the province of Oaxaca, on the leaves of a non- descript cactus, according to Humboldt. There are two kinds of the cochineal insect, which live on different species of cactus, &c. It is worthy of notice that not only the fruit, but even the green joints of several species of cactus dye cotton purple or red. The wild cochineal, [grana Sylvester), which is covered with a silky or cottony envelope, is less valuable than the cultivated or powdery cochineal, which is without that covering, grows to a larger size, and furnishes a finer and more permanent colour. Cochineal has the form of hemispherical grains, flat or concave on one side, and convex; on the other, and having some appearance of transverse rings, about a line in diameter, dry, light, friable, of a blackish red colour externally, sometimes covered with a white bloom. Powder of a purplish carmine colour; smell, especially when powdered, musty; taste musty, like sourish old cheese; not liable to deterioration when properly kept. Cochineal is enumerated among the diuretic