[ 282 J CHE CHE ries, put them in a basin, pound the kernels, and squeeze the juice of 4 lemons through a tammy. Mash the cherries with a wooden spoon, putting iu first half a pot of currant jelly, then the kernels, and lastly the lemon-juice; mix these together well; then, having boiled and skimmed 1 pint of thick clarified sugar and isinglass, put the cherries into a jelly bag, pour the sugar, &c., over them; run it through till quite clear. If not sufiiciently sweet add more sugar; if the contrary add more lemon-juice. Wet the mould, set it in ice, and fill it with the jelly. Do not turn it out till the last minute. CHERRY MARCHPANE. Take 3lbs. of sweet almonds, S^lbs. of sugar, and lib. of cherries; pound the almonds to a paste, and mix it with sugar boiled to petit boulet; then, having stoned, well bruised, and squeezed out the juice of the cherries, add to it the rest; stir it well, place it on hot ashes, stirring con- stantly until the paste is properly done; then finish it in the usual way. CHERRY MARMALADE. Choose the ripest, largest, best red-coloured cherries you can meet with, and take of them double the weight of the sugar you intend to use ; stone and tail, and then put them on a gentle fire, and keep stirring them till reduced to half. Clarify and boil your sugar to petite casse, then add the fruit to it, and stir it until you can see the bottom of the pan. The marmalade is then sufiiciently done, and may be put into pots. CHERRY PASTE. Take 2 lbs. of morello cherries, stone them, press out the juice through a sieve (they must be boiled first), and put it into a skillet over the fire to dry a little; mix lib. of sugar, boiled to grande plume, with this, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. When the paste is of good consistence put it into moulds, and dry it in a gentle oven. CHERRY PUDDING. Make a plain batter pudding and stir in picked cherries, taking care not to break them. The batter must be made thicker, and with more eggs, than for plain boiling. Tie it in a cloth, and boil it as any other pudding. CHERRY RATAFIA. Take the stones and stalks from the quantity of cherries you intend to use, and put a few raspberries with them; bruise and put them into a jar, and let them stand for four or five days, stirring the pulp two or three times eaeh day; then press out all the juice, measure it, and to every three pints of it put a quart of brandy; add to these five pints 3 handsful of kernels pounded, and \\Vo. of sugar. Infuse in the same jar a handful of coriander and a little cinnamon. Let it stand seven or eight days, stirring it every day ; then filter it, put it into bottles, and cork them well. CHERRY TARTLETS. Take the stones from l^lb. of sweet cherries, and give them a few boils in Jib. of powder sugar, but no water. Prepare your tartlets in the usual way, and, having drained the fruit, put it in, and mask the tartlets with the syrup reduced. CHERRY WATER. Take 1 lb. of Kentish cherries, and pound them in a mortar so as to break the kernels of them. Take the cherries and kernels, put them into a basin, and add 4 gills of syrup; squeeze 4 lemons in, and add a sufficient quantity of water. Make it to your taste, pass it through a sieve, and it will be fit for use. CHERRY WINE. To make five pints of this wine take 15 pounds of cherries, 2 lbs. of currants, and bruise them together; mix with them two-thirds of the kernels, and put the whole (the cherries, currants, and kernels) into a barrel, with of sugar to every pint of juice. The barrel must be quite full. Cover the barrel with vine leaves, with sand above them, and let it stand till it has done working, which will be in about three weeks; then stop it with a bung, and iu two months' time it may be bottled. CHERVIL is principally used in soups and stuffing, and is generally preserved with other herbs as follows:—Take of sorrel, chervil, beet, purslane, and cucumbers if in season, quanti- ties according to your liking; wash them well, and mince and press them in your hand to squeeze out all the water. Put them into a kettle, with water, some butter, and salt, and boil them till the water is entirely consumed. Take them out, and when cold put them into pots, and cover them with warmed butter. When you want to use these herbs put them into some stock that has very little salt in it. If they are required for a farce or garnish boil them a minute or two in some butter, and thicken them with the yolks of eggs and milk. When so prepared they may be served under hard eggs or broiled fish. For sauce it must be chopped small, boiled in salt and water, and mixed with melted butter. CHERVIL SAUCE. Put a few mushrooms, parsley, chibbal, shallots, two cloves, a bay leaf, and a few tarragon leaves, in some melted butter, and let them soak for some time ; then add a little broth, white wine, pepper, and salt. Reduce it to a proper thickness, but do not skim it. When done put in some chervil, scalded and chopped, and heat it all up to- gether. CHESTNUT. Its wood, if kept dry, is ex tremely durable. This ornament to the country is, at the same time, of great utility for domestic purposes. It excels the oak in two respects, namely, that it grows faster, and that the sap