EME [ 468 ] EMB to 30 drops, in peppermint water, three times a day. Embrocation of opium, compound. Tincture of opium and spirit of sulphuric ether, of each 2 ozs.; spirit of camphor, 2 ozs.: mix. In deep-seated pains in the neighbourhood of the ear this generally relieves sooner than any other application; in toothache it will often give instant ease; in sciatica it is of great benefit; and in painful affections of the muscles it some- times acts as an immediate specific. Embrocation for strains and bruises. Acetated liquor of ammonia, 1 pint; spirits of wine, 3 ozs. Or, camphor, ^ oz.; spirits of wine, | pint; dis- tilled vinegar, 6 ozs. ; water, 3 ozs. Dissolve the camphor in the spirits of wine, and then add the vinegar and water. Embrocation, soap. White hard soap, 3 ozs. ; spirits of wine, f pint; spirit of hartshorn, 4 ozs.; camphor, 1 ounce : as before. EMBROCATION, ROCHE'S. A long celebrated application for the hooping-cough. Mix together olive oil, 2 ozs.; oil of amber, 1 oz.; oil of cloves, 1 drachm. Rub on the chest. EMBROCATION, STIMULATING. Mix olive oil, 3 fluid drachms, with liquor of am- monia, 1 fluid oz. If spirit of hartshorn is used instead of liquor of ammonia it is not so stimulating. Used for rubbing outside the throat when it is sore inside, and over parts affected with rheumatic pains. EMBROIDERY. A work in gold, silver, or silk thread, wrought by the needle upon cloth, stuffs, or muslin, into various figures. In the embroidery of stuffs the work is per- formed in a frame, as the easy manner of work- ing them depends upon the proper expansion of the piece. Muslin is spread upon a pattern, on which* the figures intended to be wrought are delineated. Embroidery on the loom is less tedious than the other method, in which, while the flowers are working, it becomes necessary to count all the threads of the muslin; this latter mode, however, is much richer in points, and is likewise susceptible of greater variety. Cloths which are milled too much will not easily admit of such ornament. The thinnest and finest muslins only are left for this purpose, and are embroidei'ed to the greatest perfection in Saxony. Of late years this work has been attempted in England and Scotland; but it has not yet arrived at that degree of perfection to which it has been carried in France and Ger- many. There are various kinds of embroidery, namely, 1. Embroidery on the stamp, where the figures are raised and rounded, cotton or parch- ment being placed beneath in order to support them. 2. Low embroidery, in which the silver or gold lies low upon the sketch or pattern, and is stitched with silk of the same colour. 3. Giinped embroidery, which is performed either in gold or silver. A design is first made upon the cloth, and then placed on cut vellum, alter which the gold or silver is sewn on with silk thread. 4. Embroidery on both sides, which is thus denominated from its appearing on both sides of the stuff. 5. Plain embroidery, where the figures are flat and even, being totally destitute of orna- ments. We will suppose the embroideress desirous of embellishing a book cover of velvet after the style termed flat embroidery, that is, without shading, save that degree of shadow which may be produced by two shades only, with a darker shade for veining. Having fixed the outline on the velvet, strain it tightly and evenly in an ordinary work frame, with a piece of fine linen tacked over the back. Select two shades of emerald green, one i-ather light, the other three shades darker, with one darker still for the veins, and white for the flowers, all middle size purse silk. Begin at the top or point of the leaf by passing the needle from the under side, taking a stitch each time half the width of the leaf, and slanting. Bring the needle up in the centi'e, and pass it back through the outer edge every stitch, taking care to keep the stitches close together, that the velvet may not be seen through them. In passing the needle from the upper to the under side be careful to place its point some- what under the stitch last made, as that will give a smooth edge, and conceal the ends of the stitches, representing, at the same time, the curvature. Having worked both sides of the leaf, the mid-rib or vein must be produced with the darkest shade thus :—Bring the needle up at the point of the leaf; take a stitch down- wards nearly a quarter of an inch; bring the needle up again about one-eighth of an inch from the last stitch ; pass it backwards about one-third into and under the first. If performed with skill this will have the effect of a small cord. Work the stems of the flowers in the same way with the light shade, making an extra stitch for each of the bells or flowers, which must be worked in the same manner as the leaves. The effect will be very superior if every little bell is slightly raised with soft cotton—say crochet or Moravian cotton—and the stitches of white silk be passed over. The silk should be touched with the fingei'S as little as possible, and kept from curling by holding an ivory mesh under each stitch as it is drawn down. EMERALDS are divided by jewellers into