FOW [ 519 1* FOW garnish the bottom of a dish like a cake cut into seven or eight parts. Make also a round one, which fry, and put in the middle, and the others above. In thickness they require to be about twice the width of the thumb. Cut the insides with a knife to make them hollow, and also a lid to inclose them; but do not make the sides too thin, lest the gi'avy should escape. Having fried and placed them, fill them with a hash or puree of fowl. FOWL A LA DREUX. The fowl being trussed, if you wish to give additional firmness to the skin and flesh have some boiling water ready, then lay hold of the fowl by the saddle, dip the breast in the hot water, and then in cold water. When the fowl is quite cold cut some ham in long squares, lard the breast of the fowl in imitation of a draught board, put it into a stewpan trimmed all round with fat bacon, and moisten with poele. There must be a brisk fire over it, and a slow one under it, as it will be sufBciently done in three quarters of an hour at the most. Dry the bacon with a salamander, glaze of a good colour, and serve with sauce VAllemande. FOWL, DUNELM OF. Stew some mush- rooms very gently for an hour and a half in butter, with mace, salt, and pepper; let them cool, mince them, dust in flour till the butter becomes a roux, and work in by degrees a little cream till it obtains the consistency of a sauce ; simmer and cook it smooth ; mince the meat the same size and quantity of the mush- rooms. FOWL FILLETS. Cut the breasts of three fowls ofi'in fillets; melt some butter in a pan, and arrange them in it; add a little salt, and cover with paper. Cut six pieces from a tongue or ham of the same size, and put them into a stewpan with a little good stock; let them simmer without boiling; toss and turn the fillets, which must be very white ; put in some well-seasoned glaze or strong stock; cut six slices of bread the size and shape of the fillets, and fry them in butter. Dish the fillets en couronne, putting bread, tongue, and fowl alternately. A ragoiit of trufiles, oysters, mush- rooms, tomato, or any other nice thing, may be got ready to put into the sauce to dish in the middle. The thighs may be skinned, boned, larded with truffles, and done as the fillets, and dished over a mushroom, truffle, tomato, cucumber, artichoke, or any other sauce. The back, with the side bones and wings of the fowls, will make a very nice grill or a high- seasoned devil. FOWL, FORCED. Take a large fowl, pick it clean, cut it down the back, and draw it; then take off the skin whole, cut the flesh from the bones, and chop it up with half a pint of oysters, 1 oz. of beef marrow, and a little pepper and salt; mix it up with cream, lay the meat on the bones, draw the skin over it, and sew up the back; cut large thin slices of bacon, lay them over the breast of the fowl, and tie the bacon on with packthread. It will take au hour to roast before a moderate fire. Make a good brown gravy sauce, pour it in the dish, take the bacon off, lay the fowl in the gravy, and serve. Garnish with oysters, mushrooms, or pickles. FOWL EN FRICANDEAU. Cut a fowl in two, and bone it thoroughly; make a force- meat of a sweetbread cut into large dice, a few fat livers, truffles, or mushrooms, or both, chopped parsley, shallots, and scraped bacon, mixed with the yolks of three eggs, pepper, and salt. Fill the fowl with this farce, sew it up, and give it a fry in butter for a moment; then lard it like a fricandeau, and braise it in broth with a few slices of veal and bacon. When done sift and skim the sauce, reduce it to a caramel, and glaze the fowl with it. Serve with whatever sauce you think proper. FOWL, FRICASSEED. Pick, draw, and singe a fowl; cut it in pieces, and soak them for one or two hours in cold water to whiten the meat, and then drain them; put into a sauce- pan a piece of butter and a spoonful of flour; stir it about till the butter is melted, and then moisten it with a glass of water ; add salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, a sprig of parsley, and chives; put in the fowl, and let it stew three quarters of an hour; thicken the sauce by itself with the yolks of three eggs, and add some lemon juice, verjuice, or a dash of vinegar. When two-thii'ds done put in some mushrooms, and add, if you like, some button onions, with the bottoms of artichokes, at the same time that you put in the fowl. A few crayfish may be added, as well as some crusts and cocks' combs, around the dish. To keep the meat white it is necessary to rub it with lemon juice, and cover it during the cooking with some buttered paper placed on a fricassee inside the saucepan. FOWL, FRIED (A lTndienne). Slice some onions, and fry them in lard till they be- come of a nice brown colour, adding a pinch of flour. When the onions are sufiBciently done take them out with the skimmer, and keep them hot. Have ready a fowl cut up as lor a fricassee, and the pieces blanched in boiling water; put the pieces of fowl in the lard in which the onions were fried till they also become of a nice colour; then pour upon them some stock, adding salt, allspice, Cayenne pepper^ and a little turmeric or Indian saffron. When the fowl is done enough put in the fried onions, boil the whole for two or three minutes, and serve, sending up separately a dish of rice d la Creole