BEE [ 103 ] BEE made from malt. Dr. Hare has computed that 5 bushels of potatoes would produce as much wort as 3 bushels of malt. In malt liquors 6 lbs. of sugar is esteemed equal in strength, and 1 lb. of coriander seed, in intoxicating power to 1 bushel of malt. The sugar employed is burnt to colour the beer in- stead of brown malt, but it has been proposed to use roasted coffee for this purpose. It is only necessary to malt one third of the corn, as this portion will convert the other into its own nature during the process. Quassia is employed instead of hops as the bitter, but as this does not precipitate the mucilage, the beer soon grows muddy, unless kept very cool. When strong beer is reduced by adding small beer, publicans usually add molasses to enable it to form a head, and extract of gentian to keep up the flavour.—[Gray.) Heading foe Beer is made of equal weights of alum and copperas. See Ale. Mum is liquor brewed from wheat malt. BEER, ROPINESS IN, usually arises from neglecting to cleanse thoroughly the casks pre- viously to barreling. When it occurs, a handful of bean-flour and half that quantity of salt, mixed together and stirred into the liquor, are said to remove the ill property; bnt we have usually found time alone effected the cure. BEER, SMALL (Excellent) (1). Boil one peck of wheat-bran in 6 gallons of soft water till the bran sinks; strain, and have ready an extract of gentian, which may be put in by taste—those that prefer hops may use them by boiling them in it or by using their extract; when it comes to the proper heat put in 3 lbs. of treacle, and 2 or 3 spoonsful of yeast, according to its strength; whisk the liquor well to melt the treacle, which readily augments the fermenta- tion by the admission of air should the yeast be slow. Any herbs may be introduced into the boiler, antiscorbutic, warming, and invigorating, or such as may be necessary for those who are to use the beer. It must be barreled imme- diately, and when the fermentation ceases, bung it close; it will be ready in a few days. 11 ought to be bottled, or at least part of it, as in hot weather it may get flat or acid. A little carbonate of soda will correct this entirely at the time of drinking. BEER, SMALL (Excellent) (2). A quarter of a bushel of malt, 2 lbs. of treacle, and 4 ozs. of hops. This will make 13 gallons of good beer, which will not cost a penny a quart, and less if gentian be used. This beer will not keep long. If bottled, put a raisin or a bit of sugar into each bottle. Servants do not attend properly to cleaning bottles for small beer, nor to boiling the corks, which is the cause of not only bad beer, but of much loss. BEER, SMALL (Excellent) (3). Take 26 gallons of water, 1 bushel of malt, with 4 lbs. of coarse brown sugar, and 1 lb. of hops. If this is carefully managed it will make the beer as good as if two bushels of malt had been used. This beer will keep well. If in small establishments a cask may not be exactly fitted to these proportions, let the quantities be re- duced. BEER, SMALL (Excellent) (4). Twenty gallons may also be made of good small beer from 1 bushel of malt and | lb. of hops. Gen- tian is more stomachic, less heady, and more economical. Boil the hops in a bag, and they will nearly do again for a fresh brewing. Those who like their beer brown may put in a bit of Spanish liquorice. A gallon of water ought to be allowed for waste, which may be avoided, as it is often occasioned from some small utensil being wanted. BEER, SPRUCE (1). Mix 7 lbs. of molasses in 4 gallons of boiling water and 4 gallons of cold, or water at 60°; put in 3 table-spoonsful of spruce essence; whisk it well with 3 table- spoonsful of yeast; cask or cover it close up with a double blanket; bottle it when the work- ing ceases, and wire or tie it up with pack- thread, and put it in a cool cellar. To obtain Spruce boil the sprigs of Scotch fir BEER, SPRUCE (2). This beverage is an excellent antiscorbutic, and in summer is very refreshing. The best mode of making it is as follows:—Pour 8 gallons of cold water into a barrel, and then add the same quantity of boil- ing water, with 12 lbs. of molasses and about J lb. of the essence of spruce. On its becoming cooler, put in i pint of good ale yeast; stir the whole well, or roll the barrel about, and then leave it with the bung out for two or three days; after which bottle the liquor, and wire the corks for use. If spruce beer is made from the branches or cones, they must be boiled two hours; after which the liquor is to be strained in a barrel, and the molasses and yeast added as already directed. Spruce beer should be bottled in stone bottles, and drank immediately on being opened. BEER, SPRUCE (White) (1), is thus made: —For a cask of 6 gallons mix ^ib. of the essence of spi'uce, 7 lbs. olf loaf sugar, made into a clari- fied syrup, and about 1|- gallon of hot water. When sufficiently stirred and incorporated, put it into the cask, and fill it nearly with cold water; then add about J pint of good yeast; shake the vessel well, and let it work three or four days; after which bung it up. In a few days it may be bottled off, and in about a week more it will be fit for use. To give it transparency, add 1 oz. of isinglass, first dissolved in some of the warm liquor or cider. In proportion to the