coo t 351 ] COO If it is not kept long enough it is hard and tough ; if too long it loses its flavour. It should be hung where it will have a thorough air, and be dried with a clotli night and morning, to keep it from damp and mustiness. Before you dress it wash it well. If it is roasting beef pare off the outside. If you fear meat, &c., will not keep till the time it is wanted par-roast or parboil it. It will then keep a couple of days longer, when it may be dressed in the usual way, only it will be done in rather less time. The cook and the butcher as often lose their credit by meat being dressed too fresh as the fishmonger does by fish that has been kept too long. During the sultry summer months it is almost impossible to procure meat that is not either tough or tainted. The former is as im- proper as the latter for the unbraced stomachs of relaxed valetudinarians, for whom, at this season, poultry, stews, &c., and vegetable soups are the most suitable food, when the digestive organs are debilitated by the extreme heat; and profuse perspiration requires an increase of liquid to restore equilibrium in the constitu- tion. Endeavour to avoid over-dressing roasts and boils, &c.., and over-seasoning soups and sauces with salt, pepper, &c. It is a fault which cainiot be mended. If your roasts, &c., are a little under-done, with the assistance of the stewpan, the gridiron, or the Dutch oven you may soon rectify the mistalce made with the spit or the pot. If ovei'-done the best juices of the meat are evaporated. It will serve merely to distend the stomach, and if the sensation of hunger be removed it is at the price v)f an indigestion. The chief business of cookery is to render food easy of digestion, and to facihtate nutrition. This is most completely accomplished by plain cookery in perfection, that is, neither over nor under-done.—[Cook's Oracle.) COOKIES, CRISP. Five tea-cr,ps of flour, 2 of sugar, 1 of butter, 1 egg, 1 tea-spoonful of pearlash, and 4 table-spoonsful of milk; put 3 table-spoonsful of milk to the sugar and 1 to the pearlash; mix them, and make 18 or 20 cookies. They must not be baked too much. COOKIES, SOFT. Four cups of flour, 2 of sugar, 1^ of butter, 2 eggs, 1 tea-spoonful of pearlash dissolved in 1 table-spoonful of milk, a little nutmeg, and some caraway seeds if liked. COOKING, LOSS CAUSED BY. Whether the heat be directly or indirectly applied there must be a considerable loss in the cooking of animal substances in public institutions, where the allowance of meat is generally weighed out in its raw state, and includes bones, and is served out cooked, and sometimes without bone ; and it is a matter of importance to ascertain, as nearly as possible, their relative proportions. Witli regard to this circumstance much, no doubt, de- pends on the piece of meat to be cooked, the degree of cookery, and the attention bestowed upon it, &c. We have been informed by persons who salt rounds of beef to sell by retail after they are boiled that they are able to get 19 lbs. of cold boiled meat from 25 lbs. of raw; but the meat, it must be confessed, is always under-done. Messrs. Donkin and Gamble boiled in steam 50 lbs. of captain's salt meat. The meat when cold, without the bones, which amounted to 5 lbs. 6 ozs., weighed only 35 lbs. In another experiment 113 lbs. of prime mess beef gave 9 lbs. 10 ozs. of bones, and 47 lbs. 8 ozs. of meat; and in a third 213 lbs. of mess beef gave 13 lbs. 8 ozs. of bones, and 103 lbs. 10 ozs. of meat; or, taking in the aggregate, 372 lbs. of salt beef, including the bones, furnish when boiled 186 lbs. 6 ozs. without bone, being about 50 per cent.; or, disregarding the bone altogether, salt meat loses by boiling about 42'2 per cent. We are indebted to Professor Wallace, of the University of Edinburgh, for the detail of a very accurate and extensive experiment in a pablic establishment, the results of which were that in pieces of 10 lbs. weight each 100 lbs. of beef lost upon an average by boiling 26|- lbs.; by baking, 30 lbs.; legs of mutton by boiling lost 20 lbs. 5 ozs. out of 100 lbs.; and by roasting the shoulder, STl per cent.; the neck, 32 4; and the loin, 35'9. Hence, generally speaking, mutton by boiling loses about one fifth of its original Aveight, and beef about one-fourth. Again, mutton and beef lose by roasting about one-third of their original weight. In roasting the loss arises from the melting out of the fat and tlie evaporating of the water, but the nutritious matter remains condensed in the cooked solid ; but in boiling the loss is occasioned partly by the fat melted out, but chiefly from gelatine and osmazone dissolved in the water in which the meat is boiled. There is, therefore, a real loss of nourishment unless the broth be used, when tin's mode of cooking becomes the most profitable, as well as the most economical. ' Vegetable substances are most commonly boiled or baked ; or, if fried or roasted, there is always much water present, which prevents the greater action of the fire from penetrating below the surface. COOL TANKAPtD. A bottle of ale, a gill of white wine, a glass of brandy, as nmch syrup of orange flov-er or capillaire as will sweeten it, a sprig or two of balm or burnet, and a warm toast well rubbed with nutmeg. Nutmeg may also be grated over it. It ought to be made a