[ 156 I BEE BRE the faggots. One hour will bring a good oven to that state which will raise the bread to its height, and then heat the loaf to its centre with- out charring the crust; therefore it may be laid down as a good general rule that the fire should be kindled at the same time that the dough is made up. There is d.n art of heating an oven with pre- cision, which can only be acquired by observa- tion and practice, unless, indeed, it happen that the operator, as is sometimes the case, possess a sort of intuitive perception of the effects of fire. A criterion of a well-heated oven used to be the whiteness of a stone, called technically the baker, which formerly was built into the wall towards the further end of the oven. These stones are now rarely admitted; therefore a judgment must be formed by the clearness of the bricks of the sides and arch, and by the lively sparkling of the embers. The formet criterion proves that the bricks have received enough of body heat to consume that black car- bonaceous coating which the smoke conimuni- cates to them at the early stage of fire; the second shows that the principle of combustion is in full activity, and not rendered inert by a cold surface either at the top, bottom, or sides. Finally, if the brickwork be hot enough, and the point of a long stake be rubbed forcibly over any part of it, so as for the moment to make a black trace of charcoal, this trace will be burnt off, and the bricks left clear in a second of time. We cannot particularise further now, therefore suffice it to observe that the dough being com- pletely up, and the oven hot nearly together, the former must be cut, and slightly pressed, not forcibly kneaded, and rolled into the form of loaves, which are to be dusted over with flour one by one, while another person draws out the hot embers with a hook of iron fixed at the end of a long pole, and cleans the bottom of the oven with a wet mop made of long shreds of woollen cloth or coarse sacking. The loaves are then placed side by side in the oven by means of an instrument called a baking-peel, which consists of a flat beech board fixed to a long handle. This board, as well as the loaves, should be dredged with flour, so as absolutely to prevent adhesion of the dough to the board of the peel. When the loaves are in the oven the door must be securely closed, and if the fire have been well managed, the bread will be regularly baked in an hour and a half or two hours, according to the size of the loaves. If an iron oven, such as is usually attached to a kitchen-range, be employed, it should have tiles put upon the bottom to place the loaves upon, as it keeps the underneath part of the loaves from burning. If leaven be employed instead of yeast it should, on the preceding evening, be deprived of its hard crust, and dissolved with a little, scarcely milk- warm, water; then carefully mixed with about a third part of the flour to be used for baking, and kneaded into a soft dough by adding more tepid water. A small quantity of flour is put on the top; and, thus prepared, it will be neces- sary to cover the trough with blankets, and suifer it to stand in a moderately-warm place till the following morning that it may rise and duly ferment. The I'eniainiug two-thirds of the flour mUst then be added, with a proportionate quantity of lukewarm water, and the whole kneaded into such an elastic dough as will draw into strings without breaking, and not adhere to the fingers. In this state it is again covered, and allowed to stand while preparations are making in the oven, and not disturbed till it begins gently to rise, when it should be formed into loaves.—(r/tomsou's Vegetable Chemistry. Magazine of Domestic Economy.) In times of scarcity various additions have been made to the flour. Turnips have been so employed. The process is to put the turnips into a kettle over a slow fire till they become soft; they are then taken out, squeezed, and drained as dry as possible, and afterwards mashed and mixed with an equal weight of flour, and kneaded with yeast, salt, and a little warm water. The following is another method of making bread of turnips which deserves to be recom- mended for its cheapness :—Wash cleau, pare, and afterwards boil a number of turnips till they become soft enough to mash; press the greatest part of the water out of them, then mix them with an equal weight of wheat-meal, make the dough in the usual manner with yeast, &c. It will rise well in the trough, and, after being well kneaded, may be formed into loaves, and put into the oven. Bread prepared in this man- ner has a peculiar sweetish taste, which is by no means disagreeable. It is as light and white as wheaten, and should be kept about twelve hours before it is cut, when the smell and taste of the turnip will scarcely be perceptible. Potatoes have also been made into bread by different processes. The simplest is to choose the large mealy sort, boil them as for eating, then peel and mash them veiy fine, without adding any water. Two parts of wheat-flour are added to one of potatoes, and a little more yeast than usual. The whole mass is to be kneaded mto dough, and allowed to stand a proper time to rise and ferment before it is put into the oven. Bread thus prepared is good and wholesome; and if bakers were to make use oi no worse in- gredients than this nutritive root they might be justified, in times of scarcity, provided they sold it at a moderate price, and under proper limita- tions. An c.'ccellent method of maiung bread of rice