'[ 5-20 ] row FOW FOWL, GAME-FLAVOURED. Take a rabbit that has been kept a long time, and cut the meat of it into thin slices ; lay them on a dish, and season them with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, ciboule, shallots, and a little sweet oil. Split a fowl at the back, bone it all to the legs and wings, and stuff it with this ; then sew it up, and give it its natural form ; braise it with slices of veal and ham, covered over with slices of bacon, and soak it about a quarter of an hour; then add a glass of white wine, a little broth, a bundle of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. When done sift and skim the sauce, add a little cullis, and serve it over the fowl. FOWL GELATINE. Draw and singe a fowl, and bone it by splitting, commencing at the back; leave as little meat as possible on the carcass. The wings having been taken off pre- viously, do not injure the skin, which must remain upon the pieces. Make a forcemeat of veal by chopping up | lb. of fillet, and separately as much bacon and tender fresh pork; mix them, and add some onion and parsley chopped finely, with pepper, salt, spice, and an egg well beaten ; chop up the whole again in order to mix them well together. The fowl being boned and laid upon the table, cover it with a layer of forcemeat, then thin slices of fillet of veal, some pieces of fowl, and some slices of tongue d Vecarlate, which may be bought at the pork butcher's ; then a layer of veal forcemeat, some sliced truffles, a layer of slices of ham, and so on until the fowl is filled ; then tie up the fowl, giving it as natural a form as possible ; wrap it in a cloth, and tie it up ; place it in a dauhiere, with plenty of water, a large knuckle of veal, half a calf's foot, salt, pepper, large onions, three carrots, bacon, two bay leaves, two cloves, and a little thyme. Let it stew six houis, untie it when almost cold, take off the jelly, clarify it, and let it also cool to serve round the gelatine. FOWL, GLAZED. This is braised and glazed in the same way as Fowl en Fkicandeau, only with this difference, that it is done without stuffing. Serve with its own sauce, or any other you like better. FOWL WITH ITS OWN GRAVY. Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, lard it quite through with bacon, ham, and parsley; put it in a pan, with a little butter, two or three slices of peeled lemon, a bundle of sweet herbs, three cloves, sliced onions, 'carrots, pepper, salt, a little stock, and a glass of white wine; stew them gently till they are done, skim and strain the sauce, and serve it with the fowl. FOWL, HASHED. Cut a fowl into pieces, and put them into some gravy, with a little cream, catsup, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, a few oysters , and their liquor, and a piece of butter mixed with flour; keep stirring until the butter is melted, lay sippets in a dish, put in the hash, and serve. FOWL, HEDGEHOG. Make a farce with the liver chopped, scraped bacon, parsley, shallots, pepper, and salt, and stuff a fowl with it; truss it the same as for roasting, give it a few turns over the fire in butter, lard it closely with slices of ham and pieces of truffle to stick pretty far out, and roast it, basting often with good oil. Serve with consomme, cullis sauce, and a little lemon juice. FOWL, HODGEPODGE OF. Cut a fowl into quarters, and braise them with pickled pork; make a good ragout with small onions, all sorts of roots cut differently, and the braised pork; intermix all well on a dish, and serve with a thick cullis sauce. FOWL A LA HOLLANDAISE. Make a forcemeat of grated bread, half its quantity of minced suet, an onion, or a few oysters, and some boiled parsley; season with pepper, salt, and gi'ated lemon-peel, and an egg beaten up to bind it. Bone the breast of a good-sized young fowl, put in the forcemeat, cover the fowl with a piece of white paper buttered, and roast it rather more than half an hour. Have ready a thick batter made of flour, milk, and eggs; take off the paper, and pour some of the batter over the fowl. As soon as it becomes dry add more, and do this till it is all crusted over, and of a nice brown colour. Serve it with melted butter and lemon pickle, or a thickened brown gravy. FOWL IN JELLY. Bone the bird, and fill it with forcemeat, in which are mushrooms ; lard it with fat bacon, tie it up, and stew it in strong gravy till a skewer may be passed through it easily. When cold take off the fat, and serve with a savory jelly round it. FOWL AS A LARGE SAUSAGE. Cut a fowl in two, bone it, and flatten the meat with a roller; put some forcemeat upon each half, made of breast of fowl roasted, bread crumbs soaked in cream, scraped bacon, udder, parsley, shallots, salt, and fine spices, mixed with the yolks of three eggs; tie up the pieces in the form of large sausages, wrap them in slices of bacon, and then in pieces of linen cloth; braise them in broth, with a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, whole pepper, salt, sliced onions, and carrots. When they are done untie the cloth, take off the bacon, squeeze them gently between a cloth to press out the fat, and serve with what sauee you choose. FOWL WITH OLIVES. Truss and dress a fowl the same as Fowl k la Dredx ; then take some olives, which should be blanched till they are no longer briny, and boil them in thin EspagnoU; skim the sauce, add a little