AEQ r 43 ] acid. The following, however, are the regular recipes for making it. Take rosemary leaves and marjoram leaves, both dried, of each 1 oz.; of lavender flowers, dried, H oz.; cloves, bruised, 1 drachm ; strong acetic acid, 1^ pint. Mix them together, and let them remain seven days ; strain ; press the leaves very strongly; filter through blotting-paper. Or, to strongest acetic acid, 1 pint, add 2 ozs. of camphor, I drachm of oil of lavender, 20 drops oil of cinnamon, 80 drops oil of cloves, and 30 drops oil of rose- mary. Mix, let it stand for twenty-four hours, and strain through blotting-paper. ARQUEBUSADE WATER. Take dried mint and dried angelica tops, of each ^ lb.; dried wormwood, ^ lb.; angelica seeds, 2-^- ozs.; oil of juniper, J drachm; spirit of rosemary, 2 pints; rectified spirit, 2^ gallons; water, 2 gallons. Mix and distil over three gallons. This has long been celebrated as beneficial for bathing bruises, and for washing ulcers and wounds. ARRACK. Arrack, the East Indian name for all ardent spirits. It is chiefly distilled at Goa, from the fermented juice of the cocoa-nut, called toddy. At Batavia, it is a distillation from the fermentation of rice and sugar; but they use copper stills, while at Goa they make a very superior and strong article from toddy in stills of earthenware. China arrack is obtained from rice or millet. ARRACK, MOCK. Dissolve 2 scruples of flowers of benzoin in 1 quart of good rum, and it will immediately impart to it the inviting fragrance of Vauxhall nectar; so called because VauxhalL Gardens were once celebrated for arrack punch. ARROWROOT. Arrowroot is starch, manu- factured from the root of a plant, the Maranta arundinacea, cultivated in gardens in the East and West Indies. It is about two feet in height. The roots are dug when a year old, well washed, and beaten in deep wooden mortars till reduced to a milky pulp. This is washed again in clear water, and the fibrous parts carefully separated. It is next passed through a sieve, and suffered to stand till the starch has settled. The water is then drawn off, and the white residue is again washed ; after which the pulp, when dried in the sun, is found to be pure starch, which, re- duced to a powder, is arrowroot. No vegetable, except salep or orchis-root, yields so large a quantity of mucilage. As an article of diet it is invaluable, especially in bowel complaints. The purest is the Antigua and Jamaica or Ber- muda. Too much that is sold is the fecula of potatoes, 100 lbs of which yield 10 lbs. of what is called ari'owroot. In no article of diet have greater impositions been practised than in arrowroot. The farina of mealy potatoes has been very generally sold for it, or used to adulterate it. The colour of the potato-starch is more white than that of the best arrowroot of the West Indies, and with boiling water it forms a good jelly; but in the course of twelve hours it becomes nearly as thin as milk, and sour. Hence the potato- flour is an uidiealthy article of diet for infants and invalids. The arrowroot of Antigua appears to be superior to that of Jamaica. The jelly it forms with boiling water continues firm for three or four days, and does not become sour for several days. Of this arrowroot there are two or three qualities, which depend upon the num- ber of washings to which it has been subjected for the purpose of bleaching it. When well washed with good water it is nearly as white as the potato-starch; but by much washing its glutinous quality is diminished, and it is conse- quently less nutritious. The second quality, which is equally pure, although not so white, affords the strongest jelly, and therefore, as a food for children, should be preferred. ARROWROOT: To Prepare (1). Put a dessert-spoonful of the powder into a basin, and mix with it as much cold new milk as will form a paste. Pour thereon ^ pint of milk, scalding hot, and stir it well to keep it smooth. Set it on the fire till it is ready to boil, take it off, pour it into a basin and let it cool. ARROWROOT: To Prepare (2). Mix with 2 or 3 table-spoonsful of arrowroot ^ pint of cold water; let it stand for nearly a quarter of an hour; pour off the water, and stir in some pounded sugar ; boil 1 pint of milk, and pour it gradually upon the arrowroot, stirring it one way all the time. Or it may be made with water in which lemon-peel has been boiled, and then a glass of port or white wine, and a little nutmeg stirred into it. ARROWROOT BLANC-MANGE (1). Take a tea-cupful of arrowroot to a pint of milk; boil the milk with 12 sweet and 6 bitter almonds, blanched and pounded ; sweeten with loaf sugar, and strain it; break the arrowroot with a little of the milk as smooth as possible ; pour the boiling milk on it by degrees, stirring all the while ; put it back into the pan ; let it boil a few minutes, still stirring; dip the shape in cold water before you put it in, and turn it out when cold. ARROWROOT BLANC-MANGE (2). Mix i pint of cold water with 2 ozs. of arrowroot; let it settle for fifteen minutes ; pour off the water, and add a table-spoonful of laurel water and a little sugar. Sweeten 1 quart of new milk ; boil it with a little cinnamon and half the peel of a lemon ; pick out the cinnamon and lemon, and pour the boiling milk upon the arrowroot, stirring it all the time. Put it into 6 mould, and tuna it out on the following day-