COI COI [ 338 ] a sort of merchandise, which every one is at liberty to sell or export after paying the duty on exportation. These in general, but more particularly the 2-dahler pieces, are called plates. Plott, a silver coin formerly used in Sweden, J of the rix-doUar, of the value of Is. 6d. ster- ling. Poltin, Poltina, Popoltin, Eussian silver coins of 50 and 25 kopeks, the half and quarter ruble. The poltin of the Empress Anne was of the value of Is. 9d.; that of Elizabeth, Is. lOd.; of Catha- rine II., Is. 7^d.; of Paul, Is. T^d.; of Alex- ander, Is. 7d. The halves in proportion. Polturat, a coin of Hungary, which, with the groschels and pfennigs, sometimes contains a little silver, and sometimes consists entirely of copper. PolushJca, a copper coin of Eussia, a quarter kopek. Quadruple, the doubloon of 8 escudos, or qua- druple pistole of Spain. Its value in English gold coin has been stated to be a63 4s. O^i. Quattrino, a copper coin in Italy of 4 denari di lira. At Eorae 5 quattrini make 1 paolo. Hagusina. See Talaro. Hathsprcesentger, a silver coin of Aix-la-Cha- pelle, double, single, and half, of 32, 16, and 8 marks, value Is. 4^d., 8d., and 4d. Ree, a Portuguese money of account. The gold milree (or piece of 1000 rees), which was coined for the African colonies in 1755, was of the value of 3s. 2^d.; hut the milree is gene- rally valued at about 5s. Real. There are three small Spanish silver coins called reals, namely, the real of Mexican plate, the real of provincial plate, and the real vellon; the two former are worth about 5d., the real vellon 2|d. sterling. Rix-dollar (a corruption of the German Reichs- thaler), a money of account and silver coin in Holland, Germany, Denmark, and Sweden. At Amsterdam a rix-dollar is worth 2^ gilders, 50 stivers, or 800 pfennigs, equal to 8s. 4d. Flemish. In Germany the rix-dollar is worth 2 florins. The assay varies, but the general value, English, is 4s. 2d. In 1813 a new mone- tary system was introduced into Denmark. Two of the new rigsbank dollars equal one of the old specie dollars, and the new dollar is divided into 6 marks of 16 skillings each: its value is about 2s. 3Id. Roubbie, a Turkish gold coin, the third of the sequin, which is called mahbub. Roup, a Turkish silver coin of 10 paras. Ruble or Rouble, a money of account and a platinum and silver coin in Russia. The plati- num coins are a six-rouble piece, value 18s. 6d., and a three-rouble piece, of 9s. 3d. Of the silver roubles there is the old rouble before 1763, worth 3s. 6d.; the new rouble, since 1763, worth 33. Id.; with the halves of each in the same proportions. Rundstyck, a Swedish money of account and copper coin of 1 ore koppar; there are also half-run dstycken. Rupee, a money of account and silver coin in the East Indies. The coins, which were formerly struck at the Calcutta mint, were sicca rupees, also called silver rupees, and gold mohurs, some- times called gold rupees: 16 of the former, by regulation, were to pass for one of the latter. The silver rupee had its half. Kelly says, " The old Bombay rupee was the same as that formerly coined at Surat under the mogul; it weighed 178 314 English grains, and contained 1-24 per cent, of alloy. By an agreement of the English government with the nabob of Surat the rupees coined by both were to circulate at an equal value; and they mutually pledged themselves to keep up the coin to its exact standard of weight and fineness. The nabob's rupees, how- ever, were soon after found to contain 10, 12, and even 15 per cent, of alloy, in consequence of which most of the Bombay rupees were melted down and re-coined at Surat. The coinage of silver in the Bombay mint was suspended for twenty years, and the Surat rupees were the only ones seen in circulation. At length, in 1800, the Company ordered the Surat rupee to be struck at Bombay, and since that period the rupees of both places have been kept at an equal value, weighing 179 English grains, and valued at 2s. 3d. In the Company's financial accounts submitted to Parliament the Bombay rupee is reckoned at this value, and there it bears a batta of 16 per cent, against current rupees." Kelly, "Universal Cambist," 2nd edit., 4to., 1821, vol. i., p. 170, gives a large list of rupees, with their assay and value in sterling, varying from Is. lOd. to 2s. Ofd. The rupee of Persia is a piece of 10 mamoodies. Ruspono, a gold coin of Tuscany, a piece of 3 sequins, weighing 8 denari 21 grani, Florence weight, and passing for 40 lire or 60 paoli. Value in sterling, £1 8s. 5id. Ryder or Ruyder, called also Standpenning, a gold coin of Holland. By a regulation of 1749 its value was fixed at 14 florins. Value £\ 4s. lOd. Ryksort, a Danish silver coin at 24 skillings. Schilling or Skilling, also called Shilling and Escalin, a money of account and copper or base silver coin in several parts of Germany, at 1^ pfennigs. Schuit, a silver ingot used as money in Japan. It is of the value of £1 5s. 3d. Scudino, a gold coin of Modena of 9 lire. Scudo, a money of account and a silver coin in many parts of Italy, at Sicily, and Malta. The scudo of Eom.e is worth 4s. 4d.