BAT BAT c C 76 ] Veniences known to occur after such a prema- ture step. People, therefore, of weak habits should stay until the digestion of their first meal is nearly perfected before they venture into the water. Bathing Dresses are too well known to need any description of them here ; they generally consist of porous flannel, open in front like a wrapper, with short, wide sleeves, that the water may come in contact with every part of the body as speedily as possible. To convalescents one plunge, or two at the utmost, is sufficient; after which they should dry and dress as speedily as possible. On coming out of the water, particularly after sea bathing, where the air is keen and sharp, although the heat of the water is more uniform than in rivers, should chilliness or trembling come on, a small quantity of weak brandy and water, to which a few drops of the compound spirit of lavender may be added, will be found to be the best restorative, using a gentle de- gree of exercise. Other means may be used should these prove insufficient, such as putting the patient to bed, and procui'ing warmth, &c. The pleasing glow of heat diffused over the body after cold bathing is a proof that it may be con- tinued with benefit. In the " EncyclopaBdia," published by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, we have the following excellent remarks upon each description of bathing. The common division is into cold and warm; but various subdivisions are formed, marked by a certain range of temperature, which are designated:— 1. The cold bath from . . . 40° to 65° 2. The cool „ . . . C5 )> 75 8. The temperate „ . . . 75 )» 85 4. The tepid . . . 85 » 93 6. The warm bath „ . . . 93 » 98 6. Tlie hot bath „ . . . 98 113 The Cold Bath we shall treat of first as applied to the whole surface of the body. A healthy person upon entering a cold bath experiences a sensation of cold, followed by slight shuddering, and, if the immersion has been sudden, a peculiar impression on the nervous system, called a shock. The skin be- comes cooler and paler, the respiration hurried and irregular, the action of the kidneys increases, and the bladder contracts. In a few moments the colour and warmth return to the sldn and a glow is felt, especially if assisted by rubbing the surface. If the person remain more than five or ten minutes in the bath, the glow dis- appears and paleness returns, which again gives place, though less quickly and perfectly, to a renewed glow. During the existence of the primary action of the cold, the bulk of the whole body, but especially of the more con- tractile parts, diminishes. Should the stay in the water be greatly prolonged, no reaction ensues, but a general feeling of chilliness prevails, with quick, feeble pulse, convulsive breathing, cramps of the limbs, or fainting. If the person quit the bath after the few first minutes, as in prudence he should, the blood returns to the surface, accompanied with a sensation of pricking, itching, and sometimes throbbing of the arteries; the elasticity of the muscles being increased, more animal power is felt, accompanied with a general feeling of enjoyment. Very young or feeble individuals are either incapable of bearing the shock, or the reaction is so slight that they cannot endure to stay in the bath beyond a very short time. If they unwisely stay or are held in the bath longer than one or two minutes, the heat never regains its proper height, the extremities remain con- tracted, and they, as well as the lips, nose, &c., are of a livid hue. In such cases either artificial means must be used to bring about reaction, or the bath must be relinquished, as improper for such persons, as we shall show at a future part of our observations. The phenomena just described generally ac- company cold bathing; and it is clear that we can recognise in them a series of three or even four distinct actions; namely, 1st. The shock; 2nd. The cooling effect; 3rd. The contraction or astringent effect; and, 4th. The reaction. Cold bathing may be employed, therefore, in such a way as to ensure the predominance of one action over any of the rest, according to circumstances, where all are not desired. They vary with the degree of cold and the suddenness of the application, as well as from the body being plunged into the water, or the water dashed against the body. Where the shock, as a stimulus to the nervous system, is desired, the water should be very cold, and, where prac- ticable, should be dashed against the body, or, if the contrary, the stay in the bath should be momentary. This mode of using it may be either general or local. It has been employed generally, that is, the whole body exposed to the action of the water, in mania, with occasional success, and in the early stage of the common continued fever (under certain regulations, for which see Currie's "Medical Reports"), some- times with great success, cutting short the train of morbid actions which constitute the fever. It has been employed, also, in nervous affections, accompanied with a convulsive action, or deficient action of the muscular system, as in hysteria, in lock-jaw (see paper by Dr. Wright, " London Medical Observations and Inquiries," vol.yi., p. 143). In some cases of obstinate constipation dashing cold water on the person, or the cold