BOM DOM be taken. If a dischai'ged servant makes a claim for wages already paid, and if they have been paid by the master personally without a proper receipt, he could not defeat the claim. The term "a month's warning " or " a month's wages " does not entitle the servant to a month's wages when he is dismissed for improper con- duct. It may be difficult to give an accurate definition of the nature of such misconduct as would justify the discharge without the month's wages; but there can he no doubt that in- solence, disobedience of legitimate orders, di'unkenness, dishonesty, immoral conduct, gross neglect of duty, or 'violent temper, would dis- entitle the servant to his claim to a month's wages. On the other hand, occasional careless- ness, forgetfulness, inattention, untidiness, ill health, indifferent or disobliging temper, would not be a forfeiture of the wages. A servant discharged for such gross miscon- duct, strictly speaking, not only forfeits the month's wages, but also his accruing wages ; but it is usual to pay him for the actual time of service. A servant has no right to his livery on his dismissal, either by warning or otherwise ; if, however, he has been permitted to keep his old livery when his new one becomes due, this would be considei'ed as evidence of an agree- ment to that effect, and the master could not compel the servant to give up an old livery in his possession at the time of his discharge, although he might that of the current half year. The custom of giving the month's warning or the month's wages only applies to the hiring of menial or domestic servants, so that when the hiring of a clerk, tutor, governess, traveller, bailiff, &c., is by the year, without any stipulation as to the mode of putting an end to the contract, the party hired has a right to continue in the ser- vice for the whole current yeai-, provided he conducts himself properly, and if discharged without reasonable cause might claim the whole year's salary, although dismissed before the ter- mination of it; and, on the other hand, if he leaves the service without reasonable cause, he would forfeit all claim to remuneration for such portion of the year as he may have been actually in the service. The same principle would apply when the salary is payable half-yearly or quar- terly, so far as regards the right to, or forfeiture of, the current salary. In such cases it is very important to reduce to writing the express terms of the contract, to enable either party to put an end to the service on a reasonable notice. Most people are very indulgent in giving the characters of servants ; we are unwilling to de- prive them of that on which their livelihood depends; we recollect they have many trials and temjjtsttions; that faults may be corrected; that they have no means of compelling their masters to give a character at all; we should, therefore, certainly not exaggerate their fail- ings, while at the same time the truth should not be concealed. If we do err on this point we err on the right side. It is, however, an ill-judged lenity to over- look too often a fault that, if repeated, leads to a habit. Take, for instance, drunkenness, cer- tainly not an uncommon, and decidedly one of the most difficult habits to overcome. It is surely a greater act of kindness to discharge the servant on the first or second accusation than to allow the habit to be formed, by which the character for sobriety is lost. No action will lie against the master for giving a bad character of a servant, even although it be a false one, unless express malice be proved. The giving a character to one who asks for it is in the nature of a privileged com- munication. It is both sought and given for a legitimate purpose; it is intended to be con- fidential, and will be assumed to be given bona fide, and without malice. Few would venture to give the true character of a bad servant if he might be called upon in court to prove his statement. It is only when the character is false and maliciously given that the party is liable to an action. It would be extremely difficult to prove ex- press malice ; but the giving a bad character of a servant to a person about to engage him, who has not applied for any character at all, might be considered as sufficient proof of malice. Such a voluntary and uncalled-for interference would certainly, unless explained, justify sueh an inference. Many persons make it a rule never to take-a written character, or to give a second character of the same servant. It is easy to lay down general rules when a strict adherence to them does not affect ourselves; but there may be many instances where the refusal to give a second character might be highly prejudicial to a good servant; and the objection to take a written character, when its truth and authen- ticity are undoubted, would be equally absurd.' A written character should certainly not be given to the servant hiniself unless under very peculiar circumstances, as it might be misap- plied, and in general the same object is ob- tained by sending the written character to the person applying; but a strict adherence to this rule would sometimes be a hardship, as, for in- stance, when a master is going abroad for a long period, and discharges a good servant for no fault. Liability of masters for the acts of their ser- vants. The master is liable for any damage