CHI [ 297 ] CHI the grate and that of the chimney. If the grate be of the common form the sides should be filled lip with brickwork, and faced with Dutch tiles. By this construction the air that passes behind the back of the grate will impel the smoke with an increased velocity, and thus prevent it from bwrsting into the room. Smoky chimneys are frequently occasioned by their being so very narrow as scarcely to admit of sweeping them. This evil may be remedied by adopting the following mode, which has been used for time immemorial in Edinburgh, Glasgow, and other cities in the north, and which effectually answers the end intended. Procure a rope for the pur- pose twice the length of the height of the chim- ney, to the middle of which is to be tied a bush (of broom, furze, &c.), sufficiently large to fill the chimney. Put one end of the rope down the whole passage, and, if tliere be any windings in it a bullet or round stone is to be tied to the extremity of the rope, and the wood end of the bush introduced after the rope lias descended into the chamber, where a person must pull it downward. By the elasticity of its twigs the bush sweeps the sides of the chimney as it de- scends, and carries the soot with it. Should it be necessary for the man at the top, who has hold of the other end of the rope, to draw the bush up again, the person below must turn the latter, so as to send the wood end uppermost, before he gives notice to the assistant at the top to pull it upwards. Chimneys thus cleaned never require one-tenth part of the repairs ren- dered necessary where they are swept by chil- dren ; for, as these are obliged to work them- selves up by pressing their knees and feet on one side and their backs on the other, they not unfrequently force out the bricks that divide the chimneys. This is the chief cause why, in aiany houses of the metropolis, a fire in one apartment always fills the adjoining ones with smoke, and sometimes even the neighbouring house. Whole buildings have often been burnt down from this concealed cause, as a foul chim- ney, taking fire, communicates it by these aper- tures to empty apartments, or to such as were filled with lumber, and in which it was thought unnecessary to make any search after the fire liad been extinguished in the chimney where it first began. CHIMNEY ON FIRE. To extinguish this speedily throw two or three handsful of common salt, or one handful of flowers of sulphur, on to the fire in the grate, and keep the air from entering the fireplace as much as possible by closing the doors and windows of the room, and by holding a piece of carpet before the entrance to the chimney. The more effectually you can prevent the access of air from below, the sooner the fire in the chimney will go out. Stopping the top of the chimney is not so effective—air does not come down to the fire. CHINA : To Clean. The best material for cleaning either porcelain or glass ware is fullers' earth; but it must be beaten into a fine powder, and carefully cleared from all rough or hard particles which might endanger the polish of the brilliant surface. Soft soap will do as well as fullers' earth. For mending broken china see Cement. CHINA ALE. To 6 gallons of ale made of malt add J pint of china root thinly sliced, and the same quantity of coriander seeds bruised; hang this in a tiffany or coarse linen bag in the vessel till it has done working, and let it stand a fortnight before it is bottled. CHINA CHILD. Mince 1 pint basin of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and some of the fat; put 2 onions, 1 lettuce, 1 pint of green peas, 1 tea-spoonful of pepper, 4 spoonsful of water, and 2 or 3 ozs. of clarified butter into a stewpan closely covered; simmer two hours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If Cayenne is approved add a little. CHINCO'UGH. See Cough, Hooping. CHINE. This is a thick slice cut out of the back of a large fatted hog. It is salted, and usually served with turkey. CHINESE TEMPLE. Having boiled 1 oz. of double-refined sugar with | oz. of butter and a little water, set it by till cold, and then add to it an egg well beaten. With this make 4 ozs. of flour into a very stiff paste, roll it out as thinly as possible, lay it in a set of tins the form of a temple, and bake them in a slow oven. When cold take the paste from the tins, and join each piece together according to the proper forms with isinglass and water. The lower part, of course, ought to be stronger than the top, in order that it may sustain the weight of the whole. The pieces also must be cut as exactly as possible to the shape of the tins. CHING'S WORM LOZENGES. These consist of yellow and brown lozenges; the former are taken in the evening, the latter the suc- ceeding morning. The Yellow Lozenges. Saffron, J oz.; water, ^ pint. Boil and strain. Add calomel, ^ lb.; white sugar, ]41bs.; mucilage of traga canth as much as may be sufficient to make a mass, which roll out of an exact thickness, so that each lozenge may contain one grain of calomel. The Brown Lozenges. Calomel, 7 ozs. ; resin of jalap, lbs.; white sugar, 9 lbs.; and mucilage of tragacanth enough to make a paste. Each lozenge should contain half a grain of calomel. CHINTZ is a printed calico, having in its pattern at least five colours. Chintz furnilure