CHI [ 294 ] CHI child at the breast be repeatedly attached with the gripes and falls away, change the diet from inilli to one consisting of broths, beef tea, and light puddings; and to aid in preventing a re- turn of the gripes exercise the child well in the o])en air. In this case it will be proper, also, for the mother to live chiefly upon animal food. If this should not be effectual apply for medical assistance. In general the use of spices in children's food is to be reprobated, and in ill- ness the diet of all children should be as light as possible. In fever drinks containing nourish- ment, such as barley water, toast and water, thin mpioca, and rice water will be proper, taken cold in summer and warm in winter. In obsti- nate purgings children must have rice, arrow- root, and also hartshorn shavings boiled in beef tea, or beef tea thickened with baked flour, or sago and thick milk; and much good has been derived from putting a flannel roller round the body when the purging resists these means. Dress and dressing. Maxim: " Over clothing and clothing improperly make a child tender and subject to cold,"—A child requires fewer clothes than a grown-up person; a short shift and a flannel waistcoat tied behind, with a short petticoat sewed to it, and a short gown, rather stouter in winter than in summer, are all the body dress that a child requires; more clothes only make it tender, chilly, and subject to colds, unless it is weakly, and then a flannel shirt is sometimes useful. Until an infant reaches the seventh or eighth month it is best without shoes or stockings; neither can its petticoats be too short. The whole dress of children, whatever may be their age, should be perfectly loose and easy, so as to allow of free motion to the limbs. It is highly beneficial to expose the legs, arms, and breasts of healthy children to the open air. Exercise and sleep. Maxim: " Never prevent a child from attempting to walk, however young it may be."—When a child seeks to put its feet upon the ground let it do so, but do not force it to walk. This effort at exeicise is both plea- sant and serviceable to a child; it is proper to encourage it in this, and as it grows up regu- larly to exercise, but to avoid fatiguing it. Amuse and employ a child, but never suffer it to be still when it is right for it to be in motion and actively employed. In exercising any child, however, avoid fatiguing it, and particularly a sickly one. A weakly child ought not to be al- lowed to stand or walk long together; therefore it should be alternately carried in the arms, drawn in a vehicle, and invited to walk. The practice of placing children on the damp ground after fatiguing them with long walks cannot be too much reprobated. Until the third year most children require an hour's sleep in the middle of the day, after which they should be invarial^ly exercised till they begin to be tired, and may be put to rest at seven o'clock. In summer let them rise at six, and in winter at seven. Air. Maxim.: " It is indispensably requisite to bear without inconvenience the vicissitudes of the atmosphere."—A free and continued ex- posure to the open air is of the utmost conse- quence to children's health; the sooner infants are taken into it the faster they will thrive. In the air they grow up strong, less subject co colds, disordered bowels, convulsions, and rickets —complaints so frequent among those children who are reared in nurseries. Not only the face, but the legs, thighs, and arms should be freely exposed to the air. Even in confined streets in the populous districts of the metropolis it is of infinite service to keep the children out of doors, and the poor should set open the bed- room windows and doors of their habitations. Those children who have been properly exposed to the air from birlh may be safely exercised in it, if healthy, at all seasons. Cold bath and bathing. Maxim: " Frequent bathing is conducive to cleanliness; it imparts vigour to the muscles and nerves, and promotes alacrity and cheerfulness of mind."—In a striking manner does the cold bath preserve and promote the health of the infant race. It is proper to begin the practice of dipping in warm weather, and to continue it through every season after. The cold bath is ^aot only a serviceable applica- tion to children in health, but to those that are sickly also, especially the rickety. It may be resorted to thrice a week. A sudden dip, twice repeated each time of using the bath, will be sufficient. The more delicate and weakly re- quire the chill to be taken off the water the first and second time of going into it. If the shock of a cold bath appears too powerful for the constitution, partial bathing with salt water, or wiping the body with a sponge dipped in it, may be substituted, and is often highly useful. Sea bathing is preferred for those having the evil, that is, scrofula. Immediately after bathing let the child be wrapped in a blanket and well dried, and if it be disposed to sleep allow it to do so ; if not, it may be dressed and suffered to run about. Weakly children using the cold bath may wear a flannel shirt. Although the warm bath is rarely employed except in disease, yet both the cold and the warm bath are reme- dies against eruptions on the skin, by washing off those salt and acrid particles which are left upt,u it by perspiration. Excoriations are effec- tually obviated by frequently washing the parts of the body subject to them with cold water. Rules adapted to the infant state. 1. Use a child early to the boat or spoon—in case of