[ 261 ] CHA C HA bottled at the end of one year. Those of a good quality keep well from six to twelve years. Red Wines of the First Quality. Verzy, Verzenay, Mailhj, and St. Basle, near Rheiros, produce the best wines, called de la Montague. They have a good colour, body, spirit, and, more- over, much fineness, aroma, and bouquet. Bouzy, at the extremity of the chain of hills, furnishes wines which have all the qualities of the pre- ceding, and are distinguished by their delicacy. Le Clos de St. Thierry, one league north-west of Rheims, produces wines which unite the colour and bouquet in the wines of Burgundy to the lightness of those of Champagne. Red V/ikes of the Second Qoai.ity. Haute- Villiers, Mareuil, Dissy, Fierry, andEpernay, upon the declivities of the Mame, are more celebrated for white than red wine. Taissy, Liides, Ckigriy, Rilly, and Villiers-Amand, upon the mountains, from one league to three leagues and three quar- ters from Rheims, furnish wines partaking of all the qualities of the first class. Cumieres, near Epernay, upon the slopes called de la riviere Marne, is reputed for red wines more fine and delicate than those of the mountain of Rheims, but less body; and so forward that in a hot season they come so soon to their maturity as seldom to keep above three or four years. Red Wines of the Thied Quality. Ville- demange, Ecueil, Chameny, amongst the vine- yards de la Basse-Montagne, give wines of a good quality, which will keep ten or twelve years. St. Thierry, Irigny, Chenay, Douillion, Villefrancqueux, Hernonville, and some other crus of that part called the lands of St. Thierry, produce red wines much sought after, of a deep colour and a very pleasant flavour. Avenay, Champillon, and Damery produce also good red wines, but inferior to the preceding. Red Wines of the Fourth Quality. Vertus, three leagues and a half south of Epernay, wines of a good colour, body, and spirit, and very good flavour; not firm during the first year, but gain much by age, find keep long. Mardeuil, Mon- telon, Moussy, Vinay, Chaveau, and Mancy, two leagues from Epernay, give wines more deli- cate, more agreeable, and forward than those of Vertus. Chamery and Pargny, two leagues from Rheims, furnish wines of the same kind as the preceding. Vanteuil, Reuil, and Fleury-la-Bi- viere, two leagues and a quarter from Epernay, wines resemble those of Montelon, but lighter. Amongst the vineyards which produce the vins eommuns are those of Chatillon, Romery, Vineelles, Cormoyeux, Villers, Auilly, Vandieres, Verneuil, and Froissy, as giving the best. The vineyards of Sezanne, and all those of the dis- tricts of Chalons and Vitry-sur-Marne, produce only wines of a low quality. White Wines of the First Quality. Sil- lery, canton of Verzy, two leagues from Rheims, produces the most esteemed wine. It has an amber colour and a dry taste (its characteristics), body, spirit, and a charming bouquet. It has the property of keeping tho mouth fresh, and can be drank in a large quantity without harm; it is generally served iced. Sillery itself, being in a plain, contains but few vines ; they grow on the sides of Verzenay, which is contiguous ; it is there the very best wines called Sillery are produced. Before the revolution the sei- gneur of this uoniain possessed upon the decli- vities of Verzenay, Mailly, and Ludes, a great extent of ei;cellent vines, furnishing wines of the same kind, and of equal reputation with those of Siilery. The greater part of these has been sold to rich proprietors, who still cultivate them with the same care. The wine of Sillery is less sought after in France than in foreign countries; it is particularly esteemed in England. Ay, five leagues south of Rheims, the first of the vineyards, called de la riviere de Marne, furnishes the best sjjai'kling wines. They are fine, spirituous, sparkling, and have a beautiful bouquet, more light and more mellow than those of Sillery. In France they are often preferred, although they have neither the colour nor tho flavour, neither are they so spirituous or sto- machic. Mareuil, near Ay, produces wines not differing from the last, and pass in commerce as viiis dAy. Haute-Villiers, four leagues from Rheims, formerly furnished wines which equalled or surpassed those of Ay; but as many of the vineyards have fallen into the hands of persons who do not cultivate them with the same care, their produce, though good, is now placed only in the second class. Pierry, three quarters of a league from Epernay, has wines little inferior to those of Ay. They are drier, keep a longer time, and are distinguished by a marked taste of Pierre-d-Fiisil. Dissy makes wines which partake of all the qualities and character of those of Ay. The wines of Epernay are in general inferior to those of Ay ; however, soma wines, and particularly those du Closet, produce some equal in quality. White Wines of the Second Quality. The vineyards of Cramant, Anise, Oyer, and Le Menil, from one to three leagues from Epernay, are in general planted with white grapes, which succeed better than the red. Their wines are sweet, very fine, light, and agreeable. MixeJ with those of Ay, and others of the first quality, they furnish sparkling wines possessing all their qualities. This mixture is necessary in hot seasons, because the wines of the first crus of Marne being made with black grapes are less apt to sparkle than those from the white, and these latter insure the fermentation. The wines called Ptysannes are principally found amongst