CAO CAN [ 228 ] Ions, leaving a quarter of an incli each way. Press the paste together all round, to keep in the preserves, and when all are cut put them in a pan and fry them. When done drain them in a napkin, and sprinkle them with powdered sugar. CANNELONS, ICED. Eoll out some puff- paste thin, about eighteen inches square, and cut it into twenty-four strips. Have by you as many pieces of beech-wood turned, about six inches long, and three quarters of an inch in diameter, a degree less at one end than at the other. Butter these pieces of wood, and, having moistened your strips of paste, wind one round each of them, beginning at the smallest end, so as to form a sort of screw, four inches in length. Lay them on baking-plates pretty distant from each other; dorez, and put them into a hot oven. When of a nice colour sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze. As soon as you remove them from the oven take out the pieces of wood, and lay them on a cool slab. When wanted for table fill them with apple or any other jelly you may choose. CANNELONS, MERINGUES. Whip the whites of 2 eggs, and, having mixed tbem with 2 spoonsful of powdered sugar, mark the canne- lons. When baked crush ^ lb. of fine sugar, and roll the cannelons in it; replace them a few minutes in the oven, and then finish. The marking of these cannelons may be varied, according to the taste, with pistachios, dried currants, &c., the former cut in pieces, the latter well washed, diied, and mixed with an equal quantity of sugar. CANTHARIDES, or Spanish Fly. See Blister. CANVASS of fine texture is the coarsest fabric made from flax, coarse canvass being made from hemp. There are now made, however, canvasses of silk, worsted, and even of gilt wire, for working upon with floss silk, or very fine lambs' wool. It is sometimes desirable to make canvass waterproof, and in such case the canvass should have spread over it, by means of a hot flat iron, a mixture of 2 parts rosin and 1 part lard. When cold it may be painted any colour desired. CAOUTCHOUC, called, also, India-ruller, from its usefulness in rubbing out black-lead pencil marks, is the dried sap of Siphonia elastica, Ficiis elastica, and other tropical trees. If ex- posed to the air in thin films it soon dries, losing from one-third to'one-half of its weight, and leaving caoutchouc of the usual appearance. By the natives of South America it is applied in successive coats to the surface of clay models of bottles and of animals, and dried over fires, the smoke of which communicates to it a dark colour. While the caoutchouc is still soft various lines are drawn upon it with a blunt tool, which remain permanently impressed. When the whole has become dry the clay is crushed and shaken out of the bottles. The elasticity of caoutchouc is its most re- markable property; pieces of it may be stretched, after being soaked in warm water, to seven or eight times their original length, without being torn, or having their contractile power destroyed; and bottles of it may, by means of a condensing syringe, be expanded to many times their original dimensions. If a bottle be soaked in weU-washed sulphuric ether until quite soft, it may be inflated by means of the mouth till it has become so thin as to be transparent, and sufficiently light to ascend when filled with hydrogen gas. If dried in this state it will not again contract, and thin sheets of caoutchouc may be thus formed. A bottle has been thus expanded till it was six feet in diameter. In ether caoutchouc readily dissolves, and on the evaporation of the ether it remains un- changed in any of its properties. For this purpose the ether is washed by agitating it in a bottle with twice its bulk of water. The bottle is allowed to remain inverted till the ether has separated from the water and risen to the sur ■ face, and the water is then allowed to run out. leaving the ether in the vessel. This process is to be repeated three or four times, when about one-third of the original quantity of the ether will remain. The caoutchouc is to be boiled in water for a couple of hours, and then placed with the ether in a well-closed vessel, and in the course of a few days it will dissolve com- pletely. The volatile oils dissolve caoutchouc, but on evaporating generally leave it in a glutinous state. If, however, alcohol be added to its solu- tion in oil of cajeput, the caoutchouc separates in a semi-fluid state, and by exposure to the air regains its firmness and elasticity. Naphtha or petroleum, rectified into a colourless liquid, dissolves it, and upon evaporation leaves it unchanged. In South America the natives have long made waterproof boots of caoutchouc, and by imbuing cloth with the milky juice of the hhve have rendered it impervious to moisture. In Europe caoutchouc is also used extensively in the manufacture of waterproof cloth. For this purpose it is usually dissolved in naphtha, the oil distilled from gas-tar, and spread upon the surface of a piece of the cloth upon which a similar piece is then extended, and the whole passed between a pair of rollers. Thus the fabric consists of two pieces of cloth with a layer of caoutchouc interposed, and unitiug them to- gether. The cloth thus prepared is so imper- vious to moisture and to air, that floating or h^'drostatic beds for invalids are formed of it,