[ 511 ] FLO FLO grain of wheat. This is partly sold to the biscuit bakers, and is employed in baking the finest kind of sea biscuit. It is partly ground again, and constitutes the finest and most valuable kind of flour. A sack of flour weighs 280 lbs., or 5 bushels, and is supposed capable of being baked into eighty loaves in the act of parliament regulating the assize of bread. According to this estimate one-fifth of the loaf consists of water and salt, the remaining four-fifths of flour; bat the fact is that the number of the quartern loaves which can be made from a sack of flour depends en- tirely on the goodness of it. Good flour requires more water than bad, and old flour than new. Sometimes eighty-two, eighty-three, or even eighty-six loaves may be made out of a sack; sometimes scarcely eighty. To ascertain the purity of flour grasp it briskly in the hand, and squeeze it for half a minute, and if it be good it preserves the form of the cavity of the hand, although it may be rudely placed upon the table. Adulterated flour, on the contrary, soon falls down. That mixed with whiting is the most adhesive, though it soon gives way; but if the adulteration be ground stones, bones, or plaster of Paris, it almost immediately falls. Dip the forefinger and thumb in a little sweet oil, and take up a small quantity of the flour between them. If it be pure it may be rubbed for any length of time, and will not become adhesive ; but if whiting be present it very speedily becomes putty, and adheres strongly. The pure flour becomes, also, of a very dark colour from the admixture mth oil; adulterated flom* is but little altered. Lemon juice or vinegar will also show the presence of whiting by the agitation which it pro- duces in the flour: pure flour produces no par- ticular effect with these fluids. The best kind of wheaten flour assumes, at the instant it is formed into a mass by the addition of water, a very gluey, ductile, and elastic paste, easy to be kneaded, and which may be elongated, flattened, and drawn in every direction without breaking. It is not easy to devise means for the destruc- tion of the insects which breed in flour ; but all flour should be kept thoroughly dry, and in casks in preference to sacks, where the method is prac- ticable. Damaged flour, termed sprit, may be effectually divested of its disagreeable flavour by mixing ground rice with it in the proportion of 1 lb., and of magnesia J oz., to 10 lbs. of flour, and the usual quantity of yeast and water, keep- ing the mixture before the fire for the space of two hours, and then making it into bread in the usual way. The flour bin, or whatever vessel the flour is kept in, should be cleaned with boiling water very often. This checks the production of mites and mouldiness. The bin must be dried thoroughly before flour is put into it. The following economical additions to flour for bread- making are all excellent. It is necessary to premise that in using maize or potatoes the oven ought to be less heated than for barley or oats, and least so in the case of potatoes. 1. Half maize and half barley, with a leaven of wheat flour one-fifth of the total weight. 3. Half wheat flour and half maize. A more agreeable and better bread it is impossible to eat. 3. Half oatmeal and half barley, with a leaven of wheat flour of rather more than one-fifth. 4. Equal parts oatmeal and wheat flour; excellent. •5. Barley flour, with one-fifth its weight of wheat leaven ; bread white and well tasted. 6. Barley and rye, or barley and wheat, in equal quantities. This last is equal to the best bread of wheat flour alone. 7. Buckwheat, with an equal quantity of barley or rye, and one-fifth of wheat leaven ; or, still better, with one-half of wheat flour. 8. In general potatoes may serve, when they are dry, for one-half, and, when fresh or new, for two-thirds, and even for four-fifths, in the fabrication of household bread. This last quantity of four-fifths is the greatest that has been employed with advantage and with uni- form success. 9. Oats, barley, rice, or maize, also mix well with potatoes when used with a wheaten leaven of one-fifth of the total weight. During the scarcity of wheat in 1800 potatoes were dressed as follows, and handed round at dinner instead of bread :—The potatoes, as much as possible of one size, or large and small dressed separately, having been washed, but neither pared nor scraped, put them in a pot with a little cold water, but not enough to cover them. If large throw cold water in occasionally when they begin to boil, and till boiled to the heart, which, according to their size, will take from half an hour to an hour and a quarter. The slower they are cooked the better. Whilst boiling throw in a little salt, and when done pour off the water, set the pot over the fire again for a minute or two, and they are ready. Eat them as bread with a little salt, and the skins on. FLOWERS. If flowers received from a distance, or from any other cause, are drooping and fading, dip the ends of their stalks into hailing water, and let them remain in it until cold. Then cut off the ends that have been thus dipped, and arrange the flowers in the vase or tazza they are to occupy. A mixture of equal measures of sand and water is much better for arranging and sustaining flowers than water