CAE [ 206 ] CAK and flour, till it goes to the oven. Bake it in a quick oven, and it will take an hour and a quar- ter in baking. CAKE, QUEEN. Beat 1 lb. of butter to a cream with some rose water; 1 lb. of flour dried; 1 lb. of sifted sugar; 12 eggs. Beat all well together; add a few currants, washed and dried; butter small pans of a size for the pur- pose ; gi'ate sugar over them; they are soon baked. They may be done in a Dutch oven. CAKE, RATAFIA. Take i lb. of sweet almonds, and as many bitter ones; blanch and beat them in orange-flower water, rose water, or common water. Sift 1 lb. of fine sugar, and mix it with the almonds. Have ready the whites of 4 eggs; mix the same with the almonds and sugar; put the whole into a preserving-pan, set it over a fire, and stir it till it is hot; when it begins to cool form it into small rolls, and cut them into thin cakes. Dip your hands in flour, and shake them over the cakes, giving them a light touch with the finger; put them on sugared papers, and sift some fine sugar over them, when you put them into a slow oven. CAKE, RICE. Whisk 10 eggs for half an hour; add to them i lb. of flour of rice, i lb. of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and the grated peel of 3 lemons. Mix this into i lb. of fresh butter, previously beaten to a cream. Bake the cake in a buttered tin. CAKE, RICE (Sweet Dish). Wash well and drain J lb. of rice; boil 1 quart of fresh cream with the peel of 1 lemon, and when nearly cold take it out, and put in it the rice; place the saucepan over a slow fire, and when the rice has swollen add a little salt, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar. When the rice is quite tender add the yolks of 8 eggs, and mix in gradually the beaten whites, with a good bit of fresh butter, and pour it into a mould ; turn this round that the butter may equally cover every part of it; then pour out the butter, and strew over the inside a layer of grated bread with a paste-brush or a slip of paper, sprinkle all over it some of the clarified butter, add more grated bread, pour in the rice, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. Turn it out upon a dish, and serve it with or without a garnish- ing of preserved raspberries, cherries, or currants. CAKE, RICH. To 2i lbs. of dried and sifted flour allow the same quantity of fresh butter, washed with rose water, 2 lbs. of finely- pounded loaf sugar, 3 lbs. of cleaned and dried currants, 1 grated nutmeg, ^ lb. of sweetmeats cut small, I lb. of blanched almonds pounded with a little rose water, and 20 eggs, after these the rest of the ingredients, mixing in at last the currants, with a tea-cupful of brandy, and nearly as much orange-flower water. This mixture must be beaten together rather more than an hour, then put into a cake-pan which has previously been buttered and lined with buttered paper; fill it rather more than three quai-ters full. It should be baked in a moderate oven for three hours, and then cooled gradually, by at first letting it stand some time at the mouth of the oven. CAKE, ROSQUELLE. Take i lb. of sweet almonds, with a few bitter ones, blanch and pick them; then pound them very fine, and when nearly pounded enough, put in about ^Ib. of Lisbon sugar, by degrees; when the whole is well blended, take it out of the mortar. Then have some puff-paste rolled out very thin; roll out your almonds in lengths as long as the paste is broad, which lay on the paste and turn the end over; lightly egg it, to join it together; then with the gigging iron cut it across, each about three inches long ; put them in the oven, and when nearly done, glaze them, the same as other pastry. CAKE, ROYAL. Put a very little lemon- peel, shred fine, into a stevvpan, ■with 2 ozs. of sugar, a small pinch of salt, a piece of butter half the size of an egg, a glass of water, and 4 or 5 spoonsful of flour. Stir it over the fire till the paste becomes thick and begins to ad- here to the stewpan; then take it off, put in 1 egg, and stir it in the paste till it is well mixed. Continue to add an egg at a time till the paste softens without much liquid ; then put in some dried orange flowers, and 2 bitter almond biscuits. CAKE, SAFFRON. Take i peck of flour, 1^ lb. of butter, 3 ozs. of caraway seeds, and 6 eggs; beat J oz. of cloves and mace together very fine with ^oz. of cinnamon; beat lib. of sugar, 2 table-spoonsful of rose water, saffron sufficient to your taste, 1^ pint of yeast, and 1 quart of milk. Mix all together lightly with your hands thus:—First boil the milk and butter; skim off the butter, and mix with it the flour and a little of the milk, stir the yeast into the rest, and strain it; mix it with the flour, put in your seed, spice, rose water, tincture of saffron, sugar, and eggs. Beat all up with your -hands very lightly, and bake it in a hoop or pan, minding to butter the pan well. It will take an hour and a half in a quick oven. You may leave out the seeds if you please. CAKE, SALLY LUNN'S. Take 1 pint of milk quite warm, J pint of thick small beer- yeast ; put them into a pan with flour sufficient to make it as thick as a batter; cover it over, and let it stand till it has risen as high as it will, i.e., about two hours ; add 2 ozs. of lump sugar, dissolved in J pint of warm milk, i lb. of butter rubbed into your flour very fine. Then make your dough the same as for French Rolls, &c.; let it stand half an hour, then make up