D U M t 437 ] DUG and salt; lay some slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, as much ham or gammon, and two or three slices of veal or beef; put in the ducks with their breasts downwards, and cover them with slices of meat as before ; cut a can-ot, a turnip, an ouiou, and a bead of celery ; add thereto a blade of mace, four or five cloves, and some whole pepper; cover the whole closely, and simmer over a gentle fire till the breasts of the ducks are of a light brown; then put in some water, and let them remain till done. Next chop finely some parsley, an onion or shallot, two anchovies, gherkins, and capers ; put them into a stewpan, with some liquor from the ducks, a little browning, and the juice of half a lemon ; boil, cut the ends of the bacon even with the breasts of the ducks, lay them on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve thera hot. DUCKS, FRICASSEED. Quarter them, beat them well with the back of a knife, dry them well, and fry thera in fresh butter. When they ai'e almost done put in some onions shred small, and a little thyme; add a little claret, thin slices of bacon, parsley and spinach boiled green and shred small • break the yolks of three eggs into a dish, with a little pepper and some grated nutmeg, and toss them up with a ladleful of drawn butter; pour this over the ducks, lay the bacon upon thera, and serve. DUCKS, HASHED. Roast a couple of ducks till they are three parts done, and let them cool; then cut the breast in thin slices, taking care to preserve the gravy. The legs will serve for another dish, which you may dress by wrapping them in a cowl with a good farce, and serve with cullis sauce. For the slices you have cut from the breast cut cucumbers, and mari- nate them about an hour with a little vinegar, salt, and an onion sliced; then take out the onion, squeeze the cucumbers in a cloth, and put them into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, a slice of ham, a little stock, flour, and veal gravy ; boil slowly, skim well, take out the ham, and then put in the duck to warm without boiling. You may likewise do the same with chopped truffles or mushrooms, or anything else you may think proper, according to the season. A cold roasted duck will answer much the same purpose for this dish. DUCKS, STEWED. Take a couple of ducks, pick, draw, and dust them with flour, after which set them before the fire to brown ; put them into a stewpan, with one quart of water, a pint of port wine, a spoonful of walnut catsup, as much browning, an anchovy, half a lemon, a clove of garlic, some sweet herbs, Cayenne pepper, and salt; stew them till tender, then lay them on a dish, skim the fat from the liquor, strain it through a sieve, add a few morels and truffles, boil it till reduced to half a pint, pour it over the ducks, and serve them up. DUCKS, WILD: To Choose. These birds should be fat; the claws small, reddish, and supple. If not fresh on opening the beak they will smell disagreeable. The breast and rump should be firm and heavy. The flesh of the hen bird is the most delicate, though the cock generally fetches the highest price. DUCKS, WILD : To Dress. The entrails being taken out of the wild ducks, wipe them well with a cloth, and put into the inside a bit of butter rolled in pepper and salt. When trussed spit and roast them quickly for a quarter of an hour, which will be enough, as the gravy should not run out before they are taken up ; shake flour and salt over them, and froth thera with butter; put good strong gravy under them, and you may serve them with hot port wine in a boat. DUCKS, WILD (Salmis of). Cut off the best parts of a couple of roasted wild ducks, and put the rest of the meat into a mortar, with sis shallots, a little parsley, some pepper, and a bay leaf; pound all these ingredients well to- gether, and then put them into a saucepan, with four ladlesful of stock, half a glass of white wine, the same of broth, and a little grated nutmeg; reduce these to half, strain them, and, having laid the pieces on a dish, cover them with the above. Keep the whole hot, not boiling, until wanted for table. DUMPLETS. Put half a pint of sweet cream into a saucepan with a good spoonful of butter; set it on the fire, and as soon as the cream begins to boil beat in four spoonsful of flour, and mix together into a dough until it leaves the sides of the saucepan. When quite cold work up this dough with four or five eggs, until it is neither too thick nor too thin, for if the consistence be not exactly right the balls in the former state of the dough will be too hard, and in the latter fall to pieces. Cut off tlie dough for the balls with a spoon dipped each time in milk, and plunge them overhead in three pints of boiling milk, kept ready on the fire; keep them covered, but take care not to let the milk boil over, and when the balls rise to the surface they will be done. These dumplets are to be served on a dish on which Parmesan cheese is sprinkled, with melted butter poured over them, and Parmesan again above this, and the whole browned in a modera te oven, or with a hot shovel. DUMPLING, APPLE. Apple Dump- LING. DUMPLING, LARGE. Take green fruit of any kind—peaches, apples, cherries, b'lack' berries, or huckleberries; make a crust t>s for