ALM [ 10 ] ALK reputation for these qualities than they deserve. Oysters are often cold and uncomfortable to dyspeptic stomachs, unless warmed with a cer- tain quantity of pepper and good white wine. To recruit the animal spirits and produce strength there is nothing like beef and mutton; moreover, when kept till properly tender, nothing will give less trouble to the digestive organs, and more substantial excitement to the constitution. The writer has for some years dined prin- cipally upon plainly roasted or boiled beef and mutton, and has often observed that if he changes it for any other food for several days together that he suffers a diminution of strength, &c., and is disposed on such days to drink an additional glass of wine, &c. Howevei', the fitness of various foods and drinks, and the quantity of nutriment which they afford, depend very much upon how they are prepared, and as much on the inclination and abilities of the digestive faculties. ALKANET. This is the name given com- monly to the roots of Ancliusa tinctoria. It is employed to give a beautiful crimson colour to wax, lard, and oils, in the preparation of lip- salve and hair-oil. It is said that wine- merchants stain with it the corks of port-wine bottles to counterfeit age ; also, to colour spurious wines, as it imparts its colour to spirit of wine. ALKERMES. This liquor is much used in the South of Europe. The best is prepared at Santa Maria Novella, and the following is its composition:—Bay leaves, 1 lb.; mace, 1 lb.; nutmegs, 2ozs.; cinnamon, 2ozs.; cloves, 1 oz. Bruise and mix them ; put them into 3^ gallons of best brandy, and let them remain for three weeks in a 4-gallon stone bottle, closely corked and frequently shaken. It is best to distil over from this 3 gallons ; but it may only be strained through blotting-paper. Whichever mode is adopted, mix thoroughly with the clear liquor clarified syrup of kermes 18 lbs., and orange-flower water 1 pint. Bottle and cork tightly. ALLSPICE CAKES. Beat 3 eggs with \ pint of cream; stir it over the fire till warm; add 1 lb. of butter, ^ lb. of loaf sugar, and 2 ozs. of allspice, carefully stirring in the different ingredients upon a very slow fire that the butter may be incorporated- without oiling. Pour it over 2lbs. of flour, and make it into a paste. Roll it out without flour to any thickness, and cut out the cakes any size ; put them into the oven upon a board covered with paper: this prevents them baking too quickly upon the hot oven-shelf. Cakes of all the different spices may be done in the same way, and coloured, as lemon yellow, rose red, &c. ALLSPICE, ESSENCE OF. Take ono drachm of the oil of pimento, and mix it gradually with 2 ozs. of strong spuit of wine. A few drops of this will flavour a pint of gravy or mulled wine. ALLSPICE, TINCTURE OF. Steep 3 ozs of bruised allspice, apothecaries' weight, in a quart of brandy for a fortnight, soaking it from time to time, and then pour off the clear liquor. It is excellent for gravies. ALMOND. The chief uses of almonds are in confectionery and pastry. They should be well chewed, since every piece is indigestible; they yield a considerable proportion, sometimes nearly half their weight, of oil by pressure. ALMOND, MILK OF. Sweet almonds, blanched, 1|- oz.; bitter almonds, 2 scruples ; loaf-sugar, -J- oz.; water, 2^ pints. Pound the almonds with the sugar to a very smooth paste, adding the water by degrees, and then strain through very fine muslin. The success of this preparation depends upon beating the almonds to a very smooth pulp, and mixing this pulp per- fectly with every little addition of water before any more water is added, It is used medicinally for diluting and correcting acrid humours. ALMOND BALLS. Sift fib. of sugar into 1 lb. of almond paste ; stir them over the fire till they grow stiff; flavour with a few drops of oil of lemon ; take it from the fire ; make it up into little balls ; beat some white of eggs to a froth ; roll them in it, and then in sifted sugar till they become covered, dry, and smooth ; shake them round and round in a pan that is hardly covered with the white of egg. A little amber should be put to them, or any other essence. Bake them in a slow oven. ALMOND BEVERAGE. Blanch the al- monds ; make them very crisp in the mouth of the oven, preserving them perfectly white, and reduce them into fiiie powder, with very white refined sugar, and serve in a glass basin along with iced w-ater. This may also be perfumed or acidulated by drying any essence into the sugar before it is pounded. ALMOND BISCUITS (1). Blanch and pound \ lb. of sweet almonds, sprinkling them occasionally with fine sugar ; then beat them up, for a quarter of an hour, with 1 oz. of flour, the yolks of 3 eggs, and 4 ozs. of fine sugar, adding afterwards the white of 4 eggs whipped to a froth. Have ready some paper moulds, made like boxes, about the length of two fingers, square; butter them within, and put in the biscuits, throwing over them equal quantities of flour and powdered sugar. Bake in a cool oven, and when the biscuits are done of a good colour take them out of the papers. Almond Biscuits, Bitter, are made in the same manner with this difference, that 3 osss.