BL A BLA [ ] glass (if in summer, 1J oz.), the rind of a lemon peeled Aery thin, a little cinnamon, and a blade of mace, and 2^ ozs. of lump sugar. Blanch and pound 8 or 10 bitter and | oz. of sweet al- monds very fine, with 1 spoonful of rose water, and mix them with the milk. Strain it through a lawn sieve or napkin into a basin, with ^ pint of good cream. Let it stand half an hour; pour it into another basin, leaving the sediment at the bottom, and when nearly cold, put it into a mould. When wanted set it in the centre of a dish, and garnish with slices of orange. About half a gill of noyeau may be substituted for the almonds. BLANC-MANGE (3). Boil till dissolved, in a large tea-cupful of water, f oz. of isinglass; when milkwarm, add it to 1 quart of rich cream, with a stick of cinnamon, the peel of a lemon, 2 or 3 laurel leaves, or a few bitter almonds; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; stir it over the fire, and let it boil for two or three minutes ; strain it through a bit of muslin into a deep dish, and stir it till nearly cold; then put it into°an earthenware mould or shape. The follow- ing day dip the mould into warm water for a minute or so, clap it with the hand to loosen the edge, place the glass or china dish over the mould, and turn it out quickly upon the dish. As much CO wheel stock as will fill the shape may be substituted for the isinglass. BLANC-MANGE (4). Blanch and pound with a little ratafia or rose water 2 ozs. of sweet and 6 bitter almonds; dissolve f oz. of isin- glass ; add it, when milkwarm, to 1 quart of good cream (half milk and half cream may be used); mix in the almonds the peel of a small lemon and a bit of cinnamon; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; let the mixture stand for two or three hours; put it into a saucepan, stir it con- stantly, and let it boil for six or eight minutes ; strain it through a lawn sieve, and stir it till nearly cold; then pour it into a mould. BLANC-MANGE (5). Blanch and pound 1 oz. of sweet almonds with 1 glass of sherry and 1 table-spoonful of pounded loaf sugar; add it to I oz. of isinglass dissolved in ^ pint of water, and boil it till the flavour of the almonds be extracted, stirring it all the time; strain it through a bit of thin muslin, and mix with 1 quart of good cream; stir it till quite cold, and pour it into a mould. BLANC-MANGE (with Fruit). Boil oz. of isinglass, and when quite dissolved, strain it. Let it cool for half an hour; skim, and pour it, free from sediment, into another pan; then whisk with it 1 table-spoonful of cedral;, and i lb. of currant jelly, strawberry or raspberry jam, and when it begins to jelly fill the moulds. BLANC-MANGE (without Isinglass). Pre- pare your almonds in the S'^.me manner as in the receipt for French Blanc-mange, but only use half the quantity specified in that receipt, and likewise leave out the isinglass. Then put into the pan the whites of 4 eggs, and whip them till they begin to whiten ; then add your blanc-mange, and place your pan over hot ashes, and continue to whip your preparation until the eggs are thoroughly mixed with the almonds, and the whole begins to turn to a thick cream ; when it is of a proper consistence pour it into little cups, and serve either hot or cold. When you wish to serve this entremet in little cups, and of any flavour you please, you must only make use of two-thirds of the almonds named in the receipt for French Blanc-mange. BLANC-MANGE, AMERICAN. Mix a pint of cold water with 2 ozs. of arrowroot; let it settle for fifteen minutes; pour off the water, and add 1 table-spoonful of laurel water, and a little sugar; sweeten 1 quart of new milk, boil it with a little cinnamon, and half the peel ot a lemon ; pick out the cinnamon and lemon, and pour the boiling milk upon the arrowroot, stir ring it all the time. Put it into a mould, and turn it out on the following day. BLANC-MANGE, ARROWROOT. See Arrowroot. BLANC-MANGE, DUTCH. Wash H oz. of isinglass, pour H pint of boiling water over it, let it stand for an hour, and then boil it for twenty minutes ; strain, and when it is nearly cold, add the beaten yolks of 6 eggs, 1 pint of Lisbon wine, the peel of 1 and juice of 2 lemons, with a stick of cinnamon, and sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; stir it over the fire till it begins to simmer, but do not allow it to boil; pick out the peel and cinna- mon, pour it into a basin, stir it till nearly cold, and put it into a mould. BLANC-MANGE EGGS. Make a small hole at the ends of 4 or 5 large eggs, and let out all the contents carefully; wash the shells, drain, and fill them with blanc-mange; place them in a deep dish, filled with rice and barley, to keep them steady, and when cold, gently break and peel off the shell. Cut the peel of a lemon into delicately-fine shreds, lay them in a glass dish, and put in the eggs, or serve them in a glass dish with a pink cream round them. BLANC-MANGE, FRENCH. Blanch lib. of sweet and 20 bitter almonds ; drain them in a sieve, and afterwards dry them by rubbing them in a napkin ; pound them in a mortar, continually moistening them with ^ tea-spoon- ful of water at a time to prevent their oiling. When they are pounded as fine as possible, take them out of the mortar, and put them into a pan; then, with a silver spoon, beat up your almonds . gradually with 5 glasses of clear water; after this spread a napkin over an ovai