DAM DAI [ 403 3 Wooden pails are used for receiving the milk as drawn from the cow, and they ought to be of sufficient capacity to contain all the milk which is obtained at one milking. The chief of the other utensils of the dairy are sieves of hair or of wire gauze for passing the milk through, in order to retain its impurities when emptying it from the pails into the cooler; scal- lops or flat dishes of horn, ivory, or willow, for skimming the cream from the surface of the milk; jars for receiving the cream, and containing it till the time of churniyg; a flat wooden tub for washing the butter in; balance, scales, and weights for weighing butter; covered dishes for holding pound pieces of fresh butter ; moulds for form- ing prints of butter for the table ; jars or firkins for the curing and packing of salted butter ; a wooden vat or tub for the coagulation of milk which is to be made into cheese; a curd cutter and curd breaker, or knife, an implement for the cutting and comminuting of the curd; and a drainer, or vessel pierced with holes, for draw- ing off the great body of the whey from the curd. DAIRY-MAID. In Holstein the most correct and unwearied attention is paid to dairying, and the following is a statement of the services of the head dairy-maid: those of England mayproiit by it. The upper dairy-woman is by far tlie most important personage in the establishment, as on her skill, attention, and diligence depend, in a great measure, both the quantity and quality, and by consequence the profit, of the produce. She must not onlj' thoroughly understand, but accurately observe, the moment when the milk should be creamed, the degree of acidity it must attain in the cream-barrels, its temperature, whether requiring the addition of warm or cold water to the churn, as well as the all-important operations of kneading, beating, salting, and packing the butter. She must not only be punctiliouslj' clean herself in person and work, but keep a strict eye over the clfauliness and order of her subordinate maidens. In very large dairies the upper woman has full employ- ment without milking, and needs the assistance always of one, and sometimes of two of the more experienced dairy-maids in butter and cheese making; but in smaller establishments she milks a certain number, generally ten cows, while each of her subordinates has eighteen. Her wages are usually 55 to 60, that of chief assistants 22, and that of the others 18 dollars per annum. During summer the dairy people must rise at three, and even two in the morning if the weather be very hot, for which they are indem- nified by two hours' sleep fi'om one to three in the afternoon. At four they commence milking, which takes place in the field, and generally occupies two hours. At the beginning of the season each girl marks her own cows by tying a particular coloured ribbon round their tails, and in some places they adopt the precaution of the milkers carrying a string, on which they cast a knot as each cow is successively milked, thus securing against one being forgotten. DALEY'S CARMINATIVE. See Carmi- native, Daley's. DAMASK. A desci-iption of woven cloths composed both of flax and of silk, which are believed to have been originally brought from Damascus. Linen damask is used for table- cloths and napkins. Until the last half century the cloths of this kind used in England were imported from Germany, but the manufacture has since that time been successfully carried on both in Scotland and in Ireland. Damask cloths are of thick texture, but fine in quality, and the weaving of them puts into requisition all the skill of the weaver for the production of the elaborate patterns which they bear. Some of these patterns require upwards of 1200 changes of the draw-loom for their completion, the method of performing which could not be ex- plained without going into the detail of the art of weaving. The weaving of silk damask was introduced into England by the Flemish weavers who fled hither from the persecutions of the Duke of Alva in 1567. For a long time silk damask dresses were used on all occasions of ceremony by ladies of rank and by wealthy commoners, but they were never commonly worn. They were wrought with a great variety of colours, and if the patterns did not exhibit much taste they were sufficiently showy; from the quantity of silk which they contained they were also very costly. The damask employed at the present day for curtains and the like articles of household furniture is made of a mixture of silk with flax, cotton, or wool; the warp is of the more costly material. Cotton damask is made in imitation of that formed of linen, but it is much inferior in quality, and far less durable. DAMP, whether in beds, in linen, or in walls, is very injurious to those living within them. Beds become damp either from their not being used, standing in damp houses or in rooms without fire, or from the linen not being dry when laid on the bed. Nothing is more to be dreaded by travellers than damp beds, which are very common in all places whei-e fuel is scarce. When a traveller, cold and wet, arrives at an inn he may, by means of a good fire, warm diluting liquor, and a dry bed, have the perspiration restored; but if he be put into a cold room and laid in a damp bed it will be more obstructed, and the worst consequences will ensue. But inns are not the only places where damp beds are to be met with. Beds