BLO [ 130 ] BLO breasts, are most liable to this disease. It is most cominou iu the spring, and generally at- tacks people before they arrive at tiie prime or middle period of life. It is a common observa- tion, that those who have been subject to bleed- ing at the nose when young, are afterwards most liable to an haemoptoe. An haemoptoe may proceed from excess of blood, from a peculiar weakness of the lungs, or a bad conformation of the breast. It is often occasioned by excessive drinking, running, wrestling, singing, or speaking aloud. Such as have weak lungs ought to avoid all vi(deut exertions of those organs, as they value life. They should likewise guard against violtnt passions, excessive drinking, and everything that occa- sions a rapid circulation of the blood. This disease may likewise proceed from wounds of the lungs. These may either be received from without, or they may be occasioned by hard bodies getting into the windpipe, and so falling down upon the lungs, and hurting those tender organs. The obstruction of any customary evacu- ation may occasion a spitting of blood; as neg- lect of bleeding or purging at the usual seasons, the stoppage of the bleeding piles in men, or the menses in women, &c. It may likewise proceed from a polypus, a scirrhous concretion, or anything that obstructs the circulation of the blood in the lungs. It is often the effect of a long and violent cough, in which case it is generally the forerunner of a consumption. A violent degree of cold suddenly applied to the external part of the body will occasion an haemoptoe. It may likewise be occasioned by breathing air which is too much rare6ed to be able properly to expand the lungs. This is often the case with those vvho work in hot places, as glass-houses, or the like. It is likewise said to happen to such as ascend to the top of very high mountains, as the Peak of Teneriff, &c. It arises mostly between the age of sixteen and twenty-five. Spitting of blood is not usually attended with danger, nor is it always to be considered as a primary disease. It is often only a sj^mptom, and iu some diseases not an unfavourable one. This is the case iu pleurisies and sundry fevers. In dropsy, scurvy, or con- sumption, it is a bad symptom, and shows that the lungs are ulcerated. Spitting of blood is generally preceded by a sense of weight and oj)pression of the bi'east, a dry, tickling cough, hoarseness, and a difficulty of breathing. Sometimes it is ushered in with shivering, coldness of the exti'emities, costive- ness, great lassitude, flatulence, pain of the back and loins, &c. As these show a general stricture upon the vessels, and a tendency of the blood to inflammation, they are commonly the forerunners of a \erj copious discharge. The above symptoms do not attend a discharge of blood from the gums or fauces, by which means they may always be distinguished from an haemoptoe. Sometimes the blood that is spit up is thin, and of a florid red colour; and at other times it is thick, and of a dark or blackish colour. Nothing, however, can be inferred froru this circumstance but that the blood has lain a longer or shorter time in the breast before it was discharged. Spitting of blood in a strong, healthy person, of a sound constitution, is ni. t very dangerous; but when it attacks the tender and delicate, or persons of a weak, lax fibre, it is with difficidty removed. When it proceeds from a scirrhus or polypus of the lungs it is bad. The danger is greater when the discharge proceeds fi'om the rupture of a large vessel than of a small one. When the extravasated blood is not spit up, but lodges in the breast, it cor- rupts, and greatly increases the danger. When the blood proceeds from an ulcer in the lungs it is generally fatal. The patient ought to be kept cool and easy. Everything that heats the blood or quickens the circulation increases the danger. The mind ought likewise to be soothed, and every occa- sion of exciting the passions avoided. The ditt should be soft, cooling, and slender; as rice boiled with milk, sinall broths, barley-gruels, panado, &c. The diet, in this case, can scarcely be too low ; even water-gruel is sufficient to support the patient for some days. All strong liquors must be avoided. The patient may drink milk and water, barley-water, whey, butter- milk, and such like aliments. Everything, how- ever, should be drank cold, and in small quan- tities at a time. He should observe the strictest silence, or at least speak with a very low voice. This, like the other involuntary discharges of blood, ought not to be suddenly stopped by astringent medicines. Mure mischief is often done by these than if it were suffered to go on. It may, however, proceed so far as to weaken the patient, and even endanger his life, in which case ftroper means must be used for restraining it. The body should be kept gently open by la.Kadve diet, as roasted apples, stewed prunes, and such like. If these should not have the deitred effect, a tea-spoonful of the lenitive electuary may be taken two or three times a day as is found necessary. If the bleeding proves violent, ligatures may be applied to the e.itremities; cooling purgatives, such as manna, tamarinds, phosphorated soda, sulphate of pot- ash, refrigerants, &c. Take infusion of roses, 1^ oz. ; Epsom salts, 3 drachms. Make a draught: to be taken twice a day. Or, take infusion of roses, lioz.; nitre, 15 grains; tincture of opium, 10 drops. Make a draught: to be taken every fourth horn'. Or, take creaui