[ 154 ] BRE BRE leaven. Barm is now employed in preference to ieaven in every civilised country. In this country the yeast used by the bakers is made ailificially, cjiiefly from potatoes. The process followed by oi)r bakers is nearly as follows:—A certain quantity of salt is dis: solved in water, the temperature of which varies, according to cii'cumstances, from 70° to 100"?. Yeast is mixed with this water, and then a por^ tion of flour is added, but always less than is ultimately employed in forming the finished dough. The mixture is covered up and set apart in a warm place. Fermentation begins to be evident in about an hour. The sponge (so the imperfect dough is called) begins to swell up in consequence of the evolution of car- bonic acid gas. This gas, being confined by the adhesive nature of the gluten, heaves up the sponge to ftwice its original bulk. Being no longer capable of containing this pent-up gas, it bursts and subsides. This alternate rising 9,nd falling of the sponge might be repeated a great many times; but unless .the baker stops it afte|r the second, or, g,t the utmost, the third drop^ ping of the sponge, the bread invariably proves sour. He, therefore, at this period, adds to the sponge the remaining quantity of flour, water, and salt, and incorporates these new materials with the sponge by a long and laborious course of kneading. After this the dough is left to itself for a few hours, during which time it con- tinues in a state of active fermentation, diffused through every part of it. It is then subjected tQ a second, but much less laborious kneading, in order to distribute the imprisoned gas as equally as possible through the whole dough. It is now weighed out into the portions requisite to form the kinds of bread desired. These portions are shaped into loaves, and set aside for an hour or two in a warm situation. The fermentation still goes on, and gradually expands the mass to double its former bulk. They are now put into the oven and baked into loaves. The mean heat of a baker's oven, as ascer- tained by M. Tillet, is 448°. The bakers do not use a thermometer, but judge that it has arrived at the proper heat when flour, thrown on the floor of it, becomes black very soon without taking fire. This heat immediately stops the fermentation, but the gas already generated is swelled out by the heat, and gives the loaf its characteristic vesicular structui"e. When bread is taken out of the oven it is lighter than when put in, from the evaporation of a portion of moisture during the baking. It would appear, also, from the analysis of bread by M. Vogel, that a portion of the starch is con- verted into sugar. A few years before the be- ginning of the French Revolution the French bakers petitioned their government to investigate the loss of weight which bread sustains in the oven, alleging that the loss was very various, and that, on that account, they had been fre- quently taxed with dishonesty without reason. M. Tillet and the other commissioners appointed to investigate the subject, in consequence of this petition, fonnd that a loaf which weighed, be- fore it was put into the oven, 4-625 lbs., was reduced, at an average, to 3 813 lbs.; so that it lost 17'54 pef cent, of its original weight. This somewhat exceeds one-sixth of the original weight pf the dough, '^hey found, however, that this loss of weight was by no means uniform, even when the nature of the dough, the heat of the oven, the situation of the loaves, and every other appreciable circumstance was exactly the same. The di9"erence amountpd in some cases to 7^ per cent. Other things being the same, the loss of weight sustained is proportional to the extent pf surface of the loaf, and to the length of time that it remains in the oyen. A loaf was weighed after being baked, and was found to weigh exactly 4 lbs. Being replaced in the oven for ten minutes and then weighed again, it weighed one-eighth pf a pound less than before. Being put again into the oven for ten minutes, it sustained an additional loss of weight amounting to one-six- teenth of a pound. Loaves are heaviest when just taken out of the oven. Unless they be kept in a damp place pr wrapped round with a wet cloth they gradually lose weight. Thus Tillet found that a loaf, weighing at first 4 lbs., had lost, after being kept a week, about one-thirteenth of its original weight. Newrbaked bread possesses a peculiar taste and smell, which it loses by keeping, unless it be wrapped round with a wet towel. In that case much of the taste and smell ai-e preseiwed. The crust and the part of the bread next to it are much more easily digested than the inner part of the loaf, because from the former the products of fermentation have been the most completely expelled. But another remark should go hand in hand with this. The bro^raer the crust the more have the nuti'itive elementsof the bread been altered or driven off by the heat, and the greaterthe proportion of charcoal in what remains. The main elementary ingredients in flour are carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen. By heat, if intense, the three last are driven off as steam or as gases, the former only remaining^ Burnt bread is, therefore, neither more nor less than charcoal, and is deprived of all its power of affording nourishment to the system. The more nearly the bread is brought to this state the more the other elements are lost, the greater is the proportion of carbon in what remains; and the less of nutritive properties does it possess. We have, then, several good reasons for saying to our readers, Let your bread be baked