BAT , BAT [ 75 ] on tlie nervous system, and particularly on the skin and kidneys. Their effects on the bowels, like that of all waters which contain but a minute quantity of any purgative salt, are un- certain. In general, however, they induce a costive habit of body, which should be obviated by occasional doses of some mild aperient medicine. The diseases for which they are resorted to are very numerous. In most of them the bath is employed along with the internal use of the water. They are indicated in all those cases where a gentle, gradual, and permanent stimulus is re- quired ; and where there is no circumstance to occasion danger from the sudden heat and increase of pulse which so often attend their exhibition. Their heating quality points out the necessity of much caution in their employment, which might often do considerable injury in various cases of active inflammation, especially in irrit- able habits, where there exists a strong tendency to hectic fever; in diseased and suppurating viscera, and wherever a dry tongue and quick pulse indicate a degree of general fever. The disorders, therefore, to which they are suited are of the chronic kind, and are the following: chlorosis and menstrual obstructions ; affections which bear the pieparations of iron well, and are at all times relieved by their administration : in these cases the bath will eminently assist to remove that languor of circulation, and obstruc- tion of the natural evacuations, which characterise these frequent and distressing maladies of the female sex. Hypochondriasis, dyspeptic dis- orders, spasms of the stomach and bowels, jaun- dice, arising from simple obstruction of the gall ducts in consequence of debility; and those morbid conditions of the system brought on by a long residence in a hot climate, or by intem- perance in a cold one, and marked by derange- ment in the biliary secretion, lassitude, and general weakness. By their power of exciting the motion of the vessels when languid, they are likewise effica- cious in inertia of the nervous system, as para- lytic affections. When these are seated in the extremities the waters are usually pumped upon the part. This pumping is strangely denomi- nated dry pumping, and this partial application is considered equally beneficial as the hot bath, and less stimulating to the general constitution. It is, consequently, much employed. Bath is greatly frequented by individuals afflicted with rheumatism and gout. The waters are, however, useful only when the inflammatory stage of these diseases is over, and when there i remain only signs of weakness of the organs of digestion, such as nausea, eructations, flatulence, and want of appetite. The quantity of water taken daily by adults, during a full course, is recommended by Br. Falconer not to exceed a pint and a half or two pints; and in chlorosis, with irritable habits, not more than one pint; and this allowance should be divided into three portions, of which two should be taken before breakfast, at dif- ferent times, and one afterwards. The morning is the time generally chosen for the bath, which is usually employed two or three times a week. The duration of the im- mersion should be regulated by the sensations of the invalid, and may be from ten minutes to half an hour, should no degree of lassitude or faintness occur. The choice of the baths is a matter of im- portance, from the great difference in their respective temperatures; the Cross Bath oeing about 94°, while that of the Kings Bath is at least 8° higher. The former is, consequently, a tepid bath, although it feels warm to the skin, and may be used for the common purposes of health ; but the latter is a hot bath, and should be confined to those cases requiring the most stimulating application, as rheumatic and para- lytic affections of the joints. The more tempe- rate seasons of the year are generally recom- mended for the use of the Bath waters, which should always be aided by moderate and regular exercise. The course should be continued for a considerable time, to make a fair trial of their efficacy, their operation being very gradual. The regimen should be suited to the nature of the disease, and the habits of life regular.— {Practical Observations on Mineral Waters.) BATHING. The following very sensible advice to bathers is given by Mr. Forsyth in his " Manual of Domestic Medicine." People of delicate constitutions, or those much weakened from disease, ought not to bathe until the sun approaches near to his meridian height; and, indeed, with those who enjoy a tolerable degree of health, it may not always be proper to bathe immediately after rising from bed in the morning, a time suitable to some constitutions, although not to others. There are a variety of circumstances here which require consideration. In sultry, moist weather bathing should be discontinued ; and patients in particular confined to their bed-chamber, with the windows of the apartments shut. A small, clear fire would also be a recommenda- tion, which, notwithstanding the state of the atmosphere, will not be found unacceptable to convalescents. Nothing can be more improper or inconsiderate than to immerse or to plunge the body hastily into cold water after a meal when the stomach is loaded with food. The process of digestion by such means is inter- rupted so as with difficulty to accomplish its object, independently of a variety of other incou-