BEE t 101 ] BEE steaks, their liquor reduced and substituted for catsup and wine, will be a variety. BEEFSTEAK PIE (2). Beat your steaks with a rolling-pin, flour, and season with pepper and salt. ' When seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with pufF-paste round the edges ; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with good crust. BEEFSTEAK PIE (Raised). Take rump- steaks, cut the skin from the fat, beat the steaks ■with a chopper, cut them into middling-sized pieces, spi'inkle them with a little fi'esh butter, pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and chopped shallots, and when half done, put them into a dish till cold. Blanch oysters, strain them, and pre- serve the liquor; raise a crust, put a layer of steaks at the bottom, then oysters upon it, and so on alternately; cover the pie, ornament and bake it. When done, put it into a good cullis with the oyster liquor and some catsup mixed with it, and serve it. Steaks with oysters may be done the same way. Put into a deep dish and cover with puff-paste. BEEFSTEAK PUDDING (1). Beat your steaks with a rolling-pin, season them, and roll them with fat between, and if you approve of shred onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin and put in the rolls of steaks ; cover the basin with a paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in ; cover with a cloth tied closely, and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length of time. BEEFSTEAK PUDDING (2). Take flour, chopped suet, some milk, a little salt, and an egg, and mix them well together. Boll out the paste half an inch thick, and sheet a basin or bowl with it; then trim the skin from the meat, beat the steaks well with a chopper, cut them into middling-sized pieces, season with pepper and salt; put them into the basin with blanched oysters and slices of potatoes alter- nately, or slices of onion; cover the top with paste, and tie a cloth over the basin. Boil the pudding, if of a middling size, two hours, and when it is to be served up, put into it a little cullis and catsup. BEEFSTEAK PUDDING (3). Get rump- steaks not too thick, beat them with a chopper, cut them into pieces half the size of your hand, and trim off all the skin, sinews, &c. Have ready an onion, peeled and chopped fine, like- wise some potatoes, peeled and cut into slices a quarter of an inch thick; rub the inside of a basin or an oval, plain mould with butter, sheet it with paste, season the steaks with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg; put in a layer of steaks, then another of potatoes, and so on till it is full, occasionally throwing in part of the chopped onion; add to it \ gill of mushroom catsup, a table-spoonful of iemon-pickle, and \ gill of water or veal broth ; roll out a top, and close il well to prevent the water getting in; rinse a clean cloth in hot water, sprinkle a little flour over it, and tie up the pudding. Have ready a large pot of boiling water, put it in, and boil it two hours and a half; take it up, remove the cloth, turn it downwards in a deep dish, and when wanted take away the basin or mould. BEEFSTEAK PUDDING (Baked). Make a batter of milk, 2 eggs, and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes, boiled and mashed through a cullender; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish; then put in the steaks, prepared as above, and veiy well seasoned ; pour the re- mainder of the batter over them, and bake. BEEFSTEAKS, BROILED (1). Cut your steaks rather thick, beat them well, and soak them, in oil or vinegar, with a little fine salt; then broil them on a gridiron over a clear, quick fire; but before you broil your steaks make a preparation with some fresh butter, salt, and parsley, chopped fine and mixed to- gether with the juice of a lemon; put the preparation into a dish made very hot, and serve your steaks upon it. You may garnish with fried slices of potato, slices of pickled cucumber, and cresses. Some make use of anchovy sauce instead of parsley. BEEFSTEAKS, BROILED (2). The best steaks are cut from the middle of the rump. Let them be cut half an inch thick, then beat with a rolling-pin; season them with pepper and salt. Let the fire be very brisk and clear, and the gridiron very clean; set the dish before the fire, upon a chafing-dish, to keep hot; turn the steaks often with a pair of small tongs made on purpose. When they are done enough, lay them in the dish and rub a bit of butter over them. Be sure not to season them till they are put upon the gridiron. BEEFSTEAKS, BROILED (3). Cut the steaks off a rump, or the ribs of a fore-quarter, and beat them well with a rolling-pin. Have the gridiron perfectly clean, and heated over a quick fire ; lay on the steaks, and keep turn- ing them constantly with meat-tongs till they are done enough; throw a little salt over them just before taking them off the fire. Serve them as hot as possible, plain, or with a made- gravy and sliced onion, or rub a bit of butter upon them the moment of serving. Mutton- chops are broiled in the same manner. BEEFSTEAKS, FRIED. Pepper and salt some rump-steaks, stew them with some water, a glass of Madeira, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy or two, an onion, a piece of lemon -peel, and two or three cloves; cover them closely, and ■when tender take them out; flour them pretty ■well, fry them, pour off the fat, strain the liquor they were stewed in, and put it to the