[ 135 ] RON BON BONBONS. Provide tin moulds of various shapes, and oil them with the oil of sweet al- monds. Take a quantity of brown sugar syrup, in proportion to their size, in the state called a blow, which may he known by dipping the skimmer into the sugar, shaking it, and blowing through the holes, when parts of the light may be seen ; add a drop of any agreeable essence. If preferred white, wlien the sugar is rolled a little, stir it round in the pan till it grains and shines on the surface ; then pour it through a funnel into the little moulds, and leave it a sufficient time to cool and harden. When cold take it out of the mould, and dry it two or three days on white paper. If the bonbons are re- quired to be coloured, add the colour just before the sugar is ready to be taken off the fire. BONES, DYEING. This process may be performed either by immersing bones in the common dyeing liquors made of animal and vegetable substances, or staining them without heat by different metallic solutions. To suc- ceed in the former method the bones should previously be boiled in a solution of alum, and afterwards steeped in a decoction made of any colouring substance. Thus, to stain them of a red colour, ^ lb. of Brazil wood may be boiled for an hour in 1 gallon of strong lime-water, in which the bones are suffered to lie till they acquire a proper colour: if they assume too deep a hue of purple, it will be necessary to plunge them again into a solution of alum, which has the effect of bringing them to a crimson or scarlet shade. By metallic solutions bones may be easily spotted or variegated. Thus a solution of silver in aquafortis imparts, according to its strength, a brown or black colour; a solution of gold in aquaregia, a fine purple ; a solution of copper in the acetous acid, a pleasant green; and solutions of the same metal in the volatile spirit of ammonia, at first a deep and beautiful blue; but which, on exposing it to the air, changes into a green or bluish green. On touching the bone with the two solutions first mentioned it acquires the desired tint in a few hours when placed in the open air; but in those liquors made with copper it should be steeped for at least twenty-four hours, sufficiently to imbibe the colour. In such cases as require immersion for some time the bone may be variegated by covering those parts which are intended to re- main white with wax, or other matter not soluble in the staining liquor. BONNE-BOUCHE (for a Goose). Mix a tea-spoonful of made-mustard, a small tea-spoon- ful of salt, and a very little Cayenne pepper in a wine-glassful of claret or port wine; pour it into the goose by a slit in the apron immediately before serving up ; or it may be put with some thick melted butter or thick gravy into a boat. BONNET. The following general direrlions for making this article of dress we borrow fi om an excellent little volume published by Houlston and Stoneman, entitled, " The Dressmaker and the Milliner:"—The first point in making a bonnet is to prepare perfectly the foundation. Bonnet shapes are made of willow, buckram, or paste- board. Formerly little but pasteboard was used ; but buckram and willow are much more used now, and of these willow is the best, as being the lightest and most pliable. A paper pattern of the intended bonnet is first cut, and by tliis the willow is cut. A chip, wired with a stiff wire, is sewed round the outer edge of the bon- net front, the wire generally lying between tlie willow and the chip. The edge is then slightly bound with a slip of soft muslin or silk, to prevent any stitches or other roughness from showing through to the outside. This bit of muslin or silk is cut on the bias, that it may fit itself to the edge, and not crease at the turnings, as a straight piece would do. Tliis wiring will not be required if the foundation be made of so stiff a material as pasteboard. The inner edge of the front must also be wired ; but, as it is to press upon the head, the wire used is not so stiff, and it is separated from tlie chip. The chip is to be inside and the wire outside, with the willow between. The willow, which projects beyond the wire and chip, is then slit or snipped at regular distances, and turned up to fit round the head, and to make an edge to which the crown of the bonnet is afterwards to be fastened. Making bonnet crowns. There are two sorts of bonnet crowns—the plain and the full or fancy crown. The head-piece of a plain crown (the part which goes round the head) is cut out in willow by a pattern, and joined exactly of the right size to fit the front. The upper edge is then stiffened with a wired chip. The top of the crown is commonly made of buckram, be- cause it has to be plaited, and willow does not plait so well as buckram. The top of the crown is more or less raised above the sides, and the circular piece of buckram must be cut larger or smaller accordingly. It is plaited in small plaits till it is bent to the proper shape, and then sewed to the sides. Great care must be taken not to bend the wire or the buckram out of shape. They must remain perfectly round. Crowns with flat or plain tops are often bought ready-made from the manufacturer ; but our concern is with those only which are made in the milliner's work-room. Full or fancy crowns must be made upon a head. Dolls' heads are, therefore, made differing in size as ladies* heads do. The full crown is cut out in buck- ram by a pattern, and plaited on the doll's head by a person of skill and taste, according