ANT [ 24 ] ANT coal. It is heavier than Common coal, has rather a metallic lustre, burns without emitting smoke, and, if dry, produces hut little flame, hut, if damp, it emits a low, yellow flame. It consists almost entirely of carbon, and, therefore, like charcoal, produces a gi'cater heat than can he obtained from an equal weight of any other coal. It burns brightly, but is not a cheerful fuel for parlour use. ANTI-ATTRITION. This is used to reduce the friction of wheels, or, in common language, " to make them run easy." It is also excellent for smearing over fire-kons and other bright articles of iron previously to putting them away until required. Lard, lbs ; camphor, 1 oz ; blacklead, i lb. Rub, in a mortar, the camphor down into a paste with a little of the lard ; then add the rest of the lard and the blacklead, and mix thoroughly ANTIDOTES are medicines capable of pre- venting the ill effects of poison, and it may be eafely affirmed that, if the poison has been taken into the stomach, the most effectual anti- dote is to cause vomiting; and let this be hastened without loss of time. Life or death may depend on the delay of a minute. Both with the emetic used for this pm-pose and after- wards certain specific antidotes may be em- ployed, for in many cases the effects of this latter remedy may be promoted by the ingestion of liquids holding the particular antidote in solution—a practice which offers the double advantage of accelerating the throwing out of the poison, and at the same time of decomposing any which may remain. Orfila has fully established the fact of albumen being a counter poison to corrosive sublimate; vomiting may, therefore, be very judiciously promoted in cases of such poisoning by water holding the white of egg in solution; with equal effect, where verdigris has been swallowed, sugared water may be used as a diluent to encoui'age vomiting ; and muriate of soda in solution will be found the most efficient antidote to nitrate of silver; and ■sulphate of magnesia to acetate of lead. Where an emetic salt, like tartarised antimony, has been taken, copious dilution with common water will in general so provoke vomiting, as to render it its own antidote; but it may be useful to remember that the infusion of galls, and, according to Berthollet, the decoction of bark, at the temperature of from 30" to 40° Fahr. have the power of decomposing it; while Orfila considers milk the most efficient counter poison to the sulphate of zine. Under the names of different poisons the proper remedies to be adopted will be specified. See also Poisons. ANTIMONIAL WINE. See Ajitimony, WXNE OF. ANTIMONY is a metal produced from ores found chiefly in the mines of Hungaiy, Norwav. Saxony, and Sweden. In its metallic state it is used with other metals in making printers' types, and the reflecting specula of telescopes. Its oxides are employed in medicine and in colouring glass. Combined with chlorine it is the butter of antimony, used as a caustic by farriers. Jamesspowder is a phosphate of lime and antimony. Tartar emetic is tartrate of potash and antimony. Formerly metallic antimony was given inter- nally; but as its action depended entirely on the acid which it met with in the stomach, its effects were very uncertain and often violent. Cups were also made of antimony, which im- parted to ■wine that stood in them for some time an emetic quality. But both these im- proper modes of exhibiting this metal are now laid aside. Sulphuretted antimony was employed by the ancients in collyria, against inflammation of the eyes, and for staining the eyebrows black. Its internal use does not seem to have been established till towards the end of the fifteenth century; and even at that time it was by many looked upon as poisonous. Experience has now, however, fufly evinced that it may be administered with perfect safety, and that some of its preparations are medicines of great efficacy. The first decree of the Parliament of Paris against antimony was in 1566. The prejudice against it was for a time so strong, that an able Parisian physician, Paulmier, was expelled from the faculty, in 1609, for having employed it. But by a revolution of opinion, not unusual iii the medical profession, it was admitted by the faculty into the " Antidotarium," published in 1637. It was much emploj'ed about 1650; but Guy Patin and some others considered it as a poison, and entitled a large register, " Martyrologe de rAntimoine." IDuring this dispute the doctors of the faculty assembled on the 9th of March, 1666, to decide the point; on which occasion ninety-two voted for the ad- mission of antimonial wine, and the parlia- ment authorised it by a decree of 10th of April, 1666. The general effects of antimonials are, in small doses, promoting perspiration and nausea; in large doses, full vomiting and purging. Some allege that antimonials ai'e of most use in fevers when they do not produce any sensible evacua- tion, as is said to be the case sometimes with James's powder. They, therefore, prefer it in typhus, and emetic tartar in higlily inflamma- tory fevers, in which there is the appearance at first of more activity in the system, and more apparent cause for evacuation.