EDU [ 453 ] EDU rated at Is. 9d. per vreek, and. though a child in arms will not cost so much, the extra nourish- ment the mother requires in giving suck will be fully equivalent to it. There are other considerations which may conspire to ease the burden and make ends meet, of which every industrious couple will know from necessity how to avail themselves. EDUCATION. We shall confine our notes to the period that a child is in the nursery— that of earliest childhood. After that period education must be confided to masters, and no rules can be established of general applica- bility. The selection of tutors must be deter- mined by too many circumstances to admit of specific advice in these pages. " Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it," says Solomon; and, although this sublime moral advice does not amount to an axiom, the cor- rectness of the maxim is so far-established that, should its early inculcation be neglected or deferred, the bias of the future mind is deterio- rated in a tenfold ratio. On parents, therefore, it depends whether their children shall prove a blessing or a curse—whether they shall comfort their declining years, or bring down their grey hairs with sorrow to the grave. On the basis of religion must their happiness be founded, and the existence of a Supreme and Invisible Being the first knowledge that is imprinted on their weak and tender minds. When children are permitted by nature to notice the beautiful varieties of the creation, teach them to believe that to the hand of an all-merciful and bene- ficent Creator we owe their formation, that they are sent to us as the reward and encourage- ment of virtue, and that to act in opposition to the divine will would be the surest means to deprive us of every benefit we enjoy. Instead of terrifying their weak imaginations by the representation of a thousand frightful monsters to them, such as old Boby, the chininey-sueep, or any other of the like smutty tribe, to whom they are to be consigned when they commit a fault, or punishing them in any other manner, or, on the contrary, flattering their little minds with delusive hopes to bribe them to their duty, teach and encourage them to be good for virtue's sake ; tell them that an all-seeing Eye is witness to their most private faults, and that to Heaven they must look for their rewai'd or punishment; and, although the system of bribery is un- questionably a bad thing either in the senate or the family circle, children should by no means be discouraged so far as to suffer their little merits to pass unnoticed and disregarded. They should be taught, from precept and example, to know that a good action is always sure to meet with a suitable acknowledgment, if not at all times with a reward; whilst at the same time, to guard them against the insinuating influence of vanity, it should be equally inculcated that, in the execution of whatever they may have so ably and so obediently accomplished, they have acted in no other manner than as dutiful and becoming children. It is the opinion of many that children of three or four years of age are too young to attend public worship. We, however, are of a different opinion save one exception, namely, as regards the season of the year, which we shall consequently explain. It is certainly true that a child at the age of three years, or even four, cannot be imagined to understand the full ex- planation of prayer and thanksgiving; never- theless, though not capable of accompanying a congregation in those solemn acts of devotion, they may doubtless be inspired with a reverent awe of their divine Creator, and thus, by a constant attendance at the house of God, be brought to an early ^)ractice of piety and religion. If there be anything objectionable in taking young children to places of worship it is during the winter season, where, from sitting in a,a almost empty pew, the cold is so severe as to diminish the heat of the body below the n9.tural standard ; the force of the circulation is not able to resist its influence; and, as young children have to encounter a variety of changes, inci- dental and accidental, which, for want of proper attention to their little comforts, might be both accelerated and aggravated by exposure to cold and moisture—on the other hand, crowded congregations are frequently attended with the pernicious effects resulting from sudden transi- tions, which the tender frame is equally as ill adapted to encounter—then only we admit that young children are better at home within the range of a move uniform degree of tempera- ture. No one can doubt that children are born with various dispositions, or the germs of such dispositions; and it is equally true that by proper and timely management these dis- positions may be so changed and meliorated by the attention of a parent, or those to whom they are intrusted, that not only their little blemishes may be smoothed away, but even those things which more offensively distinguish the child may, by proper discipline, become the charac- teristic ornaments of the man. " In respect to the desires of children," observes Dr, Parr, " it is hardly possible to lay down any general rule; but the best method of inuring them to dis- appointment is, perhaps, rather to call off their thoughts to some new gratifications than to drive them forcibly from any favourite pursuit. Their inclinations are keen, but fickle, and