DIS DIN [ 419 ] All this must be very acceptable to those to whom the pleasures of the table are a favourite, and perhaps a pre-eminent object; but it cannot ultimately teed to promote health or longevity. In regard to dinners in this country they are in general too quickly gone through. Too much meat is put upon the table at once, and sufficient time is not allowed to masticate the food pro- perly; nor should each division of dishes be hurried upon the table, as well as from it, but an interval allowed for conversation to give the stomach some rest, and not to overload it too much at once, which necessarily occasions a defective digestion. DINNER PILLS (Lady Webster's). See Cekspignys (Lady) Pills. DIPPEL'S OIL is slowly distilled from oil of hartshorn. It is antispasmodic, soothing, and promotive of pei'spiration if given in doses of from ten to thirty drops in water. In large doses it is violently poisonous. DISLOCATIONS. When a bone is moved out of its place or articulation so as to impede its proper functions it is said lo be limiled or dislocated. As this often happens to persons in situations where no medical assistance can be obtained, by which means limbs and even lives are frequently lost, we shall endeavour to point out the method of reducing the most common luxations, and those which require immediate assistance. Any person of common sense and resolution, who is present when a dislocation happens, may often be of nore service to the patient than the most expert surgeon can after the swelling and inflammation have come on. When these are present it is difficult to know the state of the joint, and dangerous to attempt a reduction, and by waiting till they are gone off the muscles become so relaxed, and the cavity filled up, that the bone can never after- wards be retained in its place. A recent dislocation may generally be reduced by extension alone, which must always be greater or less according to the strength of the muscles which move the joint, the age, robustness, and other circumstances of the patient. When the bone has been out of its place for any consider- able time, and a swelling or inflammation has come on, it will be necessary to bleed the patient, and, after fomenting the part, to apply soft poul- tices with vinegar to it for some time before the reduction is attempted. All that is necessary after the reduction is to apply cloths dipped in vinegar or camphorated spirits of wine to the part, and to keep it perfectly easy : many bad consequences proceed from the neglect of this rule. A dislocation seldom happens without the tendons and ligaments of the jonit being stretched, and sometimes torn. ^ Wheu these aie kept easy till they recover their strength and tone all goes on very well, but if the injuiy be increased by too frequent an exer- tion of the parts, no wonder if they be found weak and diseased ever after. Dislocation of the jaw. The lower jaw may be luxated by yawning, blows, falls, chewing hai-d substances, or the like. It is easily known from the patient's being I'.nable to shut his mouth or to eat anything, as the teeth of the under jaw do not correspond with those of the upper; besides, the chin either hangs down or is thrown towards one side, and the patient is neither able to speak distinctly nor to swallow without considerable difficulty. The usual method of reducing a dislocated jaw is to set the patient upon a low stool, so as an assistant may hold the head firmly by pressing it against his breast. The operator is then to thrust his two thumbs, being first wrapped up with linen cloths that they may not slip, as far back into the patient's mouth as he can, whila his fingers are applied to the jaw externally. After he has got firm hold of the jaw he is to press it strongly downwards and backwards, by which means the elapsed beads of the jaw may be easily pushed into their former cavities. Dislocation of the neck. The neck may be dislocated by falls, violent blows, or the like. In this case, if the patient receives no assistance, he soon dies, which makes people imagine tho neck was broken ; it is, however, for the most part only partially dislocated, and may be re- duced by almost any person who has resolution enough to attempt it. A complete dislocation of the neck is instantaneous death. When the neck is dislocated the patient is immediately deprived of all sense and motion, his neck swells, his countenance appears bloated, his chin lies upon his breast, and his face ig - generally turned towards one side. To reduce this dislocation the unhappy person should immediately be laid upon his back on the ground, and the operator must place himself behind him, so as to be able to lay hold of his head with both hands, while he makes a resist- ance by placing his knees against the patient's shoulders. In this posture he must pull the head with considerable force, gently twisting it at the same time, if the face be turned to onft side, till he perceives that the joint is replaced, which may be known from the noise the bones generally make when going in, the patient's beginning to breathe, and the head continuing in its natural posture. After the neck is reduced the patient ought to be bled, and should be suffered to rest for some days till the parts recover their proper tone. Dislocation of the ribs. As the articulatioa of the ribs with the back-bone is very strong.