FUR FUR [ 536 ] against in the first instance, as tending to encourage the increase of moths and other insects. Many things are used as preventives against the inroads of moths, such as sprinkling furs and woollens with spirits of turpentine, putting camphor, peppercorns, cedar shavings, find Russian leather amongst them ; hut the best plan is to sew the furs up in linen well tired, through which the moth cannot penetrate; and once or twice in the course of the summer to have them taken out on fine sunny days, and, after being well shaken, replaced in their envelopes, and put aside. Wash white furs in a cold lather of soap and water, with a small portion of soda and blue mixed into it; then draw them through the hand the same as a flannel through several lathers until they ai'e quite clean, rinse them in clean water, and after shaking them well hang them up to dry, They must he shaken often while drying, and they will look as well as new. A fur flounce is fixed only at its upper edge by being felled down, the lower edge remaining free. If the fur be in the form of bordering for edges it is felled down at the inner edge like a flouncing, and the lining of the garment is run against the other edge. A fur collar has generally to he lined with silk before it is set on. It is slightly wadded to preserve the silk from being rubbed and worn by the leather. The raw edge of the silk being turned in, the lining is then I'un with a double running against the back of the fur. The collar is then stitched to the cloak or pelisse, and the lining felled down, or the join is backed by a stout ribbon. FUR IN KETTLES. The calcareous de- posit in kettles, usually called " the fur," arises either from the gypsum (sulphate of lime) or the chalk (carbonate of lime) in the water boiled in them. These salts are kept dissolved in the water by the carbonic acid gas it contains, and when this gas is driven off by the boiling the salts fall upon the bottom and sides, and are baked into the hard crust. If gypsum is the cause of the fur, as much carbonate of ammonia as will lie upon a sixpence, put into a two-quart kettle when first put upon the fire, or the same quantity of sulphate of ammonia if the fur arises from chalk, will prevent the evil. FURMENTY and Firmitv. See Frumpntt. FURNITURE RALLS. See Balls, Fub- UITUEE. FURNITURE, CLEANING. If mahogany has been cleaned with a mixture of a dark colour, and the furniture has become old, it will be impossible to make it look light-coloured unless it be planed. This is not easily done ; therefore when it is of a light colour, and is to be kept so, you must be very particular in what mixture you put on it, as none which is of a dark colour should be put on mahogany which is intended to be kept a light colour. If you have two sorts of mahogany, that is, light and dark, you should have two sorts of paste or oil to do them with , but if the dai-k mahogany be as dark as it is wanted, the paste or oil which is used for the light will do for the dark, as the polish will not be affected by its colour; and it may, therefore, in such case, be used for both without keeping two sorts. Keep your paste or oil in a proper can or jar, that you may not run any risk of upsetting it when you are using it. Whether you use oil or paste you must have two pieces of woollen cloth, one for rubbing it on, the other for rubbing it dry and polishing; you must likewise have an old linen cloth to finish with, which you should keep for this use only, and not dirty it with anything else. Have a piece of smooth soft cork to rub out the stains with, and use a brush if the paste is hard, as you will not be able to put it on with a woollen cloth if it is very stiff. Always dust the table well before the oil or paste is put on, and if it should be stained with anything rub it with a damp sponge, and then with a dry cloth. If the stain does not disappear rub it well with the cork or a brush; but let it be rubbed the way the wood grows, for if you rub it cross-grained you will scratch it. Be careful to keep the cork and brush free from dust and dirt. When you have cleaned the dust off, and got the stains out, put on your oil or paste, but not too much at a time, and rub it well into the wood. If you use oil be as quick as you possibly can in rubbing it over the table, and then polish it with another woollen cloth. If you use wax put a little bit on the woollen cloth with your finger, or a small stick: rub it well with this till the table looks of a high polish, and then have another cloth to finish it with. If you use paste and oil to different furniture you must have different cloths to rub it with : do not use one for the other, as it will not answer to do so. Be very careful to have the edges of the tables well cleaned, and the oil and wax well rubbed off: if this be not attended to the ladies and gentlemen will get their clothes dirtied when sitting near the table. It perhaps will be necessary to wash the tahles sometimes, as, where too much wax or oil has been put on, and not well rubbed off, the dust will settle, and you will find it im- possible to get it off without. In such cases they must be washed all over with a sponge or flannel dipped in hot beer; then rub them dry as quickly as possible with a linen cloth, and put the oil or paste on as before directed,