[ 63 ] BAN BAN BANDAGES consist generally of strips of linen or calico., but sometimes of flannel, varying in width from three to five inches, and from about three to twelve yards in length. They must be rolled up before being used. There are other sorts of bandages besides those just described, amongst which are the many-tailed and T bandages, but which need not be described here, as they require to be applied by a prac- titioner. In bandaging, always begin from be- low upwards, that is, begin at the part farthest from the heart. Bandages are used for two purposes, namely, for supporting weak joints, sprains, &c., and for wounds or other injuries, and for keeping the edges of cuts together, made in bleeding or in any other surgical operation. In bandaging the wrist for a sprain or strain, begin by passing the bandage in the shape of the figure of 8 round the hand, excluding the thumb, and finish by passing it once or twice round the wrist. If you wish to extend your bandage farther up the arm, carefully turn the bandage upon itself (see fig. No. 1). The best width for the bandage for this purpose is about two inches, and its length three yards. For a sprained ancle, the end of the bandage is to be placed on the instep, then the bandage to be carried behind the ancle again across the instep, and round the foot two or three times, and finished off by a twist or two round the leg above the ancle. If you wish to extend the bandaging up the legs, for varicose, or enlarged veins, continue it as is shown in fig. ii, finishing at the knee. Care must be taken to keep the bandage equally tight over the whole leg, or it will swell and perhaps produce more serious consequences. The way to bandage a finger for a cut to save sewing or pinning is, after passing the bandage over the fingers, to split the end so as to be enabled to tie it, by bringing one end to one side of the finger, and the other end by the other side of the finger. If after a person has been bled the bandage becomes loose, it may be easily tightened, by first taking off the bandage and pressing a thumb upon the opening, then placing a piece of linen or lint, previously folded into a small pad, at least half an inch thick over the wound, and passing over it a bandage in the shape of the figure of 8, rather tightly, as is shown in fig. 3. BANDELINE. This, used by ladies to prevent curls from being disarranged, has the appearance and properties of gum water. It is sometimes called clysphitique, and fixatrice or fixature. It is prepared by gently boiling 1 oz. of bruised quince seed in 3 pints of water for several hours; strain the gummy liquid through muslin, and, when nearly cold, add to it a few drops of essence of bitter almonds, or any other scent preferred. Keep it well corked in a wide- mouthed bottle. Exposed to the air it soon spoils. Quince seeds are sold by druggists. BANDY LEGS, a vernacular expression applied to distorted or crooked legs. In some cases this is a natural defect in the birth, though it may more frequently be ascribed to an im- proper treatment of infants by indolent or officious nurses. The former will sometimes suffer an infant, scarcely twelve months old, to stand for hours on its legs while confined in a chair, or an absurd machinery contrived for walking: the latter are too impatient to give early specimens of a child's vigour, and daily try experiments with its tender legs before they are able to sustain the weight of the body. When an infant is born with bandy legs, daily and long rubbing on the convex side of the leg, and the timely and judicious use of the bandage may, by imperceptible degrees, correct this de- fect ; but it requires more patience and peise-