FLO FLO [ 510 ] lemon or orange-peel, three or four hard yolks of eggs chopped finely, two or three gi-ated biscuits, or some crumbs of bread, a little beaten mace, cloves, nutmeg, and salt, with a glass of white wine and some orange-flower water. Mix the whole of these well, then lay a sheet of puff paste at the bottom of a dish, and put in the minced meat with the ingredients; cover the whole with a crust, and bake it in a slack oven. When done serve it up with sugar scraped over it. FLOUNDER PIE. Thoroughly clean some flounders, dry them in a cloth, just boil them, cut off the flesh close to the bone, lay a good crust over the dish, and a little butter at the bottom ; then put in the fish, and season -with pepper and salt to your palate. Boil the bones in the water the fish was boiled in, with a little piece of horseradish, a little parsley, a very small piece oi lemon-peel, and a crust of bread ; boil till there is just liquor enough for the pie, then strain it, and put it into a dish ; put on the top, and let it bake. FLOUNDER SOUP. Take twelve middling- sized flounders, clean them well, and boil them in as much water as will fill a tureen of a moderate size; add thereto a whole onion, some thyme, basil, parsley, horseradish, whole white pepper, and a little salt; boil the whole till dissolved, cut a small stale loaf into thin slices, and dip them into the yolks of eggs; put a piece of fresh butter into a stewpan, and fry the bread on both sides of a pale brown ; strain the soup, add to it the bread, and let it boil half an hour. In the meantime have ready a stew- pan of boiling dripping; then take six of the smallest flounders, dip them first in the yolks of eggs, and next in bread crumbs ; fry them in the dripping till sufficiently done, and lay them on the back of a sieve to drain, after which strain off the soup, and dish it up with the flounders and some pieces of fried bread. FLOUNDERS: To Boil. Put on a stew- pan with a sufficient quantity of water to cover the flounders which are to be dressed, and put in some vinegar and horseradish. When the water boils put in the fish, having first well cleaned them and cut o£f their fins. They must not boil too fast for fear they should break. When they are sufficiently done lay them on a fish plate, the tails in the middle. Serve them with parsley and butter. FLOUNDERS: To Cnoose. They should be thick and stiff, their eyes bright and full, and must be dressed as fresh as possible, as they very soon become flabby and bad. They are both a sea and river fish. They are in season from January to March, and from July to September. FLOUNDERS, FRICASSEED. Carefully clean the fish, and take off the black skin, but not the white ; cut the flesh from the bones into long slices, and dip them in yolk of egg ; sti'ew them over with bread raspings, and fry them in clarified butter. When they are sufficiently done lay them on a plate, and keep them hot. For sauce take the bones of the fish, and boil them in water ; then put in an anchovy, some thyme, parsley, a little pepper, salt, cloves, and mace. Let these simmer till the anchovy is dis- solved ; then take the butter the fish was fried in, put it into a pan over the fire, shake soma flour into it, and keep it stirring whilst the flour is shaldng in; then strain the liquor into it, and boil it till it becomes thick; squeeze some lemon juice into it, place the fish on a dish, and pour the sauce over it. FLOUNDERS, FRIED. Well rub them inside and out with salt, and then let them lie for two hours to give them some firmness ; dip them into egg, cover them with crumbs, and fry them a nice brown. FLOUNDERS, STEWED. Take some flounders, and fry them of a nice brown; then take them up, and add to the butter they were fried in a sufficient quantity of water to make sauce for the fish that are done—to a quart of water two anchovies and an onion cut in slices, a spoonful of catsup, and two spoons- ful of red wine. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, put it to the fish, and let them stew gently a quarter of an hour; then take them out, put them into a warm dish, and thicken the sauce with butter and flour; give it a boil, strain it off, and pour it over the fish, FLOUR. {See Beead.) We shall confine our notes entirely to the fiour of wheat. Flour ought not to be used immediately from the mill; but it should be kept in a dry place for several weeks, and stirred every day in summer, and at least every other day in colder seasons. By the mealmen in the neighbourhood of London wheat is divided into no less than seven distinct kinds of flour. The folloAving are the average proportions of these obtained from a quarter of wheat:— bills. pki5. Fine flour . . o 3 Seconds . . 0 Fine middlings . . (1 1 Coarse ditto . ; . 0 0-0 3 0 Twentv-penny . . 3 0 Pollard . . 2 0 14 2-5 Thus we see wheat almost doubles its bulk by being ground into flour. During the bolting of the flour a fine white gritty substance called sharps is obtained. It constitutes the centre and finest part of the