[ 201 ] CAE CAE 1J lb. of sifted flour, and roll it out thin into a square sheet. Have ready a mixture of brown sugar, fresh butter, and a large portion of ground cinnamon, all stirred together very lightly. Spread this mixture thickly over the sheet of paste; then roll it up as you would a rolled-up marmalade pudding. After it is rolled up cut it down into pieces or cakes of equal size, and press them rather flat. Have ready over a fire a skillet or frying-pan with plenty of fresh butter boiling hard. Put in some of the cakes, and fry them brown. As fast as they are done take them out with a perforated skimmer; drain off the butter, and lay them on a hot dish. Then put in more cakes till all are fried. They should be eaten warm, first sifting powdered white sugar over them. CAKE, COCOA-NUT. Cut up and peel some very ripe cocoa-nut. Lay the pieces for a while in cold water. Then take them out, wipe them very dry, and grate very fine as much as when grated will weigh half a pound. Powder ^ lb. of the best loaf sugar. Beat 8 eggs till very light, thick, and smooth; then stir the grated cocoa-nut and the powdered sugar alternately into the pan of beaten egg, a little at a time of each, adding a handful of sifted flour, a pov/dered nutmeg, and a glass of sweet wine. Stir the wliole very hard. Batter a square tin pan, put in the mixture, set it im- mediately into a quick oven, and bake it well, seeing that the heat is well kept up all the time. When cool cut it into squares. Have ready a thick icing, made of powdered sugar and white of egg, flavoured with rose water or extract of roses. Ice each square of the cake all over the top and sides. You may bake it in a loaf, or in a deep, circular pan. Ice the whole surface and ornament it. For a large cake, baked in a loaf, allow 1 lb. of grated cocoa-nut, 1 lb. of sugar, 16 eggs, 2 hand ful of flour, and 2 glasses of wine. It will require very long baking. CAKE, COMMON. Rub into 1 lb. of flour ilb. of good butter; mix with two well-beaten eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of fresh yeast, as much warm milk as will make the flour into a very thick batter. Let this remain near the fire, covered with a cloth, for an hour. Then mix into it 6 ozs. of good brown sugar, and 9 ozs. of well-cleaned and dried currants ; let it stand again for half an hour, and bake it in a buttered tin for an hour. CAKE, CREAM. Sift some double-refined sugar; beat the whites of 7 or 8 eggs; shake in as many spoonsful of sugar ; grate in the rind of a large lemon; drop the froth on a paper, laid on tins, in lumps at a distance; sift a good deal of sugar over them ; set them in a moderate oven; the froth will rise; just colour them. You may put raspberry jam, and stick two bottoms together. Put them in a cool oven to dry. CAKE, CURRANT. Take i lb. of cleaned and dried currants, the same quantity of dried and sifted flour, ^ lb. of pounded sugar, ^ lb. of fresh butter, 4 yolks and 3 whites of eggs, both well beaten, and a little grated nutmeg or pounded cinnamon. Then beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar, and then the eggs and the flour. Beat these well for twenty minutes ; mix in the currants and grated nutmeg. Drop the cakes in a round form upon buttered paper, or bake them in small tins in a quick oven. CAKE, DRY. Rub 1 lb. of butter into 1 lb. of flour and 1 lb. of sifted sugar (the butter should be soaked all night in orange or rose water). Whip the whites of 8 eggs to a snow; beat the yolks of 6 eggs with a little brandy; mix this very well; butter the pans ; only half fill them. They are baked in half an hour in a brisk, not a scorching oven. They will keep half a year. If agreeable make them with, currants ; put f lb. CAKE, DUTCH. Take 5 lbs. of flour, 2 ozs. of caraway seeds, i lb. of sugar, and something more than a pint of milk; put into it f lb. of butter; then make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put in a pint of good ale-yeast; pour in the butter and milk, and make these into a paste, letting it stand a quarter of an hour before the fire to rise ; then mould and roll it into cakes, pretty thin ; prick them all over, or they will blister, and bake them a quarter of an hour. CAKE, FAMILY. Take rice and wheat- flour of each 6 ozs., the yolks and whites of 9 eggs, 4 Ih. of lump sugar, pounded and sifted, and i oz. of caraway seeds. Having beaten this one hour, bake it for the same time in a quick oven. This is a very light cake, and is very proper for young people and delicate stomachs. CAKE, FRENCH. Take a quart of sifted flour, make a sponge, add to it 1 oz. of salt, 2 ozs. of sugar, 1^ lb. of butter, and 12 eggs; mix the whole well together ; work up your paste ; if it is too stiff moisten it with a little milk; then leave it to stand for half an hour; then add to it t lb. of butter and give it four turns, the same as puff"-paste. Put your cake into a mould, lay it very thick, cut the edges in the form of a lozenge, gild it, put it into a baking- tin, ornament it, and let it bake for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. CAKE, FRUIT. See Cake, Peach. CAKE, GUM. Take gum tragacanth, let it lie all night in rose water till it is dissolved; have double-refined sugar, beaten and seared, and mix your gum and sugar together; make it up into a paste, then roll up some plain and some with herbs and flowers ;^by-the-by, you may use