BGI BLU [ 132 ] will be fl.iLby, and little else but skin and bones. By placing the thumb on each side cf the vent, and pressing it hard, the air will escape, and the imposition be detected. BLUE. Laundresses use two preparations in washing: 1. Stone blue, called also crown, fig, Imoh, Mecldenhurc/, queeiis, and thumb blue. This is prepared by mixing powdered indigo with starch-paste, and making into cakes of any de- sired size or form. 2. Powder blue is oxide of cobalt ground to the finest powder possible with flint glass. BLUE, LIQUID. Add to 1 oz. of powdered Prussian blue 2 ozs. of hydrochloric acid; let the mixture remain for twenty-four hours, aud then add 9 ozs. of water. BLUE OINTMENT. Take 1 oz. of puri- fied quicksilver, or mercury; mutton suet, 1 oz.; and hogs' lard, 3 ozs. Kub the mercury with a little of the lard in a warmed marble mortar perseveringly until the globules of mercuiy dis- appear entirely, then add the rest of the lard and suet, and mix thoroughly. Keep it in a covered ointment pot. This ointment is used chiefly for conveying mercury into the body by rubbing it on the skin. BOARD WAGES. For ordinary servants, and under ordinary circumstances, the usual rule is to allow one shilling a day in addition to the wages for w'hich they were hired. BOAEDS. Soap should not be employed for scouring boards. The use of any kind of soap for such a purpose is extravagant, and the smell of soft-soap is very offensive. A mixture of 1 lb. of slaked lime and 3 lbs. of vei'y fine sand, if used with a hard scrubbing-brush, makes the boards clean and white, destroys vermin, and is very economical. To remove grease and oil stains from boards scrub them with the same mixture, adding 1 spoonful of common washerwoman's soda to 3 spoonsful of the mixture. Fullers' earth, mixed into a thin paste with water, put npon the stains, and allowed to remain all night, will sometimes remove them entirely, and always facilitates their removal by scrubbing. BOOKINGS. Mix 3 ozs. of buckwheat flour with a tea-cupful of warm milk and a spoonful of yeast; let it rise before the fire for an hour ; then beat up 4 eggs and as much milk as will make a good batter, and fry them in it. BOILING. The operation of boiling meat has been too commonly treated as a depart- ment of cookery that requires no art at all. Hence we may possibly trace, in the slovenly management of the pot, the well-known adage that a " leg of mutton boiled is a leg of mutton spoiled;" whilst, with due deference to old say- ings,, which generally have originated in truth and ex[)erience, we are to be numbered among those who think a leg of mutton boiled one of the most delectable plain dishes that belong to the old English school of unsophisticated cookery. But the joint must be judiciously chosen, sutli- ciently kept, and skilfully cooked : for, simple as it may appear, there is no small skill requned in the management of the arcana of the pot. Hard water is impi'oper for boiling meat, and where soft is not to be procured the cook can- not be expected to do justice, even with the greatest attention to her business. So with pulse, a peas-pudding is an abomination if not boiled in soft water It is now an established point among the best authorities that the meat should be im- mersed in the pot upon the fire whilst the water is cold, that it may become progressively heated with the water, and thereby gradually boiled ; for, by not immersing it in the water until hot, as of old, the sudden transition from cold to heat not only rendered the meat dark in complexioi^, but tough. Cooks should be careful in managing the form of certain meat for the pot, either by skeweriug or tying where necessary ; for shapeless masses of flesh of unequal thickness cannot be equally cooked, as the thinner parts must be, of ne- cessity, overdone before the thicker portion is equally acted upon by the boiling water. All meats are best cooked, whether by steam or immersion, by being slowly or gently boiled ; con- sequently, the fire must be properly attended to, and a vigilant eye kept upon the state of the pot. Modern experiments, thanks to the enlight- ened few who have applied the science of che- mistry to the improvement of the culinary art, have proved that water for all the purposes of this department of cooking can but boil. That galloping bustle of the pot and flapping of the cover, which alone satisfied the impatient, and even notable housewives of the last age, are now proved to have been mere « Hubble, bubble. Toil and trouble," to no other end than to save a little time at an enormous expense of fuel, and thus converting excellent meat from the larder into an execrable dish for the table. Hence many domestic broils upon unsuccessful boils in those days when even the potent demonstrations of science were vainly opposed to the prejudices of the boiling pot. Salted meats, above all other animal aliments, should be slowly boiled. Indeed, for these the pot should be kept in a simmering state, which cannot be mana^ged without vigilance, as it is indispensable that the fire should be attended to ; for one act of the poker by an impatient hand may set the pot into a too violent state of boiling, whilst too low a fire, from inatten- tion, may reduce the heat of the water so as to injure the meat; for too low as well as too