C 23 ] ANT ANI biscuits into whatever form you please. Dry them in the oven until they become brittle. ANISE CAKES. Put in an earthen pan 8 ozs. of sugar, pounded, and the yolks of 10 eggs; stir them together with a wooden spoon for half an hour. In the meantime have the whites whipped to a thick snow, and then pour in the sugar and yolks. When thoroughly mixed add 1 oz. of good aniseed, previously washed and dried, and 10 ozs. of flour ; stir the whole gently, and then, with a spoon, lay the mixture on white paper in cakes about the size of a crovm piece; sprinkle them with fine sugar, and bake. Remove them from the paper with a knife while hot. ANISEED RATAFIA, or Cordial. To make a quart of this liquor boil 1 lb. of sugar with ^ pint of water until the sugar is quite clear; then heat another i pint of water, and put in it 3 ozs. of aniseed ; take it from the fire before it boils; let it stand a quarter of an hour, and then pour it, with 3 pints of brandy, into the sugar; mix all well together, and then pour into a vessel, which must be closed tight, and placed in the sun. Let it stand three weeks, and then bottle. ANISEED WATER. Choose 8 ozs. of new aniseed; sift it well to free it from the dust, and then infuse in 6 pints of water, with the juice of 3 lemons, and i oz. of cinnamon. In a week's time distil it over a moderate fire; put 1 pint of water into the still; dissolve 3 lbs. of sugar in 3 pints of water. As the anise con- tains an acid salt, which renders this liquor milky, the following proceeding is necessary:ѥ Reserve 1 pint of the water from that in which you dissolved the sugar, and mix it with the white of 3 or 4 eggs, well whipped, and, while the syrup is hot, put to it this egg-water and the aniseed water ; stir it over the fire until the whole is hot, without boiling; then put it into a glass jar, cork it well, and let it stand; the next day filter and bottle. ANISETTE DE BORDEAUX. Take 2 ozs. of green aniseed, | lb. of aniseed, 2 ozs. of coriander, and the same of fennel seed; bruise and put them, with 16 pints of brandy, into an alembic lain marie; that is, a still heated with boiling water; then dissolve 13 lbs. of sugar in 2 quarts of river water, which must be put to your liquor when distilled. Filter and bottle. ANNOTTO. See Aenatto. ANODYNE, any medicine capable of allaying pain. Some are taken internally, and others are applied externally for this purpose. Pain usually arises either from blood stagnating at a par- ticular spot, causing inflammation, or from a deficient circulation of the blood, which causes similarly local exhaustion. Administering ano- dynes requires great caution, for they usually operate upon the brain, causing sleep; and let it always be borne in mind that the frequent use of anodynes increases the necessity for using them. Opium is an anodyne, and he who indulges in taking that seductive drug may remove pain, but gives birth to a craving aa beset with horrors, and concluding in untimely death, as certainly as doth the dram-drinker. If an anodyne causes sleep, it is called a sopo- rific; and if it rapidly diminishes the circula- tion, it is called a sedative. See those headings, as well as Camphob, Foxglove, Hemlock, Henbane, Hydrocyanic (PEnssic) Acid, Nightshade (Deadly), Nightshade (Woody), Opium, Stramonium, Tobacco, Yeast Poul- tice. ANODYNE FOR INFANTS. Take syrup of poppies, 1 oz.; brandy, ^ oz.; and aniseed water, 3 ozs. Give, when requisite, a small tea- spoonful. ANODYNE NECKLACES are of very an- cient usage, but are now fallen into disuse. When formed of the root of Hyoscyamus, or henbane, or of any other powerful sedative they may have soothed the child which sucked them, but modern intelligence points out that remedies are better applied in a more certain form. Such necklaces to be worn by persons of maturer age are mere quackery. Thus Ori- basius recommended, for the cure of epilepsy, a necklace of pseony roots; and Mr. Morley, in a more recent period, ordered, for scrofula, the root of vervain to be tied with a yard of white satin riband around the patient; but both Ori- basius and Mr. Morley ordered most active me- dicines to be taken whilst these necklaces were worn! ANTHELMINTICS are remedies for de- stroying or expelling worms that occur in the bowels. There are three kinds of such worms usually met with, viz., the tape, the thread, and the round. A fourth kind, called the teres, or triangular worm, sometimes occurs. The best mode of destroying the tape worm is to give 2 or 3 table-spoonsful of the oil of turpentine. For thread worms the best medicines are rhu- barb, wormwood, or scammony; or an injection made with 2 table-spoonsful of the oil of tur- pentine and the yolk of 1 egg, well mixed together, and 1 pint of gruel, made either of oatmeal or common flour, added and used warm. Another good injection is made with 1 scruple of aloes and 1 pint of warm soapsuds and water. A good dose for a child of about seven years old, are 5 grains of aloes, or 10 grains of compound powder of jalap. The round worm is readily expelled by any purgative. See Worms. ANTHRACITE. This is known also as culm, blind coal, Kilkenny coal, and glance