CRE CRE [ 373 ] ashes; then pour in the ingredients well mixed together, and as soon as the cream thickens glaze it and serve. ■: CREAM, MAIDEN. Take the whites of ten eggs, and whip them to a froth; put them into a saucepan, with milk, orange-flower water, and sugar ; set a plate over a stove ; put in a little cinnamon; beat up your cream well, and pour it into the plate; then brown it with a red- hot shovel and serve. ; CREAM PANCAKES. Put the yolks of two eggs into half a pint of cream, with 2 ozs. of sugar, a little beaten cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg; mix the whole well together, and then fry them very carefully. , CREAM PATISSifiRE. Put a pint of cream and the same of milk on the fire, stirring constantly till it boils ; then add 2 ozs. of sugar, a little salt, and the rind of a lemon ; when the cream is sufficiently flavoured with the peel beat up the yolks of eight eggs; mix them ■with the cream, and continue to stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon. As soon as it is very thick pour it into a sieve, press it through with a spoon, and then set it by for use ; more eggs must be added if not thick enough for your purpose. CREAM PATISSlfiRE AND CHOCO- LATE CUSTARD. Throw f lb. of chocolate and a clove of vanilla into twelve glasses of milk; cover it, and in a quarter of an hour pass the milk through a napkin; put a few spoonsful of the infusion to the chocolate which remains in the napkin, and pour it into a small pan; then put fib. of flour into a large eaucepan, with four whole eggs and the yolks of twelve ; pour the infusion in by degrees, with a very little salt; set it on a moderate fire, and stir it constantly. As soon as it begins to thicken take it from the fire to prevent its be- coming lumpy; add to it i lb. of powder sugar, 6 ozs. of butter, and dry it for a quarter of an hour, stirring it constantly. When it is a little cooled put in the chocolate and 6 ozs. of sweet macaroons crushed. This preparation will be of the consistence of cream patissiere; if not, add a few spoonsful of whipped cream ; whip the twelve whites of eggs pretty fine, and mix them with the preparation ; then pour it into a raised crust, and finish as usual. CREAM, PISTACHIO. Take ^Ib. of pistachio nuts, throw them into scalding water, and peel off the skin ; put the nuts (not more than two at a time) into a marble mortar, and pound them to a smooth paste, adding frequently as you proceed a few drops of rose water. Sweeten a quart of cream with ^ lb. of powdered loaf sugar, and stir into it gradually the pis- tachio paste ; set the mixture over the fire, and Set it just come to a boil; then take it out, stir in two spoonsful of rose water or peach water, and set it on ice to cool. Either serve it up liquid in a glass bowl, or put it into a freezer, and freeze it as ice cream. If you freeze it you must substitute for rose water or peach water a table-spoonful of extract of roses, or the same quantity of extract of bitter almonds. The process of freezing diminishes the strength ot every sort of flavouring, and of sweetening also. If you serve it up as frozen stick it all over with slips of pistachio nut peeled and sllCGcl CREAM, POMPADOUR. Take the whites of five eggs, and after beating them into a strong froth put them into a tossing pan, with 2 ozs. of sugar and two spoonsful of orange-flower water; stir it gently three minutes, pour it into a dish, and melted butter over it. Serve it hot. C REAM POSSET. Take twelve eggs, leaving out two or three whites; take out all the treads, and beat them well into the basin you make the posset in; add J lb. of sugar, a pint of sack, and a nutmeg grated ; stir it on a chafing dish of coals till it is more than blood warm ; take a quart of sweet cream, and when it boils pour it into a basin ; cover it with a warm plate and a cloth ; then set it on a chafing dish of embers till it is as thick as you wish, and strew on some fine cinnamon. CREAM OF PRESERVED FRUIT. Take i lb. of the pulp of any preserved fruit, put it in a large pan, with the whites of two or three eggs, and beat together well for an hour ; take it off with a spoon, and lay it heaped on a dish or glass salver with other creams, or put it in the middle of a basin. Raspberries will not do this way. CREAM, QUINCE. Take quinces when quite ripe, pare and cut them in quarters, scald them till they are soft, and pulp them through a hair sieve ; mix an equal weight of quince, finely powdered sugar, and the wjites of eggs beaten till as white as gnow. It is then ready to serve. CREAM, RASPBERRY. Mash the fruit gently, and let it drain through a sieve, sprinkling a little sugar on the fruit, which will produce more juice; put the juice to some cream, sweeten it, and then a little milk may be added, but the cream must be put in first, or the milk will curdle. It may be made from jam or jelly when fresh fruit cannot he obtained. If made with jam put 6 ozs. to a pint of cream, pulp it through a sieve, add the juice of a lemon, and whisk it in a shallow dish ; lay the froth on a sieve, adding a little more lemon juice. When no more froth will rise put the cream in a dish or glasses, and heap on the froth. Stbawbeebx Cream may be made in the same way.