ESS [ 476 J ESC thin pieces of tender meat or fish heaten with the handle of a strong knife. ESCHALLOT. -See Shalt.ot. ESPAGNOLE. Take an old fowl and ahout 14 lbs. of leg or shoulder of veal, chop the latter into pieces, and put them with a very little water into a large saucepan, with two canots, three onions, 1 lb. of ham, a few peppercorns, a small quantity of spice, and a clove of garlic; let this stew over a moderate fire, shaking it frequently, till it becomes of a brown colour, when you may add to it a sufficient quantity of hot water to come about four inches above the meat; set it hy the side of the stove to boil gently, skimming when necessary, till the meat comes from the bones ; then strain through a silk sieve, and set it by for use. ESPAGNOLE, GRANDE. Take two 97oz« of veal, a pheasant, or four partridges, half a noix of ham, four or five large carrots, and five onions, one of them stuck with five cloves; put all these into a saucepan, and pour over them a bottle of Madeira wine and a ladleful of jelly; set it over a laige fire to reduce it, and then place it on a slow fire until slightly coloured ; take it off, ai>d let it stand about ten minutes ; prepare some sous-noix as directed for Geakde Sauce, and add the liquor to the Espagnole; skim it well, and put in some roux, two or three bay leaves, a little thyme, mushrooms, parsley, scallions, and shallots. As soon as the sauce boils set the saucepan by the side of a stove to let it do more gently for two or three hours. Be very careful that your saucepan is perfectly clean before you use it, otherwise the Espaguole will be thick and muddy. ESPRITS are the same as Essences. ESSENCE. Take half a bottle of white wine, half a glass of the best vinegar, the juice of two lemons, 3 ozs. of salt, | oz. of whole pepper, a little nutmeg and mace, four cloves, four bay leaves, thyme, parsley, one small clove of garlic, ten shallots pounded, and 1 oz. of dry mushrooms; put all these ingredients into an earthen pan over a brisk fire. When near boiling lessen the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for six or seven hours; then strain it through a coarse sieve, and afterwards filter it. Keep it in closely corked bottles. A small quantity is sufficient to flavour a dish. ESSENCE OE BEEF. When cured beef is stewed or braised the liquor may be reduced as in Essence of Ham. , Brine of beef, bones of ham, and all sorts of juice may be added. When the whole essence has been procured re- duce and strain it through a thick wet napkin, let it cool, and bottle it. ESSENCE OF CAYENNE. Put ^oz. of the pepper into half a pint of white wine or brandy, let it steep a fortnight, and then pour off the clear liquor. This is an excellent season- ing for soups and sauces. ESSENCE OF CELERY. Steep i oz. of celery seed bruised in a quarter of a pint of brandy or proof spirit, and let it stand a fort- niglit. A few drops will be sufficient to flavour a pint of broth, or pea and other soups. ESSENCE OF CINNAMON. Steep 1 drachm of oil of cinnamon in 2 ozs. of rectified spirit of wine. To make a tincture pour a bottle of the best brandy on 3 ozs. of bruised cinnamon. Take care to have genuine cinnamon, not cassia. ESSENCE OP GINGER. Grate 3 ozs. of ginger and 1 oz. of thin lemon-peel into a quart of bi'andy or proof spirit, and let it stand ten days, shaking it up often. This is an ex- cellent stomachic, and one of the best things that can be taken to expel flatulence. ESSENCE OF HAM. Essence of ham is not expensive—so far the reverse that there is much waste when it is not made, and when it is attended to hams are always highly flavoured. If cured at home more attention is paid to the manner of curing them, and also to the manner of cooking, cleaning, and paring, which is of more consequence to the flavour of the ham than is generally imagined. If they are cooked in wine, ale, or cider, these liquors are not lost. When the ham is taken up the essence is either to be immediately finished, or put into a proper pan in a cold cellar till it is convenient; part of it, of course, will be reduced to glaze the ham. When the essence is to be finished take off the cake of fat, and reduce it to one-third ; strain it through a close, wet, linen bag while warm. As ham skin is excellent for covering meats that are braising they may also be put from time to time in the stock pot, as they will dissolve, and add to the flavour and richness of the sauce. ESSENCE OF LEMON. Rasp the lemons very thin; to ^ lb. of raspings allow 1 lb. of sugar, powdered as finely as possible ; mix well till it is all of a colour and well incorporated; press it down into small jars, tie white paper over it, and then leather or bladder, and in one month it will be ready for use. ESSENCE OF ORANGE. Rasp the rind of eighteen China oranges, and squeeze in the juice of six of them; mix the whole well, and boil it in some syrup about twenty minutes, stirring it all the time. When cold put it into bottles for use. * ESSENCE OF OYSTERS. Take 500 or 1000 oysters ; have the shells brushed clean in water ; in opening them save the liquor ; put it upon the fire with the oysters; leave them to boil slowly for eight minutes ; take them up and beard them; beat and pound the beards