[ 304 ] CID CIN cleanse a chub. Wash it, staff it with sweet herbs, and then tie it to the spit with splinters. Roast it; keep basting it with vinegar and butter well seasoned with salt. CIDER. See Cyder. CINCHONA. See Baeks. CINDERS. Great waste of fuel occurs if these are not looked after. They should be sifted from the mere ashes of the grate, and be mixed with an equal portion of small coal. Com- bined they make an excellent fuel. An excellent cinder sifter for housemaids is made like a slop- pail with a sieve inside. For the parlours and bedrooms this may be employed, prevent- ing much dust and trouble, for the sifting is done in the room where the cinders are formed. Cinder or Dust-hole. This, whether large or small, ought, if possible, to have a northern exposure, and always to be furnished with a door, which ought to fit so tightly as to exclude smells. Attached to every dwelling there ought properly to be two dust or refuse holes, one for vegetable and animal matters, dust, ashes, &c., which are convertible into manure, and another (which may always be of much smaller size), for broken earthenware, glass, stones, &c., which are of no use, except for the bottoms of roads or walks, or for grinding into powder, to be used for forming Roman cement or anticorrosion paint. Bones, also, should, if possible, be kept apart in every house, because, when broken and fer- mented, they make a most valuable manure. As few materials thrown into the dust-hole pro- duce more offensive and dangerous smells than recent bones, from the decomposing animal matter remaining on their surface, wherever it is determined to keep them apart it will be well to throw some sifted ashes from the fireplaces of the house in along with them, because the ashes, by absorbing the decomposing matter, prevent it from giving out an offensive smell. In whatever way the dust, ashes, bones, and vegetable refuse of a house are kept, as little moisture as possible ought to be admitted with them, as this promotes putrefaction. See Ash-pit. CINNAMON, CANDIED. See Candied Cinnamon. CINNAMON, CONSERVE OF. Bruise 4 drachms of cinnamon, and dilute it with a little clarified sugar or syrup of mallows. Boil 2 lbs. of sugar to petite casse, throw in the cinna- mon, and stir it well; then take it from the fire, and when the sugar begins to whiten pour the conserve into cases or moulds, and dry it as usual. CINNAMON DRAGfiES (Common). Infuse ^Ib. of gum dragon in as much water as will cover it. The next day put the infusion into a mortar, stir it well with a pestle, and Ihe longer it is stirred the whiter it will beoome. In rather more than a quarter of an hour add to it the caked sugar which was removed from the preserving pan, and which must be well pounded and sifted; also 1 lb. of powder sugar, a spoonful of cinnamon powder, and by degrees 2 or '6 lbs. of flour; moisten the whole occasionally with water. When the paste is of a proper con- sistence place it on a slab or pasteboard, knead it well for a short time, roll it out in sheets not thicker than the eighth of an inch, cut it into slits the same size as the cinnamon, and put them on a paper or sieve in a warm place for some days; then boil some common sugar to perle, and sugar the slips of paste as above directed. Instead of the fine powder, flour is sufficient until the last two layers, when the pow- der may be used to give them whiteness. When of the requisite size lay them on sieves to dry. In a few days they may be curled and coloured, which is done in the same manner as coriander seeds. Observe fine-sugared cinnamon is always white. CINNAMON DRAGfiES (Sugared). Soak i lb. of the best cinnamon (in stick) for twelve hours in water to soften it; at the end of that time cut it into slips, and lay them on a sieve in a warm place for some days. When quite hard and dry boil some fine sugar to the degree grande perle; have ready a quantity of fine pow- der, pour over it one or two large spoonsful of the syrup, and shake it so that all the cinnamon may be wetted; then take a handful or two of the powder, and strew it over the wet cinnamon; shake it again, that the powder may adhere to the cinnamon. After this swing the pan back- wards and forwards, by which means the cinna- mon rolls about in every direction; continue this motion till it becomes dry; then moisten and powder them as before. Swing the pan again, and when dry repeat the process a third, fourth, and fifth time, or more, until the cinnamon is of a proper thickness; those which are to be twisted or curled should not be so thick as the others. Be equally particular in removing the sugar, as it cakes to the bottom of the pan. CINNAMON, ESSENCE OF. This is made by infusing oil of cinnamon in highly rectified spirits of wine, in the proportion of ^ drachm of the former to 1 oz. of the latter. CINNAMON ICE. Infuse some cinnamon in hot water for an hour, and give it a boil; add to the infusion a pint of water and i lb. of sugar. Stir them well together, then put it into the sahotiere, and surround it with ice and salt. Stir it with a flat pewter spoon till it begins to freeze, then put the mixture into your mould, and keep it in ice till ready to serve. CINNAMON PARFAIT AMOUR. For