CHI [ 298 ] CHO may be cleaned in the following manner without injuring the colours:—Grate raw potatoes, washed and peeled, to a fine pulp; add water in the proportion of a pint to a pound of pota- toes ; pass the liquid through a coarse sieve into a vessel, where it is to remain till the fine white starch subsides to the bottom. Pour off the clear mucilaginous liquor, which is to be used for cleaning. To perform this process spread the article to be cleaned upon a table, which should be covered with a linen cloth; dip a sponge in the potato liquor, and apply it till the dirt is removed; then wash the cloth in clean water several times. The coarse pulp which does not pass the sieve will do to clean worsted curtains, carpets, or other coarse furni- ture ; and the white starch that subsides may be employed for starching, or instead of arrow- root. Some use the whole of the pulp and water for the scouring, and others slice the potatoes, and rub them on the stuff as if it was 6oap. I It is sometimes desirable to clean the chintz without unfastening it from the chairs and sofas to which it is nailed. In such cases the follow- ing plan may be adopted:—Wash the chair and sofa covers with soap and warm water, applying it by the aid of a flannel, until all the dirt is removed from them. Whilst wet sponge the covers with a strong solution of salt in water, with a very little bullocks' gall added. Set the chairs and sofas in an airy place to dry. CHIPS, APPLE. Pare and chip the apples, boil them quickly till tender, drain them well, prepare just as much thick syrup as will cover them, boil them quickly till very clear, scald them for three or four successive days, lay them separately, and put them into a stove ; turn, and sift sugar over them. Quinces are done in the same way. CHIPS, APRICOT. Pare the apricots, and slice them very thin crosswise; lay them into the preserving pan, sifting sugar over them as they are laid in ; leave them on a very slow fire for twenty minutes, that the sugar may melt and heat about them; cover them up, leave them till the next day, and put them again on the fire till they become clear; take them up, and spread them on sieves; sift sugar over them, and put them to dry in the sun or oven. Pears are done in the same way; but they ought not to be over ripe. CHIPS, PEACH. Prepare the peaches, cut them in chips, ihake a syrup, and boil them in it till clear; set them aside till the next day, and boil them again. This must be done three or four times. Lay them on wire grills, sift sugar over them, put them in the stove till dry, and pack them in papered boxes. CHITTERLINGS. Take the large gut t)f a pig, and, after having well washed it, cut it into pieces of the length you would wish the chitterlings to be; soak the pieces in a quart of vinegar and water, mixed with thyme, bay leaf, and basil; then chop some of the basil quite small, and mix it with some finely-minced pork. Season the whole with salt, fine spices, and a single aniseed ; then fill the pieces of gut about three parts, as if quite full they will burst in cooking; tie the ends, and boil them in milk and water, throwing in some salt, thyme, bay leaves, basil, and a little flare. When done let them cool in their liquor, and then broil them. CHITTERLINGS PIE. Prepare and cook the chitterlings; mince them finely with the yolks of 6 hard eggs, i lb. of marrow, and a little rasped ham, bacon, or both; season it with white spices, lemon zest, and salt; cover a dish, and put in the meat. It may be covered with paste or crumbs; if crumbs, they must be y/eW covered with tlie yolks of eggs and butter. It is excellent simply with suet and spices; it may be made, however, as rich as sweetbreads, white meats, or any other dish of the same kind. CHITTERLINGS, VEAL. Scald a calf's chawdron and some udder about fifteen minutes, and then cut them into fillets, with 1 lb. of pickled pork. Mix these together, "and add a few chopped shallots, salt, fine spices, 4 spoons ful of cream, and the yolks of 4 eggs. Finish as CHITTKRLtNGS. CHLORIDE OF LIME is very valuable as a disinfectant, as well as for bleaching and removing the stains of fruit, wine, or other vegetable colour from white linen or cotton fabrics. Either this or the chloride of soda is the basis of " Henry's Bleaching Liquid." To destroy contagious or bad-smelling exhala- tions a little of the solution may be sprinkled upon the boards, or poured on a plate, in the place to be purified. For bleaching with it, and for removing stains the same directions apply, see Bleaching. CHOCOLATE. Chocolate is a preparation of the seeds of cacao {see Cacao), which are roasted, pounded, made into a paste, and fla- voured with sugar, vanilla, &c. It is then cast in moulds and dried. It is highly nutritious, and forms the portable soup of travellers between the tropics. The French confectioners make delicious lozenges of it, and the consumption in France, Spain, and Italy is great. {See Cacao.) This forms the common breakfast throughout Spain, and is there made by chipping a portion of the cake, and leaving the chips in water a whole night to soften. It may then be slowly warmed along with either water or milk, working it all the time with the mill, which is a small