[ 310 ] CLA. boiling a little longer, repeat the same operation as Detore, and a larger string will be drawn. Little pearl, or Petite perle. To ascertain this degree separate the finger from the thumb as before, and a large string will be drawn, which will extend to nearly the distance the fingers may be opened. Large pearl, or Grande perle. The finger may now be separated from the thumb to the greatest extent before the thread will break. Crystallisation. This takes the degrees of the blow and feather. The particles of the sugar being now brought together within the sphere of their activity, the attraction of cohe- sion commences, whereby they attach themselves together, and form quadrilateral pyramids, with oblong and rectangular bases. This is generally but improperly termed candy, thereby confound- ing it with the degrees at which it grains, also termed candy. This certainly seems "confusion worse confounded;" but, if things are called by their proper names, many of those seeming diffi- culties and technicalities may be avoided which tend only to confuse and embarrass the young practitioner, without gaining any desired end or purpose. If it were generally classed into the degrees of crystallisation the true meaning and use would at once be explained and understood by the greatest novice. The nature and principle of this operation are these. First, as in the case of syrup, when the water has absorbed as much sugar as it is capable of containing in a cold state, by con- tinuing the boiling a further portion of the solvent (water) is evaporated, and the sugar remains in excess, which, when exposed to a less degree of heat, separates itself, and forms crystals on the surface and sides of the vessel in which it is contained, and also on anything placed or suspended in it. But if it is exposed too suddenly to the cold, or disturbed in its action by being shaken, or if the boiling has continued too long, the crystals will form in'e- gularly, by the particles being brought in too close contact, and run too hastily together, form- ing a mass or lump. To obtain this part in perfection the boiling should be gradual, and continued no longer than till a few drops let fall on a cold surface show a crystalline appearance, or after being removed from the fire a thin skin will form upon the surface. It should then be taken from the fire, and placed in a less hot but not cold place, and covered or put into a stove or closet to prevent the access of cold air. A few drops of spirits of wine added when the sugar has attained the proper degree will conduce to a more perfect crystalline form, scarcely attainable by any other means, as it has a great afifinity with the water, thereby causing the sugar to separate itself more freely. It must be used with caution, as too much will cause it to grain. To ascertain the degree of lloiv, or souffle, continue the boiling of the sugar, dip a skim- mer in it, and shake it over the pan; then blow through the holes, and, if small bubbles or air bladders are seen on the other side, it has ac- quired this degree. The feather, or Grande plume. Dip tlie skim- mer again into the sugar, blow through the holes as before, and the bubbles will appear larger and stronger. Or, if you give the skim-r raer a sudden jerk, so as to throw the sugar from you, when it has acquired the degree it will appear hanging from the skimmer in fine long strings. Candy. Sugar, after it has passed the degree of feather, is of itself naturally inclined to grain, that is, to candy, and will form a powder if agi- tated or stirred; for, as the boiling is continued, so is the water evaporated until there is nothing left to hold it in solution; therefore, that body being destroyed by heat, which first changed its original form to those we have already enume- rated, as this no longer exists with it, it natu- rally returns to the same state as it was in before the solvent was added, which is that of minute crystals or grains, being held together by the attraction of cohesion, unless, as before stated, they are separated by stirring, &c. The sugar, being evaporated by boiling from the state of feather, leaves a thin crust of crys- tals round the sides of the pan, which shows it has attained the candy height; and this crust must be carefully removed as it forms with a damp cloth or sponge, or the whole mass will candy if suffered to remain. To prevent this is the chief desideratum, all further proceedings for which specific rules will be given in their proper places. The remaining degrees can be ascertained after the following manner. The ball, or Gros houlet. Provide a jug of clean cold water, and the stem of a clean tobacco pipe or a round stick. First dip the pipe or stick in the water, then in the sugar, and again in the water; take cff the sugar which has adhered to it, and endeavour to roll it into a ball between the finger and thumb in the water: when this can be done it has attained the desired degree. If it forms a large hard ball, which will bite hard and adhere to the teeth when eaten, it is then termed the large ball, et contra. The crack. Follow the directions given for ball. Slip the sugar off from the pipe or stick, still holding it in the water; then press it between the finger and thumb If it breaks short and crisp, with a slight noise, it is at the crack. Caramel. To obtain this degree it requires care and attention, and also to be frequently tried, as it passes speedily from the crack to the