BEE BRE [ 150 ] coarser sort. However, it is desirable to mahe fiue bread occasionally; and, indeed, medically considered, it is the most suitable to persons who are subject to a relaxed state of the stomach. Brown Bread of exceedingly fine flavour can be economically made by mixing 5 parts of grist tiour (a term we shall shortly explain) with i part of the finest pollard [middlings or toppings, as they are locally styled). We prefer this mixed meal, believing it to be cleaner and more pure than the coarse, cheap flour of the mills. Grist flour is always to be preferred for every purpose, excepting that of making pastry. It is made from the best wheat, divested of the coarse bran only. None can have this fine and sweet flour but those who purchase wheat and send it to the mill: Is. (irf. or 2s. per sack is paid for the grinding, and the bran and flour are both delivered back to the purchaser. A sack of wheat weighs iJlOlbs.: if 190 lbs. of flour be sent home from the mill, and from 40 lbs. to 45 lbs. of bran, the wheat may be considered of very good quality ; we have seen only 178 lbs. of flour returned from a sack of wheat. After these remarks we shall presume that 24 lbs. of the mixed flour be used to make a small batch of family bread; as it will absoi'b water to a great extent, 32 lbs. will be the final result: 24 lbs. of white flour will not ordinarily yield more than 30 lbs. or 31 lbs. A large family may be supposed to bake a bushel of flour weekly; but as one composed of only three or four persons cannot consume so much, we prefer to confine our calculations to 24 lbs. of flour, which will afford us the grounds of a very ready estimate of quantities and results. But in order to convert flour to bread it must undergo fermentation. Neither dough nor beer will ferment well unless it be brought to 60째, and as the former must be completed in a few hours, not less than 70째 or 75째 ought to be applied. However, not to mul- tiply (iifiiculties, we will state that 1 pint of really good, thick yeast should be employed if the batch to be baked contains 1 bushel of flour, and that the 24 lbs. named will take \ pint of brewers' yeast, or a large tea-cupful of the thick sediment from that of home-brewed beer. In either case the yeast is to be diluted with a pint of milkwarm water (98째) or sweetwort. The management of this ferment is of the greatest importance, and the yeast of home- brewed beer is rnuch to be preferred; but it is veiy bitter in the first instance, and would flavour a large batch of bread; therefore, it should be washed in a considerable quantity of water, and be set by for some hours till the thick mass subsides; this, if it still continue bitter, should undergo the same process again ; the firm sediment will then be good stiff barm, from which all floating water should be poured. "Whether this substance or the yeast from the brewery be employed it should always be mixed with 3 or 4 table-spoonsful of fresh bran and 1 pint of warm water, and then be strained through a hair sieve. Bran abstracts much of the bitter principle, and also adds life to the yeast. If the brewers' yeast be flat and lifeless it may be much improved by adding a pint of warm sweet- wort to it instead of the milkwarm water. To prepare this wort take 3 or 4 table-spoonsful of ground malt, simmer it for a quarter of an hour in 1| pint of water, with 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar or honey, and 1 tea-spoonful of salt. Let these ingredients digest, on a cool part of the grate or elsewhere, till they become milk- warm, then strain off the liquor, and add it to the yeast, stir the whole well together, and the mixture will be fit for use. Process of setting the sponge. Put the 24 lbs. of flour into an oblong wooden baking-trough or a glazed earthen pan, large enough to contain twice the quantity of the flour employed. Make a deep, round hole in the centre of the flour, and pour into it the diluted yeast; stir into it with a large spoon so much of the surrounding meal as will make it up into a sort of batter of the consistence of thin paste. This process is called setting the sponge. Cover the mixture with dry flour to the depth of at least the eighth of an inch, and then throw over the trough or pan a linen or woollen cloth. Many pei-sons omit this useful preparatory process, but the bakers always adopt it. The object is to give strength and character to the ferment by com- municating the quality of leaven to a small por- tion of the flour, a quality which then is soon extended to the whole mass. Chemists term the action so excited the panary fermentation, in contradistinction to that which yeast gives to the wort of malt, &c. Setting sponge is also a measure of wise precaution, for many a batch of flour, which would have been totally ruined for bread had the barm been foul or inert, and mixed up at first with the entire bulk of flour, has been saved by this test of the goodness of the yeast. To make bread that will never be bitter. Sup- pose you want to bake a bushel of flour, put it into your kneading-trough, then take about \ pint of warm water and 1 tea-spoonful of yeast. Stir it in till it is thoroughly mixed with the water; then make a hole in the middle of the flour large enough to contain 2 gallons of water. Pour in your small quantity; then take a stick, and stir in some of the flour until it is as thick as you would make for a batter pudding; then strew some of the dry flour over it, and go about your usual bushiessfor an hour. Then take a quart more of wana water, and