CHA CHA [ 260 ] it results tliat the best wines are made with the red and white grapes mixed in different propor- tions. However, there are cantons where few black grapes are found, and yet the wines are much esteemed. In making the white wine without tinge from black grapes much precaution is used. Not only the ripest and soundest bunches are chosen, but also all the dry berries are picked off, and the unripe and rotten. They are placed in large baskets, which are carried on horseback to the press, and carefully covered with a cloth, in order to weaken the action of the sun, and avoid fermentation. The operation of pressing is made with all possible celerity; and this only two or three times, as long as the liquor pi-eserves its sweetness and clearness, or until it acquires more firmness and strength, or until it takes a tinge. The produce of these first pressings gives the choicest wine ; those subse- quent furnish the wines known in the country by the name of vins de taille, which are slightly coloured, of a good flavour, and more spirituous than the first. They generally, in a tenth or twelfth proportion, enter into the sparkling wines drawn from the vineyards of the fourth class. The wines obtained from the last press- ings without being precisely red are sufficiently coloured so as not to be considered as white; they are used advantageously to give strength and quality to the common red wines. The grapes intended for making the vin rose are gathered with the same precaution as for the white, and are treated in the same manner at the press; but previous to the carrying them thither they are stripped fi-om the branch, and slightly pressed in the vessels appropriated to their use, and remain there a sufficient time for the commencement of a fermentation, which, by dissolving the colouring particles, gives to the rest the rosy tint which is desired. Sometimes for this purpose a liquor is used, known by the name of vin de Fismes. It is drawn from elderberries boiled with cream of tartar. A few drops of this liquor suffice to tinge with a rose colour a bottle of white wine, without alter- ing its flavour or wholesomeness. The colour is most beautiful, and keeps a longer time than that obtained from wine suffered to ferment. , The high price of the sparkling wines comes, not only from the quality of the wines chosen to make them, and- the infinite pains required before they are finished, but also from the con- siderable losses to which the proprietors and dealers are exposed in this kind of speculation, and the strange phenomena which determine or destroy the sparkling quality. As to losses the owners count in general fifteen to twenty in a hundred, sometimes even thirty or forty. To this must be added the diminution which takes place as the wine is separated from its deposits by decanting, an operation which is performed at least twice. The phenomena which cause or destroy the sparkling are so surprising that they cannot be explained. The same wine drawn the same day into bottles from the same glasshouse, put down in the same cellar, and placed in the same heap, sparkle to such a height in such a division, whilst it sparkles much less, or not at all, in another position near such a door, or under such an air hole. Wines also which have sparkled perfectly lose this upon the change of season. All these accidents together cause the dearness of the sparkling wines; they are so varied and extraordinary that the most experienced dealers cannot always foresee or prevent them. The quality of the bottles, ou, perhaps, the degree of fire which they undergo, contributes to diminish or preserve the sparkling. We are as- sured that this phenomenon extends even to the drinking glasses, and that in some all the fermentation is instantly lost, whilst it is pre- served in others filled at the same time. The ■wine intended for sparkling should be bottled in the March following the vintage. The fermentation generally begins in the month of May, and continues all the summer; it is par- ticularly strong in June during the flowering of the vine, and in August when the fruit begins to ripen. At these times the greatest loss in the bursting of bottles takes place, and it is not safe to pass through a cellar without being guarded with a mask of iron wire. The work- men who neglect this precaution are severely wounded by the splinters of bottles. The fer- mentation diminishes in autumn, and seldom any heavy losses happen in the second year Amongst the wines prepared for sparkling there are some -which take only a slight fer- mentation ; these are called creynans, drive out the cork with less force, and sparkle less in the glass. Their effervescence forms a scum of froth, which covers the liquor and disperses in a few moments. They have the advantage over the bright sparkling in preserving more vinous qualities, and being less sharp. Their price is higher, as being sought for by many connoisseurs ; and, owing their quality only to one of the strange phenomena in the wines of Champagne, they cannot be obtained in great quantity. The best red wines are produced upon the north side of the declivities of the Marne, which ai-e called the montagnes de Eheims. The vines, although exposed to the north and east, furnish well-flavoured wines. They are divided, accord- ing to their quality, into the wines of La Mon- tague, of Basse-Montagne, and of terre de St. Thieri-y. These wines are in general fit to be