[ 299 ] CHO CHO inoveabTe pole passed through the lid of the chocolate pot, and furnished with a headpiece, in order to mix the chocolate equally by turning the mill rapidly between the hands and without intermission, thus to prevent its becoming clotty, Care, however, should be taken not to let it boil, for in that case the vegetable oil which is con- tained in the nut will be extracted from it, and appear on the surface. The flavour is better retained by making it in water than milk. Do not grate it, but cut the quantity for each cup into two or three pieces. To 1 oz. of choco- late put li oz. of boiling water ; boil it over a brisk fire, and reduce it to a thii'd; put this third into good cream, but do not boil it again. It is useless to stir it more than two or three times during the boiling. Chocolates which contain any farina and much sugar are heavy and unwholesome. CHOCOLATE : To Make (1). According as you wish to make this beverage either with milk or water, put a cup of one or the other of these liquids into a chocolate pot, with 1 oz. of cake chocolate. Some persons dissolve the chocolate in a little water before they put it into the milk. As soon as the cream or water begins to boil mill it. When the chocolate is dissolved and begins to bubble take it off the fire, letting it stand near it for a quarter of an hour; then mill it again to make it frothy; afterwards serve it out in cups. CHOCOLATE: To Make (2). Simmer the chocolate on a slow fire in the proportion of 2 ozs. to each cup; stir it about a good deal with the chocolate mill, and when it is properly dis- solved and thickened add the yolk of 1 egg beat up to the proportion of four cups, or the whites equally beat up and the firs'-, froth thrown away; mix it first with a little of tht, chocolate, which add to the rest, and mill it very well to incorpo- rate together; this will make it of a proper con- sistence and of a proper froth. It is best made a day or two before using. If you keep it ready made any time boil it a moment every other day; sweeten it according to taste. CHOCOLATE ALMONDS. Take lib.of chocolate finely g-rated, and Hlb. of the best sugar finely sifted; soak some gum dragon in orange-flower water, and work them into what form you please; the paste must be stiff; dry them in a stove. You may write devices on paper, roll them up, and put them in the middle. CHOCOLATE BISCUITS. Take Jib. of chocolate, and put it on a tin over a stove to make it warm ; then put 1 lb. of powder sugar in a basin, and when the chocolate is quite warm and soft put it in with the sugar, and mix it well with the whites of about 8 eggs. If you find it too thin add some more powder sugar to bring it to a paste, so that you can roll it into lumps the si^e of walnuts; let yonr oven be of a moderate heat; put three papers under them, let the oven just raise and make them crisp and firm, and let them be quite cold before you take them from the paper. CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGER. The day before you want the blanc-manger take 4 calves' feet, singed but not skinned, and 8 or 10 pigs' feet ; boil them slowly, with, frequent skimming, in 4 quarts of water till the meat drops from the bones ; then strain the liquid through a sieve into a broad tin pan, cover it, and set it away in a cold dry place. Next day it should be a solid cake of clear jelly. Then scrape off all the fat and sediment, cut the jelly into small bits, put it into a porcelain pre- serving pan, and melt it over the fire. Have ready 6 ozs. or more of cacao or chocolate that has been scraped finely, and melted over the fire in a pint of boiling cream, with 6 ozs. of powdered loaf sugar. When the chocolate, cream, and sugar have boiled together five minutes, after coming to a boil mix them with the melted jelly, and let the whole come to a boil again; then boil them together five minutes more, stirring it occasionally. Next put it into moulds that have been set all night in col(? water. Do not wipe the moulds, but leave them damp. Stir their conteiits well, and when the blanc-manger is thickening so that it is hai'd to stir set the moulds on ice, or place them in the cellar in pans of cold water. When the blanc-manger is quite congealed and is very firm turn it out of the moulds, first setting them in lukewarm water, and serve it up on china dishes. CHOCOLATE BONBONS. Put Jib. of chocolate over a fire to dissolve it, and, having boiled 2 lbs. of sugar to forte perle, put a spoon- ful or two into the chocolate, stir it till it forms a thin paste, then pour it on the sugar, and boil both together to caramel. In the meantime melt a little butter, skim, and pour it off clear into a basin; lake a spoonful of it, and rub it with your hand over a marble slab or table; on this pour the chocolate and sugar; then take two ends of a sword-blade, one in each hand, and press lines an inch apart all down it; cross then in like manner, so as to mark the sugar in small squares all over, doing it as quickly as posbible, lest the sugar should cool before you have done; then pass the sword-blade between the marble and the sugar, and lay under the latter sheets ol paper ; when cold break it into pieces according to the marks, and wrap each square in paper. CHOCOLATE BOUCHfiES (Ladies'). Make your ladies' bouchees as directed (see that article}, but lay them rather more of an oval form. When baked take them from the papers.