[ 183 3 BUT BUT care; where no valet is kept lie has to keep his master's clothes in good order, carry them to his dressing-room, and arrange his wardrobe. After breakfast he removes the tea-tray; but the footman takes away the um and clears the table. He then cleans the plate and locks it up, after which he breakfasts with the housekeeper, unless all the servants breakfast together before the family. He then attends to his master's dress- ing-room, and gives out such clothes to the foot- man as require brushing, and gives such directions respecting his master's linen as may be necessary. He then dresses to be ready to attend upon company, to receive cards from the footman, and announce visitors. For luncheon, after the under-butler, or footman, has laid the cloth, the butler arranges the table, and provides such wine and beer as may be needed ; if there be company he remains in the room. For dinner the under-butler, or footman, lays the cloth and carries up the plate delivered to him by the butler, who then arranges the table. He also carries up the first dish, and places all the dishes npon the table, as the other servants bring them from the kitchen. He does the same for every course, and does not leave the room until he has placed the wine and dessert upon the table. He then takes tea mth the housekeeper, whilst the under-butler, or footman, prepares for the parlour tea; but if the bell rings during the dessert the butler answers the call, and also during the whole evening. He carries up the tea-tray assisted by the footman; he hands the tea-cups and the footman the bread and butter, &c. Sup- pers are now rarely taken, but when they are, and also at balls and routs, the butler manages them the same as at dinner. When there is no valet he sees that the gentlemen's slippers and the bed candles are properly provided. Finally, he examines and locks up the plate; brings from his master's dressing-room such things as will have to be brushed ready for the morning; sees that the windows and doors are fastened; that the menservants are in bed, and then retires to his ovra room. A butler's wages vary from £30 to £80, out of which he finds his own clothes and washing. His perquisites are his master's cast-off clothes, ends of wax candles, and soiled playing cards. BUTTER. Butter is the product of milk, which forms important articles of food in every country. The same quantity of milk that sells for 6^. yields about 4d. if made into butter, and only Sd. when made into cheese. The milk of the cow yields moi-e than twice as much cream as ewe's milk; but this is best adapted for making cheese. Cheese-making is best carried on in summer; butter in winter. The average produce of a grass-fed cow is about 5 gallons per day, from tlie cream of which about 22 ozs. of butter may be made. Cows yield more milk when milked three times a day than when milked twice ; and the milk of some cows yields more cream than that of others. The cream yielded by the last half of the milking, if the udder is properly emptied, is not less than eight, and sometimes sixteen times as much as that yielded by the first half of the milking. Water added to milk causes it to throw up a larger quantity of cream than if unmixed, but the cream is of inferior quality. Milk cari'ied to a distance before it is set for cream, or any other way shaken, yields less cream, and is also thinner. Cream which has not acquired some degree of sourness before it is churned requires in summer long churning, and is generally tough and gluy; and, in winter, butter will scarcely form unless heat is applied. Cows in summer should be milked three times a day at least; early in the morning, at noon, and just before nightfall. If this be not done the greatest possible quantity of milk will be far from being obtained from them. The milk is secreted in the udder very much in proportion to the quantities required, as we see in the case of dogs, cats, pigs, and other animals, which produce more young than one at a time; and we know that a cow by scanty milking can very soon be put dry. It is, therefore, of the utmost consequence that the whole of the milk secreted be at each meeting carefully drawn away. The cows should be as little driven as possible before milking; and their teats should be washed clean with water by means of a sponge before the process commences. It may be laid down as a general rule that 18 lbs. of milk will yield 1 lb. of butter; and that this is the produce of a single cow per day during summer, and half that quantity in winter. Some, however, will furnish twice or even thrice this quantity. The effects of feeding, treatment, management, and the idiosyncracy of particular animals are here astonishingly great. When brought into the dairy the milk should be strained through a fine sieve, and then poured into pans or troughs about four inches deep. From twelve to twenty hours in summer, and about twice as long in winter, should be permitted to elapse before the milk is skimmed after it has been put into the milk-pans. If on applying the tip of the finger to the surface nothing adheres to it, the cream may be properly taken off; and during the hot summer months, this should always be done in the morning before the dairy gets hot. The cream should then be deposited in a deep pan, placed in the coolest part of the dairy, or in a cool cellar where free air is admitted. It is customary to stir the cream frequently with the view of encouraging a slight degree of acidity, which is deemed