[ 483 ] EYE EYE In inveterate cases bleeding from the arm or temporal artery, and leeches to the temples duly repeated, with purgatives, emetics, and fomentations, may be employed; and should tbe symptoms not yield to these measures it ■will be proper to apply a blister to the nape of the neck, or behind the ear of the affected side, which ought to be kept open for some days by being dressed with stimulating applications, such as the savin ointment, or cerate of Spanish flies. In cases that appear to be constitutional, or kept up by some acrimonious humour in the habit, an issue between the shoulders or a seton in the neck will be advisable. When, in the first instance, the inflammation has been caused by some extraneous body getting into the eye—for instance, particles of sand, dust, lime, small flies, the hairs of the eyelids, &c.— they should be immediately removed, the part guarded from the light by means of a deep shade of green silk, and an obscure light ad- mitted into the patient's chamber. It may not be out of place here to repeat that bleeding and purging, where the inflammation and irritation run high, should go before every other means, repeating the former, should it be necessary, every fourth day, and the latter at proportionate distances of time, either by means of calomel and jalap (five grains of the former to fifteen of the latter), or by a solution of Epsom salts in the usual dose, or combined with an infusion of senna. If the complaint has arisen from cold, or other causes suppressing perspiration, the pa- tient will receive benefit by taking something to restore this evacuation. Putting the feet in warm water may also be resorted to for the same purpose. If the inflammation be dependent on a venereal taint mercury must be relied on for its removal. Where the eyelids in inflammation are apt to be glued together, particularly during sleep, by a glutinous secretion, this inconvenience may be obviated by anointing the edges with auj^ of the following ointments on going to bed at night, or every night and morning:—Take prepared tutty, 1 drachm ; spermaceti ointment, 1 oz. Or, prepared lard, i.e., such as is sold in the shops, 1 oz.; sulphate of zinc finely pow- dered, ^ drachm. Or, cerate of lead. These observations may sufiice for the less severe cases of ophthalmia, or inflammation of the eye ; but, where the symptoms do not soon and readily yield, proper advice should be in- stantly applied for. EYEBROWS. As it is natural for the eye- brows to be a shade darker than the hair, a slight additional artificial tinge will not be readily detected, while it will give a tone of character to the forehead that must be deficient where the eyebrows are light. Very light eyebrows, indeed, impart to the countenance a sort of babyish vacancy, which must always detract from the influence of the most beautiful features or the finest eyes. In light eyebrows, also, the hair is usually less in quantity than in the dark, which is another reason for adding to their colour by artificial means. For this purpose we recommend the Wash for darkening the eyebrows. Dissolve in 1 oz. of distilled water 1 drachm of sulphate of iron ; add 1 oz. of gum water and a tea- spoonful of eau de Cologne. Mix, and, after having wetted the eyebrows with the aromatic tincture of galls, apply the wash with a camel- hair pencil. Paste for darkening the eyebrows. Take of walnuts, frankincense, resin, mastich, of each 1 oz.; burn them all on clear red-hot charcoal, and receive the fumes into a funnel, to which a very fine black powder, slightly perfumed and unctuous, will adhere. Mix this with a little oil of myrtle in a leaden mortar, and apply it to the eyebrows. This paste has the property of resisting both lieat and perspiration, but it must occasionally be renewed. The following method may also be used:— Clove black for the eyebrows. Burn a clove in the flame of a wax caudle, dip it in the juice or the rob of eldei'berries, and apply it to the eyebrows. The powder, also, which is used in the east for painting the eyelashes, and which is com- posed of antimony and bismuth, or a paste prepared from powdered blacklead, with eau de Cologne, oil of myrtle, or essence of bergamot, may be safely and advantageously used. Though, however, it is indispensable to beauty to have the eyebrows of a dark colour, and also a protection to the sight, as they are the natural shade of the eye, yet when they become large and shaggy they give a look of vulgarity, and are also a mark of old age. If the hair grows too long and thick keep it down with the scissors. If this be not suSicient some of the longest hairs may be removed by the tweezers. The same means may be tried, and are much better and safer than any depilatory, to diminish the extent of the eyebrows, and prevent them from spreading. We have a very different taste in this respect from the ancient Romans, who considered it in- dispensable in a beauty to have her eyebrows meet—what is in Scotland called lucken-browed, from a notion that the person whose eyebrows are so formed is, or should be, lucky. EYELID, INFLAMMATION OF. Sea Erysipelas.