CAL CAL [ 215 ] salt, and pepper. Cover the whole with a common paste, and bake it in a quick oven. When done, lay the head in a soup dish; take the fat from the gravy, and strain it into a stewpan. Add to it a bit of butter rolled in flour, and when it has boiled a few minutes, the yolks of 4 eggs and i pint of cream; pour this over the head. Garnish with boiled forcemeat balls, truffles, morels, and mushrooms. CALF'S HEAD PIE. Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with 2 onions, a little isinglass, or a calf's foot, a bunch of herbs, mace, salt, and pepper, in 3 pints of water. Keep this when very good to put in the pie. Half boil a head, cut it into square bits; put a layer of ham at the bottom of the dish, then some head, first fat and then lean, with forcemeat balls and hard eggs, then ham, and so on till the dish is full. The pieces must not be too close. Season to your taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Pour in some of the above-mentioned broth, and cover it with crust. Bake in a slow oven, and when done pour into it as much broth as it will possibly hold, and do not cut it till quite cold. CALF'S HEAD RAGOCT. Wash a calf's head, which, to make this dish in the best style, should have the skin on, and boil it. Boil one half of it all but enough, so that it may be soon quite done when put into the hash to warm.' Boil the other half quite tender, take out the bones, aod score it superficially. Beat up an egg, put it over the head with a paste-brush, and strew over it a little grated bread and lemon-peel, and thyme and parsley chopped very tine, or in powder, then bread-crumbs, and put it in the Dutch oven to brown. Cut the other half head into handsome slices, and put them into a stewpan with 1 quart of gravy or turtle sauce, forcemeat balls, egg balls, 1 wine-glassful of white wine, some catsup, &c. Put in the meat, let it warm together, and skim off the fat. Peel the tongue, and send it up with the brains round it as a side-dish; or beat them up in a basin with 1 spoonful of flour, 2 eggs, some grated lemon-peel, thyme, parsley, and a few leaves of very finely-minced sage. Bub them well together in a mortar, with pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg; fry them a very light brown. Dish up the hash with the half head you browned in the middle, and garnish with crisp or curled rashers of bacon, fried bread sippets, and the I31*9/1 H C9.1i63 CALF'S HEAD, PIQUANTE FOR. Pound 1 table-spoonful of capers, and 1 of minced parsley, as finely as possible; then add the yolks of 3 hard eggs, and rub them well together with 1 table-spoonful of mustard. Bone 6 anchovies and pound them, rub them through a hair sieve, and mix with 2 table-spoonsful of oil, 1 of vinegar, 1 of eschallot ditto, and a few grains of Cayenne pepper. Rub all these well together in a mortar till thoroughly incorporated; then stir them into ^ pint of good gravy or melted butter, and put the whole through a sieve. CALF'S HEAD, SAUCE FOR. Garlic vinegar, I table-spoonful; mustard, brown sugar, and black pepper, 1 tea-spoonful of each, stirred into i pint of oiled melted butter, CALF'S HEART (Roasted). Fill the heart vrith the following forcemeat:—J lb. of beef suet chopped small, grated bread, parsley, marjoram, lemon-peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Lay a veal caul or a sheet of paper on the stuffing to keep it in itSrplace. Put the heart into a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and turn it frequently till thoroughly roasted all round. Garnish with slices of lemon, and pour melted butter over it. CALF'S KIDNEYS. Chop the kidney and some of the fat, season it with pepper and salt, and make it, with egg and bread-crumbs, into balls, which fry in lard or butter. Drain upon a sieve, and serve with fried parsley; or the lean of cold veal may be substituted for the kidney. CALF'S LIVER (Broiled). Slice it, sea- son with pepper and salt, and broil nicely. Rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve it hot or cold. CALF'S LIVER (en Ceepine). Cut two large onions into dice, and toss them over the fire with a bit of butter; mince a calf's liver and f lb. of beef suet; then put them into a mortar with the onions, some dried bread-crumbs, i pint of milk, salt, pepper, mushrooms, 4 yolks of eggs and 4 whites whipped. Pound these well together. Place slices of bacon on the bottom of a stewpan, and over them a pig's caul pre- viously soaked in cold water, squeezed quite dry with the hand. Put all the pounded materials in this; wet the edges with the white of an egg to make them unite; place a sheet of paper over it, and cover the pan close. Stew it gently in hot cinders half an hour, then drain the fat from it, wipe the caul carefully with a linen cloth, and then place it in your dish. Serve with clear sauce, adding to it a little verjuice. CALF'S LIVER (Etouffade). Lard across as for roasting; put it into a braise in which there is garlic and basil, besides the other sweet herbs, stock, and wine. Let it boil, skim, cover with bacon and paper; put on the cover, and set it upon a hot hearth for two hours. Strain, and reduce some of the sauce; thicken with flour and butter. Lemon-juice, anchovies, or catsup may be used. CALF'S LIVER (Gbilled). Cut the liver into thin slices, which put on the gridiron, sprinkling them with salt and pepper, and turn- ing them occasionally. Take them off before