CHE [ 273 j CHE turn it over into a deep dish for table, sugar it, and serve. CHEESE, PARMESAN. Parmesan cheese is made of two meals of skimmed—the evening's meal having stood about eighteen hours, and the morning's about six hours. The mixed milk is heated in a copper boiled to 82° Fahr. ; a lump of rennet, the size of a walnut, for 66 gallons, is tied up in a cloth, and worked through it into the warm milk, which is then turned from the lire, and left for an hour to coagulate; after which the curd is stirred up for atiother hour, broken much smaller by a stick stuck all with wires, and left to settle. Part of the whey is taken out, the boilei' turned again over the fire, i oz. of saffron is added to colour it, the milk made nearly to boil, keeping it well stirred, and occasionally examining some of the curd between the finger and thumb. When the curd feels sufficiently firm the boiler is removed from the fire, three-fourths of the whey ladled out, and 3 or 4 gallons of water dashed against the boiler to cool it. A cloth is slid under the curd, and it is placed in a tub to drain ; it is then put into a hoop, and pressed with a half hundred weight for an hour. The cloth is then taken away, and the cheese placed again in the hoop for two days; after which the two cheeses are placed on one another, changing them every other day for a month in summer, and six weeks in winter, during which period they are sprinkled over with salt at each lime of turning them. The cheeses are then scraped clean, turned every day, and rubbed iioquently with linseed oil to keep off insects. They are never sold until six months old. After the curd of Parmesan cheese is removed irom the boiler all the whey is added to the buttermilk of the morning's meal, which has been churned in the meanwhile, an acid added to coagulate it, and thus a cheese called mas- chopino is made. The fatness of cheese can- not be ascertained by its appearance, but by toasting it, as some cheeses, apparently fat, dry up by heat; while other dry and hard cheese, when toasted, becomes fat. A cow ought to produce her own weight and value in cheese by the year: 4-50 gallons of cows' milk ought to produce 430 lbs. of cheese. CHEESE, PARMESAN FONDUE. Put 1 lb. of butter and ^ lb. of potato flour; stir them well together, add to them 5 or 6 glasses of good cream nearly boiling, 1 lb. of Parmesan grated; ^ lb. of Gruyere cheese grated, a small spoonful of mignonette, and a spoonful of powder sugar. Set it over a moderate fire, stir- ring it constantly ; add the yolks of 15 eggs and a large plateful of whipped cream well drained, then the whites whipped firmly. Pour this preparation into small paper cases as quickly as possible, aud bake them fifteen or twejity minutes. CHEESE, PARMESAN (Ice Cream) Take 6 eggs, ^ pint of syrup, and 1 pint of cream ; put them into a stewpan and boil them until they begin to thicken ; then rasp 3 ozs. of Parmesan cheese. Mix the whole well together, and pass it through a sieve; then freeze it according to custom. CHEESE PASTE. Make a paste with a cream cheese and flour, a little butter, 3 or 4 eggs, both yolks and whites, and some good cream. You must judge of the quantity of flour according to the quality of the cheese and the consistence you would have the paste. CHEESE PATTTES. Beat up some yolks of eggs, mustard, cheese, wine, or cream and butter; fill some baked patties, and put them in the oven. Serve them very hot after the company is seated. Ramakin paste may be served in patties. CHEESE. PLOMBIERE. Take ilb. of sweet and 4 bitter almonds ; beat them to a fine paste, which put into 1 pint of boiling cream, having previously infused in it 2 pinches of crisped orange flowers. Pour this cream on 9 yolks of eggs and J lb of powder sugar. Place it over a gentle fire, stirring it constantly until it begins to thicken, and taking great care not to let it boil. Pass it through a bolter, and when cold put it in a sabotiere and ice it. When about half set add a small Chantilly cheese, then finish icing, and when wanted for table lay about a dozen orange or ivy leaves on a dish. Lay the cheese on them like a rock, drop apricot mar- malade over it here and there, and serve it. CHEESE OF POTATOES. Cheese of fine quality is manufactured from potatoes in Saxony. After having collected a quantity of potatoes of good quality, giving the preference to the large white kind, they are boiled in a cauldron, and after becoming cool they are peeled and reduced to a pulp, either by means of a grater or a mortar. To 5 lbs. of this pulp, which ought to be as equal as possible, are added 1 lb. of sour milk and the necessary quantity of salt. The whole is kneaded to- gether, and the mixture covered up, and allowed to lie for three or four days, according to the season. At the end of this time it is kneaded anew, and the cheeses are placed in little baskets, where the superfluous moisture is allowed to escape. They are then allowed to dry in the shade, and placed in layers in large pots or vessels, where they must remain fifteen days. The older these cheeses are the more their quality improves. Three kinds of them are made. The first, which is the most common, is made, according to the proportions above indicated; the second with 4 parts potatoes and