CHI [ 293 j CHI tn the meantime put the rest of the tarragon into a saucepan, with a bit of butter worked into flour, the yolks of 2 eggs, J a glass of meat gravy, 2 spoonsful of stock, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper. Thicken it over the fire, but do not boil it, lest the eggs turn. Serve this sauce over the chickens. CHICKENS AND TOMATO SAUCE. Mix together in a stewpan a little butter, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg, a sufficient quan- tity to put in two chickens ; tie it in, lay thin slices of lemon on the breast of the chickens, and lay them in a stewpan lined with thin rashers of bacon ; cover them with the same, and stew them with fire above and below for three quarters of an hour. When done drain them in a cloth ; untie them, and serve with tomato sauce. CHICKENS AND TONGUES. Boil half a dozen young chickens, a cauliflower, spinach, and six pigs' tongues peeled. Place the cauli- flower in the centre of a dish, the chickens round it, and beyond them the tongues, with the roots outward; lay the spinach in small heaps between each tongue. Garnish the whole with toasted bacon. The cauliflower should be boiled in milk and water, and kept quite whole. CHICKENS AND TRUFFLES. Wash and pare some tnxffles, and turn them over the fire with a bit of butter and i lb. of grated bacon. Fill a chicken with this mixture, and truss it so that none of the stuffing can escape. Tie a slice of bacon and some paper on the breast; roast it, and serve with truffle sauce. CHICKENS AND VEGETABLES. Cut some young and tender artickokes in quarters; take out the choke, and cut off the ends of the green leaves. Blanch, and boil them in stock with slices of lemon. When nearly done drain them, and do them up in a stewpan with some butter, parsley, scallions, shallots, stock, a little oil, salt, pepper, and fennel; reduce this sauce, and, having boiled or pale roasted two chickens, pour it over, and place the artichokes round them. Instead of artichokes the following vege- tables may be used : chards, sorrel, spinach, lettuce, cucumbers, French beans, morels, peas, or salsafy. CHILBLAINS. Small, shining, painful tumours affecting the fingers, toes, and nails. From a whitish appearance at first they in- cline to a bluish cast, attended by excessive itching. They sometimes terminate in ulcera- tion. Should they break on the palms of the hands they are called chaps; when in the heels, \ihes. The cause is exposure to cold, with sudden transition to heat. Children are those chiefly afflicted. The seat of the disorder, the shining appearance of the inflammation, together with the evident cause from whence it proceeds, will easily distinguish chilblains from any other disease. This is sometimes a transient affection ; oftenei it is of considerable duration, and, continuing during the winter, only departs when the tempe- rature becomes mild. Sudden and considerable change from cold to heat must be avoided by those liable to this complaint. The feet and hands ought to be defended with woollen coverings. The ulcerated parts may be dressed as common sores. Chilblains should be rubbed, as soon as perceived, with warm spirits of rosemary, to which a small quantity of the oil of turpentine has been added, after which pieces of soft lint, moistened with a mixture of camphorated spirits, or opodeldoc, 1| oz., and tincture of Spanish flies, 2 drachms, may be constantly applied. When the swellings break, and discharge a thin matter, or ulcerate, poultices and emollient ointments may be applied for a few days, but these should not be long used, from their apt- ness to produce proud flesh, which may be kept under by means of pressure, or occasionally touching it with the lunar caustic, or equal parts of the nitrated ointment of quicksilver and spermaceti ointment. See Ammonia (Murtate of) and Caustic. CHILDREN. The following excellent direc- tions are from the pen of the late Dr. Davis, physician to the Royal Dispensary for Children. Food and feeding. Maxim : " Ever keep in mind that it is generally right to be sparing in the quantity of food ; tor over-feeding, as well as feeding improperly, is highly injurious."—A child in health will I'equire only breast milk for four months ; but if weakly, and the mother's milk is small in quantity, it will stand in need of a small cup of beef tea daily. At the end of four months it should be fed twice a day, once with bread and milk, or biscuit powder and milk, and once with light broth and bread arrowroot, or rice. At eight or nine months it should be fed three times in twenty-four hours, and then more solid food should likewise be given daily, as a bread or rice pudding, or a boiled eas.. For an infant taken early from the breast the diet should principally consist of cow s milk warmed, and poured on bread first soaked in water, and of light broth with bread or rice. If the child has a purging the milk should be boiled. After the first year animal food in sub- stance may be given twice a week to children. To those four or five years old animal food may be allowed daily, and bread and milk night and morning. Particular care is, however, neces- sary not to give nutriment in large quantities to children who take but little exercise, or to those who are weakly, for in such an excess, or even a great variety of food, is apt to produce worms, convulsions, rickets, slow fever, scrofula, and purging. The acid change of food is a common cause of disease in children. If a /