BLE BLE L 325 J BLEEDING: To Stop. Bleeding from wounds is easily stopped or restrained by- pressure, but whilst this is being done send for a surgeon. The best mode of obtaining the pressure is for some one to place his finger on the bleeding vessel or vessels, and then to tie a piece of strong cord round the limb, and twist the string tightly by means of a piece of stick passed through it. BLEEDING AT THE NOSE. Bleeding at the nose comes on without any previous warn- ing, and is frequently a consequence of a full habit of body and of a sanguine temperament. Sometimes it is preceded by pain and heaviness in the head, ringing in the ears, flushing of the face, heat, and itching of the nostrils, throbbing of the temporal arteries, quick pulse, &c. Fe- males are much less subject to it than males. It may arise from various causes, among which are peculiar smallness of the vessels of the part, &c., heat, violent exertion, blows, and particular postures of the body which give the blood a stronger determination to the head, &c. As, however, this discharge from the nose proves salutary in some disorders, such as vertigo, headache arising from too great a quantity of blood in the vessels of the head; and is critical in others, such as inflammation of the brain, apoplexy, inflammatory fevers, &c., it should be duly weighed at the time the occurrence takes place whether it really be a disease demanding immediate interference, or an effort of nature to remove some other disorder, consequently not requiring any interruption as long as the patient is not weakened by it. Nor should it be suddenly stopped, even in persons of good health, when not carried to any considerable extent. When, on the other hand, it arises in elderly people, and returns too frequently, or continues till the patient becomes faint, it should be stopped as soon as possible. Should it re- quire to be stopped, the patient ought to be freely exposed to cool air, and placed in an erect posture, with his body somewhat inclined backward, and he should drink freely of cold liquids. Immersing the head in cold water is recommended ; snuffing diluted vinegar fre- quently up the nose, or an astringent wash miay be thrown repeatedly up that nostril whence the blood proceeds, composed as follows:—Take powdered alum, 4 drachms; rose water, 12 ozs.; distilled vinegar, 2 ozs. Mix them for use. Or, muriatic tincture of iron, 3 drachms; dis- tilled water, 6 ozs. Mix and use them in the same manner. If the bleeding should still continue after these measures, a dossil of lint, dipped in a solution of the sulphate of copper, or in Ruspinis styptic, may be introduced up the nostril; or in a portion of Eaton's sti/ptic, composed as follows: — Take calcined green vitriol, 1 drachm; proof spirit, tinged yellow with a little oak bark, 2 pints. One of the most powerful styptics is charcoal, and in slight cases of bleeding from the nose it may be used in the manner of snuff. It may also be used by means of tents or dossils of soft linen, small enough to be admitted up the nostril, first moistened with water, and then dipped in charcoal powder. To assist these, cold water may be sprinkled on the patient's face, and his genitals now and then im- mersed in the same fluid. There are many other means resorted to in order to arrest profuse and inveterate bleeding from the nose ; but, when it exceeds the bounds of moderation and becomes ungovernable, it is too serious an affair to be left in inexperienced hands. When, however, bleeding at the nose has ceased of its own ac- cord, or has been stopped by artificial means, such as plugs, tents, &c., the patient must not remove the clotted blood or the tents in the nostril, but should allow them to come away of themselves. He should also be caxeful to apply nothing of a stimulating nature, nor to blow his nose with any degree of violence. In fact, he should do this as seldom and as gently as possible. When it occurs in people of a full habit of body the frequent use of cooling medicines, with temperance in diet, is recommended ; and where it may be occasioned by too great a flow of blood to the head, occasional bleeding from the arm and leeches to the temple will be serviceable.— [Forsyth's Manual.) BLESSED THISTLE (Centam-ea lenedicta). This plant belongs to Syagenesia Polygamia frustranea of Linnaeus, and to the Composites of the Natural System. Dr. Duncan remarks upon it that this is an annual plant, indigenous in the Grecian islands, and cultivated in our gardens. The leaves have a very dui'able bitter taste, accompanied with an ungrateful flavour, from which they are in a great measure freed by diying. Water quickly extracts, even without heat, the more grateful bitter. A strong decoc- tion is very nauseous and offensive to the stomach. Eectified spirits acquire a very pleasant bitter taste, which remains uninjured in the extract. This plant is now little employed. The nau- seous decoction is sometimes used to provoke vomiting, and a strong infusion to promote tiie operation of other emetics; but good effects have been frequently experienced from a slight infusion of carduus, in loss of appetite, where the stomach was injured by irregularities. A stronger infusion, made in cold or warm water, if drunk freely, and the patient kept warm, occa- sions a plentiful perspiration, and promotes the secretions in general. An extract prepared by evaporating the expressed juice, with the addi- tion of a little alcohol to prevent it from be coming mouldy, has been sti'ongly recommended