BUT BUT [ 184 ] necessary to the production of butter; but it is well kuown tliat excellent butter can be pro- duced from perfectly fresh cream. In hot weather churning should be performed, if possible, every other day; but if this is not convenient the cream should be daily shifted into a clean pan, and the churning should never be less frequent than twice a week. This work should be performed in the coolest time of the day, and in the coolest part of the house where there is a free draught of air. Cold water should be applied to the churn, first by filling it with this some time before the cream is poured in, and then by immersing it in water to the depth of a foot or so during the operation, provided we use the pump-churn ; or by applying wet cloths to it, if we use the barrel-churn. Such means are generally to prevent the too rapid acidification of the cream, and formation of the butter. The winter season and cold weather, of course, require an opposite practice ; but we can hardly be too cautious in the application of heat; for the common practices of wrapping the churn in a warm cloth, plunging it into hot water, adding warm milk to the cream, or placing the churn near the fire, all tend to injure the butter. The best way, perhaps, is to heat the churn by filling it with boiling water before the cream is put in, and to place it in the warmest part of the house, but not close by a fire. The temperature should be as near 55° as practicable, and ought not to exceed 60°. The operation of churning ought to be moderate, equable, and uninterrupted; for if we stop or relax in our exertions the butter will go back, as it is called; and if the motion be too quick and violent the butter will be soft and of a white colour, besides imbibing a very disagreeable flavour. This, in some districts, is known by the phrase bursting the churn. Machinery of an ingenious and con- venient construction is in some districts now employed, and found to have the advantage not only of abridging labour, but of securing a more regular and uniform motion. When the operation is properly conducted the butter, after some time, suddenly forms, and is to be carefully collected and separated from the buttermilk. But in doing this it is not sufficient merely to pour off this milk or ■withdraw the butter from it; because a certain portion of the caseous and serous parts of the milk still remains- in the interstices of the butter, and must be detached from it by wash- ing if we would obtain it pure. In washing butter some think it sufficient to press the mass gently bet^7ixt the hands; others press it strongly and frequently, repeating the washings till the water comes off quite clear. The first method is preferable when the butter is made for imme- diate use fi'om new milk or cream, because the portions of such adhering to it, or muced with it, contribute to produce the sweet, agreeable flavour which distinguishes new cream. But when our object is to prepare butter for keeping we cannot repeat the washings too often, since the presence of a small quantity of milk will, in twelve hours after churning, cause it sensibly to lose its good qualities. But when the butter is soft, especially in hot weather, it should be allowed to lie during ten or twelve minutes in the cold water to acquire better consistency before being washed. The process of washing butter is usually nothing more than throwing it into an earthen vessel of clear, cool water, working it to and fro with the hands, and changing the water till it comes off clear. A much preferable method, however, and that which we believe is now always practised by those who best under- stand the business, is to use two broad pieces of wood instead of the hands. This is to be pre- ferred not only on account of its apparently greater cleanliness, but also because it is of decided advantage to the quality of the butter. To this the warmth of the hand gives always more or less of a greasy appearance ; and butter washed by means of the v,-ooden flappers, as they are called, will always fetch at market a higher price than if the hand had been employed. The influence of the heat of the hand is greater than might at first have been suspected. It has always been remai'ked that a person who has natm'ally a warm hand never makes good butter. After washing the butter should be cut and sliced in every possible direction with a serrated or rough-edged knife, in order to bring out from it the smallest hair, bit of rag, strainer, or any- thing that may have chanced to fall into it. It is then to be spread in a bowl, and such a quan- tity of salt added as maj' be judged proper. If the butter is to be used immediately, or kept only for a short time, a small proportion will be sufficient; and in this state it is usually deno- minated fresh butter; but if it be intended to be kept long, or transported to a distance, an ouuce or two of salt will be requked to the pound of butter. The salt used in curing butter should be of the purest kind, well dried, and broken down, but not completely pulverised; and it must be so thoroughly worked in as to be equally incorporated with the mass. When butter is to be sold on the spot, or in the neighbouring markets, it is divided into rolls of 1 lb. or \ lb., or into lumps of 24 ozs., called dishes in some parts of England; but when it is to be kept or can-ied to a distance quantities of 84 lbs., 56 lbs or 28 lbs., are put up together in casks, usually called tubs, firkins, or half-firkins. When the butter has been sufficiently im- pregnated with salt by being spread out in thin layers, sprinkled with it, and thoroughly wrought,