CAM [ 2 9 ] CAM employed these flowers, and, agreeable to the method of Hoffman, by giving several times during the intermission from | drachm to 1 drachm of the flowers in powder, have cured intermittent fevers. I have found, however, that the flowers were attended with this incon- venience, that, given in a large quantity, they readily run off by stool, defeating thereby the purpose of preventing the return of paroxysms ; and I have found, indeed, that, without joining with them an opiate or an astringent, I could not commonly employ them." These flowers have been found useful in hysterical affections, flatulent or spasmodic colics, and dysentery, but from their laxative quality. Dr. CuUen tells us, they proved hurtful in diarrhoeas. A simple, watery infusion of them is frequently taken, in a tepid state, for the purpose of exciting vomiting, or for promoting the operation of emetics. Ex- ternally, the flowers are used for fomentations, and they are an ingredient in enemas. One cupful of cold camomile tea (1 oz. of flowers to 1 quart of hot water) taken before breakfast, is an excellent strengthener of the digestion. In applying camomile flowers as a fomentation, pour only enough boiling water upon them to soak them thoroughly, then roll them up in flannel and apply them. They remain hot a long time. Dr. Schall states that camomile flowers, taken either as an electuary or as tea at night, are a certain preventive of the night- mare. CAMOMILE DROPS are formed of 1 pint of rectified spirit of wine, and 1 oz. of essential oil of camomile. Given ia doses of from 5 to 20 drops it acts as a stimulant to torpid stomachs. Camomile pills are formed of the flowers pov/- dered and made into a, mass with lenitive electuary. CAMP DISH. Take any joint of mutton, put it into a pot with a good many onions cut small, and as many vegetables as can be obtained to add to it, 2 table-spoonsful of vinegar, and 5 of port wine. Season it with black and red pepper. Add 1 spoonful of flour, and, if at hand, 4 dessert- spoonsful of Harvey's sauce, and essence of ancho- vies. Cover the meat with water, and let it stew an hour and a half. It should be stirred fre- quently to prevent it from burning, as there should be only sufficient water to cook it. CAMP PUDDING. Put into a saucepan i pint of water, J- lb. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of brown sugar, and add the peel of half a lemon or orange. Let it j ust come to a boil, then take it off, and stir in I lb. of sifted flour. Mix it per- fectly smooth, and when cold beat in 4 well- beaten eggs. Half fill 12 yellow tea-cups, and bake them in a quick oven. Serve them with a sauce of wine, sugar, and butter, in a sauce tureen. CAMP VINEGAR. Take a head of garlic cut in shces, ^ oz. of Cayenne, a large glass of soy, and 1 of catsup or walnut pickle, some spirit of cochineal, and 1 pint of distilled vinegar. Shake it often during five or six weeks, and strain or filter it for use. It ought to be kept in small, well-sealed bottles. CAMPHOR when produced naturally is from such trees as Cinnamomum camphora and Dryo- balanops camphora, but it is prepared artificially in large quantities from oil of turpentine by forcing through it muriatic acid gas. In do- mestic purposes it is used for keeping away moths and other insects from clothes and dried specimens of natural history objects. Mixed ■with copal it renders it more easily soluble in spirit of wine and essential oils. It gives out white light when mixed with the mealed gun- powder of fireworks. It is an ingredient in the best sealing-wax. As a medicine it is preferable in the form of mixture, since it is very liable in the solid state to excite nausea, and, from swim- ming on the contents of the stomach, to occasion pain at its upper orifice. If a larger dose be re- quired than that which water can dissolve, an addi- tional proportion may be suspended by means of sugar, almonds, yolk of egg, or mucilage, for which purpose three times its weight of gum arabic is required. If camphor be first dissolved by tri- turation in a very small portion of oil it readily mixes with mucilage of gum arabic, and may then be conveniently blended with liquids. It has also the propeity of uniting with gum resins, and of converting them into permanently soft and uniform masses. Hence they may some- times be conveniently applied for difi'using it in water. It may be formed into pill-masses by stiff mucilage, fetid gums, or by a confection. In moderate doses it exhilarates without raising the pulse, and gives a tendency to perspiration, and under certain conditions of the body, when opium fails, it promotes sleep. As its effects are transient its dose should be repeated at short intervals. Camphor is said to correct the bad effects of opium, mezereon, Spanish flies, and the drastic purgatives and dim'etics. Dose, 2 grains to 1 scruple. In excessive doses it occasions anxiety, vomiting, fainting, and delirium; these violent effects are best counteracted by opium. CAMPHOR JULEP. Take of camphor, 1 drachm ; rectified spirit of wine, 10 drops ; double-refined sugar, i oz.; boiling distilled water, 1 pint. Rub the camphor first with the spirit of wine, then with the sugar; lastly, add the water by degrees, and strain the liquor. In hysterical and other complaints, where camphor is proper, this julep may be taken in the dose of a spoonful or two as often as the stomach will bear it.