BAR [ 68 ] BAR pact, brittle, and seemiugly resinous. The internal part is woody, fibrous, and of a rust- red colour. The powder is of a deeper colour than even the internal part of the bark. 3. The yellow bark is the most employed, and most highly esteemed in this country. It is the bark of the Cinchona cordifolia of Mutis, a tree which grows in the mountains of Loxa, in the kingdom of Quito, and in those of Santa Fe, at about 7000 feet above the level of the sea. It is a spreading tree, covered with a smooth bark, externally of a brownish-grey colour. This bark is brought to this country in chests, containing from 90 lbs. to 100 lbs. each, and consists of pieces about 10 inches long, some of them quilled, but the greater number flat. The quilled pieces are less rolled, and thicker than the quilled pale bark; and the epidermis, which is of a greyish-brown colour, and covered with flat, stringy lichens, is more rough and chopped, easily separating, and often as thick as the bark itself, which is about one-eight of an inch. The inner bark has a yellow colour, passing into orange. The flat pieces are generally without epidermis, and considerably thicker than the quilled. Both are mixed in the same chest. Cold water extracts its bitter taste, with some share of its odour; when assisted by a moderate heat the infusion is stronger, but becomes turbid as it cools. The infusion cannot be kept, even for a short time, without undergoing decompo- sition and being spoiled. Wine also extracts the virtues of bark, and is prevented by this substance from becoming sour—a fact which probably depends upon the avidity with which some of the principles of bark combine with oxygen, and which may throw some light upon the cause of its antiseptic virtues. The colour- ing matter of wine is precipitated by bark, as it is by charcoal, in the course of a few days. By decoction the active matter of cinchona is in a great degree extracted, but if the process be protracted beyond eight or ten minutes it under- goes a very important chemical change, the precise nature of which is not well understood. The balance of affinities, however, by which the different elements are united is evidently over- thrown, and a considerable precipitation en- sues ; oxygen would also appear to have been absorbed. Whether the cinchona becomes insoluble has not yet been ascertained, but experience has shown that the general loss of solubility, pro- duced by such a process, is accompanied with a corresponding loss of medicinal activity; on which account the extract is necessarily a very inefficient preparation; if we attempt to re- dissolve it not more than one half is soluble in water. Vinegar is a less powerful solvent than water. The active matter of bark is rendered more soluble by the addition of mineral acids, and by the earth and alkalies; these latter bodies deepen its colour. Lime water has been recommended as a solvent, and it affoi'ds an excellent form for children and dyspeptic patients. For the same reason we obtain a stronger and perhaps a more efficient prepara- tion by pounding it with magnesia previous to the process of infusion. Alcohol (spirit of wine) is a very powerful solvent, but the great activity of this menstruum so limits its dose that we are prevented from exhibiting a sufficient quantity of the bark in the form of tincture. It furnishes, however, an excellent adjunct to other prepara- tions. In cases where it is necessary to join cordials an infusion of bark in port wine is a popular and very useful form for its administration. I)ose of the powder, 5 grains to 2 drachms or more ; of the infusion or decoction, 2 ozs. Medical uses. It is powerfully tonic and anti- septic. It was introduced into practice for curing intermittent fevers, but since that period it has been generally used in diseases of debility, in fevers of the typhoid type, and in gangrene. It was first conjectured to be useful in gout by Sydenham, and Dr. Haygarth has strongly re- commended its exhibition in acute rheumatism. When, however, it is used in these diseases, the greatest attention ought to be paid to the state of the bowels, and purgatives should be occa- sionally interposed. In dyspepsia the use of the purer bitters is to be greatly preferred to that of the bark. BARLEY, besides being employed for agri- cultural purposes, is used largely in every household, either as malt, barleymeal, pot barley, or pearl barley. Of Malt we shall speak under that title. Barleymeal is merely barley ground into flour, and has a peculiar mawkish flavour, owing to an essential oil in the bran or skin of the seed. Pot or Scotch barley is barley from which the outer skin has been removed. Pearl, or, as it was formerly called, French barley, is the small round kernel remaining after the skin and a considerable por- tion of the barley have been ground off in a mill constructed for the purpose. Pearl barley ground to flour is sold under the name of patent barley. In both states it is used extensively for the diet of sick persons ; but both pot and peaid barley are also much employed as a substitute for rice in broths, stews, and puddings. Barley broth is a constant dish at the table of many persons in Scotland. In Holland pot bai'ley, boiled in buttermilk and sweetened with treacle, is a common dish for children and servants. Dr. Duncan says that barley is one of our most valuable grains, and is used in many ways.