BRE [ 164 ] BRB alum-water, anci ^ oz. of essence of lemons, with 3| ozs. of fennel-water, which should be frequently used previous to going into company. Sweetener for the breath, and jn-eservative for the teeth and gums. Take equal parts of the tincture of myrrh, tincture of bark, and cin- namon-water, to which arquebusade-water may be added. The mouth and teeth may be rinsed and gargled with this preparation ; a tea-spoon- ful or two in- the morning will correct any of- fensive disposition of the breath, either of long standing, or that which is acquired from the habit of smoking, or drinking spirituous or fermented liquors. It is also an excellent tonic, and may be taken to the extent of a dessert- spoonful three or four times a dav. BREATH, SHORTNP^SS OF. Dissolve IQ grains of camphor in 1 oz. of sulphuric ether, and take 1 tea-spoonful during the paroxysm. This often gives immediate relief when a patient from difficulty in breathing is obliged to sit erect. BREWING. October and February are the best seasons of the year for brewing. The former supposes a duly abated heat, that is, a temperature of about 50° or 55° as the medium, and it secures the mellowing influence of the whole winter wherein the slow, progressive fer- mentation in the barrel is perfected without serious interruption. February is a moist month generally, and whenever rain approaches or falls, with the wind at south-west and rather lively (the frequent concomitant of the month), fermentation is always moot energetic. Hence, though the winter be passed, February is pro- pitious, and speedily affects those processes which perfect the beer. The cold, dry, north-easterly winds of March supervene, and protract the final mellowing of the beer; whereas, if the bi'ewing be deferred till March, the weather, in ordinary cases, is inimical to the first great fermentation, and the secondary fermentation in the barrel is carried on too rapidly by the atmospheric influences of April and the sudden accessions of lieat. The result is a hard and acescent fluid, very remote in its qualities from the mild, bland ftle of October. The people of Staffordshire and the adjoining north-west counties, where, per- haps, some of the best beers in the kingdom are brewed, obsei've that March brewings were al- ways beerish, by which term they meant to express the hard flavour which ale of a great age acquires after having lost its sweetness. We presume that our readers are possessed of a copper capable of boiling 14 gallons; of 3 cooling vessels at the least, each of which will contain 7 gallons when the liquor in them shall not exceed 5 inches in depth; of another tub or cask large enough to receive the cooled wort ^aie and beer); and casks of 6 gallons each. We do not mention a larger size, tccause. if the brewings be small, they imply a limited consumption, and nothing injures beer so much as long exposure to frequent admission of air; four or five 6-gallon casks ought to be had when 12 gallons of mild ale and 6 gallons of table- beer are intended to be brewed, and these quantities we will select as the basis of our directions. Malt, to be good, ought to be crisp, tender, and full of flour throughout; if with these pro- perties the grain be plump and sweet to the taste from point to point it is excellent. Hops are a staple product of Kent, Surrey, and Worcestershire. For porter brewing the intense bitter of Kent is, it appears, peculiarly suitable. Surrey and Farnham hops are of a bright, clear, greenish yellow, and full of fra- grance ; they are excellent; but the Worcester hops are the best for the domestic brev. er. Mild and full of exquisite flavour, they suit the deli- cate quality of table-ale ; and the specimens of that brewed in Worcestershire, Shropshire, and Staffordshire, prove the assertion to be correct. Hops ought to abound in condition; that is, in a yellow powder about the seeds which yields a sticky feeling or clamminess to the hands when the hops are rubbed smartly. The malt being chosen the brewer should decide upon the quality of the ale he intends to make, also of that of the table-beer. It should always be remembered that beer, however weak, is superior in quality if it contain all the pro- perties of malt, and be, therefore, brewed ex- pressly. It is, however, a point of economy to prepare a small quantity of beer from the grains after the ale-wort has run off; but the weak wort so obtained cannot be supposed to be as good as if the same quantity were made from a given measure of malt, none of the strength and fine flavour of which had been extracted by a previous mashing for ale. Another consideration of mo- ment is this, that if 1 bushel yield to a certain quantity of water a wort of any required strength, 5 or 6 bushels will yield to a corresponding quantity of water a wort of greater compai'ative strength, because the greater the bulk of the materials employed, the more certain and pro- fitable will be the results, in consequence of the equability and steadiness of the heat employed. These facts being admitted, we shall proceed to arrange the processes of brewing under the fol- lowing heads, assuming that the quantities be brought down to those mentioned above, viz., 12 gallons of ale and 6 gallons of table-beer. 1. The malt is to be ground either by a cutting or crushing-mill; that in the Stafford- shire process was bruised by falling between two steel rollers, so set that each grain was flattened and cracked so as somewhat to resemble the