CAE CAE [ 200 ] cake. Sift into a pan 1 lb. of flour; in another pan beat six eggs till very thiclc and smooth; stir them gradually into the butter and sugar alternately with the flour, and a pint of licli milk or cream, a little of each at a time. Have ready a level tea-spoonful, not heaped, of pearl- ash or saleratus (or a full tea-spoonful of bi- carbocate of soda), dissolved in as much warm water as will cover it. Add this at the last, and then give the whole a very hard stirring. Butter a large square pan, put in the mixture, set it immediately into the oven, and bake it thoroughly. It requires very long baking. A thick, square Boston cake will scarcely be done in less than three hours. At the end of the first hour increase the heat of the oven, and also at the second. When cool sift powdered sugar over it, and cut it into squares. If properly made, and well baked, following exactly the above directions, this cake will be found excel- lent, and will seem fresh longer than any other, the milk keeping it soft. Milk turned sour is very good for Boston cake, as by stirring the dissolved pearlash or soda in the milk the acidity will be entirely removed, and the alkali rendered more effective in increasing the lightness of the cake. Still great care will be necessary in baking it. The best confectioners make this cake every day without failure. CAEE, BOURNEVILLE. Work about ^Ib of flour, with 5 or 6 whole eggs, some finely- chopped lemon-peel, a few drops of orange-flower water, a spoonful of plain water, and a little salt; then let it rest about an hour. You will put about as much butter as paste, and work it afterwards well together. Bake it in a mould or hoop, and garnish as you think proper with sugar, nonpareils, or colours. CAEE, BREAD. Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough when making white bread, and knead well into it 2 ozs. of butter, 2 ozs. of Lisbon sugar, and 8 ozs. of currants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition of 1 oz. of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of raw cream im- proves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. CAEE, BREAEFAST. Rub Hlb. of butter into i peck of flour, 3 lbs. of currants, | lb. of sugar, ^ oz. of mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg together, a little salt,' 1 i pint of warmed cream or milk, J pint of brandy, 5 eggs, 1 pint of good ale-yeast. Mix them well together. Bake it in a moderate oven. This cake will keep good a quarter of a year. CAEE, BRIDE. See Bbidecake. CAEE, BUTTER. Beat a dish of butter with your hands to a cream; add 2 lbs. of sifted sugar, 3 lbs. of dried flour, and 24 eggs. Leave out half the whites, and then beat all together for an hour. When you are going to put it in the oven add J oz. of mace and nutmeg, a little sack and brandy, seeds and currants if you think proper. CAEE, CARAWAY. Mix i lb. of sifted loaf sugar with 1 lb. of flour and J lb. of butter; add some ground caraway seeds, according to taste ; make it into a stiff paste with 3 well- beaten eggs and a little rose water; roll it out thin, cut it into round cakes, prick them with a fork, and bake them upon floured tins in a quick oven. CAEE, CHANTILLY. Bake a rice cake in a mould ; wben cold cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Putin a tliick custard, and some tea-spoonsful of raspberry jam, and then yut on a high whip. CAEE, CHEESE (Curd). Boil in 2 quarts of cream the well-beaten yolks of 4 and the whites of 5 eggs ; drain ofl' the whey gently, and mix with the curd grated nutmeg, pounded cinnamon, 3 table-spoonsful of the best rose water, as much white wine, 4 ozs. of pounded loaf sugar, and the same quantity of butter (beaten to a cream) and of pounded biscuit. Mix all these ingredients well together, and stir in ^ lb. of currants. Bake it in a large tin, or in patty pans lined with paste ; or it may be baked in a dish previously buttered. CAEE, CHESHIRE. Beat for half an hour the yolks of 8 and the whites of 5 eggs. Add i lb. of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, I lb. of dried and sifted flour, and the grated peel of a small lemon. Beat all well together, and bake in a floured tin. CAEE, CHOCOLATE. Scrape down 3 ozs. of the best and purest chocolate, or prepared cocoa. Cut up, in a deep pan, -J lb. of fresh butter; add to it 1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar, and stir the butter and sugar together till very light and white. Have ready 14 ozs. of sifted sugar, a powdered nutmeg, and 1 tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, mixed together. Beat the whites of 10 eggs till they stand alone; then the yolks till they are very thick and smooth. Then mix the yolks and whites gradu- ally together, beating very hard when they are all mixed. Add the eggs by degrees to the beaten butter and sugar, in turn with the flour and scraped chocolate, a little at a time of each; also the spice. Stir the whole very hard. Put the mixture into a buttered tin pan with straight sides, and bake it at least four hours. If nothing is to be baked afterwards let it remain till the oven becomes cool. When cold ice it. CAEE, CINNAMON. Make a nice paste with the proportion of ^Ib. of fresh butter to