[ 315 ] CLO CLI severity of tlie climate by clothing of the warmest kind, and by means best calculated to promote that suitable degree of warmth of which he stands so much in need. In hot seasons and tropical countries, on the contrary, the too powerful in- fluence of heat, while it enervates, points out the necessity of slight clothing, refreshing breezes, and of avoiding an influence too strong to be supported. It is in the tempe- rate regions alone man attains the utmost possi- ble energy both of body and mind. It is there the arts and sciences are successfully cultivated, and that the greatest longevity is attained. In such climates little other regard to temperature is necessary than that which a few vicissitudes demand. In order to bear these we should slightly expose our bodies to them. We should, too, counteract the effect of cold by muscular action, rather than by artificisd heat or too much clothing. In winter the sustenance should be more substantial than in warmer weather. The circulation of the blood is thereby accelerated, and the natural heat of the body increased. As to adventitious means of guarding against the effects of cold, it may be observed that, though stoves communicate a uniform heat, and are much used in the more northern countries, they cannot be considered so well adapted to the pur- pose as fuel communicating both light and heat. Wood and coal are each of them valuable articles of fuel; but such coal as abounds with sulphur, or fuel such as charcoal, too abundantly pro- ductive of carbonic acid, should not be used for ordinary purposes. The state of the weather and season of the year will direct as to the degree of artificial heat required. Even in summer, should the room feel damp and cold, a moderate fire may be had recourse to. The tem- perature of the sitting-room or bedroom should not exceed the medium of that of our own climate. In sultry weather we should seek the cool of morning and evening, shaded retreats, and apartments not heated by the sun's too potent influence. Dress, with the view of answering its true intention, should be accommo- dated to the circumstances of climate, and to the season of the year. Hence our lighter clothing, if the weather require it, should be changed for one affording a suitable degree of warmth. Proportioned to the cold additional coverings to the bed are to be had recourse to. Such means of communicating heat should only be removed when the mildness of the weather permits. The temperature necessary to be pro- duced by adventitious means depends on habit. The more we accustom ourselves to indulgence in this respect the more liable we are to receive injury. Should a person have been exposed to severe cold he must with caution approach a fire, it being from heat, after the body has becu much previously cooled, that disease and incon- venience arise. CLOAK, MACKINTOSH. To cleac one of these rain-proof coverings dip it in cold soft water; then with a housemaid's scrubbing-brush and yellow soap proceed to scrub it all over, having spread it out flat on a table. When the dirt is removed dip it in repeated waters to get rid of the suds, but do not wring it. Hang it up in the air, or in an airy room far from the fire, to drain and dry. Paint or grease spots must be removed by scouring-drops or spirits of turpentine, but common soap will perfonn the rest, the dirtiest parts requiring the most scrub- bing. This process will not injure the velvet collar or lining; the only thing to be avoided is the use of hot water or the fire in drying, for either would cause the caoutchouc to melt and destroy the article. CLOAK-MAKING. For the following di- rections we are indebted to " The Dress-maker," a little work published by Messrs. Houlston and Stoneman, which we recommend to our female readers:—The breadths of a cloak are run together like those of a gown skirt. The lining is prepared separately. It is commonly made of silk, and wadded, or else lined with a particular sort of flannel, called cloak flannel. If the lining be of silk there are two ways of preparing it, one more expeditious than the other. One way is to tack the wadding or flannel to a coarse, cheap lining, and then to tack the entire silk lining to the inferior one. The cloak has thus two linings and a wadding. The other way is to tack the wadding itself to the silk lining with long zigzag stitches. This last method is not so neat as the other; but it requires less time and material, and puts less weight upon the shoulders of the wearer. " The wadded lining being ready, it is spread out on a large table, and the outside silk is laid over it, and tacked with stitches that are to come out again. Then it is to be finished round the edge with a cording, or with velvet or fur. A velvet trimming is either a strip of bias velvet, broader or narrower, put on plain, or it is a straight piece, cut at the inner edge into scallops or Vandykes, or some other fancifuj pattern. In the first case your way will be to turn in the raw edges of the cloak and its lining, and run them together; then run one edge of your bias strip of velvet upon the edge of the cloak, and fasten down the other edge either with a cording or by slip-stitching. " Slip-stitching" means running a hem without showing the stitches—without taking hold of the upper fold. Straw bonnets, you know, are lined by slip-stitching round the edge, but this stitch is easier with a thick material like velvet than with a slight bonnet lining.