[ 352 ] COP coo quarter of an hour before dinner or supper, that the ingredients may be incorporated. A good way is to mix all but the ale, and pour it on just as it is going to be served. COOPER'S (Sir Astley) RULES FOR HEALTH. The first rule Sir Astley observed with care in his own person was " temperance," without which it is impossible for the strongest constitution to escape disease. Now there is much meaning in this word temperance, for it refers not only to food and drink, but to exercise, clothing, and every sort of sensual indulgence. Sir Astley's second rule was " early rising,"on the principle that the night was given for the rest of the body, and the day for business and labour; but he who sits up till midnight and beyond it must sleep in the morning, even, as Harvey expresses it, after " the vigorous sun is up and going on his Maker's errand." Who- ever does so must have his nerves loosened and his strength enfeebled—there is no help for him. Sir Astley attended to this. The third rule practised by Sir Astley was "sponging his body with cold water immediately after getting out of bed." He informs us that he continued this practice since he was twenty- four years of age, and the effect was that he did not know what it was to get a cold, and though he went from a warm room or crowded assembly into the open air in the severest win- ter nights, and with merely silk stockings on his legs, his health never suffered by cough or catarrh. Sir Astley's fourth rule was, that whenever he felt indisposed, in consequence of the fatigues of his profession or otherwise, he took a dose of "a medicine which never failed to restore him." As our readers may be pleased to know this valuable medicine which the learned baronet prepared for his own use, we shall here give the receipt for Sir A. Cooper's restorative pills :— Take of cathartic extract 4 grains ; submuriate of mercury, 1 grain. Make into one pill, to be taken at bedtime, and if not effectual another pill may be taken on the following morning. This is a medicine of great value in all those slight indis- positions which, though troublesome enough and heavy on the spirits, do not quite oblige the pa- tient to leave his business and go to bed. We cannot too strongly recommend it, though we think it necessary to say that, like other good things. Sir Astley's pills may be abused, namely, by taking them too often. Nobody, for example, unless fairly invalided, could possibly require a pill a day. Recollect the rule of " temperance " even in your medicines. Thousands are every day sent to their graves by their intemperance in the use of drugs, taken either by their own advice or by that of the apothecary, whose aim it is to glut the stomachs and suck the purses of his patients by his poisonous draughts. COPAL, improperly called gum copal, is a resinous substance obtained from the concrete juice of the PJius copalUnum, or narrow-leaved sumach, a native plant of North America, known there by the name of beach sumach. This resin is imported in irregular masses, some of which are transparent, of a yellowish or brown colour; others are whitish and semi-trausparent. It possesses a more agreeable odour than frankin- cense, but is, unlike other gums and resins, neither soluble in water nor in spirit of wine. Copal itself is soluble in the essential oils, particularly in that of lavender, but not easily in those obtained by expression. It may, how- ever, be dissolved in linseed oil, by digestion, with a heat very little less than is sufficient to boil it. The method of dissolving copal in spirit of wine is as follows:—To ^ oz. of camphor add 1 pint of alcohol; put it in a spherical glass, with 4 ozs. of copal in small pieces ; set it in a sand heat so regulated that the bubbles may be counted as they rise from the bottom, and con- tinue the same heat till the solution is com- pleted. Camphor acts more powerfully upon copal than any other substance. If the latter be finely powdered, and a small quantity of diy camphor rubbed with it in a mortar, the whole becomes in a few minutes a tough coherent mass. The process here described will dissolve more copal than the menstruum will retain when cold. Hence the most economical method will be to let the vessel which contains the solution stand for a few days, and when it is perfectly settled to pour off the clear varnish, and leave the resi- duum for a future process. Copal will dissolve in spirit of turpentine by the addition of camphor with equal facility, though not in the same quantity, as in spirit of wine. The vehicle employed in dissolving this resin dries very quickly, and is, therefore, in some cases really attended with disadvantage ; but this objection may be removed by the following pro- cess :—Take 1 pint of nut or poppy oil, and put it into a large earthen vessel; let it boil slowly over a moderate fire ; add by degrees 2 ozs. of white lead, and stir it continually till the whole is dissolved. Prepare 1 pint of the copal oil varnish heated in a separate vessel; pour this gradually into the hot oil, and stir them together till all the spirit of turpentine is dissipated; let it stand till cold, when it will be fit for use. It is obvious that, as this is a compound of the copal varnish with the least exceptionable of the drying oils, it will partake of the properties of each. Although it imparts less brightness and durability to colours than the varnish,