BEA BEA [ 84 ] BEADS : To Clean. Mix equal weights of rotten-stone and soft-soap into a thin paste with spirit of turpentine. Rub it over the beads by means of a rag, and wipe it off again with a piece of Hnen. BEAD - WORK. Miss Lambert, in her " Handbook of Needlework," obseiwes that the Germans excel in all kinds of bead-work, some of which are extremely beautiful. They are principally applicable to small articles, such as folios, presse-papiers, card and cigar cases. Purses and bags are made of beads, but their weight renders them sometimes objectionable. The very few colours in which glass beads can be obtained limits this description of work to arabesque, gem, and scroll patterns, or for working flowers in neutral tints; other designs, such as flowers and figures, are sometimes exe- cuted, but from the want of the proper shades, they are extremely defective. The opaque turquoise beads—among the most beautiful of those manufactured—are generally used for the grounds; an opal bead is extremely pretty in- termixed with others. Besides glass beads, gilt and silver beads, both plain and cut, and steel beads, are fre- quently used for this kind of work; the latter, for the sake of variety, being sometimes manu- factured of a dark purple tint. The designs for bead-work are generally taken from Berlin patterns; the beads are attached to a canvass by a waxed sewing silk, but a fine twisted cotton thread is used for this purpose in Germany. Half cross-stitch, or across two threads each way of the canvass on the slant, is the usual method of working them. Beads of all kinds are commonly introduced by the Germans into their patterns, the princi- pal portions of which are worked with wool or silk, whether on cotton or silk canvass, and not unfrequently with a pleasing effect. The use of beads, however, in the higher departments of the art, when we wish to imitate painting, is totally inadmissible—at least if we have any regard for the laws of good taste. In historical subjects, even the admixture of gold and silver threads is not in good keeping; but to enrich parts of the drapeiy and other portions of the design with heavy masses of beads, or of raised work, as is frequently done in Germany, is so gross an infringement of all the properties of art that it cannot be .too scrupulously avoided. Some of the most beautiful bead-work is done in tricot, with a fine cotton or silk; but it is a more laborious and expensive method of pro- ducing the same effect, although for some few purposes it is infinitely superior. Purses made- with beads, in imitation of netting, are also very pretty, but perhaps more curious than useful. With respect to beads, it may not here be improper to observe, that a great difference exists in the quality of all sorts of steel and gilt beads, causing a variation sometimes of as much as three or four hundred per cent, in their value. To those who cannot at first perceive the difference, time will soon show the inferiority in the wear of the one in comparison with the other. Bead-work may be done on canvass of several sizes, according to the size of the beads; the canvass usually employed measures about tliirty- eight threads to the inch. It is, perhaps, not generally known that all the glass beads used for needle-work are manu- factured at Murano, near Venice. Tubes of coloured glass are drawn out to great lengths and fineness, in the same manner as those of more moderate lengths are made in this country for thermometers; these are cut into very small pieces of nearly uniform lengths, on the upright edge of a fixed chisel. These elementary cylin- ders are then put into a mixture of fine sand and wood-ashes, where they are stirred about until their cavities get filled. This mixture is then put into an iron pan, suspended over a moderate fire, when by being continually stirred they assume a smooth, rounded form. They are then removed from the fire, cleared out in the bore, and strung in bunches, constituting the beads as we meet them in commerce. Great quantities of these beads, packed in casks, are exported to all parts of the world. BEAN OMELET. Blanch your beans, and fry them in sweet butter with a little parsley; pour out the butter and pour in some cream. Let it simmer, shaking your pan; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; thicken with 3 or 4 yolks of eggs; have ready 1 pint of cream, thickened with the yolks of 4 eggs; season with a little salt, pour it in your dish, lay j'our beans on the omelet, and serve it up hot. BEAN PUDDING. Boil and blanch some old beans, then beat them in a mortar with a little pepper, salt, cream, and the yolk of an egg. A little spinach-juice will give a fine colour, but may be done without. Boil it an hour in a basin, and pour parsley and butter over it. Serve it with bacon. BEAN TANSY. Take 2 quarts of beans, blanch, and beat them very fine in a mortar; season with pepper, salt, and mace ; then put in the yolks of 6 eggs, J lb. of butter, 1 pint of cream, ^ pint of white wine, and sweeten to your palate. Soak 4 Naples biscuits in ^ pint of milk, and mix them with the other ingredi- ents ; add ^ pint of the juice of spinach, with 2 or 3 sprigs of tansy beat in it. Butter a pan, and bake it; then turn it on a dish and stick about it citron and orange-peel, candied and cut small. Garnish with Seville orange.