CHI CHI [ 286 ] pepper. Stew them gently for about an hour; then take out the chickens, and put in a bit of butter, the size of a walnut, worked into some flour, and thicken this over the fire. Pour part of this sauce on a dish, and upon tbe sauce a handful of Gru3'ere cheese grated, as there is underneath. Put the dish in a baking-pan, with fire above and below. When of a good colour serve it quite hot. If the cheese be very salt the chickens must be dressed previously without salt. CHICKEN CHJSINGATE. Having taken off the feet, beat the breast bones of your chickens flat, without breaking the skin ; flour, and fry them in butter. When of a nice brown take all the fat from the pan, leaving in the chickens, over which lay 1 lb. of gravy beef cut in thin slices; another piece of beef, also cut thin; some mace, cloves, pepper, an onion, a carrot, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour a quart of boiling water over the whole, cover it quite close, and let it stew. In a quarter of an hour take out the chickens, but let the gravy continue boiling, and when very rich strain it; then put it again into the pan, with a little red wine and a few mushrooms; then put in the chickens, and when they are hot dish them up and pour the sauce over them. Garnish with slices of lemon and broiled ham. CHICKEN AND CRAYFISH. Having boned two or three middling-sized chickens, roll them up, making them pointed at the neck, and braise them with the same number of crayfish for an hour. Then wipe off the fat, and put them on a dish in the following manner :—Put the pointed or neck part of the tail of a crayfish on the dish, place the body on a chicken, and the claws at the side. Prepare the sauce as usual, and pour it over the whole. CHICKEN CURRY. Take the skin off, and cut up a chicken, and roll each piece in curry powder and flour (mix together a spoonful of flour to ^-oz. of curry); fry two or three sliced onions in butter. When of a light brown put in the meat, and fry them together till the meat becomes brown ; then stew them together with a little water for two or three hours. More water may be added if too thick. CHICKEN FRITTERS. Make a batter with 4 eggs, some new milk, and rice flour; to this add a pint of cream, powder sugar, candied lemon-peel cut small, fresh lemon-peel gi'ated, and the white parts of a roasted chicken shred small. Set all these together on a stove, and stir well for some time. When done take it off, roll out the mixture, cut it into fritters, and fry them. Strew sugar on a dish, lay in the fritters, strew sugar over, and serve them hot. CHICKEN, GELATINE OF. Bone a nice plump chicken very carefully. Cut some ham and truffles into slips of an equal thickness, and as nearly of a length as possible; cut the chicken also into fillets, and add a few slices of veal. I'orm a sort of bed of these in the skin of the chicken, so that, when cut, the slices may be chequered. Season with all sorts of spices ; close the skin ; form it of a proper shape ; sew up the back, and stew it, covered with slices of bacon, parsley, onions, thyme, a bay leaf, a clove, a liLtie spice, carrots, two onions, and some slices of veal; then mix a little broth and a small quantity of calf's foot jelly When the jelly has boiled an hour take it off, and let it cool in the liquor. If this dish be sei'ved hot pour over it any brown sauce; it is, however, better served cold. Take some of the liquor, beat the whites of two or three eggs, and mix them with the cold jelly, after having skimmed off the fat; then put the whole over the fire again, and stir till the liquor is white; then let it boil gently. Next take the jelly from the fire, and lay it aside, with a cover and fire over it, when quite clear. Strain it through a cloth, and let it cool, to be used when wanted. If served cold more pepper and salt must be used. CHICKEN AND HAM (Potted). Season some pieces of chicken with mace, cloves, and pepper, and bake them for about three bom's in a close-covered pan with some water; then pound them quite small, moistening either with melted butter or the liquor they were baked in. Pound also some ham, and put this with the chicken in alternate layers in potting pans; press them down tightly, and cover them with butter. CHICKEN LOAF. Bone a chicken very carefully, and fill it with a ragout of sweetbreads. Make it as nearly as possible of the original form, tie it up in bacon, and wrap a cloth round it. Boil it in some white wine, stock, and sweet herbs. Serve it with Espagnole. CHICKEN A LA MARMOTTE. Boil some carrots and parsnips, cut into shapes, with some small onions, in a little broth. In the meantime cut some mushrooms and pickled cucumbers into dice, and stew them in a bit of butter, garlic, parsley, cloves, stock, salt, and pepper. When they have boiled slowly for a little time add a spoonful of cullis, the carrots, &c. Boil them up together, and serve over roasted chickens. CHICKEN MILK. Boil i pint of water ; beat up the yolks of 2 eggs with 1 oz. of powder sugar, a little orange-flower water, and salt; mix these well until the egg begins to whiten; then add the boiling water, stirring it very quickly, and drink it as hot as possible. CHICKEN AND YOUNG OYSTERS. Fill your chickens with young oysters cut small, truf- fles, parsley, and spices, and roast them. Blanch