CLE CLA C 311 ] caramel. Try it as before directed, and let the water be quite cold, or you will be deceived. If on taking it off the pipe it snaps like glass with a loud noise it has attained the proper degree. It will also, when it arrives at this point, assume a beautiful yellow colour. After this it will speedily burn, taking all the hues from a brown to a black; therefore, to prevent this, dip the bottom of the pan into a pail of cold water as soon as it comes to caramel, as the heat which is contained in the pan and sugar is sufficient to advance it one degree. Also be careful that the flame of the fire does not ascend round the sides of the pan, which will burn it. In boiling sugar keep the top of the pan partially covered from the time it commences boiling until it has attained the ball or crack; the steam which rises being again thrown on the sides, prevents the formation of the crust or crystals. To prevent its graining add a little of any sort of acid when it is at crack. A table-spoon- ful of common vinegar, 4 or 5 drops of lemon juice, or 2 or 3 drops of pyroligneous acid—any of these will have the desired effect. This is termed greasing it; but remember, too much acid will also grain it; neither can it be boiled to caramel if there is too much. A little butter added when it first commences boiling will keep it from rising over the pan, and also prevent its graining. About as much cream of tartar as may be laid on a sixpence, and added to 7 lbs. of the sugar, or equal quantities of cream of tartar and alum in powder, added when the sugar boils, will also keep it from candying. If sugar is poured on a slab that is too hot it is very apt to grain. This is frequently the case after several casts have been worked off in rotation; therefore, when you find it inclined to turn, remove it to a cooler spot if possible, and do not handle it any more than necessary. Sugar that has been often boiled or warmed is soon acted upon by the atmosphere, whereby it becomes clammy, and soon runs, as it is weakened by the action of the tire. Acid causes the same effect. If it has passed the degree you intended to boil it at add a little water, and give it another boil. CLARY FEITTERS. Beat up 3 eggs with 1^ spoonful of cream; then add a little ratafia, 3 spoonsful of flour, nutmeg, and sugar to the taste. Wash and dry thoroughly some clary leaves, dip them in the batter, and fry them. Garnish with Seville oranges, and serve them with melted butter. CLARY PANCAKES. Make a batter with 3 eggs, 3 spoonsful of flour, 1 pint of milk, and a little salt. Pour this batter in a thin layer on boiling lard, and on that a few well- washed and dried clary leaves, over which pour some more batter, and fry them, CLARY, SPIRIT OF. Take 1 quart of the juice of clary; clary flowers, clove gilly- flowers, archangel flowers, flowers of the lily of the valley, and comfrey flowers, of each 2 lbs. ; put these into 2 gallons of sack, and let them steep all night; then distil it in a glass still with a very gentle fire, and let the still be very well pasted to keep in the spirits. Put sifted sugar candy into the bottle you draw it in, and let it drop through a bag of ambergris. CLARY WATER. Put 2 quarts of fresh clary flowers, with 1 quart of borage water, into an earthen jar, which place in a large vessel of water over the fire. When it has stood an hour take out the flowers, and put in the same quantity of fresh flowers; in another hour take these out and throw in fresh, and so on for seven hours; then add 1 gallon of fresh flowers, 2 quarts of sack, and sweeten it with 2 lbs. of white sugar candy pounded ; distil it, and if necessary add more sugar candy. CLARY WINE. To 15 gallons of water put 45 lbs. of sugar, and, having boiled and skimmed it, put a small quantity of it to J pint of yeast; add a little more by degrees, and let it stand an hour ; then put both together, pour it on 12 quarts of clary flowers, and let it work. As soon as it has done bung it up for four months. Draw it off, and add 1 gallon of brandy ; stop it closely for six or seven weeks, and then bottle it. CLEAR STARCHING. For the following very full and correct directions we are indebted to the " Magazine of Domestic Economy." Clear starching, to be well done, requires very careful previous washing, and, in the case of lawns, muslins, and similar fine articles, they must be washed the way the selvage runs, to prevent fraying, in very clear hot water. Very hot water is apt to give them a yellow tinge. Strain the water before using it through a clear cloth into a pan; then take a small quantity, or according to the extent of the wash, of the best soap, put it upon a clean stick, and beat up a lather. When the lather has been thus pre- pared let the foulest of the light articles be put in one by one to soak out the dirt. They are then, while the water is still warm, to be washed out one by one, which prevents tearing. When well washed let them be squeezed very hard between both hands, so as to press out all the foul suds, and with the same view, when rinsing them out, shake them open into the pan they are put into. Now prepare a second lather similar to the first, and let the water in this be considerably hotter, though not quite scalding hot. Into this lather let the articles be put one by one as before, letting them stand a little,