CAT CAU [ 251 ] CATHARTICS. See Aperients. CAUDLE (1). Make a fine, smooth gruel of half grits. When boiled strain it; stir it at times till cold. When wanted for use add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with some nutmeg, accord- ing to taste. You may add, if you please, besides the wine, a spoonful of brandy or lemon-juice. CAUDLE (2). Boil up i pint of fine gruel, with a bit cf butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capUlaire, a piece of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. CAUDLE, BROWN. Boil the gruel the same as for White Caudle, with 6 spoonsful of oatmeal, and strain it; then add 1 quart of good ale, not bitter. Boil it, then sweeten it accord- ing to your taste, and add i pint of white wine. When you do not put in the white wine let it be half ale. CAUDLE, COLD. Boil a quart of spring water. When cold add the yolk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, 6 spoonsful of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and 1 oz. of syrup of lemon. CAUDLE AND FLOUR. Rub smooth 1 dessert-spoonful of fine flour into 5 large spoons- ful of the very purest water. Put over the fire 5 spoonsful of new milk, and add to it 2 bits of sugar. The instant it boils pour into it the flour and water, and stir it over a slow fire for twenty minutes. CAUDLE, RICE. Mix some grated rice with a little cold water, and then pour it into boiling water. When of a proper consistence add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon. To a quart of this put a glass of brandy. Boil all smooth. CAUDLE, WHITE. Mix 2 spoonsful of oatmeal in a quart of water, with a blade or two of mace, and a piece of lemon-peel. Stir it often, and let it boil fully twenty minutes. Strain and sweeten it, add a little white wine, nutmeg, and a little lemon-juice. CAULIFLOWER: To Dress. Cut off the stalks, but leave a little green on. Boil them in spring water and salt. They are soon done, but they must not boil too fast. They may also be dressed in milk and water, without salt. CAULIFLOWER A LA GENOISE. After the cauliflowers are boiled and are cold sprinkle them with Gruyere and Parmesan cheese grated; put them in a dish, buttered and strewed with cheese. Cover the cauliflowers with a thick white sauce, mixed with grated cheese. Sti'ew bread-crumbs on this; then pour butter over, then more bread-crumbs. Put the dish on hot ashes, and brown the tops. CAULIFLOWER, LOAF. Trim and pre- pare a fine cauliflower; then put it into cold water, and drain it. Line the bottom of a stew- pan (of the size of the dish you intend to use) with slices of bacon, and place the cauliflovrer on them with the head downwards. Make a stuffing with a fillet of veal, beef suet, parsley, scallions, mushrooms, all chopped small, salt, pepper, and 3 eggs. When these are all w-ell mixed together put it into the open spaces of the cauliflower, pressing it with the hand. Sea- son it well, and stew it with some stock. When the sauce is consumed turn the cauliflower out carefully on the dish, take away the bacon, and pour over it some cullis, with a little butter, and serve. CAULIFLOWER POTAGE. Take two cauliflowers, boil and drain them, pressing them a little; then thicken a little bechamel maigre with the yolks of 6 eggs, and add i lb. of butter, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg. Put in the cauliflowers, and when cold divide them into pieces about the size of a pigeon's egg; roll them in flour, and fry them in clarified butter. Drain, and put them in your soup-tureen, and pour over them some rich consomme. Serve it with grated cheese in a separate dish. CAULIFLOWER RAGOUT. Pull two small and one large cauliflowers into pieces, and stew them in a rich brown cullis, seasoned with pepper and salt; put them on a dish, and pour cullis over them. Garnish with sprigs of cauli- flower boiled very white. CAULIFLOWER A LA REINE. Make a sauce with a little ham and fillet of veal cut iu dice, a little butter, chopped parsley, shallots, and a clove of garlic. Let it stew over the fire a little while, then add a few spoonsful of jelly broth, and J pint of cream. Reduce it to a good thickness. Strain part of it into your dish, and place the cauliflower, properly pre- pared, therein; pour the remaining sauce over that. Garnish with bread-crumbs and small bits of butter, and brown it in the oven. CAULIFLOWER SALAD. When you have prepared and boiled the cauliflowers drain and let them cool. Cut them in pieces. Sea- son them with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and eat them as any other salad. CAULIFLOWERS AND BUTTER. Pre- pare two cauliflowers, and when they are drained cut them in pieces, and put them in a stewpan, with a bit of butter, some salt, and lemon-juice. Let them boil a little at first, then simmer; take care they are not done too much. Take them out, and cover them with a sauce made with butter, worked with flour, the yolks of eggs, and a little cream. CAULIFLOWERS AND CHEESE. Make a sauce with cullis, a bit of butter, and pepper, but no salt. Put iu a dish some grated Par- mesan or Gruyere cheese; place the cauliflowers (previously washed, picked, and boiled) on this.