C 473 ] EEU EPS gentian, 1 drachm ; syrup enough to make the mass into twenty-four pills, of which two maybe tiiken morning and evening, -with 2 ozs. of the decoction of Peruvian hark. The oil of turpentine has been mentioned by several writers as having been successfully used in some cases of epilepsy, as well as in other spasmodic diseases, given in considerable doses, •without which no evident effect can be produced, carrying it as far as loz. to a delicate, and l|oz. to a robust female, and to about 2 ozs. to a robust man, given in milk, fasting in the morning. This remedy, however, can only be emploved with advantage in cases depending upon a cause not connected with any diseased organisation of the brain, where its administra- tion could only tend, in all probability, more to aggravate the disease than to arrest and tran- quil! ise it. Things the most light, nutritive, and easy of digestion, taking care to avoid whatever is likely to prove flatulent, are best adapted to epileptic patients. Cheerful society and amusing pursuits during the intervals of the paroxysms should be courted: all violent passions and emotions of the mind must be guarded against; and the patient should be careful never to place himself in a dangerous situation, lest the fit should happen to attack him at that time. When, however, the fit is present, the patient must be prevented from doing himself any injury, and particularly that he does not get his tongue betwixt his teeth. In the mean- time, rubbing the nose, temples, and pit of the stomach with ether may go a great way in cutting short the fit by its action on the organs of smell. Change of climate and mode of life are among the other indications laid down for the cure of the severer forms of this disease. EPSOM SALT, or Sulphate of Magnesia, is a gentle purgative, rarely occasioning the griping caused by resinous purgatives. Dose, from 1 to 8 drachms. If the patient be kept warm it promotes perspiration, and with gentle exercise an increased flow of urine. EPSOM WATER is that saline spring which rises at the distance of about half a mile from the town of Epsom, in the county of Surrey. It is transparent and colourless, at first almost insipid, but a short time after it has been drunk it leaves a bitter, saline taste on the tongue. It does not suffer any material altera- tion by being exposed to the air, and if closely corked in clean vessels it may be preserved for several months in a fresh and drinkable state. As this water contains only a small portion of the salt, namely, from one to two scruples in the quantity of half a pint, the patient ought to drink from two to three pints successively within a short space of time in order to produce the full purgative effect. If taken in this dose it will operate in a mild and efficacious manner, but if in a smaller its action is determined to the kidneys. Epsom water is of considerable service in a variety of disorders, namely, hypochondriasis, an impaired state of health accompanied with tumours in the exti'emities, and a depraved digestion, to which sedentary persons are pecu- liarly liable. Those who are afflicted with hemorrhoidal and scorbutic complaints will be benefited by the liberal use of this saline water, •which likewise affords considerable relief in ob- structions of the viscera. This mineral water is easily imitated by dis- solving ^oz. of Epsom salt in a quart of pure water, rendered somewhat acid by the addition of a few drops of sulphuric acid. ERUPTIONS. Children while on the breast are seldom free from eruptions of one kind or other. These, however, are not often dangerous, and ought never to be dried up but with the greatest caution. They tend to free the bodies of infants from hurtful humours, which, if retained, might produce fatal dis- orders. The eruptions of children are chiefly owing to improper food and neglect of cleanliness. If a child be stuffed at all hours with food that its stomach is not able to digest, such food, not being properly assimilated, instead of nourishing the body, fills it with gross humours. These must either break out in form of eruptions upon the skin, or remain in the body, and occasion fevers and other internal disorders. That neglect of cleanliness is a very general cause of eruptive disorders must be obvious to every one. The children of the poor, and of all who despise cleanliness, are almost constantly found to swarm with vermin, and are generally covered with the scab, itch, and other eruptions. When eruptions are the effect of improper food or want of cleanliness a proper attention to these alone will generally be sufficient to remove them. If this should not be the case some drying medicines will be necessary. When they are applied the body ought at the same time to be kept open, and cold is carefully to be avoided. We know of no medicine tliat is more safe for drying up cutaneous eruptions than sulphur, provided it be prudently used. A little of the flowers of sulphur may be mixed with fresh butter, oil, or hog's lard, ajid the parts affected frequently touched with it. Eruptions, such as pimples, blotches, &c., in adults, usually indicate a disordered stomach. Alterative medicine, careful Diet, and Exer- cise (see our notes under those heads), will re- move the eruptions.