C H A CHA [ ''264 ] hacking of the skin of the hands, lips, and face, is usually to be avoided by protecting them from sudden changes of temperature, and by Aviping them quite dry after wetting them. The alkali in strong soaps also promotes chapping. Any sort of soap must, therefore, be used spar- ingly by those whose skin is addicted to chap- ping ; and if the water is unchilled (in fact, it should have been boiled), a little sweet oil and barley or oatmeal made into a paste, will answer all the purposes of soap unless the hands are very dirty. Should such be the case the paste may be used after the soap to prevent the effects of the soda. Washing the sore part with vinegar or lemon-juice and water has been found effica- cious ; afterwards applying cold cream, made of six parts of oil of almonds to one part of sper- maceti, with a small piece of white wax to give it consistency, and cold water, added drop by drop whilst melting, in about the same propor- tion as the oil. The following balsams and salves are also recommended :—To 2 tea-spoonsful of clarified honey add a few drops of lavender water ; anoint the affected parts frequently, and the hands before going to bed, covering them all night with gloves. Use warm milk and water for washing. Or, to 2 ozs. of clarified honey add 1 oz. of white wax, ^ oz. of myrrh, and | oz. of silver litharge. Mix these ingredients over a slow fire, adding milk of roses, eau de Cologne, lavender water, or any perfume you choose: keep m a jar or box for use. This is easier prepared than the honey paste of the perfumers, which is of so great repute for preserving a delicate skin, and made as follows:—Oil of almonds, 2 parts ; honey, 1 part; almond paste, 1 part. The honey, after clarifying, is added to the almond paste, and well kneaded together; the oil is then added by degrees, and also a small portion of yolk of egg, previously beaten up. When thoi'oughly in- corporated it is fit for use, and may be perfumed to taste with a few drops of essential oil. CHAR. Cleanse the chars, cut off the fins, tails, and heads, and lay them in rows in a long baking-pan, first seasoning them with pepper, salt, and mace. When done let them stand till cold. Pot them, and put clarified butter over. CHARCOAL is wood burnt under sand, or in some other mode which excludes the air, so that only the volatile parts of the wood are driven off. It is a black, inodorous, insipid, brittle substance; it is capable of destroying the smell and taste of avariety of vegetable and animal substances, espe- cially of mucilages, oils, and of matter in which extractive abounds; and some medicines are said to be even deprived of their characteristic odour by remaining in contact with it, as valerian, galbanum, balsam of Peru, and musk. The use ot charring the interior of water-casks, and of wrapping charcoal in clotlis that have acquired a bad smell, depends upon liiis property. For the same reason it furnishes a very excellent tooth powder, for which purpose that which is obtained from the areka nut, or from tlie shell of the cocoa- nut, is to I e preferred. Lardner's prepared charcoal consists of chalk finely powdered 3 ozs., rendered grey by the addition of charcoal or ivory black 1 oz. It is antiseptic, and has been administered internally to correct the putrid eructations which sometimes attend dyspepsia; but in order to pro- duce this effect it should be newly prepared, or such as has been preserved from the access of air, for it operates by absorbing the putrid gas, as well as by checking the decomposition of the undigested element. Dose, 10 grains to 1 drachm. Charcoal, when mixed with boiled bread, forms a very valuable poultice for foul and gangrenous sores. In a state of impalpable powder it is said to be effectual as a styptic. Dr. Odier in- forms us that the ce\ehra.tedpowder of Faynard, for stopping hemorrhage, was nothing more than the charcoal of beech-wood finely powdered. Charcoal is prepared for the purposes of medi- cine and the arts from a variety of substances, such as burnt sponge, which consists of charcoal with portions of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and subcarbonate of soda. It has been highly commended in glandular swellings of the throat and scrofulous complaints, in the form of an electuary, or in that of a lozenge, and it has been lately asserted that it owes its power to the presence of iodine. Vegetable ethiops, from the fucus vesiculosus, or bladder wrack, is used as the preceding. Besides the great advantage which charcoal affords to the artist and manufacturer, it has lately been employed with considerable success . 1. In correcting the burnt empyreumatic taste of ardent spirits ; 2. In depriving rancid oil of its disagreeable flavour; and 3. In restoring putrid meat. For these useful purposes, however, it is fit only when kept in close vessels im- mediately after it has been prepared, so that it may absorb no acidity or fixed air from the common atmosphere. When employed in the two first-mentioned cases it should be previously reduced to powder, a very large quantity of which is required for the rectification of distilled liquor, but a smaller proportion for purifying animal or vegetable oil, so that even the common train- oil may be rendered fit for being burnt in chamber lamps. From the great attraction which charcoal possesses for any kind of oily matter, or for that invisible something formerly called phlo- giston, it is excellently adapted to become an extensively useful agent in various branches of the arts. Charcoal renders the crystals of tartar very white and pure when employed in pre-