CAN [ 220 J CAM CAMPHOR MIXTURE. Put 10 drops of spirit of wine on ^ drachm of camphor; rub them together in a marble mortar, tlien gradu- ally add, stirring at the time, 1 pint of water. Strain it through linen. CAMPHOR OIL, for rubbing on polished fireirons, is made by warming in ^ pint of sweet oil i oz. of camphor, broken into small pieces. Shake it until the camphor is dissolved, and keep it in a bottle well corked. CAMPHORATED SPIRIT, or Spirits op Camphor. Dissolve 1 oz. of camphor in 1 pint of rectified spirits. This solution is chiefly employed as an embrocation in bruises, palsies, the chronic rheumatism, and for preventing gan- grenes. The above quantity of camphor, dis- solved in I lb. of the volatile aromatic spirit, makes Ward's essence. CANADA BALSAM, or Canadian Turpen- tine, is obtained from the balm of Gilead fir {Pinus halsamea). It is no more than a very fine, pale, liquid turpentine, and, mixed with half its weight of common spirit of turpentine, it makes a very good colourless varnish for card fire-screens, &c. CANAPES. Cut some slices of bread about an inch thick, and, having taken off the crusts, form the crumb into whatever shapes you may think proper, such as hearts, squares, lozenges, &c. Fry them in good olive oil to a nice colour, and drain them. Take some anchovies, hard eggs (the yolks and whites separate), gherkins, capers, &c.; chop them small, place them on the fried bread (having previously seasoned them with salt and vinegar), and pour over the whole. Serve this as a side-dish. CANAPES (with Pistachios). Make the canapes according to the above directions. When glazed whip up the white of an egg with 1 oz. of fine sugar; cover the canapes with this, and then mark them with pistachio nuts chopped small. Garnish them with apple jelly. The canapes may be glazed or marked with any. sort of sweetmeat or jelly you may think proper to use. CANAPIES. Cut some pieces of the crumb of bread about 4 inches long, 3 inches wide, and 1 inch thick. Fry them in boiling lard till of a light brown colour; then put them on a drainer, and cut into slips some breast of fowl, anchovies picked from the bone, pickled cucumbers, and ham or tongue. Then butter the pieces of bread on one side, and lay upon them alternately the different articles till filled. Trim the edges, and put the pieces (cut into ■what form you please) upon a dish, with slices of lemon round the rim, and serve in a sauce- boat a little mixture of oil, vinegar, C^.yenne pepper, and salt. CANARY. This wine is made in Canaria, one of the Canary Islands, close to the north- west coast of Africa. It is of the Malmsey character, but not so full-bodied as Teneriffe. CANARY, ARTIFICIAL. Fill a cask that has contained good Malaga wine with spring water, and for each gallon of water put G lbs. of bruised Malaga raisins, and over eveiy 20 gal- lons sprinkle a handful of calx wine. Close the cask, cover it with cloths, and let it stand four or five days in a warm place to ferment; then open it, and should the raisins float press them down ; cover it again, and let it stand a month, looking at it, and pressing down the raisins as above, every four or five days. At the month's end tap the vessel a few inches above the bottom, and if the liquor is properly flavoured draw it off into another Malaga cask, and to every 20 gallons add 1 pint of brandy, 1 quart of Alicant wine, and 2 eggs well beaten, and let it stand till ready for drinking. A little loaf-sugar may be added if not sufficiently sweet. Put into the whole a small quantity of white wine or good cider to made it brisk. CANCER. It is quite true that we have heard from medical men, who acknowledged themselves unable to cure this distressing dis- ease, that, from personal observation, they know a blacksmith, Hear Reading, in Berkshire, who has cured numerous cases. We record this, but are bound to add that we know of no surgeon who advocates anything but the eai-Iiest possible submission to an operation. If a hard, indolent tumour, usually seated in some of the glands of the breast, but frequently occurring on the lips, and other parts, even internally, becomes large, unequal, of a livid, blackish, or leaden colour, and is attended with violent pain, it gets the name of an occult cancer. When the skin is bi'oken, and a sanies or ichorous matter, of an abominably fetid smell, is discharged from the sore, it is called an open or ulcerated cancer. Persons after the age of forty-five, particularly women, and those who lead an indolent, sedentary life, are most subject to this disease. A cancer is an ulcer of the very worst kind, with an uneven surface and ragged and painful edges, which spreads in a very rapid mannei', discharges a thin, acrimonious matter that excoriates the neighbouring skin and has a very fetid smell, and which is usually preceded by a hard oi scirrhous swelling of the part, if glandular. This disease is often owing to suppressed evacuations. Hence it proves so frequently fatal to women of a gross habit, particularly old maids and widows. It may likewise be occasioned by excessive fear, grief, anger, melancholy, or any of the depressing passions. Hence the un- fortunate, the choleric, and those persons who devote themselves to a religious life in convents or monasteries are often afflicted with it. , It