BEE [ 96 ] BEE turning it three or four times. After this put it into an oven with some chopped suet and about 1 pint of water. When stewed enough, drain off the fat and gravy, and pound the meat in a mortar till it is perfectly smooth. Add thereto some Cayenne and white pepper, salt, pounded mace, a little of the clear gravy, and gradually put in about i lb. of oiled butter while beat- ing. When it is reduced to a proper consist- ence, lay it in pots covered with melted butter. This kind of meat is very good for weak stomachs. BEEF, POTTED (3). Take some lean beef, rub it with salt and saltpetre, and let it lay three or four days ; then cut it in pieces and boil it; beat it to a powder, mixing with it some fat; add spice, put it in pots, and pour butter over it. BEEF, POTTED (4). Take 2 lbs. of the fillet out of the inside of a rump of beef, and 2 lbs. of best fat bacon. Cut them small; put them into a marble mortar; add to them a small quantity of parsley, thyme, savory, 4 shallots, chopped fine, some pepper, salt, 2 spoonsful of essence of ham, 1 spoonful of mushroom powder, a little sifted mace, cloves, and allspice, 2 eggs beaten, and 1 gill of Rhenish wine. Pound all well together till quite fine; then fill small pots with the mixture, cover with paper, bake it gently for forty minutes, and, when cold, cover with clarified butter. BEEF, POTTED (5). Take 3 lbs. of lean beef, salt it two or three days with ^ lb. of common salt and ^ oz. of saltpetre ; divide into pieces of 1 lb. each, and put it into an earthen pan just sufficient to contain it; pour in ^ pint of water; cover it closely with paste and set it in a very slow oven for four hours ; when taken from the oven, pour the gravy from it into a basin; shi'ed the meat fine, moisten it with the gravy poured from the meat, and pound it thoroughly in a marble mortar, with fresh but- ter, till it becomes a fine paste; season it with black pepper and allspice, or pounded cloves, or grated nutmeg; put it in pots, press it down as close as possible, put a weight on it, and let it stand all night. Next day, when it is quite cold, cover it a quarter of an inch thick with clarified butter, and tie it over with paper. BEEF, POTTED (like Venison). Take a whole thin flank of beef, pull off the inward skin, and slash it across and across, particularly in the thickest parts; lay it for six hours in pump- water ; take as much hard salt or saltpetre as the bulk of an eggj mixed with about 2 lbs. of white salt, and rub it well into the meat; then sprinkle upon it nearly I pint of wine vinegar, and then let it lay for three or four days, turn- ing and rubbing it once a day; then rinse it out of the brine with a pint of claret, and season it with cloves, mace, and nutmeg, white and Jamaica pepper, of each ^oz., beaten alto- gether, with savory, thyme, sage, and the rind of a lemon, shred together, and then well rubbed into the cuts and slashes, and the inside; then bind it up with tape, and lay it in a long pot; put in the claret and lay the skins at the top to save it; then bake it. BEEF, PRESSED. Salt a piece of brisket (thin part of the flank) or the tops of the ribs with salt and saltpetre five days ; then boil it gently till extremely tender; put it under a great weight Or in a cheese-press till perfectly cold. It eats excellently cold and for sand- wiches. BEEF RAGOUT. Take a rump of beef, cut the meat from the bone, flour and fry it; pour over it a little boiling water and about a pint of small beer; add a carrot or two, an onion stuck with cloves, some whole pepper, salt, a piece of lemon-peel, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let it stew an hour, then add some good gravy; when the meat is tender take it out, strain the sauce, and thicken it with a little flour ; add a little celery, ready boiled, and a little catsup ; put in the meat and just simmer it up; or the celery may be omitted and the ragout enriched by adding mushrooms, fresh or pickled, arti- choke bottoms, boiled and quartered, and hard yolks of eggs. BEEF, RED (for Slices). Take a piece of the flank of beef and cut off the skin; then rub it well with a mixture made with 2 lbs. of common salt, 2 ozs. of bay salt, 2 ozs. of salt- petre, and 1 lb. of moist sugar, pounded in a marble mortar. Put it into an earthen pan, and turn and rub it daily for a week; then take it out of the brine, wip« it, and strew it all over with some pounded mace, cloves, pepper, a little allspice, and a good quantity of chopped parsley, and a few shallots. Then roll it up, bind it round with tape, bruise it till tender, press it in the same way as you press a collared pig, and when it is cold cut it in slices, and garnish with pickled barberries. BEEF, RIB OF. Keep two or three ribs of beef till perfectly tender, take out the bones, and skewer the meat as round as possible. Some cook eggs, and stufi' them with beef stuff"- ing. At first place it at some distance from the fire, and let it approach gradually. It will take four or five hours. BEEF, RIB OF (Braised). Trim a rib of beef; take out the bone, and lard it with pieces of bacon seasoned with nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, cloves, salt, and pepper; line the bottom of a stewpan with slices of bacon, veal, and beef Have ready 14 carrots, 5 large onions, 3 of which must be stuck with cloves, 2 bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley, and a bunch of scallions. Tie your beef in a neat form, and put it into