FRI (1139 ] FRI ration, strengthens the fibres, and increases the ■warmth and energy of the whole system. In rheumatism, gout, palsy, and green sickness it is an excellent remedy. Daily friction of the whole body was with the ancients, and is still in the East Indies, con- sidered one of the most indispensable requisites of a people who, by their indolent manner of life, seem to have adopted it more with a view to indulge in sensual pleasures than as a pre- servative of health. It is, however, one of the most salutary expedients, by which the whole body receives nearly as much benefit as from a tepid bath, and which, as being in the power of every person, ought to be more frequently and more generally used. To the sedentary, the hypochondriac, and persons troubled with indigestion, who have not leisure to take suffi- cient exercise, the daily friction of the belly in particular cannot be too much recommended as a substitute for other means, in order to dissolve pituitous stagnations which may be forming in the abdomen, and to re-invigorate the vessels. And though it be not attended with all the advantages enjoyed from exercise in the open air, it still produces a powerful effect on the organs of digestion ; for the moderate exercise of a whole day will scarcely invigorate the ab- dominal vessels, and particularly the stomach, 60 much as the friction of these parts continued for half an hour. But if it be intended for these beneficial purposes it should be per- formed in the morning on an empty stomach, or in bed before we rise, gently and steadily in a circular direction, and at least for five or ten minutes at a time. In a weak state of the abdomen and the nerves in general we may derive still more salutary effects from friction if the stomach and the whole abdomen be rubbed every morning, and at night before going to bed, with a sponge or a piece of flannel dipped in cold water. This possesses still greater advantages over internal medicines, because it can be safely em- ployed even in cases were the alimentary canal, from its obstructed state, scarcely admits of any other remedy, while friction and the affusion of cold water generally relieve these obstructions, and even habitual costiveness. FRILL-WHIPPING. First divide the work, and mark it as for gathering. Hold the right side of the frill downwards next the forefinger, and roll the edge very tightly between the thumb and finger. Point the needle towards the chest, putting it in on the right side of the work, and bringing it out on the wrong side just below the roll. Place the stitches at such a distance that the thread may draw easily, taking particular care that the thread be strong and even. In sewing the frill on to the shirt. or whatever article it is intSnded for, hold the frill towards your bosom, and then take every whip up, observing that the needle must be a little slanted towards the left shoulder, that the thread may be between the whips. FRITTERS. Make them of any of tne batters directed for pancakes by dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or make a plainer sauce, and put pared apples sliced and cored into the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants, or lemon sliced as thin as possible, are very nice. FRITTERS, ALTONA. 'Pare some fine pippin or bell-flower apples that are quite ripe, and of the largest size; then extract the cores with a tin apple corer, so as to leave the hole in the centre smooth and even. Spread the sliced apples on a large flat dish, and squeeze on each slice some lemon juice; then sprinkle them thickly with powdered white sugar. Prepare a batter made in the proportion of eight eggs to a quart of rich milk, and a pint and a half of sifted flour. Having beaten the eggs till very light and thick, add them gradually to the milk in turn with the flour, a little at a time of each, and stir the whole very hard. Have ready over hot coals a skillet, with a plentiful portion of the best fresh butter, melted and boiling hard. Dip the slices of apple twice into the batter, and then put them into the skillet of butter, as many at a time as it will contain without running into each other as they spread. While they are frying keep shaking the skillet about, holding it by the handle; they will puff up very lightly, and must be done of a bright brown. Take them out with a perforated skimmer that will drain off the butter. Have ready some powder sugar flavoured with nutmeg or cin- namon, roll the fritters in this, and send them to table hot. FRITTERS, BATTER FOR. Put into a large basin ^ lb. of flour, three spoonsful of oil, a little salt, and half a glass of water; lieat up this paste well with a wooden spoon; add water or beer until the batter is moderately thick, and then mix in gradually the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth. The batter should be made two or three hours beforehand, so that the fritters may become lighter by fermentation. Serve them sprinkled with powder sugar, and, if you like, ice them in a Dutch oven. FRITTERS AU BLANC. Mix together a handful of rice flour and some milk, set it on the fire, stirring constantly, add a little cream, sugar, lemon-peel, and orange flowers, and when it has become of a proper consistence take it from the fire. As soon as it is cold roll it into balls about the size of a nut, dip them ia batter, and fry them. FRITTERS, BLONDIN Put some butter 3 M