BOW [ 144 ] BOU and simple in tlieir form and construction. Twenty or thirty violets are tied together round a stalk of the Spanish rushes, then two or three leaves of common ivy are arranged and tied im- mediately under the blossoms, as it were, to keep them together, and preserve them from injury. These ivy leaves are arranged close to the blos- soms, and their margins form, as nearly as possible, a kind of circle about an inch beyond the violets. In general form or outline this miniature bouquet has some resemblance to a composite flower, the violets forming, as it were, the disc, and ivy leaves the ray, while the deep green and blue of the one and the other asso- ciate very well together in point of colour. Sometimes a light-coloured floret of lilac, or of a hyacinth, is stuck in the centre of the violets ; but whatever it may be, this central addition has its petals open and regular. Another style of miniature bouquet, also very common at present, is composed simply of a rose surrounded with neat sprigs of arbor-vitse, hemlock spruce, or cypress. The common hair moss [Polytrichum commune) is also sometimes used for this purpose, but in general, and espe- cially for the violets, the ivy leaves take prece- dence of all the others. In the larger bouquets mignonette is much used for the purpose of filling up, and also for forming a distinct circle. The best examples to be seen at Paris early in May are composed nearly as follows :— No. I. Centre—"White camellia. 1st circle—Mignonette, with lialf-expanded roses at certain distances, and slightly raised. 2nd circle—Cinerarias of various colours, and one or two sprigs of geranium. 3rd circle—Tulips and naicissuses, interspersed with one or two sprigs of acacia raised a little. 4th circle—Mixed crocuses, chiefly blue, with sprigs of pelargoniums. 5th circle—Mignonette, and one or two roses, slightly raised. Cth circle—Narcissuses, and white crocuses or con- vallaria. 7th or outer circle—Arbor-vitae, hemlock spruce, or similar evergreens. No. ir. Centre—Variegated camellia. 1st circle—Narcissuses, with raised sprigs of migno- nette, or pelargonium. 2nd circle—Neapolitan violets, interspersed with rose- buds, raised between the sprigs of mignonette of the preceding circle. 3rd circle—Mixed tulips and crocuses. 4th circle—Purple cinerarias, with sprigs of migno- nette here and there. Mil circle—Narcissuses, convallarias or primroses, in- terspersed with a few roses. fith circle—Mignonette, with sprigs of acacia (flowers and leaves). 7 th or outer circle—Arbor-vitee, &c. In these examples the i^ulips, narcissuses, violets, and mignonette abound; while the roses, the acacias, cinerarias, &c., form, as it were, the alto-relievos, which give elegance and expression to the whole arrangement. They are, however, sparingly used, otherwise the very end to be kept in view would be defeated. Of the raised flowers mignonette is the most freely employed. Pelargoniums are used either as raised flowers or otherwise, according to circumstances. The acacias and roses can only be introduced mode- rately, that is to say, they should be made to keep a considerable distance from one another. Instead of camellias at the centre, a crown im- perial, surrounded with a deep circle of migno- nette and roses may be chosen, and one or two sprigs of orange blossom may alternate here and there with the mignonette. The centre may also be composed of a fine flower of UlKHlodeinli-an arhorewn; but that is only to be adopted when other flowers of equally warm colours are plenti- ful at hand. Then roses, azaleas, cyclamens, tulips, cinerarias, &c., must predominate over narcissuses, crocuses, convallarias, and other sorts of the like tints. In this case even mig- nonette cannot be so freely used as in the ex- amples noted ; for, as before observed, the centre is the key of the whole arrangement, and all the other circles must be composed in accordance with it, just as a melody is regulated by the chords in which it has been struck. BOURBONNE-LES-BAINS. This French town is situated in the department of Haute- Marne, and about seventeen miles from Langres. It is celebrated for its mineral waters, which are used only for bathing. Their chief ingredients are common salt and gypsum. The water is closely imitated by using the following ingre- dients :—Common salt, lbs.; chloride of cal- cium, 2|lbs.; Glauber's salt, 4 lbs.; and bi- carbonate of soda, i lb.; bromide of potassium, 230 grains; water, 60 gallons. Dissolve the chloride of calcium and bicarbonate of soda in about 10 gallons of the water, cold ; dissolve the other salts in the remaining water, warm ; mix the two together, and use the bath immediately at such a temperature as mav be directed. BOWELS, PAIN IN THE. That disease which we shall notice here is also called the dry belly-ache, from not being accompanied by purging; Devonshire colic, from being prevalent in that and other cider counties ; and painters' colic, because workmen in that trade are liable to it. This species of colic is distinguished from those which so nearly resemble it by obstinate costiveness, with a vomiting of a porraceous or leek-like bile, severe pain at the navel shooting towards the sides with excessive violence, strong convulsive spasms in the bowels and muscles of the abdomen, with a paralytic tendency of the legs and arms, and a bent position of the patient's