[ 491 ] FE V FEV and folds of linen moistened with vinegar and water constantly applied to it; his feet should also be occasionally placed in warm water. In all cases of this disease, in consequence of the sickness which prevails at the commence- ment, it will be proper to cleanse the stomach by means of a gentle emetic of the powder of ipecacuanha, or solution of tartarised antimony, after which the bowels may be opened with some mild laxative, such as the following:—Take tartrate of potash, 2 drachms; infusion of senna, 1^ oz.; tincture of jalap, 1 drachm. Or, jalap, 15 grains ; calomel, 5 gi-ains. When vomiting prevails as a symptom of this fever antimonials will be impi'oper. Flannels wrung out in a warm decoction of camomiles and poppy heads may be applied to the region of the stomach ; also ten drops of the tincture of opium, given in some saline vehicle ; e.g., two or three grains of nitre in an ounce or two of water. As soon as it is found that the fever shows a disposition to yield, and when a perfect remis- sion takes place, the Peruvian bark should be given in substance, as directed in Ague, or inter- mittent fever; and should it occasion purging, a few drops (about ten) of the tincture of opium may be added to each dose. To guard against a relapse the bark should be continued for some days after the attacks have ceased, and in seasons and places where this disease is prevalent the bark may be used as a preventive by taking some of the compound tincture about twice a day, or in the morning on an empty stomach. Fever, Simple Continued. Inflammatory fever and typhus, blended in some degree, are supposed to constitute tbis species of fever, the first preponderating at its commencement, tbe latter towards its termination. It is contagious, and occurs more frequently in this country than any other kind of fever. It is induced by everything that has a manifest tendency to enervate or weaken the body ; consequently we find it arising from excessive bodily fatigue, too great indulgence in sensual pleasures, intem- perance in drinking, passions of the mind, and suppression of accustomed discharges; but the most ordinary cause is the application of cold to the body, checking tbe natural perspiration, &c. Other causes are the breathing infectious air from the bodies of people labouring under disease, exhalations arising from putrid animal or vegetable substances, &c. The symptoms marking an attack of this fever are nearly the same which characterise the preceding species, and when the symptoms run high there is a considerable determination of blood to the head, delirium, with, as in most other fevers of the continued kind, an increase of the symptoms towards the evening. If the disease be likely to prove fatal, either from the severity or its long continuance, there is a starting of the tendons, pricking of the bedclothes, involuntary discharges by urine and stool, coldness of the extremities, hiccups, &c.; but where these ominous appearances do not take place the disease runs through its course, and ultimately ceases. It has been supposed that the termination of continued fevers usually happens on certain critical days, viz., the third, fifth, seventh, ninth, eleventh, fourteenth, seventeenth, and twenty- first. It would be fruitless to attempt to furnish the various incidents and peculiarities of fever generally for the information and practice of the domestic practitioner, as it would certainly be more safe to omit medicine entirely than to intrust, much less to recommend, the manage- ment of the patient in these dangerous diseases to any but those who are qualified, by their knowledge of the structure and functions of the human frame, and with the diseases to which it is liable from so many commixed causes, since it belongs exclusively to the profession of medicine, embodied with much practical ex- perience and acquaintance with the animal economy under disease, to distinguish critical and salutary changes from such as have a contrary tendency and effect. It is necessary, however, at the same time, to remark that there is something in all disorders requiring particular attention to the state of the bowels. After these have been cleared out by the necessary and proper means, should the patient particularly request it, he may be in- dulged in moderation in whatever he may ask for, as in fever it is no uncommon occurrence for peculiar longings to arise, although they may not always appear to be proper. It is requisite also to observe, or rather to repeat, that the patient, during the progress of the disease, should avoid all motion of the body, and consequently ought to be confined to bed. All external or internal impressions which lead to thought, as proving stimuli to the body, and tending to excite motion or passion, are to be guarded against. The patient should be kept as quiet and composed as possible; his apart- ment kept cool and suflSciently ventilated by admitting fresh air, taking care, however, that it does not come upon him in a direct stream or current. His bedclothes should not be too heav-y. In this, as in all fevers of the continued type, animal food, spirits, or fermented liquors, &c., should not be taken; the patient's aliment should be of the light nutritious kind, and such as' is easily digested, consisting of barley water, sago, vermicelli, &c., changing them now and