I 439 ] DYE DYE radish, and boil the whole together; then strain it through a sieve, and send it up hot. DYE FOR HAIR. The following is the best ever invented. Before applying it the hair should be well cleaned and freed from grease by washing it with a very weak solution of conimon soda. You must have two preparations ready, composed as follows :—No. 1. Mix hydrosul- phuret of ammonia, 1 oz.; solution of potash, 3 drachms ; distilled water, 1 oz. No. 2. Ni- trate of silver, 1 drachm ; distilled water, 2 ozs. Apply preparation No. 1 to the hair with a tooth-brush, and continue it on for fifteen or twenty minutes. Then brush over the hair No. 2, using a comb at the same time to separate the hairs, and to allow every part of them to be touched by the preparation. If the colour given be not dark enough repeat the application of each solution. Gloves should be worn whilst using No. 3, or the hands may be indelibly stained. DYEING. This is a chemical art, and con- sists in fixing upon cloths or other articles colours which shall not easily be altered by those agents to which they are generally ex- posed. The chief materials of stuffs to be dyed are wool, silk, linen, and cotton, the two former being the most easily dyed, owing to their greater attraction of the colouring matter. Considerable skill is required in ascertaining the various degrees of facility with which different substances attract and retain the colouring fluid, in order to apply the tinge of the intended hue ; and as there is no cause why any dye will ad- here to a substance except by an attraction sub- sisting between them, few colours are capable of indelibly fixing themselves by simple applica- tion. Wool is more easily dyed than any other material of which cloth is manufactured. In many parts of the kingdom wool and woollen yarn fur weaving or knitting into hose is dyed at home. It requires little preparation, nothing more, in fact, than to cleanse it by scouring from it a fatty substance called the yolk contained in the lleece. In order to effect this alkaline liquor is necessary, and that generally used is putrid urine, which contains just sufficient volatile alkali to unite with the grease, and render it soluble in water. Prejwed alkalies are also used ; but if these are too strong they will injure the wool. The rule is to apply the alkali in just sufficient sti'ength to convert the yolk into soap, and cause it to wash away fi'om the wool. In preparing silk it is usual to boil it with an alkali, to disengage the varnish with which it is covered when taken from the cocoon. Fine soap is commonly used for this purpose ; but the process is a delicate one, and the white China silk, which has a fine lustre, is supposed to be prepared without. These preliminaries are necessary for two reasons; first, to render the substance clear and clean, in order that it might imbibe the colouring fluid the more minutely ; and secondly, that the stuff may be rendered whiter, and enable the colours to exhibit more brilliant tints, and to reflect the light. Some of the preparatory inamersions form part of the dyeing process in addition to cleaning the stuff. These substances are described by the French word mordant (signifying sharp, biting), and are applied in order that the article may afterwards take a required tinge. By means of this mordant the process is varied, for if applied over the wliole piece in- tended to be dyed the colour will be general over the surface; if applied to parts the dye will strike those parts only. The latter method is adopted for calico-printing, or printing other substauces in pattern colours. The process is thus described by Berthollet:— The mordant employed for linens intended to receive different shades of red is prepared by dissolving in 8 lbs. of hot water 3 lbs. of alum and 1 lb. of acetate of lead, to which 10 ozs. of potash, and afterwards 10 ozs. of powdered chalk are added. In this mixture the sulphuric acid combines with the lead of the acetate, and falls down, because insoluble, while the aigillaceous acetic salt and the small quantities of alkali and chalk serve to neutralise any disengaged acid which might be contained in the liquid. Several advantages are obtained by thus changing the acid of the alum. First, the argil- laceous earth is more easily disengaged from the acetic acid in tlie subsequent jirocesses than it would have been from the sulphuric. Secondly, this weak acid does less harm when it seems to be disengaged by depriving it of the earth ; and thirdly, the acetate of alumina, not being crystallisable like the sulphate, does not separate or curdle by drying in the face of the blocks for printing when it is mixed with gum or starch. When the design has been impressed by transferring the mordant from the face of the wooden blocks to the cloth it is then put into a bath of madder, with proper attention that the wliole shall be equally exposed to this fluid. Here the piece becomes of a red colour, but deeper in those places where the mordant was a]iplied ; for some of tlie argillaceous earth had before quitted the acetic acid to combine with the cloth, and this serves as an intermedium to fix the colouring matter of the madder, in the same manner as the acid of galls fixes the particles of oxide of iron when an article in- tended to be dyed black is first soaked in that