[ 161 ] BRE BRE permit, instead of the ale, one small breakfast- cup, not more, of good strong black tea or coffee (weak tea or coffee is always bad for the nerves as well as the complexion). If tea or coffee is taken, the half pint of ale is to be used three hours after breakfast with a biscuit on returning from good walking exercise. Whether break- fast be partaken of before or after gentle exer- cise may be left to the individual choice; we prefer the exercise afterwards. Supposing the usual routine to be followed, we may observe that breakfast is a meal that is often overlooked in the arrangement of a house- hold. All the attention appears, in such cases, to be devoted to the dinner; but nothing denotes a well-ordered establishment more than seeing a nicely-laid breakfast and lunch-table. Few sights can be more grateful to the " half-opened eye " than on descending to the bi'eakfast-room to find a cloth white as snow, laid without a crease. The hissing urn at one end, coffee or cocoa at the other; home-made bread (white and brown) on wooden platters ; butter, made up into small pats, floating in pure spring water; a rack of light brown toast, and a plate of water- cresses " culled from the rippling stream ;"—= such a breakfast is within the means of any one of our readers. There is nothing expensive about it—nothing " out of the way." All that is required is, a little arrangement, great neat- ness, excessive cleanliness; and this can he accomplished as well if the establishment consists of one or of several servants. " The master's eye does more work than both his hands " is a very true saying, and equally applicable to the " young housekeeper" as to the farmer, for whom the maxim was originally intended. Of course, if your means will permit, many other things can be added, and your table may "groan with all the delicacies of the season," but do not have meat placed on the table at which you sit; it destroys tlie primitive, com- fortable look a breakfast-table ought to have. The only additions are hot rolls, buttered muffins, and a " dish of curd-like looking eggs." The siibstantials must be placed on the sideboard, and should consist of home-cured ham, savoury pie, spiced beef or hung beef, and a hot dish, which can be varied according to what the cook can command from her larder. Tea-making. Doctors differ materially as to the manner of making tea; but we like the old- fashioned method of putting the tea in first, and pouring the boiling water on it, adding as much carbonate of soda as will lie easily on the handle of a tea-spoon. M. Soyer recom- mends the tea-leaves being heated over a spirit lamp before the water is poured on them. Other authors prefer the tea-pot being filled with water fir.st, and then the leaves added. We believe the great secret in tea-making to be this:—Put plenty of tea into the pot, and have the water quite boiling. Coffee is very often a failure, particularly if made in the kitchen. The surest way of having it always the same is, to make it the day before in a biggin, and then the cook will have nothing to do but boil it up in the morning, and pour it, whilst very hot, into your coffee-pot. If you like it strong you must allow a coffee- cupful of ground coffee to three cupsful of water. A very nice and economical way of making coffee is the cafe au lait, patronised so much by our neighbours. We never procured the receipt from a French cook, therefore we cannot tell if our mode of preparing it is the same as theirs, but the result is good:—Put two table- epoonsful of ground coffee into a coffee-pot, with i pint of milk, and 4 or 5 shreds of isin- glass ; let it boil ten minutes, and then leave it by the side of the fire to fine. Pour it through a piece of fine muslin into your coffee-pot. If you wish for good coffee, make a rule never to buy it ready-ground, and always purchase it at one of the best shops in the place. Inferior coffee is worse than inferior tea. See Coffee. Cocoa and chocolate are very easily made : directions are always inclosed in the paper in which they are sold. Eolh. There are numerous receipts for making good rolls ; we find the following a simple and sufficiently rich one :—Warm i pint of milk, with a piece of butter in it about the size of a large walnut; add a table-spoonful and a half of yeast and a little salt. Mix this with 2 lbs. of flour, and, when it has risen, knead it and divide into rolls. Bake in a quick oven. Rolls should not be made larger than the top of a wine-glass ; and care must be taken that the dough is not joined at the top of the roll. A little practice will soon show the cook how this can be prevented. Before placing them in the oven the rolls should be washed with a little milk, which gives them nearly as good a gloss as if an egg were used. Muffins are not so easily made; and, if possible, we advise their being purchased ; but, if you prefer making them at home, this receipt is a good one :—Make a batter with 1 pint of M-arm milk, \ pint of yeast, a little salt, and sufficient flour. When it has risen add \ ])\nt of warm milk and enough flour to make a dough. Cover it up, and when it has stood half an hour, break it into pieces, and round them to the proper shape with the hand. Bake on a hot plate or stove, and when one side is sufix- ciently brown, turn them. Dry toast. There is more attentioA required in making dry toast than people generally M