BIS BIS L 117 J place your pan over a chafing-dish; continue whipping the whole for full half an hour; and then, if the drop which falls from the whisk lays a little while without spreading, take it from the fire and whisk it again till it is cold ; then add ^ lb. of fine-sifted flour, stirring it in gently with a wooden spoon. Drop the biscuits on paper, sift sugar over, and bake them in a warm oven until of a deep yeUow; take them from the papers while warm. Bake them as soon as pos- sible after they are dropped on the paper. BISHOP (1). Make numerous incisions in the rind of a lemon; stick cloves in these in- cisions, and roast the lemon by a slow fire. Put small but equal quantities of cinnamon, cloves, mace, allspice, and a race of ginger into a sauce- pan with I pint of water; let it boil until re- duced to ^ pint. Boil a bottle of port wine, and, by applying a lighted paper, burn a small portion of the spirit out of it. Add to the wine the roasted lemon and spice; stir all well toge- ther, and let the mixture stand for ten minutes before the fire. Rub some lumps of sugar on the rind of a lemon; put these into a bowl or jug with the juice of half an unroasted lemon; pour the wine upon the mixture, grate a little nutmeg upon it, sweeten to your taste, and then you have the bishop. Serve it up with the lemon and spice floating on it. BISHOP (2). Roast 4 good-sized bitter oranges till they are of a pale brown colour; lay them in a tureen, and put over them | lb. of pounded loaf sugar and 3 glasses of claret; place the cover on the tureen, and let it stand till next day. When required for use put the tureen into a pan of boiling water, press the oranges with a spoon, and run the juice through a sieve; then boil the remainder of the bottle of claret, taking care that it does not burn ; add to it the strained juice, and serve it warm in glasses. BISHOP, ESSENCE OF. Steep 3ozs., apothecaries' weight, of bruised allspice in a quart of brandy for a fortnight, occasionally shaking it up; then pour off the clear liquid. Good for gravies, mulled wine, potted meats, &c. BISMUTH is a metal much used in the arts. Pearl-white is an oxide, or rather a sub-salt, of this metal. Ladies have used it for painting the skin, to which it imparts a beautiful white; but it has the inconvenience of becoming black by the contact of sulphuretted hydrogen gas, or the fumes of fetid substances. The gas which arises from the burning of mineral coal will have the same effect. It is related of a lady of fashion, who had incautiously seated herself too near the fire at a quadrille-table, that her countenance changed on a sudden from a deli- cate white to a dark tawny as though by magic. The surprise and confusion of the whole party had sujch an effect upon the disfigured fair one, that she was actually dying with apprehension, when the physician dispelled their fears by informing his patient that nothing more was necessary than for her to abstain from the use of mineral cosmetics, and to trust in future to those charms which nature had bestowed upon her. Some of the French chemists recommend the use of the oxides of bismuth for dyeing, to fix some particular colours. It is eaid that pomatum prepared with the oxide of bismuth will turn the hair black. The solution of bismuth in nitric acid has been used as a sympathetic ink. When first written the letters are invisible; but if the paper be plunged in water the characters be- come perfectly legible. The common mixture for pewter is 112 lbs. of tin, 15 lbs. of lead, and 6 lbs. of brass ; but many manufacturers use also bismuth and antimony to compose this metal. Bismuth is likewise generally mixed with tin for vessels of capacity, &c., as it gives to that metai a greater degree of brilliancy and hardness. From its property of rendering lead more fusible it is too often employed with that metal to adulterate quicksilver. If 8 parts of bismuth, 5 of lead, and 3 of tin be melted together, the mixed metal will fuse at a heat no greater than 212°. Tea-spoons made with this alloy are sold in London to surprise those who are unacquainted with their nature. They have the appearance of bright pewter tea-spoons, but melt as soon as they are put into hot tea. A composition of lead, zinc, and bismuth in equal parts will melt with so small a portion of caloric, that it may be kept in fusion upon paper over a lamp. BISQUE. Take what fish you please, wash and clean it; then pickle it for an hour in white wine vinegar, a handful of salt, a whole spice, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole onions, and the grated peel of a lemon. Nearly cover the whole of the fish with these ingredients, and when it is pickled in them for an hour put it with the ingredients into a saucepan, and when it is about half boiled add some boiling water to it; this will make the fish very firm. Then fry the remainder of your fish; make a rich sauce with oysters, shrimps, mushrooms, capers, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 anchovies, 2 onions stuck with cloves, the yolks of 2 eggs, the juice of a lemon, grated nutmeg, and some scraped horseradish. Mix all these together with 2 lbs. of butter, and let it be very thick; dish your fish, and pour over it the sauce. Garnish your fried fish with parsley, horseradish, and sliced lemon. Serve it hot. BISTORT, Pohjrjonum bistorta, is also known as snakeweed. The root is about the thickness of a finger, perennial, crooked, wrinkled, of a firm texture, and of a reddish or flesh colour,