ERY [ 475 ] ESO such as manna, lenitive electuary, Epsom salts, &c., in small and repeated doses, or the imperial drink, made as follows :—Take supertartrate of potass (cream of tartar), ^ oz.; lump sugar, 4 ozs.; hot water, 3 pints. This is also an excellent laxative beverage in inflammatory fevers, where great thirst prevails. At bedtime the patient may take from 10 to 30 grains of the compound powder of ipecacuanha (Dover's sudorific pow- der), drinking freely, but not immediately after taking it, lest it should occasion vomiting, of weak wine whey, toast and water, or barley water, in which a small quantity of the nitrate of potass (nitre) has been dissolved, for the pur- pose of procuring a gentle perspiration. With respect to diet, animal food should not be in- dulged in; light puddings, sago, panada, &c., are the most proper articles. There is one circumstance which alone should weigh well with family practitioners before they attempt the treatment of the severer forms of this disease, viz., when properly conducted it not unfrequently proves a cure to disorders which have long and obstinately resisted every attempt to remove them. Of external applications we need say but little, for, when the disease is only present in such a degree as to be a proper object of domestic treat- ment, no particular application is necessary, it being sufficient to defend the affected parts from the air by some substance that will not adhere to them. Independently of this, the selection of external applications, as well as of internal reme- dies, must be directed by the state of the system and of the part affected. Solutions of lead, copper, or alum are not to be employed, as they would prove injurious. Oily applications seem to aggravate the parts; cooling lotions, never- theless, have been employed with advantage in the following form:—Take equal parts of Minde- rerus' spirit (the acetated liquor of ammonia), cr muriated ammonia dissolved in water, with the addition of a little vinegar and camphorated spirit. Cloths wetted with this mixture and applied are found to be very grateful to the patient's feelings; but if the disease be mild, and unaccompanied with fever, it will be suf- ficient to keep the patient within doors, without confining him to bed. This disease never appears in aged people, nor in those who have lived freely, without denoting such a state of the system as must exact all the assistance that can be obtained from judgment and experience. Its occurrence in youth and middle age is seldom dangerous except when accompanied with much fever, or when it extends over a considerable surface. There is such a state of body as may be termed erysipelatous—a system, from some con- dition of the blood or nerves, bo predisposed to erysipelatous inflammation that the slightest injury or irritation will produce a considerable degree of erysipelatous or erythematous inflam- mation—as the puncture of a leech, the scratch of a pin—and in which a blister, slight excoria- tion, or even a stimulating plaster, will excite considerable and extensive inflammation. In such habits it is of great consequence to guard against costiveness, in order to prevent local mischief, as affections of the lungs, brain, skin, and intestines, to which such subjects are very liable. The tar or pitch, both of which are certainly powerful correctors of the erysipelatous habit, may be given in conjunction with an aperient, as the following composition:—Take of the purified pitch (Stockholm), ^ drachm ; alkaline extract of jalap, 1 drachm. Mix well together, and divide into twenty pills, one, two, or three of which may be taken every night or morning, with a tea-cupful of the decoction of marsh- mallow root, so as to produce one copious alviiie evacuation daily. The subcarbonate of ammonia, with the Peru- vian bark in the following proportions, has also manifested something like a specific corrector of this habit:— Tonic draught for the erysipelatous. Take of subcarbonate of ammonia from 2 to 4 scruples; infusion of Peruvian bark, 8 ozs.: mix. The dose of this mixture is from two to three table- spoonsful three times a day. During the use of this mixture it is a common practice to administer 4 grains of blue pill, with 2 grains of the precipitated sulphuret of antimony, every night at bedtime for about one week. The bowels should be kept in a regular state by the pills of alkaline extract of jalap and pitch. The late Thomas Cam, Esq., of Hereford, was partial to a solution of the oxymuriate of mer- cury in antimonial wine in cases of chronic ery- sipelatous affections, or for correcting the ery- sipelatous habit, in the following proportions:— Take of oxymuriate of mercury 6 grains; anti- monial wine, 1 oz.: mix. The dose of this composition is from 15 to 20 drops, in a wine glassful of the decoction of the inner rind of elm bark, or a decoction of marsh-mallow root. When the edges of the eyelids are inflamed (a complaint to which erysipelatous subjects are very liable), a little of the following ointment introduced into the inner corners of the eyes, and rubbed over the eyelashes at bedtime, gene- rally succeeds in curing it in a few days. Ointment for inflamed and tender eyelids. Take of spermaceti ointment \ oz.; prepared calomel, ^ drachm; flowers of zinc, 5 grains. Mix. ESCALOPS, or Collops. Small, round,