BAR [ 65 ] BAR fire, stirring them constantly; when warm pass them through a sieve into a pan ; add to the liquor clarified sugar; if too thick put a little water, but no lemon-juice, as the barberries are sufficiently acid without; then put it into the freezing apparatus to congeal. BARBERRY ICE-CREAM. Put 1 large spoonful of barberry jam into 1 pint of cream ; add the juice of 1 lemon and a little cochineal; stir it well, and finish as directed. See Ice. BARBERRY ICE-WATER. Put 1 spoon- ful of barberry jam into a basin ; squeeze thereto 1 lemon, and add 1 pint of water, with a little cochineal in it; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it till it becomes thick enough for the moulds. Raspberry and strawberry ices are done the same way. BARBERRY JAM. Pick the barberries clean, bake them in an earthen pan, and, when done, pass them through a sieve with a wooden spoon; add to them their equal weight of pounded sugar. Mix the whole, and put it into pots covered with sifted sugar, the papers dipped in brandy. BARBERRY PICKLE. Boil some of the worst and single berries in salt and water ; strain oS the juice ; add to every gill 1 quart of water, with 1 oz. of salt, ^ lb. of lump sugar, ^ oz. of powdered and sifted ginger, and some horse- radish, sliced. In the meantime put bunches of the finest barberries into a jar, and pour the above pickle over them boiling hot. When cold, add a little bruised cochineal, and cover the whole close. Currants may be pickled in the same way, adding to them cinnamon and a few cloves. BARCLAY'S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS are made of extract of colocynth, 2 drachms; extract of jalap, 1 drachm; almond soap, 1^ drachm ; gum guaiacum, 1) drachms; tartarised antimony, 8 grains ; essential oils of juniper, caraway, and rosemary, of each 4 drops ; syrup of biickthorn enough to make the whole of a consistency suitable for forming into pills. Two are a dose. BARDER is to tie thin slices of bacon on the breast and back of poultry whilst roasting. BAREGES WATERS. The village of Bareges, distinguished for its warm springs, stands in a wild and romantic part of the Pyrenees, between the Mediterranean and the Bay of Biscay. It is composed of two small hamlets, the principal of which, the lower Bareges, contains the baths and lodgings for the accommodation of visitants. The reputation of these waters has for years been established. " Julius Caesar," says Sir Arthur Clarke, "and the Roman general Ser- torius bathed in them to restore energy to their rigid limbs after their campaign in Gaul and Spain. Henry IV., of France, frequented them in his youth, and Louis XVI. dignified them with an hospital for his wounded ofiicers and another for his soldiers, who, when past all other means of cure, were, from the remotest parts of France, sent to Bareges as a last resource." These hot springs are four in number, le Grand Bain (the Great Bath), le Petit Bain (the Little Bath), le Bain Neuf (the New Bath), and les Bains de Delices (the Baths of Delight), and are inclosed in a vaulted stone building erected by Louis XVIII., of France. They contain the same ingredients, but differ in temperature and in the proportion of sulphur; the hottest being the most strongly impreg- nated with this active substance, which they all, however, lose by contact with the air, and by cooling. Their respective degrees of heat, according to Fahrenheit's thermometer, are the following :— Degrees of heat. That of the hottest bath, named Grand Bain, is at . . . . That of the Petit Bain . . . . 110 That of the Bain Neuf . . . 109i That of the temperate baths, called the Bains de Dehces 94i They are extremely light and transparent, impart the taste and smell of liver of sulphur, and emit a quantity of smoke or vapour, which is more or less visible, according to tbe changes of heat or cold in the atmosphere. The coolest are used chiefly for bathing, and the hottest for drinking and topical applications. Chemical analysis shows that they are com- posed of sulphuretted hydrogen united to soda, of an excess besides of this alkali, of a little common salt, of carbonate of lime and alumine, and of a small quantity of a bituminous sub- stance of a peculiar nature, combined with a part of the soda, and thus forming a kind of soap. From the innumerable instances re- corded of their power in the cure of diseases, they appear to possess alterative and detergent properties. "They have been employed with wonderful success in all gun-shot wounds, in those attended with loss of substance, or with the complication of caries and extraneous bodies; in contusions, in fistulas, schirrhuses, and every sort of ulcer requiring digestion and suppuration ; in mus- cular contractions, in rigid and palsied limbs, in chronic rheumatism, in certain states of gout, in diseases of the stomach marked by acidity, flatulency, and heartburn ; in obstinate colics ; in debilities brought on by intemperance or the abuse of mercury; in jaundice, gravel, and other affections of the urinary organs; and above all, in leprosy, in the dry red scurvy eruptions, commonly called scorbutic, which affect principally the bands, arms, and legs, ia