C 143 3 BOU BOU pretty, or otherwise suitable, they are deprived of all plea of exemption from active service on account of defective limbs, and when duly ccjuipped they make as good an appearance and last as long as their more robust comrades. The Spanish rushes at Paris are called joncs d'Espagne. The stalks of Spartium junceum, or of the common broom, might be substituted with partial success; some fine varieties of osier might also furnish suitable twigs. None of these, however, can be so good as the rushes used by the Parisian flower-girls. In winter, when flowers are scarce, the art of tying or preparing them in the manner noticed makes a great saving in the materials, for a panicle or a spike may be thus made to yield nearly a dozen distinct flowers; and in many aggregate flowers, the lower blossoms, being first expanded, may be taken off without serious detriment to the upper parts. Several blossoms may also be tied together to form one flower, either in a round, flat, or elongated form. There are many rare and singular flowers, too, which it is impossible to gather with stalks more than an inch long, and when it is desired to make use of these in a bouquet the tying process solves all difficulties. The Parisian flower-girl's success in bouquet making is owing, in a great measure, to the pains which she takes in the preparation of her materials; she is always trimming or forming her single flowers, and arranging them according to their various colours; for colour is her principal study. The moss used, a species of polytrichum, is plentiful enough in woods and hedge-rows ; but this is most commonly employed with flowers having but little stalk, and moistened with water to keep them fresh ; but common heath, box- wood, thyme, myosotis, or, indeed, anything else in the same way may be used; for the object is not merely to keep the flowers fresh, or protect them from the pressure of the string, but also to set off the particular colour of the flower, which may be thus likened to a precious stone set in gold, or a sparkling idea clothed iu eloquent words. Next to the mo3S, which prevails during the winter months, the forget-me-not, and common speedwell, are very popular. But the clever bouquet maker is not confined to a particular colour for the purpose of adding to the effect of the others which are to form the principal dis- play, though green and blue, for obvious reasons, are most frequently selected for the purpose. Even parsley and carrot leaves are used with considerable advantage. Anything that will produce the effect wanted can never be too vulgar; and it must be recollected that these auxiliaries are always subordinate to the more striking colours. Sometimes, indeed, this pria- ciple is apparently revereed, and roses, dahlias, asters, tulips, ranunculi, or African marigolds, are surrounded with bright scarlet verbenas, rich crimson violets, yellow crocuses, blue gen- tian, or other small flowers having good decided colours. Tlie Gentiana acaulis, owing to its short stalk, is never seen in English bouquets, but in the hands of the Parisian flower-girls it makes a striking circle round a large flower, and it is also sometimes used as a centre. In the latter case, several flowers are tied in a cluster to one of the rushes, and the warm, rich blue colour may be softened by a circle of myosotis. The practice of inclosing the larger flowers in circles of smaller ones, in the manner noticed, is chiefly applicable to what may be called the circular style of bouquet; because in that style all or nearly all the principal flowers are thus inclosed by a circle of smaller flowers before they are used. The general out- line of a bouquet formed according to this arrangement is somewhat flat; at least, there are no spikes or panicles rising above the other flowers, as in the mixed style, or the bouquet aa naturel. This bouquet is, in short, composed of circles, the centres of which are formed by larger flowers, all agreeing with one another in colour and position, and while it is particularly suitable for flowers with short stalks it aff'ords much scope for the display of taste and skill in dis- tributing the colours, and iu placing the circles so as not to break one another. Modern horti- culture condemns the practice of crowding plants together in a conservatory in order to have a complete collection ; and the practice of putting a bit of everything in a bouquet is equally open to criticism : unless, indeed, the object is to fill a large vase, or scent a saloon, a bouquet should be confined within certain limits. In any case there must be no packing or pressing the flowers together with any of the French models. Flowers, to be sure, are beautiful under all cir- cumstances ; but when bundled together in a heap, requiring to be held with one's two hands, they become inconvenient, and really do not produce so much pleasure as when well selected and neatly arranged on a more moderate scale. The charm of a French bouquet is its light- ness and the tasteful arrangement of the colours. Comparatively few flowers are used, but they are well-chosen and neatly put together. The combinations of flowers in the formation of bouquets are endless, and vary, of course, with the seasons. In winter and early spring the most recherche of all, perhaps, are the Nea- politan violets, with which small hand bouquets are made, and sold at a sous each, in almost every thoroughfare. These little bouquets de- serve a passing notice, for, besides their fra- grance, they present something unusually neat