CAR CAR [ S38 3 an egg more, pound it again, and rub it through the sieve a quenelles, and fill up the cavities in fillets of carp, giving it the shape of a fish. Take care, however, to give it a good shape. Next let it be done thoroughly in the oven, and serve it with caper sauce under it. CARP, FRIED. Lay the fish, after wash- ing it, to dry, then flour and fry it of a light brown. Do the same with crusts of bread and the roe. On taking out the fish set it to drain, and prepare the anchovy sauce, with lemon- juice. Garnish with bread, the roe, and slices of lemon. CARP PIE. Scrape olf the scales, and gut and wash a large carp clean. Boil an eel till almost tender; pick off all the meat and mince it fine with an equal quantity of bread-crnmbs, a few sweet herbs, lemon-peel cut fine, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg ; an anchovy, I" pint of oysters parboiled and chopped fine, and the yolks of 3 hard eggs cut small. Roll it up with \ lb. of butter, and fill the belly of the carp. Make a good crust to cover the dish, and lay in the fish. Save the liquor of the eels; put into it the eel bones, and boil them with a little mace, whole pepper, an onion, some sweet herbs, and an anchovy, till reduced to ^ pint; then strain it, add to it \ pint of white wine and a piece of butter about the size of a hen's egg, mixed up with a very little flour. Boil it lip, and pour it into the pie ; then put on the lid and bake it an hour in a quick oven. CARP, RAGOUT OF. Draw and scale your carp; then broil it with stuffing over it; cut it in pieces. Put it into n, stewpan with some butter, parsley, scallions, mushrooms, all cliopped up, a pint of white wine, some salt and pepper. When it is sufficiently stewed serve it with a thick sauce. CARP, ROASTED. Stuff a carp with a farce made of butter, bread-crumbs, fine spices, capei's, anchovies, parsley, and gi'een shallots, all finely chopped; lard it with fillets of fresh anchovies, first soaked to take out the salt; tie- it to a skewer, and then fix it to the spit. Cover it over with two or three doubles of paper well buttered, and baste it with white wine, boiled with some butter, two laurel leaves, and a clove of garlic. Serve with what sauce or ragout you think proper. CARP ROES (in Aspic). Prepare an aspic as directed for Cockscombs in Aspic, and fill it with carp roes boiled and well seasoned. CARP ROES (Dutch fashion). Boil a dozen small white onions scalded in ^ pint of wliite wine, a faggot of sweet herbs, a good bit of butter, pepper, and salt. When three parts done put scalded cai'p roes into it, and finish the boiling. They require no longer than time enough to finish the onions very tender. Re- duce the sauce pretty thick; put the roes into the middle of the dish, and the onions round. Mix a little spinach juice with the sauce to give it a pale colour, or a strong green if you think proper. Serve the sauce upon the onions only, or in the bottom of the dish, and the rest upon it. Garnish it round with fried bread. Carp roes are also dressed as a chicken fricassee, with mushrooms, a little chopped parsley, and white liaison sauce. CARP ROES (English fashion). Boil some roes about a quarter of an hour in some good jelly broth, seasoned with pepper and salt. When ready to serve add a bit of butter rolled in flour; simmer it a moment without boiling; add a lemon, squeeze, and let the sauce be of a middling consistence, neither very thick, nor clear and thin. CARP ROES (Fricasseed). Put into a stewpan in a little butter a dozen small mush- rooms, a slice of ham, the squeeze of a lemon, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Stew it a little time on a slow fu-e, then add a little flour, and as many cai-p roes as you think proper, with a little good broth. Stew them a quarter of an hour, and season them with pepper and salt when you put in the broth. When all is ready thicken it with the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs, some cream, and a little chopped parsley. CARP ROES (Fried). Scald them as usual. When they are well drained marinade about an hour with lemon-juice and a little salt. Drain, and flour them to fry in a very hot fiiture to give them a good brown colour. Drain upon a sieve or with a cloth. Squeeze an orange over, and garnish with fried parsley. CARP ROES A LA BELLEVUE. Scald the roes in warm water, and prepare a stewpan with thin slices of bacon and a slice of ham; add to this a scalded sweetbread, a faggot of sweet herbs, onions cut into hoops pretty thick, a glass of white wine, whole pepper, and a little salt, or none, if the ham is not very fresh. When the sweetbread is almost braised enough put the roes to it, a little broth, and about two dozen crayfish tails picked. Simmer to- gether about a quarter of an hour; then put the sweetbread into the middle of the dish with 2 or 3 of the onion rings upon it, which you baste with white of eggs, to make them stick the better. Fill them with crayfish spawn boiled a moment in good cuUis, and the roes and cray- fish tails round separately. Add some good rich cullis to the sauce, make it pretty thick, strain it in a sieve, and pour it upon the roes only. CARP ROES, CAISSES OF. Blanch thirty well-washed carp roes; drain them ; put into a Btewpan a piece of butter, some champignons, parsley, shallots, all chopped fine, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spice. Do these lightly