[ 275 ] CHE CHE slices of bread, and lay cheese, butter, and bread alternately until you have enough, taking care to finish with the cheese and butter; moisten these with layers of stock, and let them simmer until it is burnt to the bottom, and the liquor is evaporated. When about to send it to table add more stock, with a little pepper, and let the pottage be rather thick than otherwise. CHEESE SOUP (Maigre). If you wish to make it en maigre prepare some soup maigre, taking care that there is a larger proportion of cabbage in your soup than of any other vege- table. When it is made and strained through a sieve season it with a little salt. Take the dish in which you mean to serve it, and place it be- fore the fire; then take ^Ib. or fib. (according to the quantity of soup you intend making) of Gruyere cheese, grate one half of it, and cut the other half into small slices ; put a little grated cheese with some small pieces of butter in the bottom of your dish, cover it with some small slices of bread ; then put a layer of sliced cheese, then a layer of sliced bread covered with grated cheese; then bread and small pieces of butter, and so continue till your dish is filled. Moisten the whole with some of your soup, then let it soak over a chafing-dish until all the soup is absorbed; then dilute it with the rest of your soup, and season with pepper. This cheese soup should be served rather thick. CHEESE, STEWED. Cut small into a stewpan Cheshire and Gloucester cheese, \ lb. of each; then add 1 gill of Lisbon wine, 1 table- spoonful of water, and, if approved, 1 tea spoon- ful of mustard. Mix them over a fire till the cheese is dissolved; then have ready a cheese plate, with a lighted lamp beneath; put the mix- ture in, and serve up directly. Send it with some fresh-toasted bread in a toast-rack. CHEESE STEWED IN CREAM (Scotch). Put some cream, mace, salt, and a piece of nice fresh butter into a silver chafing-dish. Grate or slice the cheese very thin into it. Set it on a hot table or lamp ; the heat ought to be very moderate. Stir it constantly till it is well in- corporated, and serve it over a lamp. If made tViin with the cream, prepared macaroni may be added, which makes an elegant top dish for a family dinner, second course, or for a side centre at a dressed dinner. CHEESE, STILTON. The best season for making this rich cheese is from July to October. Add the cream of the preceding evening to the morning's milking, and mix them well together, great attention being paid to the even tempera- ture of both, as the quality of the cheese rests much upon this part of the process. To make it in perfection as much depends on the manage- ment of the cheese after it is made as upon the richness of the milk. The rennet should be very pure and sweet. When the milk is coagulated do not break the curd, as in making other cheese, but take it out whole, drain it on a sieve, and press it very moderately. Then put the curd into a shape of the form of a cylinder (ten and a half inches deep, and eight inches over), and turn it four or five times a day into clean cloths. When it is sufficiently firm bind a cloth or tape round it to prevent its breaking, and set it on a shelf. It should be occasionally powdered with flour, and plunged into hot water. This hardens the outer coat, and assists the fermentation or ripening. CHEESE AND TOAST. Cut a slice of bread about half an inch thick. Pare off the crust, and toast it very slightly on one side so as just to brown it, without making it hard or burning it. Cut a slice of cheese (good, fat, mellow Cheshire cheese or double Gloucester is better than poor, thin, single Gloucester), a quarter of an inch thick, not so big as the bread by half an inch on each side; pare off the rind, cut out all the specks and rotten parts, and lay it on the toasted bread in a cheese-toaster. Care- fully watch it that it does not burn, and stir it with a spoon to prevent a pellicle forming on the surface. Have ready good mustard, pepper, and salt. CHEESE, TOASTED, or English Rarebit. Cut a slice of bread, toast it, soak it in red wine, and put it before the fire. Cut some cheese in very thin slices, and rub some butter over the bottom of a plate. Lay the cheese upon it, and pour in two or three spoonsful of white wine and a little mustard; cover it with another plate, and set it on a chafing-dish of coals two or three minutes, then stir it till it is well mixed. When it is mixed enough lay it upon the bread, and brown it with a salamander. CHEESE, TOASTED, or Scotch Rarebit. Cut the bread very nicely, crust and brown, but do not harden it; cut the cheese rather more than half the thickness of the bread. Put it into the cheese-toaster, rubbed with butter, with boiling water under. Stir the cheese to prevent its burning. There are silver and white cheese- toasters, filled with small pans for dividing the cheese. CHEESE, TOASTED, or Welsh Rarebit. Take a slice of bread and toast it on both sides ; toast a slice of cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, and with a hot salamander brown it, and rub some mustard over it. CHEESE, TOASTED (with Onions). Peel some onions, cut them in two, and boil them a little, changing the water once; then chop them and put them in the oven, with a little pepper, salt, and butter; cover them, and let them stew till tender. When sufficiently done spread them on a dish, and cover them well