[ 508 ] GOO GOO fowl, aticl season them very well; put forcemeat into the fowl, and then put the fowl into the goose. Put these into a raised crust, and fill the corners with a little forcemeat; cut i lb. of butter into pieces, lay them on the top, put on the cover, and bake the pie well. Serve cold. GOOSE EN KAGObT. Break tlie breast bone of the goose, and make it quite flat. When it is skinned dip it in boiling water; season it with pepper, salt, and a little mace beaten to powder ; lard and flour it all over. Take nearly 1 lb. of beef suet, put it into a stewpan, and when melted and boiling hot put in the goose. When it is brown all over add to it a quart of beef gravy boiling hot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, a few cloves, some whole pepper, a few small onions, and a bay leaf; cover it closely, and let it stew gently. If it is a small goose an hour will be sufficient; if a large one it will take half an hour more. Make a ragout for it as follows ;^Cut some turnips, onions, and carrots as for a haricot of mutton, all boiled enough, and add half a pint of rich beef gravy; put them all into a stewpan, with some pepper, salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, and let them stew gently a quarter of an hour. Take the goose out of the stewpan when done, drain it well from the liquor it was stewed in, put it into a dish, and serve the ragout over it, GOOSE, ROASTED. A stubble goose should be stuffed with sage and onions chopped small, and mixed with pepper and salt. Boil the sage and onions in a little water before they are chopped, or mix a few bread crumbs with them when chopped: either will render them less strong, put it first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer, A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising take off the paper, and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, as it will be spoiled by coming to table flattened. Serve it with good gravy and apple sauce in boats. It will take about an hour and a half to roast. GOOSE, SAUCE FOR, Mix a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a small tea-spoonful of salt, and a very little Cayenne pepper in a wine- glassful of claret or port wine ; pour it into the goose by a slit in the apron immediately before serving it up; or it may be j>ut with some thick melted butter or thick gravy into a boat, GOOSE, SAUCE FOR GREEN. To a quarter of a pint of sorrel juice add a glass of white wine, some scalded gooseberries, a little powdered sugar, and a small piece of butter'. Boil the whole together. GOOSE, SMOKED. Take a large stubble goose, remove all the fat, dry it thoroughly inside and out with a cloth, wash it all over with vinegar, and then rub it over with some common salt, saltpetre, and J lb. of coarse sugar. Rub the salt well in, and let it lie a fortnight; then drain it well, sew it up in a cloth, and hang it in the chimney to dry. It should hang for a month. GOOSE, STUFFING FOR. Chop about 2 ozs. of onion very finely, 1 oz. of green sage leaves, 4 ozs. of bread crumbs, the yolk and white of a boiled egg, and a little pepper, to which may be added a minced apple. GOOSEBERRIES: To Bottle. When little more than half grown they must be gathered dry, and after being picked clean put into wide-mouthed bottles, shaking them gently down till each bottle is full. Cork the bottles tightly, set them in a moderate oven, and let them remain till heated through. Beat the .corks in tightly, cut off the tops, resin them over, and keep them in a dry, cool place. GOOSEBERRIES : To Preserve. Take the largest sort, and scald them without boiling; put them into a tub, and let them stand three days ; then having drained them, put them into a pan with water and a little syrup, and set them on the fire till warm; the next day strain off the liquor, put the fruit into an earthen pan, and pour thin syrup over it boiling hot. Repeat this daily for a week, thicken the syrup by degrees, and put the gooseberries into pots. GOOSEBERRY CHAMPAGNE. Take large fine gooseberries that are full grown, but not yet beginning to turn red, and pick ofl:' their tops and tails; then weigh the fruit, and allow a gallon of clear soft water to every 3 lbs. of gooseberries. Put them into a large clean tub, pour on a little of the water, pound and mash them thoroughly with a wooden beetle, add the remainder of the water, and give the whole a hard stirring. Cover the tub with a cloth, and let it stand four days, stirring it frequently and thoroughly to the bottom; then strain the liquid through a coarse linen cloth into another vessel, to each gallon of liquid add 4 lbs. of fine loaf sugar, and to every five gallons a quart of the best and clearest French brandy. Mix the whole well together, and put it into a clean cask that will just hold it, as it should be quite filled. Place the cask on its side in a cool, dry part of the cellar, and lay the bung loosely on the top. Secure the cask firmly in its place, so that it cannot by any chance be shaken or moved, as the least disturbance will injure the wine. Let it work for a fortnight or more, till the fermentation is quite over, and the hissing has ceased; then bottle it, driving in the corks tightly. Lay the bottles on their sides. In six months it will be fit for drinking, and it will be found as brisk as real champagne.