FON t 515 ] FOO isnture. Warm fomentations to the feet, sharpened with the addition of mustard or muriatic acid (the latter in the proportion of two table-spoonsful to a pint of water), are not unfrequently ordered for the relief of pains in the head, hut in such cases it is always more convenient to use the foot bath. Camomile Fomentation. Camomile flowers, i oz.; seeds of sweet fennel, 2 drachms; dis- tilled water, 1 pint. Boil for ten minutes, and strain. To promote suppuration. Hemlock Fomentation. Buil | lb of the fresh leaves of hemlock, or 3 ozs. of the dried herb, in a quart of water for half an hour, and strain. Used for tumours, &c. Poppi Fomentation. Tlie capsules and seeds of poppy heads. 2 ozs.; distilled water, 3 pints. Cut the capsule of the poppy into three slices; bruise these and the seeds ; after- wards boil in the water to 1 pint, and strain. To allav pain. FONDUS, ENGLISH... Beat 4 ozs. of Par- tnesan cheese to a paste, add a piece of butter, mix well, and stir in the yolks of six eggs sni a gill of cream. When well mixed add the whites, with 4 ozs. of sifted flour, at the moment of putting it into the oven in a very deep dish of silver or block tin, to give it room to rise. Stir it for a few minutes after it is put into the oven. FONDUS, FRENCH. Put some grated Parmesan cheese in a basin, with pepper, a little melted butter, and the yolks of eggs; stir them together; whip the whites a little at a time with the cheese, stirring lightly with a wooden spoon ; half fill as many paper cases as you can, and bake them like biscuits in a moderate oven. Serve them as quickly as possible after they are done. FOOD. See Aliment, Animal Food, Diet, and Vegetable Food. FOOTMAN. Mrs. Parkes, in her excellent work on " Domestic Duties," says that those of a footman must necessarily vary according to the size and rank in society of the family into which the individual enters. In small families, where only one is kept, his morning employ- ments commence with the rougher part of the work of his department, such as cleaning knives, forks, and shoes, brushing clothes, and assisting the housemaid to rub the mahogany or other polished furniture in the libraries and the dining and drawing-rooms. He has then to prepare for the breakfast hour by washing and cleaning himself, laying the cloth, and placing everything in readiness on the breakfast table, seeing that the water is on the fire in proper time, tbat no delay may arise on his part when the family assemble in the breakfast-room. To keep the plate in good order, to wash the china and glass well, making the latter as bright and clear as possible; ta wash and wipe clean the handles of knives an(? forks ; to fold up and put away from the dust the breakfast-cloth which is in use, are the employments that generally occupy the morning hours of the footman, while he holds himself in readiness to answer bells and to open the hall door. Waiting well at table is also an important part of his employment. He should be in the daily habit of laying the dinner cloth neatly and in good time, placing for each person a knife, fork, spoon, plate, and napkin; a tumbler, a wine-glass, and a chair. When there is soup a soup plate should be placed upon the other plate; but this, of course, must not be put on the table until the dinner is about to be served, or it will be cold. When the dinner is on the table he should announce it to the family, and place himself in readiness by the sideboard until they have seated themselves. Then he should be all attention, active, but quiet, be ready to hand every plate in turn, and to change it as soon as required. Bread, wine, or water, when handed round, should be presented with the left hand, and upon the left side of the person served, and everything should be handed on a waiter. He should be careful never to reach across a table, nor to put his hand or arm before any one. He should tread lightly, make as little noise as he can whilst changing plates or other things, and not speak too loud whea answering a question. Between the courses the crumbs should be cleared away, either by a napkin or a brush, into a clean plate. After dinner is over, and the table cleared of everything upon it, the table-cloth must be lightly thrown together, and carried off until a convenient opportunity occurs for shaking the crumbs out of it and folding it up. This should be done as soon as possible, lest the cloth acquires a rumpled and untidy appearance. When the task of cleaning the knives and forks is part of the business of the footman he should, as soon as possible after they have been used, put them into warm water {hot water will unsolder the blades from the handles), and wipe them dry; they will then remain without injury in the proper tray till the usual time of cleaning them. The pantry, which contains the glass, china, and all the various articles belonging to the footman's province, should be properly furnished for him with shelves, hooks, drawers lined with green baize for the plate, and small wooden tubs or bowls for washing glass and china. He should have two large pieces of leather for hia plate, and two smaller for the candlesticks and