BLO BLO [ 128 ] tliis, better than any other material, keeps it from becoming yellow. If it becomes creased and tumbled whilst attached to any article of dress, breathe upon it or hold it in gentle steam issu- ing from the spout of a teakettle, and then shake it. This does not turn it yellow as iron- ing is apt to do. The blond need not be taken off from the dress to do this. When blond requires cleaning do not take the blond off from the quilling; fold it smoothly in four lengths, and, if scalloped, let the scallops rest e.xactly over each other. Tack the lengths together, beginning along the scalloped edge. Wet it ■with very clean cold, soft water; soap it well •with common soap, either yellow or white. Do not rub hard, and lather lightly. Use two or three waters and latherings if the lace be very dirty. Finally, rinse in soft cold water, and, after all the soap is rinsed out, dip the lace into a quart of highly-blued water, in which about a tea-spoonful of made-starch has been mixed. Squeeze the lace, and place it between the folds of a cloth. When moderately dried take out the tacking-threads, unfold it, and iron across the lace, from the quilling to the scallops or edging. Take off the quilling, and then iron the blond or lace lengthwise. Do not strain it, but roll it loosely on a card until wanted. White gauze ribbon may be cleaned by the same process. BLOOD LETTING, or Bleeding. No operation of surgery is so frequently necessary as bleeding ; it ought therefore to be very gene- rally understood. Bleeding is proper at the beginning of all inflammatory fevers, as pleu- risies, pneumonites, &c. It is likewise proper In all topical inflammations, as those of the intestines, womb, bladder, stomach, kidneys, throat, eyes, &c., as also in asthma in certain cases, headaches, acute rheumatism, apoplexy, epilepsy, and bloody flux under certain states. Alter falls, blows, bruises, or any violent hurt received either externally or internally, bleeding is necessary. But in all disorders proceeding from relaxation of the solids, and an impoverished state of the blood, as dropsies, cacochymies, &c., bleeding is improper. Bleeding for topical inflammations ought al- ways to be performed as near the part affected as possible. When this can be done with a, lancet it is to be preferred to any other method ; hut where a vein cannot be found, recourse must lie had to leeches or cupping. The quantity of blood to be taken away must always be regulated by tne strength, age, consti- tution, manner of life, and other circumstances relating to the patient. It would be ridiculous to suppose that a child could bear to lose as much blood as a grown person, or that a deli- cate lady should be bled to the same extent as a robust man. The mode of bleeding most frequently prac- tised is that of opening a vein, and it may be done in the arm, ancle, jugular vein, frontal vein, veins under the tongue, and on the back of the hand, &c. In whatever part, however, venesection is performed, a bandage must be applied between that part and the heart. As it is often necessaiy, in order to raise the vein, to make the bandage pretty tight, it will be proper in such cases, as soon as the blood besnns to flow, to slacken it a little. The bandage ought to be applied at least an inch or an inch and a half from the place where the puncture is in- tended to be made. Thus, the return of the blood through the vein is stopped, the vein swells, becomes conspicuous, and, when opened, bleeds much more freely than would otherwise happen. Persons not skilled in anatomy ought never to bleed with the lancet. The operation is per- formed by making the wound in an oblique direction, neither longitudinally along the vein, nor directly across it. After the person exe- cuting it has placed his thumb an inch and a half below the bandage, he is to pass the point of the lancet gradually forward into the side of the vein. As soon as he is sensible, from want of resistance, that he has got within it, the incision should be made obliquely forward. The instrument is immediately to be withdrawn. Wlien the quantity of blood wished for is extracted, the bandage must be slackened. The edges of the orifice ought to be cleared from particles of blood that may chance to adhere to them. They are then to be put together in the closest manner, and retained by a bit of ad- hesive plaster or a bandage until the wound is healed. Bleeding over an artery or tendon should be avoided. The former may be distinguished by its beating, the latter by its likeness to a chord. The arm is generally the part where the opera- tion is best performed. Any quantity of blood drawn below 12ozs. is considered as a small bleeding. It may be deemed copious should the discharge exceed 20 ozs. Some attention to the blood when drawn will occasionally direct as to the propriety of repeat- ing the bleeding. If the coagulable lymph be superabundant, there will arise on the surface a thick buffy coat. The blood will also be con- siderably cupped. This appearance, showing active powers of coagulation, indicates strength in the solid. If the constitution is weak, the blood lies flat in the dish or receptacle. It possesses also less tenacity. It was formerly a rule, even among those who had the character of being regular practitioners, to bleed then* patients in certain diseases till they fainted Surely a more ridiculous rule