FEA C 487 ] FEA feathei" beds, yet we are convinced that they ai-e not so healthful to repose upon as mat- tresses. There is no practice more detrimental to the powers and energy of man in the first period of his life than that of immediately sink- ing the tender infant in a soft feather bed. In this situation all the organs become extremely relaxed, and we lay the foundation of a very serious malady, a sweating skin, the soiirce of constant colds, toothaches, headaches, catarrhs, and innumerable other complaints. For these and similar reasons we would advise parents to lay their children from the very hour of their birth on soft and cooling mattresses, under thin blankets or cotton quilts, which do not incommode the body, leave the hands and arms at liberty, and are not liable to excite too great a degree of heat. In the intense cold of winter an additional blanket may be used, which, however, should be removed when the weather becomes milder, and the child grows stronger. But the greatest mischief arises from bolsters or pillows filled with feathers, which must, after a certain time, produce uncleanliness and a dis- agreeable smell. Such a pillow is calculated to collect and retain mephitic vapours, and for this obvious reason it cannot but be unsafe to sleep for a whole twelvemonth with one's head reposed on such a mass of acrid exhalations. This in- convenience may be easily avoided by furnishing children with cushions filled with horsehair, or with the softest bran previously well beaten. The best for this purpose is the bran of oats. The great advantage of these pillows is that they admit moisture to pass through them, consequently they will always remain dry, and may from time to time be renewed, while they preserve a moderate and regular degree of warmth. FEATHERS : To Pkepare. Let two bags be made either of coarse cloth or calico, one to receive the goose and duck feathers, the other for chickens' feathers. Whenever any poultry is to be plucked let the pinion and other large feathers be separated from those of the body ; these latter are to be picked carefully, that no flesh or skin may adhere to the roots of them, and are to be put into the appropriate bag, after \\hicii the large ones are to be stripped from the quills and added to them. On the day following that on which the bread oven may have been used let the bag of feathers be placed in it to dry, and kept there, always excepting, of course, when the oven may be wanted. The bag is to be occasionally hung out in the air on a fine windy day, and beaten with a stick. As soon as there appears to be a sufiicient quantity of feathers for a pillow purchase some ticking, and, having had the case stitched round on the wrong side with double " whity brown " thread well waxed, lay it on a table, and having procured some common yellow bees wax (yellow soap will, however, be preferable), warm the wax, and rub it all over the ticking on the wrong side, in order to prevent the dust and down of the feathers from coming through the fabric. Wax is generally used for this purpose, but, as before observed, we prefer soap, because, in the event of the ticking being washed, the latter material would facilitate the operation; while the former not only stains the case, in consequence of the heat of the water, but pre- vents the soap from lathering. If neither pillows nor bolsters should be required the feathers can be put into a bed that may have become too empty. The goose and duck feathers should be reserved for the best beds, and the " cock and hen," as they are styled, are only fit for those that are inferior, because, being straight, and having no curl or elasticity like those of a duck, they do not rise when shaken, but lie heavy and in masses. It sometimes unfortunately happens that feathers while in the bag contract a taint and putrid scent: this proceeds from careless- ness in plucking the poultry, whereby small portions of the flesh or skin are torn off, and adhere to the roots of the quills. To remedy this unpleasant circumstance, and entirely re- store them to sweetness, let a copper of water be heated or, to save trouble, make use of the soap water in which the clothes of a family wash have been boiled, and while the copper is boiling dip the bag of feathers, tied tightly at the neck, into it; move them about with the clothes' stick to wash them thoroughly for about a minute ; then withdraw the bag, squeeze it against the side by means of the stick in order to express the greater part of the water, and hang the bag in the air, turning and shaking it several times in the course of a few days. When the feathers feel dry and light, and are free from scent, they may be returned again to the oven, and kept aired for use. Those of wild fowl are not available for bedding, owing to the saline particles prevent- ing them from drying. To remedy tliis it is customary to bake them; but the following process will be found more efiicient, and has also the eS'ect of cleansing them from their animal oil:—To eveiy gallon of water put 1 lb. of quicklime, and mix well together. When the lime is precipitated pour off the clear water, and reserve it for use. Put the feathers to be cleaned into a tub, pour on sufficient of the lime water to cover them, work them about, and let them lie immersed for three or four days; then raise them with a sieve, squeezing out the foul water. Wash the feathers in clean water, and dry them in nets, shaking them