[ 463 ] EGG EGG simmer for about a minute, and then serve it up. EGGS WITH PEAS. Boil some young peas in stock, and wben quite done break in some eggs, seasoning them with salt and pepper; put the whole into a braising pan, with a slow fire over and under, that they may be equally done. Serve with fried bread. EGGS, PICKLED. Boil the eggs hard, put them into cold water to preserve their colour, and when they are cold take off the shells without injuring the egg. A jar shoiild be chosen that will pack the eggs, that there may be no waste of room, which also makes a waste of vinegar; they may likewise be pickled in the shell. Season and boil good vinegar with pepper, mace, and salt, and strain it over the eggs; let it cool, and then have a bung fitted, which must be pressed lightly in with a cloth. Look at them in a week, and if they require the vinegar to be boiled do it for sea store or keeping, but for im- mediate use it is not necessary. The same vinegar will answer again and again. A cook will find a store of pickled eggs very useful both in first and second-course dishes, as well as ornamental. EGGS, POACHED. Have ready a sauce- pan of boiling water ; break in your eggs cave- fully, and let them boil for three or four minutes; then take them out with a slice, and serve them either upon toast, spinach, or whatever you please. EGGS, POACHED (with Marigolds). Blanch and mince the leaves of marigolds very finely ; for six yolks add a small clove of garlic, mace, pepper, salt, and two spoonsful of rich cream ; beat together ; put it into a flat dish ; let it come tenderly in a bain-marie ; brown it with a salamander; garnish it with pounded anchovies and a fringe of fried parsley. EGGS, PUFFED. Carefully separate the whites and yolks of eight eggs without breaking the yolks; froth up the whites ; cover one of the yolks carefully with a spoonful of the froth, and so continue till all the yolks are covered; then slide them gently off into a hot friture one after another. Serve \Yith a cullis sauce, made tolerably relishing or sharp with lemon juice. EGGS, RAGOtJTED, Boil twelve eggs hard, take off the shells, and with a little knife very carefully cut the whites across longways, so that they may be in halves, and the yolks whole. Be careful neither to break the whites nor yolks. Take a quarter of a pint of pickled mushrooms chopped very finely, and i oz. of truffles and morels boiled in three or four spoonsful of water; save the water, and chop the truffles and morels very small; boil a little pnrsley, chop it finely, mix them together with the trufile water you saved, and grate in a little nutmeg and beaten mace; put it into a saucepan, with three spoonsful of water, a gill of red wine, a spoonful of catsup, a piece of butter as big as a large walnut, rolled in flour; stir all together, and let it boil. In the mean- time get ready your eggs, lay the yolks and whites in order in your dish, the hollow parts of the whites uppermost, that they may be filled; take some crumbs of bread, and fry them till brown and crisp as you do for larks, with which fill up the whites of the eggs as high as they will lie ; then pour in your sauce all over, and garnish with fried crumbs of bread. This is a very genteel, pretty dish if it be well done. EGGS AND RICE. Wash very clean in warm water 3 ozs. of rice, boil it in a pint of new milk till soft, and pour it into small saucers about the size of an egg when poached, or a little larger; the next day turn them out of the saucers, and lay half of a preserved apricot oii each. They are equally good with any other kind of preserved fruit. Blanc-manger put in saucers in the same way has still more the ap- pearance of eggs. EGGS, SALMIS OP. Boil six bruised shallots in a glass of white wine for about six minutes; mix this liquid with pounded, roasted livers of hares, rabbits, or any other kind of game, to give it the taste; add the yolks of six eggs beaten up with a little gravy, and a spoonful or two of well-seasoned cullis ; strain it, and bake it au hain marie. EGGS WITH SAUSAGES. Fry some sausages, and after them a slice of bread; lay the sausages on it, with a poached egg between each link. If the toast is too strong fried butter it a little. EGGS, SCOTCH. Take five pullets'eggs, boil them hard, and, without removing the whites, cover completely with a fine relishing forcemeat, in which let scraped ham or chopped anchovy bear a due proportion. Fry them of a fine yellow brown, and serve with a good gravy in the dish^ EGGS IN SLICES. Take the yolks of a dozen hard-boiled eggs, and put them on a dish, with salt, pepper, and basil in powder ; cut the whites and five or six onions into slices, and put them into a saucepan, with half a glass of boiling oil. When about two-thirds done add a glass of gravy and half a glass of white wine; simmer for half an hour, pour it into the dish over your yolks, and lay the sliced whites on the top. EGGS WITH SPINACH. Scald a hand- ful of spinach in boiling water, and drain it fit to be pounded in a mortar; when well pounded pour in a pint of cream, making the cream of a fine pea-green; add a little salt, the yolks of six or eight eggs preserved, macaroni drops, and