[ S3 ] APP APP add, in tHis place, any other remark than that such an inclination for sensual enjoyment re- mains only so long as the operation of these exquisite stimulants continues. When the pa- pillary nerves of the palate can be no longer influenced by such excitement the sensualist loses his appetite, and is punished with all the concomitant symptoms of indigestion. 3. The habitual appetite, though partly ac- quired, is not liable to those serious objections which apply to the second species; nor is it attended with any other disadvantages than those arising from long fasting, or an undue allowance of food on particular occasions. Thus, after fatiguing exercise, when the fibres of the digestive organs are already weakened, and the circulation of the blood to those parts is unusu- ally increased, the nourishment then received can be digested only with great difficulty, and to the detriment of the body. Want of appetite may proceed either from a defective energy of the stomach, originating more frequently from an immoderate quantity than the improper quality of food; or it may be occasioned by the sympathy of other diseased parts, such as the liver, bowels, &c.; or by intestinal worms, obstructions of the mesentery, and many other causes. Hence it will be un- derstood that there can be no specific remedy suggested to remove the complaint; but that the treatment must be regulated by the nature of the case, and the constitution of the patient. In general, however, the following hints deserve attention. When the stomach loathes wholesome food, and is troubled with habitual flatulency, and eructations of a bitter, rancid, or saline taste, it should be previously ascertained whether an emetic be proper or necessary to evacuate its contents. Yet to determine this point requires a degree of skill and experience which few persons in common life possess. On the other hand, the administration of a simple emetic may be attended with serious conse- quences. For this reason we would previously recommend a change of air and diet; early rising in the morning; gentle exercise; absti- nence from all hot drinks, particularly tea, punch, and hot broths, fat or hard meat, spirituous liquors, tobacco, &c.; to avoid the influence of depressing passions, such as excessive grief, fear, and anxiety; and if this treatment, after having been rigorously pursued for several days or weeks, produces no change in the appetite, then to have recourse to gentle emetics, or, rather, to the operation of nauseating medicine. Ac- cording to our experience, the powder of ipecacu- anha, in the smallest doses of a quarter or sixth part of a grain, in a little cold water, repeated every ten minutes for two or three hours toge- ther, before breakfast, stands eminently reco3i- mended in disorders of this nature, ard liag seldom failed to be of service to phlegmatic or corpulent individuals when continued for several mornings. But if there appear to be great ful- ness of the stomach or bowels, attended with the symptoms before described, it will sometimes be necessary to give such an emetic as may, according to circumstances, at the same time relieve the bowels. A mixture of 2 parts of ipecacuanha wine and 1 part of antimouial wine, taken in single tea-spoonsful every quarter of an hour, without any farther drink till it begins to operate, generally produces the desired effect. After the stomach and bowels have by such or similar means been evacuated, it will be use- ful to strengthen the tone of the fibres by drink- ing small draughts of cold camomile tea, or an infusion of quassia, or simple toast and water, well prepared, which last may be justly con- sidered as one of the mildest and most grateful corroborants. An insatiable appetite may arise from too great a distension of the stomach in early infancy; from an over-abundant secretion of the gastric or digestive liquor; from drinking large quan- tities of stimulating acid beverage, such as cider, perry, buttermilk, &c., but especially from a bad habit of fast eating, without properly masticating hard substances. Hence the first maxim in diet should be to eat slowly, in order to prevent a sudden distension of the digestive organs, and to allow sufficient time for the food to be duly prepared, and gradually mixed with the gastric juice. See Digestion and Indioes TION. APPLE. Cooks, in choosing apples foi culinary purposes, should always be guided by the weight, the heaviest being always the best; and those are particularly to be taken, which, upon being pressed by the thumbs, yield with a slight cracking noise. Large apples, possessing these qualities, should be taken in preference to small ones, as there is less waste in peeling and coring. The following is a good selection of large kitchen apples, arranged in the order of their maturity:— Manx Codlin, called also Irish Pitcher and Irish Codlin; Hawtliornden ; Hollandbury Pip- pin, called also Kirke's Scarlet Admirable ; Wormsley Pippin; Blenheim Orange, called also Woodstock Pippin; Dutch Codlin; Beauty of Kent; Dumelow's Seedling, called also Wel- lington ; Yorkshire Greening, and Royal Russet. For very early use the Carlisle Codlin is the best, but it is not large; for very late use the London Pippin, the French Crab, and the Nor- folk Beefing, are valuable; the last is well known, as furnishing the dried apples which are called Beefings.