[ 257 ] CEM CHA Tseth). Sandarach, 1 drachm; mastic, drachm; amber, 4 grains; sulphuric ether, i drachm. Mix in a stoppered bottle, and make them dissolve by a very gentle heat. CEMENT, WATERPROOF (fob Damp Walls). Two quarts of tar, with the addition of 2 ozs. of kitchen grease, are boiled in an iron pot during a quarter of an hour. Meanwhile a quantity of slaked lime and finely-powdered glass are passed separately through a hair sieve, and then mixed in the proportion of two parts of lime to one part of glass. A sufficient quan- tity of the boiled tar is now added to this mix- ture to render it of the consistency of thin plaster. It must be observed that, when prepared for a wall, no more should be mixed at a time than will cover a square foot, because the cement hardens so speedily that it is soon too hard for use. The same caution must be observed when it is applied to unite marble, Portland stone, or any other fractured building material. Care must likewise be taken to exclude from the ce- ment the least wet or moisture, by which it would otherwise be spoiled. On a damp wall a coating of this cement is to be laid about an eighth of an inch in thickness; but if the wall be wet a second coating of the same thickness must be added, when no't a drop of moisture will pass through. The composition has the quality of being imperviable to wet or dampness of any kind. When it has acquired its extreme of hard- ness, which it does in about three weeks, a stucco of lime, hair, and plaster of Paris, may be put over it, or it may be covered and papered like any other wall. In damp kitcliens the cement may be spread upon the floor, if necessary ; in- deed, a floor may be formed of it, and it will prove an effectual preservative against damp or wet. CEPHALIC. See Asarabacca. CERATE is a fatty preparation used for applying to wounds. It is rather harder than an ointment, because it has more wax in its composition, but is softer than a plaster, which has still more. CERATE, GOULARD'S (a Cooling Ap- plication FOR Burns and other Inflamed Excoriations). Solution of superacetate of lead, IJoz.; wax, 2ozs.; olive oil, ^pint; camphor, J drachm. Melt the wax with half of the oil; take them off the fire ; add gradually the acetate of lead, stirring constantly until cool. Lastly, dissolve the camphor in the remaining oil and stir it in. CERATE, LIP, or Lip Salve, fob Dry OB Chapped Lips. Spermaceti, ioz.; white wax, 3 drachms ; oil of sweet almonds, 4 ozs.; alkanet root, f oz.; attar of roses, 15 drops. Tie the alkanet in a muslin bag ; melt the other ingredients together in an earthern pipkin ex- cept the attar; then put in the bag of aiianet, squeeze it until the cerate is sufficiently co- loured ; then remove, and when nearly cold stir in the attar. CERATE, RESIN, or Yellow Basilicon (fob Dressing Ulcers and Wounds). Yellow resin, 1 oz.; beeswax, 1 oz.; olive oil, I oz. Melt the resin and wax, then add the oil, and strain while very hot through a linen cloth before the fire. CERATE, SIMPLE (for Healing Chaps AND Softening the Skin). Olive oil, 1^ oz.; white wax, | oz.; spermaceti, i oz. CERATE, TURNER'S (for Ulcerations and other Wounds of the Skin). Prepared calamine (impure carbonate of zinc), | oz.; sim- ple cerate, 2i ozs. Mix them thoroughly. CHABLIS WINE. See Burgundy Wines. CHAIRS, like all other articles of furniture, vary so in fashion that we shall not enter upon this subject, but shall merely offer some relative, desultory remarks. Square seats are liable to many objections, when considered with respect to their influence on the health of the aged, infirm, and especially persons afflicted with the piles, or troubled with ascarides. For these a round or blunt triangular form of a chair, re- sembling the shape of a saddle, would be far preferable, and more conducive to the alleviation of their complaints. The reason is obvious, be- cause the thighs and legs, when compressed, occasion an additional irritation on a part which is already in a preternatural state of excitement, or, perhaps, subject to chronic inflammation, as is frequently the case in the hemorrhoids. Nor do we advise those patients to accustom themselves to rest upon very soft cushions or pillows, except such as are tightly stuffed with horsehair, dry mosses, or chaff. Hence we are of opinion that the studious, and all those who are engaged in sedentary employments, if they regard their health and convenience, should employ either round, wooden chairs, slightly concave, or such as we have before ventured to suggest. We always experience a feeling of satisfaction on entering rooms belonging to the olden time, where the quiet, comfortable-looking chairs and sofas seem to receive us with ease and hospi- tality, very different from the smart ostentation of the gay furniture of the present day. The old arm-chairs of the past century, once covered with damask or worsted work, instead of being replaced with the ornamented, light, expensive chairs of modern taste, if covered entirely with neat chintz, ai'e warm and comfortable both in appearance and reality; and being strongly and usefully made—as is the case with all old furniture—will last for years to come. If the covers are lined, made to fit well, and fixed by strings to the seat of the chairs, they wiU