C 377 3 CRO CRO pass the thread round the hook, take the next loop of the chain, and repeat as above. But for open crochet draw another loop through the one on the hook. Pass the thread round the hook, and take the second loop of the chain. Working with Two or more Colours in the same Row. In order to bring the stitches quite square, supposing a row is described as two white and two black alternately to the end, work one stitch white, pass the hook through the next loop" of the chain, and draw the wool through. You have now two loops. Draw the black through these two. You will now perceive that the two white stitches are finished. Work one white stitch, and repeat from the one white stitch. Carrying on the Thread. When two colours are employed in the same row lay the one you are not working with along the top of the chain, and work over it with the other; but when more than two colours are used it is best to cut off the material after having worked the pattern, and run in the ends with a needle. Keeping the Edges even. This is a most im- portant rule to be observed. At the beginning and end of a row of double crochet make one chain stitch, and in open crochet make three chain stitches. If these edge stitches are omitted the work intended to be square will be drawn aslant. Making the Chain. In most cases, as for a purse, a square bag, a sofa cushion, &c., it is necessary to work the chain very loose, or the end on which you begin will be drawn, and will not yield to the elasticity of the other parts. In working the polka or yachting jacket this is most essential, as it is united up the back, and unless the seam is elastic it cannot fit well. Fastening off. In working sofa pillows, shawls, &c., make the chain, and cut off the wool at the end, leaving about two inches. In working the next row, when you ai'rive within two inches of the end, lay this short piece along the edge of the chain, and work over it. Proceed in like manner every row. The Hook, or Crochet. In all coarse work, and even with silk when practicable, an ivory hook is the most desirable; it is so light in the hand, and becomes in use so glassy smooth, that it greatly facilitates the operation. But for fine purse silk or cotton a steel hook or a tambour needle in a screw handle can only be employed, as possessing greater strength than the former. The manufacture of them is also much im- proved by being made less sharp than formerly —they do not catch or split the material. CROCKERY. It is a good plan to prepare crockery and glass which will be used to hold hot water by boiling them, which is effected by putting the articles into a kettle of cold water over the fire, letting them just boil, then taking the kettle off, and allowing them to remain in the water till cold. CROLLERS. Take 1 lb. of flour, ^Ib. of the best moist sugar, and three eggs, to be mixed together after the first two have been rolled, and the latter beaten a few moments, and then rolled out as thin as possible in squares, scored with a knife about the width of a fingei", and fried in lard. CROQUE EN BOUCHES. These are large pieces of ornamental confectionary formed of various materials, as gimhlettes, croquignoles, Genoises, or of oranges cut into quarters, chest- nuts, gi'een nuts, &c., arranged within moulds according to fancy, and cemented together with boiled sugar. CROQUETTES OF BOILED MEAT. Mince some boiled meat very small, add to it some sausage meat, mashed potatoes, crumbs of bread soaked in milk, and sweet herbs; make them into a paste, and form it into little balls ; roll them in very fine raspings, and fry them of a nice colour. Serve them with sauce piquante. CROQUETTES A LA D'ESTREES. Use the best puff paste; roll it very thin, and cut it into different shapes as fancy leads ; bake them, and dress each piece upon a dish in a handsome manner; rub them with a little caramel to make them stick as you place them, then put some currant jelly all over the top, and make what flower or design you please, with nonpareils of different colours round it. CROQUETTES, FRENCH, or Crocats. Mince the white meat of a cold turkey or some nice veal very small; then take two boiled eggs (yolks and whites), with a little lean ham, and chop the whole very fine ; next take some bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg or mace. Mix all up with a raw egg and a spoonful of cream, working the whole into a sugar-loaf shape; glaze it with yolk of egg, and roll it in more crumbs ; fry it in boiling lard till it is brown; then lay it on a sieve to drain. For a sauce take a little brown soup, and reduce it by boil- ing ; then beat up the yolk of an egg with a spoonful of cream; add this to the soup, with some nutmeg, but do not let it boil after the egg is put in. Serve up the croquettes in the sauce, CROQUETTES A LA PARISIENNES. Take a stick of vanilla, pound it with 2 ozs. of sugar, and sift it through a silk sieve ; mix it with 7 ozs. of sugar well dried and pounded, and I lb. of sifted flour; then stir in the whites of 4 eggs whipped firmly, and work the whole together for some minutes. Heat two large baking plates of copper, and rub them ovei lightly with virgin wax ; when they are cold take a spoonful of the prepai'ation, and lay it on the plate the same as the spoon biscuits, taking care to lay them threei quarters of au inch apart.