GAM [ 541 ] GAM spices, yolks of eggs, and a little cream. If it Le too thin boil it for a quarter of an hour, keeping it constantly stirring to prevent it from burning. GAME FKITTERS. Take any of those parts of cold roasted game which can be cut into thin slices, dip them into good batter, and fry them in olive oil or lard. Sprinkle the fritters when done with- salt and spices pounded veiy finely. GAME, FUMET OF. This is a clear sauce, made in a similar manner to Essence of Game. When strained off' put it into a saucepan and let it boil, then set it by the side of the stove, and add to it half a glass of cold water to make the scum rise, which must be carefully removed; then reduce it to the consistence of syrup. This is used with dishes of game, breaded, broiled, &c. GAME, PETITS PATfiS OF. Make some petits pates with godiveau, and when baked take out the godiveau, and put in its place the fol- lowing prepai'ation :—Take some mushrooms, parsley, a clove of garlic, scallions, two cloves, and a piece of butter; give them a few turns in a stevvpan, and then add a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, veal blond, salt, and pepper. Stew them gently till the mushrooms are done, then put ni some cold roasted game cut into dice, take out the parsley, and beat up the whole. Serve the petits pates with Seville orange juice. GAME, POTTAGE OF. Take the large fillets from six partridges, and the most fleshy parts of a young wild rabbit, set them aside, and make the remainder into a consomme with 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of shin of beef, and the usual vegetables and seasoning; then, having taken out all the membranes, &c., from the rabbit and partridges which were set aside, pound and rub them through a sieve; make a panado with bread crumbs, a little consomme, and the yolks of two eggs ; let it thicken and gratinez, stirring it constantly. Mix the pounded game with an equal quantity of panado, and a small piece of fresh butter or ready-dressed calf's udder; add salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, truffles, or mush- rooms ; pound the whole with two more yolks of eggs, and one white beaten to a snow ; make this into balls, and lay them on a flat plate, so that they will easily slide off' into the boiling con- somme, which must be well skimmed. 'When the balls are sufficiently done pour the whole into a soup tureen, and serve. GAME PUDDING. Trim and truss a suf- ficient quantity of small birds, such as quails, larks, thrushes, &c., and fry them lightly in butter, with a handful of sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and any other seasoning you please; then make a thick stiff' paste, in which put the game, close tne paste round it, tie it in a cloth, and put it in a large saucepan of boiling water. When it has boiled an hour take it from the cloth, open the crust, and pour in some good cuUis or Espagnole, close it again, and serve it hot. GAME SOUP. A very good soup may be made in the season by taking all the breasts of any cold birds which have been left after dinner the preceding day. First pound the meat in a marble mortar, then break the legs and other bones in pieces, and boil them in some broth for an hour; do the same with six turnips, mash them, and strain them through a tamis with the meat that has been pounded; strain off the broth in the same manner, then put it into a soup kettle near the fire, but do not let it boil, and when ready have the yolks of six eggs mixed with half a pint of cream; strain this through a sieve, put the soup on the fire, and as it is about to boil add thereto the prepared eggs and cream, stirring the same well with a wooden spoon. Be careful not to let it boil, otherwise it will curdle. GAME, TAINTED : To Restoue. Charcoal powder rubbed over the tainted game, or dip- ping this into a solution of either the chloride of soda or of lime, removes the taint from it. We give the two recipes. Prepare the game for cooking, then wrap it in a fine linen cloth closely sewn in every part, so as to prevent any dust or cinders getting in. When this is done take a fire-shovelful of hot charcoal or live coal, and throw it into a bucket of cold water; then dip the game into it, and allow it to remain five minutes. Upon taking it out all the offensive smell will be removed, and it will be perfectly fit for use, but it must be dressed immediately. In a pan or bucket put i]h. of chloride of soda dissolved in two quarts of cold water. Pre- pare the game for the spit, and wash it thoroughly in the above solution just before roasting. GAME, TIM BALE OF. Prepare, bone, and cut up two young rabbits; dob them with bacon, season with minced parsley, scallions, shallots, mushrooms or truffles, spices, pepper, and salt; put these ingredients in a stewpan with butter, and harden the rabbits white in it; moisten with a glass of white wine and two large spoonsful of Espagnole or good stock, and let them simmer till done enough ; set them to cool; butter a mould of a sufficient size, and line it with rolled paste, beginning at the middle of the bottom, and continuing to go round till it comes to the top; the rolls of paste must lie firmly over each other. Have ready a piece of thin paste to lay in the bottom; and make it an inch larger that it may come up the sides; wash over this paste with yolk of egg, and put it in; press