BED [ 87 ] BED and thoroughly to air any bed in which sick persons have lain; and if any have died of contagious disorders, the beds in which they have lain ought to be buried or burnt, or washed with potash and boiling water. BEDROOM. A bed-chamber ought never to be on a ground-floor, or have a northern I aspect. Although, on account of a cooler air, i many prefer this situation in summer, yet it ; cannot fail to be unwholesome, as it is most I exposed to the influence of a damp atmosphere I in the morning and during the night. Hence ! we are of opinion that an eastern front is more ; conducive to health; because it receives the i first rays of the sun, that beneficent luminary, '. who, more regularly than a timepiece, awakens ■ the man of a sound body and mind, while he ; animates, invigorates, and incites him to rise, I after having refreshed himself by repose. Be- ! sides, a moderate degree of heat, thus natu- : rally imparted, may be more easily endured, and modified, if necessary, by various means, than a moist and pernicious atmosphere, which even the dry air of summer cannot easily correct. For similar reasons, small closets and con- cealed beds are extremely injurious, especially to young people and invalids. When persons are from necessity obliged to sleep in them, it will be advisable every morning, immediately after rising, to displace all the bed-clothes; and, if the sky be serene, to open the door and windows, in order to purify the stagnant air of so confined a resting-place ; but we think it, on the whole, a dangerous practice to sleep with open windows, whether at night or in the day- time; though a very small aperture, without admitting a current of air to pass through the room, may occasionally be useful. The bedroom should be in the quietest situ- ation possible—as it were, " the Temple of Silence,"—and, if practicable, not less than six- teen feet square. The height of this apartment, in which we pass almost half of our time, is in modern houses absurdly abridged to increase that of the drawing-room, which is often not occupied once in a month. Bedrooms should be thoroughly ventilated by leaving both the window and the door open every day when the weather is not cold or damp, during which the bed should remain unmade, and the clothes be taken off and spread out for an hour at least before the bed is made again. In very hot weather the temperature becomes considerably cooler every minute after ten o'clock. Between eight o'clock and twelve the thermometer often falls, in sultry weather, from 10° to 20°, and those who can sit up till twelve o'clock will sleep in an atmosphere many degrees cooler than those who go to bed at ten. This is extremely important to nerv- ous invalids, who, however extremely they may suffer from heat, we cannot advise to sleep with the smallest part of the window open during the night. A fire in the bedroom is sometimes indis- pensable, but not as usually made. It is com- monly lighted only just before bedtime, and prevents sleep by the noise it makes and the unaccustomed stimulus of its light. Chimneys frequently smoke when a fire is first lighted, particularly in snowy and frosty weather; and an invalid has to encounter not only the damp and cold of the room, but has his lungs irritated with the sulphureous puffs from the fresh-lighted fire. A fire should be lighted about three or four hours before, and so managed that it may bum entirely out half an hour before you go to bed. Then the air of the room will be comfortably warmed, and certainly more fit to receive an invalid who has been sitting all day in a parlour as hot as an oven, than a damp chamber that is as cold as a well. BEDSTRAW. The Galium vermi, or com- mon lady's bedstraw, is found on banks of dry soil by hedge-sides in most parts of England. The common name bedstraw (which we have from the German) is from the verb to strew or strove, anciently written straw. Thus the multi- tude strawed branches in the way before Christ. Before the invention of feather beds a variety of herbs were used to strew beds with ; and, doubtless, this was one of them. In Johnson's edition of Gerarde it is called our lady's bedstrow. Strawberry is derived fi'om the same origin. The flowers and herb of this plant will cui'dle milk. Dioscorides names it gallon from this property. The same property is attributed to it by Galen. Matthiolus informs us that in Tuscany people use it for this pui'pose, in order that their goat and sheeps' milk cheese may taste sweeter. Gerarde, who was a Cheshire- man, says, that in his county, especially about Namptwich, they use it in their rennet, deem- ing that the best cheese which is made with it; and in some of the Western Isles they curdle milk with a strong decoction of this herb. Boiled in alum water, the flower-stems dye of a good yellow colour. The roots dye a very fine red, not inferior to madder, but they are small. An ingenious gentleman, however, conversant with dyeing, assured Mr. Curtis that the roots produced a brighter colour than madder; and on that account they may be worth trying, espe- cially as the rest of the plant may be successfully used in dyeing yellow. They were cultivated many years since under the direction of the Committee of Privy Council for Trade. The roots were supposed, on an average, to weigh