GOU GRA r 572 ] the only means to prevent severe and frequent attacks. In short, temperance and moderate exercise are the most likely to prevent severe and frequent attacks of this most formidable, nay, this invincible disorder. Where costiveness prevails during a paroxysm of the gout, but particularly at its commence- ment, it may be removed by a solution of Epsom salts in peppermint water, or by rhubarb (10 or 15 grains) combined with 1 or 2 grains of calomel. In gouty affections medicines which promote a gentle perspiration are frequently of service ; e.g., take antimonial powder, 8 grains; subcar- bonate of ammonia, ^ drachm. Make four boluses with a sufficient quantity of the con- fection of roses, one of which may be taken every three or four hours, and assisted by the use of diluent liquors and temperate warmth. As a gentle aperient when required the fol- lowing will be serviceable ;—Take magnesia, ] drachm; powdered rhubarb, 10 grains; com- pound powder of cinnamon, 5 grains. Mix for a powder, to be taken as occasion may require. When the gout attacks a part where there is already an accumulation of chalk, from pre- ceding, long-continued, and nervous attacks, and that part is highly inflamed, the best appli- cation will be an emollient poultice, previously fomenting with flannels wrung out of a strong decoction of poppy heads made warm. In the ii'regular gout, where no inflammation of the joints is present, although the gouty inflamma- tion prevails in the system, but the stomach at the same time is affected with indigestion, flatulency, acrid eructations, and pain, the patient ought not only to avoid all debilitating causes, but should employ proper means for strengthening his system in general, and his stomach in particular. The first object may be attained by a proper quantity of plain nutritious animal food, and a moderate allowance of wine ; the second by means of aromatics, the Peruvian bark, &c. Take infusion of calumba root, 8 ozs.; compound tincture of Peruvian bark, and compound tnicture of cardamoms, of each 1 oz. Two large or table-spoonsful of this mix- ture may be taken twice a day. There is a remedy at present very much cried up in gouty attacks, which in many cases has alleviated the paroxysms, viz., the' eaii, medici- nale de Hiisson (the medicinal water of Husson), although in some cases it has produced alarm- ing effects, such as fainting, cold sweats, e.x- treme prostration of strength, excessive evacua- tions from the stomach and bowels, &c. These consequences, however, have only ensued when an over-dose has been taken. This remedy consists of some vegetable, of a bitter, nauseous taste, infused in Spanish wine, with an addition of the tincture of opium. It is supposed by some to be white hellebore ; by others, hedge hyssop ; and by others, again, to be meadow saffron. A preparation called the wine of the meadow saffron, given in the quantity of a fluid drachm twice a day in any vehicle, has been found a valuable remedy in both gout and rheumatism ; but to render the medicine more certain and efficacious the bowels should be particularly attended to, the patient at the same time abstaining from all food of a flatulent nature. The following is an admirable, and in many cases efficient, form of giving the meadow saf- fron, viz.:—Take liquor of acetated ammonia (formerly Mindererus' spirit), 1 oz. ; wine of meadow saffron, 1| drachm black drop, 8 drops; camphor mixture, 2 ozs. ; syrup of saff"i-on, 3 drachms. Make a mixture, and let the patient take a table-spoonful at bedtime, re- peating the dose the next night if necessary. GOUT AND RHEUMATISM, REY- NOLDS'S SPECIFIC FOR. {See Eait Medi- ciNALE DE Husson.) It is a similar preparation of colchicum. GOWLAND'S LOTION. Take of blanched bitter almonds 1 oz., and blanched sweet almonds J oz.; beat to a paste, add pure water 1 pint, mix well, strain through a piece of coarse muslin, put it into a bottle, add corrosive sublimate in powder 10 to 12 grains, dissolved in a tea-spoonful or two of spirit of wine, and shake well. Used as a cosmetic to improve the complexion, and also as a wash for obstinate eruptions. For the latter purpose the quantity of corrosive sublimate may be doubled ; but the weight given above should not be exceeded when the lotion is intended for a cosujetic. As a beautifier of the complexion it is employed by wetting the skin with it, either by means of the corner of a napkin, or the fingers dipped into it, and it is then gently wiped off with a dry cloth, GRAFTING STOCKINGS. Hold the parts to be joined between the thumb and forefinger of the left hand in the same manner as work for sewing is held, with the loops exactly opposite one to another, and the wrong sides outwards. Pass the needle, pointed fromyour chest, through the two loops which lie opposite to each other on each piece, and draw the thread through them ; then point the needle towards your chest, and, taking up the next loop on the farther piece, pass it a second time through the loop that is next to you , then take up a fresh loop on this side—that is, on the side next to you—and pass the needle again through the former, and pro- ceed this way, taking up a fresh loop on each side alternately, until the grafting is finished. GRANADINS OF DUCK. Cut off the