BAT [ 79 ] BAT temperature in some cases lower, and in some higher than its own, it receives caloric, instead of parting with it. The difference of density and humidity is the cause of its receiving it from some media whicli are of a lower tempe- rature than its own, as well as from most which are higher. This depends upon the capacity for caloric, and the conducting power of the surrounding medium. Thus, dry air at 70" Fahr. will impart heat to the body, while water at 92° will abstract it, though water at 96° may impart heat. The tepid bath, therefore, being so close upon the limit of abstracting or im- parting heat, cannot exercise a very powerful effect upon the function of the development of animal heat; neither does it much affect the circulation, which it rather retards than quickens; but its influence is mostly confined to the skin, which it cleanses, softens, and renders more fit to execute its duties. The cases in which the tepid bath is to be preferred to that of a different temperature, are those of a febrile character, joined to an irritability of the skin, which is generally dry and harsh; some cutaneous diseases, where, by friction, the scales are removed and a new surface presented ; and, lastly, as prepara- tory to the cold bath in delicate persons, or for those whose peculiarities of system render them unable to bear a warm bath of a high temperature. It is of much use in the form of tepid sponging of the surface in the advanced stage of fevers, and in convalescence from acute diseases. In this case vinegar is often added to the water with increased good effect. The primary effect of the application to the surface of the body of water of a temperature varying from 93° to 98°, is, in consequence of the communication of warmth, the same as that of dry heat, viz., a stimulating, enlivening, and expanding effect. Hence there is a quickening of the circulation and respiration, as well as the direction of a greater quantity of fluid to the surface, manifested by the swelling and redness of the part. There results, also, a freer and more lively action of the muscular system, and increased sensibility and activity of the nervous system. Diminished exhalation from the skin takes place, while a greatly increased absorption occurs. The exhalation from the lungs, however, j is increased. An increased quantity of heat is ! thus introduced into the system, felt first in the I superficial, but afterwards in the most internal j parts of the body. The secondary or ultimate effect is somewhat ij different. The increased action of the arteries ' gradually subsides, the pulse becomes fuller and I slower, and the greatest quantity of the blood lodges in the veins, particularly in the great venous centres, such as the vena porta and the liver, which it stimulates to increased secretion of bile. Corresponding changes occur in all the other organs ; and if the application of the warmth be continued for a longer time, the in- creased energy and elasticity of the muscles disappear, and a sense of fatigue, with atony, and a tendency to sleep succeeds. The final result of the action and reaction is an augmented secretion from the skin, and a corresponding diminution of urine, and of the secretion from the mucous surfaces. The Warm Bath may be employed to effect two opposite ends, to stimulate, or calm and soothe. It accomplishes the first when its temperature is high (98°), and its use is confined to five or ten minutes; the second when it is about 93°, and continued for three-quarters of an hour or an hour. Employed in this last way, Marcard found that it always diminished the velocity of the circulation, and that the longer the bath was continued the slower the pulse became; also, that the more the pulse deviated from a state of health, the more it is diminished by the warm bath. The bath may even be prolonged till it induce fainting and other con- sequences of a depressed circulation. Short of actual fainting it may be beneficially employed to produce great relaxation of the muscular system, so as to enable dislocations or hernias to be more easily reduced. The state of re- laxation bordering upon fainting is veiy favour- able to the process of absorption. It may, therefore, be advantageously employed in dropsy arising from weakness of the absorbents. As the warm bath has generally the effect of equalising the circulation and relieving internal congestion, it is much resortod to as a remedy in spasmodic and convulsive diseases; but here the utmost caution and discrimination are neces- sary. If the spasmodic actions result from an inflammatoiy state of any of the nervous centres, more harm than good will be done by a bath. The inflammatory condition must first be re- moved or greatly lessened by bleeding, purgatives, and other appropriate means, before the bath can be safely used. These cautions do not so strictly apply to the convulsive excitement which often precedes the eruption of small-pox, or even measles, which is often greatly relieved by the warm bath, which may also be repeated during the early stages of the eruption. (See Marcard, " Uber die Bnder," Hanover, 1793, or Duncan's " Med. Comm.," 2nd Decade, part x., p. 153.) The convulsions of infants during teething are almost invariably attempted to be removed by the warm bath, but in many in- stances more harm than good is done. The condition of the brain must be carefully inquired into by the medical attendant, and the state of the gums investigated before this measure should be had recourse to. If there be congestion of