AIT ALO [ 6 ] away fast enough hj a heavy, moist atmosphere; and in certain diseases of the lungs, in colds, consumptions, asthmas, &c., some patients, ac- cording to the quantity of watery vapour or nnucus exhaled from the lungs, will be bene- fited either by a dry air or the contrary. It is ■wrong, therefore, to lay down any general rule about a particular spot or climate, as its good or bad eftects will vary according to the state of the disease in each particular patient. See Dbainage and VentilatjiON. AITCHBONE. See Beef. AIX-LA-CHAPELLE, celebrated for its medicinal water, is a town of Westphalia. This water, like that of Harrowgate, in Yorkshire, contains sulphur and alkaline ingredients in proportions unusually large, rendering it bitter and otherwise nauseous to the taste. It may be bathed in of a temperature varying from 112° to 140°, and is so employed in diseases of the skin, rheumatic affections, and weakness arising from palsy. If drank, the quantity must at first be small, and only under the advice of medical practitioners, who prescribe it to patients suffering under diseases of the di- gestive organs, arising from luxurious living. Aix-la-Chapelle water maybe made artificially as follows. Take Water 6 galls. Solution of sulphuretted Ii3'clrog8a . . i gall. Common salt 433 grains Bicarbonate of soda . . . . 177 do. Chloride of calcium, or bleaching powder 45 do. Glauber salt 90 do. Chloride of magnesium . . , . 12 do. Mix the sulphuretted hydrogen solution with i gallon of the water; dissolve the five last- named ingredients in the remaining 5|- gallons of water; mix all together; impregnate with car- bonic acid by a soda-water machine, and bottle tightly. ALABASTER, or Plaster of Paris, is well known by its employment for taking casts of statues and other figures. If these are pur- chased in a polished state, nothing more is needed than to brush them over once or twice with a strong solution of isinglass, which, when dry, gives them the appearance of marble, and renders them much less liable to disfigurement by dust. To Bronze Alabaster. I Prepare the sur- face by sizing it over once or twice, and, when dry, touch the prominent parts of the figure with bronze No. 1, and the remainder with bronze No. 2; then soften down the lines of mixture of the two paints with a badger's hair tool. Bronze 1. Grind equal parts of Dutch metal and the following paint together, and thin the mixture with a little oil or turpentine. Bronze 2. Grind Prussian blue, verdigris, and ochre, separately with oil; then mix them together in such proportions as will produce a bronze green colour. II. Touch over the prominent parts of the figure with Bessimer's gold paint, or, instead thereof, use gold or Dutch leaf; then cover the remainder of the figure, as before, with the paint No. 2. To Join Alabaster. Ornaments of ala- baster or plaster may be joined together by means of a little white of egg, thickened with finely-powdered quicklime, or by a mixture of newly-baked and finely-powdered plaster of Paris, mixed up with the least possible quantity of water. To Polish Alabaster. The object received in the rough state from the hands of the sculptor or turner is rubbed with fiiaely-powdered pumice- stone, or dried shave-grass [equisetum) and water, and afterwards with a paste formed of finely- powdered and sifted slaked lime and water. The rough polish thus produced is then brought up, and finished off by friction with finely- powdered talc, or French chalk, until a satiny lustre is produced. A LA-MODE BEEF. See Beef. ALARUM, a term employed to signify any instrument or contrivance for the purpose of awakening persons from sleep at a certain hour, or of alarming them when exposed to danger. In the former sense it is generally a part of clockwork, and deserves here no further notice; but, in the latter, we strongly recommend the utility of alarums to every family, whether living in towns or in solitary situations in the country. Many ingenious suggestions have been de- vised for affordiug security to the industrious against the attempts of housebreakers: the most common of these are hanging bells to the win- dows, or larger bells and rattles kept in readiness for giving early notice to the police, or to the neighbour whose aid is required. In the year 1771 Mr. Henry invented a curious alarum, which was highly approved of by the head of the London police. Sir John Field- ing. All burglaries being perpetrated at night, this piece of mechanism deserves peculiar en- couragement. On being fixed up by a bell- hanger, with wires fastened to the windows and doors, it will, upon the least attempt to break into the house, go off with a noise sufficient to awaken the family. Another alarum is now employed which causes a similarly arousing noise by detonating powder. ALCOHOL. The name now usually given to pure spirit of wine. It is employed for dis- solving resins to make varnishes, and for making essence by adding to it an essential oil, such as of lemon, rose, &c.; to make medicinal tine tures; to fill the tubes of thermometers required