CHE [ 277 ] CHE fine, flaky crust; but if for mince pies, or any Bweet things, it should be washed. CHELSEA PENSIONER. A remedy for the rheumatism is well known under this name. It is said to be the prescription of a Chelsea pensioner by which the late Lord Amherst was cured. The following are its component parts :— Take gum guaiacum, 1 drachm ; powdered rhu- barb, 2 drachms ; cream of tartar, 1 oz.; flour of sulphur, 2 ozs.; 2 nutmegs finely powdered. 'To be made into an electuary with 1 lb. of clarified honey. Two large ppoonsful to be taken night and morning. CHELTENHAM SALTS. A factitious compound has been long vended as a popular purgative under this name. It is formed by triturating together the following salts :—Sul- phate of soda, 120 grains ; sulphate of magnesia, 66 grains; muriate of soda, 10 grains ; sulphate of iron, i grain. As a purgative it is very effi- cacious, and superior, probably, to that which is actually obtained by the evaporation of the Cheltenham water itself; for, notwithstanding the high pretensions with which this latter salt has been publicly announced, it will be found to be little else than common Glaubers salt. This fact has been confirmed by the experiments of Mr. Richard Phillips, who observes that the " real (Cheltenham salts contain no chalybeate property, but are merely sulphate of soda, mixed with a minute quantity of soda, and a very small portion of common salt." It could not be imagined that the salt should contain oxide of iron, even in a state of mi.-sLure, much less in combination, for carbonate of iron is readily decomposed by ebullition, and the oxide of iron is precipitated before the salt can be crystallised. A preparation, under the name of Thomson's Cheltenham salts, is accordingly manufactured in London by evaporating a solution consisting of sulphate of soda and subcarbonate of soda. Efflorescence of real Cheltenham salts. The preceding salt deprived of its water of crystal- lisation. Efflorescence of real magnesia Cheltenham salts, made from the waters of the chalybeate magnesia spa. This is asserted to be a subsulphate from nature, which combines both a pure and a sub- sulphated magnesia in its composition; " but," says Mr. Phillips, " neither nature nor art has ever produced such a combination. In truth it consists of Epsom salt, with small portions of magnesia, and muriate of magnesia or muriate of soda." Murio sulphate of magnesia and iron. The preparation thus named by M.r. Thomson was found by Mr. Phillips to consist of Epsom salt, deprived of part of its water of crystallisation, and discoloured by a little rust of iron, and con- taining a small portion of muriate of magnesia. CHELTENHAM WATER. The chalybeate saline spring, to which the town of Cheltenham in Gloucestershire owes its celebrity, is called the original or Old Spa, from its being the first well there discovered about a century ago. Its temperature in the morning is generally above 53° or 54°, and at noon, in the hottest season, 6° or 7* higher. When freshly drawn its water appears tolerably clear, but not per- fectly transparent. To the taste it is saline, bitter, and chalybeate, but not brisk nor pun- gent. Its solid contents in a wine gallon are the following:— Grains Sulphate of soda and magnesia (Glauber's and Epsom salts) .... 480 Oxide of iron . . . , . . 5 Muriate of soda (sea salt) ... .5 Sulphate of lime 40 Carbonate and muriate of magnesia . 25 555 Cubic inches Carbonic acid gas . . « . 30 36 Azotic and hepatic gases . » . 15'18 45-54 This analysis was made by Dr. Fothergill in the year 1788. Although the water of this well had generally a strong flavour of sulphuretted hydrogen gas many years ago, yet it has not discovered any indication of it for several years past. Its medical virtues depend entirely on the purgative salts and iron which it contains, aided by the diluting principle of the water. The iron strengthens the stomach, while the salts operate on the bowels. Cheltenham possesses numerous other wells of various characters. Some differ widely in properties from the Old Spa, while others re- semble it. The best example of this is the chalybeate, strong saline well in the long pump room, situated in Montpellier ground. The water of this pump, when first drawn, is perfectly transparent, is without smell, and has a strong refractive power. To the taste it is chalybeate, distinctly saline, and slightly bitter. Its tem- perature was 53° at 29'5 barometrical pressure the temperature of tne air being 65° Fahr. Its specific gravity was as 2 039 to 2-036. On pouring the water fresh from the pump from one tumbler into another, an,d leaving it ex- posed to the air, it separates a number ol exceedingly minute air bubbles, which adhere to the inner surface of the glass. Exposed to the open atmosphere for eight days it sufi'ered no material change. The abundance of this spring is such that it yields upwards of 800 gallons of water in twenty-four hours at every season of the yeai;..