[ 433 ] DRO DRO acidulated with the crystals of tartar, as may suit his palate. Promoting perspiration has been deemed heneficial in dropsy; but it is not much de- pended upon, nor is it even used where there is much general debility. To promote the flow of urine, diuretics, as the oxymel of meadow saffron, squills, acetate of potass, spirit of nitrous ether, &c., combining them with tonics, are chiefly to be depended upon. The debility of the system must be removed by studiously avoiding all the remote causes in our power, added to gentle exercise, supporting the integuments of the lower extremities by means of bandages properly applied, such as a well-con- structed lace-stocking or simple flannel bandage, beginning at the extremity of the foot, and con- tinuing it above the knee; by taking the Peru- vian bark, infusion of quassia, and other tonics. The vapour bath, friction of the legs and thighs, or wherever the seat of the complaint may be, will all tend, should the disease not be too far advanced, to alleviate, if not to remove the sufferings of the patient. An infusion or decoction of the fresh tops of broom (green),beer boiled with juniper berries, &c., may be drunk with the other remedies. Foxglove may also be taken in the following form, viz.:— Take the leaves of purple foxglove, dried, 2 drachms ; boiled water, ^ pint. Infuse them for two hours, and strain off the liquor; then add spirit of nitric ether, 1 oz.; compound spirit of juniper, 2 ozs. Two table-spoonsful of this mixture may be taken every four hours. It not unfrequently happens that in dropsical legs there is a tendency to fester and gangrene. When this occurs a strong solution of the super- acetate of lead, in the proportion of two drachms to a pint of water, will be a good application by means of linen rags, or an infusion of the leaves of foxglove as recommended by Dr. Ferriar. All dropsical patients ought to live upon light nutritious food and powerful aromatic vegetables, as garlic, onions, mustard, cresses, horseradish, and shallots, using for common drink any of the diuretic infusions, such as fresh broom tops, crystals of tartar, &c. Removal from a damp to a dry situation or to a warm climate is recom- mended upon unquestionable authority. Dropsv of the Belly. In attending to the symptoms of this aspect o the disease it will be impossible not to distinguish it from dropsy. The fluctuations hei'e may be easily detected by applying the left hand to one side of the abdomen, and then striking it on the other with the right. The symptoms and the treatment in this case are much the same as in dropsy of the extremities; the fluid must equally be evacuated by means of strong purgatives, diuretics, with the occasional use of emetics, &c., as already noticed. To pro- cure a discharge of mine, long-continued gentlo friction of the abdomen, with the fingers dipped in oil to prevent the skin from being excoriated, has been recommended. When the preceding means fail tapping must be resorted to, although this step by no means tends to eradicate the disease. Whenever, there- fore, it reaches this point, the treatment, if i it has not before, ought to devolve on some experienced practitioner, as well as in the management of dropsy of the chest, which more particularly requires greater discrimina- ! tion, combined with the most skilful and | judicious ti'eatment, &c. DROWNED, APPARENTLY. See Anima- tion, Suspended. General Cautions.—1. Lose no time. 2. Avoid all rough usage. 3. Never hold the body up by the feet. 4. Nor roll the body on casks. 5. Nor rub the body with salt or spirits. 6. Nor inject tobacco smoke or infusion of tobacco. Send quickly for medical assistance, but do not delay the following means :— L Convey the body carefully, with the head and shoulders in a raised position, to the nearest house. 2. Strip the body and rub it dry; then wrap it in hot blankets, and place it in a warm bed in a warm chamber. 3. Wipe and cleanse the mouth and nostrils. 4. In order to restore the natural warmth of tlie body— a. Move a heated covered warming-pan over the back and spine. b. Put bladders or bottles of hot water or heated bricks to the pit of the stomach, the armpits, between the thighs, and to the soles of the feet. c. Foment the body with hot flannels; but, if possible, d. Immerse the body in a warm bath as hot as the hand can bear without pain, as this is preferable to the other means of restoring warmth. e. Rub the body briskly with the hand ; do not, however, suspend the use of the other means at the same time. 5. In order to I'estore breathing introduce the pipe of a common bellows (where the ap- paratus of the Royal Humane Society is not at hand) into one nostril, carefully closing* the other and the mouth, at the same time draw- ing downwards and pushing gently backwards the upper part of the windpipe, to allow a more free admission of air. Blow the bellows gently, in order to inflate the lungs, till the breast bo a little raised; the mouth and nostrils should thea _ 2 F -