CIT CIT [ 307 1 in a mortar with a little orange-flower water; put them to the curd, and add some Naples biscuits and green citron chopped very small. Sweeten, and bake in tins. CITRON CREAM. Boil 1 pint of cream with I oz. of isinglass, a little cinnamon and lemon-peel, and a bay leaf. When the isin- glass is dissolved strain the cream into a deep dish. Cut citron into thin slices, and put them in when the cream is nearly cold; take care the citron does not fall to the bottom, though the cream should cover it. Serve it quite cold. CITRON MELONS (Preserved). Take some fine citron melons, and pare, core, and cut them into slices; then weigh them, and to every 6 lbs. of melon allow 6 lbs. of the best double-refined loaf sugar, and the juice and yellow rind (pared off very thin) of 4 large fresh lemons; also ^ lb. of race ginger. Put the slices of melon into a preserving kettle, and boil them half an hour or more till they look quite clear, and are so tender that a broom twig will pierce through them; then drain them, lay them in a broad pan of cold water, cover them, and let them stand all night. In the morning tie the race ginger in a thin muslin cloth, and boil it in three pints of clear spring or pump water till the water is highly flavoured; then take out the bag of ginger. Having broken up the sugar, put it into a clean preserving kettle, and pour the ginger water over it. When the sugar is all melted set it over the fire, put in the yellow peel of the lemons, and boil and skim it till no more scum rises; then remove the lemon- peel, put in the sliced citrons and the juice of the lemons, and boil them in the syrup till all the slices are quite transparent, and so soft that a straw will go through them, but do not allow them to break. When quite done put the slices, while still warm, into wide-mouthed glasses or white-ware jars, and gently pour on the syrup. Lay inside of each jar upon the top of the syrup a double white tissue paper, cut exactly to fit the surface. Put on the lids of the jars, and paste thick paper over them. This will be found a delicious sweetmeat, equal to any im- ported from the West Indies, and far less ex pensive. We recommend it highly. Citron melons are brought to Philadelphia market in *the month of August. CITRON, MOCK. Cut the citrons longways into quarters; scrape out the seeds and inside ; preserve and candy them. Care must be taken of all fruits kept in syrup. If there is any froth on them they must be boiled up, and if they are very frothy and sour the syrup must be first boiled, then put on the fruit, and boiled all together. CITRON PASTE. Cut off the ends of the citrons, take out the middle, with all the Reeds ; boil them in some water, and when quite tender take them from the fiie and throw them into cold water a moment; then, having pressed them in a cloth to get the water out, pound and sift , them. To every J lb. of this marmalade put J lb. of clarified sugar; simmer them together, stirring constantly until well mixed ; then put it into moulds, and place it in a stove to dry. CITRON, PRESERVED. Lay some white citrons cut in pieces in salt and water for four or five hours; then, having washed them in cold water, boil them; when tender, drain, and lay them in as much clarified sugar as will cover them. The next day drain off the syrup and boil it; when quite smooth and cold put it on the citrons; let them stand four-and-twenty hours, then boil the syrup again, and put in the citrons. The third day boil both together, and put them into moulds to candy. CITRON, PRESERVED (Liquid). Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, so that the inside may take the sugar as well as the outside, and put them over the fire in some water; whenever they are near boiling put cold water to them. As soon as the citrons rise to the top take them out and throw them into cold water. They must then be put on the fire again in the same water, and boiled gently until tender; then take tiiem out, and put them in cold water. After this boil them seven or eight times in clarified sugar; pour the whole into an earthen pan, and let it stand. The next day drain the fruit, and boil up the syrup twenty or thirty times ; add a little more sugar, and pour it over the citrons ; do this for three successive days, increasing the degree to which you boil the sugar daily, so that at the last boiling the degree may be d la perle. The fruit may then be put into pots. / CITRON PUDDING. Mix together 1 pint of cream and the yolks of 6 eggs ; add to this 4 ozs. of fine sugar, the same of citron shred finely, 2 spoonsful of flour, and a little nutmeg. Place this mixture in a deep dish, bake it in a hot oven, and turn it out. CITRON RATAFIA. Pare 7 or 8 citrons very thin; cut the peel into small pieces, and put them into a jar with 3 pints of brandy, and let them infuse for three weeks; then add to this I lb. of sugar boiled in ^ pint of water, and well skimmed ; let it stand twelve or fifteen days, when it may be bottled. CITRON, SYRUP OF. Put into a china bowl alternate layers of fine powder sugar and citron pared and cut in very thin slices, and let them stand till the next day; then drain off the synip, and clarify it over a gentle fire. CITRON WATER. Bruise 18 ozs. of good citron-peel, 9 ozs. of orange-peel, and \ lb. of