GIB C 551 ] GER dose, and are equal in effect to half a draclim of the powder of gentian root. Gentian is ren- dered more grateful both to the palate and the stomach by the addition of an aromatic, orange- peel usually being employed. Of the infusion of gentian from 1 oz. to 4 ozs. may be taken twice daily, or a tea-spoonful of the tincture of gentian in a glass of cold water. These doses are to act as a tonic or strengthener of the stomach. An intensely bitter spirit is distilled from gentian, which is much relished by the lower orders of Swiss. GERMAN PASTE FOR CAGE BIRDS. Take 1 lb. of wheat flour or of pease-meal, 2 ozs. of fresh butter, 4 ozs. of brown sugar, three eggs boiled hard and chopped very small; put the flour or meal, with the butter, chopped eggs, and sugar, into a wide saucepan over a slow fire, and keep stirring it to prevent its burning. When it gets dry continue stirring it until it becomes crumbly. When crumbly put a pint of cracked hempseed into the mixture, and mix well together. If burnt it is injurious to the birds. It will be good for mouths if kept in a dry, cool place. GERMAN RICE is the same as Pearled Barley. GERMAN TINDER. See Boletus Tinder. GERMAN YEAST. Take brewery, or, by preference, distillery yeast, aud filter it through a muslin or silk sieve into a tub or vat con- taining about four or five times the quantity of soft or cold spring water. The water must be as cold as possible, and in summer ice should be dissolved in it. As soon as the liquid yeast comes into the water the whole must be well stirred up, in preference with a broom, until it is thoroughly mixed, and has a good foam or light head; leave it until quite settled and the water becomes clear, and then draw the sur- face water gently off, so as not to disturb the settled substance. The tub should have cocks at different heights, to allow the water to be drawn off gently by opening the highest cocks first. This done, you again pump the tub full of cold water, and stir it up again; let it settle, and draw off as before, and repeat this operation until the water becomes tasteless and clear; that is, till the water has cleansed the yeast of all its bitterness; then add to the settled substance, for every twelve gallons of yeast employed at the commence- ment, i oz. of carbonate of ammonia, and 1 oz. of bicarbonate of soda, which should be pre- viously dissolved in a pint of cold water. Mix this liquid with the purified yeast, and leave it in this state for the night, or twelve or fourteen hours; then pump cold water again into your tub, stir it well up as before, and when settled draw it off, which concludes the purifying process. This done, the yeast m its settled state must be emptied into a clean linen bag, tied up, and placed between two boards large enough to cover the bag, which is intended to press the liquid substance out, which must be done as gently as possible, so that the substance becomes gradually freed from water, and forms itself into a substance similar to bread paste or dough, which can then be formed to size and weight as needed. In Austria the weight is something near 1 lb. when dry, in square forms, and about one inch thick. The whole process should be conducted in a vei"y cool place, and when once the pressed j'east has become moistly dry it should be kept in a cold place, as otherwise the yeasting process will begin; whereas, kept in a cold place, it will keep from eight to ten days in summer, and from ten to fifteen in winter, but not longer in Austria. GHERKINS: To Pickle. Let them lie three or four days in salt and water, then wipe them dry, and put them in stone jars. Boil a sufficient quantity of the best vinegar, with plenty of ginger, black pepper, allspice, a few cloves, a little mace, some horseradish, peeled onions and shallots, and a small quantity of garlic ; pour this over the gherkins, cover the jar with vine leaves and a plate, and set them near the fire. Next day drain off the vinegar, boil it, pour it hot over them, and lay fresh leaves. When cold tie them down closely with bladder and leather. If you wish to have the gherkins green keep them in hot vinegar some time before they are bottled. GIBLET PIE (I). Very nicely clean a goose or duck's giblets, stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bundle of sweet herbs till nearly done, and let them grow cold ; then, if there is not a sufficient quantity to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or mutton steak at the bottom ; put the liquor of the giblets also into the dish, and bake it. When the pie is baked pour in a large cupful of cream. You may add, if you please, sliced potatoes, and bake them with the pie. GIBLET PIE (2). Clean and half stew two or three sets of goose giblets, cut the leg in two. the wing aud neck into three, and the gizzard into four pieces; preserve the liquor, set the giblets by till cold, and season the whole with black pepper and salt; then put them into a deep dish, cover with paste, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, oi'nament it, and bake it an hour and a half in a moderate oven. While doing take the liquor the giblets were stewed in, and skim it clean ; put it over the fire in a pan ; thicken it with flour and butter, or flour and water; season it with pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon; add a little browning, strain it through