[ 478 ] EXE ETN bulk in the part to which it is applied, in this way it has frequently facilitated the reduction of strangulated hernia. ETNA is the name of an inverted cone- shaped tin vessel, fixed in a cup of the same metal. In this cup a dessert-spoonful of naphtha being burnt rapidly, heat? water in the tin vessel. It is admirable for shaving or the sick room. In the sick room spirit of wine should be used instead of naphtha, the smell of the latter being powerful. ETOUFFfiE. Cut some leg of mutton into pieces the size of half a walnut, and stew them in hog's lard or other fat; in the remainder of the fat fry some chopped chives, and then add a glass of white wine, four cloves of chopped garlic, parsley, pimento, salt, cloves, and cinna- mon ; put the whole into a boiler with a narrow neck, so that a large onion may serve for a lid, and stew it over a gentle fire, stirring it from time to time. When you think the whole is done uncover it, strain the sauce, and serve on slices of toasted bread. EVERTON TAFFEY. Have ready lib. of treacle, 1 lb. of moist sugar, and i lb. of butter. It must be done over a clear fire, and in a saucepan large enough to allow of its boiling fast. First take the butter, and with a knife rub it on the bottom of the saucepan until it is melted; then add the ti-eacle and sugar, stirring all gently with a knife until the whole is in a boiling state. Have close at hand a basin of cold water, in which, after it is boiled for about ten minutes, drop a little from the knife point. If you can take it from the water in a crisp state it is done enough : this will require very nice attention, or it will be spoiled by the taste of burning. Have ready a large tin dripping-pan, with a small portion of butter rubbed over every part; when the taffey has arrived at a crisp point immediately pour the whole into the pan, and let it remain until cold ; then turn the pan, give it a rap or two on the bottom, and the taffey will fall out in pieces. It must not be allowed to be exposed to the air, but should be put into a canister that will exclude the air directly from it, and it will keep any length of time. EVE'S PUDDING. See Pudding, Eve's. EXERCISE. Motion or bodily exercise is necessary to the preservation of health, which is promoted while the bounds of moderation are not exceeded. Too violent exercise, or a total want of it, is attended with equal disadvantages. Much also depends on the kind of motion and the various postures of the body. The essential advantages of exercise are the following:—Bodily strength is increased, the circulation of the blood and all other fluids pro- moted, the necessary secretions and excretions ■»<». are duly performed, the whole mass of the blood is cleared and refined, so that it cannot stagnate in the minutest capillary vessels, and if any obstruction should begin to take place it will thus be effectually removed. That exercise is enjoined by nature we may learn from the whole structure of the human body, the number of muscles formed for motion, and the mechanism in the circulation of the blood itself. There are, indeed, no healthier people than those who take strong daily exercise. Man in a state of health is instinctively excited to muscular exertion, and children that are per- fectly healthy are constantly running about, and in almost uninterrupted motion. But if exercise, either by its violence or dura- tion, exceed the proper limits, it naturally quick- ens both respiration and the circulation of the blood, which may occasion the bursting of small blood-vessels, miscarriages, inflammations, and collections of blood towards certain pai'ts of the body, such as the heart and the brain. The saline acrimony of the fluids is thus more dis- engaged, the fat is dissolved, and inflammatory fevers, hemorrhages, and palsies may be the consequence. Violent exercise is particularly hurtful to per- sons unaccustomed to it, or who have committed excesses in drinking, and, what is still worse, in eating more than is necessary; and those whose bodies have not been sufficiently nourished by food and drink may also be injured by too much e.\^ercise. The sudden transition from a state of rest to violent action is likewise hurtful, and still more so in hot than in cold weather. After strong emotions of the mind every species of bodily exercise ought to be avoided till mental tran- quillity returns after bodily repose ; and we ought to guard against the effects of cold, as it may prove extremely prejudicial in such a state. With respect to the manner of taking exer- cise three principal points are to be attended to. 1. As to the kind of exei'cise, the various species of which may be aptly divided into active and passive. The active are of a very diversified nature—walking, running, leaping, swimming, riding, fencing, the military exercise, different sorts of atJiletic games, as well as every other kind that requires muscular exertion. Passive exercise comprises riding in a carriage, sailing, friction, swinging^ &c. The more active species of exercise are bene- ficial to youth, to those of a middle age, to the robust in general, and particularly to the coi-pu- lent, the plethoric, and those whose evacuations are not in due proportion to their supplies. The passive kinds of exercise, on the contrary, are better suited to infants, to old, dry, and emaciated persons, to the delicate and de-