[ 428 3 owners consists in the removal of tlie following evils:— 1. Excess of moisture, whicli prevents the permeation of the soil by the atmosphere, and the consequent healthy growth of plants. 2. The lowering of the temperature and the chilling of the vegetation, from the diminu- tion of the effects of the solar warmth not only on the surface of the land, but at the depths occupied by the roots of plants. 3. The injury to domestic animals, correspond- ing to the effects produced on human beings by marsh miasma, chills, and colds, which induce a low state of health, and in extreme cases the rot, or typhus. 4. The presence of damp in the foundations and lower rooms of houses, which causes decay, dilapidation, and discomfort. Let n'ot any of our readers conclude that this is an unimportant inquiry, or imagine, as an excuse for their inactivity, that " it is only a wet ditch, and does not come close to the bouse." We have known many a wet ditch which kept the inmates of its owner's house in a constant state of ill-health. We remember well an opulent Essex farmer, who had, as he said, for sevei'al years, *' the doctor always in the house;" and this state of affairs constantly attended him until he drained and filled up a horse-pond, full of foul and stagnant water, which was placed in his farmyard directly Tinder his parlour window. " It is in yaiu that the owner of the house directs his attention to any of its internal comforts, or to the garden with which it should be accompanied, if he places it in an unhealthy, wet situation, surrounded by stagnant ponds or ditches—places where, at particular seasons of the year, sulphuretted and carburetted hydrogen gases are copiously genei-ated and emitted, and in whose neighbourhood, as a certain consequence, typhus fever and other diseases are pretty sure to be rife." All these facts were some time since brought before the public in the able Report of Mr. Chadwick on the Sanitary Condi- tion of the Poor. In this valuable work Mr. Chad- wick produces, upon this branch of our inquiry, a large body of evidence. It is hardly necessary to quote much of this unanswerable testimony in support of the fact that, wherever stagnant, impure waters are found, disease in varying forms is ceitain to atia.;k those who live in the immediate neighbouihood. " After twenty-six years' practice in this neighbourhood," observes Mr. p. R. M'Nab, the medical officer of the Epping Union," I may venture to add the followr jng observation.—that I have scarcely ever had a case of typhus fever in a malignant form without discovering some stagnant drain or over- charged cesspool, or some other manifest cause of malaria, in the immediate vicinity of the residence of the patient." The evidence of a host of other medical men is entirely confirmatory of the same fact. Mr. Oldham, the medical officer of the Chesterfield Union, remarked, when speaking of Wessington, " Most of the houses surround an undrained common, full of pools of stagnant water, that in the winter season overflow, and in this season the neigh- bourhood appears less infected with fever. In the summer months and greater part of the spring and autumn these pools are stagnant, and undoubtedly a fruitful source of malaria; indeed, the neighbourhood of Wessington is scarcely ever free from fever at these seasons of the year. I am led to conclude that the de- composition constantly going on in these small pools is the source of the malaria, and that the malaria so engendered propagates fever." "The malaria arises," says Mr. Blick, tho medical officer of the Bicester Union, " from the decomposition of vegetable matter left upon Otmoor (a marsh of about 4,000 acres) by the pi'evious winter's flood, and acted upon by the sun during the summer." Mr. J. Holt, a sur- geon at Leighton Buzzard, observes, ■' The great prevalence of these fevers in hot summers is principally attributable to the number of stagnant ponds and ditches which are situated in the vei-y midst of many of the towns and villages of this union, and which in hot weather become quite putrid and offensive, from the quantity of decaying animal and vegetable matter. I have generally obsei-ved that the greater number of these fevers occur in houses situated in the immediate vicinity of these ponds, and have no doubt that they are the chief cause of nearly aU the fevers of this description." The importance to the preservation of health of even keeping roads and ditches free from stagnant water and decomposing organic matters is not yet well understood by the public. " The sanitary effect of road cleaning," says Mr. Chadwick, " to which house drainage and road drainage are auxiliary, is not confined to the streets in towns and the roads in villages, but extends over the roads at a distance from habita- tions on which there is a traffic." Dr. Harrison, whose testimony Mr. Chadwick cites on the subject of the analogy of the diseases of animals to those which affect the human constitution, in treating of the prevention of fever or the rot amongst sheep, wai'ns the shepherd that, after providing drained pasi ure and avoiding " rot- ting places " in the fields, all his care may be frustrated if he does not avoid, with equal care, leading the sheep over wet and miry roads, with . stagnant ditches, which are as pernicious as the places in thefields.designated as "rotting-places."