BAG BAG C 54 ] The Buckingliamshire bacon is the very best in England; but the whole of that which is made is consumed in the county. In the farm- house kitchen, as well as in the common room of the cotter, a couple of flitches of bacon may be seen hanging in the chimney, subject to the action of the smoke arising from the wood fires in use there. Suspended from the ceiling of the room is a bacon rack containing several flitches more, destined, in their turn, to occupy the sides of the chimney. The hog, being slaughtered by the hog butcher of the village or parish—for the Buckingham peasant has a horror of taking life, unless it be " professionally,"—the carcase, instead of being scalded to get off the hair, is singed with burning straw and scraped. The head, the tongue, the chines, and the hands or shoulders, are then salted according to the ordinary method of salt- ing meat. The hams are also separated from the flitches, which are cured in the following manner. Half a pound of saltpetre is pounded very fine and divided into two equal parts, one of which is for the two hams, the other for the two flitches. This latter portion being also divided into two equal parts, one of them is well rubbed over each flitch, especial care being taken to apply a larger quantity to the parts whence the ham and shoulder have been re- moved. The flitches are then placed on the salting form during ten or twelve hours. Mean- while 7 lbs. of salt are mixed with IJlb. of coarse moist sugar, and heated in a frying-pan, being stirred so as to give the same temperature to the whole mass. The mixture, as hot as the hand can possibly bear it, is rubbed over the flitches, which are then placed, one upon the other, in a salting-pan, when the brine will immediately begin to form. The bacon must now be well basted and rubbed with the brine, and turned twice a week, the under flitch being placed uppermost each time that the flitches are turned. At the expiration of four weeks the bacon is taken from the brine, hung up to dry, and afterwards smoked. The two hams are cured simultaneously with the flitches. On the first day the i\h. of powdered saltpetre destined for them, being divided into two equal portions, each ham is well rubbed with one of these parts. It is then placed in a separate dish, with the rind or back part dowTiwards, where it remains until the flitches are rubbed and put into the salting-pan. Four pounds of salt, and 1^ lb. of moist sugar, well mixed together, are then heated in a frying- pan, as for the bacon, and the hams well rubbed with the hot mixture, after which they are put into a separate salting-pan to make their own brine. Here they are rubbed and basted with the brine, and turned every day during five weeks, when they are hung up to diy, prior to being smoked. The two brines are now mixed, with the addition of ^Ih. more of moist sugar; and this general brine is boiled and skimmed. A number of neats' tongues, salted during twenty-four hours to make them disgorge, together with the tongues of sheep, hogs, and deer, previously put into salt for a few hours, are then placed in the brine by those who are sufil- ciently wealthy to obtain them. In three weeks these tongues are fit for the table, or for being dried and smoked. The bacon and hams thus cured are hung up to dry in the bacon rack, and on nails in the kitchen, the hams being sometimes covered with brown paper, a very unnecessary precaution. When the pickle that remained upon them has crystallised upon their surface, and they are quite dry externally, the hams and bacon are hung in the chimney to undergo the action of the smoke arising from the wood fires—wood being the ordinary fuel used in the agricultural districts of Buckinghamshire. No artificial means of smoking are resorted to in this county as in Yorkshire, where hams are manufactured for exportation to London and India. The Hampshire bacon and hams, being next in repute to those of Buckinghamshire, will be next noticed. About Michaelmas seems the period adopted in most country places for slaughtering hogs and converting their flesh into ham and bacon, in order that these may be smoked by the winter fires without additional expense ; and this is the case both in Bucking- hamshire and in Hampshire. In this latter county the curing is very similar to the mode pursued in the former, with this difference only, that to 4 lbs. of white and 2 lbs. of bay salt for the bacon are added 2 lbs. of coarse brown sugar, and 4 oz. of sal prunella; and for the hams, with 2 lbs. of white and I lb. of bay salt are mixed 2 lbs. of brown sugar and 3 ozs. of sal prunella. Along the sea-coast and in the channel islands belonging to this county, the bacon and hams are smoked with dried sea- weed, which imparts to them a rich and delicious flavour. Like the bacon and hams of Bucking- hamshire, those of Hampshire never find their way out of that county, except as presents. The hams made in the island of Jersey are of par- ticularly fine flavour, and sometimes appear in London at the tables of those who have property iu or are connected with that island. Though Suffolk may yield the palm to Buck- inghamshire for bacon, it nevertheless produces the best hams in England, but which are made only for private use. The excellence of these hams depends more upon the mode of curing than upon the superiority of the meat, which is inferior to that of Buckinghamshire and