GOU GOO [ 569 ] GOOSEBERRY, COMPOTE OF. Prepare some sugar to the sixth degree [grande plume), put the gooseberries into it to boil a moment, and let them cool before you skim them if for present use; if for keeping, refine the sugar still more by boiling. GOOSEBERRY CREAM. Boil one quart of gooseberries very quickly in as much water as will cover them, and stir in about ^ oz. of good butter. When they are soft pulp them through a sieve, sweeten the pulp while it is hot with sugar, and then beat it up with the yolks of four eggs. Serve in a dish, cups, or glasses. GOOSEBERRY CUSTARD. Boil three pints of gooseberries till tender, rub them through a sieve, and beat up with the pulp the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two, adding sugar to the taste, and two table-spoonsful of orange or rose-flower water. Wben mixed set it over the fire, stirring it continually till it is properly thickened, but not suffered to boil. GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Put a quart of green gooseberries into a stone jar, with some pounded sugar and a very little water, and place it on a stove, or in a pan over the fire. When the fruit is tender press it through a cullender or hair sieve with some more sugar, and let it stand till cold ; then beat up the yolk of an egg with sugar and grated nutmeg, stir the whole gently into a quart of boiled milk over a slow fire till it simmers, and then take it off; put in the fruit by degrees, and serve it when cold. GOOSEBERRY JAM. Pick out the seeds of full-grown, but not ripe gooseberries, put them into a pan of water, and afterwards on a sieve to drain; beat them in a marble mortar with their weight of sugar, and boil a quart to a mash in as much water; then squeeze it, and to every pint of liquor add 1 lb. of fine sugar. Continue to boil and skim the liquor, after which put in green gooseberries, and when the whole becomes thick and of a good colour take it off, and put the jam into glasses. GOOSEBERRY JELLY. Boil a quart of gooseberries, red or green, but not over-ripe, in as much water till they mash; then drain all the juice through a sieve or jelly bag, and having boiled up very high as much common syrup as there is of juice, mix the whole, and keep on boiling together for about ten minutes, skimming it all the time. GOOSEBERRY PASTE. Take full-grown red gooseberries, cut them in two, and pick out the seeds; get ready a pint of currant juice, and boil the fruit in it till tender ; put ] ^ lb. of double-refined sugar into a pan, with as much •water as will dissolve it, and boil it till thick ; then put the whole together, and make it scald- ing hot without boiling. After this proceed as in other pastes. GOOSEBERRY PIE. Line your dish with a nice puff paste, lay in your gooseberries, sweeten them well, put on the cover, and finish the same as all other pies. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Stew your fruit over a slow fire till tender, and then pulp it through a hair sieve ; beat up five or six eggs, strain them to about a quart of the pulp when cold, and mix up both with crumbs of bread or Naples biscuits, plenty of sugar, a little grated orange or lemon-peel, and nutmeg, with some rose or orange-flower water. Line the dish with paste, pour in the fruit, then lay a rim of crust round the edge, and bake it moderately. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. Take two hands- ful of half-ripe gooseberries, open them, and take out the seeds ; blanch them in a little salt and water, and drain them; put two spoonsful of veloute and the same of butter sauce into a saucepan, mix them well together, and heat them; throw in the gooseberries, stir them well, and season the sauce according to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. This sauce is eaten with boiled mackerel. Fennel may be added or not at pleasure. GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. Bruise some gooseberries that are quite ripe, and to three quarts of water put one quart of gooseberries in a large tub ; let them remain sixty hours, stir- ring them frequently ; then strain them through a hair bag, and to every gallon of the liquor add 1 lb. of coarse sugar; stir it well together ; put it into a barrel and a toast and yeast ; cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate, and let it stand nine or ten months. The greater the quantity of sugar and fruit the stronger the vinegar. GOOSEBERRY WINE. To 4 lbs. of gooseberries take 1 \ lb. of sugar and a quart of spring water. Bruise the berries, and let them lie twenty-four hours in water, stirring them frequently; then press out the liquor, and add the sugar to it, after which put it into a clean cask, and when the fermentation 1ms ceased close it up, and let it stand a month ; then rack it off into another cask, and let it stand five or six weeks longer. On bottling it off put a lump of sugar into every bottle. GOUFFRES. Cut i lb. of blanched almonds into very small fillets; put them into a basin, with 4 ozs. of sugar in powder, half a table- spoonful of fine flour, the rasped zesi of a lemon, two whole eggs and one yolk, and a little salt. Mix the whole softly together, not to break the almonds ; butter an oven pan of eighteen inches long, and twelve broad; put in the gouffre, and spread it equally with the blade of a large knife ; then with a fork arrange the almonds equally; strew over with fine fillets of