[ 644 ] GAS GAS Directions for use. Choose a place for fixing the apparatus ^vhere there is an easy communication, either with a chimney or the external air, to carry off, hy means of a pipe from the top of the roaster, the smell and heat occasioned by cooking. Roasting. Hang the meat over the centre of the burner to prevent the fat from dropping on the lights. If necessary, in consequence of the breadth of the joint, use the two pieces of tin provided for this purpose. Place a basin or dish under the dripping-pan to receive the dripping. Light the gas, and turn it on until the flame is about three-eighths of an inch in height. Allow the same time as for cooking by a coal fire. To backen a joint, or keep it hot iot any length of time, lower the flame to a blue light, and open the door of the roaster about one inch. Broiling is done ou a gridiron, or a pan with a convex bottom, which is placed over an ap- paratus with a gauze top. For frying use the common frying-pan. This part of the apparatus, although extremely simple, is highly philoso- phical, the writer taking the idea from Sir Humphry Davy's safety lamp, and the name it is known by is " the gauze burner." It is admirably adapted to supersede coke or charcoal stoves ; and any number of these fireplaces can be fitted up in a kitchen, so that if room permit a dozen or a score of pots may be boiling and stewing each on its own fire; while to make one boil fiercely, and another simmer slowly, no labour with poker and tongs is required, all that is necessaiy being a small touch of the tap, by which every fire in the range may be made to burn with different degrees of intensity. Baking may be performed at the same time with roasting by suspending the meat from the pierced iron shelf, placing what is to be baked upon that shelf, and putting it over the bright tin plate. If it is required to bake only place the dishes as near the burner as it is necessary. In all cases place the dishes in the tin pan, to prevent the syrup, should it boil over, from dropping on what is under. Steaming. Fill the boiler with water ; light the gas, but do not suffer the flame to touch the bottom of the boiler; place the meat in the oval steamer, and allow rather more time than for boiling. The provisions cooked in this part of the apparatus are very superior to those boiled in water, and a great variety can be cooked in one vessel, namely, puddings, meat, poultry, ham, fish, and vegetables. Each will be produced perfectly free from any flavour but its own, thus proving the excellency of this method, as not extracting the virtues from the viands, and materially lessening labour in cooking. In using any part of the apparatus always observe to have your light ready before the gas is turned on. The cardinal virtues of cookery are cleanliness, frugality, and nourishment: by cleanliness you insure all you require. The economy of this method of cooking is great. Of course there is no system, however good, which will not admit of mismanagement. We have known numerous instances of servants not accustomed to cooking who have used this apparatus, and become excellent cooks. The best material for making the apparatus of is tin. Heat spreads, partly by being shot or radiated like light from one body to another, depending on the condition of their surfaces. A black surface, for instance, will radiate away 100° of its heat in the same time that a bright surface will radiate 12°. The property of absorbing heat depends upon the colour of the substance, and, as a general rule, the dark colours, namely, those that absorb most light, absorb most heat. Dr Franklin laid pieces of cloth of different colours on snow, and during a given period, in which the sun was shining on them, he noted this in the dif- ferent depths to which they sunk. The doc- trines of radiant heat make us aware of the importance of having vessels of polished metal for containing liquids, or anything which we desire to keep warm; hence the importance of the cooking apparatus being made of a non- conducting material. It is of advantage that the bottom and sides of the boiler be black, and the case which contains the vessel should be bright, because it has to confine the heat. The writer would caution his friends against using any apparatus the outside of which is made of cast or sheet iron. Let him impress upon, his readers the importance of keeping all parts of the apparatus clean, as being the means of economising the consumption of gas, and performing all the operations of cooking in a much superior manner. We have occasionally been asked how it is that some persons using the apparatus cannot brown pastry or cook a York- shire pudding to their satisfaction. The reason has been the want of cleanliness. My reply has been that my cook can do all this, and with an apparatus which has been in use for at least twenty years; in fact, the Yorkshire pudding can be done in a much superior style, because we can insure its freedom from ashes, or the chance of a cinder falling into it. In a climate so variable as our own, and where the cost of fuel is necessarily large, its economy is a matter of interesting considera- tion, connected as it is with so many of the comforts and necessaries of life. It is no wonder, therefore, that much attention has been directed to ascertain the means of procuring