0 YD DAB iinderstood to rest between 40" or 50° of I'ahrenheit's thermometer. New-made cyder should, therefore, be put into a cellar according to this rule; the fermentation will then go ou ■with due regulation. When the liquor appears tolerably clear to the eye, and has a piquant vinous sharpness on the tongue, then the least hissing noise heard in the fermentingliquor in this state shows that the place in which it stands is too warm, and that air must be admitted. This is the critical moment for racking the liquor, which is done by draw- ing off the pure part into open vessels, which must be placed in a more cool situation for a day or two, after which it may again be barreled, and placed in some moderately cool situation for the winter. In racking ifc is advisable that the stream from the racking cock be small, and that the receiving tub be but a small depth below the cock, lest, by exciting a violent motion of the parts of the liquor, another fermentation be brought up. The casks into which the liquor is put, whenever racked off, should always be previously thoroughly scalded and dried again, and each should want several gallons of being full, to expose a larger surface to the air. Having attended to these rules so far, the cyder ■will require very little further attention beyond filling up the vessels every two or three weeks, to supply the waste by the insensible fermenta- tion, until the beginning of the succeeding March, at which time it may be reasonably expected the cyder will be bright, pure, and in a fit state for its final racking. This should be done in fair weather; but should the cyder not prove as bright and of as good a colour as desired, this is the time for applying some innocent remedy. The best method is by putting 2 lbs. of lump sugar into a hogshead of cyder. If you wish the cyder to be of a higher colour than what the fruit gives it melt 1 lb. of loaf sugar in a stewpan over a clear fire, stirring it fre- quently until it comes to a very dark brown colour; then take it off the fire, and as it cools add some cyder thereto by little and little, con- tinuing to stir it till it becomes a thin uniform fluid. About a pint of this colouring to a hogs- head of cyder is sufficient. Soon after the spring racking the casks may be gradually stopped by first laying the cork on the bunghole, and in the course of a few days forcing it very tightly into it, covering it over with melted resin or any other similar sub- stance. Bottling the cyder.- This should be done a month after the spring rackings, when the liquor has acquired in the cask its highest degree of perfection ; then, when the weather is fair, the barometer high, and the wind in a nprtberlv point, let the bottles be filled, setting tliera by uncorked until the morning; then let the corks be driven very tightly into the necks of the bottles, tied down with small strong twi.ne or wire, and well secured with melted resin, or other material of the same nature. CYPRUS WINE. The vineyard called La Commanderie, from belonging to the Knights of Malta, produces the best wine. It is very red when new; at the end of the year it becomes yellow, and gets lighter by age. It surpasses all the Muscats of the Archipelago. Next a Muscat, surpassing all the same kinds in Italy. It is white, but increases in colour and thickness by age. After sixty years it is as thick as julep. The other wines are very good. The Greeks in Cyprus at the birth of a child bury a jar of wine in the earth, which they dig up at the marriage of the same child. This wine is called Vin de Famille: it is exquisite. The surplus which is not used is sold to Europeans. The wine is carried in pitched skins, which give it a disagreeable flavour at first; but it ceases by keeping. CYPRUS WINE, ARTIFICIAL. To four gallons of water put one of the juice of white elderberries expressed gently, and passed through a sieve without bruising the kernels ; then add SO lbs. of lump sugar and f oz. of cloves ; boil them half an hour, and skim all the time. When clear pour it into a tub to cool, and fer- ment it with ale yeast on a toast for three days. After this put it into a cask, with 1 lb. of split and stoned raisins, in the sun, and when, the fermentation ceases add five pints of the best French brandy. CYTHEREAN PERFUME. This delicious perfume is made by mixing together essence of violets, ^ oz.; essence of jasmine, i oz.; essence of tuberose, ^ oz.; essence of clove gillyflower, J oz.; oil of roses, 4 drops ; oil of neroli, ^drachm; essence of ambergris, 5 drops ; musk, ^ grain; camphor, 1 grain; and spirit of wine, 1 pint. Strain through blotting paper. D DABS : To Boil. Cut off the fins, nick the brown side under the head, and take out the entrails ; then dry the fish with a cloth, and boil them in salt and water. Serve with shrimp, cockle, or muscle sauce, and garnish with pickled cabbage. DABS : To Fry. Put oil, rendered lard, or dripping into a frying-pan sufficient to cover the fish; let the fat boil before the fish is put in, dry the fish well with a cloth, and flour it. When fried lay it on a cloth to drain. DABS : To Stew, Clean the dabs and eat