[ 535 ] FUM FUR FUMIGATION, if intended merely to over- come unpleasant smells, or to raise an agreeable perfume, may be thus effected :—Powder equal quantities of olibanum, amber, and mastich, and one-third of the same quantities of storax and benzoin; mix well together, and sprinkle a little on red-hot coals. Fumigation for disinfecting rooms where con- tagious or infectious diseases have occurred may be thus effected, previously removing all metallic articles and coloured furniture :—Cany common salt, 3 ozs.; black manganese and oil of vitriol, of each 1 oz.; water, 2 ozs.; mixed in a cup through the apartments of the sick; or the apartments intended to be fumigated, where sickness has been, may be shut up for an hour or two, and then opened. Fumigation with tar, which often affords great relief to persons suffering from coughs and affections of the air passages, is made thus Mix together 1 lb. of Norway tar and \ oz. of carbonate of potash, and keep the whole heated in a tin vessel over a spirit lamp. FUR. Fur is of various kinds, and very differing in beauty and value. The ermine, called by way of pre eminence " the preciovs ermine," is found almost exclusively in the cold regions of Europe and Asia. The stoat, which, iu fact, is identical with the ermine, but tl.e fur of which is greatly inferior to that of the European and Asiatic animal, is found in North America. The fur of the ermine is of a pure whiteness throughout, with the exception of tlie tip of the tail, which is black ; and the spotted appearance of ermine skins, by which they are peculiarly known, is produced by fastening these black tips at intervals on the skins. The sable is a native of Northern Europe and Siberia. The siuns of best quality are procured by the Samoieds, and in Yakutsk, Kamtschatka, and Russian Lapland: those of the darkest colour are the most esteemed. Martens are found in North America, as well as in Northern Asia and the mountains of Kamtschatka. The American skins are generally the least valued, but many among them are rich, and of a beautiful dark- brown olive colour. The fiery fox, so called from its brilliant red colour, is taken near the north-eastern coast of Asia, and its fur is much valued, both for its colour and fineness, in that quarter of the world. Nutria skins are obtained from South America, and the greater part of the importations in this country come from the states of the Rio de la Plata. These skins are of recent introduction, having first become an article of commerce in 1810. The fur is chiefly used by hat manufacturers as a substitute for beaver. Sea-otter skins were first sought for their fur in the early part of the eighteenth century, when they were brought to Western Europe from the Aleutian and Kui-ile Islandg, where, as well as in Behring's Island, Kamt- schatka, and the neighbouring American shores, sea-otters are found in great numbers. The fur of the young animal is of a beautiful brown colour, but when older the colour becomes jtt hlack. The fur is exceedingly fine, soft, and close, and bears a silky gloss. Fur-seals are found in great numbers in the colder latitudes of the southern hemisphere. South Georgia, in 55° S. lat., was explored by Captain Cook in 1771, and immediately thereafter was resorted to by the colonists of British America, who conveyed great numbers of seal-skins thence to China, where very high prices were obtained. The South Shetland Islands, in 63° S. lat., were greatly resorted to by seals, and soon after the discovery of these islands in 1818 great numbers were taken. In 1821 and 1822 the number of seal-skins taken on these islands aloi:e amounted to 320,000. Bears of various kinds and colours, many varieties of foxes, beavers, racoons, badgers, minks, lynxes, mush-rats, rabbits, hares, ai d squirrels are procured in North America. Of all the American varieties the fur of the blaik fox, sometimes called the silver fox, is the mo:-t valuable. Next to that in value is the fur of tl e red fox, which is exported to China, where it is used for trimmings, linings, and robes, which are ornamented in spots or waves with the black fur of the paws of the same animal. The fur of the silver fox is also highly esteemed. This is a scarce animal, inhabiting the woody country below the falls of the Columbia river. It has long thick fur of a deep lead colour, intermingled with long hairs white at the top, forming a lustrous silver grey, whence the animal derives its name. The hides of bisons (improperly called buffaloes), of the sheep of the RocKy Mountains, and of various kinds of deer, form part of the fur trade of North America; and sometimes the skin of the uhite arctic fox and of the polar bear are found in the packs brought to the European traders by the most northern tribes of Indians. There is but one species of fur •which is peculiar to England, the silver-tipped rabbit of Lincolnshire. The colour of the fur is grey of different shades, mixed with longer hairs tipped with white. This fur is but little used in Eng- land, but meets with a ready sale in Russia and China. The dark-coloured skins are preferred in the former country, and the lighter-coloured in China. Furs and woollens should not be laid by for the summer months without having the dust well shaken out of them, and care taken that they are quite free from damp; for dust and moisture are the great foes to be guarded