COD COD [ 325 ] prepared liquor, and boil tlie whole again a few minutes ; then take them out carefully, and put them on a sieve to drain. When dry flour them, and set them to boil over a good fire, but not too near. Serve with lobster, shrimp, or oyster sauce. COD (en Dauphin). Your cod being pro- perly prepared, marinate it for a couple of hours in sweet oil, with salt, pepper, scallions, bay leaf, parsley, and garlic; then pass an iron skewer through the eyes, the middle of the body, and bring it out at the tail, making it in the form of a dolphin; place it in a baking pan, baste it with marinade, and bake it. When sufficiently done take out the skewer, put it on a dish, and pour over it the following ragout:— Boil up separately three carps' roes and some asparagus heads, and then put them into a stewpan, with a little butter, mushrooms, parsley, and scallions ; do them over the fire, and add a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, and the same of soupe maigre. When the ragout is sufficiently done thicken it with the yolks of three eggs and some cream. COD (with Heebs). Prepare a cod, and lay it in salt and water. When it has been in an hour place it in a table dish, with sweet herbs ready cooked and butter. Season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and spices in powder; sprinkle the dish with dripping; moisten it with a bottle of white wine; baste it frequently with melted butter, and bake it. When done squeeze the juice of two lemons over it. COD PIE. Lay a fine piece of fresh cod in salt for several hours; then wash it well; season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace ; place it in a dish, with a little butter and some good stock; lay a crust over, and bake it. When done pour in a sauce made as follows :— A spoonful of stock, ^ pint of cream, flour, and butter; grate in a little nutmeg and lemon-peel, with a few oysters. Boil the whole once. COD (in Salt Water). The cod being properly cleaned and prepared rub it all over with lemon juice, and put into the fish kettle, in salt and water, two or three bay leaves, an equal number of cloves of garlic, some slices of onion, parsley, and a glass of verjuice. Let it stand over the fire, taking care that it does not boil until sufficiently done; then drain, and serve it on a napkin, garnished with parsley. Serve with it any fish sauce you think proper. COD, SALT." The flesh of good salt cod is very white, and the flakes large ; the skin is very dark, almost black, and before it is dressed it should be soaked in milk and water, or water alone for several hours ; if very dry and salt a whole day will not be too long. When you think the salt sufficiently soaked out put the fish into a fish kettle with plenty of cold water, and set it on the fire ; when nearly boiling skim it, and let it simmer gently till done. Serve it with egg sauce, and garnish your dish with parsnips or potatoes. To make the following dishes the fish should be previously parboiled. COD, SALT (a lAnglaise). Cut the fish in pieces, and put them in a stewpan, with melted butter and a glass of broth maigre; cover them closely, and let them stew. Melt some butter in an equal quantity of cream, add nut- meg grated, and when well mixed together put it into your dish with the cod over it. COD, SALT (au Bedree Roux). Roll a piece of butter in a little flour and powder sugar, and brown it; do some sliced onions in this. When they are a proper colour add a spoonful of vinegar to them, boil up the whole once, and pour it on some flakes of boiled salt cod. Garnish with fried parsley. COD, SALT (A LA Bobdelaise). Take an earthen dish that will bear fire, and put into it some olive oil. Butter a couple of anchovies, parsley, scallions, shallots,and garlic, all chopped small, and two or three slices of lemon; put it on the fire, and when of a proper consistence put in the fish; let it soak and boil slowly for half an hour; then grate bread over it, brown it with a salamander, and serve it hot. COD, SALT (with Capees and Anchovies). Boil the cod as usual, and when done drain and dish it. Pour over it some caper and anchovy sauce. COD, SALT (A la Ceeme). Soak and boil the fish A la Maitre d'Hotel; melt some butter in a stewpan, with some flour, pepper, nutmeg, and garlic; thicken it with the yolks of three eggs ; and add a glass of cream and some chopped parsley. Put the flakes of cod into this sauce; let them boil gently for a short time, and serve quite hot; or, when you have put the cod into the sauce, bread and bake it. Take off all the fat before you serve, and add mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, and asparagus heads. COD, SALT, CROQUETTES. Cut some ready-dressed salt cod into dice, and put them into a stewpan, with \ lb. of butter, a spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and half a glass of cream. Put it on the fire; let it boil up once, and stir it, that all may be well mixed, and then let it stand. When cold divide it into 15 or 20 heaps; shape and bread them. Break 4 or 5 eggs, season and beat them well, dip the croquettes into it, bread them a second time, and just before they are wanted fry them in very hot lard. Let them be of a nice colour. Lay them on a cloth a minute, and then place them in a pyramidal form on the bed of fried parsley.