ARN [ 40 ] AEG Meat. Beef, mutton, veal, lamb. Poultry and game. Turkeys, turkey poults, Guinea fowl, green geese, fowls, spring chickens, ducklings (no wild fowl), pigeons, rabbits, wild rabbits, leverets. Fish. Brill, cod, cockles, carp, crabs, conger eels, dabbs, John Dory, eels, flounders, herrings, lobsters, lings, mullets, mussels, oysters, perch, plaice, salmon, soles, shrimps, sturgeon, skate, tench, turbot, and whiting. Vegetables. Cabbages, colewort, broccoli, greens, spinach, French beans (forced), carrots (forced), green peas (foreign), parsnips, beet, pota- toes, onions, young onions, turnips, leeks, horse- radish, lettuce, endive, chervil, celery, radishes, watercresses, small salad, artichokes (foreign), asparagus, sea-kale, rhubarb, cucumbers, mush- rooms, and herbs. Fruit. Pine-apples, grapes, peaches and nec- tarines (forced), cherries (forced), strawberries (forced), apples, pears, oranges, lemons, raisins, almonds, nuts, walnuts, chestnuts. ARGAND LAMP. This is so named after its inventor, a Frenchman. The wick being cylindrical admits air to both sides of a very thin sheet of flame, and, consequently, renders the combustion, or burning, of the oil much more complete than where a common solid wick is employed, and the air can only reach the out- side of the flame. The wick of the moderator lamp is like that of the Argand lamp, and differs from it chiefly in having the oil forced up to the wick, whereas, in the Argand lamp, the oil reaches the wick only by its own gravity. The management of a lamp of any kind is rather a difficult business, therefore great care should be taken in the purchase, to obtain one from a maker of known reputation, for the cheap ones, particularly those picked up as bargains in brokers' shops, are always out of repair. The principle of the Argand lamp is, that a free current of air should be drawn through the centre of the flame, and to ensure this, it is necessary to clean the lamp frequently, and remove any dust or impurities from the oil or charcoal of the wick, which collects round the small holes in the rim, through which the cold air is drawn. If the lamp is used every night it should be cleaned daily. The methodical mode is this:—Remove the shade carefully before you soil your hands with the oil. Pro- vide a basin of warm water (a little above blood heat), and in this first wash the glass chimney, then pour the oil from the fountain, and remove any sediment from about the brass work. Screw up the wick, and if it is not long enough for the time it may probably be re- quired to burn, replace it with a fresh one by means of the stick. Having washed all the brass work, wipe the parts carefully, screw everything in its former position, and take care in replacing the wick that the small notch at the side of the brass enters the groove which is sunk to receive it; turn it up and down once or twice to make sure that it works freely; then prime it (that is, singe the top), replace the fountain (filled with oil), chimney and shade; the lamp is ready for use. Purchase the best oil—the inferior qualities emit an offensive smell, and produce so much sediment that the delicate work of the lamp is quickly clogged, and the current of air impeded, which causes it to burn dimly. Occasionally it is necessary to wash the shade, which should be done in clean water, lukewarm, with the admixture of a little soda, which removes all stains, and does not injure the appearance of the ground glass. The glass chimneys will sometimes crack with the heat, particularly in frosty weather. This may be prevented by scoring a small notch in the glass at top and bottom. ARM, BROKEN. When the arm is broken between the shoulder and the elbow the patient should be seated on a chair near a table, or any- thing of a convenient height; the elbow bent, and supported by a pillow placed between the ribs and the elbow, and a surgeon sent for as quickly as possible. If the attendance of a surgeon cannot be obtained for some hours, the patient's dress should be removed by ripping it open at the seams, as all attempts to draw out the patient's arm from the garment will only cause extra pain and irritation. The patient should then be put to bed, and the hand of the fractured arm be placed across his body, and the elbow and upper part of the arm sup- ported by a pillow. If the arm is broken be- tween the elbow and the wrist, the patient's arm is to be bent as before with the baud and fore- arm resting on a pillow. If there is likely to be any delay befoi'e a surgeon can be procured, let the patient be put to bed, the clothes being removed as before directed, and the whole ai'm be rested on a pillow placed by the side of the patient, the elbow being slightly bent, and the back of the hand upwards. In both cases the parts about the fracture should be enveloped in a cloth wetted in cold water, and be kept constantly wetted, for the purpose of checking the swelling and inflammation, which would in- terfere with the surgeon's setting the bone. ARNATTO. Arnatto, or annatto, a red dye- ing drug, produced from the pulp of the seed- vessels of a shrub [Bixa orellana) which grows spontaneously in the East and West Indies. The principal consumption is by painters and dyers ; and Scott's nankeen dye is arnatto in alkaline lye. Dutch farmers use it to colour butter, and Gloucester and other kinds of cheese are coloured with it. The bark is manu-