[ 234 ] CAR OAR and some ambergris. Knead all into a paste, malce it up into any forms you please, and when they come out of the oven strew powder sugar. CARAWAY COMFITS. Take some fine caraway seeds, sift all the dust from them, and have a large copper preserving-pan about two feet wide, and with 2 handles and 2 pieces of iron, made as a ring on each side; then you must have a pulley fixed to a beam, and a cord with a hook at each end, so as to fix it at each side of the pan to let it sling; then have some fine starch, as white as you can get, and just soften it. Boil some syrup a quarter of an hour and mix it with starch ; take some gum arable, put it into some water, then put that into another pan, and make it just warm. Have an iron pot with a charcoal fire under the large pan, but not too hot; only just keep the pan warm. Have a large tub to put your pot of fire at the bottom, and your large pan must be on the top; put the caraway seeds into your pan, add a large ladleful of gum arable, rub them with your hands till you find they are dry ; then put a ladleful of starch and syrup, and do the same over your pan of fire until you find they are all dry. Put the gum only three or four times to them at first, then the starch and sugar, and boil your syrup more when you find they coat with it, and not so much starch. When you have dried them seven or eight times put them into your sieve. Put them into the stove, do them the next day, and so successively for six or seven days. CARAWAY PUFFS. Beat the whites of 4 eggs to a solid froth ; add to them some sifted sugar and some caraway seeds pounded very fine. Put in the mixture with a spoon, in pieces about the size of a shilling, as high as you can, on sheets of damp wafer-paper, and bake them in a slack oven. CARAWAY WATER. Take 3 gallons of proof spirits and ^ gallon of water; add to them i lb. of bruised caraway seeds, distil and sweeten the juice with 1^ lb. of brown sugar. CARBONATE OF POTASH is useful for correcting acidity of the stomach, and is not so weakening as carbonate of soda. It may be taken in doses of from 5 to 30 grains. One of the most pleasant of effervescent draughts is made by dissolving 20 grains of carbonate of potash in the third part of a tumbler of water, and 17 grains of citric acid in another third. When dissolved mix the solutions, and drink while effervescing. If tartaric acid, instead of citric is used, 18 grains are required. CARBONATE OF SODA may be used for the same purposes as stated of carbonate of potash. If employed in making an effervescent draught, 10 grains of citric or 11 grains of tar- taric acid are required for 20 grains of the carbonate. A tea-spoonful of either of these carbonates should be added to the water in which cabbages, peas, kidney beans, or other vegetable desirable to have of a green colour are boiled. As much of the dry powder of these carbonates as would lie upon a threepenny piece will, if put into the tea-pot, render the hardest water efficient in drawing out the strength of the tea. To soften the water—that is, to decompose the calcareous salts which otherwise would take the soda fx'om the soap and cause its fatty portion to curdle, and thus waste it—washerwomen use a coarse subcarbonate of soda. Housemaids ought to use it and sand for scorning floors or other woodwork not painted. For washing, into 1 gallon of water put a handful of soda, and f lb. of soap. Boil them together until the soap is dissolved, and then pour out the liquor for use. This mode of preparing this detergent for washing will be found far preferable to the usual mode of putting the soda into the water, or of adding, as is usual, a lump to the water in the boiler, in consequence of which so many ironmoulds are produced in many kinds of clothes. In the washing of blankets this mode of proceeding will be found admirable, and render them beautifully white. CARBUNCLE. See Abscess and Boils, where much is suggested applicable to the ti'eat- ment of this collection of matter, which differs from them chiefly in having a greater tendency to gangrene, or mortification, as it is popularly termed. In carbuncle there is great heat and pain on some part, very frequently the back of the neck, where a pimple soon appears attended by excessive itching. The tumour inci'eases in size, becomes purple, a dark matter is discharged, and a slough appears ; several openings appear; a green, ofi'ensive matter is discharged, and gangrene comes on. This is the progress of the disease if not timely checked, and to do so we recommend this treatment, given by Dr. Macaulay, in his " Dictionary of Medicine :"— The tumour is to be treated with fomentations and emollient poultices, till there be a con- siderable degree of softness about it, and when this is the case it should be very freely opened, to allow the matter and sloughs to escape. Two deep and free incisions, crossing each other, are to be made in the carbuncle from side to side of it, and it is astonishing to see how soon these extensive wounds heal. Extensive though they be they are quite necessary; and nothing can be more injurious, or tend more to lengthen out the disease, and even to induce a fatal termina- tion, than the insignificant openings which form of themselves, which only allow the thinner matter to escape, while the sloughs are confined within, and unhealthy actions are going on. Large poultices are to be continued for some time, and as the discharge is copious and filthy,