CUT C 897 ] CUT Tne same observation holds with respect to ir.ternal applications. These only promote the cure of wounds as far as they tend to prevent a fever, or to remove any cause that might obstruct or impede the operations of nature. It is nature alone that cures wounds. All that art can do is to remove obstacles, and to put the parts in such a condition as is the most favour- able to nature's efforts. With this simple view we shall consider the treatment of wounds, and endeavour to point out such steps as ought to be taken to facilitate their cure. The first thing to be done when a person has received a wound is to examine whether any foreign body be lodged in it, as wood, stone, iron, lead, glass, dirt, bits of cloth, or the like. These, if possible, if it can be conveniently done, ought to be extracted, and the wound cleaned before any dressings are applied. When that cannot be effected with safety, on account of the patient's weakness or loss of blood, they must be suffered to remain in the wound, and afterwards extracted when he is more able to bear it. When a wound penetrates into any of the cavities of the body, as the breast, the bowels, &c., or when any considerable blood-vessel is cut, a skilful surgeon ought immediately to be called, otherwise the patient may lose his life. But sometimes the discharge of blood is so great that if it be not stopped the patient may die, even before a surgeon^ though at no great distance, can arrive. In this case something must be done by those who are present. If the wound be in any of the limbs the bleeding may generally be stopped by applying a tight ligature or bandage round the member, a little above the wound. The best method of doing this is to put a strong broad garter or silk handkerchief round the part, but so slack as easily to admit a strong piece of stick to be put under it, which must be twisted, in the same manner as a coun- tryman does a cart-rope to secure his loading, till the bleeding stops. Whenever this is the case he must take care to twist it no longer, as straining it too much might occasion an inflam- mation of the parts, and endanger a gangrene. In parts where this bandage cannot be ap- plied various other methods may be tried to stop the bleeding, as the application of styptics, astringents, &c. Cloths dipped in a solution of blue vitriol in water, or the styptic water of the dispensatories, may be applied to the woimd. When these cannot be obtained strong spirits of wine may be used. Some recommend the agaric of the oak as preferable to any of the ether styptics; and, indeed, it deserves consider- able encomiums. It is easily obtained, and ought to be kept in every family in case of accidents. A piece of it must he laid upon the wound, and covered with a good deal of lint, above which a bandage may be applied so tightly as to keep it firmly on. Though spirits, tinctures, and hot balsams may be used in order to stop the bleeding from small vessels when it is excessive, they are improper at other times. They do not promote, but retard the cure, and often change a simple wound into an ulcer. People imagine, because hot balsams congeal the blood, and seem, as it were, to solder up the wound, that they therefore heal it; but this is only a deception. They may, indeed, stop the flowing blood by searing the mouths of the vessels; but, by rendering the parts callous, they obstruct the cure. In slight wounds, which do not penetrate much deeper than the skin, the best application is a bit of the common black sticking-plaster. This keeps the sides of the wound together, and prevents the air from hurting it, which is all that is necessary. When a wound penetrates deeply the edges of it, if a clean incised wound, ought to be brought in contact, and retained in that position by means of slips of adhesive plaster, when in all probability it will become glued together by what surgeons term the ad- hesive inflammation. If a deep irregular wound from blunted instruments it is not safe to keep the Hps quite close; this keeps in the matter, and is apt to make the wound fester. In this case the best way is to fill the wound with soft lint, commonly called caddis; it, however, must not be stuffed in too hard, otherwise it will do hurt. The lint may be covered with a cloth dipped in oil, or spread with the common wax plaster or poultice, and the whole must be kept on by a proper bandage as circumstances may point out. The first dressing onght to continue on for at least two days, after which it may be removed, and fresh lint applied as before. If any part of the first dressing sticks so closely as not to be removed with ease or safety to the patient, it may be allowed to continue, and fresh lint dipped in sweet oil laid over it. This will soften it so as to make it come off easily at the next dressing; afterwards the wound may be dressed twice a day in the same manner till it is quite healed. Those who are fond of salves or ointments may, after the wound has become very superficial, dressit with the yeWovibasilicum; and if fungous, or what is called proud flesh should rise in the wound, it may be checked by mixing with the ointment a little burnt alum or red precipitate of mercury, or by touching the proud flesh with caustic, or it may be kept down by a compress. When a wound is greatly inflamed the most proper application is a poultice of bread and