[ 389 ] CUR CUR it into the vessel, and add a imit of brandy and a pint of raspberries. Stop it down, and let it stand three months. CURRANT WINE (2). Take 30 lbs. of either red or white currants, and an equal quantity of black currants and small cherries not stoned, and leaving on the stalks ; put the whole into a cask, and bruise them with a laige stick; then boil half a quartern of juniper berries in five or six pints of water, to which add ^ lb. or 1 lb. of honey, to make the juniper berries ferment. When they have fermented mix thera with the juice of the fruits ; stir them together two or three times during twenty-four hours, then fill up the cask with water, and close it. This quantity of fruit will make 150 bottles of excellent wine. If you desire to make it stronger put in a pint or two of brandy. CURRANTS : To Ice. Take fresh currants in bunches, and have ready the white of an egg well beaten to a froth ; dip them in it, lay them abroad, sift double-refined sugar pretty thickly over them, and let them drv in a stove or oven. CURRANTS, BLACK (Ratafia of). Take ]^ gallon of brandy, 1 quart of river water, 2 lbs. of black currants, 3 lbs. of crushed sugar, 1 lb. of bitter cherries, 6 ozs. of black cuiTant leaves, and 1 drachm of cinnamon or cloves ; bruise the leaves, fruit, and spice, and then put them into the brandy to infuse for a month ; dissolve the sugar in the water, and when the ratafia is drawn off mix the syrup with it; then filter and bottle it. CURRANTS, CANpiED. Boil the fruit in clarified sugar for preserving, take it out of the syrup, and drain it upon a sieve; sift over it through a lawn sieve till quite white pounded loaf sugar; place it in a cool oven, and turn and dust it with sugar till dry. CURRANTS, GROCERS'. These are really a variety of grape, and the vine that produces them is known to gardeners as the Zante or Black Corinth. Currant, in fact, is a corrup- tion of the word Corinth. For storing new carrants should be purchased, which they may be in October and through the winter. CURRANTS, PRESERVED. Take the seeds and stalks from whatever quantity of currants you intend to use, of which a fourth part must be white currants; put them into a preserving pan with a glass of water, and let them boil up until the fruit bursts; then strain the juice twice. Clarify and boil to crack, or casse, some sugar (an equal weight to the fruit), and pour the j nice on it; boil them together a quarter of an hour, and, having skimmed it well, pour it into pots. CURRANTS PRESERVED DRY. Stone your currants, and tie them up in bunches; to every pound of currants boil 2 lbs. of sugar till it blows very strong; dip in tlie currants, let them boil verj' fast till the sugar rises almost to the top of the pan, let them settle, skim them, and set them by till the next day ; then drain them and lay them out, taking care to spread the sprigs that they may not dry clogged together; dust them very much, and dry them in a hot stove. CURRANTS PRESERVED IN JELLY. Stone your currants, clip off the black tops, and clip them from the stalks ; to every pound boil Of lbs. of sugar till it blows very strong ; slip in the currants, give them a quick boil, take them from the fire, and let them settle a little; then give them another boil, and put in a pint of currant jelly, drawn as directed, till you see the jelly will flake from the skimmer; then remove the jelly from the fire, let it settle a little, then skim, and put it into glasses. CURRANTS PRESERVED LIQUID IN BUNCHES. For this purpose either red or white currants may be used, only be careful not to mix them, and choose those bunches which have the largest currants; take out the seeds very carefully with the nib of a pin ; boil clarified sugar (1 lb. to each pound of fruit) to ball, or hoiilet, take the pan from the fire, put in the currants, stir them with a skimmer, taking care tliat the fruit does not burst, cover the pan, and give the whole one boil ; sliim the preserve lightly, aiad put it into glasses; do not cover them till the next day. CURRANTS, PRESERVED (for Tartb). Put 1 lb. of sugar into a preserving pan for every \ \ lb. of currants, with a sufficient quantity of currant juice to dissolve the sugar; when it boils skim it, put in the currants, and boil them till they are very clear; put them into a jar, cover them with brandy paper, and keep them in a diy place. CURRANTS, RATAFIA OF. Take 2 quarts of brandy, 2 quarts of currant juice, 2 lbs. of crushed sugar, 1 drachm of pounded cinnamon, and the same of cloves. Take the seeds from the currants before you press out the juice, rectify the brandy, and then add the cinnamon, cloves, and juice. When it has stood a month draw it off, dissolve the sugar in it, and then filter the ratafia. CURRANTS, RED (Preserved in Bxjnches). Having stoned your currants tie six or seven bunches together with a thread to a piece of split deal about the length of a finger; put double-refined sugar, equal in weight to your currants, into a preserving pan with a little water, and boil it till the sugar flies; then put the currants in, give them a boil up, and cover them till the next day; then take them out, and either dry them or put thera in glasses, with the syrup boiled up with a little of the juice of