EGG EGG [ 463 ] I butter, heat it as hot as for fritters; stir it with a stick till it runs round very quickly; then break an egg into the middle, and turn it round with the stick till it is of the consistence of a poached egg; the whirling of the butter will make it round like a ball; then take it up with a slice, and put it into a warm pipkin or dish; set it leaning before the fire to keep hot; they will keep half an hour and yet be soft, so you can make as many as you please. You may serve them with fried or roasted collops. EGGS, FRIED (with Marigolds). Strew blanched, minced marigolds thickly over the eggs, and powder them lightly with nutmeg, pepper, and salt as they are poached in the frying-pan ; do them very slowly; do not turn them if they are too much spread; cut them with a cutter all of one size ; dish them on fried sippets that have been steeped in gravy or cream, and powdered with marigolds ; dish over fried parsley, and garnish with fried mari- gold flowers. EGGS, FRIED (with Parsley). Boil some eggs hard ; fry and slice them with olive oil and butter; brown a little butter in a pan with some flour dusted on it, add a little water and salt, let it boil, and pour it on the eggs. Garnish with fried parsley. EGGS, FRIED (in Paste). Make choice of the smallest eggs, poach them when trimmed •and cold, and carefully dry them in a cloth; then prepare a paste the same as for rissoles, into which lay the eggs; cut them the same shape, fry them in the same manner, and serve them very hot on a napkin. EGGS FROTHED. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four (set aside the remaining whites), with a spoonful of water, some salt, sugar, and the juice of a lemon; fry this, and then put it on a dish ; whip the four whites which were set aside to a froth with sugar, and place it over the fried eggs; bake in a Dutch oven, or with a high cover fitted for the purpose. EGGS AU GRATIN. Mix together some bread crumbs, butter, a chopped anchovy, parsley, scallions, and shallot, all shred small, and the yolks of three eggs ; put this on a dish that will bear the fire, set it over a gentle one till the gratin adheres to it; then break eight eggs on it; season with pepper and salt ; keep it over the fire till sufficiently done; pass a salamander over it, and serve. EGGS WITH GRAVY. Poach some eggs in water w-ith a little vinegar in it; cut the whites round neatly ; lay the eggs in a dish, and pour into the dish some clear relishing gravy. EGGS, HASHED. Boil the eggs hard, slice them, fry an onion sliced in butter, and put in the eggs, a little good gravy, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Serve them hot. EGGS AND LETTUCE. Scald some cab- bage lettuces, and squeeze them well; then slice them, and toss them up with butter; season them with salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; set them over a gentle fire in a saucepan with butter, and let them stew for half an hour; then skim off the fat, add to them a fish cullis, and lay them in dishes; poach some eggs in butter, lay them upon the lettuce, and serve on plates. EGGS WITH MACAROONS. Take six eggs, and put two of the whites into a stewpan, mixing them with two macaroons, some orange flowers, and lemon peel, all shred finely, grated sugar, a little salt, and 1 oz. of melted butter ; then mix the above with the rest of the eggs, beating the whole up as if for an omelet; put it into the dish for table, and cook it in hot water au bain-marie. When the eggs are nearly done glaze with some sugar, and pass a salamander over them. EGGS A LA MODE. Take a handful of bread crumbs, simmer them in good fat broth, and when quite thick, and no liquid remains, take it off the fire; chop a good slice of bacon previously boiled to mix with it, and add a spoonful of a la mode beef sauce, not seasoned too highly, the yolks of eighteen eggs beaten up, and the whites of six, with a little pounded coriander, pepper, and salt, if the sauce does not give it taste enough; mix the whole together very well; garnish a deep stewpan all round with slices of bacon, put the prepara- tion into it, and bake it in the oven. When done turn it over gently, take off the bacon, wipe the fat with a cloth, pour the brown glaze over, and let it cool before using. EGGS A LA MODE DE PORTUGAL. Take two large lemons, and strain the juice through a sieve into an earthen pipkin ; add to this a tea-spoonful of basket salt and 2 ozs. of very fine sugar; set it over the fire, and when it boils break into it four eggs ; stir them with a silver spoon till they will not stick to the saucepan, which is a sign that they are done enough ; pour them into a soup plate, and shake over them a little very fine sugar; heat a salamander red- hot, and hold it over them, which will give them a nice gloss. EGGS WITH ONIONS AND MUSH- ROOMS. When you have boiled the eggs hard take out the yolks whole, and cut the white into slips, with some onions and mushrooms. Fry the onions and mushrooms, then add the whites, turn them about a little, dredge them with flour, and add a little mushroom catsup. Boil these up, then put in the yolks, and add pepper and salt. Let the whole