[ 29 ] APP APP age and country. Terence, in his comedy of the " Eunuch," ridicules the Roman matrons *for attempting to mend the shape of their daughters. By this practice, the action of the stomach and howels, the motion of the heart and lungs, and almost all the vital functions, are obstructed. Hence proceed indigestions, syncopes, or faint- ing fits, coughs, consumptions of the lungs, and other complaints so common among females. The feet likewise often suffer by pressure. How a small foot came to he reckoned genteel we will not pretend to say; but certain it is that this notion has made many persons lame. Almost nine-tenths of mankind are troubled with corns ; a disease that is seldom or never occasioned but by straight shoes. Corns are not only very troublesome, but by rendering people unable to walk, they may likewise be considered as the remote cause of other diseases. We often see persons who are rendered quite lame by the nails of their toes having grown into the flesh, and frequently hear of mortifica- tions proceeding from this cause. All these, and many other inconveniences attending the feet, must be imputed solely to the use of short and tight shoes. Though we hear frequently of plasters, salves, ointments, &c., for eradicating corns, yet they are never known to produce that effect. The only rational mode of proceeding is to soften the corn a little by immersion in warm water, and then to cut it carefully, and to renew this operation every week, till the scarf skin is re- duced to its original or natural thinness, after which it must be preserved from the irritating pressure of straight shoes, which had at first occasioned the painful callosity. The size and figure of the shoe ought certainly to he adapted to the foot. In children the feet are as well shaped as the hands, and the motion of the toes as free and easy as that of the fingers ; yet few persons in an advanced period of life are able to make any use of their toes ; they are generally squeezed all of a heap by narrow shoes, and often laid over one another in such a manner as to be rendered altogether incapable of motion. Nor is the high heel less hurtful than the narrow toe. A lady may seem taller for walking on her tiptoes, but she will never walk well in this manner. It strains her joints, distorts her limbs, makes her stoop, and utterly destroys all her ease and gracefulness of motion. It is entirely owing to shoes with high heels and narrow toes that not one female in ten can be said to walk well. hi fixing on the clothes due care should he taJcen to avoid all tight bandages. Garters, buckles, &c., when drawn too tight, not only prevent the free motion and use of the parts about which they are bound, but likewise obstruct the circulation of the blood, which prevents the equal nourishment and growth of these parts, and occasions various diseases. Tight bandages about the neck, as stocks, cravats, necklaces, &c., are extremely dangerous. They obstruct the blood in its course from the brain, by which means headaches, vertigoes, apoplexies, and other fatal diseases, are often occasioned. The perfection of dress is to he easy and clean. Nothing can be more ridiculous than for any one to make himself a slave to fine clothes. Such a one, and many such there are, would rather remain as fixed as a statue from morning till night than discompose a single hair or alter the position of a pin. Were we to recommend any particular pattern for dress, it would be that which is worn by the people called Quakers. They are always neat, clean, and often elegant, without anything superfluous. What others lay out upon tawdry laces, ruflles, and ribands, they bestow upon superior cleanliness. Finery is only the affectation of dress, and very often covers a great deal of dirt. We shall only add, with regard to clothing, that it ought not only to be suited to the climate, the season of the year, and the period of life, but likewise to the temperature and constitution. Robust persons are able to endure either cold or heat better than the delicate, consequently may be less attentive to their clothing. But the precise quantity of clothes necessary for any person cannot be determined by reasoning. It is entirely a matter of experience, and every man is the best judge for himself what quantity of clothes is necessary to keep him warm. The celebrated Boerhaave used to say, that nobody suffered by cold save fools and beggars; the latter not being able to procure clothes, and the former not having sense to wear them. Be this as it may, we can with the strictest truth testify, that in many cases, where the powers of medicine had been tried in vain, the patient has been cured by wearing thick shoes, a flannel waistcoat and drawers, a pair of under-stockings, or a flannel petticoat, to be worn during the cold season at least. Where warmer clothing is wanted we would recommend the fleecy hosiery to be worn next the skin. With respect to the different periods of life children should, from the birth, be habituated to light clothing, not only by day, but in bed; for nothing contributes more to form the con- stitution. Infants and children are less apt to have their perspiration checked than persons who are more advanced in life, and, therefore, less apt to catch cold. From the change of childhood to the thirty-fifth year, the strength of the vital powers, and a brisk circulation, tend very much to keep up an equal perspiration; but, after that period, the force of the circula-