CHO [ 301 ] CHO dissolved ; then take it off, and add 6 yolks of eggs, 1 pint of double cream, and f lb. of powder sugar. Pour the whole into a pan, and when cold whip it up as directed. CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. Take any quantity of chocolate, and melt it over the fire in a small pan. When melted pour it into that in which you are going to make the cream; break your yolks of eggs into it (4 eggs to every pint of cream); add some pounded loaf sugar over it; keep stirring continually. Add your cream little by little, stining and turning it till the whole is mixed properly together ; set your pan over the fire, and keep stirring with a wooden spoon till you see your composition is nearly boil- ing ; then take it off immediately, for, from the moment you set your composition over the fire till that it offers to boil, it has time to in- corporate well and thicken sufficiently without need of boiling, and should you let it boil you would risk the turning of your cream into whey on account of the yolks of eggs, which would do too much. Take great care, likewise, that your cream is fresh and sweet, for otherwise as soon as warm it will turn into curds and whey; there- fore be careful. Stir it continually from the time you set it on the fire till you take it off; then put it in the sahotiere to make it congeal after the usual manner. CHOCOLATE ICE WATER. Take 3 ozs. of chocolate, warm it, and mix with it ^ gill of syrup and ^ pint of water ; mix it well, and freeze it thickly. CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. Put i lb. of chocolate on a tin plate over a coal fire, and when it is dissolved pour it on a plate ; put to it a spoonful or two of sweet almond paste made as for macaroons, stir it in well, and then pour it on the remainder of the almond paste, in which you have mixed a tea-spoonful of pow- dered cinnamon or vanilla, or both ; beat them together well in a mortar, lay them on paper, and bake them for three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. CHOCOLATE WITH MILK OR WATER. Divide 1 lb. of chocolate into twelve parts ; take as many parts as you wish to make cups of chocolate; put it into a chocolate pot, with an equal number of cups of water; let your chocolate dissolve, mill it, and then put your chocolate pot on a gentle fire; let it boil slowly, keeping it constantly stirring; immediately before it is served mill it. To make chocolate with milk you must divide your pound of chocolate into sixteen parts. CHOCOLATE PARFAIT AMOUR. For 4 bottles of brandy take 1 lb. of the best chocolate, and chip it in small bits; add a little salt, 2 cloves, and a little cinnamon. You must infuse all in the brandy, with 2 bottles and 1 pint of water, and whites of eggs; then filter it through paper. CHOCOLATE PASTILS. Take a little chocolate, which put in a pan over the fire to melt it; stir it with a spoon ; when it is melted take \ lb. of loaf sugar pounded in a mortar and sifted, which dissolve in a little clear water. When that is done put in your chocolate. If you find the paste too thick add a little water, enough to bring it to that degree of liquidity that you may take it up on a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops, which we call pastils, of the size of a sixpence; let them dry natural!} in a cupboard, and wnen dry take them off the papers and put them in boxes. CHOCOLATE PASTIL PASTE. Melt |- oz. of gum dragon in a little water till it is quite dissolved and thick; sift it through a linen cloth, pound it in a mortar with a quarter part of white of egg, a chocolate cake bruised, and ^ pint of fine powder sugar mixed by degrees, and adding either more or less sugar according as the paste is malleable : it must be pretty firm. Form it into what flowers or designs you please, as shells, lozenges, any kind of corn or beans, &c. CHOCOLATE PUFFS. . Take i lb. of chocolate, grated, and 1 lb. of double-refined sugar, beat finely and sifted, with the whites of 2 eggs; make a paste, and have ready some more sugar to strew on the tins ; turn the rough side upwards, and bake them in a slow oven. You may form the paste into any shape, and colour it with different colours. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. Take i lb. of chocolate, which cut as small as you can, and melt it on the fire in a little water. When it is entirely melted throw it into the souffle pre- paration. CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE (Petit). Having grated \ lb. of chocolate, put it on a sheet of paper, and lay it at the opening of the oven for five minutes. In the meanwhile dilute 6 ozs. of sifted sugar with the white of 1 egg; then add to it the chocolate. When the mixture is very firm add a little more white of egg, and conclude your operation in the usual way. CHOCOLATE SWEETMEATS. Take 2 ozs. of chocolate, and break it into a little warm water ; put it on the fire, and when quite dissolved mix it with I lb. of marchpane paste, to which may be added vanilla or cinnamon; stir it up well, then spread it on wafer paper in what forms you please, and bake them in a moderate oven. If the sweetmeats be not suffi- ciently dark coloured add a little bole ammoniac. CHOCOLATE TART. Put 2 spoonsful of fine flour in a stewpan, with the yolks of 6 eggs; reserve their whites, mix these with some milk, add \ lb. of rasped chocolate, with a stick of