[ 454 ] EEL EDU therefore he gives no mean proof of his skill in the management of the human miud who makes one weakness the instrument of counteracting another." The temper of a child in the early days of its infancy, and beyond a certain period, is not easily rectified, should it unfortunately have taken a wrong bent. If every little sally of passion and impatience were instantly and properly controlled—if such things as are ad- missible were regularly permitted, and those that are improper as regularly and steadily withheld, the wily little creature would soon learn to distinguish between what is allowed and what is prohibited; but a melancholy reverse will be found if, on the other hand, no consistency regulates his management—if at one time the slightest indulgence is refused, and at another the most extravagant and even injurious cravings are satisfied, just as the whim of the parent may lead him to gratify his ill-humour by thwarting another, or to amuse his moments of ennui by playing with his child as with a monkey, and exciting it to those acts of mischief and audacity for which, in the next moment, it may suffer a severe correction. The effects of such an insensible and capricious line of conduct, and the serious consequences, must strike home to the bosom of every parent alive to his duty as at once uncharitable and inconsistent. Con- tinually undergoing either disappointment or punishment, or engaged in extorting gratifica- tions which he often triumphs at having gained by an artful display of passion, his time passes on, until at length the poor child frequently manifests a degree of ill-humour sufficient to render him the little detested tyrant of his playmates and inferiors. No one will here presume, we believe, to assert that such a mode of tampering with the education of children— an education by which it is here intended to be understood copibining the whole concourse of circumstances which form the human character- is not erroneous in the extreme; yet how fre- quently do we witness its effects in our inter- course with human life ! It may be asked. If, when children do wrong, are they to be cor- rected ? Most undoubtedly they are to be cor- rected ; that is, they are to be directed right, and prevented from doing wrong, and special care talten that this correction be correct, for these young reasoners are as expert as ourselves in detecting fallacies; and as in criminal so ought it to be in moral law-—it is better that ten naughty boys should ffo unpunished than that an innocent one should be whipped for a fault of which he is not the author. In punishing children for their faults or vices the greatest care is necessary that capri- ciousness forms no part of this moral process, and punishment for doing wrong will effect more harm than good in proportion to the fre- quency with which it is inflicted; for punishment, mental or corporeal, will be invariably and as much as possible avoided, and the dread of it will make them both liars and hypocrites. Above all things, children should be taught candour, and the undisguised declaration of their feelings; but whilst they are operated upon by the appre- hension of pain such candour and declaration of their feelings will be prevented: their chief occu- pation, under such circumstances, will be the practice of deceit and duplicity, in order to conceal the errors they have committed. No child will be candid without kindness, and it will be difficult to persuade any child that in putting him to bodily or mental torture you have his happiness at heart. EEL BROTH. Boil some small eels in a little water, with some parsley, an onion, some peppercorns, and salt according to taste; let them boil for two hours. EEL, COLLARED. Take an eel, and cut it open ; take out the bones, and cut off the head and tail; lay the eel flat, and shred sage as finely as possible ; mix with black pepper pounded, nutmeg grated, and salt; lay it all over the eel; roll it up hard in a cloth; tie it up tightly at each end; then set over the fire some water, with pepper and salt, five or six cloves, three or four blades of mace, and a bay leaf or two ; boil these with the bones, head, and tail well; put in the eel, and boil it till quite tender; take it out and boil the liquor, and when it is cold put it to the eel; do not take off the cloth till you use it. EEL, IRISH (Pickle for). Equal parts of vinegar, white wine, and water; boil the eel with mace, cloves, ginger, pepper, salt, and horseradish; take out the horseradish, and pour the liquor over the cooked eel. EEL IN JELLY. Stew a calf s foot in a quart of water, and reduce it to half; strain the sauce through a cloth, squeeze it strongly, and leave it to settle. Skin an eel, cut it into pieces, and stew them in a court bouillon of water, salt, pepper, roots of parsley, thyme, a bay leaf, cloves, the peel of a lemon, and three or four shallots. When the fish is done leave it to cool in the bouillon. A few hours before serving take the prepared calf's-foot jelly, and add to it a glass of strong white vinegar and the juice of two lemons; warm the whole and strain it through a bag, that the jelly may be transparent. Pour it warm over the eel in a long dish, placing the pieces close to each other. Garnish with slices of lemon vandyked, olives, gherkins, cherries in vinegar, &c. EEL, MARINATED (Fried). Skin an eel, cut it into pieces, and warm them for a few.