CHA CHA [ 958 ] wear a long time, and can be washed, with care, several times. It is best to choose for this purpose a stout good chintz, the colours of which should be the least likely to fade. We have seen chair covers made of brown hollaud and bound witli coloured braid ; they were extremely neat and pretty at first, but they quickly soiled and lost their colour so much in washing, that they were soon obliged to be removed. Some- times these old-fashioned chairs are to be met with at brokers', a good deal dilapidated as to paint and stuffing, but otherwise fit for service. A very trifling expense would put them in re- pair as regards the cushioning ; and then, with well-made covers, they would look well in any drawing-room. Sofas may be covered in the same way; and thus much expense will be spared, and a handsome,, comfortable appear- ance attained. Old chairs are often purchased to be covered with worsted work. This is very well as a fancy or amusement, but there is no economy in it. When the work is completed (which, even in worsted, is no trifling expense), it must be mounted, and the chairs handsomely painted to receive it. When this is all done you have furnished your room at some cost. Dining-room chairs are almost always made of mahogany, and the seats covered with morocco or hair cloth; the latter is the cheapest. They ought to be stuff'ed with horsehair ; but there is so much imposition practised in things of this kind, that purchasers should examine the chairs so as to discover whether they contain horsehair or straw, which is occasionally substituted. Some- times at sales very inferior articles are bought; and what appeared at first a bargain turns out to be a dear purchase. In furniture of this kind it is better not to select that which is very cheap if possible, as there is generally some mischief lurking under a bargain. If the frames are made of unseasoned wood, they will soon shrink, and the chairs will be rickety. We are much pleased with what are called lee- liive chairs. They will not, of course, do for dining or drawing-rooms; but for the snug sitting- room, where families always love to congregate and feel at ease, they are most comfortable. For the cottage residence, also, they are very suitable, simple-looking, unexpensive, and easy to rest in; and, if neatly finished, would be quite pretty enough for any person of moderate tastes. If chintz covers wei-e fitted to them they might please the more fastidious eye without much adding to expense. The black leather-work of chairs, settees, &c., may be restored by first well washing off the dirt with a little warm soap and water, and afterwards with clean water. The brown and faded portions may now be re-stained by means of a little black ink, or preferably hlack reviver. and, when this has got thoroughly dry, they may be touched over with white of egg, strained and mixed with a little sugar-candy. When the latter is nearly dry it should be polished off with a clean, dry brush. A similar process will revive ladies' and gentlemen's dress boots and shoes. CHALK so abounds in England that the whiteness it gives to some of her cliffs and soils obtained for her the classical name of Albion, or the ivliite country. Its uses, when burnt so as to form lime, and as a manure, are well known. Precipitated chalk, which is chalk in the state of a very fine powder, is the best basis of tooth powder. It is also excellent for removing acidity in the stomach, simply mixed with a little water. In diarrhoea, in conjunction with opium, it is also valuable, after removing all irritating matters from the bowels by a pur- gative. From its absorbent powers it is a good external application to ulcers discharging their irritating matter. Dose, from 10 grains to 2 scruples. See Whiting. CHALK, FRENCH. This is also called soapstone, from its peculiar unctuous feel to the touch, and its power to remove grease spots. It owes these properties to the magnesia and alu- mina it contains. To remove grease spots, scrape a little of the French chalk upon them, put a piece of paper over that, and press upon it with a hot iron. CHALK STONES are so called because they somewhat resemble half-dried mortar. They are lumps which form about the joints of gouty patients. They sometimes occur about the head when that part has been long afilicted with acute riieumatism. They frequently excite ulceration, and, when they protrude through the skin, may be removed, but an operation of this kind is rarely resorted to. They do not contain any chalk, but are formed of a peculiar salt, urate of soda, which is found also in other calculous secretions of the human body. CHALYBEATES are preparations of iron used in various disorders arising from debility. Females especially should not take these pre- parations, except under medical advice. Chaly- beate mineral waters, as those of Bath, and that numerous description of them, similar to the cold chalybeate waters of Tunbridge, are also much in request. A grain of sulphate of iron, in a pint of water, forms a tolerable imita- tion of them. Aided by the ordinary natural powers, chalybeates are useful in nervous and in other such chronic affections. Pills. Take of cai'bonate of iron, 4 scruples; extract of gentian, ^ drachm ; syrup of orange, as much as is sufficient. Make 24 pills ; three may be taken every morning and night. Or, take of sulphate of iron, 2 scruples; extract of