AUT [ 52 J BAG particles, •will in autumn be liable to remain on the surface, in a state inclining to putrefaction, and to be re-absorbed to the great detriment of the human or animal body. Hence arise bilious and putrid fevers, with a long train of other complaints, according to the constitution and particular circumstances of the individual. Parental Nature, however, has amply provided the means of obviating such disastrous effects. With this intention she has given us a great variety of subacid fruit and acescent vegetables, which at that season attain to their perfection, and are eminently qualified to counteract the putrid disposition of the fluids. To assist her in this benevolent intention we ought to choose an appropriate diet, and at the same time defend the surface of the body with a proper dress, which is warm, light, and sufiQciently porous, in order to admit the evaporation of perspirable volatile humours. Notwithstanding all the objections made by theorists against the use of Flannel worn next the skin, we venture to pronounce it the most beneficial covering, provided the conditions and exceptions we shall state under that article be duly attended to. But to see the fashionable females of the metropolis, as well as in the country, at all seasons of the year, dressed in muslin, cotton, and other light stuffs, scarcely sufificient to protect them against a sudden blast of wind — such deviations from the rules of prudence and real economy, may, indeed, deserve the lash of the Roman satirist, who speaks of the bitter complaints of Proserpine in chilly autumn, but they cannot be corrected by Reason till the shrine of that whimsical idol, Fashion, be shaken. _ AUTUMN, DINNERS IN. It is impos- sible in giving a list of articles suitable for dinners for us to hit upon those which are convenient for everybody, and adapted to all parts of the country; but those that we do give, if they are not exactly what is required in eveiy case, will serve as a guide, and may be sug- gestive of what is really wanted. We shall furnish many various forms which may be changed at pleasure, and according to circum- stances, substituted by whatever else may be more convenient. 1. Soup; roast fowls, dried tongue; kidney- beans, potatoes ; apple pie, rice pudding 2. Fish; roast pork and apple sauce ; peas, cabbage, and cauliflower; cherry pie, blanc- mange ; salad. 3. Green pea soup ; roast lamb, fowls ; apple charlotte, blanc-mange, custards. 4.. 0.\-tailsoup; fish; boiled fowls,ham, roast veal; custard pudding, sweet omelet. 5. Mock-turtlesoup; roast beef, boiled fowls; dam^ion taits, fritters 6. Salmon; roast goose and apple sance, fillet of veal, boiled bacon; patties, apple pie, marrow pudding, lemon custards. 7. Hare or rabbit soup; pigeon pie, roast fowls, partridges, or grouse; calves' feet jelly, ice creams, sweetmeat tartlets. 8. White soup, cod and oyster sauce ; sirloin of beef, pheasant, oyster pates, sweetbreads; tapioca pudding, jam tartlets, and jellies. 9. Rich brown soup; salmon, smelts; roast turkey, haunch of mutton, fricaseed chickens, pigeon pie ; jam tai'ts, apple snow, blanc-mange. 10. Boiled or stewed rump of beef, roast hare, veal-and-ham pie, roasted ducks, partridges, or other game; pasties, marmalade pudding, col- lege pudding, mince pies, jellies, and custards 11. Salmon, whiting ; saddle of mutton, boiled turkey, roast fowls, stewed ducks, dried tongue, partridges, snipes, or woodcocks ; macaroni, bread-and-butter pudding, plum pies, stewed plums, custards, cheesecakes, and ices. 12. Mock-turtle and Julienne soup; salmon, haddock, or whiting; roast beef, boiled leg of mutton, chicken pie, pigeon pie, collared pig, ham ; apple tart, blanc-mange, jellies, custards, stewed pears, puffs, and ices. B. BABA. Take the fourth part of 2 lbs. of flour, lay it on your pasteboard or slab, and, having made a hole in the middle of it, put in 1 oz. of yeast; work it up with one hand, whilst with the other you pour in warm water; make it into a rather soft paste, put into a wooden bowl, first pricking it in a few places, cover it with a cloth, and let it stand. When it has risen well take the remainder of the flour and spread it on the first-made paste; mix them well together, adding to them i oz. of salt, 6 eggs, and 1 lb. of fresh butter (well mixed together before adding them), i lb. of stoned raisins, 2 ozs. of currants, ^ glass of Malaga or white wine, and a little saffron in powder. Work them up together thoroughly; roll out this paste - two or three times, and then let it stand for six hours; then, having buttered a mould, fill it only three parts full, and set in a warm place to rise gently. When raised to the top of the mould, bake in a tolerably hot oven. A brisk oven is best. BACCHIC CREAM. Put H pint of white wine, with some lemon-peel, coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and 3 ozs. of sugar, into a stew- pan, and let them boil a quarter of an hour; then mix I tea-spoonful of flour with the yolks of 6 eggs ill another stewpan, and stir in by degrees the other previously-boiled ingredients. When about haF cold, strain the whole through a sieve.