FEU FRU [ 533 ] aad put them into cold water. When all in, set the vessel over a moderate fire, keeping the water, however, constantly nearly boiling until the fruits will give to the touch; then throw them with great care into cold water again; drain away this water, and add fresh; change the water twice more within a quarter of an hour, after which drain them for the last time, and put them into broken bottles. If any of the fruit is the least broken or bruised it must be put aside, as it would spoil the rest. In the meanwhile take a proper quantity of sugar, as ] ^ lb. for twenty-five peaches; clarify and boil it to la nappe; measure, and put double its quantity of good brandy; mix and pour them into a glazed pan ; let them stand awhile, and then pour the mixture on the fruit. FRUIT, CANDIED. It must first be pre- served, then dipped in warm water, dried with a cloth, strewed all over with sifted sugar, and again dried in a stove or oven, turning it as occasion requires. FRUIT CHEESECAKES Wlien a number of orange or lemon custards are made part of them may be put into a mortar, with prepared orange or lemon-peel, zest, and sugar, and filled into cheesecake cases. FRUIT, CONSERVE OF. Take currants, strawberries, cherries, and raspberries, of each 1 lb.; press the juice from them, strain it, and set it over a moderate fire till reduced to half the quantity. Dissolve 12 lbs. of sugar, skim it well, and boil it to casse; take it from the fire, add the juice, and replace it; let it boil only once, and then stir it till the sugar bubbles. Have your cases or moulds ready, and pour the conserve into them. FRUIT CREAM is made like blanc- mangers, the fruit sweetened and raised by its essences, and enough of fish, heel, isin- glass, jelly, or eggs to thicken. It may be coloured and moulded into any form. FRUIT, DRIED (au Caramel). Cut a number of osier twigs to about three inches in length, and on the end of each place dry pre- served fruit; then take a small piece of butter, which nmst be perfectly free from either salt or water, as otherwise it will adhere to the marble slab, on which it must be rubbed with the palm of the hand all over. The preparations properly performed, take some clarified sugar (the quantity must be in proportion to the fruit), and boil it to caramel: then take an osier twig in each hand, dip the fruit in the sugar, and turn them round several times that the sugar may adhere on all sides. When the caramel begins to cool lay the fruit on the buttered slab, and proceed in the same way with the remainder of the fruit until as many are done as are required. When all are done and cold take out the twigs, and wrap each fruit in paper with a device as usual. As these operations cannot be performed too quickly it would be advisable to have two or more persons to do them. FRUIT IN JELLY Have in readiness a plain mould, either long or round, about three inches deep ; then have ready some mould jelly, and spread it at the bottom of the mould about a quarter of an inch thick; let it be cold ; then put in ripe peaches, grapes, or any sort of ripe fruit you please,- preserved fruit, or China oranges cut in quarters, or whatever shape you choose; put in a little warm jelly, and let it stand till it is cold to fasten the fruit in its place, otherwise it will rise up; then fill the mould up with warm jelly, let it stand till it is quite cold, turn it into a dish, and garnish it according to your own taste. FRUIT PUDDING, BAKED. Rub goose- berries or any other fruit through a hair-sieve, and to half a pint of fine pulp add Jib. of Naples biscuits, 3 ozs. of oiled fresh butter, half a pint of cream, grated nutmeg, sugar according to taste, and six eggs. Beat all these ingredients together for ten minutes, add slices of citron, and bake the mixture in a dish with puff paste round the rim. FRUIT, PUFFS OF PRESERVED. Roll out thin good puff paste, and cut it into pieces; lay a small quantity of any kind of jam on each, double them over, and cut them into shapes; lay them with paper on a baking plate, ice them, and bake them about twenty minutes without colouring. FRUIT STAINS ON LINEN. As white napkins are used for wiping the fingers after eatmg fruit, let them, as soon as taken from the table, be thrown into a large vessel of clean water. If hot water is at hand it will be better than cold. Leave them to soak during the remainder of the day, then take them out, put them where they will dry, and you will generally find that the fruit stains have disappeared. If any remain, wet the stains with hot water, and then rub on them some lemon juice or salt of lemon powder, washing it off as soon as it has removed the stain. Cream of tartar will sometimes produce this effect. It is scarcely possible to get a stain out of any sort of linen after it has been previously washed with soap. FRUIT STORING. If a fruit room be built over a place where there is a free circula- tion of air, its roof double ceiled, the walls lined with wood, a cavity being left between these two, it will possess the essential properties for preserving fruit from decay. The more important principles necessary to attend to with regard to the long keeping of