AERATED BREAD MADE BY MACHINERY. DR. DAUGLISH'S AERATED BREAD-MAKING MACHINE. Amongst the many arts and manufactures carried on for producing the necessaries of life, none exceed, in practical importance, that of making Bread; and yet, perhaps, of all others, it is that which has excited the least general interest. Indeed, it was not until a Pavliamentai-y Report was published, followed up by articles in the daily press, that any attention was paid to the way in which our Bread, " the staff of life," is manufactured. There are two great objections to the ordinary method of Bread-making; viz., the employment of yeast for fermenting, and of manual labour for kneading the dough. All fermenting matters cause a loss of flour, owing to the chemical changes which it undergoes during the fermentation, or "rising." Their object, indeed, is to produce, by that destruction of flour, a gas, which, whilst spreading through the substance of the dough, shall give it a lightness and porosity, by expanding the gluten, or most nourishing part of the Bread, into thin-sided cells. This condition is essential; for, otherwise, the Bread would be heavy, indigestible, and quite unfit as an article of daily food. It would, indeed, be in a similar condition to paste used in making the crust of pies, &c.— With respect to the employment of manual labour, it will be unnecessary to say more than that the revelations made by the Report, disclosed details of the most unpleasant nature in all respects. Machinery has long been employed in the dockyards for making biscuits for the navy; and various patents have been taken out for extending its operation to Bread-making. Amongst these, that of Dr. Dauglish is, perhaps, the most effective and valuable, for manual labour is completely done away with by it. The " rising" of the dough is effected by the use of carbonic acid gas, produced apart from the flour, S:c., and introduced mechanicalhj into the gluten; so that no chemical chaiic/e is at all produced during the manufacture. The above engraving illustrates the entire process. The flour is passed by the shoot, H, into a spherical vessel, F, in which knives rotate, moved by the cog-wheels, G, and which supersede manual labour in the process of kneading. The carbonic acid gas is produced in the vessel B, which contains chalk; this being decomposed by the gradual addition of a dilute acid, supplied by the .■Archimedean screw, C. The gas, after being carefully washed with water, is forced into the receivers, E, which are filled with pure water; the latter rapidly absorbs the gas, in a manner similar to that adopted in making soda-water. This aerated water is passed, under great pressure, into the vessel F, in which the flour is undergoing the process of kneading. After a time the dough is allowed to escape from this kneading-vessel, at L, and, on coming out of this opening, it rapidly expands, owing to the action of the gas in its pores. Thus the minute cells are produced without the employment of yeast, which, from being sour or putrid, often materially injures the Bread, and renders it unwholesome. The dough is received into tins, and conveyed by a railway to the oven, N ; and is, therefore, nerer touched iy the hands of the baker during any part of the process. The remaining letters indicate various portions of the motive power of the machinery, and the steam-boiler. The "Aerated Bread Company" has for some time carried on this method of manufacture in London, and it has opened Sixteen Bakeries, and over One Hundred Depots, in various parts of the Metropolis. Great success has attended its operations. The " National Provincial Aerated Bread Company" has been recently formed, for the purpose of spreading, throughout the country, the manufacture of a Bread which we can confidently recommend as the purest, most nutritious, and therefore most economical, of any which can be supplied to the public.