GOH [ 504 ] G LU GLUE, SPIRIT. Beat 1 oz. of isinglass to shreds, put it into a small skillet, and pour over it a pint of brandy. Set the skillet over a slow fire, so that a very gentle heat may be applied to the mixture. In a short time the isinglass will be dissolved. When none of the isinglass remains strain the solution, and put it into a wide-mouthed bottle with a glass stopper, which must remain constantly closed. At the time it is required for use it must be liquefied by a moderate heat, which renders it thin and transparent. Used like ordinary glue for joining wood, it forms so tenacious a union of the parts, that the point of junction is stronger and more difficult to break than any other part of the wood. Also, if sawdust be mixed with the glue and formed into a ball, tliis will become solid and elastic, so as to be fit for turning. By this process it may be hollowed out into a bowl, which, provided it be kept from the wet, will last lor ages. This solution in brandy never corrupts, and is there- fore the best form of dissolved isinglass for fining wines and other liquids. The solution likewise serves admirably for taking impressions of coins and medals, over the surface of which a very thin coating must be poured of the melted glue. This coating being left on the coin or medal during several days until it is liard, is then a tough, horny, transparent substance, bearing the impression in relief on one side, and in intaglio on the other. See Cement, Armenian. GLYCERIN is a sweet liquid obtained from oil and fat during the process of forming com- posite candles. It has been applied usefully to burns, and mixed with poultices to prevent their drying. It has been administered with success in some cases of deafness. GLYSTER. See Clyster. GNATS. These in temperate or cold climates, and musquitoes in hot climates, may be made to settle and cease from troubling by burning brown paper in the room, so that its smoke may be well diffused throughout the air. To prevent them biting, the hands and face may be moistened with a solution of tartaric acid in water, which must be allowed to dry on. To allay the itching arising from their bite apply sal volatile in spirit of hartshorn to the place. GODARD. This is the same as Ragout FiNANCiERE, only it serves to garnish a sirloin of beef. You then add pigeons gantiers and larded sweetbreads. Keep your sauce thin. GODBOLD'S VEGETABLE BALSAM. Steep \ oz. of garlic in half a pint of vinegar for three days; strain off the liquor clear, dis- solve in it 1 lb. of loaf sugar, and then add 1 drachm of tincture of tolu, and 3 ozs. of rectified spirit of wine. Mix well by shaking. GODFREY'S CORDIAL. Infuse lOozg. of sassafras, and seeds of caraway, coriander, and anise, of each 1 oz., in 6 pints of water; simmer the mixture until it is reduced to 4 pints, then add 6 lbs. of treacle, and boil the whole for a few minutes. When it is cold add 3 ozs. of the tincture of opium. This is anodyne and causing sleep, and is usually given to children troubled with wind or colic, but is too often given merely to quiet them. Its frequent use is destructive of the health and life of children. The dose is one- third of a tea-spoonful up to a tea-spoonful, according to the age of the child. GODFREY'S SMELLING SALTS. See Ammonia, Carbonate of. GODIVEAU. Take fillet of veal or breast of fowl or game, fresh pork or sausage meat, beef marrow or suet, equal quantities of each, veal sweetbreads, truffles, and mushrooms; season these articles with pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, all in powder; pound all of them to- gether, and put in, one at a time, the yolks of eggs; pour in also a little water, pounding continually until it is reduced to a sort of paste; make a small ball of it, which boil in a little water to ascertain whether it is sufficiently salt. Sweet herbs may be added when you are about to use it. The godiveau is used as a farce for tourtes and hot pies. GODIVEAU, HOT PIE OF. Make a raised crust about five inches high, and of any size you may think proper, on the bottom of which lay some godiveau; over this place some mushrooms cooked in butter, two or three artichoke bottoms cut in pieces, and then lay some more godiveau formed into small sausages; cover the pie with the paste, dorez, and bake it. When done open it, and pour in any sauce which will correspond with the godiveau. GODIVEAU, TOURTE OF. Roll out some light paste, and cut it to the size of the dish you intend to use; spread over it a small quantity of godiveau, on which place a few mushrooms fried lightly and drained, and then some artichoke bottoms, each cut into four or six pieces. Roll some godiveau into balls of any size you think proper, and lay them on the above-mentioned articles so as to form a flatfish dome; cover well with the light paste, press the edges together, moisten the top, and lay an ornamental cover of puff paste ovei\ GOHOTE. Take a fillet of veal that will chop, and mince it finely; season it with salt, pepper, a little parsley, and an onion chopped finely; add about half a tea-cupful of bread crumbs, and a little fat of ham or pork ; if not the latter, some butter and two eggs. Mix all well with the hands, and make it into one large ball; sprinkle it with bread crumbs, and put