r 45 ] ART ARS or less uniformly observed, but there are some peculiarities and varieties which must also be stated. Eruptions are not unfrequent in those who survive several days, but they are more gene- rally seen in chronic cases. Swelling of the body, but particularly around the eyes, has also been noticed. Pain and vomiting are sometimes wanting, and even on pressure the former has not been recognised. Again, the pulse has occasionally been found very slow, not more than forty beats in a minute. If death be somewhat retarded, there is not unfrequently a remission of all the distressing symptoms, and the patient is then in a dozing stupor. This usually happens about the second day, but it is merely temporary, and the symp- toms return speedily with equal or increased violence. It must be remembered that many cases are on record where this train of symptoms is followed by death in a few hours, from three to six, and yet the indications of irritation of the alimentary canal have been perfectly well marked during life, and verified by dissection after death, 2. The second variety of poisoning includes those cases in which death ensues in Jive or six hours, or a little more, at a period too early for inflammation to be always properly developed, and accordingly the symptoms are by no means so striking as in the first variety. On animals the eifects were almost narcotic; but in man they are far from being so distinctly marked. In some instances of this kind vomiting occurs at the usual period after taking the poison, but it seldom continues. The most uniform effect is extreme fainting, amounting at times to deliquium. Occasionally there is some stupor, or, rather, oppression, and often slight convulsions. The pain at the pit of the stomach is slight, and seldom accompanied with the other signs of internal inflammation. 3. The third variety is when life is prolonged six, eight, or ten days, or even is saved after some illness. Here the early symptoms are the same as those of the first or inflammatory variety, but the subsequent ones are referable to nervous irritation. They generally come on when the former begin to recede, yet they sometimes make their appearance while the symptoms of inflammation are still violent. They vary in different individuals from coma to an imperfect palsy of the arms and legs, and between these extremes are observed epileptic fits or tetanus. Thus, in a case of Dr. Roget's, after recovery from the ordinary effects, the patient was seized with epileptic fits on the sixth day, and they returned occasionally until the ninteenth. In Mr. Tur- ner's family, supposed to be poisoned by Eliza Fanning, twitches, numbness, and epileptic fits. occurred in different individuals. Pyl mentious a case where tetanus was present; and partial palsy of the extremities has been noticed by De Haen, Mr. Murray, of Alford, Professor Bernt, Dr. Falconer, and others. Among the occasional results when life is saved, are irritability of the stomach, attended with constant vomiting of food—loss of the hair and desquamation of the cuticle. Soreness and inflammation of the eyes are frequently mentioned as occurring. 1. Remove the poison; and 2. Prevent its injurious consequences on the stomach and system generally. The first is attempted by means of an emetic, as the sulphate of zinc ; but if vomiting be present, we may aid it by diluents in small quantities. Tartrite of antimony should never be given. But when vomiting does not take place im- mediately from the means just directed, the urgency of the case warrants us in using more direct remedies. Renault recommends that the stomach be washed and emptied mechanically, by means of a large tube of elastic gum and a syringe. In this way a certain quantity of liquid may be thrown in to dilute or suspend the poison, and by the action of syringe the whole may be again withdrawn. The stomach- pump has in this way proved a useful assistant in some cases, but it is probably most valuable in instances of poisoning with opium. 3. In several instances the free use of mag- nesia has proved of service. Mr. Joseph Hume was, I believe, the first who administered this article. Copious vomitings had already occurred, and retchings and pain continued. Under these circumstances, he gave carbonate of magnesia very freely with tincture of opium, suspended in water. In five days the patient was well. Inflammation of the stomach is not an un- common secondary consequence in those who survive, and Dr. Yeiloly first suggested that it should be treated accordingly. In Dr. Roget's case it succeeded perfectly; and several instances have since occurred in which venesection, blis- ters, &c., were used with the happiest results. Opium, after free depletion, is also useful. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS (Dried). Pluck your artichokes from the stalks just before they come to their full growth, which draws out all the strings from the bottoms; boil them till you can easily take off the leaves; then lay the bottoms on this, and set them in a cool oven. Repeat this until they are dry, which you may know by holding them up against the light, when, if they are dry enough, they will appear transparent. Put them into paper bags, hang them up in a dry place, and they will keep good the greater part, if not the whole of the year.