GOU GOU [ 571 ] Full diet of animal food, ragouts, rich and highly seasoned sauces, with a free use of spi- rituous and fermented liquors, particularly of wines abounding with tartar, together with in- dolence and inactivity, are the causes which give rise to corpulency and a full habit of body. Hence, then, the frequency of gout among the higher orders of people. It is the opinion of modem physicians most generally entertained, that gout proceeds from an accumulation of humours in the relaxed vessels of the ligaments and tendons of the joints; but concerning the nature of those humours different opinions are entertained, A paroxysm or fit of the regular gout some- times comes on suddenly without any warning; at other times it is preceded by an unusual coldness of the feet and legs, a suppression of perspiration in them, and numbness, or by a sense of pricking along the lower extremities ; the appetite falls off, and the stomach is troubled with wind and indigestion; a degree of lassi- tude, listlessness, and fatigue is felt over the whole body; the bowels are costive, and the urine is of a pale colour. On the night of the attack the patient goes to bed perhaps in tolera- ble health, and after a few hours is awakened with the severity of the pain, which has affected either the joint of the great toe, the heel, calf of the leg, or probably the whole of the foot • these symptoms increase in violence, and are succeeded by rigours and feverishness, with throbbing of the affected part. Both feet not unfrequently become swollen and inflamed, so that the patient can place neither of them upon the ground ; nor can the least motion be en- dured without suffering the most excruciating torments. Towards the morning he falls asleep, and a gentle sweat breaking out terminates the paroxysm—a number of which constitute what is termed " a fit of the gout "—the duration of which will be longer or shorter according to the proneness of the body to disease, the season of the year, and the age and strength of the patient. Notwithstanding there may be an alleviation of pain at the expiration of some hours after the paroxysm has commenced, still the patient is not entirely relieved from it, and for some even- ings successively both pain and fever return, which continue until the morning with more or less violence. These paroxysms, however, in time prove milder every day, till at length the disease goes off either by perspiration, an in- creased flow of urine, or some other evacuation, the affected parts becoming itchy, the scarf skin falling off in scales, and some degree of lame- ness remaining. During the course and progress of the com- plaint various parts of the body are affected, and it shifts from one limb or joint to another By repeated attacks the joints lose their strength and flexibility, and become so stiff as to be deprived of motion, &c. In some cases the entire system becomes weak and languid, in- digestion and fainting come on, and the disease at last terminates in palsy, asthma, or dropsy, the latter appearing most commonly in the form of water in the chest. The gout takes on the appearance of many diseases, and resembles them so closely that, by being mistaken for them and treated im- properly, it is often diverted from its regular course, to the great danger of life. For this reason, those who have had the gout ought to pay particular attention to whatever may happen to take place about the time that they have cause to expect a return of it. To render the recun-ence of the gouty paroxysms less frequent, as well as the attacks less severe, more is to be effected by tem- perance in diet, cheerfulness and serenity of mind, moderate exertion of the mental faculties, retiring early to rest, removing costiveness as occasion may require, and by regular and mode- rate exercise, than by any other means what- ever, as well as their being attended with greater safety. Exercise in persons disposed to gout strengthens the system and prevents plethora, and in the beginning of the disease it will often prevent an attack which otherwise might have taken place. When abstinence from animal food is requisite a diet consisting of milk and farinaceous seeds will be the most proper, and all kinds of spirits and fermented liquors are to be avoided. Where any swelling and stiffness of the parts remain after the paroxysms of the gout have subsided, benefit may be derived from galvanism or electricity, with friction by means of the flesh-brush. The acidity which usually prevails in the stomach and intestines is best corrected by taking a little magnesia once or twice a day. Opiates are sometimes resorted to, to allay the pain; but it should be borne in mind that when these are given at the commencement of the paroxysms, or when the inflammation runs high, a return is often induced with more violence. It is a fact that, notwithstanding the many and often contradictory remedies that have been prescribed for gout, not one which has hitherto been offered for the benefit of the gouty world possesses any remedial power; and all that can be done with safety to the patient is to lead him through the paroxysm, after it has once commenced, by abstaining from the causes previously enumerated ; by recommending tem- perance, regular and moderate exercise, absti- nence froni acescent food, strong liquors, as