COW cou [ 362 ] ^Ib. of flour; make a hollow in the paste, in which put the salt aud sugar in powder; after- wards pour on it a glass of hot milk, and mix the whole together with the remainder of the flour. Continue to work it up for some minutes after the whole ingredients are put in, adding a small quantity of warm milk, which will render it smooth. Have a mould ready, butter it, and lay the sweet almonds, each cut in half, over the bottom of the mould in forms, on which pour the paste carefully and in small quantities, so as not to derange the almonds. Put your mould in a warm but not a hot place, that the cake may rise properly; and when this operation has taken place put it into a moderate oven, which should be kept closed. In an hour's time look at the couglaajjia, and if it be flexible and of a light colour let it remain thirty or forty minutes longer, but if it be firm and red it is sufficiently done. When taken from the mould put it into the oven again for a few minutes. COUGLAUPPLES, SMALL. To make a dozen small couglauffles take f lb. of flour, 3 drachms of yeast, 3 drachms of salt, 2 whole eggs and 3 yolks, 2 ozs. of sugar, a little cream, and ^Ib. of butter. The preparation is the same as the German couglauffles. When the paste is made divide it into twelve equal parts. Butter a dozen small biscuit moulds, 1311 them with your preparation, and let them stand. When risen so as to fill the moulds put them into a brisk oven, and take them out as soou as they are of a light colour. COUNTRY CAPTAIN. Cut a fowl in pieces, shred a large onion very small, and fry it brown in butter; sprinkle the fowl with salt, dust it over with fine curry powder, and fry it brown; put all into a stewpan, with a pint of soup, and stew it slowly down to one-half. Serve it with rue. COUQUES. Put into a saucepan the yolks of 16 eggs, the rinds of 2 lemons, loz. of salt, and 2 ozs. of sugar. On these pour a pint of boiling cream, stirring it quickly. Set it on the fire, but do not let it boil. Strain it through a bolter, and then let it cool. Take 2 lbs. of flour, and make a quarter of it into leaven with \oz. of yeast and a little warm water. Keep it rather moist, and put it into a warm place to rise. In the meantime make the remainder of the flour into a paste with the ci'eam and a \ lb. of butter; knead it up five or six times; then put in the leaven, and knead it again twice; tie it up in a floured cloth, aud set it in a warm place. In about two hours take it out, and cut the paste in pieces the size of an egg, form them to that shtipe, lay them on a baking tin, and leave them for half an hour to rise; then dorez and bake them in a hot oven When done open each on one side, take out a little of the crumb, in the place of which put a bit of butter worked up with a little salt, and serve them. COURT BOUILLON. Cut a proper quantity of carrots, onions, celery, and turnips, and put them into a saucepan, with butter, parsley, garlic, thyme, basil, salt, mignonette (see Mignonette), and cloves ; sweat them over a gentle fire ; add white wine vinegar or veijuice ; boil, and then strain it. Serve it with whatever you may require it for. It is generally used for fish. COURT BOUILLON (for all Kinds of Presh-water Fish). Put some water into a fish kettle, with a quart of white wine, a slice of butter, salt, pepper, a large bunch of parsley and young onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaves, and basil, all tied together, some sliced onions, and some carrots; boil the fish in this court bouillon, which will serve for several times, and do not scale it. When the fish will admit of it take care to boil it in a napkin, which makes it more easy to take out, without danger of breaking. COURT PLASTER. Dissolve 1 oz. of isinglass in 4 ozs. of hot water. At the same time dissolve J drachm of benzoin resin in 2 ozs. of rectified spirit of wine. Strain the two solutions through separate pieces of fine muslin, and then mix them. Apply by means of a brush sevei'al coats of this mixture to silk, black or flesh-coloured, stretched on a frame. That of an old slate or frame for worsted work will do. When dry brush over the same surface with a mixture of i oz. of Chio turpentine and 1 oz. of tincture of benzoin. CO WHAGE, or Cow-itch. The name applied to the terribly irritating hairs produced on the outside of the pods of the Mucuna or Dolichos pruriens. A climbing plant, native of the tropics. The itching caused by these hairs is allayed bj rubbing the place with a solution of green vitriol or with oil. Mixed with treacle and taken niglit and morning these hairs are said to kill internal worms. COW-HEEL: To Fry. Strip the feet asunder, take out all the bones, and put the meat into the frying-pan with some butter. When it has fried a few minutes put in some mint and parsley shred small, a little salt, and some beaten butter; add likewise the yolks of two eggs beaten finely, half a pint of gravy, the juice of a lemon or orange, and a little nutmeg. When the foot is done take it out, put it into a dish, and pour the sauce over it. COW-HEEL : To Pot. Clean and boil the heels till tender ; then cut the meat small, season it with white pepper, salt, and the grating of a nutmeg ; stew it in veal soup half an hour, after which form it into a shape, and pot it as jelly.