THE BOOK OF V THE HOUSEHOLD. ABERFRAU, or Berfro Cakes. Half a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream ; mix with it ^ lb. of finely-powdered loaf sugar; add slowly I lb. of best flour. Rolled thin, cut into shapes, and baked in a quick oven for a short time. Met with chiefly in Anglesea. ABSCESS is a collection of matter arising from previous inflammation. This may be in any part of the body, and what are commonly called boils, whitlows, imposthumes, &c., are all abscesses. When the inflammation first appears treatment ought to be adopted to allay and remove it, but when this cannot be effected then suppuration, or " coming to a head," should be promoted, the matter discharged by opening the head, and the wound dressed. To allay inflammation leeches may be applied, a purgative of Epsom salts be taken, and slight doses of James's powder, only sufiicient to produce slight perspiration and depression. Cold lotions formed of half a pint of vinegar, mixed with two parts water, should be applied to the inflamed part. To an inflammation of the eye the lotion should be applied warm. The diet should be light and diluting, such as broth, gruel, and vegetables. Meats and stimulants of all kinds must be avoided. If, notwithstanding this treatment, the heat of the part increases, the tumour enlarges, attended by more pain and pulsation, then promote its suppuration by applying bread-and-milk poultices, warm and large, and its activity is promoted by putting an onion, raw and chopped fine, and sprinkled over the poultice before applying it. The poultice should be renewed twice daily at the least. When the thinness of the skin on the most prominent part of the abscess, and the appear- ance of matter shows that it is ripe, open it with a lancet, or with a very sharp-pointed pair of scissors; make the opening large. Press out the matter, and continue the poultice until, from being thick, the discharge becomes thin and watery. Then discontinue the poultice, and put on a plaster spread with yellow basilicum or calamine ointment. The last is commonly called Turners cerate. ABSTINENCE FROM FOOD. Fromwhat- ever cause this may have arisen, if the abstinence has been for a lengthened time—as, for ex- ample, twenty-four hours—the party abstaining should not at first take solid food, but either a little broth or oatmeal gruel; after that a little light pudding. The quantities should bo small at a time, and no full meal should be partaken of until after a day of this gradual nourishing has passed. Abstinence from food, when the stomach is disordered, is beneficial, and it is very objectionable then to tempt the patient to eat. The stomach requires rest—let it have what it needs. We all eat much more than nature requires, and Mr. Abernethy was quite right in considering that most of our diseases arise from our ill-treatment of our stomachs. Every one should read Mr. R. Chambers' complaint, supposed to be uttered by the Gastric Juice, the chief agent in digest- ing our food. The human frame can endure total abstinence much longer than is commonly believed. Anne Moore, " the fasting woman of Tutbury," though an impostor, and finally de- tected, lived for nine days and nine nights with- out food. ACCIDENTS : Cadtions to Prevent. 1. As most sudden deaths come by water, particular caution is therefore necessary in its vicinity. 2. Stand not near a tree, or any leaden spout, iron gate, or palisade, in time of lightning. 3. Lay loaded guns in safe places, and never imitate firing a gun in jest. 4. Never sleep near charcoal; if drowsy at