[ 92 ] BEE BEE BEEF, BEISKET OF (Stewed). Eub the meat with salt and saltpetre, and let it lie four or five days; then lard it with fat bacon, and put it into a stewpan with 1 quart of water, 1 pint of strong beer, some sweet herbs, ^ lb. of butter, 3 shallots, some grated nutmeg, and pepper; cover it closely, and stew it over a slow fire for five or six hours. Strain off the liquor, thicken it with burnt butter, and pour it over the beef Garnish with sliced lemon, and serve it up. BEEF BROSE. After any large piece of beef has been taken out of the pot it was boiled in, skim off the fat with part of the liquor, and boil it in a saucepan. Have ready in a bowl oatmeal that has been toasted brown before the fire, and salted to taste; pour in the boiling liquor and stir it a little ; if too thick add more liquor, and send it to table quite hot. BEEF BROTH. Wash a leg or shin of beef very clean, crack the bone in two or three places, and add to it any trimmings you have of meat, game, or poultry (heads, necks, gizzards, or feet), and cover them with cold water. Watch and stir it up well from the bottom, and the moment it begins to simmer, skim it carefully. Your broth must be perfectly clear and limpid, for on this depends the goodness of the soups, sauces, and gravies, of which it is the basis. Then add some cold water to make the re- maining scum rise, and skim it again. When the scum has done rising, and the surface of the broth is quite clear, put in 1 carrot, 1 head of celery, 2 turnips, and 3 onions. It should not have any taste of sweet herbs, spice, or garlic; either of these flavours may be added after- wards, if desired. Cover it close, set it by the side of the fire, and let it simmer very gently, so as not to waste the broth, for four or five hours or more, according to the weight of the meat. Strain it through a sieve into a clean and dry stone pan, and set it in the coldest place you have. This is the foundation of all sorts of soups and sauces, brown and white. BEEF, COLLARED (1). Choose the thin end of the flank of fine, mellow beef, but not too fat; lay it in a dish with salt and saltpetre; turn and rub it every day for a week, and keep it cool; then take out all the bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part, and cover it thick with the following seasoning, cut small :— A large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thvme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper, ealt, and allspice. Boll the meat up as tight as possible, and bind it; then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round befoi-e the tape. Put the beef under a good weight, while hot, without undoing it; the shape will then be oval. Part of the breast of veal rolled in with the beef looks and eats very well. BEEP, COLLARED (Q). Lay a flank of beef in ham brine a fortnight, dry it in a cloth, take out the leather and skin, cut it across and across; season it with spice, 2 anchovies, a handful of thyme, parsley, sweet marjoram, winter savory, onions, and fennel; strew this on the meat, roll it in a hard collar in a cloth, sew it, tie it at both ends, and put it in a collar pot, with 1 pint of red wine, as much cochineal as will fill a dessert-spoon without being heaped, and 2 quarts of pump water. When cold, take it out of the cloth. BEEF COLLOPS (1). Take the fillet from the under part of a rump of beef, cut it into small, thin slices, and fry them till three-parts done; then add to them slices of pickled cu- cumbers, small stewed mushrooms, blanched oysters, some good seasoned cullis, and stew them till tender. BEEF COLLOPS (2). Cut a large rump- steak into small pieces, score them with a knife, and flour them; then melt some butter in a Stewpan, and put in the collops, which must be fried quickly a few minutes. Pour in 1 pint of gravy, with the addition of a little butter, rolled in flour, and season with pepper and salt. Cut in slices 4 pickled cucumbers ; chop a few capers, half a walnut, and a little onion. Put these into the pan, and, having stewed the whole five or six minutes, pour them hot into the dish. Garnish with lemon. BEEF CULLIS. Roast a piece of buttock of beef very brown; then cut olf all the brown part, and, whilst hot, beat it in a mortar with some partridge, or fowl, and crusts of bread; then put them into a stewpan with some strong gravy and good broth; season with salt, pepper, cloves, thyme, sweet basil, and a piece of green lemon. Give the whole four or five boilings, and then strain it for use. BEEF, FAMILY. Take a brisket and rub into it the following mixture :—i lb. of coarse sugar, ^ oz. of saltpetre, 2 ozs. of bay salt, and 1 lb. of common salt. Put the meat into an earthen pan, and turn it every day. After remaining in this pickle a fortnight, it may be boiled and sent to table with savoys or greens. When cold and cut into slices it eats well with poivrade sauce, or any kind of pickle. BEEF, FILLET OF (with Anchovies). Soak 5 or 6 anchovies in water about two hours; split them, and lay the fillet with them, inter- mixed with bacon; boil them on a slow fire, with a little broth and 1 glass of white wine, 1 clove of garlic, 2 cloves, and a faggot of sweet herbs. When done, sift the sauce, add a bit of butter rolled in flour, 2 spoonsful of cream, and a few small, whole capers. Make a thickening, and serve it upon the fillet. BEEF, FILLET OF (Roasted). The fiUet