CUR .[ 393 ] C TJ R eometliing wrong about those patients—there is something about them that induces muscular raucour or muscular irritability. It is an object to give all possible energy to their muscles ; it is an object, therefore, that they should have active exercise, and an object to give them all possible strength, that they may have the power of supporting the head and weight. Then I say lie down. But people will ask me, ' Can't you do anything more, sir?' and I must say, ' No, I don't know that I can, unless you choose to be gibbeted.' Thatissometimes done; itisafashion- able way of going to work, and is what I call gibbeting. This was first proposed by Mr. Vacher, and the plan is that of taking the weight of the*body from the pillar that supports it. A most horrible annoyance it is to the pa- tient; the pressure against the chin and the under part of the jaw is dreadful—it produces a thickening and ulceration of the ligament, where it is carried on as according to principle it ought to be. I cannot say I like this system at all, but T advise all my patients to avoid all causes which might affect the original curva- tures, to take off the weight by lying down, and so on ; but the child should not lie down in any constrained attitude. In a boarding school you will see the mistresses of the school having all the girls lying like a file of soldiers on boards turned horizontally, and there they lie for about half an hour. Tliat is a short time, but they can do nothing while they are lying in that position like corpses. Now, I maintain that they may do this on a rug or carpet, and I say. Why cannot your child lie down jn that way, which is the ancient fashion ? But to be sure the other is the more modem; but I know that weight on the upper parts of the body must tend greatly to increase the curves. I know, also, that people will become straight if the cause of the curves is removed, because I have found it to be so in the cases of distortion of the vertebrae from wry necks, as well as in other cases, by such treat- ment as I have been endeavouring to explain to you. " Mr. Hunter used tq say he was convinced that people got awry by the endeavours of parents to keep them straight; that parents were continually watching their children, and making them sjt in a particular attitude ; and that those children so watched, when unobserved, would naturally sink into another way of sitting to have a little ease. Besides, that in keeping in action one set of muscles, and not allowing the other to act at all, whereas every set of muscles should be kept in action. He said you do not see boys grow awry anything like so often as girls, nor yet girls in a low situation of life. I remember when there were stai/s to prevent this wryness, and stays you know are good things to let a person slip aside without that slipping being seen; and that went so far that 1 re- member the time when it was a bet that, upon an examination in an assembly of well brought up girls you would find not one girl among them straight, but that they had all a crick in the hip, or a slip in some part or other. I remember Mr. Hunter saying you should dress your chil- dren lightly and loosely, let them run about and exercise all their muscles equally, and then they will not grow awry. To this parents have a sort of objection, which is, that children will become round shouldered, and so on. Now, I have even endeavoured to refute that absurdity by saying, If children were allowed and suffered to do as they pleased the body would be formed according to that pattern which nature designed it should be. One cannot counteract nature. If the body be healthy it will be well formed, but it will grow according to nature. But, said Mr. Hun- ter, if it be necessary, from fashion and so on, to carry the person in a particular manner, this habit may be obtained at any period of life, and quoting this instance. You see a ploughboy while plodding away at the plough an awkward fellow; but he enlists; then he is put under drill of a sergeant, and then observe with what care and precision he marches after he has been under that sergeant for a time. Now, that shows that if the body is well formed it may carry any fashion ; but there is certainly no counteracting nature. " These are not diseases, but deformities, and yet points of great importance. In some of the cases there is no room for the lungs on one side of the chest. It is this which first attracts people's attention. ' Sir, I want to consult you on my daughter's case: her shoulder is growing out, or her breast is on one side.' 'Oh! the cause is in the distortion of the vertebral column ;' and that they cannot believe, but that you will find to be universally the fact, I believe. " Now I go to speak of curvatures from disease —curvatures produced by a diseased state of the vertebrae. The bodies of the vertebrse are of a spongy substance, the ends of the bones are also spongy, and scrofula may arise, and a curvature of the back produced from a bend forward; then where many of the vertebras are gone, one of the vertebrae sticks out and makes a very acute angle, and this angle, this sharp projection, is one cause of a surgeon's knowing the nature of the disease. Now, in the commencement of the disease the question is whether it begins in the bone or in the intervertebral substance. I really cannot tell; sometimes it is in the one, and some- times, in all probability, in the other. It is very rare that we have an opportunity of examining it at an early period, but when scrofula begins the disease goes on to ulceration, and the bodies