[ 104 ] BEE BEL coldness of the weather the quantity of yeast should be increased. In warm weather little fermentation is required. BEEE, SPRUCE (White) (2), is made by infusing in 10 gallons of water, sugar, 6 lbs.; essence of spruce, 6 ozs.; and adding yeast. Bottle immediately in ^ pints. For brown spruce beer, use treacle instead of sugar. BEER, SUGAR. Boil lib. of the com- monest but sound sugar in 3 gallons of soft water, and put in it a sufficient quantity of the extract of gentian; when it cools, work it as other beers. According to the quantity made, half or two thh'ds may be bottled, and the re- mainder drunk from the cask. BEER, TABLE, is made of very pale malt, 12 quarters, mashed at three times with 46, 32, and 32 barrels of water , then boiled with 62 lbs. 01 hops ; set with 114 lbs. of yeast; cleansed by the yeast head being beaten in and let work out. The produce is 100 ban-els, or 4 gallons to each gallon of malt. BEER, TAPPING. Always have the beer- cock well washed before you put it into the cask, and only use wood to drive it in with; for if you take anything which is iron for that purpose, you will most likely break the cock in so doing. Have the vent-peg loose while you tap it, if it has not been loosened for some time before ; this will prevent its flying about. If the cock goes hard, put a little sweet oil to it, which will make it turn easily; and wrap some paper round it to make it fit properly, so that the beer shall not leak out. When it requires tilting, let it be done while it is running; this will prevent it getting thick. If you cannot do it yourself, have a person to assist you. Of course you will have a proper tilt for that purpose. Barlow's is a very good tilting-stand. BEER, TREACLE (1), is made of hops, IJlb., boiled with 36 gallons of water for an hour; add 14lbs. of treacle and a little yeast. Eerment and bottle. BEER, TREACLE (2). To 2 quarts of boil- ing water add lib. of treacle or molasses; stir these together till they are well mixed; then put in 6 or 8 quarts of cold water and a tea- cupful of yeast. Put the whole into a clean cask, cover it with a coarse cloth two or three times doubled, and in two or three days it will be fit for use. It may be also bottled, and at the second or third time of making the bottom of the first beer will serve for yeast. If made in a large quantity, or intended for keeping, a handful of hops and another of malt should be put in for it to feed on, and when done it is to be stopped up close. Some people add thereto raisins, bran, wormwood, spices, and any fruit that may be in season. BEER, TREACLE (3). To 8 quarts of boiling water put 1 lb. of treacle, J oz. of ginger, and 2 bay leaves. Boil the whole for a quarter of an hour, and, when cool, work it with yeast in the same way as other beer, A little yeast spread on a piece of toast and put into the liquid before it is cold, will excite a fermentation; and when it has done working it may be bottled or barreled, according to the quantity requii'ed for immediate use. If wanted to keep, a small bit of gentian root, with or without a little lemon or orange-peel, may be boiled in the liquor, which will give it an agreeable taste. BEET: To Keep These should have the tops cut off close, and the rough earth cleaned away, and then be kept in a dry place. Lay a bed of dry sand upon the floor about 3 inches thick; put the roots on it close together, the top of one next to the bottom of the other, and so on. Cover the first layer with sand 2 inches thick, and then another layer, and go on in the same manner with the rest, placing some dry straw over the whole. BEET, BOILED. These are dressed like Pickled Beet, but without being scraped or cut till after they are boiled, which will take from one hour and a half to three hours. Like pars- nips, they are sent to table with salt fish, or boiled beef and pork. Beet-root is usually used as a garnish or salad ; but it possesses claims of greater consequence, and would, if baked, afford a most nutritious food. As such it is used almost in every other part of Em'ope, especially in Italy, where beet-roots are called about the streets twice a day, and purchased by all classes of people. BEET, PICKLED. Boil them gently till thi'ee-parts done; then take them out, and, when a little cooled, peel and cut them in slices about half an inch thick. Pour on them cold vinegar in which pepper and allspice have been boiled. BEET SOUP. Boil till tender two roots of beet, and rub off the sldn with a coarse towel; mince them fine, as also 2 or 3 onions; add this to 5 pints of rich gravy soup, so as to make it rather thick, then stir in 3 or 4 table-spoonsful of vinegar and 1 table-spoonful of brown sugar; let it boil, and throw in some fricandellans made up in the form of corks and rolled in flour. BEETLES, BLACK. It is said that the powder of black hellebore root, mixed with flour into a paste and made into pills, if put down where these vermin frequent, is eaten by them and destroj'S them. We have found Chase's beetle poison quite effective. BELLADONNA derives its name from the juice of the berries being used by Italian ladies to render their faces pale. It is known, commonly as deadly nightshade [Atropa bella- donna), and its active principle is called atropina.