L 370 J CRE CRE isinglass, which must be tied up in a piece of thin tiffany; put in a blade or two of mace, strongly boiled in your cream and isinglass till the cream is pretty thick ; sweeten it to your taste. When it is taken off the fire put in a little rose water ; then take a piece of your green freshest citron, cut it in thin slices, and the cream being first put into dishes, when it is half cold put in your citi'on, so as it may but sink from the top, that it may not be seen, and may lie before it be at the bottom. If you wash your citron before in rose water it will make the colour better and fresher; so let it stand till the next day where it may get no water, and where it may not be shaken. CREAM, CLOTTED (1). Take four quarts of new milk from the cow, put it in a broad earthen pan, and let it stand till the next day; then put it over a very slow fire for half an hour ; make it nearly hot to cream, then put it away till it is cold, take the cream off, and beat it smoothly with a spoon. CREAM, CLOTTED (2). String four blades of mace on a thread ; put them to a gill of new milk and six spoonsful of rose water; simmer a few minutes; then by degrees stir this liquor, strained, into the yolks of two eggs well beaten; stir the whole into a quart of very good cream, and set it over the fire; stir it till hot, but not boiling; pour it into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish to eat with fruit. Some persons prefer it without any flavour but that of cream, in which case use a quart of new milk and cream, or do it like the Devonshire cream. When done enough a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, which in the country they call the ring, and when that is seen remove the pan from the fire. CREAM, CODLIN. See Codlin Cream. CREAM, COLD. See Cold Cream. CREAM, CORSTORPHEN. Take a small deep vessel, with a cover to shut closely; put in a quart or two of new milk in the evening; add the same quantity in the morning, and stir and mix them all well together. Next evening put in another quart, and mix again. The follow- ing morning, or sooner, it will appear like very thick lappered milk ; beat it up, as it should not whey, and serve it with sugar. These milks were strongly recommended by an eminent Scotch physician for children's dinner in summer. - We never saw a family of finer-looking nor healthier children than one that dined three times a week on croudy, which was made of fine oatmeal and buttermilk, poui'ed from the churn over it, and stirred well together. These preparations of milk resemble much the famous . dishes of the east, so much es- teemed in the cure of consumption ; and these would be not less so if prepared from mares' or asses' milk fed upon natural herbs. The kou- miss and yahourt are only different preparations brought about by fermentation. CREAM, CRACKLING (1). Beat up the yolks of as many eggs as will be sufficient for the quantity of cream you wish to make, pour- ing in milk as you beat them ; then put in some rasped sugar and lemon-peel, set the dish upon a furnace, and keep continually stirring till the cream begins to be made; slacken your fire; stir the cream without intermission, turning it to the sides of the dish till veiy little or none remains at the bottom, and a border may be made round them, taking great care that it is not burnt. When it is ready heat the fire shovel very hot, give it a fine colour, and with the point of a knife loosen the whole border, that it may remain entire; then let it be put again into the same dish and dried in the oven, that veiy little may be left in the dish, and it will crackle in the mouth. CREAM, CRACKLING (2). Take 1 pint of cream, ^ pint of milk, the peel of a lemon grated, orange-flower water, and 4 pounded macaroons; boil them until reduced to half, and then add 2 ozs. of powder sugar. Put into another saucepan the yolks of 8 eggs, on which pour the cream a little at a time ; put it on the fire, and stir it constantly until the cream is set; then spread it on a baking tin, keeping it about the thickness of a crown piece ; place the tin on a trivet over the fire, and pass a salamander over the surface of the cream to dry it. When that is done cut your cream into pieces of whatever form you may think proper, lay them on a dish, and put them in a hot oven till they are crisp. Serve either hot or cold. CREAM, CURD. Take a pint of cream, and boil it with a little mace, cinnamon, and rose water to make it sweet. When it is as cold as new milk put in about half a spoonful of good rennet, and when it curds serve it in a cream dish. CREAM, CUSTARD. Grate extremely fine the crumb of a penny loaf, and put it into a quart of cream, with ilb. of fresh butter and the yolks of 12 eggs; put it to as much sugar as you please; then let it thicken over the fire; make the custards shallow, and when they have stood half an hour in a slow oven grate some loaf sugar over them and serve. CREAM, DEVONSHIRE. If in the winter the milk should stand for twenty-four hours, but if in the summer it should only stand for twelve; then the milk pan should be placed upon a hot hearth, provided you have one; it not it should be placed in a wide brass kettle of water large enough to receive the pan. It must