CAE [ 204 ] CAE tlien let it bake for two hours and a half or three hours in a brisk oven. This cake should be eaten cold. CAKE, Px\RLTAMENT. Put into a sauce- pan 2 lbs. of treacle, and when it boils add i lb. of butter, and pour it upon 2 lbs. of flour; add a little alum and a bit of pearlash about the size of a nut, and 1 oz. of ginger. Work it well with the hand till quite smooth; let it stand a day and a night, then roll it out very thin, and cut it into oblong cakes. CAKE, PEACH. Pick clean and wash 1 quart of dried peaches, and let them stew all night in as much clear water as will cover them. In the morning drain off most of the water, leaving only as much of it about the peaches as will suffice to prevent them from burning after they are set on the fire. It will be best to have them soaked in the vessel in which you intend to stew them. Keep them covered while stewing, except when you take off the lid to stir them up from the bottom. When they are quite soft, and can be mashed into a smooth jam or marmalade, mix in ^ lb. of brown sugar, and set the peaches to cool. In the meantime soften i lb. of the best fresh butter in J pint of warm milk, heated on the stove, but not allowed to come to a simmer. Sift 1 lb. of flour into a pan; pour in the warm milk and butter (first stirring them well together), and I wine-glass of strong, fresh yeast. Mix the whole into a dough ; cover it, and set it in a warm place to rise. When quite light and cracked all over the surface flour your pasteboard, put the dough upon it, mix in a tea-spoonful of sub- carbonate of soda, and knead it well; set it again in a warm place for half an hour. Then divide the dough into equal portions, and make it up into round cakes about the size in circum- ference of the top of a tumbler; knead each cake; then roll them out into a thin sheet. Have ready the peach jam, mashed very smooth ; with a portion of it cover thickly the half of each cake. Fold over the other half so as to inclose the peach jam in the form of a half- moon ; bring the two edges closely together, and crimp them neatly. Jjay the cakes in buttered square pans, and make them brown. When done grate sugar over the top. These cakes are nice for children, being very light, if properly made and baked. They are by no means rich, and are good substitutes for tarts. Similar cakes may be. made of stewed apples, flavoured with lemon and sweetened, or with raspberries, or any other convenient fruit stewed to a jam. CAKE, PEPPER. Take 1 gill of sherry and oz. of whole white pepper; boil them together for a quarter of an hour; then strain the pepper and put in as much lump sugar as will make it a paste. Then drop it into shapes on a tin plate, and then let them dry without heat. CAKE, PLUM (Campagxe). Take 4 pints of fine flour, make a hole in the middle, and put into it 1 oz. of fine salt, 2 lbs. of butter, 6 eggs, and 3 glasses of water. Beat up the butter with the eggs, the salt, and the water; then mix the flour with the butter; mix up your paste lightly, and give it four turns with the rolling- pin, the same as in making puff-paste. After this working up, form your cake, sprinkling the table with flour, place it upon a pan, press it down till it is about three inches thick; then surround the cake with a band of stout paper, and, to prevent the paste from extending, place over the first band of paper several smaller ones, wetted with the yolk of egg beaten up; place these bands of paper half upon the cake and half in the pan. Your cake, being thus pre- pared, gild it, and with the point of a knife describe upon it all sorts of figures, according to your taste. Put it into a quick oven and let it bake for three hours. This cake is better cold than hot. CAKE, PLUM (Plain). Take 3 lbs. of flour, a little ale-yeast, 1 pint of milk, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of butter, and a little allspice; make into dough before you put in the plums, and work in as many as you please. CAKE, PLUM (Rich). Take 4 lbs. of the finest flour well dried and sifted ; 6 lbs. of the best fresh butter ; 7 lbs. of currants well washed, picked, and rubbed very clean and dry ; 2 lbs. of Jordan almonds blanched and beaten in a marble mortar, with sack and orange-flower water, till they are very fine. Take 4 lbs. of eggs, leave out half the white?, and add 3 lbs. of double-refined sugar beaten and sifted in a lawn sieve, with mace, cloves, and cinnamon, of each J oz.; 3 large nutmegs beaten fine ; a little ginger ; of sack and brandy ^ pint each ; sweet- meats to your liking ; lemon and citron. Take a large broad pan, beat the butter to a cream before any of your ingredients go in, minding to beat it all one way or it will turn to oil ; put in the sugar, beat it well, and work in your almonds. Let your eggs be well beaten, put in, and beat all together till it looks white and thick; put in tho brandy, sack, and spices, and shake your flour in by degrees; when your oven is ready put in the currants and sweetmeats and put it into your hoop. It will take four hours baking in a quick oven. CAKE, PLUM (Vanilla). Take li pint of flour, make a hole in the middle,put in 6 drachms of sugar grated very fine, 3 drachms of white salt, the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 lb. of butter, and a glass of good cream, and stir up the same as for Cam- PAGKE Plum Cake. Spread your paste over