[ 274 ] CHE CHE 2 parts curdled milk ; the third with 2 parts of potatoes aud 4 parts of cow or ewe milk. These cheeses have this advantage over every other kind, that they do not engender mites, and keep fresh for a great number of years, provided they are placed in a dry situation, and in well-closed vessels. CHEESE, POTTED. Add to lib. of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese 3 ozs. of cold fresh butter, a little sifted mace, and a tea-spoonful of mustard. Mix all well in a marble mortar, put it into small pots, cover it -with clarified butter, and set the pots in a cold, dry place. CHEESE, POUNDED. Cut 1 lb. of good mellow Cheddar, Cheshire, or North Wiltshire cheese into thin bits ; add to it 2 ozs., and if the cheese is dry 3 ozs., of fresh butter ; pound and rub them well together in a mortar till it is quite smooth. CHEESE PUFFS. Beat in a mortar a pint of cheese curd (strained from the whey) very fine, with 1^ spoonful of flour, 3 eggs, leaving out 2 whites, a spoonful of orange-flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it rather sweet. Lay a little of this paste in veiy small round cakes on a tin plate. If the oven is hot a quarter of an hour will be sufficient to bake them. Serve them with pudding sauce. CHEESE, RAMAKIN. Take an equal quantity of Cheshire and Gloucester cheese, heat it fine with some fresh butter, 2 ozs. to 1 lb. of cheese ; then add the crumb of white bread soaked in cream, 3 well-beaten yolks of eggs, and 1 white. Stir all together, and bake it in the dish you intend to serve it in a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. CHEESE, ROASTED. Grate 3 ozs. of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks of 2 eggs, 4 ozs. of bread grated, and 3 ozs. of butter; beat the whole well in a mortar with a dessert- spoonful of mustard, a little salt, and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces ; lay the paste thickly upon them, put them into a Dutch oven covered with a dish till hot through. Remove the dish, and let the cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. CHEESE, SAGE. Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice. Mix it with rennet in the mill, more or less, according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come break it gently, and put it in with the skimmer till it is pressed t\To inches above one vat. Press it eight or ten hours, salt it, and turn it every day. CHEESE, SAGE (with Figures). Provide 2 cheese vats of the same size, and set the milk to turn in 2 vessels; one part with rennet alone, and the other part with rennet and sage juice. These must be made as you would make two dis- tinct cheeses, and put into the presses at the same time. When both these cheeses have stood in the presses for half an hour take them out, and cut some square pieces or long slips out of the plain cheese, and lay them bj"^ on a plate; then cut the same number of pieces out of the sage cheese, of the same figure and size, and im- mediately put the pieces of the sage cheese into the places you cut in the plain cheese, and the pieces that you took out of the plain cheese into the places you cut in the sage cheese. The pieces should be cut out by a tin plate made into figures of sevei'al shapes, by which the pieces can be cut out so exactly that they will fit without any trouble. When you have done this put the cheeses in the press again, and finish like other cheeses. The greatest cai'e must be taken that the curd is very equally broken, and that both cheeses are pressed as equally as possible before the figures are cut out, or else, when they come to be pressed for the last time, the figures will press unequally and lose their shapes. The cheeses should be made about two inches thick ; if they are thicker it will be more difficult to make the figures regularly. After they are made they must be frequently shifted and turned on the shelf, and often rubbed with a coarse cloth. They will be fit to cut in about eight months. CHEESE SANDWICH. Take two-thirds of grated Cheshire cheese and one of butter, a little cream, and a small proportion of made mustard; pound them in a mortar; cover small slices of bread with this, and lay a slice of bread over each ; press them gently together, and cut them in small pieces. A little Cayenne pepper may be added. CHEESE, SNOW To 1 pint of cream put the juice of 3 lemons and the rinds of 2 grated, 2 spoonsful of orange-flower water, and sugar to the taste. Whisk it about a quarter of an hour until it thickens ; then put it into muslin in a small sieve. Let it stand until the next day, then turn it out on a glass or china dish. CHEESE SOUFFLE. Take 3 ozs. of flour and 2 ozs. of butter, put them in a stew- pan with 1 egg ; mix them together with 1 pint of milk, and set it on the fire till it begins to boil; if too thick add a little more milk ; then break in the yolks of 5 eggs, aud 1 gill of thick cream. When these are well mixed stir in gently about 2 ozs .of grated Parmesan cheese aud a very little pepper and salt. Beat the whites of the eggs, with the addition of three, and finish as for Souffle. When this light batter is put in paper cases it is called fondue au frontage. CHEESE SOUP. Take a soup dish that will bear the fire, aud spread over the bottom of it Gruyere cheese cut small, with pieces of fresh butter strewed about it. Cover this with thin