[ 303 1 CHO CUD His legs should be bathed in warm water, and afterwards rubbed with flannel cloths, or wrapped in warm blankets, and warm bricks applied to the soles of his feet. The application of a blister to the stomach will sometimes put a stop to the vomiting. In very severe cases the external application of nitric acid has been suggested as a counter- irritant, as a considerable time may elapse before the blister begins to irritate—a practice that has been adopted in that aggravated form of the disease developed in Hindostan. When the violence of the disease is over, to prevent a relapse it will be necessary for some time to continue the use of small doses of laudanum. Ten or twelve drops may be taken in a glass of wine at least twice a day for eight or ten days. The patient's food ought to be nourishing, but taken in small quantities; and lie should use moderate exercise. As the Etouiach and intestines are generally much weakened an infusion of the bark or other bitter in small wine, sharpened with the elixir of vitriol, may be drunk for some time. Take tincture of gentian, 1 drachm; infusion of cas- carilla, l|-oz. Make a draught, to be taken three times a day. CHOLODRl'CE, or Iced Soup. Boil 1 quart of the juice of mainnated cucumbers with sufficient dough to make a paste; when it is cold stir into it 1 quart of curded milk. Boil also in water a young beet-root chopped finely, and put it into the above soup with some -of its liquor to colour it; cut 4 hard-boiled eggs into slices, and chop finely some chives and fennel, some meat of crayfish, and slices of cucumber. Serve this soup without bread, but with pieces of ice in it. You may leave out the beet-root, and use instead chopped sorrel stewed in butter. CHOPS. See Lamb, Mutton, and Pork. CHOUCROUTE. Put some shred cabbage in a pan, and sprinkle it with the seeds of fennel, cumin, a few juniper berries, and salt; add a little vinegar, and set the whole in a stove. CHOUX. Put 1 pint of water into a stew- pan, with I lb. of fresh butter, the rinds of 2 lemons grated, \ lb. of sugar, and a very little salt. As soon as the water begins to boil add as much flour as the liquor will imbibe. When the paste becomes very thick keep stirring it with a spoon until it is quite done, and then let it cool. After that break into it a sufficient number of eggs to make the paste soft, taking care that it be firm enough to allow you to work it up with the hand, when it may be formed according to fancy. This paste may be glazed, and garnished either with almonds or pistachio nuts. When baking the choux be careful to keep the oven tightly closed. CHOUX A LA DARTOTSE. Proceed as abo,-e, but instead of flour put in the yolka of 6 eggs and the whites of 3 eggs; then add the pounded ratafia, some orange flowers, and 1 gill of warm cream. When all these ingredients are well mixed together drop them in lengths about the size of a finger; egg, and bake them. Before they are entirely done sift a little sugar over them, and when quite done glaze them with a salamander. Serve them hot. CHOUX A LA MECQUE. Put 2 glasses of milk and 2 ozs. of fresh butter into a stew- pan, making them into a paste with a proper quantity of flour. Having dried it a few minutes, add 2 ozs. more of butter and half a glass of milk, and dry it again a little. Take it from the stewpan, and stir into it 2 eggs and 2 ozs. of powder sugar. When well mixed together add 9 more eggs, 1 spoonful of whipped cream, and a grain of salt; lay the choux in a spoon about three inches long, dorez aul mask them with sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. These choux may be flavourei according to taste with orange, lemon, cedrat, &c., by grating either of these fruits on the sugar employed in naaking them. CHOVVDER. Lay some slices cut from the fat part of a belly piece of pork in a deep stew- pan ; mix sliced onions with a variety of sweet herbs, and lay them on the pork; bone and cut a fresh cod into thin slices, and place them on the pork; then put a layer of pork, and o:i that a layer of biscuit; then alternately the other materials, until the pan is nearly full; season with pepper and salt, and put in about 1^ pint of water. Lay a paste over the whole; cover the stewpan very closely, and let it stand, with fire above as well as below, for four hours; then skim it well, and place it in a dish; pour a glass of Madeira, made hot, over it; also some Jamaica pepper, stewed mushrooms, truffles, and oysters. Brown the paste lightly, and lay it over the whole. CHUB, BOILED. Put as much beer, vinegar, and water into a fish-kettle as will cover the fish, a good quantity of salt, and some fennel. Scald and cleanse a chub, and when the water boils put in the fish. When it is sufficiently boiled lay it on a board to drain, and let it lie for an hour. Put it into a pewter dish over a chafing-dish of coals, with melted butter, and serve it very hot. CHUB, BROILED. Scald a chub, cut off the tail and fins, wash it well, and slit it down the m.iddle; make two or three cuts on the back with a knife, and broil it on a wood fire. Baste it all the time it is broiling with fresh butter, salt, and thyme shred finely. CHUB, ROASTED. Scale and thoroughly