FIR FIR [ 497 ] known many who think they emit more heat than any others. How difficult, how impossible, indeed, it is to give rules on any subject! It is scarcely possible to meet with two persons or two writers whose feelings and opinions correspond. Bright steel grates are very beautiful, and are often preferred; but in small establish- ments they are not desirable, because they give so much additional work to the housemaid, and if they are not very carefully attended to they rust and lose their beauty. A clever servant, or an experienced and watchful eye in the lady of the house, is essential to the management of bright grates, and young housekeepers with limited means would do wisely to avoid them.. The common iron grates, when neatly and handsomely constructed, and properly cleaned, are quite good enough for persons of moderate fortune and simple tastes. It is a very good plan to have the whole of the iron- work painted black; it looks better when cleaned, and there is less trouble in cleaning it. If the back and sides of fireplaces are made of stone or brick, much more heat is given out than when they are constructed of iron, which, to use the simplest mode of expression, absorbs more heat than it throws into the room ; while stone and fire brick, on the contraiy, throw out more heat than they absorb. To give the greatest amount of heat the sides of a fireplace should not be at right angles to the front, or, as it is usually described, " straight at the sides," forming a square within the chimney, because the heat would not then be thrown so forward as it would be if the sides were coved, or the " corners cut off," to use a lady's phrase. We will give a description of a grate that we have used for many years in a sitting-room, the warmth and comfort of which are very great, although it is old-fashioned in some respects, and fixed higher than the fashionable grates are now placed. It is consti'ucted of iron, except the cheeks, which are of fire brick. The back and sides are of iron, and this is a defect; but the coved shape of the sides favours the emission of heat, although it would be much greater if they were formed of stone or brick. The height of the lower bar, which rests on the knobs, is exactly twelve inches from the hearth, and there are twelve inches between the upper bar and the frame- work above it. The shape and appearance of the grate are by no means inelegant; but the or- namental part can, of course, be adapted to the taste of the purchaser. Fire brick, when used as cheeks, is apt to break from excessive heat, and require renewal; but it will last a long time, and the trouble and expense of replacing it are trifling. The advantage of small lady-like hobs is by no means to be overlooked by those who enjoy their tea, and like to linger over it. A fireplace without hobs loses a charm as well as a convenience, and we advise every lady to contrive them if she can. Even the present fashionable fireplace, which consists only of an iron bottom and front attached to sides of brick or stone, may be rendered more convenient by having small round flat slabs of iron fixed in the corners on the outside, between the upper bar and the side. If the slabs are perforated like open work, and neatly finished, they are very ornamental also, even in a drawing-room. The size of a grate must be judiciously adapted to the size of the room. A large grate in a small room, or vice versa, is quite out of place and taste, and fuel is wasted in both cases, either by over or under heating the apartment. Small grates are best in bed- rooms, which should never be overheated: nothing is so unwholesome as sleeping in a very warm room to persons in health. If dressing-rooms are attached to sleeping apart- ments it is always desirable that the former should contain the fire; but in moderate houses this is very seldom the case, and many persons suffer so much from cold in the winter that a fire in their room is absolutely necessary. Small grates, therefore, raise the temperature sufficiently without any injurious effect; but if a fire can be dispensed with it is desirable to avoid it, particularly in the morning. The difference there is in our feelings when we leave the room where we have dressed with or without a fire is strikingly in favour of the latter, and it would be a great advantage to young people if they were always brought up to do without this ex- pensive and enervating luxury. Many comforts may be, and very, very often are given up on principle when circumstances change, as they do so frequently in this chequered life; but the virtuous self-denial may be in some cases painful, and even injurious; whereas, if un- accustomed to luxuries in our youth, we scarcely miss their short-lived existence. Small grates for small bedrooms are simply and cheaply made by coving the sides of a chimney, and fixing bars in the brickwork to form the front and bottom of a grate. If a flue runs up the side of a room which contains no fireplace this simple grate may easily be inserted, at the cost of fourteen or fifteen shillings, including every charge ; and, as venti- lation is essential in sleeping rooms, it may thus be secured very cheaply. The width of the fireplace may be proportioned to the size of the room. Stoves are extremely unwholesome in rooms, and unpleasant in their effects. The air be- comes so close and hot that oppression and headache frequently ensue, and there is great 2 K