AST ATT [ 50 ] "Warm water, inhaled from tlie spout of a tea-pot, has afforded relief in severe fits of this complaint; also an infusion of camomile flowers, with the addition of a little ether, may be used for the same purpose, and probably with better effect. In spasmodic asthma smoking tobacco has proved of service. The roots of stramonium, or thorn-apple, have been much employed in the same manner, used moderately, cut into small pieces, and smoked in a common pipe. The dry or spasmodic asthma, during the ex- treme violence of the fit, is best relieved by opium and ether, combined in the following manner :—Take camphor mixture, 6 ozs.; sul- phuric ether, 3 drachms; tincture of opium, 1 drachm; mix. Let 2 table-spoonsful be taken every four or six hours. In the greater number of cases of asthma, indigestion is a prominent symptom, and the patient is much troubled with wind in the stomach. To remove these, the stomachic and absorbent remedies, and bitter infusions, advised under the head of Indigestion, will be proper. Dr. Bree remarks, that " chalk and opium will astonish the asthmatic by the excellence of their effects, when the irritation proceeds from in- digestion of the first passages only." When, then, this is the case, from a scruple to a drachm of the compound powder of chalk with opium may be taken. Small doses of the powder of ipecacuanha, to the amount of 3, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 10 grains, given every other day, according to the strength and constitution of the patient, are found to yield permanent relief in dry asthma, by acting sometimes as an evacuant, pumping up the viscid phlegm; at other times acting as a corrector of spasm, or as a sedative. Asthmatic people are very sensibly affected by changes of the weather. They in general find much difficulty in living, with any tolerable degree of ease, in the atmosphere of large cities; though we sometimes meet with patients with whom this air, so replete with gross effluvia of every kind, agrees better than the purest air that can be met with in country places Great relief is also derived from inhaling the steam of warm water. Asthmatic persons should be careful not to overload the stomach. Asthma is seldom fatal by itself, rarely appears before the age of puberty, and is more frequent in men than in women.—(Forsyth's Domestic Me- dicine, &c.) ASTRINGENTS are substances that are given to contract, or draw together, the parts to which they are applied, either to stop bleeding, in which case they are called styptics, or other excessive discharges, as diarrhcea. ASTRINGENT COLLYRIUM. This is for weak eyes. It is formed by mixing i oz, of compound liquor of alum and 60 drops of laud- anum with 5^ ozs. of rose water. Bathe the eye- lids with it three or four times daily. ASTRINGENT DRAUGHTS. For use * in diarrhcBa. Dried alum, 6 grains ; infusion of roses, 1| oz. fluid; laudanum, 15 drops; syrup of roses, S drachms fluid. This makes one draught, and a similar one is to be taken every six hours. ASTRINGENT PILLS. These, also, are for diarrhoea. Dried alum, 1 scruple ; extract of cinchona, S drachms. Make into 30 pills, and let 3 be taken twice a day. ASTRINGENT POWDER for application to piles and a soft polypus in the nose. Quarter of an ounce of burnt alum and the same quan- tity of very finely-powdered galls, mixed together. ATROPHY is the wasting of a part or of the whole body without any apparent fever or cough. This disease is most common in children, and often proceeds from teething. The patient has a bad appetite, a large stomach, and a sallow complexion; the stools are sometimes white, but always paler than usual, and the bowels are irregular. If teething be the cause, the gums should be lanced, the bowels ought to be attended to, and doses of castor oil, calomel, or rhubarb, given occasionally. Exercise, nourish- ing diet, and sea bathing are useful. The belly should be rubbed with warm sweet oil. For other causes of atrophy see Diaerhcea, Acidity OF THE Stomach, and Riceets. ATTAR, or Otto of Roses, is obtained from the flowers of the musk. Cashmere, and other roses. It is really an essential oil, and it is thus procured. A glazed earthen jar is filled with the petals or flower leaves of the roses, carefully separated from all the green and other parts ; spring water is poured over in sufficient quantity just to cover them. The vessel thus filled is allowed to remain in the sunshine for two or three days, but is taken under cover at night. By the end of the third or fourth day small particles of yellow oil appear floating on the surface of the water, and this oil increases in quantity until, in the course of a week, it forms a thin film upon the water. This film is taken up by means of a little cotton tied to the end of a stick, and the oil thus collected is pressed out of the cotton into a phial. The best comes from Cashmere, the next in quality from Syria, and an inferior attar comes from Barbary. Attar of roses is not agreeable as a perfume by itself, but requires to be diffused. In a favourable season 100 lbs. of rose leaves yield about 3 drachms of attar. In England a very agreeable oil of roses may be prepared by taking 4 ozs. of rose petals, not fully blown, cutting off their lower ends, pound- ing the petals into a pulp in a marble mortar.