FO W [ 517 ] FOR young onions, and mushrooms shred finely, and seasoned with salt or mixed spices, moisten- ing with two eggs mixed with half a pint of cream. When the forcemeat is finished cover the bottom of a pie dish with paste, and put the forcemeat over it about the thickness of an inch, completing the pie the same as all others. Let it balie for two hours, but if made of beef or mutton still longer. When it is done open the pie, cut the forcemeat into squares, skim off the fat, and put in a good cuUis. FORCEMEAT FOR PIES. Take 1 lb. of fillet of veal, J lb. of fresh pork, and some beef marrow; season with pepper, cloves, and grated nutmeg ; then add some veal sweetbreads, truffles, and mushrooms, mincing up the whole very finely together. Instead of veal you may use, if you please, the white part of any poultry or game, or both in equal quantities, and in- stead of pork, sausage meat. It is with this stuffing or forcemeat that meat pies are gar- nished. If you desire to make this forcemeat into balls add the yolks of eggs, and roll them in flour. FORCEMEAT, RAW, PIE. Take a fillet of veal chopped, with calf's udder scalded, raw breasts of poultry, beef suet, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two or three raw eggs. When well pounded and seasoned make it into balls, or into the shape of sausages; put them into the pie, and if you choose you may add arti- choke bottoms, mushrooms, truffles, sweetbreads, &c., with some butter. Finish the same as all other pies. FORCEMEAT FOR TURKEY. Mince I lb. of beef suet, or rather marrow, the same quantity of bread crumbs, 2 drachms of parsley leaves, 1^ drachm of sweet marjoram or lemon thyme, as much of grated leraon-peel, an onion or shallot chopped very finely, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Pound these thoroughly together with the yolks and whites of two eggs, the soft part of twelve oysters, an anchovy, or a little grated ham or tongue. Pork sausage meat is sometimes used to stuff turkeys and fowls; or it may be fried, and sent up as a garnish. FORCEMEAT FOR TURTLE. Take 1 lb. of fine fresh suet, 1 oz. of ready-dressed veal or chicken chopped finely, crumbs of bread, a little shallot or onion, salt, pepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, parsley, and lemon thyme, shred finely. Beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make the ingredients into a moist paste; roll it into small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it boils. When they are of a light brown colour take them out, and drain them before the fire. If the suet happens to be moist or stale it will be necessary to use a great many more eggs. Balls made in this way are remarkably light, but rather greasy. Some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. FORCEMEAT FOR VEAL. Mix 1 lb. of scraped veal with half the quantity of fat bacon in a mortar, adding the crumbs of a stale French roll, half a tea-spoonful of powdered nutmeg and mace, a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Mix these thoroughly together with two well-beaten eggs. FORD'S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND. See Balsam of Horehodnd. FOTHERGILL'S PILLS. Socotrine aloes, 1 drachm; scammony, | drachm ; extract of colocynth, 1 drachm; antimonial powder, i drachm. Make into a mass with syrup of buckthorn. Divide into forty-eight pills, and take two at bedtime. FOWL : To Bone. Cut through the skin down the centre of the back, and raise the flesh carefully on each side with the point of a sharp knife until the sockets of the wings and thighs are reached. With the point of the knife detach the joints, and till a little practice has been gained it will perhaps be better to bone these joints by passing the knife carefully between the bone and flesh, and pulling out the bone before proceeding further; but after they are once detached from it the whole body may be easily separated from the flesh, and taken out entire. Only the neck bones and merrythought will then remain to be removed, and can be easily cut away. It is usual to leave the pinions unboned, in order to give more easily its natural form to the fowl when it is dressed. The bird, thus prepared, may be restored to its original form by filling the legs and wings with forcemeat, or thin slices of the nicest bacon, or anything else of good flavour, which will give a marbled appear- ance to the fowl when it is carved, and then be sewn up and trussed as usual; or the legs and wings may be drawn inside the body, and the bird, being first flattened on a table, may be covered with sausage meat, and the various other ingredients we have named so placed that it shall be of equal thickness in every part; then tightly rolled, bound firmly together with a fillet of broad tape, wrappei^ a thin pudding cloth, closely tied at both ends, and dressed as follows :—Put it into a braising pan, stewpan, or thick iron saucepan bright in the inside, and fitted as nearly as may be to its size ; add all the chicken bones, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cari'ots, two bay leaves, a large blade of mace, twenty-four white peppercorns, and any trim- mings or bones of undi essed veal which may be at hand ; cover the whole with good veal broth, add salt if needed, and stew very softly from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half; let it cool in the li([uor in which it was stewed, and