BAG [ S7 ] bacon every day for a month. Drain and smoke it a few days, or hang it up in the Idtchen far from the fire. The Wiltshire method is this :— Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let it drain twenty-four hours; then mix lb. of coarse sugar, the same quantity of baj' salt, somewhat less than | lb. of saltpetre, and 1 lb. of common salt. Rub this well over the bacon, and turn it every day for a month ; then hang it up to dry, and afterwards smoke it ten days. The quantity to salt here mentioned will be enough for a whole hog. Smoking bacon is much better than merely drying it. In order to do this rub the flitches well, on the flesh side, with bran or fine saw- dust (not of fir or deal), and hang them in a chimney out of the way of rain, and not near enough the fire to melt. The smoke must be from wood (elm is best), stubble or litter (not fir or deal wood). If the fire is tolerably constant and good a month s smoking will do. The flitches should hang till quite dry, but not long enough to be hard. To preserve them from hoppers sift some clear, dry ashes of wood, turf or peat, or very dry sand; put some at the bottom of a chest or box long enough to hold the flitches; lay in one flitch, which cover with 6 or 8 inches of ashes, and then another flitch in the same way. If the ashes get damp dry them by the fire, and replace them in the box. In this way the bacon will keep fresh and sweet as long as ever you want to keep it. We have heard that if the bacon is whitewashed over two or three times it will keep equally well on a rack; but this we never tried, and therefore cannot answer for it. BACON: To Cure (Buckinghamshere). The time of killing hogs in this county is soon after Michaelmas. The butcher performs his office by cutting the throat of the animal, when the blood is caught for making black-puddings. Some straw being spread on the gi'ound the hog is then laid upon it, and, being covered with a fresh quantity, it is set on fire; and this is repeated till both sides are completely singed. The carcase is then thoroughly scraped ; the entrails are taken out, and laid aside for various uses. After this the hog is placed upon a chopping-stool, the head taken off, and a chine cut out the whole length of the back. The hams are next separated, then the spareribs, and, lastly, the bladebones from the flitches, with as much meat as can be properly taken off. The internal parts are appropriated to immediate use ; the chines, head, tongue, and hocks are salted, and the other parts eaten fresh. The bacon and haras are thus cured. Having re- duced to powder about -^Ib. of saltpetre, the meat is well rubbed with it, and the next day 8 lbs. or 4 lbs. of common salt are heated with 1 lb. of coarse sugar over the fire, and when quite hot rubbed equally over the bacon and hams, which are next put with the skin side downwards in a salting vessel. The proportion for the ham is 2 lbs. of salt, and for the two flitches 6 lbs. or 7 lbs., with 1 lb. of sugar. Both the bacon and hams must remain a month in the pickle, being turned therein once or twice a week. When thoroughly done the hams and sides are hung upon the rack or in the chimney, without any extraordinary smoke. BACON: To Cure (Somersetshire). On killing a hog the flitches are placed in wooden troughs and sprinkled over with bay salt. In this state they are left to drain twenty-four hours, then taken out and wiped dry. Fresh bay salt is then heated in a frying-pan, and the troughs having been cleaned out, the flitches ai'e replaced, and the hot salt rubbed over them. This process is repeated four days, the flitches being turned each time. If they are large they are left in the brine three weeks, and afterwards dried without smoke. BACON AND BEANS. When you dress beans and bacon, boil the bacon by itself, and the beans by themselves, for the bacon will spoil the colour of the beans. Always throw some salt into the water, and some parsley, nicely picked. When the beans are done enough, which you will know by their being tender, throw them into a cullender to drain. Take up the bacon and skin it; throw some raspings of bread over the top, and if you have an iron make it red hot and hold it over it to brown the top of the bacon; if you have Jiot one, set it before the fire to brown. Lay the beans in the dish, and the bacon in the middle on the top, and send them to table with parsley and butter in a sauce-boat. BACON AND CABBAGE. Boil some fine streaked bacon with a little stock, and the ends of eight or ten sausages ; boil in the same stock some cabbages for about two hours; add salt and spices, and serve very hot. Place your cab- bages and sausages alternately round the dish, and the bacon in the middle. BACON AND EGGS Take some fine sti'eaked bacon, rather more lean than fat, cut it into thin slices, and next into small, square pieces; throw them into a stewpan, and set it over a good fire. When the fat is drawn from the slices of bacon lay them on a warm dish , then put into a stewpan a ladleful of melted bacon fat or lard ; set it on a stove ; add thereto about twelve of tlie pjieces of meat; then incline the pan and break in an egg. If this is properly done the yolk of the egg will be whole, and soon done. Care must be taken that the yolks do not harden. Lay each egg carefully m a warm dish, and do the same with the rest