C 64 ] BAN BAR Terance than people iu general are able cr disposed to bestow. Hence we cannot suppress a remark made by the ingenious Levret, that this species of neglect is attended with more important consequences to the female than the male sex; for, as deformities of the lower ex- tremities are very frequently connected with similar malconformations of those bones which form the waist, we may hence account for the repeated abortions in many mothers who pay the strictest attention to diet and every other circumstance during the period of gestation. This unfortunate deformity, however, cannot be easily remedied after the child has arrived at a certain age; and we believe all attempts would be fruitless, and even hurtful, after the sixth or seventh year; yet tliere are instances on record where nature, unassisted by art, has occasionally performed a cure. BANNOCK was a cake much used formerly in Scotland, manufactured of the meal of peas and barley ground up together. The meal was r"ade into unfermented dough, rolled out into roniid cakes, or bannocks, a foot in diameter and three quarters of an inch thick, aad baked on a griddle. BARBADOES CREAM is a liquor prepared by soaking 12 bruised cloves, J oz. of bruised cinnamon, and ^ oz. of lemon-peel, in 5 quarts of rectified spirit for twelve hours. Put the whole into a still, and draw off about 5 pints, or till milkiness is apparent. Or the same in- gredients, after soaking for a week, may merely have the liquor strained from them through blotting-paper. BARBADOES TAR is really a native naphtha found in Barbadoes, and other places within the tropics, and is there highly esteemed by the inhabitants as a sudorific and in dis- orders of the breast and lungs ; though in cases of this kind attended with inflammation it is certainly improper. The dose is from 10 drops to i drachm. They likewise apply it exter- nally as a discutient, and for preventing para- lytic disorders. An oil extracted from a kind of stone-coal has been extolled among the common people, under the name of British oil, for rheumatic pains, &c. The celebrated Egyptian mummies were im- pregnated with a similar liquid. This substance is also supposed to have been the principal ingredient in the Greek fire. It was the basis of the varnish which" Stradivarius used for his violins. One part of asphaltum, dissolved with- out heat in five parts of naphtha, gives a black- ish brown liquor, which, when dried with care, leaves the asphaltum in the form of a black shining vamish. BARBELS: To Boil. Boil them in salt and water; when sufiSciently done pour away part of the water, and put to the rest 1 pint of red wine, some salt and Aanegar, 2 sliced onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, some nutmeg, mace, and the juice of a lemon; boil these well together with 2 or 3 anchovies ; then put in the fish; simmer a short time, and serve it with the sauce strained over it. Shrimps and oysters may be added. BARBELS : To Stew. Take a large barbel; scale, clean, and wash it in vinegar and salt, and afterwards in water; then put it into a stewpan with a sufi&ciency of eel broth to cover it, and add some cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bit of cinnamon. Let them stew gently till the fish is done ; then take it out, thicken the sauce with butter and flour, pour it over the fish, and serve it up. BARBERRIES: To Candy. Take the bar- berries out of the preserve and wash off the syrup in warm water ; then sift over them some fine sugar, and set them in an oven, often moving them, and strewing sugar upon them till they are dry. BARBERRIES, PRESERVED. Take out the stones, tie six bunches to a small stick, and put them in a sieve; have ready a preserving pan with sugar, and boil the syrup half an hour, put the fruit therein; boil and skim the same with paper ; give the barberries sis or seven boil- ings, skimming as before ; then put them into an earthen pan, and cover them close; after which remove them into pots. BARBERRY BISCUITS. Press the juice of 2 lbs. of bai'berries through a sieve, and mix with it 5 lbs. of sifted sugar; whisk the whites of 4 eggs, and add them to the fruit; prepare some square paper cases, fill them with the jam, make them quite smooth, lay them on sieves, and put them into a stove, and let them remain six or eight days. When perfectly dry take away the papers. Keep them in a dry place. BARBERRY CREAM. Put 1 spoonful of barberry jam into a basin, with 1 pint of cream; squeeze in the juice of 1 lemon, and mix the whole, with the addition of some cochineal to colour it. Put it into the freezing-pot, and, having covered it, place it in a pail in the middle of ice, over which throw some salt. Turn the pot round for ten minutes, then open and scrape it from the sides; cover it again, and keep turning till the cream is as thick as butter; put it into moulds, and set them in a pail covered with ice and salt for three quarters of an hour till the water comes up to the top Use plenty of salt, or the cream will not freeze. Dip the mould in water, and turn out the cream on a plate when about to send it to table. Other fruits may be done in the same way. BARBERRY ICE. Put some barberries into a pan without water; set it over a gentle