[ ^ ] AGE AGI ACIDITY OF THE STOMACH. This is commonly called heartburn. There is a disagreeable taste in the mouth, an anxious, uneasy sensation in the stomach, eructations, accompanied sometimes with an upward dis- charge of clear, thin, acrid fluid. It is usually caused by an excessive partaking of fatty meats, fermented liquors, pie or pudding crust, or sugar, or sweetmeats, preserves, &c. To prevent acidity, therefore, avoid those kinds of food which experience teaches the patient are the cause. A diet chiefly of animal food, and from 5 to 10 drops of liquor potassa, taken with one'of the patient's meals twice a day, will usually re- move an attack. Then for a week or two take a draught twice a day, formed of i oz. of infusion of quassia, mixed with 1 drachm of tartrate of potash, and 1 drachm of tincture of cinnamon. Carbonates of magnesia and soda are sometimes taken to remove acidity; but the magnesia is hurt- ful to those liable to piles, and soda is weakening. Acidity in the Stomach of an Infant may be cured by giving it a table-spoonful, or half that quantity if less than six months old, of the following mixture :—Rub 1 drachm of magnesia in a mortar with 12 grains of powdered rhubarb, adding 3 ozs. of water, 1 oz. of simple cinnamon water, and 1 oz. of simple syrup. Shake the mixture before using. ADDER, BITE OF THE. Persons bitten should immediately suck the wound, or have it sucked by some one else if not within their own reach. The poison of the adder is perfectly harmless, even if swallowed. It is only in- jurious by being absorbed into the blood through a wound. Also, let a piece of string be tied very tight round the limb immediately above the wound, to prevent the blood conveying the poison into the system until the wound has been cauterised. Let medicines to promote perspiration be taken also, and for this purpose oz. of solution of acetate of ammonia in an equal quantity of water is a good dose. Bathing the wound with eau de Luce, or spirit of harts- horn, is also a good application, and should always be adopted. The symptoms attendant on the bite of an adder are acute pain about the wound, attended with swelling, and at first a redness, but after- wards a livid colour around the part. If the poison has been absorbed into the system, faiiit- ness is felt, the pulse becomes small and inter- mitting, sickness occurs, and the skin becomes yellowish. Death rarely occurs from the bite of the English adder, or viper, as it is sometimes ADHESIVE PLASTER. &e Plaster. ADULTERATIONS. These are too gene- rally caused by the purchaser's craving after low-priced articles; but whether so caused, or arising from the covetous and unprincipled act of the vendor, we shall point out under the head of the article adulterated what are the undesired ingredients mixed with it, and the best modes of detecting them. ^OLIAN HARP. This musical instrument, named after ^olus, god of the winds in the old mythology, emits soft and harmonious notes merely from a current of air passing over its strings. It is made as follows:—Let a box be made of well-seasoned deal, not more than one- fourth of an inch thick; in length exactly the width of the window in which it is to be placed ; in depth 4 inches and in width 6 inches. Glue on the top of this box, at its two ends, two pieces of wainscot, | inch high and i inch thick, to serve as bridges for the strings; withinside the box. at each end, glue two pieces of beech wood, about 1 inch square, and of length equal to the width of the box. Into this beech wood holes must be bored, into which holes the pegs of the strings are to pass. The strings must be of catgut, the size of the first string of the violin, and they are fastened round pegs like those of the violin, and the pegs inserted in the holes at the opposite ends of the box. The strings should be parallel, not drawn tight, and tuned in unison. To procure a proper passage for the wind a thin board, supported by a peg at each corner, is placed over the strings at about 4 inches from the top of the box. The instrument must be placed before the opening made by raising the lower sash of the window to about a level with the strings. To increase the current of air an opposite window or door may be opened. When the wind blows the strings emit sound in unison, and, in pro- portion to its force, change variously through the notes of the diatonic scale, often forming most pleasing harmonic combinations. CRATED WATERS. feSEiDLiTzPowDEE, Soda Water, and Mineral Waters. AGE, OLD. A healthful, cheerful old age is one of the blessings bestowed upon man in this world ; and no one ever attained to it who did not, throughout his youth and his manhood, keep his feet warm by exercise and his head cool by temperance. Having attained to length of days, then arises the consideration of how to prolong them in health. Age is very different from infirmity, for one person is more decayed at 40 than another per- son is at 60. The following, in general, are the septennial stages of existence:— The teeth are renewed at the seventh year 7 Puberty arrives at twice seven . . .14 Full stature at thrice seven . . . . 21 The vigour of growth at four times seven . 28 Greatest vigour of body and mind at five times seven 35 Commencement of decay at six times seven 42