cue r 383 ] cue of tliree eggs, draw a knife dipped in a beaten egg over the whole, cover with grated bread, and then fry it. CUCUMBER VINEGAR. Pare and cut in slices 15 large cucumbers, put them into a stone jar, with 3 pints of vinegar, 4 large onions cut in slices, 3 shallots, a little garlic, 2 large spoonsful of salt, 3 tea-spoonsful of pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pepper. After leaving them to stand four days give the whole a boil; when cold strain and filter the liquor through paper, put it into small bottles, and use it for salad or with cold meat. CUCUMBERS: To Pkeserve (1). Make choice of those which are small and not too old. Put them into jars, and pour over them a brine. ' To make the brine take two-thirds of water and one of vinegar to several pounds of -alt, according to the quantity of brine you wish to make, 1 lb. to 3 pints ; put it over the fire till the salt is melted, let it stand to settle, and before you use it pour it off clear. When you wish to use them take the rind off, and dress them in the same way as fresh cucumbers. CUCUMBERS : To Presekve (2). Split and take the seeds from the number of cucum- bers you intend to use ; lay them for three days in strong salt and water, with a little alum, and boil them till tender; drain, and let them lay in a thin syrup for two days ; then boil the syrup again, and pour it over the cucumbers ; repeat this operation twice more; then, having boiled to sou ffle some clarified sugar, put them in it, and simmer them for five minutes; the next day boil both up again, when they may be put by for use. CUCUMBERS, BLANQUETTE OF. Pare and stew your cucumbers in a little sauce tournee and sugar; then drain them, reduce the liquor, thicken it with the yolks of four eggs, and when wanted for table put in the cucumbers. CUCUMBERS AND CREAM (]). Pare and cut into squares some small cucumbei's; then put them into salt and water, first letting it boil up. When the cucumbers become soft to the touch take them out of the salt and water, let them diain in a cloth, make a thick sauce a, la crane, put the cucumbers into it, and serve. CUCUMBERS AND CREAM (2). Your cucumbers being pared and the seeds taken out, cut them into dice, blanch them, and then put them into a saucepan, with a little melted butter, parsley and scallions shred small, salt, pepper, morels, and goodbrotli; let them stew for some time over a gentle fire. When done add the yolks of eggs beaten up with cream, and a small piece of butter. To the sauce may be added a little verjuice if you think proper. CUCUMBERS, DRIED. Take some pre- served ciicumbers, wash all the syrup from them* put them on sieves to drain, and then into a stove. One day is enough to let them dry. When dry take them out, paper a box, ana put them in it, with a paper between every layer of cucumbers. CUCUxMBERS, ESSENCE OF. Take the parings from your cucumbers, and make a puree of them with a little butter, which must be drained off as soon as melted, and the puree diluted with the sauce tournee, in which the cucumbers have been dressed as for Blanquette, they being put to drain. When the puree is very thick mix with it four spoonsful of veloute and a little sugar, and then strain it; toss up the scallops in it, and add a little thick cream if not sufficiently white. Season it well, and serve it quite hot. CUCUMBERS, GARNITURE OF (au Blanc). Pare and cut your cucumbers into square pieces, and then trim them into the form of oyster shells; blanch them in a little salt. When done drain, and then toss them up in a little butter; add some sauce tournee, and thicken them with the yolks of eggs. CUCUMBERS, GARNITURE OF (at; Bbun). Prepare the cucumbers as for Blanc ; then put the slices in a pan, with water, salt, pepper, vinegar, and sliced onions ; soak them in this for some hours; then drain and press them in a cloth; put them into a saucepan, with butter, stock, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When done put a little gravy to them, and serve. They may also be fried in grated bacon, in which case they should be moistened with oil and vinegar. CUCUMBERS AU GRAS. Pare and take the seeds from your cucumbers, cut them into slices an inch thick, and throw them into cold water; then soak them in a glass of hot broth and the same of vinegar; drain and dip them into batter, and fry them in lard. Glaze them with powder sugar as you take them out of the pan. CUCUMBERS, POTTAGE OF (1). Cut your cucumbei's into small oval pieces, and blanch them for ten minutes; let them cool and drain; put some slices of bacon into a stewpan, and then the cucumbers ; cover them with bacon, and add carrots, onions, pepper, and two cloves; let them stew thus for half an hour. Put some bread in a soup dish, and pour over it a sufficient quantity of stock or broth to soak it well. Lay the cucumbers on it, pass the liquor through a sieve, take off the fat. and pour it on the pottage. CUCUMBERS, POTTAGE OF (2). Pare and split two cucumbers into four parts, and, having taken out the seeds, cut each Quarter into round slices as nearly of a size as