[ 534 ] FUL FRTJ fruit are uniformity of temperature, coolness, aud darkness. If the temperature is uniform there can be little or no deposition of moisture on the surface of the fruit; but if the air of the room should be say ten degrees warmer than the fruit, then the relative coldness of the latter will cause a condensation of the moisture contained in the air in contact with the fruit, just as a cold glass becomes dewed over when brought into a warm atmosphere. If the air is indeed very dry, then a proportionably greater difference of temperature is necessary to produce the above effect; but in winter the hygi'ometer seldom requires to be cooled more than a few degrees before it indicates a deposition of moisture. Fruits with smooth glossy skins, in close con^ tact with the cold substance beneath them, are those most profusely covered with moisture from the above cause. In russeted varieties their dry rough coats serve as non-conductors of heat, and hence less moisture is deposited on them. When the air becomes colder than the fruit a contrary action—that of evaporation-^ takes place, and the surface of the fruit becomes dry; but this wetting and drying must prove very injurious, whilst their cause, alternations of temperature, must likewise affect the specific gravity of the juices of the fruit. It may be remarked that in giving air a period of the day should be chosen when the thermometer outside indicates tlie same tem- perature as that in the room. No deposition of moisture can then take j^lace in consequence. With regard to coolness, it is well known that this condition is favourable to the long keeping of fruit, for we act on the contrary when we wish to render any variety fit for use before its usual time. The fruit room in question must be cooler on an average than if it had been on the ground; for the latter, under a building particularly, is much warmer than the air in winter. Light accelerates the maturity and ultimate decay of fruit exposed to its intluence. If the soundest specimens are picked and placed opposite a window, they soon become much inferior in appearance compared with those from which the light is excluded, all other circumstances being the same. Those who have not a specially constructed fruit room will find their apples and pears keep extremely well in broini pans, with closely ^fitting covers, jjlaced in a cool dryish cellar. FRUITS, CHEMISE OF. Prepare them as for the caramel in every respect, but have something firm and soft to stick tbem upright in ; dip them in nice prepared isinglass or well- whipped white of egg, hold them over white paper, and sift over them double-refined sugar in the finest powder, which may be coloured to give more effect to the different fruits. FRUMENTY. Boil a quart of fine wheat, and gradually add thereto a couple of quarts of new milk. Wash 4 ozs. of currants, stir them in the jelly, and boil the whole together till thoroughly done. Beat up the yolks of three eggs with a little nutmeg and two or three spoonsful of milk, and add this to the boiled frumenty. Sweeten it with sugar, and serve it hot or cold. FUEL. See Coal, Coke, Charcoal, Wood, &e. FULLERS' EARTH is a mineral composed of siliceous sand, alumiua (clay), magnesia, lime, potash, &c. Its utility arises from the four constituents last named. This earth is hard, firm, aud of a compact texture, but soft to the touch, and neither stains the hands nor easily breaks between the fingers. Its surface is somewhat rough and harsh, it dissolves easily in the mouth, and in a slight degree adheres to the tongue. When thrown into water it does not cause any effervescence, but gradually in- creases in size, and subsides iu a fine soft powder. The finest fullers' earth in the world is ob- tained from the pits at Wavedon, near Wobum, Bedfordshire, where strata of it are found at the depth of ten or twelve feet from the surface of the ground. This earth is also found in abundance, and of a good quality, in pits near Brick-hill, in the county of Stafford; near Rye- gate, Surrey; Maidstone, Kent; and in the vicinity of Nutley and Petworth, in the county of Sussex, Incalculable quantities of fullers' earth are consumed in this country in the scouring of cloths, stuffs, &c., for which it is of the greatest utility, as it imbibes all the grease and oil used in the preparing, dressing, &c., of wool. As an article of domestic economy it might be more frequently employed than it is at present, espe- cially in the cleaning and scouring of wooden floors and wainscots, being an excellent sub- stitute for soap. Fullers' Earth Balls. These are useful for renaoyiijg grease spots from cloth, aud are prepared as follows:—Take fullers' earth, and dry it before the fire or in the sun until it crumbles to powder; moisten it with strained lemon juice, add a small quantity of fine pearl- ash, and knead the whole up together till it acquires the consistence of stiff elastic paste. Mould it into any shape you please, and dry the balls thoroughly in the sun ; they are then ready for use as follows:—Moisten the spot on the cloth with water, then rub it with the ball, and place it in the sun to dry; next beat out the dust, wash the cloth with clean water, and the spot will disappear. See also Balls, Clothes, and Balls, Scdurin