BOR [ 133 ] BOR tricts. Of the four named, tlie i^nfitte is gene- rally preferred on account of its softness on the palate, briglit colour, and exquisite perfume, ■which partakes of the violet and raspberry. The Chateau-Margaux has the same delicate quali- ties, but not quite so high a flavour; while the Latour has a fuller body, and the Haut-Brion is stronger than either, requiring considerable time to mellow in the wood and the bottle be- fore it arrives at perfection. The second-rate clarets are innumerable, and of various quali- ties, some approaching the first-rate wines, and usually substituted for them in this countiy. The adulteration of clarets is great, and unless purchased in bond or of a wine-merchant of established character, you can never be certain that the article is genuine. Average clarets contain about 15 per cent, of alcohol; good red clarets, such as the Haut-Brion and the Haut- Talanu, contain nearly 15 per cent.; and the amber-coloured clarets, such as the Barsac and the Sauterne, contain about 14 per cent. Most of the prime clarets, such as the Lafitte, the Latour, the Chateau-Margaux, the Leoville, and the Rauzan, have a deep purple colour, a deli- cate flavour, and more or less of a violet per- fume ; and some other good kinds, such as the Haut-Brion and the Merignac, resemble the better sorts of Burgundj', but are rougher. Some of the red sorts, such as the Canon and the St. Emilion, have a harsh taste, and an odour somewhat like that of bui'ning sealing- wax ; and many of the best-known white sorts, such as the Laugon, the Cerons, the Preignar, the Beaumes, and the Buset, are of inferii r quality. The wine of the first quality at its point of" maturity ought to have a beautiful colour, much fineness, a very agreeable bouquet, and a flavour which embalms the mouth — strength without intoxicating, and body without harshness. The Bordeaux wines are, contrary to the generality of the French wines, improved by a sea-voyage ; and wines of the second and third quality, after a voyage, have equalled those of the first. The English houses at Bordeaux, immediately after the vintage, purchase a large quantity of the wines of all the best vine3'ards, in order that they may undergo their English preparation. This operation consists in putting into fermenta- tion part of the wines during the following sum-> mer by mixing in each barrel from 13 to 18 pots of Alicant or Berricarlo, or the wines of the Hermitage, Cahors, Languedoc, and others ; one pot of white wine, called imiet (wine the ferment- ation of which has been stopped by the fumes of sulphur), and one bottle of the spirit of wine. The wine is drawn off in December, and then laid up in cellars for some years. By this ope- ration the wines are rendered more spirituous and veiy strong; they acquire a good flavour, but are intoxicating. The price likewise is increased. The age of wine at Bordeaux is counted by the number of times the vine has been in leaf since the vintage. The years which wines require to be kept vary, but those of this department do not reach perfection before the fifth and sixth year. Tlie Bordeaux wines are divided into vins de Medoc, des Graves, des Palus, des Cotes, des Terres Fortes, and vins d'Entre-deiix-Mers. The vineyai'ds of Medoc occupy a territory of twenty leagues in length and one in breadth, and furnish the best wines. They ai"e divided into the High and Low Medoc; the latter is much inferior. Les Graves are gravelly lands reaching from Bordeaux to about three leagues from the town. Les Pahts are alluvial lands between the Garonne and Dordogne. The wine is very deep coloured, full bodied, harsh, and coarse in the first years, but improves and becomes excellent by keeping. They are called cargo wines, because they are preferred for long voyages. Les Cotes are hills which border upon the Garonne and the Gironde, from Lanjon to Blayes. Their wines have a good body and colour. Les Terres Fortes are those of Medoc where there is no gravel. That part which is between the Garonne and the Gironde is called Entre deux-Mers. The wines are of low quality. Red Wines of the First Quality. The vineyard Lafitte. produces wines light, very fine, very smooth, full of flavour and bouquet. La- tour, between Pauillac and St. Lambert, pro- duces wines which have more body and substance, much flavour and bouquet, but are less fine and smooth. Le Chateau-Margaux, leagues from Bordeaux, furnitihes wines distinguished for much lightness and fineness, a fine bouquet, and very smooth; but their flavour is less aromatic than those of Lafitte. Le Haut-Brion is in Les Graves ; its wines have more body and spirit than the preceding, a flavour more aromatic but less bouquet; they require to be kept six or seven years in cask. The flavour in the wines of the first quality is compared to the odour of the best sealing-wax when burning; and the bouquet partakes of the smell of the violet or raspberry. They have all a fine colour and delicate flavour, light, less warm than Burgundy, with a violet perfume and a rich purple hue. Red Wines of the Secokd Quality. Eozan wine is of the same quality as the Chateau- Margaux, but not so perfect. Goree wines are like those of Lafitte, but sold at one eighth less. Leoville and Larose wines abound with flavour and bouquet. i3ra)!e Mo!<?on, separated from La- fitte only by a path, produces wines light, fine, and silky, resembling those of Lafitte. Fichon