t 432 3 PRO it as much sifted sugar as -will make it of a proper consistence. Let the drops dry of themselves without the application of heat. DROPS, VANILLA. Make as cinnamon, using a little sugar to pound the vanilla. Use sufficient to give a good flavour, or it may be moistened with essence of vanilla; but this greases it like chocolate. DROPSY. A dropsy is a collection of serous or whey-like fluid, contained in the cellular membrane in the viscera or circumscribed cavities of the body, impeding or pi'eventing the functions of life, and receiving different names, according to the particular situation in which it is contained. First, then, of Dropsy ok the Cellular Mkmbrane (Ana- sarca). This species of dropsy arises from a serous humour, diffused between the skin and flesh, or rather, from what is termed a general accumulation df lymph in the cellular system. It shows itself at first with d swelling of the feet and ankles towards the evening, which for a time disappears again in the morning. The swelling is soft and inelastic, and when pressed upon by the finger retains the mark or impression thus made for some time after. The swelling by degrees ascends upwards and occupies the trunk of the body ; at length the face and eye- lids appear full and bloated; breathing becomes difficult; the urine is small iu quantity, high coloured, and deposits a reddish sediment; the belly is bound ; perspiration is obstructed ; the countenance assumes a yellow tint; there is considerable thirst, with a wasting of the whole body. To these symptoms torpor and heaviness, a troublesome cough, and low fever succeed. In some cases the water oozes out through the pores of the scarf skin; but in others, where the fluid is too gross to escape by these, it raises the skin in small blisters, &c. The causes of dropsy are a hereditnry or family predisposition, frequent salivations, ex- cessive and long-continued evacuations, free use of spirituous and fermented liquors (which never fail to destroy the powers of digestion), indurations of the abdominal viscera, &c., pre- ceding complaints, as the jaundice, diari'hcea, dysentery, consumption, asthma, gout, agues of long continuance, scarlet fever, some dis- .' eases of the eruptive kind, &c., with whatever disposes the body to a state of preternatural relaxation. The disease is always to be regarded as admitting more readily of a cure when it arises from local weakness or general debility than when it has been occasioned by venereal obstruc- tion, as likewise when it is recent than when of long continuance. The skin becoming some- what moist, with a diminution of thirst, and an increase in the flow pf urine, are to be considered as very favourable symptoms. In some few- cases nature makes powerful efforts of her own accord, and the disease goes off spontaneously either by vomiting, purging, or an unusual dis- charge of urine; but this does not frequently happen. At an early stage of dropsy issues made with caustic below one or both knees, blisters, and the application of colewort leaves have been employed to evacuate the fluid, as well as slight • scarifications made into the cellular membrane, as deep incisions into dropsical parts are apt to run into gangrene. Emetics, purgatives, dia- phoretics, and diuretics are also used for the purpose of exciting the excretions to carry off the fluid ; but if these are found to weaken the patient without alleviating the disease they must not be continued. An emetic of the sulphate of copper appears the most proper, as having less tendency to exhaust the strength of the patient than any ether generally used, e.g.:—Take sulphate of copper, 5 to 10 grains ; powder of ipecacuanha, 5 grains. To be taken every second or third morning. As a purgative, with a view of carrying off a portion of the water collected by stool, take scammony, 12 grains ; submuriate of mercury, 5 grains; powdered ginger, 6 grains. Mix for a dose. Or, take extract of elaterium, 7^ grains ; sulphate of potass, ^scruple; hard soap, i drachm; powdered ginger, i drachm. Mix the sulphate of potass and the elaterium together ; then add the ginger; afterwards blend dl together with the soap, moisten with water, make the whole into a mass, and divide it into pills, of which take one or two every hour until the bowels are freely unloaded. This is a very excellent form of administering elaterium (wild cucumber) iu dropsical and other cases, where it is desirable to have recourse to this active medicine. Purgatives, to be used with advantage in dropsical cases, shou'd be repeated at as short intervals as the patient can bear, for, when purging is not carried to the degree of quickly exciting absorption, the evacuation weakens the system and increases the afflux of fluids to the hydropic parts. The supertartrate of potass (cream of tartar- or crystals of tartar) is a very powerful remedy, and is administered in doses of two or three drachms every hour till copious evacuations are produced either by urine or stool, using at the same time tepid diluent driniis plentifully. This medicine should be taken every or every other morning, according to the strength of the patient; and, as thirst is a very distressing symptom in this disease, the patient should be allowed to take as much water or-mild mucilaginous liquids^