ANI C 22 ] AN I Cod sounds, or the swim bladder of the larger cod, are reckoned a great delicacy when properly preserved. It is not usual for the skin of any animal to be eaten—though the skin of some sorts of fish which are pulpy and gelatinous are relished, as the skin of calves' heads is used for mock turtle-soup. The flavour of fish depends greatly on their food, which, it is supposed, is the main cause of the difference between fresh and salt-water fish, and between the same sorts of fish taken in different lakes and rivers, and on different parts of the coast. Some shell-fish, such as mussels and cockles, are occasionally found to disagree with some particular constitutions ; but it is not true that this arises from their feeding on copper banks. Some say that it is from the persons eating the beard, or fibres, by which the mussels attach themselves to the rocks, which is not, we think, probable. The limpet {Patella vulgata), the periwinkle (Turbo littoreus), the whelk {Murex antiquus), are used as food, boiled by the common people in various districts of this country. The crusta- ceous shell-fish of sufficient size are very gene- rally esculent. These chiefly belong to the family of Cancer. Hence, several species of crabs, both short and long-tailed, are eaten. The lobster, the crawfish, the shrimp, and the prawn belong to this class. ANIMATION, SUSPENDED. The fol- lowing directions emanate from the Royal Humane Society:— Caution. Never hold the body up by the feet. Never let it be rolled on casks. Avoid all rough usage. Use no salt in case of apparent death. Process of recovery.—The drowned.—1. Con- vey the body carefully, with the head slightly raised, to the nearest receiving-house, or other most convenient place. ^. Strip and dry the body ; clean the mouth and nostrils. 3. Lay it on a blanket or bed in a warm room, in the winter; in summer, it may be exposed to the sun. 4. The body to be gently rubbed with flannel; a heated warming-pan covered with flannel, or warm bricks similarly covered, to be lightly moved over the body and along the spine, when this can be done without interrupting the pro- cess of restoring breathing. Warm bricks, covered, or bottles of warm water, to be placed in the hams and armpits, and to be applied to the palms, soles, and pit of the stomach. 5. To restore breathing introduce the pipe of a pair of bellows into the nostril, closing the other nostril and mouth, and gently pressing down the top of the windpipe backwards and forwards towards the chest. Work the bellows so as to fill the lungs. When the chest is raised by the inflation, let the mouth and nostrils be free, and gently compress the chest, so as to expel the air. Repeat these processes till life appears. 6. When bellows are not at hand, endeavour to restore breathing by alternately compressing the chest and remitting the pressure. This simple process has proved highly serviceable; and as any person may employ it safely and effectually, it should not be delayed a moment. 7. Electricity or galvanism, early used by a medical assistant. Suffocation by noxious vapours. Cold water to be repeatedly thrown on the face, &c., drying the body at intervals. If the body feel cold, employ gradual warmth. Intense cold. Rub the body vnth snow, ice, or cold water. Restore warmth by degrees, and after some time, if necessary, employ the means for restoring the drowned. Suspension by hanging. A few ounces of blood may be taken from the jugular vein, or by cupping-glasses applied to the head or neck, or by leeches applied to the temples. It is peculiarly necessary to have medical aid, as the treatment must vary according to cu-cum- stances. Intoxication. 1. Lay the body on a bed, with the head a little raised ; remove the neckcloth and procure medical aid. Warm fluids may be conveyed to the stomach by means of a flexible tube and a gum-elastic bottle. On signs of returning life, a tea-spoonful of warm water may be given, and, if swallowed, some warm wine or diluted spirits. Then let the person be conveyed to a warm bed, and suffered to sleep, if so inclined, being carefully watched, so as to guard against any sinking of the powers of life during sleep. 2. The restorative process to be used for four or six hours. It is a wrong opinion that persons are irrecoverable because life does not speedily re-appear. 3. Electricity and bleeding never to be em- ployed, unless by the direction of a medical assistant. If the restorative process be promptly employed, an immense proportion of lives will be saved. What is done, let it be done without any delay. ANISE BISCUITS. Wash 4 drachms of anise seeds, and dry in the oven ; work up the yolks of 5 eggs and ^ lb. of powdered sugar for about ten minutes ; whip the whites to a strong froth, and mix them lightly with the yolks ; add ^ lb. of dry-sifted flour and the anise ; pour this paste into a paper case 11 inches long by 7 wide. Bake it in a slow oven for about forty or fifty minutes; when, if firm, take it out. As soon as it is cold remove the paper, and cut the