GEN GEL r 550 1 pmt into a small saucepan, v?itli the yellow rind of three lemons pared thin, and half a nutmeg beaten. For the lemon rind you may suh- Btitute a handful of bitter peach kernels broken up, or else a vanilla bean. Having boiled the pint of milk long and slowly till it tastes strongly of the flavouring articles (keeping it closely covered), strain it, and mix it in a larger saucepan with the other three pints of milk; add 1^ oz. of gelatine that has first been soaked in cold water, and | lb. of fine loaf sugar; set it over the fii-e, and continue to boil, stirring it five minutes after it has come to a boil: then strain it, and transfer it to blanc-manger moulds, first wetting the inside of each mould with cold water; place the moulds on ice, or in a very cold situation, till the blanc-manger is thoroughly congealed, and then turn it out on dishes. GELATINE CUSTARD. Soak i oz. of gelatine for three or four hours in a pan of cold water; have ready a quart of milk, and boil in half a pint of it a bunch of peach leaves, or a handful of bitter almonds broken up, also a stick of cinnamon broken in pieces. When it is highly flavoured strain this milk into a pan that con- tains the rest; beat four eggs very lightly, and mix them gradually with the milk, adding by degrees the gelatine well drained, and four heaped table-spoonsful of sugar; set it over.a slow fire, and boil it, stirring it frequently. As soon as the gelatine is entirely dissolved and thoroughly mixed the custard will be done. Transfer it to a deep dish or to cups, and set it on ice in a cold place till wanted. GELATINE WAFERS are made by mixing 1 lb. of gelatine with 1 oz. of loaf sugar, making them into a paste with boiling water, and colouring it with a little cochineal or currant juice. Run it out of the desired thinness upon a sheet of glass or marble, and when cold cut ii into discs with a punch. GENEVA. See Gin. GENEVA CAKES. Mix into i lb. of flour sifted sugar and butter, of each 4 ozs., a little lemon zest and juice, the white of two eggs, and as much warm milk as will make it into a paste; roll it thin, cut it into large cakes, wash them over with yolk, and sift sugar over them. GENOISES. Put into an earthen pan 6 ozs. of powder sugar, six whole eggs, ^ lb. of flour, the same of sweet almonds pounded, a little orange- flower water, a small quantity of salt, and about .1 oz. of butter. Mix these ingredients together well, butter a baking plate, and spread the pre- paration over it to the thickness of half-a-crown piece ; put it into a brisk oven until of a proper colour, and cut your genoises into such forms E3 you may fancy; set them m a stove to .dry, and then serve them. When you have proceeded thus far you may, if you think proper, ornament them, which is done in the following manner :—Do them all over with a glace roijale of different colours according to your taste, and place them in a stove a minute or two to dry the glace. When cold garnish them with apple or currant jelly. GENOISES, PASTE FOR. Take lib. of flour, f lb. of sugar, and ^ lb. of butter; rub the rind of two or three lemons upon a part of the sugar, crush it with a rolling-pin, and then roll it to a very fine powder. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put into it a little salt, four yolks, and four whole eggs, with the butter and sugar; work them together well, and having made your paste, roll it out, and cut it into bands, which roll the size of jomv little finger; cut them of equal lengths, and form them into S's or horseshoes; slit the sides and ends, lay them on buttered tins, dorez, and bake them in an oven rather hotter than for baking biscuits. GENOISES, SMALL. Take some almond paste, and having worked it up well, add to it a little gum dragon and starch, both in powder; sprinkle a sheet of paper with powder sugai-, lay the almond paste over it, and sprinkle that also with sifted sugar instead of flour. Take a small round paste cutter, and cut as many pieces from the paste as you may require ; then cut an equal number of strips, each long enough to surround the tartlet, and about half an inch wide ; fix these bands to the tartlets with the white of egg ; put a layer of almond paste on a tab!3 dish, add a rim to it, leaving the edge either plain or notched as you please; place on this layer as many genoises as it will contain, and set them in an oven to dry. When wanted for table fill them according to your taste with three or four sorts of preserves. GENTIAN. The part sold by druggists is the root of Gentiana httea, a plant native of the alpine districts of Europe. Gentian pos- sesses the general virtues of . bitters in an eminent degree, and it is totally devoid of astringency. On dead animal matter it acts as an antiseptic Taken into the stomach it proves a powerful tonic, and in large doses it evacuates the intestines. It is useful in weakness of the stomach and in general debility. Externally its powder is applied to malignant ulcers. Narcotic eff'ects have sometimes been ascribed to it, but these are owing to the roots of narcotic plants gathered along with it. These narcotic roots are probably those of a species of monk's- hood [Aconitum thora); but these are distinguish- able from the gentian by being white when cut, whereas the gentian roots exhibit a yellow colour when cut. The bitter principle has been ex- tracted from gentian, and may be had in goldon- coloured crystals. Two grains of these are a