Dig C: 421 ]; The inflammatory affection of the joint is to be opposed by topical bleeding, purging, and the use of evaporating lotions. The joint must be kept quiet a few days, and then gently moved to prevent stiffness. Dislocation of the thigh. The head of the tbigh-bone may be dislocated upwards (on the dorsum of the ilium), upwards and forwards (on the body of the os pubis), downwards and forwards (on the foramen ovale), and backwards (on the ischiatic notch). The dislocation upward and backward, and that downward and forward are the most frequent. . When the thigh-bone is dislocated forwai'd and downward the knee and foot are turned out, and the leg is longer than the other; but when it is displaced backward it is usually pushed upwards at the same time, by which means the limb is shortened and the foot is turned inwards. When the thigh-bone is displaced forward and downward the patient, in order to have it reduced, must be laid upon his back, and made fast by bandages, or held by assistants, while by others a gradual and unremitting extension is made by means of slings, or a pulley fixed about the bottom of the thigh a little above the knee, a sheet folded longitudinally being first placed under the perinaeum, or fork, and one end carried behind the patient, the other before hira : they are to be fastened to one of the legs or posts of the bed, or other more secure part. While the extension is making the operator must push the head of the bone outward, or as the circum- stances of the case may require, till it gets into the socket. If the dislocation be outward the patient must be laid upon his face, and during the extension the head of the bone must be pushed inward. Dislocations of the knees, ankles, and toes are reduced much in the same manner as those of the upper extremities, viz., by making an extension in opposite directions, while the operator replaces the bones. In many cases, however, the extension alone is sufficient, and the bone will slip into its place merely by pulling the limb with sufficient force. It is not hereby meant that force alone is sufficient for the reduction of dislocation. Skill and address will often succeed better than force. When the force of the muscles in very robust persons resists every effort to reduce a dis- located limb a grain or two of emetic tartar dissolved in water may be administered, and, taking advantage of the general languor and debility that precede the act of vomiting, the limb may be reduced with facility, to which may be added bleeding and the warm bath. DISTILLING, or Distillation, is the art of separating or drawing off the spirituous, watery, oily, or saline particles of - a mashed body from the grosser and more earthy parts by the aid of fire, and then collecting and condensing them by the application of cold. With respect to the practical part of distilling^ or refining we shall first observe, that the heat should in all cases be as gentle and uniform as possible. Accidents may be effectually prevented by employing a worm of a proper width, and by rectifying spirits in a water bath, which, if sufficiently large, w ill perform the operation with all the despatch requisite for the most e.xtensive business. The vessel in which the rectification i& effected ought to be immersed in another filled with water up to the neck, and loaded with lead at the bottom, in order to keep it firm and steady. The process will thus be managed as' expeditiously as if the vessel were placed over an open fire, and without the apprehension of being disappointed; nor will it be necessary at any time to raise the water in the bath to a- boiling heat. In the distillation of compound spirits, such- as clove, lemon, citron water, and the like, the' process in no respect varies from that adopted' in distilling brandy, &c. Much, however, de-* pends on the practical attention paid to the following general rules :— 1. The distiller of such liquors must be care-' ful always to employ a pure rectified spiiit, or one freed from its own essential oil; for, as compound v.ater consists of a spirit impregnated with the essential oil of the ingredients, it is requisite that this spirit should have deposited its own oily particles. 2. Let the time of previous digestion be pro- portioned to the tenacity of the ingredients, or the weight of their oil. 3. Let the- strength of the fire also be ade- quate to the weight of the oil intended to be raised with the spirit. 4. Let only a due proportion of the finest p.articles of the essential oil be united with the spirit, as the grosser and less fragrant parts of such oil impart to it an unpleasant taste. This object may in a great measure be effected hy- leaving out the faints, and instead of them viaking up to proof with soft water. '-■ The vessel most commonly employed for the distillation of waters and spirits is the common copper still, which consists of a body for con- taining the materials, and a head into which the vapour ascends. From the middle of the head a tube rises a short way, and is then reflected downwards, through which the steam passes to be condensed. Another kind of head, rising to a great height before it is reflected, is sometimes used for separating fluids which differ little in vola-i tility, as it was supposed that the less volatile' vapours would be condensed, and fall back into