[ 573 ] GRA GEA •\sings of a duck, so as to bring away all the breast; flatten them gently, then take off the skin, and lard the meat. Take out the bones from the leg, and fill it with forcemeat; put the hones of the duck and any trimmings of other poultry into a stewpan, with two or three onions, sweet herbs, mace, bay leaves, and slices of carrot; pour thereon a pint of gravy, and then put in some fat bacon over the bones, with the wings and legs. Set the pan on a slow fire, and when done put turnips in the dish with the duck. GRANADINS, VEAL. Split the noix and flatten it, cut each in two or three pieces in the shape of long lozenges, and cut one piece round ; lard them, put them in a stewpan that will hold them, with the parings of the veal and two carrots, and half an onion under each granadin (they must not touch one another); add parsley, scallions, and a clove and a half of garlic. Make the whole boil over a brisk fu'e ; cover with buttered paper; set them to simmer, and put some very hot coals over to make them take a very fine colour. Cook from forty to fifty minutes. Reduce, glaze, and dish them over any sauce or puree, with the round in the middle so as to form a rose. GRANNY STRONG'S CAKE. Take 4 lbs. of flour, 2 lbs. of butter, 2 lbs. of sugar, twenty- seven eggs, 3 lbs. of currants, a pint of wine, and a gill of brandy. Spice as you please. GRAPE, COMPOTE OF. Boil ^Ib. of sugar with half a glass of water till it is reduced to a strong syrup, skim, and then put into it 1 lb. of grapes picked from the stalks, aiad the seeds taken out; give them a boil two or three times, and then place them in a dessert dish. If there is any scum on thom carefully wipe it off with white paper. GRAPE JELLY. Take out the stones, and mash the grapes, which must be ripe, with your hands ; then squeeze them through a cloth to extract all the juice from them, boil, and finish the same as Currant Jelly. Use i lb. of sugar to each pound of fruit. GRAPE, RIPE, WINE (1). Grape wine, of course, stands first in regard to quality and character of all domestic wines, and if a com- plete fermentation has been regularly conducted from a correct standard of specific gravity, a wine not inferior to foreign will be obtained, especially when the grape is not spared, and the season is pi'opitious. For making this wine in a plentiful year 15 lbs. of grapes to each gallon of water are used, but 20 lbs. would be preferable. The grapes, after being picked from the stalks, are slightly broken with the hand. When carefully pressed the water which we mean to use is well mixed in with the fruit so bruised, a sample is taken to be examined by the saccharoraeter, the gravity noted, and the tub covered. The next morning they are again well agitated and mixed, and a second sample taken, weighed, and noted, when an increase of gravity will be shown. These operations are performed morning and evening until it is found that the gravity is less than at the last examination. This decrease assures us that the extraction has been completed, and nothing now remains but to draw off the liquor 'from the husks, which is accordingly done, a3 they can no longer communicate anything desirable or advantageous to the wine. The fruit being pressed and the liquor drawn off, the husks are then washed in as much water as is found necessary to deprive them of any good which may yet remain in them. This liquor is then strained from them, and added to the former. The whole quantity is now measured, a portion of which is weighed by the sac- charometer in order to direct the operator in proportioning the sugar. In consequence of the coldness of this climate, even grapes, ripe grapes, are deficient in sugar, and necessarily require a portion of this article itself to supply the want. The higher the gravity of the juice and water is before putting in the sugar, the less sugar will it require for a complete fer- mentation. After the gravity of the juice and water is found, the proportion of sugar necessary to bring the must up to the standard gravity of 120° will easily be ascertained. This fruit in a dry, warm year, when perfectly ripe, and the vine grown in a favourable situation, will produce, in the pure juice, a gravity of 95°. By adding the same portion of water as pure juice the gravity of 75° will be reduced to 38°. By using two-thirds of pure juice and one-third of water the original gravity of 75° will be reduced to 50° instead of 38°, leaving then a deficiency of 70°, which must be made up by sugar. As 1 lb. of sugar dissolved in a gallon of water is equal to 36°, therefore, to supply the deficiency of 70°, 2 lbs. of sugar to each gallon of juice and water will be required, and this will raise the gravity from 50° to 122°. When this wine is intended to be a dry wine it is reduced at its lowest gravity to 15° or 20°; when intended to be a sweet wine, to 30° or 35°. Care should be taken to examine and note the gravity at least once a week until the cask is bunged. Racking is necessary in this wine, as well as in all others ; but it should not be performed until fermentation has in a great measure subsided, unless it should be too violent, when the racking is necessary to give an effectual check. The cask must be slightly sulphured, and the deficiency from the loss of lees made up from the fine of the small cask. If the wine has been reduced to 15° 1 lb. of sugar candy is