CUL [ 383 ] cue possible; put them into a stewpan with a little salt to take out all the water; then strain them through^a cloth, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter; toss them up lightly, but not to colour them ; then add a handful of sorrel chopped finely, and a pinch of chervil. Moisten it with some good stock ; let it boil for a quarter of an hour. When ready for table thicken it with the yolks of three eggs and a little cream, and pour it over your breads which should be cut in pieces similar to the cucumbers. CUCUMBERS A LA POULETTE. Pare and slice the cucumbei's, and, having soaked the slices for half an hour in vinegar and salt, dry them in a napkin, and put them into a pan with 2 ozs. of butter; fry them over a brisk fire, sprinkle flour over, pour a little broth on them^ and let them stand till reduced without breaking; then add a small quantity of chopped parsley, a little salt, the same of sugar, and three eggs; stew all together a little while, and serve hot. Pepper may be added according to taste. CUCUMBERS, RAGOUT OF. Let some cucumbers soak for two hours in half a tea- spoonful of vinegar and a little salt; turn them often, by which means the water, which is so cold to the stomach, will be drawn out. After they have been thus soaked squeeze and put tliem into a stewpan, with some good stocky a bunch of herbs, and a bit of butter; stew them, and when done add a little cullis, clear off the fat from the ragoiit, and serve; or when you have squeezed the cucumbers put them into a stewpan with some butter, and, having turned them a few times over the fire, shake in a little flour and moisten with stock. When it is suffi- ciently done, and the sauce consumed, add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with some milk, and serve them for an entremet either under eggs or without eggs. If you wish to make a soup of them boil up some cucumbers once in water, and then dress them with stock and gravy to give them a nice colour. When done garnish the edge of your soup dish with them, and take care of the water they were boiled in to add to the soup. CUCUMBERS, STEWED. Slice some cucumbers thickly, or cut them into halves and divide them into two lengths ; strew over them some salt, pepper, and sliced onions; add a little broth or a bit of butter; simmer very slowly; and before you serve them, if no butter was ill before, put some, and a little flour unless it wants richness. CULLIS. Put some roux into a saucepan, and when it is warm add some stock and a bunch of parsley to it, stirring it with a wooden spoon ; let it boil for about an hour, taking care to skim it; strain it through a sieve, take off all the fat and the scum which form at the top, and then set it by for use. CULLIS FOR BUTCHERS' MEAT. You must take your meat according to the number of guests : if ten or twelve a leg of veal and a ham will be necessary, with all the fat, skin, and outside cut off. Cut the leg of veal in pieces of about three or four inches thick each way, place them in a stewpan, and then the slices of ham, two carrots, and an onion cut in two; cover it closely, and let it stew softly at first, and as it begins to brown take off the cover and turn it, to colour on all sides the same, but take care not to burn the meat. When it has a pretty brown colour moisten your cullis with broth made of beef or other meat; season the cullis with a little sweet basil, some cloves, and a little garlic; pare a lemon, cut it in slices, and put it into the cullis with some mushrooms ; put into a stew- pan a good lump of butter, and set it over a slow fire; add to it two or three handsful of flour, stir it with a wooden ladle, and let it take colour ; if the cullis be pretty brown you must put in some flour. The flour being brown with the butter, pour it gently into the cullis, keeping it stirring with a wooden ladle ; then let the cullis stew softly, and skim ofl' all the fat; put in two glasses of champagne or other white wine, but take care to keep the cullis thin, so that you may take the fat off well and clarify it. To clarify it you must put it into a stove that draws well, cover it closely, and let it boil without uncovering until it boils over; then uncover it, and take off the fat that is round the stewpan; wipe the cover also, and cover it again. When the cullis is done take out the meat, and strain the cullis through a silk strainer. This cullis is for all sorts of ragouts, fowls, pies, and tureens. CULLIS FOR FAMILY USE. Roll a piece of butter in flour, and stir it in a stewpan till the flour is of a fine yellow colour ; then put in some thin broth, a little gravy, a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, a little nutmeg or mace, a few mushrooms, pepper, and salt. Let it stew an hour over a slow fire ; then skim all the fat off clean, and strain it through a sieve. CULLIS OF FISH. Broil a jack or pike till it is properly done ; then take off the skin, and separate the flesh from the bones. Boil six eggs hard, and take out the yolks. Blanch a few almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar, and then add the yolks of eggs. Mix these well with the butter; then put in the fish, and pound all together Take half a dozen onions, and cut them in slices, two parsnips, and three carrots; set on a stewpan, put into it a piece of butter to brown, and boil the roots; turn them.'