•DOG DQM animals the greatest relief to them in summer is couch grass, or dog s grass. Those who keep a complete kennel of dogs ghould purposely cultivate this plant in a place into which they may be turned every morning. Here they ■will eagerly eat it to relieve the uncommon heat of their blood. These animals are liable to various diseases, some of which, and their remedies, will be found in the following notices Alter.\tive Balls. Flour of sulphur, 12ozs.; powdered nitre, 2 ozs.; Elhiops mineral, 1 oz.; treacle sufficient to make a mass. Give a piece the size of a nut to a walnut, according to the size of the dog. Bites and Stings. If dogs ai"e bitten by any venomous reptiles, such as addei's, &c., the blood should be squeezed out, and the part washed with spirit of hartshorn. A plaster composed of calamine pounded in a mortar, and mixed ■with turpentine and yellow wax till it acquires the consistence of a salve, should then be applied to the wound. Canker of the Eaes. The best application for the canker in dogs' ears is an ointment made of burnt alum in fine powder, 1 drachm ; white vitriol in fine powder, 1 drachm; sperma- ceti ointment, 4 ozs. Rub them together for use. Coughs and Colds. Dogs are very subject to a cough attended with extraordinary paroxysms of choking, which is often the consequence of a cold. In this case it will be necessary to bleed the animal affected in small quantities; but if the disorder proceed from what is called the dis- temper in dogs, and they appear to be very low in spirits, blood-letting must not be attempted. Meat broth or milk broth warmed should then be the principal part of their diet, and the following medicine administered :—Take flour of sulphur, cold-drawn linseed oil, and saltpetre, of each 1 oz. ; let them be well mixed together, •and divided into four doses, one of which is to be taken every other day. Meanwhile the creature affected should be furnished with plenty of clean straw to lie upon, and likewise swallow at least one spoonful of honey every day. Cough Balls. Dover's powder, 1 drachm ; nitre, 1 drachm; sulphur, 3 drachms; treacle sufficient to make gix or eight balls. Distemper. Fof the distemper in dogs give the following emetic powder:—Tartar emetic, 20 grains ; calomel, §0 grains ; opium, .5 grains. Mix them together, and give in a piece of butter frpm 2 to .6 grains, according to size. Eyes, Weak. The following wash may be applied for weak eyes in dogs:—White vitriol, .8 grains ; soft water, ^ pint. Mix them together, and apply it with a piece of clean linen rag jpeveral times a day. Give a purging bg,ll. Inflammation of the Bowels. Bleed, after- wards put them into a warm bath, and give the following aperient mixture :—Castor oil, 2 ozs.; syrup of buckthorn, 1 oz. Mix for a dose. Madness. For this no cure is known. Let the animal be destroyed at once. Mange Ointment. Flour of sulphur, 1 lb.; soft soap, 4 ozs,; oil of tar, 1 oz.; train oil, i pint. Mix them together for use. Eub this in carefully with the hand upon the aflected places. Purging Balls. Barbadoes aloes, 2 ozs.; powdered ginger, 2 drachms; calomel, 2 draehms; treacle sufficient to make a mass. The dose 10 grains to 1 drachm, according to the size of the dog. The Scab, or Itch, though a rare disease in dogs, is sometimes very obstinate. It may, however, be easily cured by an ointment made of hog's lard and sulphur, with which a part of the back of the animal should be rubbed every day, and the application gradually extended till the whole back, from head to tail, and at length all the affected parts, have been anointed. Thus the requisite portion of sulphur, which is a specific in those cases, will be introduced into the system both by absorption and the constant licking of the diseased creature. Tonic Balls. Powdered gentian, 2 ozs.; powdered cinchona bark, I oz.; powdered camo- mile flowers, 1 oz.; powdered ginger, a dz. ; treacle sufficient to make a mass. Give from ^ drachm to 1^ drachm for a dose. Worm Balls. Calomel, 1 to 4 grains; pow- dered jalap, 5 to 20 grains ; butter sufficient to make a ball. To be given fasting. Worms. Drench for tvonns in dogs. Spirit of turpentine, 1 to 4 drachms; castor oil, 2 to 8 drachms. Mix for a dose according to size. DOMESTIC SEKVANTS. We shall treat of their duties under the I'espective names of their places, and shall here confine our notes to some plain particulars of the law relating to masters and their domestic servants. The contract for hii-ing a domestic servant is a hiring for a year unless otherwise expressed, and custom has engrafted op tliis contract aeon dilioii that either party may put an end to the service by a month's warning. In hiring a do- mestic servant, therefore, if the mouth's warn- ing is to be dispensed with, or any other to be adopted, it should be so expressed irv uiiliiig, as there might be a difficulty in proving the pre- cise terms of the hiring, and then the general custom would preyail. A book should be kept to enter the terms of hiring every servant, and which he or she should be required to sign, and also to write a receipt for wages eveiy time they are paid : if the amount re(juires a.stamp that precaution should