EEL EEL [ 455 ] minutes in a stewpan -with a piece of butter; pour the whole into a deep dish, and add salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, fine herbs, mush- rooms, a shallot, chives (the whole chopped finely), and a spoonful of oil; when it has marinated two or three hours spread it with bread crumbs, and broil the fish. Serve with sauce piquante or anchovy sauce. EEL PIE. Skin and clean the eels; cut thera in pieces about two inches in length; sprinkle them with chopped parsley and shallots, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and lemon juice for five minutes ; then put a little light force- meat at the bottom of a deep dish ; put the eels over it; cover with puff paste ; bake it, and put into it either bechamel or cullis. EEL A LA POULETTE. Having skinned and cut the eel in pieces, boil for five minutes in water, with two spoonsful of vinegar, but you must not put in your fish till the water boils ; then let it drain. Melt a piece of butter rolled in a spoonful of flour without letting it brown; pour in a glass of boiling water and as much white wine ; add salt, pepper, a bunch of mixed herbs, some mushrooms, and a dash of vinegar ; put in the eel to stew half an hour, thicken the same with the yolks of eggs, and serve. This ragout is suitable also for filling a vol au- vent. EELPOUT. Like tench this requires to be cleansed of its muddy taste. It is eaten fried, stewed, or a la poulelte; it does not require much cooking. EEL, EOASTED. Cut a large eel into pieces, having skinned and trimmed it, and marinate it about two hours with oil and lemon juice, pepper and salt, two cloves, two or three whole shallots, thyme, and laurel; then tie each bit to a skewer, and wrap it up in paper well buttered ; squeeze the herbs of the marinade, and baste it with the liquor, adding to it a little melted butter; serve with whatever sauce you please. EEL, SALTED : To Dfess. Soak an eel in milk and water, and put it on the fire in fresh water ; let it only come near the simmer, other- wise it will be spoiled; skim well, take it off the fire, cover it up. with a cloth for five minutes in the water, and drain. Serve as a salad or any other way. EEL SAUCE. Cut the eel into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, two onions, and various roots; soak till it catches a little, then add a glass of white wine and good broth, a little cullis, three or four tarragon leaves, ciboule, a clove of garlic, a little spice, and a bay leaf; simmer for an hour, skim it very well, and sift it in a sieve for use. EEL AU SOLEIL. Skin, gut, and cut an eel into pieces ; melt some butter in a stewpan, and put in the eel, with half a glass of white wine and seasoning. When done add two spoonsful of marinade sauce, and let it cool; then cover the eel with bread crumbs, and fry just before serving. The marinade is made of carrots, turnips, onions in slices, two spoonsful of flour, pepper, salt, two cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, vinegar, and two glasses of bouillon. EEL SOUP. To every pound of eels put a quart of water, a crust of bread, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, an onion, ftnd a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover them closely, and let them boil till half the liquor is wasted and the fish is quite broken ; then strain it off, toast some bread, cut it into dice, lay them in a dish, and pour the soup upon them. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-spoonful of flour rubbed smoothly in it, greatly improves it. EEL, SPITCHCOCKED. Let your eel be large, sj^lit it down the back, and joint the bone, but leave on the skin; cut it into three or four pieces, broil them on a gentle fire, and baste them with butter, vinegar, and salt. When they are broiled serve them with butter and juice of lemon. EEL A LA TARTARE. Choose a fine river eel with a white belly, for those bred in ponds taste muddy ; skin it from the head to the tail, gut it, and clip it with scissoi's ; cut off the head and end of the tail, and give it a round form by thrusting the tail into the belly ; line a saucepan with onions, carrots, a clove of garlic, thyme, a bay leaf, a sprig of parsley, two cloves, some pepper, and salt; put iu the eel, add half bouillon and half white wine, cover it with buttered paper, and stew it over a gentle fire three quarters of an hour; then take out the fish with care, and place it on a dish ; make a white roux, and moisten it with the liquor of the eel. When this sauce is I'educed thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, strain it over the fish and round it, and leave it thus to cool; then cover the eel with bread crumbs, next the beaten egg, and the second time with bread crumbs ; place it in a buttered dish, pour over some melted butter, set it in a Dutch oven or on a gridiron to give it a fine colour, and serve it with Tartar sauce, or the eel may be served cut up into slices. EELS : To Choose. These are known to be new or stale by the colour of their gills, their easiness or hardness to open, the hanging or keeping up their fins, the standing out or sinking of their eyes, &c., and by smelling their gills. EELS : To Preserve. According to the number of j'our eels boil a pint of wine or more, with the proportion of \ lb. of sugar and \ lb. of salt for a bottle of wine; let it cool, and