BUX BUT [ 191 J minutely examined their large and well-arranged establishment at Birmingham, where we received every courtesy and attention. In the same establishment we also observed the process of manufacturing Florentine buttons. Two circular bits of iron, a bit of pasteboard, a bit of thick canvass, and a bit of lasting or silk, are cut out by stamping each circular disc, and the mode of fixing these bits together is somewhat curious. There is no glue, riveting, screwing, plaiting, or other mode of fastening; all being fixed and adjusted by stamping or pressure. Within the outer cloth covering is an iron casing called the shell; within this is a disc of paper, then one of cloth, and at the back of all a disc of iron, having a hole in the centre, through which some of the canvass is forced, as a means for sewing the button on the garment. All these are placed, in their proper order, in a die, and a descending punch, worked by a press, first fixes the cover to the shell, and then these two to the other three bits, curling up the edges of the two discs of iron in such a way as to enable them to clasp all the five bits firmly, and to hide all imperfections on the edge. The internal mechanism of the presses, some of them being invented by Mr. Elliott himself, is exceedingly ingenious and effective. There are a great variety of covered buttons; but the main features in the manufacture are the punching out of separate little discs, and the fixing of these by pressure. We believe we are indebted to the same firm for the white linen buttons, one of the recent novelties of in- dustrial art. They consist of a tin or white metal ring, over which a disc of linen is stretched, and the mode of fixing them together by the press is singular and ingenious. All these operations are performed with incredible rapidity by females; and although to put together a single button fourteen pair of hands and a number of machines are employed, a set of fourteen buttons can be sold for Id. or Hd. One of the most recently-invented methods of making covered buttons has been patented by Messrs. Chatwin and Sons, of Birmingham. The ingenuity is not the only recommendation of this new mode; it is also more economical in the use of material than the one it is fast super- seding. The covering for the front of the button is kept down by turning over the circumference of the shell upon which it is placed, then the latter is forced through a machine which fixes the covering upon its surface, instead of placing the covering between the back and front parts, according to the ordinary method. There is a saving of about one half the silk in this in- vention. These manufacturers have also intro- duced another improvement which is equally deserving of notice. A braiding, or edged border, is made round the button, which not only adds to its appearance, but protects the surface from so readily wearing out. A great improvement has also been effected in the de- signs for woven fabrics used in the manufacture of buttons. Ten or twelve years ago the woven figure of a flower for the centre of a button would have comprised merely the outline of two or three leaves and a small dot in the centre ; but the weavers of Spitalfields have been stimu- lated to such an extent, that in the woven designs for small buttons even the minutest point, or mark of the pencil, is now preserved, whether it be in satin or terry velvet. In this branch of manufactures ingenuity keeps pace with the growing wants of the age, as may be observed in the covering of nails for the general ornamentation of furniture, the old brass-headed nail being now but little used. These covered buttons are a great improvement, as they corre- spond with the material to which they are affixed, and prove that a more refined and subdued taste is gradually introducing itself. The manufacture of the pearl button is simple yet interesting. The button is placed in a lathe, and after passing through four or five operations is considered finished. The material of which it is made is brought from the Eastern Archi- pelago, principally from the coast of China. It resembles a large oyster-shell in almost every respect, and is found in considerable quantities in the eastern seas, being formerly brought home as ballast. But since the shell has been applied to the manufacture of buttons, a ton of them is worth about £19. The waste is considerable in the processes of the manu- facture of this kind of button. The horn- button is a distinct branch of manufacture. The hoofs of oxen, principally derived from South America, are boiled and cut into certain forms, which are punched with a screw-press into little circular pieces. These pieces are then dyed with logwood, which gives them a blue-black appearance, after which they aro sub- jected to a heavy pressure with a die, which stamps upon their surface a pattern. The dies in all the button-manufacturing establishments form a large item in the plant, their weight of metal, irrespective of the expense of cutting them, amounting in some instances to several tons. BUXTON WATER. Buxton, so celebrated for its medicinal springs, is a considerable vil- lage, situated in the north-western side of the county of Derby, on the borders of Cheshire, from which it is separated by a chain of lofty hills, intersected by deep ravines. The summits of these hills are bare, and their sides but thinly covered with verdure, giving to the face of the surrounding country a bleak and barren charac-