GIN [ t any we have from Jamaica. Ginger is generally considered as an aromatic, less pungent and heating to the system than might be expected from its effects upon the organs of taste. It is used as an antispasmodic and carminative. The cases in which it is more immediately serviceable are flatulent colics, debility and laxity of the stomach and intestines, and in torpid and phlegmatic constitutions to excite brisker vas- cular action. It is seldom given but in com- bination with other medicines. In the pharma- copoeias it is directed in the form of a syrup and a condiment, and in many compositions it is ordered as a subsidiary ingredient. From six- teen grains to a scruple of the powder mixed in milk is the usual dose. Whilst the root-stocks are young, fresh, and tender it is preserved, that from China being the best. Ginger ""tea has been much commended by Sir Joseph Banks, and others who suffered from gout. See Tea. GINGER APPLE-PASU. Pulp some apple, and add a sufficient quantity of sugar or honey; dry it over a gentle heat, stirring it with a wooden, ebony, or ivory spatula till it begins to stick ; sift sugar upon a tray kept on purpose, and roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, more or less; cut it into any form, and dry it in a slow oven. They are to be kept in boxes, and when wanted may be used for garnishing dessert dishes in paper, or frosted with sugar or powder of flowers in different colours. GINGER BEER (1). Put in a perfectly clean tub or bucket 4 lbs. of brown sugar, 1-| oz. of race ginger cracked, 1 oz. of cream of tartar, and four gallons of boiling water. When cool add half a pint of home-made yeast, cover it with a cloth, and let it stand precisely twenty-four hours; then skim it, strain it through a cloth, and bottle and cork it tightly. Do not let the beer go into the neck of the bottles, or they will burst. This quantitj' will fill sixty bottles. It will be fit for use in three or four days. If it is needed in two days put in one pint of yeast. This is a particularly acceptable beverage in warm weather. GINGER BEER (2). Get a gallon of soft water (rain water, if clear, is the best), and put into it about 2 lbs. of the best refined lump sugar, two fresh lemons sliced, 2 ozs. of powdered ginger, and a dessert-spoonful of cream of tartar. Simmer them over the fire for half an hour, but without boiling; then add a table-spoonful of yeast, ferment it in the usual way, and bottle it for use. It is an excellent stomachic, and good against flatulence. GINGER CAKES. Put 4 lbs of flour upon a dresser; then take a copper saucepan, break into it six eggs, and mix them well with a spoon ; add one pint of cream to them, and beat 5 ] GIN them well; set the saucepan over the fire, and stir till your mixture is warm. Put 2 lbs. of butter into the cream and eggs, and 1 lb. of sugar, and keep stirring it over a very slow fire just to melt all the butter; put in 4 ozs. of pounded ginger, and as soon as all the butter is melted pour it into the middle of the flour; mix it as well as you possibly can till it comes to a fine paste; then roll it out with flour under it on your dresser; cut the cakes to the size of the top of a tea-cup, a quarter of an inch in thick- ness, and before you put them into the oven (wliich should be very hot) place three papers under them. GINGER, CANDIED. Put 1 oz. of ginger finely grated, and 1 lb. of sifted sugar, into a preserving pan, with as much water as will dis- solve them, and stir them well together over a slow fire till the sugar begins to boil; then add another pound of sugar, stirring constantly till it thickens. Take it from the fire, drop it on earthen dishes, set the drops in a warm place to dry, and they will be hard and brittle, and look white. GINGER CRACKERS. Mix together in a deep pan a pint of West India molasses, i lb. of butter, J lb. of brown sugar, two large table-spoonsful of ginger, a tea spoonful of powdered cinnamon, a small tea-spoonful of pearlash or soda dissolved in a little warm water, and sufficient sifted flour to make a dough just stiff enough to roll out conveniently. Let-the whole be well incorporated into a large lump; knead it till it leaves your hands clean, and then beat it hard with a rolling-pin, which will make it crisp when baked. Divide the dough, and roll it out into sheets half an inch thick; cut it into cakes with a tin cutter about the usual size of a cracker biscuit, or with the edge of a tea-cup dipped frequently in flour to pre- vent its sticking; lay the cakes at regular dis- tances in square pans slightly buttered, set them directly in a moderately brisk oven, and bake them well, first pricking them with a fork. Ginger crackers are excellent on a sea voyage. If made exactly as above they will keep many weeks. GINGER CUP-CAKE. Mix three cups of flour, one of sugar, one of molasses, one of butter, a table-spoonful of ginger, a table-spoon- ful of saleratus, and three eggs. Bake in pans. A pound of stoned and chopped raisins is an improvement. GINGER DROPS. Put 2 ozs. of candied orange-peel and a little sugar into a mortar, and beat them to a paste ; then mix 1 oz. of powdered white ginger with 1 lb. of loaf sugar; wet the sugar with a little water, boil the whole together to a candy, and drop it on the paper in moderate-sized drops.