FOR FOR [ 516 ] enuffers. He should, according to the size of the family, be allowed a sufficient number of glass, tea, and knife cloths each week; a towel, a bowl, and a piece of soap to enable him to wash his hands very frequently. A good steady servant will keep his clothes and person clean and neat; he will be particularly careful in washing his hands, being called upon constantly to wait and hand about so many various things. In many families the footman is, very properly, not allowed to deliver any small thing, not even a card or a letter, except on a waiter; and this custom, independently of its cleanliness, begets respect, and displays a propriety of conduct which is always desirable in a servant. A good footman, when sent out, will not waste his time, but will execute his errands quickly, and return to his business. Punctuality is an important quality in the footman, who ought never to fail in time when ordered to attend either his master or his mistress. FORCEMEAT FOR BAKED SOLES. Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal a little, then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried and cut small, and some onions, a little gai'lic or a shallot, some parsley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; pound the whole finely with a few bread crumbs added to it, and bind with the J oiks of two or three eggs. FORCEMEAT BALLS FOR FISH SOUPS. Beat the flesh anu soft parts of a middling-sized lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard egg, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with two table-spoonsful of bread crumbs, one spoonful of oyster liquor, 2 ozs. of warmed butter, and two eggs beaten for a long time; make into balls, and fry them of a nice brown colour in butter. FORCEMEAT, COLLOPS OF. Mince some meat, and put it on the fire, with a slice of butter, a little parsley, and green onions shred finely; shake in a little flour, and moisten with stock; add pepper, reduce to a thick sauce that will adhere to the meat, and then leave it to cool. Make a paste with flour and water, and a little butter and salt; knead and roll it with a rolling-pin as thin as a half-crown; place your meat upon it in small parcels, a full finger's distance from each other; wet the paste all round the meat, and then cover it with paste rolled to the same thickness as that on which you placed the meat, pinching the paste with your fingers round the parcels of meat. Cut the collops sepai'atcly, and fry them of a nice brown. This dish may be made with tlio lomains of a hash. FORCEMEAT OF FISH. Take 2 ozs. of either turbot, soles, lobster, shrimps, or oj'sters, free fiom skin; put it into a mortar, with 2 ozs. of fresh butter, 1 oz. of bread crumbs, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, a little shallot, grated lemon-peel, and parsley, minced very finely ; then pound the whole well till it is thoroughly mixed and quite smooth; season it with Cayenne to your taste ; break in one whole egg, rub well together, and it will then he ready for use. Oysters parboiled and minced finely, and an anchovy, may be added. FORCEMEAT FOR FOWLS OR MEAT. Shred a little ham or gammon, some cold veal or fowl, some beef suet, a little onion, some parsley, a very small quantity of lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper or Cayenne, and some bread crumbs. Pound the whole in a mortar, and bind it with •one or two eggs beaten and strained. FORCEMEAT FOR HARE. Take 2 ozs. of beef suet chopped finely, 3 ozs. of bread crumbs grated finely, parsley, shallot, marjoram, lemon thyme, lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper and salt according to tagte, and mix together with an egg. If the liver of the hare is quite sound it may be parboiled, minced very finely, and mixed with the above ingredients. FORCEMEAT, INGREDIENTS FOR. Forcemeat should be made sufficiently consistent to cut with a knife, but not diy or heavy. No one flavour should predominate greatly. Accord- ing to what it is wanted for, a selection may be made from the following list, being careful to use the least of those articles which are the most pungent:—Cold fowl or veal, scraped ham, fat bacon, beef suet, crumbs of bread, parsley, white pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolks and whites of eggs well beaten to bind the mixture. The forcemeat may be made with any of these articles without any striking flavour; therefore any of the following different ingredients may be made use of to vary the taste :—O^'sters, anchovies, tarragon, savory, pennyroyal, knotted marjoram, thyme, basil, yolks of hard eggs. Cayenne, garlic, shallot, chives, Jamaica pepper in fine powder, or two or three cloves. To force or stuff turkeys, geese, ducks, &c., see under the heads of the dififerent ways of dressing turkeys, geese, &c. FORCEMEAT PATTIES. Make a farce the same as for Forcemeat (Raw) Pie, only chop it smaller, and let the crust be a rich puff paste; cut it to the size of the patty moulds, fill them with the farce, being first rubbed with butter; cover them with puff paste, and let them bake in a moderate oven for about three quarters of an hour. When ready to serve add a little warm cullis with the squeeze of a lemon. FORCEMEAT PIE. Take any sort of meat, either a tender piece of beef, fillet of veal, leg of mutton, game, or poultry, and chop it up with the same quantity of beef suet, parsley.