[ 444 ] DYE DYE be increased or diminished according to the depth of the shade required. The last substance employed in dyeing the fawn colour is soot, which is not only less solid than the others, but also hardens, and imparts a very disagreeable smell to the wool or stuff dyed in it. It is, therefore, seldom if ever used, unless the other ingredients cannot be easily procured. The fifth and last of the primitive colours is BLACK, which includes a great variety of shades. In order to impart a good black to woollen stuffs they should be first dyed of as deep a blue as possible, which is called the ground, and is to be performed in the manner already dii'ected. As soon as the cloth is taken out of the vat it ought to be well washed in river water, and afterwards scoured at the fulling mill. Next the dyeing process is performed as follows :— For every cwt. of cloth 10 lbs. of logwood cut into chips, and an equal quantity of Aleppo gall- nuts pulverised and inclosed in a bag, are to be put into a cauldron of a moderate size, where the whole is boiled for twelve hours in a suffi- cient quantity of water. A third part of this liquor is then to be poured into another cauldron, with 2 lbs. of verdigris, when the cloth is to be immersed for two hours, being repeatedly turned and stirred, the liquor in the meantime boiling very slowly, or rather, gently simmering. At the expiration of that time the stuff is to be taken out, and the second part (being another third) of the liquor added to the first third, to- gether with 8 lbs. of copperas. The fire be- neath the cauldron is then to be diminished, and the copperas left for half an hour to dis- solve, the liquor being gradually cooling, after which the cloth is to be immei'sed for another hour, repeatedly turned as before, then removed and cooled. The remainder of the liquor is next to be mixed with the first two-thirds, and the bag carefully expressed, when 15 lbs. or SO lbs. of sumach are to be added, together with 2 lbs. of copperas. The whole is then made to boil, and a small quantity of water being added to cool, the stuff is again immersed for two hours, at the end of which time it is to be taken out, cooled, and steeped in the dye for an hour longer, being fre- quently turned. The cloth is then to be carded to the fulling mill, and well scoured till the water rvms from it perfectly colourjess. As soon as this operation is performed a fresh liquor should be prepared with the necessary quantity of dyers' weed, which is only to be boiled once, and when cool the cloth dipped into it. This last decoction softens the texture, and renders the colour a most beautiful black. Few dyers, however, take so much pains ; for they ai'6 satisfied with dipping the cloth when blue into a decoction of nut-galls, and boiling the whole for two hours. The stuff is then washed, and, after adding some copperas and logwood to the liquor, the cloth is again immersed for two hours, at the end of which it is washed, scoured, dried, and pressed. The following are the dye-stuffs used by calico- printers for producing fast colours. The mor- dants are thickened with gum or calcined starch, and applied with the block, roller, plates, or pencil. Fast Colours. Black. The cloth is im- pregnated with acetate of iron (iron liquor), and dyed in a bath of madder and logwood. Purple. The preceding mordant of iron di- luted, with the same dyeing bath. Crimson. The mordant for purple, united with a portion of acetate of alumina, or red mordant, and the above bath. Acetate of alu- mina is made for this purpose by decomposing alum with acetate of lead, or with aqueous acetate of lime, having a speciiic gravity of 10-50, a gallon of which, equivalent to ^ lb. avoirdupois of dry acetic acid, is employed for every 2f lbs. of alum. Red. Acetate of alumina is the mordant, and madder is the dye-stuff. Pale Red of different shades. The preceding mordaiit diluted with water, and a weak madder bath. Brown or Pompadour. A mixed mordant, containing a somewhat larger proportion of the red than of the black, and the dye of madder. Orange. The red mordant, and a bath first of madder, and then of^quercitron. Yellow. A strong red mordant, and the quer- citron bath, the temperature of which should be considerably under the boiling point of water. Blue. Indigo rendered soluble and greenish j'ellow, coloured by potash and orpiment. It re- ceives its blue colour by exposure to the air, and thereby also fixes firmly on the cloth. An indigo vat is also made with that blue substance diffused in water with quicklinie and copperas. These substances are supposed to deoxidise indigo, and at the same ti^^e to render it soluble. Golden Dye. The cloth is immersed alter- nately in a solution of copperas and lime waten The protoxide of iron precipitated on the fibre soon passes, by absorption of atmospherical oxy- gen, into the golden-coloured deutoxide, Buff. The preceding substances in a more diluted state. Blue Vat, in which v'hite spots are left on a blue ground of cloth, is made by applying to these prints a paste composed of sulphate .of copper and pipe-clay, and after they are dried immersing them, stretched on frames for a definite number of minutes, in the yellowish-green y&t of