CHE CHE [ 270 ] spoonsful of rennet. When the curd is formed break it a little, put it into a wooden bowl tho shape of a brick, press it a little, and so dry it. In six months it is ready for use. To be made in September ; if sooner it will not keep. CHEESE, CHEDDAR. There have been, and there are still, many imitations of Cheddar cheese, but the only genuine cheeses which bear this cognomen are made by the following process at Cheddar, near Wells, in Somerset- shire. When we say at Cheddar we mean on the farms contiguous to this little town, whence the cheese derives its name. The rennet is also added to the milk in the same way as in Cheshire; but there is no colouring matter used, the Cheddar owing its deviation from the white to no other aid than its own richness. The evening's milk being skimmed in the morning, the cream which it yields is mixed with the morning's milkings, both raised to a temperature of from 80° to 90° of Fahrenheit, according to the season. The rennet is then put in, and the cheese tub covered and placed in a tolerably warm situation. When the coagulation is complete the curd is broken with a dish or a bowl, and as much whey taken from it as can be baled out. The whey is strained through a sieve, and the bits of curd that remain in the sieve returned to the cheese tub. The curd is now submitted to pressure in the tub, much in the same manner that Cheshire cheese is pressed at first. When it has undergone several pressings and turnings in the vat, and sundry perforations to drain it of every drop of whey, the curd is broken and fully salted, and again pressed and again broken. From 3 lbs. to 5 lbs. of fresh butter, according to the size of the cheese, are now worked into the curd, which is immediately put into a clean vat with a cheese cloth round it, having the end drawn over the upper surface and tucked in at the side of the vat. It is next taken to the great press, whei'e it is turned very often in the space of an hour and a half that it remains there, the cloth being changed each time that the cheese is turned. Being now transferred to a finer cloth, it is covered with a couple more cloths, so that there may be three or four folds round it, and again put into the press, where it remains forty eight hours. No further pressure is now applied; but the cheese is taken from the press, washed in whey, and put into cloths to dry. When it becomes quite dry it is laid on a shelf in the cheese room, and turned every day until it begins to ripen, when it is fit for the salesman. CHEESE, CHESHIRE. In the cheese- making districts of Cheshire the milk is set together very warm, when the curd will be firm. It is then cut crosswise with a knife, in lines about an inch apart, about the depth of the knife-blade, so as to allow the whey to rise between the lines. The curd is then broken uniformly small with a skimming-dish, and left with a cloth over it an hour to settle. Next cut the ' curd into pieces of about an inch square, put it into a cloth, and then into a large wooden drainer, with a cover fitting inside it. Set it before a good fire, and first put oa the cover about half a hundredweight, so as to press the curd moderately. In twenty minutes take out the curd, cut it still smaller, and press it as before, and twenty minutes after cut and press it again. Then put the curd into a tub or pan, cut it as small as birds' meat, and salt it; next put it in a cloth of thin gauze into a chessel or hoop, set it before a fire twelve or fifteen hours, and then put it into the press, taking it out from time to time, and giving dry cloths, till, by the pressing, the cloths come off quite dry. If the last cloth be of a finer texture, dipped in warm water and wrung out, it will give the cheese a finer skin or rind. Having taken the cheese out of the press, lay it on a dry shelf; at first turn and rub it daily with a dry cloth, and, as the cheese becomes firm, turning and wiping t\Yice a week will hs sufficient. The following are good propor- tions :— 6 drachms of aunotto to a cheese of SOIbs. to 22 lbs., and 8 ozs. or 9ozs. of salt. Seventy quarts of milk will make a cheese of the above weight, or about 3 quarts for each pound of cheese. CHEESE, CRAB. Cut some thin slices of any rich cheese, as Cheshire, double Gloucester, &c., and press them well with a knife until you can spread the cheese like butter; then mix up with it mustard, common and chilli vinegar, Cayenne pepper, salt, essence of anchovies, and any other fish sauce you think proper. Mix all together thoroughly to a thick pulp. CHEESE, CREAM. To every quart of new milk add a gill of cream; make the mixture moderately warm, and put to it just rennet enough to turn it. When the curd comes lay a cloth in the vat or mould, for which the bottom of a sieve may be used, but it should be of the exact size of the intended cheese. Then letting out the curd with a skimming-dish fib up the mould, turn the cloth over it, and set il to drain as the curd settles. Keep filling ii more with a gentle pressure till the whey k wholly extracted, and there is sufficient sub- stance left for the cheese; then turn it out into a dry cloth, and press it with a moderate weight, not exceeding two pounds. At night turn it into a clean cloth, and next morning slightly sprinkle it with salt, after which, if it is diy enough, lay it on a bed of fresh nettle, straw.