[ 405 ] DAN Dam by for an hour ; put them on the fire again for half an hour more, and set them by again for the same time. Do so the tliird time. While they stand olF the fire put a weight upon them to keep them under the syrup. The last time you must boil them till you perceive they are of a high colour in the part where the skin is broken ; then take them off, set them by to cool, and when they are cold drain off the syrup, and make a jelly in the following manner ;—Boil a good quantity of green apples, green goose- berries, and quince cores to a mash; then strain it through a hair sieve ; take an equal quantity of this jelly to the former syrup, and boil them over a gentle fire together till they jelly; skim it well, and while it is hot put it into glasses or pots. DAMSON PUDDING. Make a paste, and lay it in a basin; then fill it with ripe or bottled damsons, cover it with paste, boil it, and when it is ready to serve cut a piece out of the top ; mix with the fruit sifted sugar to the palate, and a small quantity of pounded cinnamon or grated nutmeg. DAMSON SAUCE. Allow i lb. of brown sugar to every pound of fruit, and to each 7 lbs. a pint of molasses and a pint of strong vinegar; let them cook slowly so as not to break the skins; take them up, and put into a jar; add a few cloves to the syrup, let it boil longer, and pour it over the damsons. DAMSON WINE. The small damsons are best, which must be gathered dry, bruised with the hand, and then put into an earthen vessel that has a hole in it for a fausset. To every 8 lbs. of damsons add one gallon of boiling water, which must be poured in scalding hot. After standing two days draw it off into a clean cask, and to every gallon put 2|- lbs. of sugar. Let the cask be quite full, and the longer it stands the better. After remaining some months bottle it off, put- ting into each a piece of loaf sugar. Or, put 2|-lbs. of sugar to every gallon of water, boil and skim it for two hours, and to each gallon add 5 lbs. of stoned damsons ; boil these till the liquor is of a fine red colour, strain it through a sieve, and ferment it in an open vessel for four days. On pouring it off from the lees clean the vessel, and put in the liquor to finish the fermentation ; close it well for six or eight months, and when fine bottle it off. Or, put 16 lbs. of Malaga raisins, with half a peck of damsons, to four gallons of water in a tub, cover it, and let it stand six days, stirring it twice every twenty-four hours; then draw off the liquor, colour it, and pour it into a cask; bung it up, and bottle it for use. DAMSONS: To Keep. Put them into stone jars or wide-mouthed bottles, set them up to the neck in cold water, and scald them. Next day, when cold, fill them up with spring water, and cover them. DAMSONS : To Pbeserve. Put them into a saucepan over the fire with as much water as will cover them. When boiled strain off the liquor, and add to every pound of fruit (wiped clean) as much double-refined sugar; put one- third of the sugar into the liquor; set it over the fire, and when it simmers put in the damsons. Let them boil; then take them off, and cover them closely for half an hour; then set them on again, and let them simmer while over the fire, after being turned ; take them out, put them into a basin, strew all the sugar that remains on them, and pour the hot liquor over them; let them stand covered till the next day, and boil them up once more; then take them out, and put them into pots; boil the liquor till it is a jelly, and when cold pour it over the damsons. DAMSONS, BOTTLED. Gather tha" damsons carefully before they are ripe, put' them into wide-necked bottles, cork them loosely, and let them stand a fortnight; then; look them over, and if any be spoiled or mouldy take them out; wipe and cork the rest closely; set the bottles in sand, with the necks downwards,; and they will keep till spring, and be as good as fresh ones. DAMSONS, CANDIED. After they have been preserved dip them in warm brandy to wash off the syrup; then sift fine sugar over them, and set them to dry in a stove or oven. Repeat this, taking them out three or four times, and sift sugar over them. Do not let them be cold before they are quite dry. DAMSONS, DRIED. iSather them when ripe, spread them on a cloth, and let them remain in a cool oven till dry ; then take them out, and keep them in a dry place. DANDELION [Leontodon Taraxacum). The leaves blanched make a salad quite equal to endive. It has long enjoyed the reputation of proving benefipial in obstructions of the liver and in visceral diseases. Bergius extols its use for these complaints, and recommends the recent root to be boiled in whey or broth. Dr. Pemberton has more recently added his testimony to its value. He observes that he has seen great advantage result from using the extract in; chronic inflammation and incipient scirrhus of the liver, and in chronic derangement of the stomach. It is given in the form of extract or in decoction, made by boiling 1 oz. of the sliced root in 1 pint of water down to half a pint, adding to the strained liquid 1 drachm of cream of tartar: the recent full-grown root only should be used. Dose, 2 fluid ozs. twice or thrice a day. The roots are roasted and used at Got- tingen by the poorer people for coffee, from