[ 559 ] GLA GIN some flour on your paste board, take the dough out of the pan, flour your hands, and knead the dough till it ceases entirely to be sticky; roll it out into a very thick square sheet, cut it into long straight slips, and twist every two slips together, rounding off the ends nicely; lay them (not too closely) in buttered square pans, and bake them well. As gingerbread burns easily take care not to have the oven too hot. Instead of forming it into twisted strips you may cut the sheet of gingerbread dough into round cakes with the edge of a tumbler, which, as you proceed, must be frequently dipped in flour, GINGERBREAD FOR TRAVELLING. Take 3 lbs. of treacle, 4 lbs. of flour, i lb. of sugar (both well sifted), 2 ozs. of pounded ginger, i oz. of allspice, J lb. of orange-peel, 2 ozs. of caraway seeds, ^ lb. of citron, i lb. of almonds, and I lb. of butter. Let the almonds be blanched and cut with the citi'on and orange- peel. It ought not to be much handled, but M-ell mixed. Bake it in small cakes or nuts in a quick oven. This bread, baked with the fruit pounded, is to be veiy well dried in a cool oven, then to be rasped, and again kneaded with as much butter and treacle as it will take. Knead it up with more fruit and spices, bake it well without burning, dip it in spirits of wine, with a few drops of the essence of caraway, cinnamon, or cloves ; dry it in the oven, and wash it over with isinglass and sugar, or white of egg; dry it again, and wrap it up in writing paper very closely; pack in a lined box, exclude the air, and it will keep years in a dry, but not warm place. This is an excellent sea store. GLACE ROYAL. Put the white of a new laid egg into a pan, and mix with it a suffi cient quantity of white powder sugar to make a glace, or icing, neither too dry nor too liquid ; beat it well, and add a little lemon juice to whiten it. By mixing with this glace carmine, saffron, indigo, spinach juice, &c., it will be either rose-coloured, yellow, blue, green, &c., according to your taste. GLASS. Looking upon a mass of flint and a mass of soda, two dull, opaque bodies, no one would foretell that their union would result in the production of bright, transparent glass ; much less could it be anticipated that the addition of red lead would render it still more translucent, and still more brilliant. Yet such is the truth. Glass cannot be made without intense heat, for the alkali retains the last portions of its carbonic acid and water with singular obstinacy, and it is only at a very high temperature that the alkali melts. When melted it at once dissolves and combines with the silica of the flint, illustrating that almost universal law of chemistry, that before two bodies can combine one must be in a fluid state. Metallic oxides have the property of rendering glass more fusible, and in this way the red oxide of lead operates beneflcially; but it also increases the density of the glass, giving to it a greater power of refracting the rays of light; and it is this power which renders it so brilliant when formed into goblets, decanters, and other vessels for table use, and which adapts it so eSiciently for optical purposes. Round glass, such as phials, drinking glasses, &c., are blown. When the different materials are sufficiently liquefied the workmen dip long iron pipes into it, and blow the metal till it lengthens like a bladder. It is then rolled on a marble slab to polish it, when it is blown a second time, in order to form it into the shape of a globe. Next it is cut off at the collet, or neck, adhering to the pipe. For this purpose the latter is rested on an iron bar close to the neck, and a drop of water poured on it, by which means it is cracked about a quarter of an inch, when it is slightly struck or cut by a pair of shears, and immediately separated. Now the workman dips the rod or pipe into the melting metal, whence he draws out as much as will connect the glass already made, to which he fixes the rod, opposite the opening caused by the breaking or cutting of the neck. In this position the glass is carried to the mouth of the furnace, in order to be heated or scalded. Thus it be- comes so soft that it may be pierced, opened, and moulded at pleasure without any apprehension of its breaking. The vessel, however, is not finished till it has again been returned to the mouth of the furnace, where, after being thoroughly heated and turned quickly round, it will open to any size by means of heat and circular motion. Should any impurities remain they are cut off with the shears, as the glass continues flexible till it becomes cool; and if the vessel thus made requires a foot or handle, or any other ornament, the operator forms them separately, and unites them by the help of hot metal drawn from the pots with the iron rod. The last operation for completing the glass is that of annealing. Window or table glass is worked nearly in the manner above described. The workman blows and manages the metal so that it extends two or three feet in a cylindrical form. It is then carried to the fire, and the operation of blowing repeated till the metal is stretched to the dimensions required, the side to which the pipe is fixed diminishing gradually till it ends in a pyramidal form ; but, in order to bring both ends nearly to the same diameter, while the glas3 continues flexible a small portion of hot metal is added to the pipe; the whole is drawn out with a pair of iron pincers, and the same end is cut off with a little cold water as before.