[ 208 ] CAK CAE of egg from tlie pitcher tlirough a strainer into a rather shalh)\v pan, beat them till so stiff that they can stand alone ; then add the powdered sugar gradually to the white of egg, and beat it in well. In the other pan beat the yolks till veiy smooth and thick; then mix them gradu- ally, a little at a time, with the white of egg and sugar. Lastly, stir in by degrees the rice- flour, adding it lightly, and stirring it slowly and gently round till the surface is covered with bubbles. Transfer it directly to a buttered tin pan; set it immediately into a brisk oven, and bake it an hour and a half or more, according to its thickness. Ice it when cool, flavouring the icing with lemon or rose. This cake will be best the day it is baked. CAKE, SPONGE (in Small Pans). Take 12 eggs with the weight of them in sugar, and the weight of 6 of them in flour; beat the yolks with the sugar, the whites alone; season with nutmeg or grated lemon-peel; put all to- gether, adding the flour at last. Stir it quickly after the flour is added, as it will make it heavy to beat it much ; grease several small pans and pour it in. Bake with a quick heat and they will be done in half an hour, or less, according to the size. They are pretty iced. CAKE, STRAWBERRY. Sift rather less than a quart of flour into a pan, and cut up among it ^ lb. of the best fresh butter, or mix in 1 pint of butter, if it is soft enough to measure in that manner. Rub with your hands the butter into the flour till the whole is crumbled fine. Beat 3 eggs very lightly, and then mix with them 3 table-spoonsful of powdered loaf sugar. Wet the flour and butter with the beaten egg and sugar, so as to form a dough. If you find it too stiff add a very little cold water. Knead the dough till it quits your hands and leaves them clean. Spread some flour on your pasteboard, and roll out the dough into a rather thick sheet. Cut it into round cakes with the edge of a tumbler, or something similar, dipping the cutter frequently into flour to prevent its sticking. Butter some large, square iron pans or baking sheets; lay the cakes in, not too close to each other ; set them in a brisk oven, and bake them light brown. Have ready a sufficient quantity of ripe straw- berries, mashed and made very sweet with powdered white sugar. Reserve some of your finest strawberries whole. When the cakes are cool, split them, place them on flat dishes, and cover the bottom piece of each with mashed straw- berry, put on thickly ; then lay on the top pieces, pressing them down. Have ready some icing, and spread it thickly over the top and down the sides of the cakes, so as to inclose both the upper and lower pieces. Before the icing has quite dried, ornament the top of every cake with the whole strawberries—a large one in the centre, and the smaller ones placed round in a close circle. They are delicious and beautiful cakes, if properly made. The strawberries, not being cooked, will retain all their natural flavour. In- stead of strawberries, you may use raspberries. The large white Antwerp raspberry is the finest, if to be eaten uncooked. CAKE, SUGAR. Take i lb. of dried flour, tlie same quantity of fresh butter, washed in rose water, and Jib. of sifted loaf sugar; then mix together the flour and tugar, rub in the butter, and add the yolk of an egg, beaten with a table- spoonful of cream; make it into a paste ; roll and cut it into small, round cakes, which bake upon a floured tin. CAKE, TEA. With 1 lb. of flour rub i lb. of butter; add the beaten yolks of 2 and the white of 1 egg, J lb. of pounded loaf sugar, and a few caraway seeds. Mix it to a paste with a little warm milk, cover it with a cloth, and let it stand before the fire for nearly an hour. Roll out the paste, and cut it into round cakes with the top of a glass, and bake them upon floured tins. CAKE, TRIFLE. See CnAKTiLLY. CAKE, TWELFTH. Take 2 lbs. of sifted flour, 2 lbs. of sifted loaf sugar, 2 lbs. of butter, 18 eggs, 4 lbs. of currants, ^ lb. of almonds blanched and chopped, ^ lb. of citron, 1 lb. of candied orange and lemon-peel cut in tliin slices, a large grated nutmeg, ^ oz. of ground allspice, ground cinnamon, mace, ginger, and corianders, J oz. of each, and 1 gill of brandy. Put the butter into a stewpan, in a warm place, work it into a smooth cream with the hand, and mix it with the sugar and spice in a pan for some time; then break in the eggs by degrees, and beat it at least twenty minutes ; stir in the brandy, and then the flour, and work it a little ; add the fruit, sweetmeats, and almonds, and mix all together lightly. Have ready a hoop cased with paper, on a baking-plate; put in the mixture, smooth it on the top with your hand dipped in milk; put the plate on another, with sawdust between, to prevent the bottom from colouring too much; bake it in a slow oven four hours or more, and, when nearly cold, ice it with icing. This mixture would make a handsome cake, full twelve or fourteen inches ovei'. CAKE, WASHINGTON. Take If lb. of sugar, the same of flour, | lb. of butter, 8 eggs, 1 pint of milk, and mix them as a pound cake. Just as it is ready to bake dissolve a tea-spoon- ful of saleratus in a little sour cream, and stir in. Season with nutmeg and rose brandy, or essence of lemon. Bake it as a pound cake. Some persons put in a tea-spoonful of lemon- juice iust before baking. CAKE, WATER. Take 3 lbs. of powdered sugar, and 4 lbs. of sifted flour; mix tJie Hour