C LA CIT [ 308 J Dutmegs; put them into 3 gallons of proof spirits, and distil it; then add 2 lbs. of double- refined sugar, and bottle it. CITRONELLE EATAFIA. For 2 quarts of the best brandy take the zests or rinds of 12 fine sound lemons, 2 drachms of bruised cin- namon, 1 oz. of coriander, and 2 lbs. of sugar dissolved in 1J pint of water. Infuse the whole for a month ; then strain and bottle it. CITRONELLE A LA VENISE. ' For 16 pints of brandy zest 12 fine lemons, which put to infuse as has been directed often, and distil in the same manner. Never forget, in distilling for 24 pints of brandy, to add 4 pints of water, and for 12 pints 2 pints of water, and 10 pints of water for the syrup, with 2 lbs. of sugai*. The whole is conducted as directed above. CIVET is a perfume obtained from the animal of the same name, and known to na- turalists as Viverra civetta. CIVET OF HARE. Cut tip a hare, and beat it up in a stewpan with a slice of butter and a bunch of herbs ; shake in some flour, and moisten with a pint of white wine and some stock, adding salt and pepper. When done, if you have any of its blood put it in; then thicken the sauce over the fire. It should be of a very dark colour. Some cooks add small pieces of bacon and young onions browned over the fire in butter to this stew, as also the blood and liver of the hare, reducing till the sauce becomes very thick. CIVET OF SLICES OF HARE. Take a roasted hare that has been served at table, and cut off all the meat in small slices; then bruise the bones, and put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter half the size of an egg, some sliced onions, a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, and 2 cloves; shake these ingredients a few times over the fire, adding a little flour; moisten the whole with 1 glass of stock and 2 glasses of red wine, and season with pepper and salt. Let it boil till half is consumed; then strain and put in the slices of hare, with a little vinegar, letting them heat, but not boil. CLARET. See Bordeaux Wines. CLARET, ARTIFICIAL. Distil in a cold still one part of clary water, half a part of red- streak cider, and put them with 6 lbs. of Malaga raisins beaten in a mortar, and 1 lb. of the fat mother of claret in a close vessel to ferment. When it has stood a fortnight draw it off, and for every gallon put | pint of mulberry, black- berry, or gooseberry juice, and 1 pint of spirit of clary; to the whole put 3 spoonsful of flour, the whites of 2 eggs, 1 drachm of isinglass, and 2 lbs. of syrup of clary. Mix the whole well together, and let it stand. When quite clear bottle it. CLARET RAGS are used for colouring jellies, confectionary, and the outside of cheese. They are made by soaking clean pieces of linen in mulberry juice, or the lees of any deep red wine, drying them and storing until required. CLARIFIED SOUP. Put into a pan from 8 to 10 lbs. of beef for boiling, with water suf- ficient to cover it, and let it boil slowly for three hours. Keep the pan lid on, and be careful to take off all the scum that rises. When done strain the broth. The dumplings, which are served in the tureen with the broth, are made as follows:—A quarter of a pound of butter beaten to a cream, 3 eggs well beaten and strained through a sieve, a little powdered mace, with some salt worked lightly into it, and as much flour as will make it into a light paste. Roll the dumplings in your hand about the size of an egg; take a sufficient quantity of the soup to boil the dumplings in ; let it be boiling when the dumplings are put in, and in ten minutes they will be ready. Add as much more of the soup as may be required to send it to table. The beef must be sent up as any other meat, and the following horseradish sauce, served in a butter tureen, to eat with it:— Gi'ate any quantity of horseradish you please, boil it in cream to the thickness of bread sauce, and send it up quite hot. This sauce is a fine relish to boiled beef in general. CLARIFYING is the act of clearing or fining liquids from heterogeneous or feculent ingredients. For this purpose the whites of eggs, blood, and isinglass are usually employed; the first two for clarifying liquors while boiling hot, the last for those which are to be fined when cold, as wine, ale, &c. The whites of eggs are beaten up into a froth, mixed with the liquor, and united with the impure particles floating on it, which soon indurate, and are carried up to the surface in the form of an insoluble scum. Blood operates in a similar manner, and is principally used in the processes of refining salt and sugar. Great quantities of isinglass are consumed in fining turbid wines. A solid piece, about J oz. in weight, is put into a cask of wine, where it gradually dissolves, and forms a skin \ipon the surface. This pellicle at length subsides, carrying down with it the fecu- lent matter that floated on lie wine. Other vintners previously dissolve the isinglass, and, having boiled it down to a gelatinous consist- ence, mix it with the liquor, strongly agitate the cask, and then let it stand to settle. It deserves, however, to be remarked, that wines treated in this manner are tainted with a very putrescent animal substance, and cannot be wholesome. CLARIFYING SUGAR. The first process which sugar undergoes in the hands of the confectioner is that of clarification. It is con-