FIS FIS [ 500 ] Soles. These are sent to table either fried or boiled; but in either case they should be cut right through the middle, bone and all, and a piece of about a third or fourth part of the fish given to each guest; but the distribution must be regulated by the size and other circum- stances. Plaice and other fish may be divided in the same manner. TuRBOT. Insert the fish knife or trowel into the middle of the fish over the backbone, and take out as much as will lie conveniently thereon from one side close to the bones. The thickest part is deemed the best, but not too near either the head or tail; and when the meat oir one side is removed raise the whole backbone with a knife and fork, after which you may serve from the under side. FISH: To Fey in Batter. The batter required for fish ought to be light, for if very thick it often gets heavy, and the fish is ill done. Make the batter of ale or milk, with the white of eggs, or rather more white than yolk ; dry the fish well, dip it into the batter, and fry it a very nice colour. If a little more batter is wanted dip the fish again into it, and put it into a frying-pan to colour. Parmesan or any other seasoning may be put in at the second dipping. All fried and boiled fish must be served up on a napkin or crisped parsley. FISH : To Pickle. Cut the fish into proper pieces, do not take off the scales, and make a brine strong enough to bear an egg, in which boil the fish. It must be boiled in only just liquor enough to cover it. Do not overboil it. When the fish is boiled lay it slantingly to drain off all the liquor. When cold pack it closely in the kits, and fill them up with equal parts of the liquor the fish was boiled in (having first well skimmed it), and best vinegar ; let it rest for a day, fill up again, striking the sides of the kits with a cooper's adze until they will re- ceive no more, and then head them down as closely as possible. FISH: To Scallop. Flake the fish, and imbed it in bread crumbs moistened with thin melted butter or cream, flavoured with any ap- proved sauce ; cover the top thickly with bread crumbs, lay bits of butter over, and bake it either before the fire or in a Dutch oven; or lay the fish in the bottom of the dish, with a rich white sauce of cream, and cover the top only with bread crumbs. FISH: To Stew. ' When the fish has been properly washed lay it in a stewpan, with half a pint of claret or port wine, a quart of good gravy, a large onion, a dozen berries of black pepper, the same of allspice, and a few cloves or a bit of mace; cover the fish kettle closely, and let it stew gently for ten or twenty minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Take the fish up, lay it on a hot dish, and cover it over ; thicken the liquor it was stewed in with a little flour, and season it with pepper, salt, essence of an- chovy, mushroom catsup, and a little chilli vinegar. When it has boiled ten minutes strain it through a tamis, and pour it over the fish. If there is more sauce than the dish will hold send the rest up in a boat. FISH, ASPIC OF. Put some warm savory jelly, about an inch and a half deep, into a plain tin or copper mould ; then take fresh smelts turned round, boil them gently in strong salt and water till done, and lay them on a drainer. When the savory jelly in the mould is quite cold put the smelts upon it, with the best side downwards; then put a little more jelly just lukewarm over the fish, and when that is cold fill the mould with more of the same kind. When it is to be served to table dip the mould in warm water, put the dish upon a jelly, and turn it over. FISH CAKE. Cut the meat from the bones, and put them, the head, and fins over the fire to stew for gravy, with a pint of water, an onion, herbs, pepper, and salt. Mince the meat; put to it one-third part crumbs of bread, a little minced onion, parsley, pepper, salt, and a very small piece of mace; mix well, and make it into a cake with white of egg and a little melted butter ; cover it with raspings, and fry it a pale brown, keeping a plate on the top while doing ; then lay it in a stewpan with fish gravy, and stew it gently fifteen minutes; turn it twice, but with great care not to break it; cover it closely while stewing. FISH, CASSEROLE OF. Take any kind of cold fish, and divide it into large flakes ; boil two or three eggs hard, and cut them in slices ; have also some mashed potatoes; butter a mould, and put in the fish, eggs, and potatoes, with a little delicate seasoning of white pepper; moisten the whole with cream or thin melted butter, and a spoonful of essence of anchovies; boil the mould and turn it out. FISH CATSUP. Take rather more than a pint of vinegar, three pints of red port, two table-spoonsful of pepper pounded very finely, plenty of shallots and horseradish, the peel of half a lemon, two or three bay leaves, and ] lb. of anchovies. Let the whole boil together until the anchovies are dissolved, then strain, and when cold put it into bottles. Two or three spoonsful are sufficient for a pound of butter. FISH CONSOMME. Take carp, tench, perch, eels, pike, and other fresh-water fish of the same kind ; clean them well, cut them into pieces as nearly of a size as may be, and lay them in a stewpan on a layer of sliced onions and carrots. As soon as they begin to sweat