BRE C 157 ] BRE pour in ; for in one hour you will find tbat small quantity raised, so that it will break through the dry flour you shook over it; and when you have poured in your quart of warm water, take your stick as before, and stir in some more flour until it is as thick as before; then shake some dry flour over it, and leave it for two hours more, and then you will find it rise and break through the dry flour again ; then you may add 3 quarts or 1 gallon of water, and stir in the flour, and make it as thick as at first, taking care to cover it with dry flour again, and in about three or four hours more you mix up your dough, and then cover it up warm; and in four or five hours more you may make it up into loaves, and put it in the oven, and you will have as light a bread as though you had used a pint of yeast. It does not take above a quarter of an hour more than the usual way of baking, for there is no time lost but that of adding the water three or four times. The author of this method assures us that he constantly bakes in this way. In the morning, about six or seven o'clock, he puts the flour in the trough, and mixes up the spoonful of yeast with the warm water; in an hour's time some more, in two hours more, and about noon makes up the dough, and about six in the evening it is put into the oven, and he has al- ways good bread, never heavy or bitter. Forming the dough. After the sponge has stood some time it will be found to have swelled considerably, and formed cracks in the covering of flour: when these cease to increase and widen it will be time to make up the dough. Flour, we have said, drinks up a considerable quantity of water; in fact, it becomes chemically com- bined with it; but few persons can form an opinion how much is absorbed. On this point housewives are far too remiss; for though per- fectly dry and good meal will take up much more water than that prepared from ill-harvested, sprouted corn, and though, also, the same flour will, in different states of weather, vary in its absorbent power, yet there exists too much of a careless ignorance on this important point. We request that the conscientious economist will note carefully every result, and thus make an approach towards accuracy; and in the mean- time we state that, as 24 lbs. of good flour will yield about 32 lbs. of bread, the weight thus increased must chiefly be acquired from the volume of water absorbed, which will be 1 gallon. Again, since much gas and vapour are expelled during the rising and baking of the dough, 2 quarts more of water should be allowed: the proportions then would be 24 lbs. of flour to 12 lbs. (pints) of water, and, therefore, that quantity, or more, should be at hand, heated to the degree of new milk. In winter the heat ought to be considerably higher; but in all seasons, as flour is a cold, heavy substance, it will require to be assisted by a genial tempe- rature. Everything being in readiness, scatter about 4 ozs. of salt over the dry flour, put some warm water to the sponge, work some of the flour into it, and thus add portions of water and flour till the whole becomes sufficiently moist to be formed, by kneading with the fists, into a firm, compact dough. The texture must be such that it can be brought together into a solid mass in the middle of the trough or pan, and then it is to be dusted over with flour to prevent it from adhering to the surface of the vessel. This dough is to stand covered over to swell, and in cold weather the vessel should be placed near the fire. If the ferment be well formed in the sponge it will act upon and distend the whole mass in the course of an hour. We have seen it rise and swell so much as to fill the vessel and raise up the covering cloth; and, like the sponge, it ought to be taken at the height of the action, and formed into loaves before it begins to fall back. Heating the oven. By the term oven we mean to express one built of and arched at the top with sound bricks, the bottom being laid with good tiles close-jointed. Bricks are slow con- ductors of heat; they receive it gradually, and retain it pertinaciously. Hence a baker's oven, which is heated daily, or nearly so, always pro- duces the best and most equally baked loaves. Iron, on the contrary, is a rapid conductor. Hence, though the oven will become hot enough, it cannot retain its temperature without per- petual accessions of actual fire. The bread, therefore, is either burnt, or it is unequally baked; frequently, also, the loaves are flat nnd their texture too solid. ] f the batch required be large, and the family possess a good bread "ven, the bread, of course, will be baked at home ; but if there be no proper oven, and three or four small or middling-sized loaves be made, it will be wise to send them to a baker, with whom an agree- ment may readily be made to bake them u]ion very moderate terms. Many persons adopt this method, and we know a family which has the finest bread we ever saw, where the loaves are prepared and sent to a baker twice a week. The disadvantage of an oven at home is this: it becomes cold, and therefore can never, by any weekly heating, be uniformly soaked, as it is termed. The baker's oven never loses its heat: the bread, therefore, I'ises higher, and is lighter. We recommend it then, as a point of economy, that a small family should not generally attempt to bake at home. Furze, small brushwood, and sound faggots are the best materials for the fire. With the first (where it is at hand) it can be lighted, and a blaze of intense heat maintained till the bulk of hot fuel be sufficient to kindle