[ 413 ] DIA DIA Diarrhoea may be occasioned by the applica- tion of cold to the surface of the body, suppi'essed perspiration, passions of the mind, acrid indi- gestible aliment, sour fruit, oily and putrid substances, the abuse of active purgatives, worms, retrocedent gout or rheumatism, and from a variety of other causes. In the treatment of diarrhoea it is usual to ' begin by giving an emetic of ipecacuanha in the evening, to cleanse the stomach and to promote all the natural secretions, and some gently as- tringent and acid opening medicine the next morning, such as rhubarb, 1 scruple ; magnesia, 80 grains. Make a powder, to be taken in a glass of cinnamon water; or castor oil or purging salts in the usual doses, drinking plentifully of diluent and demulcent drinks, such as linseed tea, barley water, mutton suet dissolved in milk, toast and water, and the like. Bathing the feet in warm water at night, taking at bedtime 10 grains of James's powder, ■should the disease have proceeded from ob- structed perspiration in consequence of exposure to cold, will be attended with much benefit. Strong purgatives in this disease are found to be improper, and ought only to be employed where it arises in consequence of a tenacious acrimony adhering to the intestines ; in this case Epsom or other neutral salts will be the most proper. Should the complamt have pro- ceeded from poisonous substances taken into the stomach the patient must drink plentifully of diluent liquors, with fat broths to promote vomiting, and a purge of castor oil immediately afterwards to carry the remainder downwards, after the operation of which from twenty to thirty drops of the tincture of opium may be taken to allay the irritation of the bowels. When it is occasioned by gout repelled from the extremities the latter must be invited back again to these parts by means of fomentations, poultices, or blisters, promoting at the same time perspiration by drinking plentifully of wine whey. Should these means prove ineffectual give compound tincture of rhubarb, 1 oz., after which the following absorbent mixture :—Take chalk mixture, 4 ozs.; spirit of cinnamon, 1 oz.; solution of the carbonate of ammonia, 1 drachm; tincture of opium, 24 drops ; two table-spoonsful of which are to be taken occa- sionally. Or, take compound powder of chalk with opium, 15 grains ; confection of roses enough to make a bolus, which may be taken twice a day, using a pint of the mixture of burnt harts- horn for ordinary drink. Either of the preceding absorbent remedies may be used, after the bowels have been evacu- ated, to subdue the irritability which accom- panies the disease. Should a looseness be caused by worms, which may be known from the sameness of the stools, mixed with pieces of decayed worms, the medi- cines advised under the head of Wor.ms must be given to carry them off. If it proceeds from un- wholesome water the addition of a small quantity of chalk or quicklime may correct it. When looseness is an attendant on teething it should never be stopped unless it goes so far as to debilitate or otherwise hurt the child. In this case four or five grains of toasted rhubai-b, with from eight to ten of prepared chalk or magnesia, given, and repeated if necessary, three or four times, will generally correct the acidity, and put an end to the griping stools. Should a looseness return frequently during dentition, or upon the striking in of some eruption upon the skin, it will be proper to procure a slight discharge from behind the ears, or to apply a Burgundy pitch plaster to the back. For the former a piece of tape drawn through a small bit of the plaster of Spanish flies may be placed behind the ears, or the part may be rubbed with finely powdered Spanish flies until it excoriates. A looseness that is likely to prove critical or salutary should by no means be. inconsiderately checked, but when it attacks pregnant women it must be immediately stopped by the most powerful means. To suspend the increased action of the intestines, which constitutes the disease, opiates may be given, either separately in small and repeated doses, or combined with whatever other medicines it may be proper to give. They may therefore be given with absorbents, as in the preceding, or with astringents, joined with aromatics and tonics; e.g.:—Take powdered alum and extract of catechu, of each 10 grains; opium, \ grain ; confection of roses enough to make a bolus, to be taken three or four times a day. Or, take kino, 10 grains; compound powder of chalk with opium, 15 grains; syrup of poppies enough to make a bolus, to be taken every fourth or sixth hour. Or, take chalk mixture, 5 ozs. ; extract of logwood, ^ drachm ; pimento water, '2 ozs.; tincture of kino, 1 drachm; syrup of ginger, 2 drachms. The dose of this may be two table-spoonsful three or four times a day. It may be superfluous to repeat that an emetic of ipecacuanha, with some stomachic purge, such as rhubarb, should always precede the use of every other remedy in this disease. The medicines most proper to restore the tone of the intestines at the termination of the disease are the Peruvian bark, calumba root, quassia, siraarouba, uusparia, iron, steel, &c., as recom- mended under Dyspepsia. Light nutritive diet of lamb, chicken, or rabbit, with moderate exer- cise, together with a proper quantity of port wine or sherry, or weak brandy and water where neither of the former may agree, for common drinis instead of malt liquors; and