CHE CHE [ 280 ] Cut off 18 yards for the six bodies, each body to be 3 yards in length. Then cut off 3 yards for the sleeves, each sleeve being J yard long; and 1 yard for the collars, each collar also being I yard long; J yard for wristbands, each wrist- band being 9 inches in length; 12 inches for sleeve-gussets, the gussets being 6 inches square each; and for shoulder-straps 10 inches. For neck-gussets, cut in half, 4t} inches. Instead of shoulder-straps and gussets sometimes pieces are let in on the shoulders, which gradually widen from those points to the neck. For grown persons the bosoms of night chemises should be cut down like shirt bosoms; and the bosoms, collars, and wristbands should be trimmed. It is preferable to make children's night chemises open at the back of the neck, and they should have the collars put on accord- ingly.—{Finchley Manual.) CHERRIES, BOTTLED. Gather your fruit before it becomes too ripe, and put it into bottles; fill them up as close as you can, and seal the corks. Place the bottles in a bain marie, and as soon as the water begins to boil lessen the fire, and a quarter of an hour after take the water out of the bain marie. CHERRIES IN BRANDY. Bruise a few cherries, mulberries, and raspberries, so that you may obtain from them ^ pint of clear juice, which mix with 1 pint of brandy and rather more than lib. of sugar, and dissolve it; put some fine cherries into bottles, cut the tails about half way, and pour on them the juice, brandy, &c,, which must cover the fruit. The cherries preserved in this way may be glazed with caramel, sugar, or white glaze, if you wish to serve them in a dessert. CHERRIES, COATED. Take half a dozen cherries that have been preserved in liquid, one of which must have the stalk on; drain them, cut them in half, and when the stone is taken cut place them round the one with the tail (which must not be cut), so as to form one large cherry. Cover it with fine powder sugar, and dry it in a stove or oven. CHERRIES, COMPOTE OF. Cut off the stalks of cherries about half way, and throw them into cold water; when the water is well drained from them put them into clarified sugar boiled to grande perle'; let them boil up over a quick fire five or six times; then take the preserving-pan from the fire, shake the pan, and skim When cool put them into com- potiers. CHERRIES, CONSERVE OF. Stone lib. of cherries, take the seeds from 2ozs. of red currants, and place them in a silver vessel over a moderate fire until the fruit is reduced to J lb. Boil 1^ lb. of sugar to the degree grande casse, throw the fruit into it, and stir them well together till it begins to puff up. You may then put the conserve into paper cases. - CHERRIES, DRIED. Arrange some sound, ripe cherries, with their stalks on, upon little hurdles made for the purpose. Take care not to place one upon another, and put them in a cool oven (just after the bread is drawn), and leave them to dry. When cold tie up in little bunches, and keep them in a dry place. CHERRIES, FRENCH. Hang morello cherries by the stalks singly in the sun to dry, in a place free from dust. When quite dry cut them from the stalks, and place them one by one in glasses ; cover them with powder sugar, and fill them up with white wine. Set them in a stove to swell, and then they are fit for use. CHERRIES, SYRUP OF. The best cherries for this purpose are black, sour ones. Take out the stones and express the juice into an earthen pan, where it must stand, in a cool place, for twenty-four hours to clear. At the end of that time pour the juice gently into a pan, and add to it, for each pound of juice, 2 lbs. of crushed sugar, and 2 drachms of cin- namon previously infused in a glass of water. Wrap the cinnamon in a piece of linen, and put it, with the water, into your pan; boil all together for half an hour, skimming it care- fully. When sufficiently done take out the cin- namon, strain the syrup till quite clear, and when cold bottle it. CHERRIES FOR TARTS. Prick some morello cherries with a needle, each three or four times, and let them stand in a dish with powder sugar sifted over them. The next day boil some sugar to a syrup, and whilst hot put the fruit into it. When it has remained in it twenty-four hours take it out, and boil the syrup again till very thick; then put in a little brandy, and add the cherries. When cold put them into glasses, and keep them in a cool place. CHERRIES EN TIMBALE. Take the stones very carefully from 2 lbs. of good, red, fleshy cherries; add to them the kernels, and put them, with some clarified sugar, into a sugar-pan, and boil them gently till very thick; then put them into a basin, and mix with them the juice of 2 lemons and a little clarified isinglass. Set this on ice, and, j ust before you serve it, put it into a timbale paste previously prepared. CHERRY. Cherry trees, exclusively of their delicious fruit, afford, by their plentiful leaves, an excellent article of food for fattening hogs. They also exude a gum in some respects equal to gum arabic, and which is so extremely nu- tritive, that above a hundred men were kept alive, during a siege, for nearly two months,