[ 118 J BIT BIT covere(3 v;ith. a broAvn rind, and furnisted witli numerous small fibres and creepers ; the stalk is simple, bending, solid, round, smooth, swelled at the joints, enclosed by the sheaths of the stipulse, and is l^foot or 2 feet in height; the leaves, rising direct from the root, are ovalish, or rather, heart-shaped, pointed, and stand upon long winged footstalks; the upper leaves em- brace the stem, and are narrower and undulated. The flowers stand upon short footstalks, and terminate the stalk in an oblong close spike; the corolla is small, of tubular appearance, and divided into five oval obtuse segments, of a reddish-white colour, and at the base supplied with several nectareous glands; the bracteal or floral leaves are membraneous, withered, and each incloses two flowers; the filaments are tapering, white, longer than the corolla, and the anthers are purple ; the styles are three, about the length of the stamens; the stigmas are small and round; the germen is triangular, of a red colour, and the seeds are brown and re- markably glossy. Bistort is a native of Britain; it grows in moist meadows, and flowers in May and Sep- tember. Every part of the plant manifests a degree of roughness to the taste, and the root is esteemed to be one of the most powerful of the vegetable astringents. Lewis says that this " astringent matter is totally dissolved both by water and rectified spirit, the root, after the action of a sufficient quantity of either men- struum, remaining insipid. On distilling the tinctures the water and spirit arise unflavoured, leaving extracts of intense stypticity." The root of bistort was formerly considered to be a poison-antidote and sudorific; but its uses seem only to be derived from its styptic powers ; it is, therefore, chiefly given in haemorrhages and other immoderate fluxes. Dr. Cullen ob- serves that the bistort, "by its sensible quali- ties, and by the colour it gives with green vitriol, and by the extracts it affords, seems to be one of the strongest of pur vegetable astringents, and is justly commended for every virtue that has been ascribed to any other. As such we have frequently employed it, and particularly in intermittent fevers, and in larger doses than those commonly mentioned in Materia Medica writers. Both by itself and along with gentian we have given it to the quantity of 3 drachms a day." The dose of the root in substance is from a scruple to a drachm. BITES. See Adder and Hydrophobia. BITTERS in medicine are one description of tonics given for the purpose of strengthening the stomach, and by that means invigorating the general health. The custom of infusing bitter herbs in vinous drinks is very ancient and uni- versal. The Poculum absinthiatum was regarded in remote ages as a wholesome beverage, and wormwood was supposed to act as an anti- dote against drunkenness. The Swiss peasant cheers himself amidst the cold solitude of his glaciers with a spirit distilled from gentian, the extreme bitterness of which is relished with a glee that is quite unintelligible to a more culti- vated taste. With regard to the natural use of bitter extractive, it may be laid down as a truth that it stimulates the stomach, corrects putrefy- ing and unwholesome nutriment, promotes tardy digestion, increases the nutritive powers of those vegetable substances to which it is united, and furnishes a natm-al remedy for the deranged functions of the stomach in particular, and, through the sympathetic medium of that organ, for the defect of muscular power of remote parts in general. Quinine, colomba, gentian, camomile, dande- lion, chicory, and some other vegetable products are the chief bitters. They are given in the form of pills, mixtures, and draughts, the fol- lowing being some of the prescriptions :—Take of extract of gentian 2 drachms. Make 24 pills; 3 to be taken twice a day. Or, take of extract of hop 2 drachms. Make 24 pills ; to be taken as the preceding. Take of compound tincture of gentian 4 ozs. fluid as a mixture, of which 1 table-spoonful to be occasionallj^ given. Or, take of compound infusion of gentian, 4 ozs. fluid; compound tincture of gentian, 2 ozs. fluid. Mix them; 2 table-spoonsful to be used twice a day. Or, take of quassia-root, 1 drachm; boil- ing water, 10ozs. fluid; soak for an hour, and to 6 ozs. fluid of the strained liquor add aromatic confection, 2drachms; tincture of colomba,oz. fluid. Mix them; 2 table-spoonsful may be taken occasionally. For a draught take of extract of hop, ^ scruple ; allspice water, l|-oz. fluid; aro- matic spirit of ammonia, 20 drops ; tincture of orange, syrup of ginger, each 2 drachms fluid. Make a draught; it should be given daily two hours before, and at the same time after dinner. BITTERS, ALE. Steep in I gallon of ale 4 ozs. each of gentian root and fresh lemon- peel. After ten days strain the liquor off and bottle it for use. BITTERS, BRANDY. Gentian root, ilb.4 orange-peel, 6 ozs.; cardamom seed, 2ozs.; cin- namon, ^oz.; cochineal, 5 oz.; brandy, l^- gallon. BITTERS, GIN. Steep for ten days in 13 gallons of gin, 1 to 5 under proof, ^ oz. of coriander seed, ^ oz. of almond cake, 2 ozs. of Virginia snakeroot; then, after the above is steeped and taken out, mix in j^our mortar J oz. of the oil of orange, \ oz. of the oil of carawaj', ^ oz. of the oil of wormwood, with a small quan- tity of spirits, until it all becomes an oil. Put to the above 3 gallons of spirits, with ] 3 quarts of cold water that has been boiled, and it will