C 108 ] BIL 3HA The leaves and flowers have a bitterish taste, accompanied with a weak aromatic flavour. They are mild corroborants, and when infused or gently boiled the decoction may be drunk as tea. A strong tincture made in rectified spirit has proved beneficial in laxity and debility, when taken in small, repeated doses. It is remarkable that the roots of this plant greatly differ in quality from the other parts ; the former are bitter, nauseous, and, like the roots of helle- bore, occasion violent diarrhoea when taken in a small dose. It is further affirmed that betony affects those who gather any quantity of its leaves and flowers with a disorder resembling the effects of intoxication. BHAURTA is a dish of vegetables much used in India, being mashed potatoes, seasoned with capsicums and onions, shaped in a mould, and served hot to table. BILBERRY. See Whortlebeery. BILBOQUET FRITTERS. Break 5 eggs into two handsful of fine flour, with milk enough to make it assimilate with the rest; then add salt, and work it again. When the batter is well made, put in a tea-spoonful of powdered cinna- mon, the same quantity of grated lemon-peel, and •J oz. of candied citron, cut small. Rub a pan with butter, and put in the paste. Set it over a slow fire, and when baked take out the paste, and lay it on a dish. Place another stewpan on the fire, with a good deal of lard, and when it boils, cut the paste to the size of your finger and notch it across each end, which will cause it to rise and be hollow, so as to have a pleasing effect. Great care must be taken that they do not rise too much. When done, sift sugar on a warm dish, and shake some over the fritters. BILIOUS ATTACKS, as they are commonly called, arise more often from a deficiency than from an excess of bile. In other words, such attacks are fits of indigestion, and are occa- sioned, not only by eating and drinking what the stomach cannot digest, but by over-exertion and anxiety. Flatulence, headache, nausea, pal- jiitation of the heart, irritability of temper, pros- tration of spirits and strength, are the usual symptoms. In the first j^lace, abstinence should be strictly observed, not merely in the com- mencement, Avhen indeed there is no great merit in it, from the loathing of food which is com- monly present, but also in the subsequent stages, when the return of- appetite indicates the com- mencing restoration of the powers of the stomach. Premature indulgence at this period is often attended with the worst consequences, and in variably tends to prolong the duration of the complaint. If there be much uneasiness and dis tress felt at the stomach without actual vomit- ing, or if that organ be loaded with food, exces- sive in quantity and improper in quality, it will be generally advisable to employ an emetic of the following kind :—Take powder of ipecac- uanha, 15 gi-ains; tartarised antimony, 1 grain. To be taken in warm water. Or, let a table- spoonful of antimonial wine be taken eveiy ten minutes until it operates. If vomiting has already taken place, these medicines will of course be unnecessary; it is to be encouraged in moderation, by drinking occasionally some luke- warm water. Vomiting, however, should not be allowed to continue too long; the only object is to empty the stomach and upper part of the intestines, and anj'thing which goes much far- ther than this is both injurious and unnecessary. It often happens that, after the contents of the stomach have been fully evacuated, that organ remains in a very irritable state, and vomiting continues, either spontaneously or immediately upon swallowing anything, however mild or small in quantity. This is injurious, and should not be promoted, but checked. If the vomiting be connected with much pain at the stomach and with heartburn, there is nothing so good as a glass of water, as hot as it can be drank; lukewarm water promotes vomiting, hot water checks it. If there be less pain, but more fever, and a burning heat in the skin, advantage will often be derived from sipping cold water, not taking more than a table-spoonful at a time. If the vomiting be obstinate, and if the pit of the stomach be tumid and tender to the touch, there is reason to suspect the existence of inflamma- tion of the stomach, and in this case more bene- fit will be derived from the application of four or six leeches than from anything that could be devised. A piece of linen cloth dipped in laudanum, and applied externally, m many instances afford relief when all other measures have failed. Or, the following prescription may be employed:—Take of sub-carbonate of potash, 15 gi'ains ; camphor mixture, 1 oz. Mix, and let the draught be tt-ken in a state of efferves- cence, from the addition of | oz. of lemon-juice, and repeat it every three or four hours, as occa- sion may be. The next step to be taken is to evacuate the contents of the bowels, if they be not already relaxed. If there be purging, this, like the vomiting, should be favoured in the first instance; and there is less occasion for anxiety about its continuance, as it is rarely attended with serious consequences. For this purpose the patient should drink freely of mild diluents, such as tea, gruel, barley water, &c., -and should abstain from solid food of every kind The most suitable nourishment is weak broth. If the bowels are costive, or inclined to be so. after the operation of the emetic, or the cessation of spontaneous vomiting, a pui'gative should be given, its strength being proportioned to the habit of the patient and other circumstances.