GAS [ 543 j GAR for a pint of gravy; but the best way is to send some of it to table in a cruet, as many persons are not fond of garlic. GARNET. The " precious garnet" is the carbuncle of the ancients, and always red. It is sometimes called the almandine and Green- landite. Its chief constituents are flint [silica), clay (alumina), and rust [oxide) of iron. It is so hard that it will scratch glass, a power which distinguishes it from the usual counterfeit garnets. GARNITURE. Put some cocks' combs, kid- neys, and livers into warm water, that all the blood may soak out, and when they are clean have ready some hot, but not boiling water, into which throw the cocks' combs ; stir them about, and take them out one by one ; lay them in a cloth with some salt, rub them well to remove the pellicle, and then put them again into warm water. The kidneys when cleansed should be boiled in a blanc for half an hour; the livers must be blanched in water that simmers only, to prevent their becoming hard, though they should be firm. When all are cold trim and drain them for use. GARNITURE A LA FLAMANDE. Cut thirty carrots and as many turnips into pieces about two inches and a half long, and not quite one in diameter, which boil in a consomme with a little sugar; take thirty lettuces braised with cabbages, drain, press, and trim them, then lay them round a dish alternately as follows—a lettuce, a carrot, and a turnip, leaving the centre of the dish for such meat as you think proper to use; have ready thirty glazed onions to garnish your lettuces, &c. When the meat is ready for table pour over it a nivernaire, reduced and mixed with a little reduced Espagnole. GARNITURE EN RAGOUT. Put into a saucepan some cocks' combs and kidneys, fat livers, lambs' sweetbreads, tniffles, quenelles, and mushrooms; pour over these sufficient Espagnole travaillee; or, if you wish your ragout white, put the yolks of three or four eggs into some veloute, and use that to dress the above articles instead of Esjmgnole. GARTERS.' We must censure the use of tight garters, particularly in m3n, to whom they are altogether unnecessary. Whether females can do without them is scarcely fair to question ; but if any substitute or contrivance can be adopted in their place it will amply compensate any little trouble or inconvenience. The stock- ings can easily be tied to some tape fastened to the waistband. This apparently trifling im- provement is of greater moment than many are inclined to imagine, for garters are undoubtedly the cause of much mischief, whether tied above or below the knee. The part to which they are applied acquires an unnatural hard- ness ; they dispose the thighs and legs to dropsy, induce great fatigue in walking, and are very probably the cause that cert lin persons so frequently stumble, fall, and dislocate the kneepan. GAS, COOKING BY. We can bear un- reserved testimony to the superiority of gas for cooking. It is superior as a source of heat for the purpose, because the heat is perfectly regular and equally applied; there are no cinders or other dirt falling into the frying-pan, and it saves a great amount of labour and attention. We have employed for many years a gas-cook- ing apparatus invented by Mr. James Sharp, manager of the Gas-works, Southampton, and we assent to all the following particulars, which we borrow from his little pamphlet entitled, " Observations on the Practical Advantages attending the Use of Coal Gas." The method of cooking by gas reduces culinary operations to something like a certainty, and it is adapted to all the processes of cooking. The apparatus is simple, cleanly, and econo- mical, and is calculated for families of every rank, from the palace to the cottage, as well as for public establishments of every description, hotels, taverns, coffee-houses, &c. Foi' boiling water. This may be accomplished in ten or fifteen minutes with unfailing certainty, and at a very triflhig cost. In fact, no other mode of producing heat will bear comparison with gas for economy, rapidity, or certainty of effect. By this mode also tea, coffee, soups, hot closets, &c., may be kept permanently at any given temperatm'e. For roasting meat, poultry, game, &c., this process is extremely simple, and free from trouble, anxiety, or nuisance. The meat being suspended, and the gis lighted, it may be left until it is done, which will take about the same time as before a common fire, and so little heat escapes that the cook may stand near it in the hottest weather without inconvenience. The flavour is decidedly improved, all the nutritious juices being retained; and the heat being applied equally to all parts of the joint, it is not liable to be scorched or burnt, but comes to the table of a beautiful brown colour. The extra value of the dripping, which is collected in a perfectly pure and delicate state, will pay for the gas con- sumed, added to which the loss of weight is very much reduced by this in comparison with the ordinary method of roasting. For boiling, steaming, baking, broiling, and frying, also, this invention is peculiarly ap- plicable. Indeed, there is no description of cooking to whicjh gas may not be advantageously applied. The whole apparatus may be i>laced on a dresser in any part of the room, or even in a cupboard.