[ 107 ] BET BER incli larger than the exact size of the work, stretch it tightly and evenly in the frame, then tack the cloth smoothly and firmly underneath, the face of the cloth being towards the canvass, and the nap running towards the front edge of the work. In working on a light cloth do not pass the wool through any part that will not be covered with the pattern. Gobelin, or tapestry stitch. This very beauti- ful style of work, in imitation of the inimitable Gobelins, is not produced so often as we would wish, its great merit demanding for it a more prominent position in the scale of fancy needle- work than it now occupies. When executed by an artistic hand it meets with universal appro- bation, but we presume that the care and skill required in its production have been the great bar to its universality. It is worked by crossing two threads in height and one in breadth, work- ing two stitches for every one in the Berlin patterns; but in working on a drawn pattern the needlewoman would exercise her own judg- ment in the arrangement of the shades, without regard to the number of stitches in the breadth, though in depth they must be perfectly regular. It must not be attempted out of a frame, nor should it be worked on canvass coarser than twenty-five threads to the inch, or the threads will be exposed between the rows. Short lengths of wool should be taken in the needle, which should be divested of all irregularities. The knots must be kept on the right side, and in a line with the stitch you are working. When well executed the back will be as even as the face, and present an appearance almost similar. Raised work. This work is more light and elegant when worked on white silk canvass. If executed on cotton canvass and grounded, let all the cross stitch be done first, and the canvass be very evenly and firmly stretched in a frame, a piece of fine holland being tacked over the parts intended to be raised. If the figure to be raised be a bird, and it counts eighty stitches or the like from the crown to the tip of the tail, cut that number of slips of card a quarter or three- eights of an inch wide, taking care that they are quite long enough for the width of the bird. Begin with single Gorman wool by putting the needle from the under side, on the left of the first thread and two threads from the top; then take one of your card meshes in the left hand, hold it edgeways on the upper side of your wool, and pass the needle through on the right of the thread in the same way that you would work the Gobelin stitch: this will secure your mesh in its place. Now continue the whole row the same way, working two stitches over the mesh for every one on the Berlin pattern, precisely the same way that the Gobelin stitch is done. Now take the second mesh and work as before, and so on till the whole is finished, leaving all the meshes in the work. Apply a weak solution of gum arabic at the back, and when it is dry take a sharp penknife and release them all, by insert- ing the point at the end of every row and pass- ing it quickly along the whole length; then, with a pair of sharp-pointed scissors, reduce the edges and depths of the shadows, and smooth the surface generally. Glass eyes must be in- serted in all raised figures, as they cannot be executed effectively in wool. Raised work is often done over a steel mesh with a sharp blade, which is attached to the end, when it is covered with stitches, and drawn through the whole, thereby cutting the work even as it proceeds Each stitch is secured in the same way that urn rugs were formerly fringed, but this method is very tedious and unnecessary (unless it is per- formed on the hand), as when the work is shorn the wool expands, and its fibres so intermingle that there is not the least fear of its ever coming out; in fact it is rendered firmer than otherwise by use. Patterns worked with embroidery chenille in the Gobelin tapestry stitch are quite equal in effect to flat-raised work, and have the merit of being more speedily executed. BETONY, WOOD, called by botanists Be- toriica officinalis, was once highly prized as a medical plant. The leaves and tops of the betony have an agreeable but weak smell: to the taste they discover a slight warmth, accom- panied with some degree of astringency and bitterness. They yield very little essential oil, insomuch that only a few drops can be obtained from a large quantity of the herb. Betony, like many other plants formerly in great me- dical estimation, is at this time almost entirely disregarded. Antouius Musa, physician to the Emperor Augustus, filled a whole volume by enumerating its virtues, stating it as a remedy for no less than forty-seven disorders ; and hence in Italy arose this proverbial compliment, " You have more virtues than betony." Simon PauUi also ascribes to it powers, which may be con- sidered as rather miraculous than natural, and which did not seem to require contradiction from the experiments of Alston. Modern writers do not allow the betony to possess any consider- able efl&cacy: Scopoli, indeed, says that he ex- perienced its cephalic and corroborant effects; but its sensible qualities show it to be more inert than most of the other verticillatse. Both this plant and eyebright entered into the com- position of Rowleij's British herb tobacco and siivff. Tanners have employed this plant as a substitute for oak bark ; and, according to Dam- bourney, the leaves and branches of the betony, when in blossom, may be used for dyeing wool of a permanent dark-brown colour, when pre- viously dressed in a weak solution of bismuth.