[ 256 ] CEL OEM the top cork-hole, -with brown paper round tlie top. A strong iron skewer to raise bungs with. A middle-sized cooper's gimlet, the size of the small spigots and faucets. A quire of strong brown paper to put round cocks, and another quire to make hop-bags with. Two large, sti'ong sponges to clean the outsides of the casks, &c. A pair of slings to grapple the casks with to take into the cellars, for rolling them will cause dirt to hang about them, &c. A pair of strong folding steps. Half a dozen mahogany spigots and faucets, about the size of the little finger, to be had of the best turner (being much supe- rior to pegs, which are wasteful) to try all liquors if they are fine, &c. A strong hammer and an iron driver, such as coopers use to drive down the hoops with, which have loosened from tubs, casks, &c. Two split sticks for cellar candlesticks. Six iron-bound tap-tubs, and brush to clean them with. A whisk for the yeast, wine finings, &c. A 6-gallon tub for the yeast, and pour the beer from it daily, then whisk the yeast up in the tub, and it will be fit for use. Delft labels to hang on the tops of all the liquor bins, as claret, Champagne, sheriy, Calcavalla, porter, cider, perry, port, Rhenish, &c. A pewter crane, and valinch. Four or six ice pails for wines, &c., in summer. A wine basket made to hold bottles that are crusted on their sides to bring from the cellar in that position. A raising-jack to raise wine in casks upon their stands. A flogger to beat up the wine bungs with. Two strong iron-bound pails. A Gun- ter's gauge-rule. A stamped bushel measure, to measure the malt, with a strike. A small cooper's adze. A pair of steelyards, or scales, to weigh the hops, with stamped lead or iron ■weights, to be kept dry. Two tin funnels, to put in spare bottles when bottling off. A large wood, ditto, for all beers. Two low stools to sit on. A leather apron with a pocket before for pegs, &c., and bib to button up on the waist- coat. A flannel bag, with hoop on top, made as a jelly-bag, to run the lees of all wine through. A common corkscrew. An iron-bound wine-can for fining wines in. A hoe, a spade, six good stiff birch brooms, and the same number of strong rag mops. The use of the iron skewer is to raise up the bung by degrees, first giving it vent, for drawing it up with the hands is a dangerous operation. Have a large cupboard made and fixed in the cellar, or near it, m a dry spot, to hold most of the small tools, so that everything may be at hand when wanted. Such tools as are too large for the cupboard may be kept in the brew- house. CELLAR BOOK. This should always be kept. In this let ewerj dozen of wine brought in be entered; and beneath it be left space enough to record how and when each bottle of it is used. See Wine. CEMENT, ARMENIAN, or Diamond Ce- ment, so called because used by the Armenian jewellers for fixing diamonds and other jewels in their places. It is thus made:—Isinglass, 1 oz.; distilled water, 6 ozs. fluid. Boil these together until reduced to 3 ozs. of liquid, mea- sured, then add IJoz. fluid of strong spirits of wine, say 60° above proof. Boil the whole to- gether for a couple of minutes; strain it, and, while hot, add to it first ^ oz. of a milky emulsion of gum ammoniac, and then 5 drachms fluid of an alcoholic solution of mastic. This is veiy ef- fectual for mending broken glass and china, and fastening the loose leaves of books. It must be kept well-stopped, and, when required to be used, the bottle in which it is be placed in hot water until its contents are quite liquid. Make the fragments of china or glass quite hot before using the cement. CEMENT, BOTANY BAY (fob Broken COARSE Red Earthenware. Melt together 2 ozs. of Botany Bay resin, and very finely- sifted brickdust. Apply whilst quite hot, and the earthenware to be heated also. CEMENT, CHINA (for Mending coarser Earthenware), is made by smearing the edges of the pieces with the white of an egg, sprink- ling over this quicklime, previously pounded and sifted very fine, and then pressing the surfaces of the fractures together. This does not resist moisture. CEMENT, FRENCH (foe Fixing Botani- cal Specimens, Artificial Flowers, etc.). Half an ounce of gum arable, 8 ozs. of water thickened with starch, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice added. It keeps well. CEMENT, GUM, or Gum Water. This is usually made with gum arable, but gum traga- canth is far superior for the purpose. Put ^oz. ■ of the best gum tragacanth into 4 ozs. of water, and let it stand by the fire until completely rendered a jelly ; then add 1 oz. of gin, and thin it with this spirit whenever needed. It keeps for mouths, and is excellent for pasting paper. CEMENT, JAPANESE, or Rice Glue. Mix thoroughly rice-flour into a thick paste with a little cold water, then add very gradually (stirring all the time), boiling water, until it is of the thickness desired. Then boil for a minute in a clean pipkin. This very white and trans- parent cement is much used for joining pieces of ornamental paper-work. CEMENT, MARINE (for Joining Wood). Dissolve I oz. of shellac, and the same quantity of caoutchouc, in naphtha, separately, and then mix them together. The less naphtha employed the stronger the cement. It resists water. CEMENT, TOOTH (for Stopping Decayed