[ 80 ] BAT BAT blood in the braiu, this must be removed before any good can result from a bath, and after its removal the convulsive actions will generally subside. The same good effect will follow free scarification of the gums, if a tooth be preparing to protrude. [See Anti-spasmgdics.) Even when the bath is properly applied, the good which might be derived from it is often frus- trated by inattention or ignorance. The bath is prepared at random, and the temperature is never sufficiently regarded. If above 96° it cannot fail to be injurious. During the existence of all active inflamma- tion, at whatever age, the warm bath may be pronounced an unfit measure; and even after the acuteness may have been reduced by active antiphlogistic means, the warm bath is a doubt- ful remedy, if we except a very few cases. Of these inflammation of the peritoneum is the best marked exception ; but even here the bath is a very secondary means towards lowering the action of the system, though it may ^assist the flow of blood from leech bites, and may be con- tinued till a tendency to faint shows itself. In acute rheumatism, after venesection, the ■warm bath may, perhaps, be employed, if we can insure its being followed by copious perspiration. ¥oT this purpose the patient should have the bath close to his bed, remain in it for half or three-quarters of an hour, be well rubbed with warm flannel cloths, replaced in bed between warm blankets, take diaphoretic medicines, and drink bland, warm fluids, such as gruel or weak tea, and maintain the perspiration for twenty- four or forty-eight hours. In a disposition to gout or rheumatism the warm bath is more proper than when a paroxysm of these diseases occurs. In such cases the natural warm baths are preferable : those of the Queen's Bath, or Cross Bath at Bath, the temperature of which is from 94° to 96°, are well calculated for such cases. In few chronic inflammatory diseases are warm baths allowable, if we except some of those of the digestive organs, especially sub-acute in- flammation of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines. Indigestion is often the most common symptom accompanying this state, and it is almost always benefited by a course of warm or tepid bathing. The other states to which warm bathing is imsuited are great general torpor, but especially of the skin; also when there is a tendency to profuse secretion from the skin ; when there is great plethora or fulness of the vascular system, especially of the veins ; in tendency to active haemorrhage; in aneurism, or any disease of the heart; also in cases of a tendency to apoplexy : lastly, in extreme atony, or excessive irritability of the nervous system. In the very extreme cases of derangement of the nervous system the warm bath is unfit; in more moderate derange- ments of it, a more applicable or useful remedy cannot be found. In cases of nervous exhaus- tion from intense literary employment, or official or parliamentary duties, the warm bath is of great service, more particularly when, in addition to the warm bath, the cold douche is employed, directed upon the head for a few seconds, wliile the patient is in the bath. In the milder cases of mania it has been found of great use. In cases of contractions of the joints from warm rheumatic or gouty inflammation, the bath, or, what is better, the local vapour-bath, is of service in restoring the flexibility of the limb. It may be briefly stated that the warm bath is much more serviceable when there is a tendency to disease, constitutional or accidental, or in convalescence, than in any other circum- stances. It is therefore rather to be considered as a preventive than remedial measure. But its value in this point of view is very great; and it is to be regretted that it is not sufficiently appreciated and used. It is exceedingly bene- ficial as a means of allaying the irritation of the vascular system, which occurs in young persons disposed to consumption, when the disease is beginning slowly to impair the in- tegrity and healthfulness of the lungs or other important organs. To prevent the developm.ent of the morbid deposit in the lungs is of infinite importance, and this will be best accomplished by keeping up a more vigorous action of the skin. The bath must be persevered in for a length of time. Proper bathing-rooms should exist in every well-constructed house; but as this is rarely the case in this country, a good substitute may be obtained by using some of the recently-invented bathing-machines, which combine facilities for using the diff'erent kinds of bath in the same apparatus. The best which we have seen is that made by Read, of the Regent Circus,London, which has an apparatus for apply- ing the douche while in the warm bath, and may be used as a cold, a shower, a warm, a douche, or a vapour-bath ; it is therefore called the uni- versal bath. Baths should be attached to all large manufactories as a refreshment for the workmen, to insure cleanliness, and as a means of warding ofi' many diseases. In lead-works, painters' and plumbers' establishments, they would protect the men from painters' cholic ; and in other establishments they would preserve the workmen from many cutaneous diseases. " A multitude of chronic inflammations of the skin are produced by uncleauliness, or other agents, which directly irritate the skin; and it is to the want of cleanliness in the inferior classes that Willan attributes the frequency of cutaneous diseases in London. In France,