[ 1-6 3 BUN BUN and frequently to inflame; it becomes stiff, and they cannot walk without pain. A bunion plaster should immediately be applied, which is of the same kind as that which we have described below, but larger than for corns. Indeed the circle, or hole, which is required to admit the enlargement on the joint will be 'found the size that is required for the corn plaster, that is, about the circumference of a shilling. A foot which is disfigured by a bunion will always be found to take an unsightly direction towards the ends of the toes: the great toe of the right foot, for example, turning towards the next, and in time pressing against it and causing corns. To remedy this, and to assist the of&ce of the plaster, a piece of cotton wool, or, better still, several thicknesses of doeskin fastened to- gether should be insinuated between the large and second toe, at the end, as this tends to lessen the pressure of the shoe at the joint. Considerable relief may be obtained by binding a strip of common adhesive plaster a quarter of a yard in length, and about a quarter of an inch wide, round the great toe and second toe, just above the ball of the foot, sufficiently tight to permit the patient to walk with ease. This will strengthen the joint and prevent the ball of the foot enlarging. It is far better to wash the feet every morning with a piece of flannel and yellow soap and warm water, than to soak them at night; tlie inflammation of the bunion may be thus gradually reduced. It is also a good plan to place a piece of soap plaster, or common diachylon plaster spread on thick, soft wash- leather, all over the bunion or corn ; this relieves from the pressure of the shoe. The late Dr. Warren recommended soaking the feet in mus- tard and water, or merely rubbing the bunions with flour of mustard and water, taking care not to raise a blister. The application for a few times has been known to give considerable relief. BUNS. See American Buns. BUNS, BATH. See Bath. BUNS, COMMON. Rub 2 ozs. of butter into 2 lbs. of flour, 4 ozs. of sugar, a little Jamaica pepper, and a few caraway seeds. Put 1 or 2 spoonsful of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good milk as will make the above into a light paste; set it by the fire to rise. They will bake quickly on tins. You may add nutmeg. BUNS, CROSS. To the above mixture put oz. of ground allspice, cinnamon and mace mixed, and when half proved press the form of a cross, with a tin mould, in the centre, and finish as above. BUNS, RICHER. Put 4 lbs. of fine flour in a wooden bowl; set a sponge of it with 1 gill of yeast and 1 pint of warm miik ; then mix with it 1 lb. of sifted sugar, lib. of oiled fresh butter, coriander seeds, cinnamon, and mace, a small quantity of each pounded fine. Roll the paste into buns, set them on a baking-plava rubbed with butter, put them in a moderate oven to prove, then wash them with a paste- brush dipped in warm milk, and bake of a good colour. BUNS, SCOTCH (Christmas). Take 4 lbs. of stoned raisins, 2J lbs. of currants well cleaned and dried, i lb. of blanched almonds, of candied orange and lemon-peel ^ lb. each, 4 lbs. of flour, and 22 ozs. of butter. Then rub the butter with the flour till well mixed together; add a little warm water and ^ pint of good fresh yeast, and work it into a light, smooth paste ; cut off nearly one-third of the paste to form the sheet or case, and lay it aside. With the rest work up the fruit, sweetmeats, and spices; make it into a round form like a thick cheese. Roll out the sheet of paste, lay the bun in the centre, and gather it all round, closing it at the bottom by wetting the edges of the paste and cutting it so as to lie quite flat. Turn it up, and run a wire or small skewer through from the top to the bottom every here and there, and prick the top with a fori?. Double and flour a sheet of grey paper, and lay the bun upon it; bind a piece round the sides, also doubled and floured, to keep the bun in a proper shape. Bake it in a modei-ate oven. BUNS, SCOTCH (Rich). Take 8 lbs. of flour, 1 pint of yeast, 2 lbs. of butter made into a dough; put it in a warm place to rise. Have 41bs. of stoned raisins, 4 lbs. of well-cleaned currants, 2 lbs. of orange-peel, I lb. of citron, 2 lbs. of blanched sweet almonds, all cut small; i oz. of nutmeg, 1 oz. of allspice, 1 oz. of cloves, 1 oz. of cinnamon, 1 oz. of corianders, J oz. of ground aniseed, J oz. of caraway seed. Mix all well together; separate two-thirds of the dough and mix the fruit and spices with it. Mix them well in. Roll out the other third into a sheet sufficiently large to cover the fruit-dough; lay it on it, work it out with the hands into a round shape till it is three inches thick; draw up the paste all over and make it meet in the middle; turn it over upon a sheet of soft brown paper that has been floured, and bind it up ydth a paper band rubbed with oiled butter to prevent it sticking. Prick it well, put it in a very hot oven. It will be known when it is done enough by thrusting a knife through the centre ; when the knife comes out quite clean it is baked. Brush the top over with cold water when it is taken out of the oven. It should not be cut for two days. BUNS, SEED. Take 2 lbs. of plain bun dough, and mix in 1 oz. of caraway seeds, butter the insides of tart pans, mould the dough into buns, and put one into each pan ; sot therr. to rise' in a warm place, and when sufficiently