DOS DO a [ 426 i occasionerl hy the negligence or misconrluRt of his servant, provuled tlie negligence or miscon- duct arises in th« course of the servant's employ- ment. Tims it' a servunt, by negligent driving his master's CHrriage or riding his horse, occa- sions an injury, the master is liable lor the damage arising from such negligence. But the master is not liable for the wilful or malicious act of his servant not done in the execution of his master's orders, as where a servant wilfully strikes another person's horses, and thereby causes an accident, the master would not be liable; so also when a servant has no business with his master's horses, or who, contniry to his ordei's, uses them, and in so doing causes an injury to another, the master •would not be liable. Neither can a master he made liable for the acts of a person who is only under bis tempo- rary control and employment, and who is not strictly speaking his servant; thus a person who hires a carriage and horses with a driver by the day, the hirer would not be responsible for any damage occasioned by the negligence of the driver, for, Although he may be under the temporary control of the hirer, he is not so completely his servant as to render him liable for his acts. The jubman in this case, whose servant the driver is, would be the party liable. Even where a driver and horses have been hired from a jobman for a longer period, as for a month, and the hirer found a livery for the driver, the hirer has been held not to be liable. So also the postmaster, and not the hirer, is responsible for the neglect of the I ostboy. 'I las principle of liability may be applied to (tlier cases where a damage or injury arises from the negligence or misconduct of a servant, and it may be laid down as a general rule that when- ever the servant (being strictly speaking the servant of the master) is under his control, and actine under his orders, the master is liable for 1 is acts. liie servant himself would be responsible whenever the act amounts to a misfeasance or tort, or, in other words, not a mere act of omis- sioii.; but it rarely happens that a person who seeks a pecuninry ciunpensatiou for an injury would apply for redress to the servant when the master is liable.—[ilagazine of Domestic Econovn/.) DOSE. If of any medicine the dose for an adult, or person aged twenty-one vears, be 1 oz. or 1 drachm, then of that medicine for an in- fant seven weeks old the dose would be one- filtei^uth of an ounce or of a drachm, as the case may be. If for a child seven years old, then i oz. or -h drachm, and so varying for different ages as specified ia the following table:—. Ages. Coniii'on (lose, a ciraclitn Proporiionate dose. Weeks 7 one-firieenth of a draclini, or i grains Moutlis 7 14 28 one twflfih .... niip-eif,'luii .... 5 grains 7.J giains 12 grains Years 3^ 5 7 14 21 63 77 100 one-fourth .... two-tliirds .... coiiiriion ilose eleveii-iwelllLs . five-sixilis .... lour-sixilis .... 15 grains 1 scruple J draciim 2 scruples 1 draciim 55 grains 50 giains 40 grains DOTTERELS. They are to be roasted the same as Ortolans. DOUGH. S^e Bread. DOUGH NUTS. Boilaquartof new milk,, and melt in it i lb. of butter ; beat three eggs with 2 lbs. of sugar, and pour on them the boil- ing milk, stirring all the time. When it is nearly cold stir in a tea-cupful of yeast, a spoonful of salt, and Hour enough to make a stiff batter. When it is quite light knead in flour to make a soft dough, two grated nutmegs, and a little mace ; let it rise again till it is very light, roll it out thin, cut it in shapes, and fry them in hot; lard; dust over ciiniamou and loaf sugar, pounded finely, while they are hot. DOUGH NUTS. COMiMON. Pour a pint of boiling water into a pint of new milk, and put in ^ lb. of lard and a table-sjDoonful of salt ; stir in a tea-cupful of yeast, and enough flour to make a stiff batter; let it rise, and when very light put in 2 lbs. of light brown sugar, two nutmegs, and enough flour to make a soft dough; work it well, and let it rise again till it is very light; roll it out, and fry as other dough nuts. See American Dough Nuts. DOUGH NUTS, RAISED. Boil a quart of milk, and rub smoothly in a little cold milk a gill of ground rice. When the milk boils add the rice, with a tea-spoonful of salt. Allow it to boil until quite thick, stirring it so that it shall not burn. When cool add a cup of good yeast, and thicken it about as stiff as for good bread; knead it well, let the dough rise over- night, and when light add I lb. of butter, five eggs, 1 lb. of sugar, or a pint of molasses, add- ing nutmeg, lemon peel, or any other sjjice. Any light dough can be easily made into dough nuts by the addition of sugar, butter, and spice. An egg or two prevent the cakes from soaking much lat.