BRE BRA [ 153 ] mary, in 2 gallons of water, with 4 ozs. of salt in it, for half an hour. Strain, and let it get cold. BRAZIL NUTS. These are the produce of a tree, native of Guiana, Brazil, and other parts of South America, called Caryocar tomentosum. They are not so soft and oily as the suwarrow, or butter nuts, which are the fruit of the Caryocar nuciferum. BRAZIL WOOD. This, produced by one or more species of Casalpinia, is used in the manufacture of various red dyes and red ink. See Dyeing and Ink. BREAD. We shall, in the first instance, confine our attention to the making of this from wheat-flour, and shall next give some notes relative to other vegetable products which have been used either as additions to or as substitutes for that flour. The process of making bread has been well detailed and explained in the " Magazine of Domestic Economy " as follows : —The bread used in this country is principally made from wheat-flour, and this bread is much more nutritious than that made fi'om any other grain. The flour of wheat consists principally of two ingredients: the one starch, the other gluten, there being in the best about 77 parts of starch and 20 parts of gluten in every 100 parts of the flour. Gluten, which contains ni- trogen, is found to be much more nutritious than starch, which contains very little, if any, of this elementary substance. Wheat-flour contains much more gluten than that got from any other grain. In the flour of the best wheat that is grown in this country gluten constitutes from 18 per cent, to 24 per cent.; in that of oats, only 6 per cent.; in that ! of barley, only 6 per cent.; in that of rye^ only 5 per cent.; in that of peas, only 4 per cent. Thus, then, wheat-flour contains three or four times as much gluten as that of any other grain ; and it is consequently very much more nutritious. But, according to the climate in which wheat is grown, the favourable or unfavourable nature of the season, the greater or less degree of cultiva- tion bestowed upon the soil it grows in, &c., does wheat contain more or contain less gluten. It is to this substance that dough owes its viscidity or tenacity, and it is necessarily more tenacious the more gluten the flour it is made from con- tains. Hence in the manufacture of vermicelli : and macaroni, it is necessary that the wheat , used should contain a very large quantity of i gluten ; and this is found to be especially the i case with a peculiarly hard kind of wheat, the i best sorts of which grow in certain parts of the South of Europe. It is, then, the gluten which is the more nourishing of the two ingredients of wheaten flour, and which gives the extremely viscid character to its dough. It therefore happens that the best flour—that which contains the most gluten—always makes the lightest bread, by preventing, in some degree, the escape of the products of the fermentation to which most of the bread that is eaten in the present day is subjected before it is baked. The process of baking bread consists in mix- ing wheat-flour with water, and forming it into dough. The average proportion is 2 parts of water to 3 parts of flour by weight. But this proportion varies considerably, according to the age and quality of the flour. In general, the older and the better the flour is, the greater is the quantity of water required. If the dough, after being thus formed, be allowed to remain for some time, the sugar undergoes a fermenta- tion, being decomposed into carbonic acid and alcohol. The gluten which exists in every part of this dough prevents the carbonic acid gas fi'om escaping. It therefore heaves up the dough in every part, and more than doubles its bulk. The fermentation, however, does not stop when the sugar is decomposed ; it continues to act upon the alcohol, and gradually converts it into acetic and lactic acids. The consequence of this last action, which cannot be prevented on account of the slowness of the vinous fermentation of the dough, is, that it acquires a sour taste and smell; and if it be baked in the oven, though the loaf is full of eyes, and possesses the characters of loaf bread, yet its acid taste and smell render it disagreeable to the palate, and unfit for the pur- poses of food. Dough that has been allowed to ferment in this way is called leaven. But if a small quantity of this leaven be mixed with new- made dough, and the mixture laid aside for a few hours, fermentation commences and goes on much more rapidly, so that the dough swells to at least twice its original bulk. If it be now put into the oven and baked, the fermentation is checked before any acid begins to be formed, and the bread is full of eyes, light, spongy, and sweet. The ancient Gauls and Spaniards, as we are informed by Pliny, contrived another method of bringing on a fermentation in dough. Instead of leaven they added to the dough a quantity of the yeast or barm which collects on the sur- face of fermenting beer. This addition occasions fully as speedy a fermentation as leaven, and it is not nearly so apt to give the bread a sour flavour. I About the end of the seventeenth cen- tury the bakers of Paris began to substitute yeast for leaven. The practice was discovered and exclaimed against. The faculty of medicine, in 1688, declared it prejudicial to the health; and many years elapsed before the bakers were able to convince the public that bread raised by means of yeast is better than that fermented by