F 0 W [ ; 632 ] FO W take tho bones off from the back, break those of t!ie legs, cut the breast off, flatten the fowl with the back of your knife, and season it with salt and pepper; then dip it in clarified butter, and next into bread crumbs, equally on all sides; next broil it up to a fine colour on a slow fire, that it may be thoroughly done. Send it up with a brown gravy Ilalienne. Thrust your knife into it to ascertain if it is well done : it requires an hour, or at least three quarters, to be done properly. FOWL, WILD. The flavour of wildfowls is preserved better by not stuffing them Put into each pepper, salt, and a piece of batter. Wild fowls do not require so much dressing as tame. They should be done of a nice colour, and nicely frothed. A rich brown gravy should be served in the dish, and when the breast is cut into slices before it is taken from the bone it will be much improved by a squeeze of lemon, some salt, and pepper. If you wish to take off the fishy smell which these birds frequently have, put an onion, salt, and hot water into the dripping-pan, and for the first ten minutes baste them with this ; then remove the pan, and keep constantly basting with butter. FOWL, WILD: To Tkuss. Cut off each pinion at the first joint, slit the bird between the vent and rump, then draw it, wipe it out clean, cut off the claws, and enter the skewer into one of the pinions; return the leg back, pass the skewer through that and the body, meeting the other leg and pinion on the opposite side, cut the vent, and put the rump through it. FOWL, WILD, PIE. The fowl should be trussed like a duck for a pie, or for anything else, larded with anchovies, seasoned with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs. Put a good quantity of butter into the pie, and finish the same as all others. FOWLS : To Boil in a Poelee. Cut into large dice 2 lbs. of lean veal, 2 lbs. of fat bacon cured without saltpetre, two large carrots, and two onions, and add -J lb. of fresh but- ter ; put the whole into a stewpan, and stir it with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire until the veal is very white and the bacon partially melted; then pour in three pints of clear boiling bi'oth or water, throw in four cloves, a small bunch or two of thyme and parsley, a bay leaf, and a few corns of white pepper; boil these gently for an hour and a half, strain the poelee through a fine sieve, and set it by in a cool place. FOWLS: To Bone fob Fricassees, Cureies, AND Pies. First carve them entirely into joints, then remove the bones, beginning with the legs and wings at the head of the largest bone ; hold this with the fingers, and work the knife in the meat of the leg without breaking the skin. The remainder of the birds is too easily done to re- quire any instructions. FOWLS: To Choose. When cocks are young their spurs are short. Take care that yon are not deceived by their having been cut or pared, a trick that is often practised. If fresh their vents will be close and dark. Hens are best just before they begin to lay, and are yet full of eggs. If they ai'e old their combs and legs are rough. All poultry should be carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with paper. The cook should be careful in drawing poultry of all sorts not to break the gall-bag, for no wash- ing will take off the bitterness from that which it has touched. If for roasting black-legged fowls are the most moist. A good-sized fowl will take from three quarters of an hour to an hour in roasting, a middling-sized one or chicken twenty minutes. Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. All sorts should be continually basted, that they may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine colour. The fire must be very quick and clear before any fowls are put down. Serve with egg sauce, bread sauce, or garnished with sausages or scalded parsley. A large barndoor fowl well hung should be stuffed in the crop with sausage meat, and served with gravy in the dish, and with bread sauce. The head should be turned under the wing like a turkey. For boiling choose those that are not black- legged ; pick them carefully, singe, wash, and truss them; then flour them, and put them in boiling water. A good-sized one will be done in half an hour. Serve with parsley and butter, oyster, lemon, liver, or celery sauce. If for diniier, ham, tongue, or bacon is commonly served with them. FOWLS : To Truss. Remove immediately the crops of fowls, but do not draw and truss them till wanted for dressing, else they are apt to dry. For drawing fowls make a slit with a sharp knife, at which slip in the fingers, get fast hold of the gizzard, and draw it carefully forward with the intestines ; but if the liver remains again slip in the fingers, and take out the heart, which will bring the liver with it. Be care- ful not to break the gall-bladder, else it will cause a bitterness which no washing can remove. Having thus cleared the inside of a fowl, select such of the internal parts as are to be used, remove the gall-bladder from the liver, slit the narrow side of the gizzard, and turning it inside out remove the hard bag, and turn round the gizzard, but do not cut the skin by which it is