CHA [ 262 J CH A these four crus, which are so much esteemed as aperitives, and ordered for diseases of the blad- der. They are bottled at the end of the year, after the vintage. Wines of the same name are made in the vineyards of Ai/, Piernj, Mareuil, and Sillery; but this Ptysanne has more body and spirit, is drank iced like the wines of Sillery, and is in high estimation. White Wines of the Third and Fourth Quality. The sloping hills well exposed to the sun, with good plants and carefully cultivated, generally produce very good wine. The others are of an inferior quality, and must be reckoned in the fifth quality. White Wines of the Fifth Quality, Chouilly, Montlielon, Gmuves, Mancy, Molins, Maugrimaud, near Epernay ; Beaumont, Villers- aux-Noeucs, near Rheims, produce wines light and agreeable, but weak, which only last a year. When the season is very hot the best are used in the preparation of sparkling wines of the third class, by adding about a tenth of vin de taille d'Ay or Mareuil: giving them body makes them keep better. The environs of Ancerville, Vitry-sur- Marne, and Sezanne, produce wines small, dry, and without flavour, which will not keep, and are all consumed in the country. The principal commerce of Champagne wines is made at Rheims, Anise, and Epernay. The last town is advantageously placed in the midst of the vine- yards, on soil favourable for good cellars ; they are hollowed in a limestone rock, are large, and well calculated for the keeping of wine. Those of M. Moet are particularly remarkable for their extent; they form a kind of labyrinth which requires a guide; the walls are covered to the height of six feet with bottles regularly arranged (400,000 bottles). Few travellers pass without visiting them, and even sovereigns have had the curiosity of going to see them. DE LA HAUTE-MARNE. Red Wines of the First Quality. Au- bigny, a canton of Prauthoy, five leagues from Langres, produces wines of a light red colour, much delicacy, and a very pleasant bouquet. Mont Sangeon, five leagues from Langres: its wines keep well, and only differ from the pre- ceding in a little less delicacy. Red Wines of the Second Quality. Vaux, Riviere-les-Fosses, Prautay, and many other communes, make wines of good quality. The vineyards of Joinville, four leagues from Vassy, St, Urbin, and some slopes of the vineyards of Chdteau-Vilain, of Creancy, and Essey les-Ponts, in the district of Chaumont, furnish a small quantity of wines, light and agreeable, but which have neither the value nor bouquet of those of the first class. The environs of St. Dizier produce a gi-eat quantity of small wines. The proprietors are accused of increasing their colout by black wines and elderberries, and archil, called brinbelles. de l'aube. The vine occupies 30,000 hectares of land, and produces, on an average, 617,000 hec- toliti'es, half of which is consumed in tho country. The plants generally cultivated are, Le Pineau, red and white ; Le Fromenteau, violet and white ; Le Gouais, and Le Gamine. Red Wines of the First Quality. Les Riceys, composed of three hamlets, all situate in a narrow valley three leagues from Bar-sur- Seine, are surrounded by slopes which produce very good wines. The vineyards of the three are of equal reputation. The \dnes are brisk, very spirituous, and well flavoured, -with a nice bouquet and much aroma; they require to ba kept two years in cask to arrive at maturity. The best slopes are La Foret, Les Roties, Tronchoit, Boudier, Rotier, Foiseid, and Chenepestor. Bo- luot-sur-Laigne, near the Riceys, produces simi- lar wines, amongst which those of the side called Vaux are the best. Avirey and Bagneux-la-Fosse, in the same canton, produce wines which ap- proach near to those of Riceys. The most cele- brated vineyard is called Yal des Riceys, at Avi- rey. The wines from these vineyards are gene- rally sent into Flanders, Picardy, and Normiandy. Red Wines of the Second Quality. Bar- sur-Aube, Bar-sur-Seine, Bouilly, Laine-aux-Bois, aniJavernau, produce vins ordinaires, very plea- sant, but unfit for exportation, Gye, Neuville, and LandreviUe, district of Bar-sur-Seine, pro- duce a great quantity of common and coarse wines, of a deep colour, and bearing exportation. On the side called Gravilliers, at Neuville, the plant Pineau is cultivated, and produces wines little inferior to those of the Riceys. Ville- naxe, near Nogent-sur-Seine, is surrounded by large vineyards, which produce much common wine. White Wines. Riceys, already cited for red ^\'ine, produces white much esteemed, lively, sparkling, very spirituous, and well flavoured. Bar-sur-Aube: the wines in this district are good, though with little spirit, and keep well. Rigny-le-Teron, district of Troyes, produces small white wines, tolerably good, and bearing ex- portation. CHAMPOOING is a rubbing and pressing of the muscles to remove rheumatic and other pains from them. Those who frequent Brighton know this process as conducted at Mahomed's Baths. The following description of the mode adopted by the savages of the Tonga Islands shows the origin of this treatment. If, during the day, a chief or other person of I'ank feels fatigued with walking or any other exercise, ha