CAB CAE C 195 ] Our details are from experience during Indian voyages in sailing ships, but they are equally applicable for voyages to New Zealand and Australia. The poop-cabins are considered to be the best. They are those of which the flooring is on a level with the quarter-deck, and they are usually fitted up more elegantly than the others. Of these the most desirable are the two stern- cabins, for they have windows which rarely re- quire to be closed, even in the stormiest weather. They are the most fashionable, and, in addition to the advantage of elevation, insuring a some- what freer circulation of air, they are kept more out of the reach of the waves which break against the sides of the ship. In the largest class vessels on the outward- bound voyage, when they are usually very lightly freighted, the two stern-cabins on the gun-deck are the most comfortable. On the homeward- bound voyage it is different, for then, the vessel being generally deeply laden, the windows of the lower stern-cabins are brought so near to the waves that the dead lights are necessarily put in during all rough weather. They are the largest, coolest, and most quiet; their superior coolness to those above them is caused by the latter protecting them from the direct rays of the sun; and their greater quietude arises from their having, like those above, no thoroughfare past them; and also because the upper cabins, I having for their ceiling the floor of the poop, which is the chief promenade of the ship, are liable to constant noise from the feet of the i walkers ; and when it is scoured with the holy- stone the noise is stunning. Of the side cabins on the gun-deck those nearest to the stern are to be preferred; for although the passengers in those about mid- ships are somewhat less sensible of the vessel's pitching, yet they are very much more incom- \ moded by the noise of the crew, the stench of the animals, &c. Besides, it is the ship's heel- I ing over before a side wind that is generally far more inconvenient than the pitching. As to the preference to be given to the starboard or larboard sides of the ship, the wind, in the out- ward passage, is mostly on the latter until the Cape is past, after which it is chiefly on the starboard side; consequently, it is wise to select the latter, for it will be found, towards the end j of the voyage, that every possible means of ' keeping the passengers cool is desirable. When expense is a secondary consideration for a married couple two cabins are very much to be preferred. In an outward voyage choose the two stem-cabins on the gun-deck; and during the homeward passage one of the stem and one of the awning-cabins on the upper deck, one to be fitted up as abedrootu, the other as a parlour. The cabin being secured the next point is how to fit it up. For a single man a swing cot or a sofa is the first necessary; we recommend the former, because it accomodates itself to all positions of the ship, whereas on a sofa the sleeper will often awake in the morning, if it be placed as it should be—athwart ships—with his legs far above the level of his head, and, consequently, with the latter aching. A cabin chair, lamp, looking-glass, swing-tray, foot-bath, and washhand stand, are all that he will abso- lutely require, for the lid of the latter, when closed, will serve for a table. The floor should be covered entirely with oil cloth; it is much more cleanly than carpet, much cooler, and is not so slippery or difficult to walk upon. A sofa is a very great comfort, as is a chest of drawers; and the latter, so con- structed as to divide into two, will travel on land as conveniently as two trunks. A table, constructed so as to serve as a desk when de- sired, and fitted up accordingly, is also extremely useful. If a married couple occupy a cabin we re- commend two swing cots as well as a sofa; for a cot is not difficult to get into, and is incom- parably the most comfortable place of rest. Two cots swing very readily in the stern cabins. A book-shelf or shelves, in proportion to the number of books, should be screwed up athwart the ship, for a vessel never pitches sufficiently to dislodge a book so placed; whereas, if the shelves are parallel to the ship's length, every time she heels over, so that the books are on the more elevated side, they will fall from their places, unless secured in a way which renders reference to them difficult. A sofa should be fixed athwart the ship, for it is veiy easy to lie with the head at whichever end is highest. If it be placed fore and aft, that is, lengthways of the ship, the sleeper will be rolled on to the floor when the sofa is on the elevated side, or must be secured by a sideboard, which greatly increases the warmth of his rest ing-place. The importance of avoiding even this slight increase of temperature cannot be conceived by those who have not been becalmed in the vicinity of the equator. A cot is always slung from hooks fixed into the Jbeams of the cabin fore and aft. It must be remembered always to have the lashings as short as possible, for the longer these are, the more freely the cot swings to and fro. If economy be an object do not employ an outfitting warehouseman more than is absolutely necessary, either to supply your wardrobe or to furnish your cabin. For the latter purpose, devote a day to going to the East India Docks, while the ship is lying there, and you will find nimierous little upholsterers who live chiefly