DEA [ 4C7 ] DEA occupations; from six to seven hours to the Various purposes of dressing, taking provisions, exei'cise, or amusements; and also from six to seven or eight liours to repose, accordingly as they have been more or less fatigued the pre- ceding day either by mental or bodily exertions. Such would be both a natural and judicious arrangement of the day; and we make no doubt that those who are disposed to devote their time and labour to the welfare of the community will neither have reason to complain that the days are too long, nor the nights too short, for useful purposes. See Bedtime. DEADLY NIGHTSHADE. See Bella- donna. DEAFNESS is frequently the effect of old age, and is incident to most persons in the decline of life. It is, however, sometimes owing to an original defect in the organic structure of the ear, in which case the unhappy individual not only continues deaf, but frequently also speechless. This complaint may, indeed, arise from a variety of causes, such as injuries sustained by the ear from wounds, ulcers, excessive noise, violent colds in the head, fevers, hard wax ad- hering to the cavity of the ear, or too great a degree of either moisture or dryness in that organ. When it is the effect of old age or of wounds and ulcers in the ears it is not easily remedied. If it proceeds from a catarrh affect- ing the head, especially after cold bathing, the patient must be careful to preserve that part constantly warm, particularly during the night. He should likewise take some gentle laxatives, keep his feet warm, and bathe them frequently in tepid or lukewarm water at bedtime. Mer- curial frictions have in this case been a,pp]ied with success ; but if the complaint originates from fevers it will generally disappear when the patient recovers his health; or, if it arisea^ from dry wax clogging the ears, this may be softened by dropping a little sweet oil, or oil of rosemary, into them, after which they should be syringed with warm milk and water. If deafness bp occasioned by too great a dry- ness in the ears, which may be easily ascer- tained by inspecting them, \ oz. of the oil of sweet almonds, and the same quantity of cam- phorated spirit of wine or tincture of asafcetida, may be mixed together, and a few drops poured into the ear every night previously to going to bed, care being taken to close them afterwards with a little wool or cotton. When the ears abound with moisture the superfluous humour may be drained by an issue or seton, which should be made as near as possible to the part affected. Where a powerful stimulant becomes abso- lutely necessary camphorated oil, with the addi- tion of a few drops of volatile alkaline spirit, may be considered as one of the most powerful applications. It will be proper in such case to begin with a very small quantity of the alkali, and to increase it progressively as the ear is enabled to bear it. In several instances where the disease depended on a state of insensibility in the nerves both the shower bath and elec- tricity have been successfully resorted to. Ex- perience recommends a few drops of onion juice on cotton to be worn in the ear for several weeks, and daily renewed. Deaf persons ought to expire forcibly, with their mouth and nose closely stopped—a simple but rational expedient, which ought to be frequently repeated, though it has sometimes afforded instant relief. These various remedies, however, should be judiciously adapted to different states of the disorder, for, though real benefit has occasionally been derived from them, yet they also often faii, and not unfrequently are productive of injury. The organs of hearing, as well as those of sight, being extremely tender, require the most cautious treatment, and ought not on any account to be tampered with, nor submitted to the experiments of ignorant pretenders. Hence, instead of having recourse to nostrums, we recommend those persons who are afflicted with deafness to. keep the head warm. From whatever cause the disorder may originate this will always be found the safest and most proper practice, and more real benefit has often been derived from it in the most obstinate cases than from any raedicines what- ever. Deafness is often occasioned by a long-con- tinued disordered state of the stomach, and is then often accompanied by an excessive accu- mulation of mucus in the throat. Attention to diet and medicine for restoring the healthy action of the stomach are remedial in this case. {See Acidity of the Stomach.) Bicarbonate of potash, ten grains in a little water, after each meal, has been greatly beneficial in cases of (Jeafness arising from such acidity. DEATH- The cases in which death can be clearly ascertained are nearly the following :— 1. When putrefaction has actually taken place over the whol« animal frame, as instances are common in which a partial mortification of an arm or a leg is by no means mortal. 2. In the nervous apoplexy of the aged, as such persons generally die in consequence of slowly wasting disorders, various species of palsy, &c. 3. If the patient expires after a long-stand- ing consumption, hectic fever, or ulcerations of the breast and lungs, diseases now very common. 4. If any of the larger blood-vessels or other parts essential to life have received external