BUT BUT [ 190 ] Broomsgrove in order that he might conceal the process from the prying eye of his manu- facturing contemporaries ; but as he soldered iron shanks to the back of his covered buttons, it -was some time before the public became reconciled to them, from the general dislike to that form of shank. On the expiration of his patent, in 1828, Mr. Sanders cut away the iron shank, and substituted the present flexible or woven shank, for which he attempted to establish a patent; but the objections against it were so strong that it was refused, as the flexible shank, made of catgut, had been in use fifty years pre- ceding, the manufacturers of the gilt buttons having applied it. The rejection of this patent had the effect of opening the trade to the town of Birmingham, which has since become so im- portant, not only from the number of hands it employs, but also from the almost constant demand which it creates for ingeniously con- structed machinery. The material of which buttons are made is somewhat various, which gives rise to a sub- division of labour resembling other branches of manufacture. There is the well-known gilt button, plain and figured ; there are plated, silk, Florentine, and other covered buttons; pearl, horn, shell, bone, wood, glass, and porce- lain buttons. Most of these are made at Bir- mingham. We shall briefly describe the process of making a gilt button. The metal is a com- pound of copper, &c., rolled out to certain dimensions, and cut into blanks by the screw- press. Females generally, almost universally, perform this operation. Take, for instance, what is called a shell button, which is hollow, and made of two pieces of metal, one for the front and the other for the back. The button requires two blanks, one called the shell and the other the bottom. The shell is pressed to a convex shape by a machine similar in prin- ciple to the punching-press, but having a curved, polished surface to act upon the metal instead of a punch. The blanks, as they come from the punching-press, have a rawness of edge which re- quires to be smoothed to fit them for their after- appearance. This is done by turning them in a lathe. In order to bring the two parts of a shell button together they are subjected to the action of a die and punch, so peculiarly ad- justed that the edge of the shell becomes bent over and lapped down upon the bottom, securing the two together in'a way at once firm and neat, without the employment of any agent whatever. The surface of the button has sometimes a device upon it, which is produced by means of a die worked by the foot. The man places a button on the lower die, raises a heavy weight, to the lower part of which the upper die is attached, and allows it to fall with great force, by which the button becomes indented with the figure of the die. The shanking is rather a singular process. The shank is not made upon the pre- mises, being a distinct occupation; the machinery to twist that simple bit of wire is very expensive, therefore must be worked on a great scale to become profitable; so that one shank-twister supplies several button-makers. The shanks are made of brass wire, and vary from eight to forty gross per pound weight. The blank, or body of the button, being ready to receive the shank, a woman takes up the latter, and places it in the proper position on the button; at the same time she takes up a little piece of bent iron, capable of acting as a spring-clasp, which holds the shank tightly to the button; she then puts a piece of solder at the foot of the shank, which, when finished, is placed on an iron plate, and exposed to a heat in the furnace sufficient to melt the solder, and unite the shank firmly to the button. This process is performed with great celerity. The mode of silvering is as follows : The but- tons, after being thoroughly cleansed in an acid solution, are put into an earthen pan containing a dry mixture of silver, common salt, cream of tartar, and other trifling ingredients. The but- tons are well worked up with this mixture, and in the course of a minute or two the whole are coated with a clear and equable surface of silver. The gilding is rather complicated. It is neces- sary, also, to observe the distinction between yellow and orange gilding, the former being affected in colour by the previous use of a mixture called similor, made of zinc and mer- cury. Take an orange all-over, for example. When properly cleaned, they are placed in an earthen pan with quick-water and gold amal- gam, which chemically act upon each other. The gold is mixed up into a kind of paste with mercury, which, however, will not act upon the button unless a thin film of mercury be pre- viously deposited on the surface, and the quick- water, or gilder's aquafortis, a solution of nitrate of mercuiy, is used for that purpose. When mixed together in a pan, a chemical action is produced between the copper of the button and the mercury of the quick-water, and the required result ensues. The next object is to get rid of the mercury, which is effected by placing the buttons in an oven, and subjecting them to a strong heat, which causes the mercury to evapo- rate ; a careful arrangement of flues being adopted to carry the latter to condensing cham- bers, where it resumes its metallic form. Then succeeds the burnishing process, which is effected by placing each button upon a lathe, when the workman applies to it a blood-stone, which pro- duces a brilliant surface in a few seconds. We are indebted, in a great measure, to the Messrs. Elliott & Son for the preceding details, having