[ 151 ] BRA BRA 1 gallon, because tbe tliird infusion is made with stronger spirits than the former. Sweeten with sugar, and use cinnamon and cloves as in the other, or a little more if needful. As the liquor pressed from the cherries, after being thrice infused, will be thicker than the other, you may add a little brandy to it, and sweeten with sugar and spice as before directed, and after it has stood a few days to settle it will become clear. BRANDY CREAM. Take 24 sweet almonds and 3 bitter almonds, all blanched and pounded; boil them in a little milk. When cold add to it the yolks of 5 eggs, well beaten in a little cream; sweeten and put to it 2 glasses of the best brandy, and, when well mixed, add 1 quart of thin cream. Set it over the fire, but do not let it boil; stir one way till it thickens, then pour it into glasses. When cold it will be ready. If you wish it to keep scald the cream pre- viously. A ratafia drop may be added. BRANDY, LEMON. Take 8 fine lemons having a clear unspotted skin and rough surface ; pare the rind off very thin, divide it into small shreds, put it into a bottle ; add 1 pint of spirits of wine—12 blanched and bruised bitter almonds are a judicious addition—cork the bottle, and let it stand six days. Make a syrup of 1 lb. of treble- refined sugar; bring it to the boil; let it cool; pour it into the bottle; shake the whole well; let it stand six days more; filter through blot- ting-paper; and the cordial is made. So pre- pared, it is perfectly clear, and of a fine, delicate lemon colour. It will be ready for drinking in a few weeks, but will be much better for being kept longer. BRANDY POSSET. Boil 1 quart of cream, with a stick of cinnamon in it, over a slow fire, and take it off to cool. Beat up the yolks of 6 eggs, mix the same with the cream, add some nutmeg and sugar to your taste, set it over a slow fire, and stir it all one way. When it appears like a fine custard take it off, and pour it into a basin with a glass of brandy; stir it gently, and sen'e it up. BRANDY PUDDING. Line a mould with stoned raisins or dried cherries, then lay thin slices of French roll; next put a layer of ratafias or macaroons, then the fruit, rolls, and cakes in succession until the mould is full, pouring in at times 2 glasses of brandy. Beat 4 eggs, yolks and whites separately, put to them I pint of milk or cream, lightly sweetened, and the rind of half a grated lemon; pour it into the mould, and when the solid has imbibed it all, flour a cloth, tie it tight over, and boil an hour. Keep the mould the right side upwards. BRANDY, RASPBERRY. This is made nearly in the same way as Cheery Brandy, and drawn off with about an equal quantity of brandy, with the different infusions of cherries. But first make it of a light red colour, and omit the cinnamon and cloves at the first, but not in the second and third infusions. To colour the last two some cherry brandy must be added according to taste. BRANDY TO THE FEET. The custom of pouring brandy or any spirit into the boots or shoes when the feet have got wet, with a view to prevent the effects of cold, is a practice which, though veiy common, is founded in pre- judice and misconception, and often proves fatal by bringing on inflammation and consequent obstruction in the bowels. This practice is adopted upon the supposition that, because spirits, when swallowed, excite a universal warmth and restore the circulation in the ex- tremities, they must do the same when applied to the extremities themselves. But the reverse happens. Fluids when evaporating produce cold; and the lighter or more spirituous the fluid, the more quickly it evaporates, and the greater is the degree of cold generated. This maybe proved by a very simple experiment. If one hand be wetted with spirit and the other with water, and both are held up to dry in the air, the hand wetted with spirit will feel in- finitely colder than the other; or if the bulbs of two thermometers be so treated, the mercury will be observed to fall much more rapidly and extensively in the one case than in the other. Whatever danger, therefore, arises from cold or damp feet, it is generally enhanced by the practice alluded to. If such a remedy is to be at all employed, it ought, undoubtedly, to be taken into the stomach. The brandy, though so dangerous when poured into the shoes, is an excellent preventive when used properly, that is, taking off the stockings and rubbing a small portion upon the feet, and putting on a pair of dry stockings and shoes : it then has the very reverse effect, proving a stimulant and prevention of cold. BRANK. See Buckwheat. BRASS is one of the many alloys of copper that are used for making articles of daily use. Three parts of copper and one of calamine, or native carbonate of zinc, constitute brass; five or six of copper and one of zinc, form pinchbeck. Tombac has still more copper, and is of a deeper red than pinchbeck. Prince's metal is a similar compound, excepting that it contains more zinc than either of the former. A mixture of tin and copper with zinc forms bronze. Bell metal is also formed of about three parts copper and one of tin. In order to make brass the calamine is previously roasted ; it is then mixed with charcoal and grain copper, and put into larse crucibles, which are kept for a considerable time in a heat that will not melt the copper; after