[ 646 3 GAS GAS and there can be no doubt tbat many of those fires, otherwise unaccountable, which have plunged whole families into sudden distress and ruin, have originated in the neglected snuff or suddenly emitted spark from a tallow candle. Against all accidents of this kind gas affords the most perfect and infallible security. A gas light of the most vivid and brilliant description might be left to burn for hours over an open barrel of gunpowder with the most perfect safety, as no light of that de- scription can ever emit a spark. The only possible danger to be apprehended from the use of gas arises from its escaping from the pipes, through leakage, in sufficient quantities to form an explosive mixture. This would, perhaps, prove an insupei-able objection to its employ- ment in a community destitute at once of com- mon sense and of the organ of smelling. To those who are not suffering under this double deprivation no danger can possibly arise, as, in the event of any imperfection in the pipes, the peculiar odour of the gas, which, however dis- agreeable, no improvements in its manufacture have fortunately yet been able wholly to destroy, ■will warn the sense of smelling of the escape long before it has been combined with tlae atmospheric air in sufficient quantities to form an explosive mixture. An escape of gas to the extent of is^th part of the atmospheric air is distinctly and immediately perceptible by the smell; but this quantity must be increased 2000 times before an explosion could take place. The remedy is simple, and one would almost call it instinctive. Open the doors and windows of the apartment in which the odour occurs, and take no light near the place until the smell has gone off: no explosion can by any possibility take place if these simple precautions ai'Q attended to. The superior cleanliness attend- ing the use of gas will form no unimportant advantage in the estimation of those who rightly appreciate the ideas presented to English under- standings under those untranslatable and almost indefinable words, neatness and comfort, omit- ting altogether the minor, though not less important, details of the decrease of labour and increase of cleanliness in all establish- ments where this light has been introduced. Gas may fearlessly plead not guilty to the charge of destroying the beauty of a lady's dress, of damaging a gentleman's coat, or irretrievably injuring a valuable book or print. Gas yields a light of any required intensity, and preserves its splendour unimpaired for an indefinite time. It is susceptible of instan- taneous increase or diminution by simply turn- ing a stop-cock, a quality of the greatest im- portance in many situations, but especially in the bedroom or sick chamber. It can be in an instant increased, from a flame not exceeding in brilliancy that of a rushlight, to one capable of giving a full light to a large apartment; and the same flame will, in cases of emergency, raise, in ten minutes, two quarts of water to a boiling temperature. It has been objected that gas blackens the ceilings, soils the goods, and creates an un- pleasant odour in the apartment in which it is used. These objections may be all obviated by using proper burners, not burning the flame too high, never using an Argand burner without a straight chimney, and the flame should not reach within one-third of the top of the glass. If these instructions are complied with you get a- perfect combustion, and at the same time use the gas with economy. Another objection some- times raised against the introduction of gas into private rooms is the heat it produces. This is frequently occasioned by the use of improper burners, or too many in number for the size of the room, and not unfrequently the improper arrangement or situation of the lights. The same objections may be brought against any mode of lighting. If oil or wax is used, and you have the same profusion of light as from gas, the heat will be in proportion. In addition to the advice given above, all rooms inhabited for any length of time should he ventilated, let the system of lighting be tvhat it may. Happily for us the importance of this subject is now beginning to be appreciated. In living rooms Dr. Aruott's valve in tbe chimney is the simplest, and an efficacious method of ventila- tion. To no class of buildings will this remark applj' with greater force than ball-rooms, theatres, lecture-rooms, churches, chapels, and hospitals, where great numbers of persons are frequently packed together. Gas may be made an impor- tant agent in the ventilation of large buildings, effecting the compulsory withdrawal of vitiated air by producing a powerful rarefaction in the lower end of an upright shaft. Mr. Sharp has paid considerable attention to this subject, and some years back successfully ventilated several large buildings, plans of which he has by him, and will show them to parties who are seeking information on this subject. GASTRITIS, or Inflammation of thr Stomach. Inflammation of the stomach is of two kinds. The one we purpose to speak of is that arising from contact with acrid substances, such as arsenic, oxj^muriate of mercury, oxalic and mineral acid, &c., taken into the organ. It may also be occasioned by food of an impi'oper nature, spirituous liquors, taking large draughts of cold liquids when the body is much heated by exercise, such as dancing, running, &c.; also by external violence, from blows, wounds, &o.; by gout and eruptions being thrown in upon it.