FLO [ 513 ] FLU of the sheets, and the five petals and the calj'x cut from them. Take one of the pieces of wire, being careful that it resembles in size tlie stalk of the primrose; dip it in green melted wax, and when cool fix on the top, by the pressure of the thumb and finger, fine thread- like strips of dark yellow wax, to I'epresent the stamens. These being firmly fixed, fasten on one of the petals in the same manner by pressure; then a third, fourth, and fifth, putting them regularly round, and bending them out- wards. This done, put the calyx in the palm of the hand for a short time, that it may become pliant; then form it to its natural shape round one of the little rods, and thus prepare it to be slipped on at the lower end of the stalk of the flower. When it is properly placed press it tightly against the stem, and the whole will firmly adhere together. A few touches of darker yellow will be required near the centi'e of the petals ; these may be given in oil colours, or in water colours mixed with ox-gall. The root- leaves are generally made of cambric, and may le purchased with the wax, or at the artificial flower maker's, being afterwards dipped in a little warm wax to improve their appearance. Several other flowers are made with nearly the same facility, such as the snowdrop, the violet, the heartsease, the hyacinth, the pink, &c. When the petals are hollow, as in the tulip, crocus, or ranunculus, the wax is warmed in the hand till it is quite pliable, and the central part is gently rolled with the sealing-wax end of the pin. This expands the wax, and forms it in the hollow of the hand to the required shape. Sometimes the petals are wrinkled and rough, as in the gum cistus, the red poppy, &c.; and in order to imitate this appearance the wax is well rolled, so as to make it thin and warm, and then crumpled up by the hand. ]f this is cleverly done the wax petals, on being opened, will very nearly and beautifully resemble the peculiar appearance of the part it is intended to represent. Flowers whose lints are delicately blended with each other (an only be imitated by forming the petals of white wax, and then tinting them with powder colours put on with a short-haired brush. In this way all striped or variegated flowers may le represented. The best way of making a convolvulus is to pour some plaster of Paris carefully into a natural flower, and thus get an exact mould on which to form the waxen copy. A piece of wax is then cut out the size and shape of the flower (which has been cut open and flattened), and formed carefully round the mould, uniting the edges very carefully at a part of the blossom where the join will be hidden by one of the coloured rays which adorn the inside of that lovely flower. It is necessary to be very careful in putting the number of stamens and ^pistils correctly; a botanist will detect an error of this kind immediately, and the character of the flower is destroyed. The ends may be dipped in gum water, and after- wards in powder of the requisite colour. FLUMMERY. Steep three large handsful of very small white oatmeal a day and night in cold water, pour it off clear, add as much more water, and let it stand another day and night; then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till it is of the consistence of hasty pudding, keeping it well stirred all the time it is boiling. When first strained put to it one large spoonful of white sugar and two of orange flower water; pour it into shallow dishes, and serve to eat with wine, cyder, milk or cream, and sugar. FLUMMERY, DUTCH. Boil very gently for half an hour 2 ozs. of isinglass in a pint and a half of water, add a pint of white wine, the juice of three lemons, and the thin rind of one, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another to obtain the essence, and with them add as much more sugar as will make it sufficiently sweet. Having beaten up the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald, stir all the time, and pour the whole into a basin ; stir it till it is half cold, let it settle, and put it into a melon shape. FLUMMERY, FRENCH. Beat 1 oz. of isinglass finely, put it into a quart of cream, and boil it gently for a quarter of an hour, keeping it stirring all the time ; then take it off, sweeten it with fine powder sugar, put in a spoonful of rose and another of orange-flower water, strain it through a sieve, and stir it till half cold ; put it into a mould or basin, and when cold turn it into a dish and garnish with currant jelly. FLUMMERY, GREEN. Dissolve 2 ozs. of isinglass in boiling water, and put to it 2 ozs. of sweet and 1 oz. of bitter almonds, and as much juice of spinach as will make it green; set it over a slow fire till near boiling, and then strain through a gauze sieve; when it grows thick pour it into a mould, and the next day turn it out. FLUMMERY, ISINGLASS. Dissolve without boiling 2 ozs. of isinglass in a pint of water; add an equal quantity of white wine, with the juice and zests of two lemons; sweeten; beat the yolks of six very fresh eggs, add, and thicken over the fire, stirring all the time ; pour it into a basin, stir till cold, and put it into a mould, pots, or glasses. FLUMMERY, MELON. Take some stiff flummery that has plenty of bitter almonds in it, and make it a pale green with tlie juice of spinach. When cold, and it becomes as thick as cream,. wet the melon mould, and put the flummery into it; vour a pint of clear jelly 2 L