CU3 C 394 3 cus of the vertebra are crushed by weight. It is right to tell you, too, that you may have the disease without curvature, and you may have curvature without the disease. " Now as to the treatment. Unquestionably you must keep the patient still: motion of dis- eased parts is always exceedingly injurious ; the greatest good is done by keeping diseased parts in an absolutely confined state. Ease is not only good in counteracting the morbid action of the diseased bone, but in counteracting the dis- ordered action of the medulla spinalis itself, which is the cause of the disorder; and I believe 1 need not enlarge upon this, because it is obvious to common sense that ease is likely to be of efficient good; but in all scrofulous diseases a great deal depends upon the management of the patient's health. The correcting that state of health which gives rise to scrofulous actions must be considered a most important part of the treatment," CUSTARD. Boil a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint of ci-eam and the yolks of five eggs well beaten. When the milk tastes of the seasoning sweeten it enough for the whole, and pour it into the cream, stir- ring it well; then give the custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way; then season with a large spoonful of peach water and two tea-spoonsful of brandy, or a little ratafia. If you wish your custards to be extremely rich put no milk, but a quart of cream. CUSTAED, ANGLO-FRENCH. Make a cream jpatissiere with a little vanilla in it, and when dried add of butter, powder sugar, and crushed bitter macaroons 6 ozs. each, J lb. of dry currants, and the same of stoned raisins, 2 ozs. of preserved cedrat cut in pieces, 4 drachms of crisped orange flowers, half a nutmeg grated, a pinch of salt, and half a glass of white wine ; mix in the whites of twelve eggs whipped firmly, pour the preparation into a raised crust, and bake as usual. CUSTARD, BAKED. Boil a pint of cream with mace and cinnamon. When cold take four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, a little rose and orange-flower water, a little white wine, nutmeg, and sugar to your taste; mix them well together, and bake them in china cups. CUSTARD, BEEST. Set a pint of beest, with a little cinnamon over the fii'e, add three bay leaves, and let it be boiling hot; then take it off, and have ready mixed, a spoonful of flour and the same of thick cream; pour the hot beest upon it by degrees, mix it well together, and sweeten it to your taste. You may bake it in either crusts or cups. CUSTARD, BOILED (1). Boil in a pint of milk five minutes lemon-peel, corianders. and cinnamon, a small quantity of each, six bitter almonds blanched and pounded, and 4 ozs. of loaf sugar; mix it with a pint of cream, the yolks of ten eggs, and the whites of six eggs, well beaten ; pass it through a hair sieve, stir it with a whisk over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, remove it from the fire, and continue to stir it till nearly cold ; add two table-spoonsful of brandy, fill the cups or glasses, and gi-ate nut- meg over. CUSTARD, BOILED (2). Put a quart of new milk into a stewpan, with the peel of a lemon cut very thin, a little grated nutmeg, a bay or laurel leaf, and a small stick of cinna- mon; set it on a quick fire, but,be careful it does not boil over. When it boilS^set it beside the fire, and simmer ten minutes ; break the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four eggs into a basin, and beat them well; then pour in the milk a little at a time, stirring it as quickly as possible to prevent the eggs curdling; set it on the fire again, and stir it well with a wooden spoon ; let it have just one boil; pass it through a tamis, or fine sieve. When cold add a little brandy or white wine as may be most agreeable to the eater's palate. Serve up in glasses or cups. Custards for baking are prepared as above, passed through a fine sieve; put them into cups, grate a little nutmeg over each, and bake them about fifteen or twenty minutes. CUSTARD OF CREAM. Prepare your custard as usual; fasten a paper band about four inches high round it, and fill it with a good cream jMtissiere, with rather less butter than usual. Bake it for three quarters of an hour; take off the paper, dorez it, sprinkle the top of the cream, and colour it with a salamander. CUSTARD, DURHAM. To a pint of cream add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs and about one-third of a pint of mild strong ale; sweeten, and stir it over the fire till it nearly boils; then pour it into a dish, in the bottom of which is laid thin toasted bread cut into square bits. CUSTARD OF FRESH FRUIT. Have ready a tin or copper mould, and line it com- pletely with paste, taking care that it takes all the form of the mould. Then take a sufficient quantity of apricots, peaches, plums, or any other fruit you please, and, having taken out the stones, seeds, and stalks, mix the fruit up with powder sugar, put it into the crust, and bake it in a hot oven. When ready for table mask it with the syrup and kernels blanched and cut in halves. CUSTARD FRITTERS. Having beaten up the yolks of eight eggs with a spoonful of flour, half a nutmeg, a little salt, and a glass of bratidy, add a pint of ci'eam, sweeten it, and bake it in a small dish. When it is cold cut it