DIS DIS [ 422 ] the still, while only the more volatile vapours would arise to the top, so as to pass to the re- frigeratory. The same ohject may he more conveniently and economically attained by managing the fire with caution and address. The greater the surface exposed, and the less the height the vapours have to ascend, the more rapidly does the distillation proceed; and so well are these principles understood by the - Scotch distillers, that they do not take more than three minutes to discharge a still contain- ing fifty gallons of fluid. The condensing apparatus used with the common still is veiy simple. The tube in which the head terminates is inserted into the ujiper end of a pipe, which is kept cool by passing througli a vessel filled with water, called the refrigeratory, or cooler. This pipe is commonly made of a serpentine form; but, as this renders it difficult to be cleaned, Dr. Black recommends a sigmoid pipe. The refrigeratory may be fur- rished with a stop-cock, that when the water it contains becomes too hot, and does not condense all the vapour produced, it may be changed for cold water. A very convenient condensing apparatus, now xnuch used, is a long straight pipe, which is sur- rounded by another tube considerably wider, vhich acts as a refrigeratory. A stream of water is made to pass through the intervening tpace, entering cold at the remote or lower end, and issuing heated at the upper or near end. ]n all cases the product of the distillation drops from the lower end of the pipe into the vessel destined to receive it; and we may observe that, when any vapour issues along with it, the con- densation is insufficient, and we should either diminish the power of the fire or change the vater in the refrigeratory. The body of the still or retort should never be filled above one-half, sometimes not above one- fourth, to prevent the possibility of boiling or spirting over. The mode of applying heat varies according to the nature of the process. When the liquid to be distilled oyer already exists in the material distilled, and especially wlien it is to be dissolved out of a solid by the action of a volatile menstruum, as in the dis- tilled waters and spirits, the heat should be gradually raised, that the action may be com- plete, and that no volatile matter be for'ced over unimpregnated. When, however, a volatile fluid is to have its nature changed by the chemical action of another substance, as in the formation of ether, the heat must be raised quickly, as otherwise part of the spirit will rise unchanged, not etherifled. Means must also be used to prevent the receiver from being heated by the caloric evolved during the condensation of the va]>ours. It may either be immersed in culd water, or covered witli snow or pounded ice ; or a constant eva- poration may be supported from its surface by covering it with a cloth kept moist by means of the trickling of water, from a vessel jjlaced above it, through minute syphons or spongy worsted threads. But as, during the process of distillation, permanently elastic fluids are often produced, which would endanger the break- ing of the vessels, these are permitted to escape either through a tubulature, or hole in the side of the receiver, or through a hole made in the luting. In most apparatuses for distillation consi- derable waste of heat and time is sustained by a portion of the vapour being condensed in the upper part of the still or retort, and running back into its body, to be distilled over and over again. Therefore this part of the apparatus should never be cooled, as is often done, but kept hot, that as little vapour as possible be condensed until it reaches the condenser. If the above-stated rules were carefully at- tended to this branch of distillation might be rendered more perfect than it is at present; nor would there be any occasion for using burnt alum, isinglass, whites of eggs, Ac, to fine down cordial waters, which, by the process suggested, may be rendered clear, sweet, and of a pleasant flavour without any farther trouble. For the information of those who are unac- quainted with this process we shall here subjoin some directions for making a few of such com- pound waters or spirits as are in more general estimation. CtxRON Watee. Take of the dry yellow rinds of citrons 3 lbs. ; orange-peel, 2 lbs.; braised nutmegs, fib. ; clean proof spirit, 10^ gallons ; water, 1 gallon. Digest them in a moderate heat; then draw off 10 gallons, and add the requisite proportion of fine sugar. Clove Water. Take of bruised cloves 4lbs.; pimento, or allspice, ilb.; proof spirit, 16 gallons. Digest the mixture in a gentle heat, and then draw off 15 gallons with a some' what brisk fire. The water may be coloured red either by a strong tincture of cochineal or of corn poppy dowers, and sweetened at pleasure with double-refined sugar. Lemon Water. Take of dried lemon-peel 4 lbs. ; pure proof spirit, 10^ gallons; water, 1 gallon. Draw off 10 gallons by a gentle fire, and dulcify the compound witii fine sugar. OiiANGE Water. Take of the yellow part of fresh orange-peel 5 lbs.; clean proof sjiirit, lOj gallons ; water, 2 gallons. Draw ofl' 10 gallons over a slow fii'e. Eatafia, which see.