[ 320 ] CO A COA classes, and particulai-ly some of the inferior sorts, are frequently mixed together, and thus afford an opportunity of changing the prices of coals. This, however, is always to the loss of the consumer, who loses ten shillings or more in the quality, in the hope of saving four shillings or six shillings in the price. All the coals brought to the London market are publicly sold only by the whole, half, or quarter ship. Those who have neither craft nor wharfs to unload at the rate of 40 chaldrons per day purchase from some of the greatest coal merchants. This is called loading on account, and the former pay one shilling per chaldron for commission. Pool measure is one-fourth of a chaldron extra on any 5 chaldrons; and a room of coals of 5 J chaldrons contains about 68 sacks of 3 bushels each, or somewhat less ; but this quantity may be divided into from 70 to 90 sacks if they are filled up, and not measured by the bushel, under the inspection of a sworn meter. The pool measure, therefore, being larger than the bushel measure, the profit of a coal merchant may be estimated upon an average at 5 sacks upon 5 chaldrons, that is, at about 8 per cent. The heating qualities of some of the different coals known in Great Britain are in the follow- ing proportions:— Scotch Cannel . , . .199 Lancashire Wigan . . . . 196 Yorkshire Cannel . . . .188 Newcastle (best Wallsend) . . 169 Gloucestershire (Forest of Dean) . 108 Welsh (common) . . . . 25 Hence, if the Scotch Cannel coal cost 19s., when the Gloucestershire could be had for IDs. per chaldron, the latter would be no cheaper, for the heating powers of the first are as 199 to 108 of the latter. In other words, 108 chaldrons of Scotch would afford as much heat as 199 chaldrons of Gloucestershire. The following are the quantities of the fuels named required to heat eight gallons of water from 52° to 212°:— lbs. Caking coals 1-2 Splint, or hard coal ) „ ,„ Cannel coal . .J Cherrj', or soft coal . . . 1'5 Wood of lime 310 >» beech . 316 3» elm .... .' 3-52 oak (chips) . 4-20 1) ash .... . 3-SO n maple . 300 jj service . , . . 300 cherry ... . 3-20 » fir ... . . 3-52 3) poplar . . , . 310 liornbeani . 3'3r Peat (average, not compressed) . 7-6 Charcoal of wood . . , , 1-52 i> peat . . . 3-28 It is essential to good and profitable fuel that it should be free from moistm'e, for unless it he dry much of the heat which it generates is consumed in converting that moisture into vapour; hence the superior value of old, dense, dry wood to that which is porous and damp. If 1 lb. of diy wood will heat 35 lbs. of water from 32° to 212°, lib. of the same wood in a moist or fresh state will not similarly heat more than 25 lbs. The value, therefore, of different woods for fuel is nearly inversely as their moisture ; and this may be readily ascertained by finding how much a pound weight of the shavings of each loses by drying, during two hours, at a temperature of 212°. Coals are a most expensive article in a family, and servants should be instructed to he particularly careful of them. They ought not to be always stirring the fire. Fresh coals are quickly turned into dead cinders by fre- .quent and violent stirring, besides its keep- ing the hearth in a constant litter, and giving the fireplace a very uncomfortable appearance. When a fire is made up the coals should be wetted with a little water, and suffered to lie a short time to cake together before they are stirred. Careless servants, by using up the large coals when they are not wanted, have only dust to burn towards the last, and thus both parlour and kitchen have to put up with bad tires till a fresh stock of coals comes in. A fire always burns deader after the bellows have been applied to it; at any rate it should be blown gently, and from a distance. People are apt to suppose that the more coals they heap on a fire the better it burns ; but if it is loaded too much it will not draw till it is half stirred away into the ashes. How many more shovels- ful than are wanted may be thrown on in a day! How few of these go to a peck ! and there are but four pecks in a bushel! See Anthracite and Fire. COAL BALLS. Take a ton of soft mellow clay, which is free from stones, and work into it three or four bushels of small sea-coal previously sifted; form this composition into balls or cakes about three or four inches in diameter, and let them be thoroughly dried. When the fire burns clear place four or five of these balls in the front of the grate, where they will soon become red, and yield a clear and strong heat till they are totally consumed. The expense of a ton of this com- position is but trifling when compared with that of a chaldron of coals, as it may be pre- pared at one-fourth of the cost, and will be of greater service than a chaldron and a half of the latter. COAT. See Apparel and Measurement. To renovate a Mack coat. See Black, Re- viver OF.