DYE DYE [ 440 ] infusion. With the piece in this state the calico-printer has only now to avail himself of the difference between a fixed and a fugitive colour. He therefore boils the piece with bran, and spreads it on the grass. The fecula of the bran takes up part of the colour, and the action of the sun and air renders more of it conjbinable vith the same substance. In other cases the elective attraction of the stuff to be dyed has a more marked agency. A very common ynordant for woollens is made by dissolving alum and tartar together, neither of which is decomposed, but may be recovered by crystallisation in evaporating the liquor. Wool is found to be capable of decomposing a solution of alum, and combining with its earth ; but it seems as if the presence of disengaged sulphuric acid served to injure the wool, which is rendered harsh by this method of treatment, though cot- tons and linens, which have less attraction for the earth, are not. Wool also decomposes the alum in a mixture of alum and tartar ; but in this case there can be no disengagement of sul- phuric acid, as it is immediately neutralised by the alkali of the tartar. Metallic oxides have so great an attraction for many colouring substances that they quit the acid in which they were dissolved, and are precipitated in combination with them. These oxides are also found by experiment to be strongly disposed to combine with animal sub- stances, whence, in many instances, they serve as mordants, or the medium of union between the colouring particles and animal bodies. It appears, then, that the hues which the com- pounds of metallic oxides and colouring particles assume are the product of the colour peculiar to the colouring panicles, and of that peculiar to the metallic oxide. The whole of the operative part of dyeing depends on the application of certain colours, which the workmen call primitive, and which are five in number, namely, hlue, red, yellow,/awn, or root colour, and black. Each of these furnishes a variety of intermediate shades, both according to the nature of the ingredients and the acid or alkaline substances with which they are mixed- Two only of these five colours should be pre- pared with ingredients producing no colour of themselves, but which, by their peculiar acidity and the fineness of the earth they contain, dis- pose the poi'es of the substance to receive the dye. The colours which more particularly require such auxiliary pirocess are,red and yellow, together with those derived from them. Black is ob- tained by a particular preparation ; but blue and fawn colour require none, at least for wool, it being only necessary to scour and soak this substance well, then to immerse it in the dye- ing vat, stirring it well about, and permitting it to remain for a longer or shorter time, in pro- portion as the colour is intended to be more or less deep. The ingredients used in dyeing blue consist of pastel, voad, and indigo. Pastel (Isatis tinctoria) is prepared by gather- ing it when ripe, suffering it to rot, and then working it up into balls for drying, which weigh in general from 150 lbs. to 200 lbs., and re- semble a collection of small dry lumps of earth intermixed with the fibres of plants. In order to extract the coloiir it is necessary to provide large wooden vats from twelve to sixteen feet in diameter, and six or seven feet high, or of a magnitude proportioned to the quantity intended to be used. The preparation of the blue vat is the most difficult process in the art of dyeing, and the practical directions given by those who understand it are either defective or mis-stated. The copper cauldron should be placed as near to thfi vat as possible, and filled with pond watei% to which, if it be not sufficiently putrid, may be added 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. of hay, together with 8 lbs. of brown madder or of the bark of the root. The fire should be lighted about three o'clock in the morning, and the mixture boil for an hour and a half or two hours, when the liquor is, by means of a spout, conveyed into the vat, in which a peck of wheaten bran is previously infused. The pastel balls are next to be put in separately while the liquor is running into the vat, in order that they may be the more easily broken and stirred with the rake, which is a semi- circular wooden instrument, having a long handle. The mixture is occasionally agitated till the vat has received all the hot liquor, and as soon as the vessel is nearly half full it should be covered with a lid somewhat larger than its own circumference. A cloth should be likewise thrown over it in order to confine the heat, after which the whole should be suffered to sub- side for four hours, when it ought to bg un- covered, in order to give it air and to mix it thoroughly. No lime, as is generally, though falsely directed by dyer§, should be put into the vat, but a small air hole left on the tpp. The stirring and agitation may once more be re- peated-at the expiration of three or four hours. If the ingredients after these operations be not yet ready and come to, that is, if the blue does not rise to the syrface, but continues to foam, it will then be necessary, after working the mixture well, to let it stand an hour and a half longer, care heing taken during that time to observe it minutely in case it should cast blue. The vat is then to be filled up with water, and a sufficient quantity of indigo dissolved in a ley of potash, pure water, bran, and madder. The vat being again covered at the end of three hours a pattern is to be immereed in the liquor