FAD [ 484 ] FAS F. FADING is nothing more than bleaching taking place when it is not wished for. For the most part it depends upon the fact, apparently well established, that all coloured substances become colourless if they combine with hydrogen or with oxygen. If an infusion of logwood, of cochineal, of violets, or of turmeric be rendered acid by mui'iatic acid, and a slip of zinc immersed thei'ein, the liquor becomes gradually colourless, and on adding ammonia a white lake is pre- cipitated, consisting of the hydruret of the colour- ing matter combined with oxide of zinc. The zinc has decomposed the water of the acid, and united with its oxygen, and the hydrogen of the water has united with the colouring matter. With oxygen all colouring matters appear also to combine to form bodies quite, or nearly, destitute of colour. Thus, if the chryso-rham- nate of silver be boiled in water, metallic silver separates, and the oxidised colouring matter disappears. This illustrates the manner in which colours fade, and they are more or less fugitive according as their tendency thus to combine with oxygen is greater. On this principle was founded the old process of bleach- ing by exposing the cloth to the conjoined agencies of water, air, and light. The bodies whose colour injured the whiteness of the cloth were gradually changed by oxidation into others less coloured, and more easily removable by Avashing. In the majority of cases, however, the process is not limited to simple oxidation, but carbonic acid is evolved, and the colouring matter is totally decomposed. The colour of many substances, as logwood, archil, litmus, indigo, of most flowers, itc, is removed by sulphuretted hydrogen, and by sul- phurous acid, formed by burning a sulphur match. In these cases there is direct combina- tion, and the colour is restored by expelling the combined gas by heat, or by a strong acid. These details explain why all furniture, pictures, books, and clothes must be removed from rooms about to be fumigated with chlorine for the destruction of infectious and offensive- smelling matters ; also why it is necessary to exclude the light, air, and moisture from fur- niture to pi-eserve its colour; and why a silk umbrella kept in a case retains its colour longer than one constantly exposed. We intended to say a few words upon restoring colours ; but what we have to say will be more clearly stated under the name of each colour, as Black, &c. See also Bleaching. FAINTING. The characteristics are loss of sense and motion, together with sinking or fall- ing down, the heart and lungs scarcely con- tinuing to move. In that species of fainting called syncope the motion of the heart is for a time entirely suspended. While the symptoms take place, and the surface of the body becomes pale, a cold sweat also appears, sometimes on the forehead and on other parts. The eyes are closed, and the extremities become cold. The limbs are flaccid. The mouth is sometimes shut, at other times open. The strength, too, is gone. A recovery is announced by a deep sigh. It is also accompanied with vomiting. Diet abused ; heat immoderate ; impure air, or that which is much rarefied ; exercise too violent; objects, as perceived by the senses, which highly disgust; profuse bleeding; sudden relief from pain ; an injury or aneurism of the heart, or of its great blood-vessels, and ossifica- tions of them, produce this alfection. It may be known from apoplexy by the ab- sence of snoring and of laboured respiration, and from epilepsy by its not being attended with convulsions. The various descriptions of fainting, organic defect excepted, will admit of a cure. The termination, though generally in vomiting, is sometimes in hysterics or epilepsy. The cause, whatever it may be, ought, if possible, instantly to be removed, and if fainting proceeds from loss of blood the body is to be placed in a reclining posture. During the fit such substances as volatile liquor of hartshorn should be applied to the nose, and, as soon as the power of swallowing returns, a little wine or spirit weakened with water may be ad- ministered. With the view of counteracting the tendency to this affection, should it proceed from weaken- ing causes, recourse must be had to nutritious diet, refreshing temperature, pure air, and the correspondent influence of the other ordinary acting powers. Corroborants, chalybeates, mineral watei-s, and cold bathing will also be occasionally found useful. FALLING SICKNESS /S'<?e Epilepsy. " FASHION carries us, as it were, in a per- petual stream, from which we make no attempt to rescue ourselves, but are borne along through all its windings, and are drawn into all the shallows into which folly can pilot us. It does not regulate only the form of our gowns, or the arrangement of our head-dress, but superior tastes and opinions are equally under its dominion. The works of art, however meritorious, if not sanctioned by fashion, are neglected, and the artists allowed to remain un- known. Fashion buzzes its criticisms abroad, and we all admire or condemn accordingly. We cannot avoid comparing this imitative influence on the majority of manldnd to the gregarious