EYE EYE [ 481 J smaller form. Particulars will be found under their various names. EYE. No organ of the body is subject to more diseases than the eye, nor is there any one of which the diseases are more difficult to cure. Though more ignorant persons pretend to cure these than any other class of diseases, yet a very superficial acquaintance with the structure of the eye and the nature of vision will be suCBcient to convince any one of the danger of trusting to them. These diseases often exceed the skill of the most learned physician; hence we may easily infer the dan- ger of trusting them to ignorant quacks, who, without all peradventure^ put out more eyes than they cure. But though the diseases of the eye can seldom be cured, they might often by due care be prevented; and, even where the sight is totally lost, many things might be done, which ai'e generally neglected, to render the unhappy person both more useful to himself and to society. The eyes are hurt by viewing bright or lumi- nous objects; keeping the head too long in a hanging posture; violent headaches; excessive venery; the long use of bitters; the effluvia from acrid or volatile substances; various dis- eases, as the smallpox, measles, &c.; but, above all, from night watching and candlelight studies. Long fasting is likewise hurtful to the eyes, and frequent heats and colds are no less pernicious. The eyes are often hurt by the stoppage of cus- tomary evacuations, as morning sweats, sweat- ing of the feet, the menses in women, and the bleeding piles in men. All kinds of excess are likewise hurtful to the sight, particularly the immoderate use of ardent spirits and other strong liquors. In all diseases of the eyes, especially those attended with inflammation, the cold regimen ought to be observed. The patient must ab- stain from all spirituous liquors. The smoke of tobacco, smoky rooms, the vapours of onions and garlic, and all vivid lights and glaring colours are carefully to be avoided. The drink may be water, whey, or small beer, and the aliment must be light and of easy digestion. For preventing disorders of the eyes issues and setons are of prime use. Every person whose eyes are tender ought to have one or more of these in some part of the body. It will likewise be of use to keep the body gently open, and either to bleed or purge every spring and fall. All excess and night studies are to be avoided. Such as do not choose a seton or an issue will reap benefit from wearing a small Burgundy- pitch plaster between their shoulders. GuTTA SERENA, Or amawosis, is an abolition of the sight without any apparent cause or fault in the eyes. When it is owing to a decay or wasting of the optic nerve it does not admit of a cure; but when it proceeds from a com- pression of the nerves by redundant humours these may in some measure be drained off, and the patient relieved. For this purpose the body must be kept open with laxative mercurial pills. If the patient be young, and of a sanguine habit, he may be bled. Cupping, with scarifica- tions on the back part of the head, will likewise be of use. A running at the nose may be pro- moted by volatile salts, stimulating powders, &c.; but the most likely means for relieving the patient are issues or blisters kept open for a long time on the back part of the head, behind the ears, or on the neck. We have known these restore sight, even after it had been for a consi- derable time lost. Should these fail recourse must be had to a mercurial salivation; or, what will perhaps answer the purpose better, twelve grains of the corrosive sublimate of mercury may be dissolved in an English pint and a half of brandy, and a table-spoonful of it taken twice a day, drinking half a pint of the decoction of sarsaparilla after it. A Cataract is an obstruction of the pupil by the interposition of some opaque substance, which either diminishes or totally extinguishes the sight. It is generally an opacity of the crystalline humour. In a recent or beginning cataract the same medicines are to be used as in the gutta serena, and they will sometimes succeed ; but when this does not happen, and the cataract becomes firm, it must be couched, or rather extracted. We have resolved a recent cataract by giving the patient frequent purges with calomel, keeping a poultice of fresh hem- lock constantly upon the eye, and a perpetual blister on the neck. Myopia, or short-sightedness, and the Pres- byopia, or seeing only at too great a distance, are disorders which depend on the original struc- ture or figure of the eye, and therefore admit of no cure. The inconveniences arising from them may, however, be in some measure remedied by the help of proper glasses. The former requires the aid of a concave, and the latter of a convex glass. See Spectacles. Strabismus, or squinting, depends upon an irregular contraction of the muscles of the eye from a spasm, palsy, epilepsy, or an ill habit. Children often contract this disorder by having their eyes unequally exposed to the light. They may likewise acquire it by imitation from a squinting nurse, playfellow, &c. As this dis- order can hardly be cured parents ought to be careful to prevent it. Almost the only thing which can be done for it is to contrive a mask for the child to wear, which will only permit him to see in a straight direction. In most cases of squinting we shall be enabled 2 I