[ 193 I CAB CAB of meat that cabbages are best boiled with are veal tendons, breast of beef, a bit of round of beef, pork chitterlings, a shoulder of mutton boned and tied into a round, or a trussed capon. Whatever meat the cabbage is stewed with should be previously boiled a few minutes in water to take off the scum. CABBAGE AND CHEESE SOUP. Cut a large cabbage into quarters, and after blanch- ing boil it in water; when three parts done add ^ lb. of butter and the requisite seasoning. Grate ^ lb. of Grujere or Parmesan cheese. Prepare, also, some very thin slices of bread, and, two hours before dinner, make the soup in the following manner:—Take a metal or earth- enware tureen that will stand the fire and that can be used at table; first put into it a layer of grated cheese, then one of cabbage leaves, previously boiled and dried on a clotli; next some of the slices of bread, then those of cheese, commencing again with cabbage, &c., alter- nately, the upper layer of all being of sliced cheese. Having thus filled the tureen within two fingers' width of the top pour on its contents about ^pint of water in which the cabbages, after being blanched, were boiled, making the cabbage broth penetrate to the bottom of the tureen by piercing its contents several times with a knife; then place the tureen on a stove of moderate heat, letting the soup simmer, without stirring, for more than an hour. When the soup is ready for table the cabbage broth will have been all absorbed; some persons, consequently, add more hot broth to it at the moment of serving; but the ti'ue method of serving it d la Provengale is to send it up dry, using with it at table only the finest oil. CABBAGE CREAM. Put a gallon of milk over the fire, and skim it as long as any froth rises; then emj)ty it into eight or ten bowls as fast as you can without making any froth; then set them in a place where the wind may blow upon them. When the milk has rather cooled gather off the cream with your hands, gather it together, and lay it on a plate. When you have laid four or five layers one upon another, then dip a feather in rose water and musk, and stroke it over it; then sift some fine sugar and grated nutmeg over it, and lay on three or four layers more ; then set all the milk on the fire to boil again, and when it rises up distribute it as you did before in your bowls, and use it in the like manner. Do this four or five times, laying on the cream as before, one upon another, till it is as high and round as a cabbage. Let one of the bowls stand, because it will be thickest and most crumpled, and lay on that last on the top of all Strew pounded loaf sugar over the whole and serve. CABBAGE, FLEMISH. Cut a cabbago into quarters, parboil, and then change it into cold water ; squeeze it, take out the heart, and tie it round ; then stew it with a piece of butter, some good stock, seven or eight onions, a bunch of herbs, and a little salt and coarse pepper. When almost done put in some vinegar, and when the whole is sufficiently cooked take a crust of bread rather larger than the palm of your hand, fry it in butter, and put it in the bottom of the dish, upon which place the cabbage and sausages, with the onions round, taking care that the fat be well dried off tho whole ; then skim the sauce, add a little cullis to it and serve it, neither too thick nor too thin. Pour over the whole. CABBAGE, GERMAN. Take some very small-headed cabbages, and, after blanching, cut them up rather small, and turn them a few times over the fire in a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of melted butter or lard. When nearly done moisten with a little giavy or jelly broth, and serve with bacon or sausasfes. CABBAGE AND MILK^SOUP. Boil a large white-hearted cabbage in water; when half done put to it J lb. of butter, seasoning to your taste. When it is well boiled take out three parts of the water, substituting the same quantity of boiling milk; pour it into the tureen after it has once boiled up, putting the cabbage into the tureen also. Serve quick. CABBAGE PUDDING. Take 2lbs. of beef suet, as much of the lean part of a leg of veal; take a little cabbage and scald it; then bruise the suet, veal, and cabbage together in a marble mortar. Season them with mace, nut- meg, gingei". a little pepper and salt, some green gooseberries, grapes, or barberries—in winter some verjuice. Mix them all well together with the yolks of 4 or 5 eggs well beaten; wrap up all together in a green cabbage leaf; tie it in a cloth. An hour will boil it. CABBAGE RAGOCT. Scald one cabbage cut in quarters (Savoys are best); drain the water quite out, tie them with packthread, and braze in a good braze. Serve with a fine thick cullis sauce, well seasoned with pepper. CABBAGE, RED (Flemish). Take two red cabbages and cut them in quarters ; take out the hearts and cut them in pieces; blanch them, then put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a bay leaf, an onion stuck with cloves, some salt and pepper; stir them about, so that the cabbage may be well mixed with the butter. Place your stewpan on the fire, put fire upon the lid of the stewpan; let it simmer three or four hours; turn the cabbage frequently, and be careful not to let it burn. When the cabbage.is done take out the bay leaf and onion; add a little more butter, and serve hot.