[ 227 3 CAN CAN Candles, especially of tallow, improve by being kept, but tbey must be kept in a cold, dry place. A warm store-closet would render it cheaper to buy the candles as needed. The wick of a candle merely acts a mechanical part, supplying the melted tallow, or other fatty material, to the flame; but it is essential that the wick should be of a correct size. If too small it will not carry up the melted portion fast enough, and, consequently, the candle gutters. If it be too large the combustion, or burning, of the oil in the middle is not complete, owing to deficiency of air there, and, as a consequence, the candle smokes and produces smuts. Dr. Fyfe, after numerous careful experiments, gives the following as the relative cost to pro- auce an equal amount of light:— Aigand gas-flame .... I'OO Solar lamp . . . . , . 3-OU Naphtha 200 Solar oil in Argaud lamp . . . 3-98 Whale oil 5-00 Sperm oil 8 00 Tallow candle (two wicks) . . . 12-70 Cocoa-oil candle . . . . . 1310 Tallow candle (one wick) . . . 13'50 Composite 14'50 Palm 18-90 Wax 25 90 Diaphane 27-10 Margarine 28-40 Spermaceti 2920 Composition ...... 29-20 According to this table composition candles are nearly thirty times as costly as gas for pro- ducing an equal intensity of light. The following directions to the " Footman,'* published by Messrs. Houlston and Stoneman, are not sufficiently attended to:—In putting candles into candlesticks care should be taken to set them, upright. To do this take the bottom of the candle in the left hand, and the wick between the finger and thumb of the right; in this manner put it into the noz- zle of the candlestick, but not push it in too tight. While you thus hold it by the wick, turn the candlestick round every way, and you will see whether it stands upright; if it does force it down tightly to the bottom. If the candle be too large at the bottom, take it out and scrape it downwards with a knife whilst you hold it upright by the wick. The candle should not be handled, as it will take off the gloss and make your hands smell, nor should this business be done near a fire. If caiadles be laid down upon any place before they are put into the candlesticks, it should be a place free from dust and dirt, that they may not be soiled; and when the candles are carried up do not forget the snuffers and tray, unless those candles are used that require no snuffing. If a candle be not put in straight and it be tight in the socket, never attempt to bend it or pull it out from above, unless you mean to break it; but take out the socket, and push it out with your finger from below, holding it with your other hand. When candles require snuffing take them of? the table, leaning them to the snuffers, and cut the wicks up to a point, that they may yield a clear light, but never so close as to make them gutter. Take care to close the snuffers, so as not to drop the wick or cause a smell. CANDLESTICKS. In cleaning these a large old tea-tray is very useful to prevent soiling the table with grease, but if there be not such a thing, a piece of stout brown paper or paste- board must serve. Have a piece of soft fire- wood cut to an edge, like a knife; use it for iron, tin, or japanned candlesticks, to scrape off the rough grease. The remainder of the grease melt off by the application of boiling water; then wipe them clean with cloths kept for the purpose, and the tin candlesticks polish with a leather and some dry whiting. In cleaning silver, plated, or German-silver candlesticks, first re- move the short pieces of candle that may have been left to burn in the chamber candlesticks, or in the kitchen upon save-alls ; and then, should there be any grease in the sockets, re- move it with the piece of wood used for the common candlesticks. Having washed them with hot water and soap, and wiped them clean and dry, polish them with whiting and wash-leather, the same as other silver or plated articles. CANDYING. See Candied. CANNELONS. Make a stiff paste with a little melted butter, 1 or 2 spoonsful of water, some rasped lemon-peel, 1 egg, ^ lb. of flour, and half that quantity of sugar; roll it very thin. Make a little cane of card paper, butter it well on the outside, and wrap it in some of the paste. Bake it a few minutes; take out the card, and fill the paste with currant jelly, or any other jelly or sweetmeat you please. CANNELONS (with Filberts). Mince i lb. of filberts, and mix them with 2 ozs. of powdered sugar, and a very little white of egg; prepare the cannelons as above ; just before you put them into the oven roll them in filberts, so as to cover them with them; take care to return each to its place in a baking-plate. Put them in a moderate oven, and colour them a good yellow. Finish as above. CANNELONS, FRIED. Roll out some puff- paste very thin and long, moisten the surface lightly, and place along it, at equal distances, email quantities of apricot, peach, or any other marmalade. Spread it about two inches and a half long, but not more than half an inch ii. width ; turn the remainder of the paste over it, press down the edges, and then cut the canne-