FIR FIS [ 498 ] liability to cold when quitting a room thus warmed for the open air. A peculiar sensa- tion pervades the body; then a chilliness of the skin, which is never felt except on leaving very close or stove-heated apartments. Even in shops we feel sometimes oppressed by the closeness produced by stoves, and gasp for breath when we regain the open air. How unwholesome, then, for those who are compelled to breathe this heated air day after day! Stoves in halls are convenient, because they " burn anything;" but an open fireplace made of iron, and connected with a flue by a pipe, is pre- ferable, and gives plenty of warmth for the interior of a large house, divested of all the smothery, unpleasant effects of a stove. If the draught is properly managed it will bum "any- thing" also, and looks cheerful too, and hos- pitable, which a stove never does. The American stove for burning wood only is the best contrivance of the kind we ever saw, particularly for airing rooms, which it does effectually in two hours, even making the curtains dry and crisp, and airing beds, blankets, &c., in an incredibly short time; and we do not think it is so unpleasant, by any means, as the English stove. It is made of sheet iron, and stands upon four tall, light legs, which render it perfectly safe when placed upon a floor or carpet, without there being any neces- sity for putting an iron plate beneath the feet. Before the door of the stove a sheet of iron is fixed, very much in shape like a dustpan, with raised sides to keep any litter from falling upon the floor. A short piece of pipe is afiixed to the back, to which pipes of any required length can be added, with the elbow resting on the top bar of a fireplace; but the length of pipe containing the regulator must always be next the stove. The whole apparatus is so light that it can I e carried about like a basket. The size which we have found to draw best, and to be the most convenient, measures 14^ inches in depth, the same in breadth, and the same in the length of the leg; while the length of the body (it being oval in shape) is 20 inches. As this stove will only burn wood it is only useful in particular situations; but where wood can be obtained at a cheap rate it will be found extremely convenient. We have been thus particular in our remarks upon grates, because much of our comfort depends upon a warm fireplace in our variable climate ; but we have not attempted to describe the many kinds that are now to be seen in shops. We will only add that simple grates give quite as much heat as highly ornamental ones, and that a great deal of money may be thoughtlessly lavished upon that which is cliiefly esteemed because it is dear. Let young ladies remember this when they are furnishing their house or their wardrobe; for money is a talent of great value, and, if wasted or misused, will rise up against us at a time when houses, and lands, and the world, and all that is therein, can profit us nothing. FIRKIN, when applied to ale, is intended for a vessel containing 7J imperial gallons, that is, 2538 cubic inches. Two firkins are equal to one kilderkin. A firkin of butter is about 56 lbs. FIRMITY. See Feumentt. FISH. There is a general rule in choosing most kinds of fish. If their gills are red, their eyes plump, and the whole fish stiff, they are good; if, on the contrary, the gills are pale, the eyes sunk, and the fish flabby, they are stale. The greatest care should be taken that the fish is properly cleansed before being dressed, but not washed beyond what is absolutely neces- sary for cleaning, as by perpetual watering the flavour is diminished. When clean, if the fish is to be boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put into the water to give it firmness. Care should be taken to boil the fish well, but do not let it break. Cod, whiting, and haddock are much better for being a little salted and kept for a day or two. There is often a muddy smell and taste attached to fresh-water fish, which may be got rid of by soaking it, after it has been thoroughly cleaned, in strong salt and water; or, if the fish is not too large, scald it in the same; then dry and dress it. Care should be taken that the fish is put into cold water, and allowed to do very gently, otherwise the outside will break before the inside is done. Crimped fish must be put into boiling water, and as soon as it boils up put a little cold water in to check the excessive heat, and simmer it for a few minutes. If the fish is not taken out of the water the instant it is done it will become woolly. To ascertain when it is ready, the fish plate on which it is dressed may be drawn up, and if sufficiently done it will leave the bone. To keep it hot for serving, and to prevent it from losing its colour, the fish plate should be placed crossways over the fish kettle, and a clean cloth put over the fish. Small fish may be either nicely fried plain, or done over with egg or bread crumbs, and then fried. Upon the dish on which the fish is to be served should be placed a folded damask napkin, and upon this put the fish, with the liver and roe; then garnish the dish with horseradish, parsley, and lemon. Fish is a dish which is almost more attended to than any other.