EYE EYE [ 482 ] to afford essential relief by the simple process of binding up the sound eye every day for two or three hours, so as to oblige the patient to make use of the debilitated organ, and, accord- ing as it is more or less indisposed, to keep the other more or less veiled, and continuing these means until the diseased eye is enabled fully and properly to perform its functions. Spots or specks on the eyes are generally the effect of inflammation, and often appear after the smallpox, the measles, or violent ophthal- mias. They are very difficult to cure, and often occasion total blindness. If the specks are soft and thin they may sometimes be taken off by gentle caustics and discatients, as vitriol, the juice of celandine, &c. When these do not succeed a surgical operation may be tried. The success of this, however, is always very doubtful. The Bloodshot Eye may be occasioned by a blow, a fall, retching, vomiting, violent cough- ing, &c. We have frequently known it happen to children in the hooping-cough. It appears at first like a bit of scarlet, and is afterwards of a livid or blackish colour. This disorder gene- rally goes off without the use of medicine. Should it prove obstinate the patient may be bled, and have his eyes fomented with a decoc- tion of comfrey roots and elder flowers. A soft poultice may be applied to the eyes, and the body should be kept open by gentle purgatives. The Watery or Weeping Eye is generally occasioned by a relaxation or weakness of the glandular parts of that organ. These may be braced and strengthened by bathing the eye ■with brandy and water, Hungary water, rose water, with white vitriol dissolved in it, &c. Medicines which make a revulsion are likewise proper, as mild purgatives, perpetual blisters on the neck, bathing the feet frequently in luke- warm water, &c. When this disease proceeds from an obstruc- tion of the lachrymal duct, or natural passage of the tears, it is called a fistula lachrymalis, and can only be cured by a surgical operation. There are many diseases to which the eye is liable, requiring the best surgical treatment, which it would serve to little purpose to in- troduce into a work on family economy, several of them demanding different means of treatment, as the affection may be in the acute or chronic EYE, INFLAMMATION OF. This is also called Ophthalmia. It may proceed from two causes, viz., from diseases of the eye or parts in its neighbourhood, or from diseases of the system. Among the various causes producing inflam- mation of the eye ai'e external injuries, such as blows, bruises, and wounds of the organ itself; extraneous irritating bodies introduced under the eyelids; exposure to bleak winds and cold ; little inflammatory tumours, called sties, which arise on the eyelids ; various acrid fumes, sucli as the smoke of pit coal, wood, turf, &c.; too liberal a use of vinous and spirituous liquors, the suppression of accustomed discharges ; the long application of strong light, or fixed atten- tion to minute objects; an acrimony prevailing in mass of blood, &c. It may also arise as a consequence of other diseases, such as measles, smallpox, scurvy, scrofula (king's evil), venereal complaints, &c. Common inflammation of the eyes usually comes on with a sensation as if some gritty particles had insinuated themselves under the eyelids, accompanied with great heat, redness, and pricking or darting pains. As the in- flammation increases the parts swell, and the vessels of the eye not only become increased in size and turgid, but appear more luminous than in the natural state. Great pain is caused by the least motion of the eyeball, the patient cannot bear the light, and an effusion of tears ensues, which is of so acrid a nature as to excoriate every part on which it hapipens to fall. When the inflammation runs high a disposition to fever often attends. After some days' continuance these appearances gradually abate, and at length ultimately cease; but in some cases a discharge of thick glutinous matter comes on, which collects in considerable quantities, particularly during sleep, about the angles of the eye. An affection of one eye only is often succeeded by an inflammation of the other, more especially in scrofulous habits. This form of inflammation of the eye, when it is not a consequence of other diseases, will readily give way to proper means. To abate the inflammation and irritation it is customary to have recourse to the frequent application of some cooling and astringent wash, applied by means of eye-glasses or wet pledgets of soft linen. Any of the under-mentioned may be used for this purpose :—Take sulphate of zinc (white vitriol), super-acetate of lead (sugar of lead), of each 8 grains; distilled water, or water that has boiled and been left to cool, i pint. Or, alum, 30 grains; rose water, 6 ozs. Or, rose water, 3 ozs.; solution of the acetate of lead, 18 drops. To any of these applications, when the pain is very acute, 30, 40, or 50 drops of the tincture of opium may be added, or the eyes may be frequently washed with a decoction of bruised poppy heads, taking a quarter of a grain of opium internally every four or six hours. The alternate use of cold and warm applica tions has sometimes succeeded, where neither of them singly appeared capable of arresting or putting an end to the diseased action.