ALE [ 8 ] ALE of quassia, Spanish liquorice, and calcined sul- phate of soda ; also, muUum, consisting of extract of quassia and liquorice root, and bitter balls, made of powdered gentian, 8 lbs., extract of gentian, 4 lbs., and treacle to mix. When publicans are drawing reduced strong beer by mixing small beer, they add molasses to form a head, and extract of gentian to keep up the flavour; but by adding too much gentian they often make it too bitter, or by too much molasses very ropy. Many brewers meet the demand of the vulgar for an intoxicating power—the object to get drunk with the smallest quantity—by infusing opium, cocculus Indicus, nux vomica, tobacco, and poppy heads ; others, to render it pungent, add capsicum and grains of paradise, and then introduce ginger, coriander seed, and orange-peel, to disguise the new flavour. See Beer and Brewing. ALE (from Mangold Wurtzel). About 10 lbs. of the root to 1 gallon of water make good liquor; but with 15 lbs. to the gallon, excel- lent ale is produced; and the addition of 2 lbs. of treacle to 1 firkin will make a great improve- ment. One-third malt and two-thirds man- gold wurtzel liquor make capital ale. First, to mash and clean the roots, take off the top completely; scrape or pare off the outer rind; slice and boil them until soft and pulpy; squeeze the liquor from the pulp as much as possible, and then boil it again with about 6 ozs. of hops to 9 gallons, and work with yeast in the usual way. ALE (from Sugar). For 10 gallons the proper quantity of hops is 1| lb. On this quan- tity pour on 1 gallon of boiling water, or boil the hops in the water for about five minutes ; then, in the strained liquor, dissolve 14 lbs. of sugar, and mix in 1 pint of yeast of the best quality. Pour the whole into the cask ; it will soon begin to ferment; it will throw up its yeast through a cork-hole at the top. It will require three weeks or a month to complete the fermentation. For the last fortnight the cork may generally be kept in the hole; but it should, once every two days, be removed to give vent. When the fermentation appears at an end the cork may be permanently driven in, and in four days the ale will be fit for draught or for bottling. White sugar affords ales candy coloured; brown sugar imparts proportionate colour, and not so pure a flavour. Should colour an object, it may be communicated by the raspings of an over-baked loaf or by scorched treacle. The ale will 8ponta,neously fine itself. Hops are not the only bitter ; others can much more conveniently be procured in certain situations, as wormwood, powdered bitter oranges, gentian root, and rind of Seville oranges, will afford an excellent bitter, perhaps more wholesome than hops. ALE, BLACKBERRY. Take 2 bushels ot malt, and make it into strong ale, allowing J lb, of hops to it; when the wort is cold enough, put it up into your vessel with a little yeast, and the juice of three quarters of a peck of blackberries fully ripe, and ferment them alto- gether ; when it has worked sufficiently, stop it up close, and at six weeks you may bottle it, and in a fortnight after it will be fit to drink. ALE, CHINA. To 6 gallons of ale made of malt, add ^ lb. of China root, thinly sliced, and the same quantity of coriander seeds, bruised: hang these in a tiffany or coarse linen bag in the vessel till it has done working, and let it stand a fortnight before it is bottled. ALE, COWSLIP. Take to 1 barrel of ale 1 bushel of the flowers of cowslip, flowers picked out of the green part, and put them loose in the barrel, without bruising, into your ale when it has done working, and let it stand a fortnight before you bottle it; and when you bottle, put a lump of sugar in each bottle. ALE, EGG. Take to 12 gallons of strong ale 8 lbs. of lean beef, which must be cut into little bits, and half stewed with a little water; and when it is cold, let the gravy be put into the vessel of ale, and the fat be blown off; then let the beef with 12 eggs, their shells being only bruised, but the films not broken, 1 lb. of raisins, stoned, 2 nutmegs, a little mace and ginger, and 2 oranges, cut round, be put into a linen bag, and hang it in the barrel before it has done working; put in also 2 quarts of Malaga wine, and stop it up ; let it stand three weeks; then bottle it, and into every bottle put a clove and a lump of sugar. ALE, MULLED. Boil a quart of ale with sugar, and any spice according to taste; add wine, brandy, rum, or butter to your taste, and serve it with toast. ALE POSSET. Take a small piece of white bread ; put into a pint of ale made hot in a saucepan; when soft, take it off the fire and grate in half a nutmeg. Put in sugai' to your taste; then pour it into a china bowl, and put in by degrees a pint of white wine. Serve it up with toasted bread on a plate. ALE, POTATO. The potatoes are to be • grated to a pulp and mixed with boiling water, and some ground barley-malt is to be added. The liquid is to be hopped in the usual way, yeast added, and the fermentation induced. In Ireland excellent beer is brewed from pars- nips by a process like the foregoing, but no malt is used, and the bitter is hops. ALE, WELSH. Pour 42 gallons of hot water, but not quite boiling, upon 8 bushels of malt; covei", and let it stand three hours; mean- while infuse 4 lbs. of hops in a little water, and put the same into the tub; run the wort upon