ECO ECO [ 452 ] Malt Ltquor. A quart daily for eacli per- son will be found enough. Meat or Fiish. One pound weight daily is a full allowance both for dinner and supper for each person. If any vegetables are eaten the quantity of meat will be less, so that the value of ] lb. of meat will be sufficient for both meat and vegetables. Vegetabt.es. The expense of these will vary according to the season of the year. Potatoes are, however, a standing dish, and from lib. to l^lb. of these will be an ample allowance for each person for dinner. Of vegetables, and, indeed, every other article in domestic economy, it may be observed that they ought to be purchased with ready money, and at such times as they are cheapest. A winter stock of both potatoes and coals ought always to be laid in at that season when they can be bought cheapest and best. Coals. A moderate fire in a proper grate may be kept through the winter six months on the average consumption of two bushels weekly, and in London the cost of coal, therefore, for one fire should not be more than three shillings per week. Luxuries. Wine, spirituous liquors, strong beer, fruit, cream, and entertainments for friends must be regulated by what families have to spare, always remembering that sick- ness, the physician's fees, and other con- tingencies most be provided for, and also, if there be children, that a provision must be made for them. From these estimates we draw the following corollaries of expenses attending a family con- sisting of husband and wife, four children, and a maid-servant:— WEEKLY. £ s. d. Bread for seven persons, 9 quartern loaves, at lOd. each . . . .076 Butter for ditto, 5i lbs., at Is. per lb. . .056 Tea for six persons, 12 ozs., at 7s. per lb. .053 Sugar for ditto, 4J lbs., at Is. per lb. .046 Meat or fish, 7 lbs. daily, at lOd. per lb., 5s. lOd. daily . . . . 2 0 10 (In this calculation vegetables, puddings, &c., are included.) Salt, vinegar, mustard, pepper, &c. . .007 Milk, 1 pint daily . . . .012 Table beer, at 203. per barrel, 11 gallons, at Cfd. per gallon. . . . .062 Strong beer occasionally. . ..026 Washing . . , . . .070 Haberdashery, viz., pins, needles, thread, tape. &o. . . . , .020 Wear and tear, breakage, scouring materials, *o. . . . . , .023 Candles per week, average winter and summer 0 2 6 Weekly expenses . . 7 0 TEAELY. £ d. J? U Lll pu 1111 (.1 b he vtMi oil iJ_ii iJgnpoi wcciL « 226 Q "Pi\rp f*lici 1 fl>'An 1 r^r pnsil'S fll" J-1 -^-fl 13 10 Q ClotliGs for master End mistress • • 30 0 0 26 0 0 Lying-in expenses (once in two years) per year . . . . . . 7 10 0 Pocket expenses, including letters, &c., for all the family. . . , . 11 16 0 Schooling for two children . . 10 0 0 Apothecary . . . . . 5 0 0 Servant's wages, including tea and sugar . 10 0 0 Standing rent and taxes . . . . 60 0 0 0 0 As regards bread, which in families of the middling classes is the principal article of con- sumption, the preceding calculation is founded on the supposition that the price of good house- hold bread in London is from If d. to 2^d. per lb. Barley, rye, or oaten bread is also eaten in such families, and many of them bake their own bread, which is a considerable saving, so that, should this calculation be too high for the country, it is an error on the right side. The other articles of food are as correct and as generally applicable as it is possible for them to be. Should, however, any of the items here enumerated not prove sufficient, as the income will not afford more, recourse must be had to potatoes, rice, oatmeal, and other wholesome and nutritive articles of food for children, which will save bread, and should be constantly given to them, as proper and economical substitutes for this and other expensive articles of diet. It is better to buy large loaves than small ones, and bread two or three days old is not only more wholesome than that eaten at one, but is more economical, and will go nearly one- fourth as far again. The quantity of butchers meat in the above estimate is rather too low we apprehend, at least for the present state of the markets, although certain and far from indifferent pieces (not prime) may be bought at that price. Much, however, may be saved by the mode of cooking. Meat roasted, baked, or broiled loses fully one-third of its nutritive qualities; if boiled fast it loses nearly as much, but stewed gently it loses least, and what it does lose the liquor acquires; and this, thickened with a little meal, ground rice, Scotch barley, or peas and vegetables, affords a most whole- some food, and the family gets the nourishment of the whole meat at the least expense. Coals vary in their prices according to local situation, circumstances, &c. ; but where coals are dear, coke, wood, turf, and peat are reasonable, and for six months in the year but little is required for coal or candles, for which latter article in families of this description oil is frequently used. The expense of each child is