[ 47 ] ASA ASP from each root; observing, however, that after every third section the root is always suffered to remain unmolested for eight or ten days, in order that it may recover a sufficient stock of juice. Thus, to exhaust one root of its juice, computing from the first time of collecting it to the last, a period of neai'ly six weeks is required, when the root is abandoned and soon perishes. The whole of this business is conducted by the peasants who live in the neighbourhood of the mountains where the drug is procured; and as they collect the juice from a number of roots at the same time, and expose it in one common place to harden, the sun soon gives it that consistence and appearance in which it is imported into Europe. Asafoetida has a bitter, acrid, p'angent taste, and is well known by its peculiar nauseous, fetid, garlic smell, the strength of which is the surest test of its goodness. This odour is ex- tremely volatile, and of course the drug loses much of its efficacy by keeping. According to Kaemfer's account, the juice is infinitely more odorate when recent than when in the state brought to us. " We have this drug in large irregular masses of a heterogeneous appearance, composed of various shining little lumps or grains, which are partly whitish, partly of a brownish or reddish, and partly of a violet hue. Those masses are accounted the best which are clear, of a pale reddish colour, and variegated with a great number of fine white tears. Asa- foetida is composed of a gummy and a resinous substance, the first in largest quantity. Its smell and taste reside in the resin, which is readily dissolved and extracted by pure spirit, and, in a great part along with the gummy matter by water." Asafoetida is a medicine in very general use, and is certainly a more effi- cacious remedy than any of the other fetid gums. It is most commonly employed in hysteria, hypochondriasis, some symptoms of dyspepsia, flatulent colics, and in most of those diseases termed nervous; but its chief use is derived from its antispasmodic effects, and it is thought to be the most powerful remedy we possess for those peculiar convulsive and spas- modic affections which often recur in the first of these diseases, both taken into the stomach and in the way of enema,. It is also recommended as an emmenagogue, anthelminthic, expectorant, antiasthmatic, and anodyne. Where we wish it to act immediately as an antispasmodic, it should be used in a fluid form, as that of tincture. From 10 to 20 grains are a dose of the gum, and from ^ drachm to 1 drachm of the tincture. ASAFCETIDA CLYSTER usually acts like a charm in removing hooping-cough and flatulent colic. It is made by mixing the yolk of 1 egg with i pint of water, and then dib- aolving it in 8 grains of asafoetida. Tliis is enough for 13 clysters for a child under twelve months old, for 6 clysters for a child under three years, and for 3 for a child under seven. Give a clyster every morning and evening for removing hooping-cough. ASARABACGA SNUFF. Dried and pounded fine asarabacca leaves, and Lundyfoot snuff of each 1 oz.; dried and finely-pounded lavender flowers, 1 drachm; essence of bergamot, and oil of cloves, of each 2 drops. Mix thoroughly. This is a pleasant and very powerful compound for producing a discharge from the nostrils with- out sneezing. All the cephalic snuffs are thus compounded. Asarabacca is known to botanists as Asarum Europceum, and is a plant found wild in some parts of England. Dr. Woodville says that a few grains of the powder of asarabacca leaves, snuffed up the nose on several successive evenings, produce a pretty large, watery dis- charge, which sometimes continues for several days together, by which headache, toothache, ophthalmia, and some paralytic and soporific complaints have been effectually relieved. ASCARIDES. Small worms in the rectum. See Anthelmintics. ASH CAKE. See Indian Corn. ASH KEYS, PICKLED. Take ash keys as young as you can get them, and put them in a pot with salt and water; then take green whey, when it is hot, and pour over them; when you use them boil them in soft water till they are tender; then take them out, and put them in salt and water. ASH PIT. Every one has experienced the inconveniencies arising from the dust pi'oduced by the ashes of our fire-places. From experience we can recommend the following as an effectual preventive :— Let a hole be dug beneath the grate, about 2 feet deep, 24 inches wide from side to side, and ] 8 inches deep from back to front. On the top of this space an iron frame, about 2 inches wide, is to be fixed, into which an iron grating is to fit that can be removed at pleasure, in order to empty the ashes which shall have sifted through the grating in the course of (probably) the week; this grating being of such an ecu nomical size as will prevent useful cinders from falling through. ASHEB SAUCE. Chop very small some pickled cucumbers, capers, parsley, shallots, the breast of a boiled fowl, some lean ham, carrots, whites and yolks of eggs; add a good seasoned cullis, and a little mushroom catsup; simmer all together a quarter of an hour. ASPARAGUS, BOILED. Scrape all the stalks very carefully till thev look white, then