GAS [ 545 ] GAS the largest portion of available heat, and its concentration and diffusion at the smallest possible expense. Most of the plana which have been hitherto adopted are acknowledged to be defective in principle, as they are in operation, the quantity of heat which is pro- duced and distributed from the burning fuel not being at all commensurate with the pro- portion of the latter which is consumed. Coal discharges a large quantity of volatile products on its first exposure to heat, the more solid portion only remaining behind, and constituting the material of a common coal fire. In a well-constructed gas apparatus the heat is economised to a great extent. It is now upwards of twenty-four years since the writer first introduced this application of gas, and he found for some time great difficulty to clear away the prejudice which so long ob- structed his laboui's. The lecture given by him in Southampton in June, 1837, which took place at the Mechanics' Institution—now the Polytechnic—must be in the recollection of many of the inhabitants, on which occasion he cooked a substantial supper, and placed it on the table, and it was partaken of by a large number of the company. Although well aware of the advantages of this system of cooking, his success was but partial, having to contend with a variety of opposing powers and circumstances, the cooks viewing with doubt and dislike an invention which threatened to make their mis- tresses independent of them. From the time which had elapsed, and the lectures and exertions the writer made, others entered the field under more favourable auspices. It is most gratifying to him to see its value now so generally admitted. The increasing favour with which the employment of gas for culinary, heating, and other processes is regarded, is due to the reductions which have taken place in the price of the material employed, and to the wear- ing away of those prejudices which invai'iably attend the introduction of all innovations upon preconceived opinions. It took at least twenty years to overcome the prejudice existing against the general use of gas for artificial light; and it is, therefore, not surprising that its use for other purposes should have had a similar period of doubt and difficulty to contend with. It has now, however, triumphed over all opposition. Nor have its advantages for domestic cooking been less significantly demonstrated, as hundreds of families and public establishments can now testify. Numerous testimonials from persons who have used the apparatus for a length of time, also from eminent scientific and medical men, as to the safety and wholesomeness of the gas cooking apparatus, are in the possession of Mr. Sharp. A variety of favourable notices of this invention may be seen in the " Mechanics' Magazine," and in many of the principal periodicals and papers. GAS, LIGHTING BY. We are indebted to Mr. Sharp's work just quoted for the follow- ing observations:— The first question which persons about to become consumers of gas will naturally ask is. What will it cost in comparison with oil or candles ? All who have investigated the subject agree in this answer—that there is no method yet known of producing light so cheap as that obtained from coal gas, taking "into consideration the quantity and quality of the light, and its universal application. When any doubt has arisen it has been occasioned by a comparison having been instituted between two lights of very different degrees of power. For instance, a small tradesman, whose shop has been illu- minated at night by a dip candle, is told that gas is cheaper than candlelight; he determines to adopt it, and after using it for three months finds he has consumed a larger quantity than be expected, and he complains that he has been deceived, and that gas, instead of being cheaper, is much dearer than his one candle. But what is the fact ? His gas burner, which is perhaps, of the kind, of the least economical shape, gave a light equal to twelve such candles all burning at the same time. The balance, there- fore, is in favour of gas: a gas light of equal splendour with the candles would have cost half the price. Afc a very early period after the first introduction of gas, and when the method of manufacturing it was comparatively imperfect and expensive, one of the largest cotton factories in the kingdom, that of Mr. Lee, afc Manchester, was lighted throughout with it. The total expense of the gas for one year, including wear and tear of apparatus, and interest of capital sunk, was under £600, and candles to procure the same light would have cost nearly £3000. The advantage of fas, as to economy, if compared with oil, will e found in a similar proportion ; in fact, the common Argand oil lamp is but a gas manu- factory in miniature, and inevitably a more ex- pensive one; first, from its being carried out on a very limited scale, and next from its necessarily employing a very costly material. Economy ia its first cost, though a great advantage attending the use of gas, is not the only one. Next in degree, and certainly not inferior in its practical consequences, is its superior safety. The cotton wick, which forms the medium of combustion in lights derived both from oil and candles, is a substance which, however indispensable ia that mode of obtaining light, is, perhaps, above all others, the most dangerous, one of the most readily inflammable of all substances; 2 X