CAL CAL [ 217 ] a quenelles sieve into a pan, with a cold boiled calf's udder, an equal propoi'tion of tongue a rScadate, truffles, and mushrooms, cut into , dice. Mix with them 8 eggs, a glass of brandy, and season the whole with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Finish your cake as above, and bake it four hours in a moderate oven. Let it cool before you turn it out. Remove the bacon, trim and glaze the cake with veal jelly, with which garnish your cake. CALF S LIVER CAKE (Hot). Pound a calf's liver and an equal quantity of calf's udder as above, put them into a pan, cut some onion into dice, scald and toss it up in a little butter and consomme, and when cold mix it with the liver, udder, mushrooms, truffles, and more udder cut into dice. Stir in 8 eggs, one at a time. The whole being well mixed, put it into a plain round mould well buttered, cover it with a round piece of buttered paper, and let it stand in a bain marie, with hot ashes under and above, for two hours. When ready to serve turn it on a dish for the table; drain away the water; glaze it. Serve it hot with a pepper sauce. CALF S LIVER A L'lTALIENNE. Cut a calf's liver in thin slices, with parsley, scal- lions, mushrooms, half a clove of garlic, 2 shal- lots, all chopped fine, half a bay leaf, thyme, and. basil pounded. Put a layer of the liver at the bottom of a stewpan, then salt, pepper, oil, and some of the above seasoning; then another laj er of liver, season as before, and so on till you have used all your liver. Stew it for about an hour, and then take it out with a skimmer. Clear away the fat from the sauce, and put in a. bit of butter and a little verjuice or vinegar; thicken it over the fire, stirring it constantly. Put the liver into this to heat again, and then serve. CALF'S LIVER PUDDING. Cut part of a calf's liver into dice; mince the rest with hog's fat; season with salt, pepper, grated nut- meg, pounded cinnamon and cloves, and sweet herbs, and bind them with the yolks of 6 eggs and 1 quart of cream. Put them into skins like black-puddings, and boil them over a slow fire in white wine, with salt and bay leaves. Let them cool in this liquor, and when wanted broil, and serve very hot. CALF S PLUCK. The pluck comprehends the heart, the lights, and spleen. Cut these in pieces, soak them well in cold water, and blanch them; then put them in a stewpan, with a little butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; add a little flour, and moisten it with stock. When done and well flavoured, put to it the yolks of 3 eggs diluted with milk; thicken it over the fl^e, and when ready to serve put in a little verjuice. CALF'S STOMACH. This is used for curdling the milk in the manufacture of cheese. After being well washed with water let it be soaked in vinegar for two hours, then well dried, and hung up in a bag in a dry place until required. See Rknnkt. CALF'S TONGUE must hang till tender; lard and season it moderately, and boil it. It may be dressed in any form, and served with what sauce you please. CALF'S "tongue (with Satice Piquante). Soak 8 calves' tongues, and blanch them for a quarter of an hour; then cool, trim, and lard them with well-seasoned bacon. Put the tongues in a braise, or stew them with carrots, onions, cloves, thyme, bay leaves, and a ladleful of stock. They will require three hours' cooking. When done take off the skins, glaze, and place them round a dish with an oval crouton in the centre. Ser~ve with sauce piquante. CALF'S TONGUE AU MIROTON. Pre- pare and lard as above. Braise it. When done and cold cut it in slices. Put it in a stewpan with mushrooms and sweet herbs, moistened with veal gravy or blood. When done add a little vinegar. CALICO, so called from Calicut, in Hin- dostan, formerly celebrated for its cotton man- ufacture, is the name applied in England to uudyed cotton cloth. In America it is applied to cotton cloth dyed with no more than two coloui's. White calico, in England, is also called cotton cloth; remnants of this sewn together are called fents; a superior kind is called long cloth; a stouter kind is named duck, and double varp is still stouter and much used for night shirts. Calico shirting is used for day shirts, and a superior kind of this is denominated patent twist. For bedding s/teeUji^r calico is preferable to linen, especially in cold weather, and at all times for persons liable to cramp. In buying calico examine whether the threads are straight and evenly woven, for if not it is inferior. Buy the undressed, if you can, other- wise purchase half a yard, and wash it, for the limy dressing put on by the manufactui'er often prevents the quality being ascertained until the dressing is removed. Before sewing glazed cotton, when so stiff as to impede the needle, rub a cake of white soap over it three or four times, after which the needle will pass through it freely. For restoring the colour of calico see Bleach- ing. Printed calico furniture is very liable to fade if exposed to a strong light. It should be shaded, therefore, by keeping the blinds or shutters closed as much as can be conveniently. Cx\LOMEL, or Subchlokide of Mercury, is without smell, tasteless,and of an ivory colour, which deepens by exposure to the light. This mercurial preparation is more extensively and