[ 576 ] GRA GRA named. With regard to the durability of these wines I may add that 1 have kept them for seven years, and during all that time with evident improvement. I should consider them to be as little liable to destruction as foreign wines of the very best fabric. While on the subject of sugar I may also say that the general cause of failure in those wines which are made in this country from ripe grapes is the defi- ciency of sugar, and that even these would be much improved by an addition of it. It is owing to this deficiency that these wines are perishable, and easily converted into vinegar, the natural must being too aqueous to produce a durable wine. The proportion of sugar need not be larger in these cases ; but, as before re- marked, no positive rules can be given for it, since it must vary with the maturity and saccha- rine quality of the fruit, circumstances which differ almost every season. Two modes of management may be adopted with regard to the fruit, either subjecting the skins to fermentation or not. In the first case a greater degree of austerity will be the result, and the wine will consequently vary in its quality. If the object be to make a wine resembling Champagne the skins may be operated on previously to the fermentation. If this manufacture be con- ducted on a large scale the result of a second pressing may be reserved to make a distinct wine ; if on a small one it may either be mixed with the first or rejected altogether. But let me again inculcate that the wine is not made when the ingredients have been introduced into the vessel; it is then that the labour begins, and nothing but care and attention to every part and every minute circumstance of the subsequent processes can insure satisfaction, and produce valuable results. To such uses may the immature fruit of the vine be converted, but the capacities of that plant are not even yet exhausted. Situations may be found in this country where the vine may not produce even immature fruit, yet still it can be directed to the end of wine-making. Chemical examination has proved that the young shoots, the tendrils, and the leaves of vines, possess properties and substances exactly similar to the crude fruit. It was no unnatural conclusion that they might equally be used for the purpose of making wine. Experiments were accordingly instituted in France with this view, and they have been repeated here with success. ^ From vine leaves, water, and sugar, wines have thus been produced in no respect different from the produce of the immature fruit, and consequently resembling wines of foreign growth. The few experiments which I have tried have been eminently suc- cessful. No further rules can be given respect- ing the management of the leaves in addition to those I have laid down for the treatment of unripe fruit. Similar proportions and similar management will in both cases produce similar effects. The leaves, however, scarcely yielding anything to the press, require to be infused in the water some days before they are subjected to fermentation, and they seem to yield their soluble part most readily to boiling water with- out any material alteration in the result." GRAPES, COMPOTE OF SOUR. Take the seeds from 4 lbs. of sour grapes, and throw them into cold water; put some water on the fire, and as soon as it boils put in the grapes. When they rise take them from the fire, and cover them with a cloth till cold; then let them simmer over a slow fire, taking care that they do not boil. When they are green drain them from the water. In the meantime clarify and boil 2 lbs. of sugar to lisse, then put in the grapes, and, having boiled them together a little while, take it off, and skim it. When cold drain away the sugar, and put the fruit into a compotier; boil the sugar once or twice more, skim, and pour it over the verjuice. GRAPES, CONSERVE OF. Grain lib. of muscadine grapes, boil them a moment, and sift them through a sieve; reduce the juice over the fire to a quarter part of what was sifted; put to it 1 lb. of sugar prepared to casse, and let it boil a little; then work it well to- gether till it begins to grow white, warm the whole a moment, and then pour it into paper cases made for the purpose. When it is cool cut it into cakes of what size you please. GRAPES, GREEN: To Preserve. Take the largest and best grapes before they are ripe, stone, and scald them ; let them lie two days in the water they were scalded in, then drain them, put them into a thin syrup, and heat them over a slow fire. The next day turn the grapes into a pan, and heat them the day after; then drain them, put them into clarified sugar, give them a good boil, skim them, and set them by. The next day boil more sugar to souffle, put it to the grapes, give them all a good boil, skim them, and set them in a warm stove all night. The day after drain the grapes, and lay them out to dry, first dusting them veiy well. END OF VOL. I.