BOT [ 1-10 ] BOT White Wines of the Fifth Quality. Cub- sac, Tronsac, Blaze, Boury, and the vineyards called d'Entre-deux-Mers, are in general dry ■wines with little spirit; in a good season they become excellent ordinary wines of the second and third quality. Castillon, near Lebourne, and St. Foy-le-Grand, are common white wines. These last-cited wines are in general made into brandy. BOTANY BAY CEMENT. Melt a ozs. of Botany Bay resin and mix with it 2 ozs. of very fine brickdust. Used, whilst melted, for mending broken common earthenware dishes and pans. BOTTLE, RED. The name of a cordial, to which sometimes the name of Dr. Taylor and sometimes that of Dr. Whitivorth is prefixed. It is composed of brandy, 1 quart; powdered cochi- neal, \ oz. ; oil of origanum, 20 drops. After standing for twenty-four hours filter it. BOTTLE WAX. The red is composed of 5 parts of red lead and 4 parts of tallow, and 15 parts of common resin. The black, 4 parts of lampblack, 5 parts of tallow, and 20 parts of common resin. Mix, and melt in an earthen pipkin, and dip in the corked end of the bottle. BOTTLES : To Clean. A very common but dangerous practice exists of cleaning glass bottles with shot. Arsenic is used in the manu- facture of shot, and when there obtains the Slightest tendency to acidity two virulent poisons (the lead and arsenic) are held in solution. But apart from the elaboration of acetous acid, the carbonic acid invariably present, and to which fermented liquors owe their briskness and effer- vescence, will form two baneful poisons with these metals. It is common to find in glass bottles a dozen or more shots adhering to the bottom within, and which, if left there, becomes soluble, and impregnates the liquor—poisons it, in fact. We know of many cases where serious inconvenience has arisen from this cause, although it has been assigned to the wine or beer being drugged. The remedy is an easy one: to substitute the pyrope, or Bohemian garnet, which can be purchased for twopence per ounce, and which will answer the purpose even better than shot, whilst all apprehension of danger is removed. A handful of very small pebbles is quite as effectual, and still cheaper. BOTTLES, TAINTED. To remove bad smells from bottles put into them some pieces of grey or brown paper-; fill them with water; shake the bottle strongly; leave them there a day or two in this state; when, if necessary, repeat the process. BOTTLING. Let the wine or other liquor be clear, since it does not clarify in the bottle. Fine weather should be chosen and strong smells avoided during bottling. The cask should be tapped a day or two previously, and the bottles be clean and quite dry. They should be of one size, and laid horizontally in the bin with their heads and bellies alternately. The cork^ should be driven in with a wooden mallet, and dipped in a vessel of melted bottle-wax. There should be two persons engaged in bottling wine, one to draw it off and the other to cork the bottles. Place a tap-tub underneath to receive any wine that may be spilt, and a lamp or lighted candle inside to see when the bottles are full ; then seat yourself on a low stool before the cask, and have the empty bottles on one side, so that you can easily reach them. Let the end of the tap go into the neck of each bottle, and place it a little on the incline, that the wine may run down the side. If the bottles are stood upright, the wine in falling to the bottom will froth, and the bottle will have to remain some time before it can be properly filled, unless you allow each one to run over the neck, which will give considerably exti'a trouble and waste the wine. Fill each bottle about half way up the neck, or so as to come within half an inch of the cork when it is driven in; if the wine comes close to the cork it will cause the bottle to burst. In corking the bottles, have a bottle-boot buckled round the knee, into which each bottle should be put, that the wine may be saved should the bottle break during the cork- ing. The corks should be rather larger than the necks of the bottles. Compress them with the CO riling-ma chine at the small ends, so that they may be just put into the necks of the bottles ; but before inserting them, dip each cork in a small cup of the wine, kept by your side on the corking-machine, to rinse off any seed from the cork in squeezing it, and to make it go easier into the bottle. The corks ought to be driven in as tightly as is consistent with the strength of the bottle. When the wine begins to run but slowly, gently tilt or raise the bottom of the cask at the back, and draw off all that will run. clear. The rest (all but the lees) should be passed through a filtering-bag, pouring back the first runnings until it is clear. Bottle the fine, and put it away separately for use. As the filtered wine will be flat, it is a better way to put it into bottles and decant when settled, corking the bottles close, but so that they may easily be withdrawn. After the bottles are all corked, prepare to wax them, but first cut off any portion that may project more than the eighth of an inch above the neck, then cover with melted bottle-wax and seal them. For claret, it is usual to cover the rim of the neck as well as the cork with wax, by just dip- ping the neck as far as the rim into a pot of the melted wax, which may be prepared as in the receipt for Bottle Wax.