[ 83 ] BAT BAY sphere charged with sulphurous exhalations, are rarely affected with chronic diseases of the skin, while other trades seem predisposed to their development, such as the baker's itch and grocer's itch. It is chiefly for the cure of cuta- neous diseases that the sulphurous vapour-baths are employed. In many of these they are very useful, especially those belonging to the genus Scabies and the genus Impetigo of Bateman. A caution is requisite for their safe employment, that the vapour should not be applied to more than a fourth part of the body at one time, lest the disease should be suddenly cured, and the internal organs suffer by the repulsion. The person who uses the sulphurous vapour-bath must be careful not to breathe any of the vapour. This kind of bath has been used in rheumatic affections, some diseases of the , stomach, and in chronic paralysis. It may sometimes be a useful addition to internal treat- ment, but alone can be of little avail, till the state of the internal organs be improved, espe- cially the liver, the action of which is almost always faulty in gout and rheumatism.. The Nitro-muriatic Bath of Scott is of use in chronic inflammation of the liver, such as occurs in warm climates. The iron baths in Nassau and the Hartz are more tonic than the simple cold bath ; but none of the iron can be absorbed at the low temperatiure of these baths ; it is only, therefore, by their direct action upon the skin, and the sympathies of this with the internal organs, that they are more beneficial. We have no knowledge of the effects of the minemlised mud baths, called by the Italians lutatura. (See Gairdner " On Mineral Springs," p. 404.)—(The Penny Cyclopcsdia.) BATHING SPIRITS (Freeman's). This patent medicine is made of 1 oz. of soft-soap, 4 scruples of camphor, 3 grains of carbonate of potash, and 1 pint of proof spirit, coloured with a table-spoonful of Daffy's elixir. BATHING SPIRITS (Jackson's) is made of soft-soap, 2 ozs.; camphor, 2 scruples; oils of rosemary and thyme, of each 45 drops ; spirit of wine, 1 pint. These two compounds are used for rubbing over any part afflicted with pain. See Anodyne Liniment. BATTER PUDDING (1). Take 6 spoons- ful of flour; put them into a stewpan with about 1 tea-spoonful of salt, and half a nutmeg, grated; mix this up with about H pint of new milk; beat up 6 eggs in a basin, and stir them well in the batter; butter a basin or mould well, pour it in, tie it tight with a cloth, and boil it two hours and a half. Sei've with wine sauce. This pudding may also be baked, for which three- j quarters of an hour are sufficient. Currants or i stoned raisins may be added. BATTER PUDDING (2). Take 6 ozs. of fine flour, a little salt, and 3 eggs ; beat well with a little milk, added by degrees till the batter becomes smooth; make it the thickness of cream; put it into a buttei'ed pie-dish, and bake three-quarters of an hour; or into a buttered and floured basin, tied over tight with a cloth. Boil one hour and a half or two hours. BATTER PUDDING (Baked or Boiled). Break 3 eggs in a basin with as much salt as will lay on a sixpence ; beat them well together, and then add 4 ozs. of flour; beat it into a smooth batter, and by degrees add i pint of milk. Have your saucepan ready boiling, and butter an earthen mould well; put the pudding in, tie it tightly over with a pudding-cloth, and boil it one hour and a quarter; or put it in a dish that you have well buttered, and bake it three-quarters of an hour. Currants, washed and picked clean, or stoned raisins, are good in this pudding, and it is then called a black cap; or add loaf sugar and a little nutmeg and ginger without the fruit. It is very good that way. Serve it with wine sauce. BATTER PUDDING (withoutEggs). Mix 6 spoonsful of flour with a small portion of a quart of milk; and when smooth, add the re- mainder of the milk, 1 tea-spoonful of salt, 2 tea-spoonsful of grated ginger, and 2 tea- spoonsful of tincture of saffron. Stir all toge- ther well, and boil one hour. Fruit may be added or not. BAUME DE MECCA. See Balm of GiLEAD. BAY LEAVES are used for flavouring cus- tards, adding to the fragrance of pot-pourri, &c. This kernel-like flavour and scent arise from the prussic acid they contain, but in such minute quantity as to be perfectly harmless when mixed with the other ingredients. Both the leaves and the berries of the bay contain much oil, which is aromatic and stimulating, and the old herbalists administered inwardly both the leaves and berries to relieve flatulency, and formed of them ointments and fomentations for outward application. The oil is known in commerce as laurel oil. BAY SALT is common salt in very large crystals and somewhat dirty, owing to its being procured by the slow evaporation of sea-water in shallow ponds, by its exposure to the sun and wind. It used to be considered as stronger, that is, more powerfully preservative of meat, than the finer grained salt. This, however, is erroneous, for the large-grained salt made in Cheshire and at Maldon, in Essex, is equally efficacious in curing meat; and if it has any advantage in this respect over the small-grained salt, it arises from its dissolving more gradually upon the meat over which it is rubbed.