« CLY [ 319 ] COA 01' buttermilk; or, about 2 tea-spoonsful of soft soap dissolved in 1 pint of soft water. These are administered lukewarm, to soften and remove hard fasces lodged in the rectum and colon. Laxative Clyster. Take of cheese whey, "buttermilk, or decoction of marsh-mallow leaves (fresh), 12 ozs.; Epsom salts, from 6 drachms to 2 ozs.; or castor oil, ] oz.: mix. This composi- tion is chiefly employed to obviate costiveness, or to hasten the operation of an opening medicine taken into the stomach. Purgative Clyster. Take of infusion of senna from 6 to 12 ozs.; Epsom salts, from 6 drachms to 2 ozs: mix. Or, take of socotrine aloes in powder 2 drachms ; soft soap, 3 drachms. After mixing them together in a marble mortar boil them gently in 1 pint of water for fifteen minutes, and then add Epsom salts, from 6 to 12 drachms. Or, castor oil, 2 ozs.; spirit of tur- pentine, 2 tea-spoonsful; gruel, ^ pint. These are prescribed in cases of obstinate constipation, when the rectum and colon are free from irrita- tion or inflammatory excitement. Emollient Clyster. Take of linseed tea from 8 to 12 ozs.; cold drawn linseed oil, from 2 to 3 ozs. Or, take of decoction of marsh-mallow root from 8 to 12 ozs.; olive oil or cold-drawn lin- seed oil, from 2 to 4 ozs. Or, take of gruel or thin starch 12 ozs.; olive oil or fresh butter, from 2 to 3 ozs. Or, take of thin hartshorn jelly 12 ozs.; fresh butter, 1 oz. These are employed in cases of costiveness attendant on piles, inflammatory action, irritation, ulceration, or stricture in the rectum. The two latter are also exhibited two or three times a day to nourish the body when food cannot be introduced into the stomach. The first is a good remedy in irritating affec- tions of the rectum and kidneys. Tonic Clyster. Take of Peruvian bark in fine powder from 3 to 6 drachms ; gruel, ^ pint. Or, take a decoction of Iceland moss from 8 to 12 ozs.; Peruvian bark in powder, 4 drachms: mix. Or, take of decoction of Peruvian bark from 8 to 12ozs.; starch powder, 3 drachms: mix. Or, take of decoction of bark from 6 to 8 ozs.; extract of bark, 3 drachms: mix. These have been found very beneficial in cases of debility, when the stomach was too irritable to retain a tonic medicine, and when the patient had not the power of swallowing, as in the case of putrid sore throat. They have also been administered with success in cases of inter- mittent fevers, attended with great debility and irritation of the stomach and bowels. It is worthy of notice that in cases of intermittents and other diseases, in which the Peruvian bark taken into the stomach excited nausea and purging, the clyster of the decoction of bark \rlth the extract (the last formula) has generally quieted the stomach, and occasioned constipa- tion. The composition of the decoction of Iceland moss and Peruvian bark (the second of the above formula) has been found very bene- ficial in cases oifluor albus and mucous discharge from the bladder, and in preventing miscarriage in those who are subject to it between the second and third months of gestation. When the bowels are confined, or when the clyster occasions constipation, a little Epsom salt should be divided. A tonic clyster is generally repeated three times a day. COAL. There are many varieties of this most important kind of fuel. The Jirst class contains only six kinds of coal, called Wallsend, Bigg's-main, Walker's, Heaton-main, Willington, and Hebburn-main. Tlie prices of these sorts vaiy, according to their abundance in the market, from one shilling to three shillings per chal- dron ; but they are generally upon a par, except the Wallsend, which is mostly sixpence or one shilling dearer than the others. The second class includes three sorts, all of which run large. They light and burn like a candle, and produce white ashes. These are usually mixed either with some of the first class, or with any of the strong sorts of the second, third, and fourth classes, because they run large, and make them burn in a more lively manner. These three sorts are Hartley, Cou- pen-main, and Blythe; and their price is gene- rally from two shillings to four shillings more or less below that of A¥allsend, according to their scarcity or abundance in the market. In this class may be included the best kinds of Midland Counties coal. Next to these are twelve sorts, which possess neaidy the same qualities as the best coals, but are in general smaller, and seldom vary more than two shillings in the chaldron, though they are usually from three shillings to four shillings in price under the 'Wallsend. The third class consists nearly of the same number as the second, and is likewise divided into two sorts, the first of which burns quickly, and produces white ashes ; the other is very strong aud good, but at the same time very small, and is used by smiths and manufacturers. The prices of this class of coals are generally from four shillings to six shillings per chaldron, more or less, under that of the Wallsend, according to their abundance or scarcity. Lastly, the fourth class contains all the re- maining kinds of coal. They differ also in quality : some burn light, produce white ashes, are slaty, and very indifferent; others are small and strong, but not good enough for smiths. The price of these varies greatly, especially of the lighter kind. It is, in general, from eight shillings to ten shillings and even fifteen shil- lings lower than the Wallsend. These different