ELI EMB [ ^67 ] purate, a red streak may be observed running down to the leg. On the inflammation there commencing the fever gradually subsides, leaving the leg greatly enlarged. This is afterwards overspread with scales, uneven lumps, and deep fissures. There is insensibility to pain. The limb, too, ultimately becomes of an enor- mous size. Both legs are occasionally affected. Elephantiasis has by some been confounded with the leprosy of the Arabians. Its symptoms are, nevertheless, totally distinct from those which characterise this latter affection. It may continue for years without materially affecting the health, and would seem to be attended with no other inconvenience than that of dragging alohg too great a bulk. This com- plaint admits but of palliative means. These are mild nutritious diet, and the temperate influence of the other natural powers. There are also alteratives, corroborants, and tepid bathing. Though the removal of the diseased limb has been occasionally attempted the ope- ration is seldom found effectual, the other leg becoming generally subsequently affected. We recommend the application of leeches, and of tight bandages to promote absorption. ELIXIR is a compound tincture. ELIXIR, DAFFY'S. See Daffy's Elixir. ELIXIR DE GARRUS. Take aloes, 2\ ozs.; myrrh, ^ oz.; saffron, 2 drachms; cin- namon, cloves, and nutmeg, of each 24 grains. Bruise all these articles, put them into a matrass, and pour over them a quart of highly rectified spirits of wine, in which has been previously mixed 3 ozs. of filtered river water; close the matrass hermetically, and let it stand in the sun or on hot ashes for twenty-four hours, shaking it frequently. The above substances being thoroughly dissolved, put them into a glass alembic, and distil them by means of a sand bath. From the above quantities you will obtain a quart of aromatic spirit, to which add an equal weight of syrup of capillaire, and a sufficient portion of orange-flower water to give an agree- able perfume; then let it stand a fortnight in a %vell-dosed vessel. At the end of that time draw it off ajid bottle it. Seal the corks care- fully. ELIXIR OF LONGEVITY. Take aloes, 1 oz. 1 drachm; zedoaria, gentiana, saffron, rhubarb, Venice treacle, of each 1 drachm. Reduce the five first-mentioned drugs to powder, and let them pass through a sieve ; afterwai'ds put them into a bottle with the treacle, and add a pint of good brandy; stop the mouth of the bottle well with wet parchment, and when it dries prick several pin-holes in it, and put it up carefully for nine days, taking c^re to fttir it well. On the tenth day let the in- fusion be poured out gently into another bottle as long as the liquor continues clear. The bottle containing this infusion must be well stopped with linen. Afterwards pour a second pint of brandy upon your drugs for a second in- fusion, which you will leave other nine days in the bottle, well stopped like the former, and stir it well in the same manner. You must pour it on the tenth day into another bottle, and when you perceive that the liquor is no longer clear put cotton into the funnel, and filtrate it several times if necessary, to have it quite clear. Do not forget to put a piece of linen over the funnel, that the spirit or liquor may not evaporate. The two infusions should be mixed together in a well-stopped bottle, and you may make use of it immediately. ELIXIR, PAREGORIC. Camphor, 1 scru- ple ; opium in powder, |- drachm ; benzoic acid, ^ drachm; proof spirit, 1 pint. Mix, and let it stand for fourteen days. Filter through blotting paper. It allays the tickling which pro- vokes frequent coughing. Twenty drops on a piece of sugar. To allay hooping-cough it is given to children in doses of from 5 to 20 drops. ELM {Ulmus campestris). This beautiful tree is of great value, and well adapted for planting shady walks, as it does not destroy the grass, and its leaves are relished by horses, cows, goats, hogs, and sheep, all of which eat them eagerly. Its wood, being hard and tough, is used for making axletrees, mill-wheels, keels of boats, chairs, and coffins ; it is also frequently changed by art so as completely to resemble mahogany. For this purpose it is sawn into thick planks, stained with aquafortis, and rubbed over with a tincture, of which alkanet, aloes, and spirit of wine are the principal in- gredients. A decoction of the inner bark of the elm tree, if drunk freely, has sometimes procured relief in inveterate dropsies. It has a bitterish taste, and abounds with a slimy juice, which is recommended in calculous cases, and also exter- nally as a useful application to burns. The outer bark is bitter, contains but little muci- lage, and is totally destitute both of smell and taste. The internal bark of the branches is more bitter than that of the trunk, and is pro- bably, on that account, more efficacious. It is chiefly used for cutaneous complaints, such as the herpes, or shingles, and the leprosy. Dambourney obtained from the bark of this tree a yellow brownish colour in dyeing, and De Vilette manufactured of it a strong brown paper. EMBROCATION. A fluid medicine for rubbing on some part of the body. Embrocation for lumbago. Oil of turpentine rubbed on the loins and taken inwardly, 20