[ 259 ] CHA CHA cinchona, 4 scruples. Make 24 pills, of wliich three should be given twice a day. Confections. Take of carbonate of iron, 6 drachms; ginger powdered, 2 drachms; confec- tion of orange, 1 oz.; syrup of ginger, as much as is sufficient. Make a confection, of which take the quantity of a nutmeg two or three times a day. Or, take of confection of red rose, loz.; ammoniated iron, 3 drachms; compound powder of cinnamon, 2 drachms; syrup of saffron, as much as is sufficient. Make a confection; to be taken as the preceding. Mixtures. Take of tincture of muriated iron, Q drachms fluid ; distilled water, 6 ozs. fluid. Mix them ; a large spoonful to be administered two or three times a day. Or, fake of tincture of ammoniated iron, \ oz. fluid; distilled water, 6 ozs. fluid. Mix them ; it may be taken as the preceding. Or, take wine of iron, 3 ozs. fluid. Two tea-spoonsful to be given three times a day in anv proper fluid. CHAMBER LIGHT. See Candles. CHAMBORD. This is a ragout made of cock's combs, cock's kidneys, fat livers, and fowl's eggs. The combs must be scalded as follows:—Put them into a towel with coarse salt; then, holding eaih corner of the towel, dip the part containing the combs into boiling water, leave it in for a minute, and then take it out and rub the whole together, to take off the first skin that is about the combs, and open your towel. If the combs be not sufficiently skinned dip them into boiling water the second time; but they must not get too firm, as that will pre- vent their whitening. When properly skinned pare the little black points, that the blood may be taken out. Put them into a pint of w"ater, and let them lay on a corner of the stove with very little fire for two hours ; then blanch and put them into a little blanc. Take care not to do them too much. The kidneys must not boil as they would break. Boil the eggs a little to take off the first skin ; throw the whole into blanc, and when the combs are done have ready some Espagnole and a pint of Madeira, both re- duced and then mixed together with large mush- rooms turned, and some small quenelles which have been poached separately. Mix all together and drain the ragoiit, the combs, the kidneys, and the eggs. Put the whole into the sauce with the penelles ; stir gently, not to break the latter; season it well. Add to the above a garnish of soft roes of carp, some good-sized crayfish, and 2 spoonsful of essence of anchovies. To poach the quenelles two must be used, fill one with the farce which has been levelled all round with a knife dipped into boiling water; with the other spoon, which is also lying in boiling water, take the quenelles, and put them into a buttered stewpan, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. A small quantity of salt is required in the water. CHAMOMILE. See Camomile. CHAMPAGNE. The wines of Champagne are too well known to require any eulogy. The vineyards of the department of Marne are those only which furnish the famous wine. Some crus of the department of Aitbe produce red wines justly esteemed ; those of Haute-Marne are less exported. The wints of the department of Ar- dennes are of inferior quality, and do not leave the country ; they are called Mezieres, Bethel, Rocroz, Sedan, and Vouziers. The vine is only cultivated in the districts of Bethel, Sedan, and Vouziers. CHAMPAGNES. The wines of La Maine are the object of con- siderable commerce with all France and foreign countries. The vine is cultivated in the five districts, but it is in those of Eheims and Eper- nay that the celebrated vineyards are found. The white wines particularly have contributed to this reputation by their delicacy, their agree- able flavour, and, perhaps, still more by that sparkling which they preserve even in extreme age, and which, if not so highly esteemed by connoisseurs, is at least most sought after by the generality of their consumers. The red wines are also distinguished by much fineness, deli- cacy, and agreeableness. The plants most generally cultivated are, for the red: Morillon, Fineaii, Meunier, and Fromentes; these last two kinds are met with most commonly in the vine- yards of the proprietors. White : Plante d'Or and Epinette alone fill the best crus, but the growers frequently plant the white Gouais, which they call Marmot, and the fruit of which they employ only for wines for their own use. Those who cultivate vineyards in repute never sell the produce of these grapes, lest they compromise the honour of their vineyard. The white and black grapes are cultivated indiscriminately in the vineyards intended to furnish white wines. This mixture contributes to the perfection of wines of this kind, and particularly to the sparkling. The last best resist the frost and rains frequent at the season of the vintage; they ripen more readily, which is very advan- tageous when the weather is cold; but in the hot seasons the excess of ripeness makes the colouring matters susceptible of dissolution after the first pressure, and tinges the liquor. The wines drawn from these grapes preserve better their limpidness and whiteness; they are more full-bodied, and possess more aroma than those made with the white. They have likewise more spirit, and, consequently, less fit to become sparkling. The white grapes, on the contrary, pro- ducing light wines, which sparkle very strongly,