AK'I ANI [ 21 ] fibres, and accordingly it is to he inferred that tripe is more nutritive. It h certain it is more palatable and savoury. As to other parts of animals, which are abundantly furnished with red blood, though destitute of muscle, we cannot speak so de- cidedly. Some of the glands are coarse and rank flavoured from the peculiar secretions which they produce, and are only used by poor persons; others are esteemed as delicacies, and seem not to be unwholesome. As examples of the latter we may mention the sweetbread, or pancreas, one of the glands belonging to the digestive organs; and the liver of some species of birds and of young quadrupeds. The liver of the goose is reckoned a great delicacy in Germany and Sicily, and the inhabitants there have a cruel method of enlarging this organ while the bird is alive. The spleen is an instance of the former case, being strongly ill-flavoured. The mode of feeding animals, designed for the table, has also a great influence on the quality of the flesh, so much so that nice judges can distinguish whether mutton, if from the same breed of sheep, has been fed on grass or tm'nips, and can tell still more accurately on tasting the fat of pork whether the pigs have been fed, on sour skimmed milk, brewers' grains, or pea-flour It was the practice some time ago, but now almost laid aside, to feed calves and oxen on oilcake. This did certainly fatten them, but the fat was rather rancid in most cases, and never of a good flavour. The truth seems to be, that, though generally, the lean of ani- mals is the most tender and palatable, yet that this is not so much the case when the fat is rapidly produced by artificial management in the feeding. It is, perhaps, owing to the different quality and quantity of food as much as anything that the season of the year has an effect upon the flesh of animals; the heat or cold of the weather, and, in some cases, the periodical return of sexual attachment, must also be taken into account. In the instances of veal and lamb the words, "in season" and "out of season," refer, perhaps, more to plenty and scarceness than to any quality in the meat; for as soon as anything is so plentiful in the market as to cause a fall in the price, and bring it within reach of the poor, then the wealthy classes pronounce it to be out of season. This is the case with some sorts of birds which migrate at certain times of the year—the woodcock, for example—and are on that account to be valued when they can be procured. Such as breed here—the Solan goose, for example—can be procured in the young state before they take flight to their unknown retreat. It has been roundly asserted that there is no bird, and no part of any birds, which may not be safely used as food. Many species, however, are very oily, tough, or bad flavoured; and it is not at least very desirable to eat any animal which feeds on prey or carrion, even though this did not, as it does, taint their flesh. The qualities of the flesh of birds differ very much, both in several species, and in particular parts of the same bird The flesh of birds which live on grain is for the most part preferred to those which feed on insects or fish. The pheasant, the turkey, as well as partridge and moor game, are more esteemed than goose, duck, or woodcock. Many of the water birds, however, are preferred, though, from the nature of their food, they are apt to taste strongly of fish, and to become too fat and oily; to remedy these defects skilful cooks some- times bury them underground for some days, and carefully remove all the skin, and as much as possible of the fat and oil from the inside before dressing them. With regard to the particular parts of the same birds, the flesh of the wing, and the part of the breast nearest the wing, consisting of the muscle exerted in flying, are more dry, tender, and of a whiter colour than the muscles of the leg. This, however, is not the case with black game, in which the more superficial of these muscles are dark coloured, while those deeper seated are pale; and the same is sometimes seen in other birds. In the woodcock the thigh is the whitest and most esteemed part. The belly and the muscles of the thigh, when young enough, or when long kept and properly cooked, are both palatable, juicy, and sufficiently tender. The tendoTis of these muscles, however, are very tough, and, at a certain age become cartilaginous, and even bony. Birds in a domestic state do not readily become fat, if allowed to go at large; for fattening they should be confined in coops, and supplied with as much wholesome food as they can get. Poulterers even cram them with food. Domestic waterfowls must, while fattening, be kept from the water, otherwise they will acquire a strong fishy taste, and, besides, will always remain lean. In general, over fatness may be con sidered as a sort of oleaginous dropsy, and seldom or never is met with in a state of nature. All the soft parts of fish contain gelatine and fibrous substances, and are, consequently, in the edible sorts, nutritious. The fibrous portions are not, except in a few species, red, like the muscular flesh of land animals, but white and opaque when dressed. If cooked fish looks bluish and semi-transparent it is not in season. It is fortunate for us that few if any poisonous fish are found in our seas, being chiefly confined to the tropics. The roe of a great number of fish is eaten. Caviar is the roe of the sturgeon.