[ 401 ] DAI DAG off the fins ; put them into a stewpan with as much water as will cover them ; put to them an anchovy split, a blade of mace, some salt, a spoonful of lemon juice, and a shallot; let these simmer very slowly till they are done enough ; skim them very clean, and lay them to drain in a dish, but keep them hot; then strain off the liquor into a stewpan, and put to it a piece of butter rolled in flour, a spoonful of catsup, some pickled mushrooms, and a glass of white wine; let it boil till it is of a proper thickness. If there is any scum take it off, and pour the sauce over the fish. DACE. Wash the fish well, wipe them on a dry cloth, flour them lightly all over, fry them ten minutes in hot lard or dripping, and lay them on a hair sieve to drain. Send them up on a hot dish garnished with sprigs of green parsley. DAFFY'S ELIXIR. Mix together of senna leaves 4 ozs.; guaiacum wood rasped, elecam- pane root, seeds of anise, caraway seeds, coriander seeds, and liquorice root, each 3 ozs.; 8 ozs. of raisins after being stoned, and 6 lbs. of proof spirit. Let tbam remain, but frequently shaking the mixture, for a week ; then strain through a sheet of clean blotting paper. Half of the quantity may be made at a time if preferred. This is a favourite aperient with some elderly people, and is a popular remedy in cases of colic and indigestion. Dose, from one to four table- epoonsful. DAIRY. In the formation of a dairy there are various important subjects which claim the attentive consideration of the individual by whom it may be established. Sometimes he may think it his interest to obtain the greatest possible quantity of produce ; sometimes it may be more beneficial for him to have it of the finest quality; and at other times it may be necessary to have both these objects in view, the one or the other in a greater or less pro- portion, as local circumstances may require. It is, therefore, of importance that he should know how he may accomplish these purposes in the easiest and most direct manner. To be able to convert his milk to the highest possible profit in every case he ought to be fully acquainted with every circumstance respecting the manufacture both of butter and of cheese; for it may, in some cases, happen that a certain portion of milk may be more advantageously converted into butter than into cheese, while another portion of it would yield more profit if made into cheese. No dairy can be managed with profit unless a place be first provided which is properly adapted for keeping the milk, as well as for carrying on the different operations of the dairy. The necessary requisites for a good milk house are, that it be cool in summer and warm in winter, so as to preserve nearly the same tem- perature throughout the year, and that it be dry, so as to admit of being cleaned at all times. As it is on most occasions difficult to contrive a place within the dwelling house that cau possess all these requisites, it becomes advisable to erect a separate building, which may, ia every situation, be reared at a comparatively small expense, and will answer this purpose much better than any of those costly structures which have been erected for noblemen or gentle- men for this paiticular use. It is hardly possible during the summer to keep the dairy house too cool. On this account the building ought, if practicable, to be erected in a dry and airy situation, near a cool spring or running water, where that convenience cau be commanded. If it be in the vicinity of the latter the water should be so conducted, where the nature of the ground will permit, as to have a small stream brought from the rill, and made to run through the house; and. if it can be introduced by means of a pipe, to fall on the pavement from as great a height as may be convenient. It will be productive of considerable advantage, as it will contribute much to preserve the air continually pure, fresh, and cool. Further, the dairy house should be so placed that no stagnant water may remain near it, and that the cows may have as easy access to it as possible. A trough through which the stream of water flows should also be provided near the house, whence the cows may drink ; and should there be no spreading trees to afford a natural shade, an artificial shade ought to be erected, under which the cows may at all times find a comfortable shelter. The principal parts of a dairy house are the milk room and the cheese room. The milk room ought to be cool, of uniform temperature throughout the year, thoroughly ventilated, and perfectly free from damp vapours and bad smells, and it must be always clean, dry, and sweet-aired. In cavernous countries it might in some instances be fitted up in a capacious, dry, and well-ventilated natural cavern, with abundance of spring water and an opening towards the west—such a cavern as serves best in various countries for the storing and keeping of wine; and in some of the sand- stone districts of Britain it might be fitted up in an artificial excavation, so formed as to imitate such a natural cavern; but in all ordinary circumstances it must be simply con- •structed on the open ground in such a manner, or with such accompaniments, as to exclude alike the excessive heat of summer and all the proper cold of winter. Its temperature at any time of the year must not rise above 55°, nor fall below 2 D