[ 479 ] EXE EXE bilitated, and especially the asthmatic and con- sumptive. 9. As to the time in which exercise is most proper, this depends on so great a variety of con- current circumstances that the rules by which it may be regulated cannot be universal, and must, therefore, be collected from the preceding ob- servations on the properties and effects of air, food, drink, &c. Other particulars, such as relate to the greater or less degree of fatigue attending the different species of exercise, and its utility in certain states of the mind and body, must determine the time, as well as 3. The duration of it; for it is almost impos- sible to lay down positive rules how long every individual, in every particular situation, may continue a certain species of exercise so as to derive advantage. These rules, as far as they can be established, may be collected from the subsequent remarks, and then applied to the various kinds of exercise by which we may be benefited in different cases and situations. It is necessary first to observe that any kind of exercise which we are accustomed to take, with a view to strengthen the body, is far prefer- able to an unusual one, which may be attended with a contrary effect. We ought always to begin gently, and to finish gradually—never abruptly. Exercise in the open air has great advantages over that in houses and close apartments. Be- sides, strong bodily exertions, such as dancing, fencing, turning, and the like, if practised in small and confined places, on account of the in- creased perspiration, soon vitiate the air, and render it unfit for breathing. If we take exercise for the sake of health we ought to employ ourselves during the time with some agreeable object, and not perform any labour, nor seriously occupy the mind. Hence certain kinds of exercise cannot he uncondition- ally recommended to every individual as con- ducive to health, though they should of them- selves be proper, and in other respects agree with the constitution. He who forces himself to take any exercise, or performs it with reluctance, will thence receive more injury than benefit. Motions or tasks, therefore, which we impose upon our- selves as recreations after work, or after sitting and long study, ought to be strictly relaxations, not toilsome exertions. Persons of an active habit find a species of relaxation, and even satisfaction, in a change of their pursuits, and particularly in the transition from hard and difficult to more pleasant and easy avocations. To such individuals any exercise is fi'equently of great advantage, especially if it answer, or appear to tliem to be conducive to any useful purpose. To one who has habituated himself to grave and serious pursuits it should not be recommended to join in amusements that require bodily exertion, and are attended with dissatisfaction and irksomeness, for his health will not be improved by an exercise at once unusual and unpleasant. To continue exercise until a profuse perepira- tion or great lassitude takes place cannot be wholesome. In the forenoon, when the stomach is empty, or at least not too much distended, muscular motion is most agreeable and healthful —it strengthens digestion, and heats the body less than after a full meal. A good appetite after it is a proof that it has not been carried to excess. But it is not advisable to take violent exercise immediately before a meal, as this might occasion a deficiency of those humours which are necessary to promote digestion. If we sit down to a substantial dinner or supper immediately after a fatiguing walk, when the blood is heated, and the body in a state of per- spiration, the worst consequences may ensue, especially if we begin with the most cooling dishes, or with salad, or a glass of cold drink. Exercise is likewise hurtful directly after meals, since it obstructs digestion, and propels those fluids too much to the surface of the body which are designed for the stomach, to promote the solution of food, and without which many crude and undigested particles are forced to enter and to mix with the blood. The old precept of the Salernitan school, " After supper stand, or walk a mile," is as frivolous as it is absurd, for experience sufficiently informs us that most persons, particularly the nervous and irritable, are liable to the heartburn, eructations, and even 'vomiting, when they are obliged to move about or to take any exercise immediately after meals. The instinct of the lower animals also contra- dicts this rule, because the wildest creatures are inclined to rest after food. Persons who are under the necessity of moving immediately after their meals, or who have no other time for walking, must cautiously endeavour to overcome these inconveniences by custom and a more rigid temperance. They should first take the most gentle kind of exercise, and gradually increase it, and, as the late hours of dining now so generally in fashion have in a manner abolished heavy suppers, a moderate walk after a slight evening's repast cannot be injurious ; but at all events fatiguing exercise after a full meal should be delayed till the stomach has digested and assimilated the food, which generally takes place in the third or fourth hour after eating. The most proper occupations after dinner are such as can be per- formed with facility, or without intense reflec- tion or great bodily exertions, and such as afford a kind of amusement. Walking, the most salutary and natural exer- cise, is in the power of everybody, and we can