FRI r 531 ] FRO stalk end of each apple, and scoop out the inside of each piece so as to foi-m a sort of cup with a lid; put them to soak for two hours in a glass of brandy, with a little lemon-peel and cinna- mon. At the end of that time take them out, drain, and fill each apple with apricot marmalade or frangipane; mix up a little flour and white of egg to cement the tops of the apples to the other parts, dip them in batter, and fry them. When they are of a proper colour glaze and serve them. FRITTERS, SWEETMEAT. Having boiled a large beet till it is tender all through, and scraped off the outside, cut it into pieces, and pound them in a marble mortar till you have extracted the juice; then stir into a quart of milk enough of the beet juice to give it a deep red colour, beat seven eggs till very smooth and light, and stir them gradually into the milk alternately with a pint and a half of sifted flour. The red colour will look paler after the egg is mixed with the milk. If you find it too pale add more beet j uice. Have ready some boiling lard in a frying-pan over the fire, and when it has ceased to bubble, and the surface become smooth, put in the mixture by spoonsful, so as to form round or oval cakes of an equal size, and fry them a light brown. If you find the batter too thin stir in a little more flour. As the fritters are done take them out on a perforated skimmer, draining the lai'd back into the frying-pan ; dredge the fritters thickly with powder sugar, and lay on each some pre- served peach, plum, or other sweetmeat. You may heap on every one a spoonful or more of marmalade. Send them to table hot. FRITTERS, WASHINGTON. Boil four large potatoes, peel them, and when cold grate them as finely as possible. Mix well together two large table-spoonsful of cream, two table- spoonsful of sweet white wine, half a grated nutmeg, two table-spoonsful of powdered sugar, and the juice of a lemon. Beat eggs very light, omitting the whites of two, and then mix them gradually with the cream, wine, &c., alternately with the grated potato, a little at a time of each. Beat the whole together at least a quarter of an hour after all the ingredients are mi.xed. Have ready in a frying-pan over the fire a large quantity of boiling lard, and when the bubbling has subsided put in spoons- ful of the batter, so as to make well-formed Iritters; fry them a light brown, and take them up with a perforated skimmer, so as to drain them from the lard ; lay them on a hot dish, and send them immediately to table. Serve up with them in a boat a sauce made in the proportion of two glasses of white wine, the juice of two lemons, and a table-spoonful of peach water, or a glass of rose water. Make the sauce very sweet with powdered white sugar, and grate nutmeg into it. FRITTERS, WINE. Beat six eggs till very thick and smooth, and when they are quite light beat into them gradually six table-spoons- ful of sweet Malaga or muscadel wine, and six table-spoonsful of powdered white sugar. Have ready a sufficient number of large fresh milk biscuits, split in two, soaked in a bowl of sweet wine about five minutes, and drained on a sieve. Put some fresh lard into a frying-pan, and when it boils and has been skimmed dip each piece of the split biscuit into the batter of wine, eggs, and sugar, and fry them a light brown. When done take them up with a perforated skimmer, and drain them well from the lard Strew powdered white sugar over them. FROCK-MAKING. The cut and fashion of frocks vary so frequently that directions given in accordance with the fashion of to-day may be scarcely of any use to-morrow. If the material out of which a frock or any other dress is to be made be of a printed or worked pattern, differing on the two sides, great atten- tion is necessary in cutting, so that the backs, sides, and sleeves may be made to correspond. To prevent mistakes, and insure their answering for the contrary sides, cut them from the cloth with corresponding sides, whether right or wrong, placed together. The pattern should always proceed upwards; then, as the sleeves are cut angularly, the pattern should proceed towards the shoulder, and the straightest part of each sleeve should be set into the front of the frock. The gores should be introduced upon the same rules, placing the sloped side of the gore to the back of the dress. In printed articles, or any the sides of which are different, you do not cut one gore out of the other. On the contrary, fold the cloth double with the selvages to- gether, and cut a piece diagonally from the centime FRONTIGNAN WINES. There are several varieties of wines included under tliis name grown in Herault, all of which are sweet, rich, and luscious, and the red varieties are used to strengthen weaker sorts. Of the red varieties Bt. George d'Orques, Verargues, and St. Christol are mostly used for that purpose. The white varieties with a Muscat flavour are the Frontignan properly so called, which rank next to those of Rivesaltes, the best in France. They have a light colour, a luscious taste, and a grape flavour, and contain 12-79 per cent, of alcohol. They improve by age, and bear car- riage well both by land and sea. Lunel, or C'los Mazet, is less luscious than Frontignan, has less body, and does not keep so long. It is ot a bright yellow colour, and the best vai'ieties of it are