CRE ORE [ 369 ] stewpan two table-spoonsful of clarified sugar; leave it on till it begins to burn and get brown; then shake it about, and put it on 1 oz. of ratafia biscuits, a small piece of lemon-peel, sugar, and orange flower; stir it together; theii put in a pint of new milk boiled. When it has simmered by the side of the stove for twenty minutes beat up four eggs and the yolks of two in a stewpan ; take the milk from the fire, and mix with it half a pint of good thick cream, then the eggs, which rub through a tammy, and repeat it a second time ; rub some small moulds with clarified butter, and fill them with cream ; have a large stewpan on the fire with a very little water at the bottom; when it boils gently put in your cream, and cover it closely, with fire laid upon the cover. If you think proper it may be put into one large mould. When done take them out of the water, wipe them, and turn them on a dish. CREAM CAKE (I). Put 1 lb. of flour upon a pie board, make a hole in the middle, put in half a pint of clotted cream and a little salt; mix the paste lightly; let it stand for an hour, and then add ^ lb. of butter ; roll it out five times the same as puff paste, and form it into small cakes; gild them with the yolk of egg, and bake in an oven. CREx\M CAKE (2). Put into a stewpan 2 glasses of cream, ^ lb. of butter, the rind of a lemon cut small, J lb. of powder sugar, and a pinch of salt; set it on the fire ; when it begins to boil put it by the side of a stove ; take out the lemon-peel, and add by degrees as much flour as the liquid will bear; keep stirring it constantly, and place it on the fire again for five minutes; then pour it into a basin ; add to it one by one as many eggs as will make the paste stick to the fingers; put the paste on a slab, and make your cakes of a round form. CREAM AU CARAMEL. Put 1 pint of milk and J pint of cream, with a bit of cinna- mon, some coriander seeds, and the peel of a young lemon, into a saucepan, and boil them for a quarter of an hour; then take it off the fire, and boil J lb. of sugar with half a glass of water until it becomes of a nice dark colour. Take it off the fire, mix it with the cream, and put it on the fire again until the sugar and cream are well mixed together; then place a saucepan with some hot water in it over hot ashes ; take a dish in which you intend seiwing, and pour into it your cream; then place it in the saucepan; put on the lid of the saucepan, with fire above, and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve hot. CREAM AU CARAMEL ANISE. Infuse 1 drachm of green and the same of starred anise in 5 glasses of boiling milk; keep it covered, and in the meanwhile boil 6 ozs. of sugar to caramel, which must then be dissolved in 1 glass of boiling water. When the infusion is nearly cold pour it on the sugar, and mix both with the yolks of 10 eggs and one whole one, Jib. of sugar, and a grain of salt; stir it well, and then proceed in the usual way. See Ckeam AU Bain-marie. CREAM AU CARAMEL AU BAIN- MARIE. Boil ^ lb. of sugar to caramel; pour a quarter of it into the bottom of a mould which has been buttered, and which must be placed on hot ashes, to allow the sugar to extend over the bottom of the mould; dissolve the remainder of the caramel sugar with a glass of boiling water. When dissolved mix it with 5 glasses of boiling milk, and afterwards with the yolks of 11 eggs and the white of 1 egg, J lb. of sugar, and a grain of salt; mix them together by degrees. Finish your preparation according to the direc- tions for Cream au Bain-marie. CREAM A LA CARDINALE. Pound the shells of thirty boiled crayfish; put them into some butter; mix them well together till the whole is of a fine red colour; then pour on it a pint of boiling cream or milk, with a iiitle sugar in it; boil them together for a quarter of an hour; pass it three times through a sieve ; put to it the gizzards of two chickens, and boil it for five minutes to set it. CREAM AU CHAPELET. Boil a pint of cream, reduce it to half with lemon-peel, cinnamon, coriander seed, sugar, and the skin of a fowl's gizzard chopped ; strain it; prepare a border for the dish with some pounded chocolate and a spoonful of gum dragon melted thickly and sifted through a cloth; put fine sugar to it until it becomes a hard paste; roll bits of it into balls; put them to dry, and garnish the dish round with them. The cream must be finished to your own taste. The balls are joined together with cararaeled sugar in crosses, or any other form, and made to stand up round the cream. CREAM CHEESE. Hang the quantity of cream to be made in a wet cloth in a cool place for six or seven days, which will depend upon the weather and the state of the cream. Put it into a vat lined with a cloth ; put on the press with a light weight; turn it twice a day, and it will be fit for use in a short time. CREAM, CHOCOLATE. Take 1 pint of milk, 1 gill of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs, and 5 ozs. of powder sugar. Mix these ingredients to- gether, set them on the fire, stir them constantly, and let them boil till reduced to a quarter; then add 2 ozs. of grated chocolate, and, having boiled it a little longer, strain, and let it cool. Serve it cold. CREAM, CITRON. Take a quart of cream, and boil it with three pennyworth of good clear a B