[ 279 3 CHE It has been found of essential service in subduing stomach complaints, the effects of gout or rheumatism, and other causes, by di- minishing the effects of acrimonious matters in the intestines ; by removing the load of undi- gested food from the debilitated organs; and by bringing the body to a regular solutive state, v\'ithout weakening the digestive powers. It is highly useful in suppressed menstruation, in removing glandular obstructions, especially of those affecting the liver and the other organs connected with it; in leucorrhoea, in nervous and hypochondriacal diseases, and in checking the progress of incipient dropsies, which so often proceed from them. Persons who, from a long residence in a hot climate, or from indulgence in the luxuries of the table, are suffering under derangement of the hepatic system, marked either by excess or deficiency of bile, and a morbid condition of this secretion, will derive much benefit from a course of this water judiciously administered. It has relieved a variety of scrofulous dis- orders in different parts ; inflammations of the eye and eyelids ; and, from the sympathy exist- ing between the bowels and skin, it has been equally salutary in old ulcers and discharges of the legs, and in several cutaneous diseases, which, in popular language, are called scurvies. Various parts of the human body, particularly the intestines, are infested with worms, which, by means of their living principle, resist the powerf il solvents of that cavity. This water will be found advantageous in expelling them, not only by its purgative quality, but also by its ferruginous impregnation, which is to them poisonous. Its tendency to keep the body in a solutive state renders it a convenient remedy for habitual oostiveness, and for its general consequence, the piles. In short, it is indicated in all cases requiring a continued and moderate alvine evacuation. CHEMISES. There is considerable variety in the formation of women's inner garments. Ac- cording to this variety it will require from 25 to 2 7 yards of yard-wide lin en or calico to make twelve plain chemises of a full medium size, or such as are sufficiently large for most persons. Some persons like to have their sleeves made full, cut either straight or angularly, and set into stitched 'bands, like those of petticoats. Sometimes a three-cornered bit is added across at the shoul- ders, a button being sewn on at the joining in of the sleeve, and the angular point of the piece just mentioned secured to it, so as to pass over and cover the strap of the stays. Others, again, prefer their chemises to be cut out round the neck, and trimmed, or else to be cut with lap- pets. If the former method be adopted a rather smaller quantity of linen will suffice, as some of the gussets may be cut from the pieces sloped out. Some persons put two full breadths of linen into a chemise; and, should the material be only seven-eighths wide, this may occasion- ally be desirable. Kespecting the length of the chemise, some calculate it from the chest only, and add the narrow strips which form the shoulders. This is a very economical mode, and, when lappets are not considered essential, it answers very well, especially for children. For a person five feet two inches in height one chemise will require 2^ yards; for a dozen, 30 yards. First cut off 15 yards, and divide it into 12 breadths. Then take a slip of 5| inches wide off the other 15 yards, which slip is to be made into sleeves and gussets. The remainder of the 15 yards from which have been taken the slip divide into 12 breadths. Then take one whole breadth, and one breadth that has had the slip taken off, and sew the two together to form the body of the chemise. If the selvages are good sew them together; if not simply turn them in, and sew on the right side, and then make a sew-and-fell seam of the other edges. Having finished the two seams open the work, and pin the seams together, so that they may come in the middle of the chemise. Then measure 8 inches at opposite corners of the cloth ; fold it like a gore, and cut it across; then open it, and pin the pieces together. The top will be 16 inches, and the bottom will be considerably wider. Then sew and fell the cross seams, leaving I yard or 9 inches for the armhole. Each shoulder must be sewn and felled 4^ inches. The remaining part must be either cut down for lappets, or cut round for the bosom, as may be preferred. Each sleeve must be cut off 11 inches from the slip, and the gusset must be 4 inches square. If the chemise be made with lappets it must have a gusset of an inch square in each corner. Before sewing it take a gore off from the top on each side, and slope it to a point. These gores must be added to the lower part of the chemise, by which means seams on the shoulders are rendered unnecessary. A gore could be taken off one side of the full length before sewing the linen, and sewn on the other side ; or the linen could be cut into separate breadths, and every two breadths sewn together like a bag. Then place the seams together; pin them correctly; fold the linen diagonally from one end to the other in the proper proportions; and then proceed to the cutting out. This is considered the best way. CHEMISES, NPGHT. For grown-up per- sons yard-wide linen or calico would take, for half a dozen full-sized chemises, cutting them from two full breadths of cloth, about 23 J yards.