cou cou C 301 ] into the patient's drink twice a day. Fuller's Spanish infusion is also a very proper medicine in this case, and may be taken in the quantity of a tea-cupful three or four times a day. In obstinate coughs proceeding from a flux of humours upon the lungs it will often be necessary, besides expectorating medicines, to have recourse to issues, setons, or some other drain. In this case we have often observed the most happy effects from a Burgundy-pitch plaster applied between the shoulders. We have ordered this simple remedy in the most obstinate coughs in a great number of cases, and in many different constitutions, without ever knowing it fail to give relief, unless there ■were evident signs of an ulcer in the lungs. About the bulk of a nutmeg of Burgundy pitch may be spread thinly upon a piece of soft leather about the size of the hand, and laid be- tween the shoulder-blades. It may be taken off and wiped every three or four days, and ought to be renewed once a fortnight or three weeks. This is, indeed, a cheap and simple medicine, and consequently apt to be despised; but we will venture to affirm that the whole materia medica does not afford an application more effi- cacious in almost every kind of cough. It has not, indeed, always an immediate effect, but if kept on for some time it will succeed where most other medicines fail. The only inconvenience attending this plaster is the itching which it occasions ; but surely this may be dispensed with, considering the advantage which the patient may expect to reap from the application; besides, when the itching becomes very uneasy the plaster may be taken off, and the part rubbed with a dry cloth, or washed with a little warm milk and water. Some cau- tion, indeed, is necessary in discontinuing the use of such a plaster. This, however, may be safely done by making it smaller by degrees, and at length quitting it altogether in a waim season. But coughs proceed from many other causes besides defluxions upon the lungs. In these cases the cure is not to be attempted by pectoral medicines. Thus, in a cough proceeding from the foulness and debility of the stomach, syrups, oils, mucilages, and all kinds of balsamic medi- cines do hurt. The stomach cough may be known from one that is owing to a fault in the lungs by this—that in the latter the patient coughs whenever he inspires or draws in his breath fully, but in the former that does not happen. See Cough, Stomach. In coughs which proceed from a debility of the stomach the Peru/ian bark is likewise of con- siderable service. It may either be chevved, taken in powder, or made into a tincture alopg with other stomachic bitters. A nervous cough can only he removed by chaiige of air and proper exercise, to which may be added the use of gentle opiates. Instead of the saponaceous pill, the paregoric elixir, &c., which are only opium disguised, ten, fifteen, twenty, or twenty-five drops of liquid laudanum, more or less, as circumstances require, may be taken at bedtime, or when the cough is most troublesome. Take oxymel of squills, ^oz.; paregoric elixir, 2 drachms, of which a table- spoonful may be taken three or four times a day. Immersing the feet and hands in warm water will often appease the violence of a nervous cough. When a cough is only the symptom of some other malady it is in vain to attempt to remove it without first curing the disease from which it proceeds. Thus, when a cough is occasioned by teething, keeping the body open, scarifying the gums, or whatever facilitates the cutting of the teeth, likewise appeases the cough. In like manner, when worms occasion a cough, such medicines as remove these vermin will generally cure the cough, as bitter purgatives, oily clysters, and such-like. A cough is not only a symptom, but is often likewise the forerunner of diseases. Thus the gout is frequently ushered in by a very trouble- some cough, which affects the patient for some days before the coming on of the fit. This cough is generally removed by a paroxysm of the gout, which should therefore be promoted by keeping the extremities warm, drinking warm liquors, and bathing the feet and legs frequently in lukewarm water. COUGH, STOMACH. For immediate re- lief of the cough, if it is hacking and trouble- some, we know nothing which will be more effectual than the warm bath or the opiate pill for liver cough :—Take of opium 1 grain; sulnnuriate of mercury, 3 grains ; extract of rhubarb, 1 grain. Make a pill, to be taken on going to bed, and followed in the morning with a cup of senna tea. COU&LAUFFLE, GERMAN. TakeSlbs. of flour, l^oz. of yeast, 1 oz. of fine salt, Jib. of sugar, 12 eggs, the yolks of 12 more, 2 lbs. of fresh butter, 3 glasses of milk, and ^Ib. of sweet almonds. Proceed with these materials in the following manner: — Put the butter, having slightly warmed ^ lb. of it, into a glazed pan, and with a large wooden spoon work it up for six or seven minutes; put in 2 whole eggs, and stir it two minutes; then add 3 yolks, and stir again two minutes. In this manner put in the whole number of eggs and yolks, which will produce a kind of smooth cream ; then by degrees mix in 2 lbs. of flour. Dissolve the yeast in a glass of warm milk, and strain it through fi napkin; stir this in well with another