[ 159 ] BRE BRE is by boiling three-fourths of wheaten flour and one-fourth of rice separately. The rice should be well boiled, the water squeezed out (which may be afterwards used as starch for linen, for there can be no better), and the mass should then be mixed with the flour. It is made in the same manner as common bread, and is very nutritive. One pound and a half of flour mixed with i lb. of rice, will produce a loaf weighing from 3 lbs. to 3 lbs. 2 ozs., which is greater than that obtained by baking bread of wheaten flour only. Rice has also been tried in the same proportion with barley, and makes good bread for labouring people ; but the gain in baking is by no means equal to that obtained by mixing it with wheat. Another mode of preparing bread with all the bran {see Bran) is as follows:— Take 7 lbs. 7 ozs. of bran and pollard, and 14 quarts of water, and boil the whole very gently over a slow fire. When the mixture begins to swell and thicken let it be frequently stirred, to prevent its boiling over, or burning either at the bottom or sides of the vessel. After having boiled two hours, it will acquire the consistence of a thin pudding. Now put it into a clean cloth and squeeze out the liquor ; take a quart of this, mix it with 3 pints of yeast, and set the sponge for 28 lbs. of flour. The mass, bran and pollard, even after the liquor has been separated, will be found to be above four times its original weight; it is then to be placed near the fire. In about two hours the sponge will have sufficiently risen. The bran and pollard, then lukewarm, should be mixed with the flour; and, after adding ^ lb. of salt, the whole must be well kneaded, with 1 quart of the bran liquor. Thus prepared the dough is formed into loaves and baked for two hours and a quarter in a common oven. The bread, when cold, will weigh one half more than the same quantity of flour would, without the addition of the bran. If the bran water only is used, and the bran itself (which, by the boiling, increases con- siderably in weight) is not added to the dough, the increase of bread will still be considerable ; but not more than one-third of the increase obtained when all the bran is used. Rye flour is sometimes mixed with that of wheat in the proportion of J lb. of rye to 3 lbs. of wheat, and fermented in the usual way. It may also be used for family pie crust. Bread and crust so made is somewhat sweeter and closer in texture than when made of wheat-flour alone. Parsnips and beet-root boiled, reduced to a fine pulp, and mixed with four times their weight of wheat-flour, make a wholesome bread. BREAD BAKED IN PANS. Put a peck of fine flour, called Hertfordshire whites, into a wooden bowl that has been previously warmed. Let it stand before the fire for about an hour, then mix up a sufficient quantity of salt and yeast with warm water, and make up the bread at once, instead of setting a small quantity to work in the first instance, as is generally prac- tised; In this way it stands covered with a cloth before the fire for about three hours ; it is then made up into loaves and put in earthen- ware pans and set ihto a quick oven. When well soaked and nearly done they are taken out of the pans and set on tins for a few minutes, in order that the crust may become brown; they are then taken out and wrapped in flannel, and, when cold, rasped. Bread made in this manner is much lighter than the common baker's bread, and when cut puts on the appear- ance of a honeycomb. It is necessary to re- mark that the dough must by no means be near so stiff as usual. BREAD CRUMBS (Fried). Rub the crumb of bread which has been baked two days through a wire sieve, or cullender; or you may rub it in a cloth till the particles ai'e as fine as if they had been grated and sifted ; put them into a stevvpan with 2 ozs. of butter, place it over a moderate fire, and stir them about with a wooden spoon till they are the colour of a guinea; spread them on a sieve and let them stand ten minutes to drain, turning them frequently. Fried crumbs are sent up with roasted sweetbreads, or larks, pheasants, partridges, woodcocks, and grouse, or moor game. BREAD, FRENCH. With J peck of fine flour mix the yolks of 3 and whites of 2 eggs, beaten and strained, a little salt, ^ pint of good yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light dough. Stir it about, but do not knead it. Have ready three quart wooden dishes, divide the dough among them, set to rise, then turn them out into the oven, which must be quick. Rasp when done. BREAD PUDDING. Take a pint of bread- crumbs, put them in a stevvpan with as much milk as will cover them, the peel of a lemon, and a little grated nutmeg, a small piece of cinnamon; boil about ten minutes; sweeten with powdered loaf sugar ; take out the cinna- mon, and put in 4 eggs ; beat all well together, and bake half an hour, or boil rather more than an hour. BREAD ROLLS. Warm 1 oz. of butter in t pint of milk, put to it H spoonful of yeast of small beer, and a little salt. Put 2 lbs. of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. Let it rise an hour ; knead it well; make into 7 rolls, and bake in a quick oven. If made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and buttered, they resemble Sally Lunn's, as made at Bath. The foregoing receipt, with the addition of a little saffron boiled