[ 398 ] C YD CUT milk, softened with a little sweet oil or fresh butter. This must be applied instead of a plaster, and should be changed twice a day. If the wound be large, and there is reason to fear an inflammation, the patient should be kept on a very low diet. He must abstain from animal food, strong liquors, and everything that is of a heating nature. If he be of a full habit, and has lost but little blood from the wound, he must be bled, and if the symptoms be urgent the operation may be repeated; but when the patient has been greatly weakened by loss of blood from the wound it will be dangerous to bleed him, even though a fever should ensue. Nature should never be too far exhausted. It is always more safe to allow her to struggle with the disease in her own way than to sink the patient's strength by excessive evacuations. Wounded persons ought to be kept perfectly qiiiet and easy. Everything that rulSes the mind or moves the passions, as love, anger, fear, excessive joy, &c., is very hurtful. The body should be kept gently open either by laxative clysters or by a cool vegetable diet, as roasted apples, stewed prunes, boiled spinach, and such-like. When a vein has been divided the danger is very little increased, the bleeding in general being easily stopped by pressure. We know that a vein has been injured by the blood being of a dark crimson colour, and coming away, not in jets, but in a continued stream. All that is required is to bring the lips of the wound to- gether, apply compresses over it made with folded linen, and retain them there by a bandage. This is also proper in those cases where the bleeding comes from arteries of a large size. We recognise bleeding from an artery by the blood coming away in rapid and successive jets, and being of a bright vermilion colour. A person in a fit of passion has inflicted a blow with a sharp-pointed instrument, a large blood-vessel has been cut, and profuse hemorrhage is the instant consequence. The blood comes awayia rapid jets, producing, by the velocity with which it is ejected, a whizzing noise, and the man in a few seconds falls down pale and ghastly in a state of fainting. Then all is confusion, and, if no one is capable of reasoning or reflecting, the man is either allowed to bleed to death, or cloths and napkins are heaped upon the wound, only serving to conceal from the eye the progress of the mischief. Our first and most important object is to stop for a time the flow of blood,which, unless checked, ■will speedily destroy the patient. This is to be done, not by covering the part with rags and cloths, but by thrusting the finger down to the butVom of the wound, where we shall be directed by the warm current of blood to the orifice of the artery, upon which we are to press firmly and unhesitatingly. This being done we may pro- ceed to check the circulation towards the part. This is performed by the tourniquet, which is drawn tightly around the limb, between the heart and tlie part where the artery is wounded ; but, as it is supposed that such an instrument is not always at hand, we are to be content with press- ing the finger on the artery, thus commanding the flow of blood till the instrument can be procured. A silk handkerchief twisted, as already directed, tightly by a piece of wood, is a good substitute. CUTTLE-FISH BONE. The fish pro- ducing this bone is the Sepia officinalis, and found commonly on our coasts. The bone is nothing more than chalk (carbonate of lime). This curious fish, when frightened or pursued, emits a black liquor, which is supposed to have been used by the ancients instead of writing ink. It was also esteemed by them as a delicacy, but at present is relished only by the Italians. Its porous and laminated bones were formerly era- ployed in medicine as an absorbent, and are still kept in the druggist shops. They are hard on one side, but soft and yielding on the other, so that very neat impressions from medals, &c.,. may be easily made upon them, and then sei've as moulds for casting metallic figures represent- ing the original. These bones in a calcined state are farther useful, not only for cleaning and polishing silver, but chiefly for absorbing the acidity and tartness of wines, which, if not completely spoiled, may thus be restored to their foi'mer briskness. CYDER. Cyder is the fruit liquor prepared by means of fermentation from the expressed juice of different sorts of apples. The process by which ■ this liquor is formed has much similarity in all the different districts, although there is much diversity in regard to the care and management bestowed upon it. The varieties of apples which are grown and cultivated in the different fruit districts of the kingdom for this intention are extremely numerous. The following is a list of the most approved :—Styre, Coccagee, Golden Harvey, liedstreak. Golden Pippin, Queening, and Cowarne Red. There have been several varieties of apples introduced from Normandy, and are thence called Red Norman, Yellow Norman, &c. Mr. Knight's new kinds are also highly esteemed for cyder, namely, the Downton Pippin, the Grange Apple, the Foxley, and the Bringewood Pippin. Gathering the fruit. Great care should be taken that it is sufficiently ripe before it is re- moved from the trees, otherwise the cyder will be harsh, rojgh, and unpleasant to the taste. It should be gathered on a dry day, when the