L 603 J FIS FIS mushroom or truffles, pepper, and salt; put them Into a deep dish, with some light force- niedt round, and cover with puff paste ; egg and ornament the top with leaves of paste ; bake it till the fish is perfectly done, and a quarter of an hour before it is sent to table put in some good strong cullis, with a little Madeira added to it. FISH PIE (3). Take any kind of fish you please, either eel, pike, salmon, tench, &c., scale it, and cut it into pieces ; then line a pie dish with crust, and put the fish into it, with a bunch of sweet herbs, some salt, bruised spices, and a layer of butter at the top; after this put on the top, and let it bake for an hour and a half. When done take off the fat, and put in a good vegetable ragout made in the following manner;—Stir a little flour with butter over the fire till it is of a fine cinnamon colour; moisten with half a pint of white wine, some soupe maigre, or warm water, and add mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, and a little salt. Let the whole boil half an hour, and then add the soft roes of carp parboiled; let them stew a quarter of an hour, and then put the ragout into the pies. Any sort of vegetable ragout may be made use of instead of the above in these pies, such as truffles, mushrooms, morels, or heads of asparagus. FISH PIE, MAIGRE. Bono and cut into pieces a carp, make it into forcemeat with some of the roe, parsley, thyme, shallots chopped very finely, I lb. of fresh butter, salt, a little pounded spice, half a pint of cream, four eggs, and the crumb of a French roll. Afterwards take pieces of eel, salmon, and skate, and pass them with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, lemon juice, and a bit of butter. When they are cold put some of the forcemeat at the bottom of a deep dish, and mix with the fish some stewed mushrooms, the very smallest onions, truffles, and morels blanched, and the roe cut into pieces, and put them into the dish, with some forcemeat round the top; then cover with puff paste, ornament with leaves of paste, egg it, and bake it. When it is to be served to table cut a small hole in the centre of the top, and pour in some good cullis. FISH RfiCHAUFFfi (1). After pike, cod, skate, turhot, soles, or any other white fish has been dressed, pick it from the bones into small pieces; add to 1 lb. of fish, or in the same pro- portion, half a pint of good cream, one table- spoonful of mustard, the same of anchovy essence, the same of catsup and Harvey's sauce, a little flour, some salt, pepper, and butter; make the whole hot in the saucepan, put it into the dish in which it is to be served up, strew crumbs of bread over it, and baste it with butter till it is a little moist; then brown it with a salamander or in a Dutch oven. A wall of mashed potatoes round the dish is aji improve- ment. FISH RfiCHAUFFfi (2). Pick from the bone in large flakes about 211)8. of cold salmon, cod fish, or soles; melt ^ lb. of butter in half a pint of cream, with a little flour and salt; add the fish, and heat it thoroughly. FISH SALAD, SAUCE FOR. Pound loz. of scraped horseradish, and add thereto i oz. of salt, a table-spoonful of made mustard, 4 drachms of shred shallots, J drachm of celery seed bruised, and the same quantity of Cayenne; put to these a pint of bumet or tarragon vinegar, and let the whole stand in a jar for a week, at the end of which time strain it off for use. FISH, SALT. Salted fish requires soaking according to the time it has been in salt. That which is hard and dry requires two nights' soaking, changing the water two or three times: in the intermediate time lay it on a stone floor. Barreled cod requires less soaking; and for the best Dogger Bank split fish, which has not been in salt more than a fortnight or three weeks, still less soaking will be necessary. FISH, SALT : To Dress. Lay the piece you mean to dress all night in water, with a glass of vinegar, and boil it enough; then break it into flakes on the dish, warm it up with cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a little flour, and serve with egg sauce. FISH SAUCE. Take some mutton or veal gravy, and put to it a little of the liquor that drains from your fish; put it into a saucepan, with an onion, an anchovy, a spoonful of catsup, and a glass of white wine; thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful of cream. If you cannot procure cream, instead of white wine you must use red. FISH SAUCE WITHOUT BUTTER. Set over the fire a quarter of a pint of vinegar and half a pint of water (the water must not be hard), simmer very gently, with an onion, half a handful of horseradish, four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. These spices should be slightly bruised. When the onion is quite tender chop it small with a couple of anchovies, and set the whole to boil for a few minutes with a spoonful of catsup. In the meantime have ready, and well beaten, the yolks of three fresh eggs; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and when they are well mixed set the saucepan over a moderate fire, holding a basin in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the sauce- pan over the fire to prevent the eggs from curdling. Do not boil them, but only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of meltied butter. FISH SAUCE A LA CRASTEE. Thicken