DUG t -135 ] DUG and mix them with parsley, green onions, mush- rooms, two shallots (all shred finely), some salt, and coarse pepper; put the whole into the carcass of a duck, sew it up that none may fall out, and stew the duck, having a thin slice of bacon on its breast, with a large glass of white wine, as much stock, two onions, a carrot, half a parsnip, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When done strain off the sauce, skim, and add a little cullis to thicken it. DUCK, CULLTS OF. Roast a duck, and pound it in a mortar; then fry some rashers of bacon to a nice brown, and put them into a stewpan, with a handful of lentils, a clove of garlic, a few cloves, and some savory; let them all stew together. When they have stewed some time pound them with the meat of the duck, and toss it up in a pan with melted lard; put in some veal gravy to give it a pale colour, and strain it. DUCK A LA DAUBE. For this dish it is usual to take a duck that is not quite tender enough for the spit; lard it all over with bacon, and season by rubbing in a mixture of shred parsley and green onions, two shallots, half a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil shred into powder, with salt, coarse pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Having thus prepared the duck, tie it up, and put it into a pot just lai'ge enough to contain it, with two large glasses of water, as much white wine, and half a glass of brandy, adding a little more salt and pepper; close the pot well, and let the duck stew gently three or four hours. When done, and the sauce has come so strong as to jelly, dish the duck, and when cold pour the sauce over it, not serving till the whole is quite cold and jellied. Some cooks add carrots, onions, and a bunch of fine herbs to the stew ; others omit the brandy. DUCK, FORCED. Cut the duck open at the back, and carefully take out the bones, excepting those of the legs and wings ; take all the meat from the body, leaving the skin perfectly whole. With the meat pound i lb. of lean and tender beef, add three handsful of grated bread, four well-beaten eggs, and half a pint of rich sweet cream ; season with pepper, mace, and salt; mix all well together, let it stand for half an hour, and then put it into the duck, which sew up, and make it of as natural a form as possible, but take care that it be not too much stuffed ; boil it for half an hour in some good stock, and then put it into a flat baking pan, with some fresh butter over and under it; bake it in an oven another half an hour, and serve it with the following sauce:—Brown a table-spoonful of butter with flour, about a pint of the stock in which the duck has been boiled, three grated onions, two table-spoonsful of finely cut capers, a little lemon pickle, and a few small pickled onions; boil about a quarter of an hour, and just before pouring it over the duck stir in gradually half a pint of rich cream. DUCK A LA FRANgAISE. Put two dozen roasted chestnuts into a pint of rich beef gravy, with a few leaves of thyme, two small onions if agreeable, a little whole pepper, and a bit of ginger; then take a tame duck, lard it, and half roast it; put it into the gravy, let it stew for ten minutes, and add a quarter of a pint of red wine. When the duck is done enough take it out, boil up the gravy to a proper thickness, skim off the fat, lay the duck in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. DUCK EN HOCHEPOT. Cut a duck into quarters, and stew them in a small pot, with some turnips, a quarter of a cabbage, pai'snips, carrots, and onions sliced (all parboiled), some good stock, a bit of streaked bacon cut in slices, with the rind left on, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When the whole is done put the duck into a tureen, and the vegetables round it; skim the fat off the liquor in which the vegetables were stewed, and add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, which must be served over the duck. DUCK A L'lTALIENNE. Stew a duck with half a pint of white wine, as much stock, some salt, and coarse pepper; then put two large spoonsful of sweet oil into a stewpan, with some parsley, green onions, mushrooms, and a clove of garlic, the whole shred finely; set it upon the fire, and shake in a little flour, moisten- ing with the liquor of th& duck, which should be previously skimmed and strained off; reduce to the consistence of a light batter, skim off all fat that may remain, and serve it over the duck. DUCK WITH OLIVES. Dress a duck d la braise in the same way as duck d la puree. When nearly done blanch some olives, throw them into the sauce in which the duck was stewed, and boil them over a slow fire. When the olives are done serve them on the dish round the duck. DUCK WITH ORANGE SAUCE. Take a good fat duck, be particular that it is white, prepare it carefully without hurting the skin, blanch the feet, cut off the small joints, and truss them without; turn in the rump, cut the wings close to the body, and take off the neck; mix in a stewpan a sufficient quantity of butter, the juice of a lemon, and salt; fill the duck with this butter, truss it up into a good form, and cover a stewpan with pieces of lard ; put in the duck or ducks, cover with slices of lemon, over them pieces of lard, and season with a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with a clove, a bunch of parsley and young onions, consommee, and half a glass of white wine; cover with a round of