CAT [ 249 ] CAT to be regretted that this useful domestic crea- ture is one of the most deceitful companions. Constantly bent on theft and rapine the cat is e compound of cunning and dissimulation, seizes every opportunity of doing mischief, and flies from punishment when detected. It is, there- fore, not a little surprising that many elderly ladies are so partial to these quadrupeds that they will even suffer them to sleep in the same bed—a practice fraught with considerable danger, as the exhalation of cats is extronely detrimental to the lungs; besides which they are liable to hydrophobia, as well as the more faithful dog. With regard to preserving the health of the cat, it is desirable that it should be known that grass is very conducive to their healthfulness. In towns a few grains of wheat, sown in a back yard, will afford a crop of leaves highly service- able for this purpose. When a litter of kittens has to be destroyed, remove tliem one by one at intervals of two or three days ; otherwise tumours are liable to be caused in the udder of the mother. When a cat is seized with delirium it rushes about vio- lently, and then retreats into some dark corner. Slit both the ears slightly with a shaj-p pair of scissors to obtain a discharge of blood, and give a tea-spoonful of common salt dissolved in twice that quantity of water. If a cat vomits a yellow fluid, attended by diarrhcea, it has the distemper. Give the salt as above directed, and then a small tea-spoonful of beef marrow, to allay the irrita- tion of the stomach. In violent diarrhoea give a tea-spoonful of thickish whitening and water, to which five drops of laudanum have been added. Lady Cust, in her little work, " The Cat," gives the following directions how to administer medicine to this animal:—Roll gently the sick cat in a large cloth, such as a table-cloth, care- fully including all the claws of both the front and back, so as to resemble a mummy, leaving only the head out. Then place it upright be- tween the knees of a sitting person, place another cloth under the jaw to keep that clean, and then with a gloved hand open the mouth wide, but gently, at one effort, holding it open and pouring the medicine from a tea-spoon down the open throat; a very little at once, not to cause choking, but letting it be comfortably swallowed in very small quantities. Do not put the spoon into the mouth, as the cat will bite it and spit out the contents, but pour it from the small spoon. Then with a sponge and chilled water wipe off the least impurity from the mouth and chin, rub it dry with a clean cloth, and unswathe the patient, and put it in a quiet, warm, comfortable place for about an hour and a half. Do not give food or drink during that time, or the medicine will return again; as in human beings, it is ne- cessary to watch the effect of your medicine. You must make a temporary hospital of some unused, uncarpeted room, with a fire, as warmth is half the cure, and every creature in illness ixsquires it more than at other times. Have a comfortable bed for your patient, leave a dish of water in case of thirst (where it would not be pernicious), and do not allow any one but your- self to enter, d& quiet and sleep are nature's own and best remedies; without them there is no cure. CATAPLASMS are applications of a moist, pulpy consistence employed in medicine for vari- ous purposes under the commoner name of/Jowi- tice. In inflammation of the eyes: alum, 1 scruple; conserve of roses, H oz.; beat up with the yolk of an egg. In gangrene and fetid ulcer: linseed, ^Ib.; prepared cliarcoal, 3 ozs.; hot water, enough to bring them to a proper consistence. In open cancer: boil 2 handsful of hemlock leaves in 1 pint of water; then strain and add linseed or oatmeal to thicken. Carrot poultice: boil lib. of carrots in a sufiicient quantity of water until they become soft; extract the juice and beat them into a pulp, and make a poultice, adding the juice again ; for scorbutic ulcers or foul can- cerous sores. Linseed-meal poultice: hot water and linseed-meal, equal parts ; smear the surface with oil or hog's lard before applied to promote suppuration. Also, crumbs of bread, linseed- meal, and hot milk, for the same purpose. Effer- vescent or yeast poultice: wheat-flour, 1 lb.; fer- mented yeast, |pint. Mix, and expose to a gentle heat until it begins to ferment; applied on gangrenous parts. To alleviate pain: soak bread in a boiling decoction of poppy heads, and apply it. The bread poultice made with port wine will be found a beneficial application in gan- grene. Sir Astley Cooper, in his lectures, relates a case of a girl who lately had a gangrenous sore where a variety of applications were tried without effect. The port-wine poultice was at length applied, the immediate efficacy of which was so apparent that, though her life had been despaired of the last time Sir Astley saw her, the sore was brought into such a healthy state that there were great hopes of her recovery. The port-wine poultice is also recommended, by the same eminent surgeon, as the best local application to gangrene caused by injuring the toe in cutting corns. Mustard poultice: take mustard seed and linseed, of each powdered, | lb., boiling vinegar, as much as is sufficient; mix, so as to make a cataplasm. Mustard cataplasms, or sinapisms, as they are also denominated, may, in the low state of such acute diseases as palsy and malignant fevers, be applied to the soles of the feet. CATARRH, or Cold. This is a disease arising generally from a sudden diminution of