BER BER [ 106 ] England, until the art of dyeing be as well un- derstood and as scientilically practised. Of the 14,000 Berlin patterns which have been published, scarcely one-half are moderately good, and all the best which they have pro- duced latterly are copied from English and French prints. Contemplating the improve- ment that will probably ere long take place in these patterns, needlework may be said to be yet in its infancy. The improvement, however, must not be confined to the Berlin designers; the taste of the consumer, the public taste must also advance before needlework can assume that approximation to art which is so desirable, and not perhaps now, with modern facilities, difficult of attainment. Hitherto the chief anxiety seems to have been to produce a glare of colour, rather than that subdued but beautiful effect which makes of every piece issuing from the Gobelins a perfect picture, wrought by different means, it is true, but with the very same materials. In working with Berlin wool most patterns may be done in the common sampler stitch, but fruit and flowers are best worked in tent stitch, for this stitch is the smallest, and, there- fore, facilitates the blending of the colours. One, two, or three threads are used, according to the fineness or coarseness of the canvass. The stitches are made angularly across two threads, one each way, and sloping in the same direction. The canvass must be put upon the frame very evenly, otherwise the pattern will appear slanting. For the following directions we are indebted to an excellent little book, entitled " The Fancy Needlework Instructor," by Mrs. Savage :—The first and principal thing to be observed before commencing this work is to strain the canvass firmly and quite square in the frame, it being almost impossible to execute it well if it is allowed to be loose; the work in that case will be uneven and lumpy, parts where many shades are crowded together being quite raised, standing out in bas- relief from the surface, and having the appear- ance of blotches on what may otherwise be faultless. It is, moreover, apt to draw on one side, and unless mounted on woodwork, where it can be tightly strained, would have a dis- torted appearance, more especially if the piece is composed of figures. Having prepared the canvass as directed, begin at the top, so that by working downwards you may cover up the work as it pi'oceeds ; it will thei'eby be secured from the dust that some wools retain in a great de- gree, which would inevitably soil the light tints and shades of white. Let all the stitches lay from left to right, taking care that they lie pre- cisely the same way at the back. In beginning with every fresh piece of wool., put the needle through on the right side, six or ten threads from the stitch you first made, leaving the knot in front, which must be cut off when the work has secured the end. Observe the same ia finishing with a thread. If you are working on white silk canvass, do not pass the wool through any part that will not be covered, as when it is lined it will appear soiled; and be particular in fastening off, that the wool may not intersect the work at the back, thereby rendeiing the ground very indistinct. If the work is grounded in tent stitch, begin at the farthest stitch on the right; bringing the wool below the thread, and passing it upwards to the right, and so on to the end of the row, always finishing one row before another is begun. Cross stitch. This very useful stitch, from the facility with \(-hich it is executed by the tiny fingers of the little child to the trembling hand of declining age, assisted as it has been by the invention of Penelope canvass, and being, more- over, easily accomplished on the hand without a frame, is deservedly the favourite of all; it is also more durable than tent stitch, and stands unrivalled for all kinds of coarse work, as large ottomans, friendship carpets, hearth-rugs, pede cloths, &c. In working, tie a knot in the end of the wool, pass it through the canvass six or eight threads from where you commence, then bring the needle up I I I I I at (a), pass down at (b), bring it up again ~ at (c), and pass it - down at (d) ; fasten - off by bringing the _ end of the wool _ six or eight threads from the last stitch, and secure it with the work as you proceed. In grounding, begin at the farthest stitch to the right, crossing the canvass from (a) to (b) the whole length of the work, and return by crossing from (c) to (n). Cross stitch on cloth, with the threads of the canvass withdrawn. This is often done to avoid the tediousness of grounding, and when executed with skill has a rich and pleasing effect. The pattern should be composed of flowers, birds, or arabesque, alone or combined. Landscapes, quadrupeds, or the human figure rarely look so well as when worked on canvass only, it being impossible to withdraw the threads from a mass of close work, and when they are left in it has a very stiff and harsh appearance The directions for worldng the stitch in nowise differ from cross stitch on canvass. Care must be taken in work- ing the stems of flowers, or single lines in any part, to put the needle straight through, and not in a slanting direction, or the stitches will be very irregular, and when the work is mounted the cloth will show between, which is a great defect. In framing, choose yom' canvass one I l_