CUR CUR [ 391 ] now the lobster or curry powder, and a good lump of fresh butter; let the whole fry seven or eight minutes ; throw in the milk of the cocoa-nut, together with a portion of the nut itself that has been rasped, and a wine-glassful of water or broth; mix it well with the curry, and let the whole simmer over a slow fire. In a few minutes put in the vegetables and tomatoes, and let the curry continue to simmer until it is done. If yoa have no tomatoes * squeeze in the juice of half a lemon -^'lien the curry is nearly done. The crawfish curry is prepared in the same manner. To make prawn curry the fish must be ob- tained raw, which is very difficult in London. The process is exactly the same as in making lobster curry. In other fish curries the fish must be raw and cut into small fillets. To curry meat the process is somewhat longer, though essentially the same. The meat must be cut into small bits and browned in the stew- pan before it is mixed with the curry powder. The addition of vegetables is always an im- provement, and cucumber or vegetable marrow will be found the best. A curry may he made entirely of vegetahles. Cauliflowers, broccoli, French beans, cabbage, and even potatoes may be used for this purpose ; but a couple of tlie large mild green capsicums should be added, as they considerably enhance the flavour of the other vegetables. One of the greatest delicacies among the curry tribe is the oyster curry, a dish more especially celebrated at Madras. This delicacy is prepared by draining the oysters before tl-ey are mixed with the curry powder, and using instead of water the liquor that they yield. The rest of the process is the same as for other curry, though the cocoa-nut may be omitted at the discretion of the cook. The cocoa-nut is an improvement to every curry, but is less needed in this than in any other. To the oyster we may add the muscle curry, which is dressed much in the same way, only the muscles must be put on the fire with a little water to open them, and the liquor they yield must be used instead of water. In separating the muscles from the shells great care must be taken to remove the little crabs often found in the muscles, as they are poisonous. One of the most essential accompaniments to good curry is good rice properly boiled—a consummation very seldom effected in this country. There is much talk about Patna rice, not one grain of which is ever really sold in London. The common Bengal rice, prepared for foreign consumption, or the store rice, is hard, tasteless, and unpalatable. The best rice to be had in London is the American rice, brought hither in the husk or in paddy, as it is termed, and cleansed by a new process. It must be boiled in the following manner :—Wash it well in cold water, and dry it in a clean napkin or tablecloth; boil some water with a little salt in it; strew the rice into the boiling water, and when it begins to swell check the boiling with a tea-cupful of cold water, and con- tinue to do so as it boils up until the rice is cracked. Before it begins to fall into pap, and while the grains are yet separate from each other, throw it into a cullender, and let it dry before the fire. It will then be fit for the table. CURRY. Cut fowls or rabbits into joints, and wash them clean ; put 2 ozs. of butter into a stewpan. When it is melted put in the meat and two middling-sized onions sliced; let them ba over a smart fire till they are of a light brown colour, and then put in half a pint of broth ; let it simmer twenty minutes. Putin a basin one or two table-spoonsful of curry powder, a tea-spoonful of flour, and a tea-spoonful of salt; mix it smoothly with a little cold watei', put it into the stewpan, and shake it well about till it boils : let it simmer twenty minutes longer, then take out the meat, and rub the sauce through a tamis, or sieve ; add to it two table-spoonsful of cream or milk, and give it a boil up; then pour it into a dish, lay the rneat over it, and send up the rice in a separate dish. CURRY BALLS. Beat up the yolk of a hard egg with a small piece of butter, season it with curry powder, mix it with bread crumbs, and, having made as many balls as yoa require, boil them a minute or two before you make use of them. CURRY POWDER. Take 13 ozs. of cori- ander seed, 2 ozs. of black pepper, 1 oz. of Cayenne pepper, 3 ozs. of cumin seed, and 6 ozs. of pale-coloured turmeric, the whole pounded very line; set them to dry perfectly before the fire, turning them frequently ; mix them well, and when cold put it into bottles, and if kept in a dry place it will continue good for years. CURRY SAUCE. Put J lb. of butter into a saucepan, with a tea-spoonful of safi'ron in powder and five small pimentos crushed ; make your butter quite hot, and then add five large spoonsful of veloute; stir the sauce well, and serve it without either skimming or straining. A little grated nutmeg may also be added. CURRY SOUP. Take a large fowl or two chickens, and cut them into joints ; mince two lai'ge onions, and fry them with the fowl in a little fresh butter in a stewpan. Have the soup ready, and fill up the pan sufficiently for a tureen ; mix two table-spoonsful of curry and two of flour with a little cold soup; add to it the other soup, with some cold rice, and let all stew