cow -COW [ 363 ] COW-HEEL, BOILED. Boil a cow-heel very gently in a large saucepan of soft water, ■with nearly a quart of milk, some salt, and four or five large onions. When very tender the cow-heel will be done enough. Serve with the onions. COW-HEEL, SAUCE FOR. Take a table- spoonful of garlic vinegar, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, the same quantity of brown sugar, and as much black pepper. Stir the whole into half a pint of butter melted to oil. COW-HEEL SOUP. Take 6 lbs. of mutton, 5 lbs. of beef, and 4 lbs. of veal (the coarsest pieces will do); cut them across with a knife ; put them into a pot, with an old fowl beaten to pieces, and the knuckle part of a ham. Let them stew without any liquor over a very slow fire, but take care they do not burn to the pot. When they begin to stick to the bottom stir them about, and then put in some good beef broth that has been well skimmed from the fat; put in some turnips, carrots, celery cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bay leaf; add some clear broth, and let it stew about an hour. While this is doing take a cow-heel, split it, and set it on the fire to boil in some of the same broth. When it is very tender take it off, and set on a stew- pan, with some crusts of bread and some more broth; let them soak for eight or ten minutes. When the soup is stewed enough lay the crust in a tureen, the two halves of the cow-heel upon them, and then pour on the soup, which will be very rich and good. COW POX is sometimes communicated casually, but more often by inoculation. The symptoms of casual cow pox, after some appearance of eruption, are sensation of tender- ness and swelling of the glands of the armpit. There are also symptoms resembling those of inflammatory fever, more or less urgent, con- tinuing from one to three or four days. The pustules, which are circular, somewhat resem- bling a wart, are depressed in the middle, and of a bluish hue. They are also surrounded with considerable redness. The matter they contain, though at first thin and colourless, ultimately inclines to yellow, and becomes some- what purulent. The eruption usually appears on the hands and wrists. "Though severe in the part affected, it is never general as in the small pox. It is, nevertheless, occasionally formed on parts which come in contact with the hands, such, for instance, as the nostrils and lips, or those unprotected with an outer skin. The pustules, which continue for some time, usually leave sores healing with difficulty. The cause is infectious matter acting by im- mediate contact, derived fi-om pustules of a palish blue infesting the udders and nipples of cows. This disease, which has been found to prevent the small pox, is sufficiently distinguished from it by the circular wart-like pustules depressed in the middle. Though delirium may occasionally attend the urgency of the febrile symptoms, a fatal termina- tion has never been known to take place. The casual cow pox requires vegetable diet, diluting liquids, cold exposure, together with some lessening of exercise and of the other natural powers. Recourse may be had to simple purgatives. The treatment of the subsequent sores is by common dressing. Vaccine Inoculation. The first appear- ance after the insertion of vaccine matter is a small inflamed spot. This is perceptible the third day on the part receiving the infection, and continues to increase in size ; it also becomes hard. A small circular tumour at length form- ing is elevated above the skin. About the sixth day the centre of the tumour shows a discoloured speck. This arises from a fluid, which gradually increases. The vesicle inclosing it continues to fill until about the tenth day. After the eighth day the pustule is completely formed, the effects ou tlie constitution now becoming more or less perceptible. Slight tokens of fever are commonly preceded by pain in the armpit. Tl>e febrile symptoms, should any such arise, continuing one or two days, ultimately disappear. During or subsequent to the general affection the pustule in the arm is surrounded with a circular inflamed margin, being a proof that the body is sufficiently influenced. After that period the fluid in the pustule gradually dries up. The surrounding redness, too, becoming fainter in a day or two, imperceptibly vanishes. Though the pustule ceases to enlarge, on its surface a hard scab of a brownish colour is formed, which, if not pulled off, remains nearly fourteen days. It at length departs, leaving on the skin little or no vestige. There are various modes of inserting the cow- pox matter. This, which is usually derived from the pustules of a person infected with it, should be transparent. It ought not to be taken later than the ninth day. It may be preserved on glass, on a cotton thread, or on a quill or ivory lancet. Should the cotton thread be used a small scratch on the outer skin must be made on that part of the arm whei'e inoculation for the small pox is performed. A piece of thread may be placed on it. The thread should be re- tained by sticking-plaster. If matter preserved on a quill, glass, or lancet be inserted, the outer skin when raised is afterwards to be pressed down. On withdrawing the object the opera- tion is finished. Tlie still more sure method is by matter taken