[ 160 J BRE BRE in hfllf a tea-cupful of milk, makes them remark- ably good. BREAD ROLLS (Brf.ntforb). Mix with Q lbs. of flour a little salt, 2 ozs. of sifted sugar, 4 ozs. of butter, and 2 eggs beaten, witli 2 spoons- ful of yeast, and about 1 pint of milk. Knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make 12 rolls, butter tin plates, and set them before the fire to rise till they become of a proper size; then bake half an hour. BREAD ROLLS (French). Rub 1 oz. of butter into 1 lb. of flour; mix 1 egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk as will make a dough of a middling stiffness. Beat it well, but do not knead; let it rise, and bake on tins. BREAD ROLLS (Potato). Boil 3 lbs. of potatoes, bruise and work them with 2 ozs. of butter, and as much milk as will make them pass through a cullender. Take ^ pint or f pint of yeast, and ^ pint of warm water, mix with the potatoes, then pour the whole upon 6 lbs. of flour, and add some salt. Knead it well: if not of a proper consistence, put a little more milk and warm water; let it stand before the fire an hour to rise ; work it well, and make into rolls. Bake about half an hour in an oven not quite so hot as for bread. They eat well toasted and but- tered. BREAD SAUCE. Put a small tea-cupful of bread-crumbs into a stewpan, pour on them as much milk as they will soak up, and a little more; or, instead of the milk, take the giblets, head, neck, legs, &c., of the poultry, or game, and stew them and moisten the bread with this liquor; put it on the fire with a middling-sized onion, and a dozen berries of pepper, or allspice, or a little mace. Let it boil, stir it well, and let it simmer till it is quite stiff, and then put to it about 2 table-spoonsful of cream or melted butter, or a little good broth ; take out the onion and pepper and it is ready. BREAD SIPPETS (Fried). Cut a slice of bread about J inch thick, divide it with a sharp knife into pieces 2 inches square; shape these into triangles or crosses ; put some very clean fat into an iron frying-pan. When it is hot put in the sippets and fry them a delicate light brown ; take them up with a fish-slice and drain them well from fat, turning them occasionally : this will take a quarter of an hour. Keep the pan at such a distance from the fire that the fat may be hot enough to brown without burning : this is a requisite precaution in frying delicate thin things. These are a pretty garnish, and very welcome accompaniment and improvement to the finest made dishes. They may also be sent up with pea and other soups; but when intended for soups the bread must be cut into bits about ^ inch square. BREAD, UNFERMENTED. We have repeatedly partaken, in different families, of un- fermented bread; but we feel bound to say we have never yet met with any that we found equal, in lightness, sweetness, or apparent digestibility or wholesomeness,to well-made fermented bread. However, to satisfy the curious, and such as may like to try the experiment, we transcribe the two following recipes from a publication entitled " In- structions for Making Unfermented Bread : "— To make White Bread. Take of flour, dressed or households, 3 lbs. avoirdupois; bi- carbonate of soda, in powder, 9 drachms, apothe- caries' weight ; hydrochloric (muriatic) acid (specific gravity I'l 6), 11| drachms fluid; water, about 25 ozs. fluid. To make Bro™ Bread. Take of wheaten meal, 3 lbs. avoirdupois; bicarbonate of soda, in powder, 10 drachms, apothecaries' weight; hy- drochloric (muriatic) acid (specific gravity ]"16), 12| drachms fluid; water, about 25ozs. fluid. First, mix the soda and the flour as thoroughly as possible. This is best done by shaking the soda from a small sieve over the flour with one hand, while the flour is stirred with the other, and then passing the mixture once or twice through the sieve. Next, pour the acid into the water, and diffuse it perfectly, by stirring them well together with a rod of glass or wood. Then, mix intimately the flour and the water so pre- pared as speedily as possible, using a wooden spoon or spatula for the purpose. The dough thus formed will make 2 loaves somewhat larger than half-quarterns. They should be put into a quick oven without loss of time. Muriatic acid, it may be remarked, is the spirit of salt of commerce. Combined with soda, which is the basis of common salt, and thus mixed in bread, it is perfectly wholesome. BREAKFAST. This, the first meal of the day, after some hours of rest, and to recommence the labours of the stomach, deserves more cir- cumspection than it usually receives. Habit has rendered tea or coffee and bread and butter almost synonymous with the word breakfast, but there is no doubt that those suffei'ing from weak digestion would find gruel or beef tea less productive of dyspepsia and its evils than either of the usual beverages at this meal. Those of stronger digestion would do well to consider the following recommendation:—Breakfast, not later than eight o'clock, ought, in rigid training, to consist of plain biscuit (not bread), broiled beef- steaks or mutton-chops, underdone, without any fat, and half a pint of mild bottled ale—the genuine Scotch ale is the best. Our fair readers will not demur at this, when they are told that this was the regular breakfast of Queen Eliza- beth and Lady Jane Grey. But should it be found too strong fai'e at the commencement, we