] [ SS8 CHI CHI the chickens, and separated them from the parsley, &c., lay the legs on the lettuce leaves en couronne, in the centre of which place the ■\vings; on the legs put the rumps and two of the breasts ; on these the fillets as closely as possible, laying them alternately flat and up- right ; on the top of the fillets the two breasts that remain. Be careful in keeping this dish as high and upright as possible. Cut the hard eggs each into eight pieces, put them round the dish as a border, and between every piece up- right place a lettuce heai't, and on the top of all lay half of an egg with the lettuce heart in the middle. Then mix together a good pinch of chervil, some tarragon and pimpernel leaves, scalded and shred small, salt, pepper, oil, ravi- gotte vinegar, and a spoonful of aspic jelly. Amalgamate the whole well, and pour over it CHICKEN SAUSAGES. Make two farces, one of bread crumbs, roasted breast of fowl, calf's udder, marrow, baked onions, parsley, shallots, and mushrooms, all chopped very fine, mixed together with a spoonful of brandy, a little cream, and the yolks of 5 eggs. Make the other of scalded sweetbreads, livers, and mushrooms, and season both with spices, salt, and pepper. Split a couple of chickens through the backbone, and lay in each half some of the first-mentioned farce; roll them up, tie, and braise them with a glass of white wine, the same of stock, and some bacon. When done let them cool; then put the rest of the farce round them, wrap them in caul, dip them in whites of eggs, strew bread crumbs over, and bake them. Strain, and mix some cuUis and lemon-juice with the liquor in which the chickens were braised, and serve it with them. CHICKEN SCALLOPS (with Cucumbers). Cut scallops from the fillets of four chickens, put them into a pan with some clarified butter, sprinkle them with salt, and serve them with the following sauce:—Pare and slice some green cucumbers, and lay the larger slices, having taken out the seeds (such as are the size of half a crown), in salt and vinegar for a little while; then drain them on a clean cloth, and let them stew gently with some sauce tournee, a small bit of sugar, and a little salt. When done drain them again. In the meantime mince a few cucumbers, and put them, with the parings, into butter, and sweat them till melted. Mix this with the slices, and boil them gently till all the butter is extracted; then reduce it, mix it with some bechamel, and strain it through a tammy. When the scallops are wanted toss them up over a stove, drain the butter, add a little cream, and put them into the sauce. Garnish with the cucumbers drained. CHICKEN WATER. Take a cock or large fowl, and flay it; then bruise it with a hammer, and put it into a gallon of water, with a crust of bread. Let it boil half away, and strain it off". CHICKENS. Chickens, if they have been pulled dry, will be stiff when new; but when stale they will be limber, and their vents appear green. If they have been scalded or pulled wet, on rubbing the breast with the finger and thumb you will ascertain whether they are new by their feeling rough and stiff, whereas if they are smooth and slippery it is a sign that they are stale. A young capon may be known by the smoothness of the legs, and the shortness and bluntness of the spurs. A true capon is ascertained by a fat vein on the side of the breast, a thick belly and rump, and a short and pale comb. If it be new it will have a close, hard vent; but if stale the vent will be open and loose. CHICKENS (Scotch way). Cut your chickens into quarters; put them into a sauce- pan with only just water enough to cover them, a bunch of parsley, some chopped parsley, and a little mace ; cover them closely down. When it boils add six eggs well beaten. When the chickens are done take out the parsley, and serve them in a deep dish with the sauce. CHICKENS: To Boil. After you have drawn them lay them in skimmed milk for two hours, and truss them. When you have properly singed and dusted them with flour cover them closely in cold water, and set them over a slow fire. Having taken off the scum, and boiled them slowly five or six minutes, take them off the fire, and keep them closely covered for half an hour in water, which will do them sufficiently, and make them plump and white. Before you dish them set them on the fire to heat; then drain them, and pour over them white sauce, which you must have made ready in the following man- ner :—Take the heads and necks of the chickens, with a small bit of scrag of veal, or any scrags of mutton you may have by you, and put them into a saucepan, with a blade or two of mace and a few black peppercorns, an anchovy, a head of celery, a slice off the end of a lemon, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put to these a quart of water, cover it closely, and let it boil till it is reduced to half a pint. Then strain it, and thicken it with J lb. of butter mixed with flour, and boil it five or six minutes. Then put in 2 spoonsful of mushrooms, and mix the yolks of 2 eggs with 1 tea-cupful of cream and a little nutmeg grated. Put in your sauce, and keep shaking it over the fire till it is near boiling; then pour it into your boats, and serve it up with your chickens. CHICKENS : To Broil. Slit your chickens down the back, season them with pepper and