BUT t 18T ] BUT milk, and as much flour as it will liquefy; add the butter in pieces, and keep turning it round in one direction, and in one direction only, till perfectly smooth: this -will save the trouble of rubbing flour and butter together for each sauce, and waiting for its cooking; and, with glaze-stock and cream, willeuable the cook, in a short time, to serve as many different sauces as she may have occasion for:— Dust a little flour over Jib. of butter; put it into a saucepan with about a wine-glassful of water; stir it one way constantly till it is melted, and let it just boil (a round wooden stick is the best thing to stir butter with in melting). If the butter is to be melted with cream, use the same proportion as of water, but no flour; stir it con- stantly, and heat it thoroughly, but do not let it boil. To oil butter, cut about i lb into slices ; put it into a small jar, and place it in a pan of boiling water. When oiled pour it off clear from the sediment. BUTTER, MELTED (French). Mix in a stewpan, with :|lb. of fresh butter, 1 table-spoon- ful of flour, a little salt, i gill of water, i spoonful of white vinegar, and a little grated nutmeg. Put it on the fire, stir it, and let it thicken, but do not allow it to boil, lest it should taste of the flour. BUTTER, MELTED (with Water). Break the butter into small lumps with as much water as will make it the richness required, from ^ gill to 1 pint to 1 lb.; dust in the flour; the more flour the more water required ; turn it one way till perfectly smooth and the flour well cooked, as nothing is so bad in sauce as ill-cooked flour. Should the butter oil, which will happen either from inattention or from being ill washed, it must be again put upon the fire, and well worked by lifting it with the spoon and letting it fall, —what the French call vanner. This must be done at the moment of serving, as it will soon return to oil. BUTTER, MONTPELIER. Put the yolks of 12 hard eggs into a mortar with I scalded green shallot, 6 anchovies, a handful of capers picked and washed, 6 pickled cucumbers, some pepper and salt. Pound all these well together until they form a paste ; then add the yolks of S raw eggs, bruising them with a pestle, and then gradually pour upon and mix with your ingredients 1^ lb. of oil of olives, and a little vinegar, until the whole becomes of the con- sistence of new butter; then pass it through a sieve. If your butter is not sufficiently green yoix must add a little spinach-juice. Montpelier butter is commonly used for cold entrees. A little garlic may be added according to taste. BUTTER MOULD. The wooden stamps for forming small pats of butter are well known. One represents a swan, the butter moulded in •which will keep itself erect upon the water in the butter-glass or dish. The mould is usually made of box-wood, and may be purchased at the turner's. In using it the interior should bo wetted with cold water; the butter next pressed in, the mould then opened, and the perfect swan taken out, and set upon a flat piece of butter, to keep it upright in the water, when it forms a very pretty table ornament. BUTTER, ORANGE. Peel 6 oranges and boil the skins till they are clear; pound and rub them through a sieve; beat the yolks of 20 eggs and 4 whites ; put them into 2 quarts of boiling cream; stir it one way till it comes to a curd. Strain, beat it in a mortal", and put in as much orange-rind as will give it a sufficient relish, and sweeten it; put it in a mould or in small pots. This may be made of artificial cream, and baked as cheesecakes, adding wine or brandy. BUTTER AND PARSLEY. Wash some parsley very clean, and pick it carefully leaf by leaf; put a tea-spoonful of salt into half a pint of boiling water; boil the parsley about ten minutes ; drain it on a sieve; mince it quite fine and then bruise it to a pulp. The delicacy and excellence of this elegant and innocent relish depends upon the parsley being minced very fine; put it into a sauce-boat, and mix with it by degrees about half a pint of good melted butter, only do not put so much flour to it, as the parsley will add to its thickness. Never pour parsley and butter over boiled things, but send it up in a boat. BUTTER, PICKLE FOR. To 3 gallons of water add 4|- lbs. of good brown sugar, 1^ oz. of saltpetre, 1 oz. of carbonate of pot- ass ; put them into an iron pot and let them come to a boil; take off the scum; when cold it is ready for use. The butter should be salted in the usual way and well worked; then made into rolls of 2 lbs. or 3 lbs. each. Have little bags of coarse muslin ; tie each roll in a bag and put them in a large stone jar or clean firkin; when the pickle is entirely cold pour it over and put a plate on the top, with a weight on it to keep the butter under; tie it up close and keep it in a cold place. When a roll is wanted take it out of the bag and slice it off for table use. It should be put on little plates, and each covered with a saucer to exclude the air. If the butter is good when put up in the fall, it will keep till you can get grass butter in the spring. The jars for this purpose should not have been previously used for pickles. BUTTER, PRESERVED. Take 2 parts of the best common salt, 1 part of good loaf sugar, and 1 part saltpetre; beat them well together. To 16ozs. of butter, thoroughly cleansed from the milk, put 1 oz. of the above composition ; work it well, and put it in pots when quite firm and cold.