BAT BAT [ 73 ] it; then add the hergamot and the rose water, previously warmed, graduall}^ and stir the whole until cold. To be rubbed upon the parts where the eruption appears. BATEMAN'S PECTORAL DROPS are composed chiefly of tincture of castor, i oz., with the addition of paregoric, 1 oz.; lauda- num, J oz.; oil of anise, 3 drops; and tincture of cochineal, for colouring, | drachm. A tea- spoonful to be talien occasionally when the cough is troublesome. BATES'S ALUM WATER. This is the compound solution of alum of the London " Pharmacopoeia," formed by dissolving J oz. of alum and the same quantity of white vitriol (sulphate of zinc) in 1 pint of boiling water, and when cold filtering it through blotting-paper. It is used for cleansing and healing ulcers and wounds, and for removing eruptions on the skin, by bathing the part with it hot three or four times a day. It is also used to bathe weak eyes, being very bracing. BATES'S ANODYNE BALSAM is formed by mixing together 1 oz. of opodeldoc (compound soap liniment) and J oz. of laudanum. It resem- bles the anodyne liniment of the Dublin " Phar- macopoeia." It is useful in removing pain by rubbing it strongly on the part affected. BATH : Alkaline. Carbonate of soda, 12ozs.; water, 65 gallons. Antimonial. Tartrate of potash and anti- mony, I oz. or 2 ozs.; water, 65 gallons. Used for skin diseases and lumbago. Aromatic. Boil in 1| gallon of water 4 ozs. of the dried tops of each of the following herbs : hyssop, lavender, pennyroyal, peppermint, rose- mary, sage, thyme, and wormwood. Strain the liquor and add it to 50 gallons of water. Used in rheumatism, diarrhoea, &c. Astwngent. Alum in powder, \ lb.; water, 25 gallons. Bran. Boil 4 lbs. of bran in 2 gallons of water; strain, and add 50 gallons of water of sufficient heat to be at 90° when the patient bathes. Ex- cellent as an emollient in severe colds, &c. Hemlock. Dried herb of hemlock, 2 ozs.; water, 1 gallon. After soaking for eight hours, strain, and bathe, at a temperature of 90°, the part diseased. Useful in some diseases of the skin. NiTRO-MTJRiATic AciD. One pound of nitric acid ; 1^ lb. of hydrochloric acid ; water, at 90°, 40 gallons. Immerse the patient for fifteen minutes. Used in liver complaints, gall stones, &c. Used daily for a fortnight or three weeks. Sea-Water, Dissolve in each gallon of water, 2>\ ozs. of common salt; l|oz. of glauber salt (sulphate of soda); \ oz. oi chloride of cal- cium ; and oz. of chloride of magnesium. Sulphuretted. Dissolve 4 ozs. of sulphuret of potash in 1 pint of water; add it to 60 gallons of water and 1 oz. fluid of sulphuric acid. For children half the above quantities to 60 gallons of water. Useful in various skin diseases. BATH BRICKS, used for scouring bright, coarse metallic articles, are composed of flinty or silicious sand very finely divided. These bricks are made of a dejiosit of clay and sand found in the bed of the river Parret, at Bridgewater, in Somersetshire, and form an important article of local trade. They were formerly secured by patent, but are now manu- factured by several makers. This sand has also clay in its composition just sufficient to cause the sand to hold together in the form of a brick, when wetted and moulded, without being burnt. For cleaning knives it is best used dry, but for scouring brass it may be used damped. When mahogany furniture is very dirty from long neglect and bad treatment, rub oil over the furniture with a bit of flannel or a small painting-brush. It must be cold- drawn linseed oil. Then put some brickdust into the leg of a fine old worsted stocking, free from holes; tie the stocking at each end, leaving the brickdust rather loose in the middle, and shake the dust over the oiled furniture ; then take a piece of soft carpeting or woollen cloth, and rub the furniture for a long time, with the grain of the wood, occasionally repeating the oil and brickdust, till the furniture is perfectly clean; then clear off the remains, if any, of the oil and brickdust, and, with a piece of clean flannel, or another piece of clean, soft carpeting, and a handful or two of bran, in a very short time a beautiful and durable polish will be obtained that will not soil by the touch. BATH BUNS (1). Take 2 lbs. of flour, 1 pint of ale yeast, with a glass of mountain wine, and a little orange-flower water, and 3 beaten eggs; knead the whole with some warm cream, a little nutmeg, and some salt; let it rise before the fire, and then knead in 1 lb. of butter, and as much caraway comfits. Make the whole into buns, and bake them on floured papers in a quick oven. BATH BUNS (2). Rub together with the hand 1 lb. of fine flour and |- lb. of butter ; beat 6 eggs, and add them to the flour with a table- spoonful of good yeast. Mix them altogether with a tea-cupful of milk ; set it in a warm place for an hour; mix in 6 ozs. of sifted sugar and a few caraway seeds. Make them into buns with a table-spoon on a baking-plate; throw six or eight caraway comfits on each, and bake in a hot oven about ten minutes. These quan- tities should make eighteen buns. BATH WATERS. These arise from various springs situated at Bath, in Somersetshire, and for the following particulars we are indebted to Dr. Mackenzie