DRO DRO [ 431 ] DROP CAKES (1). Take three ej^gs, leaving out one white, and heat them in a pint howl just enough; then fill the bowl quite full of milk, and stir in enough flour to make a thick but not stiff batter ; bake in earthen cups in a quick oven. This is an excellent recipe, and the "just enough" heating for eggs can onlv be determined by experience. DROP CAKES (-2). Take one quart of flour, five eggs, three-fourths of a pint of milk, and one-fourth of a pint of cream, with a large spoonful of sifted sugar and a tea-spoonful of salt; mix these well together. If the cream should be sour add a little saleratiis. If all milk is used melt a dessert-spoonful of butter in the milk. To be baked iu cups in the oven thirtv or forty minutes. DROPS, ACID. Boil clarified sugar to crack, and pour it on an oiled marble stone; pound some tartaric or citric acid to a fine powder, and strew over it about J oz. or | o/. of the former, ac- cording to its quality, and less of the latter, to 7 lbs. of sugar; turn the edges over into the middle, and mix the acid by folding it over, or by working it in a similar manner as dough is moulded, but do not pull it; put it in a tin rubbed over with oil or butter, and place it under the stove to keep warm ; then cut off a small piece at a time, and roll it into a round pipe; cut it up in small pieces the size of drops with shears, and let your assistant roll them round under his hand and flatten them. Mix them with j^owder sugar, sift them from it, and keep them in boxes or glasses. When flavoured with lemon they are called lemon acid drops; with otto of roses, rose acid drops. DROPS, BARLEY SUGAR. Put the sugar into a pan wiih a very small spout, and drop it on the slab, managing it with a wooden pointer; sift fine sugar over to keep it from sticking, and wrap the drops in separate papers. DROPS, CHOCOLATE. Take 1 lb. of sugar and 1 oz. of chocolate; scrape the chocolate to a powder, and mix it with tlie sugar in coarse grains ; moisten with clean water, but do not mix more than can be dropped out whilst warm at one time. If any I'eniains in the pot it will grease the next you make, and will not attain the consistence required. DROPS, CINNAMON. Take 1 oz. of cinna- mon and 1 lb. of sugar ; pulverise the cinnamon, and sift it through a lawn sieve ; mix it with the sugar, and add two or three drops of the essen- tial oil. If the flavour is not strong enough moisten it with water, and proceed as before. The flavour may be given with the essential oil only, colouring them with bole ammoniac. DROPS. COFFEE. Take 1 oz. of coffee and 1 lb. of sugar; make a strong and cleaf infusion of coffee, and use it to moisten the sugar. Make the drops as above. DROPS, GINGER. Beat in a marble mortar I oz. of candied orange-peel, with some lump sugar, and when it is smooth like paste add ^ lb. more of the same kind of sugar, and ^ oz. of powdered ginger; then dissolve the sugar in a little water, boil the whole to a candy, and drop it off from the point of a knife on writing paper. When cold put them into boxes. DROPS, LEMON. Grate three lemons with a piece of double retined sugar; then scrape it off upon a plate, and add half a tea-spoonful of flour; mix the whole well, and beat it to a paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, and, having laid it on a tin plate, put it into a moderate oven. DROPS, PEPPERMINT. These are made by finely sifting some powdered loaf sugar into just lemon juice enough to make it projterly thick, and then drying it over the fire for a few minutes, stirring in about fifteen drops of oil of peppermint to each ounce of sugar. Some, in- stead of lemon juice, mix the sugar and oil of peppermint with the whites of eggs, beating the whole together, dropping it on wli'te paper, and afterwards drying the drops gradually be- fore the fire. DROPS, RASPBERRY. Mnsh a handful of raspberries, put them in a very little water, boil, and strain through a flannel Img ; take ^ lb. of finely sifted sugar, and wet it with raspl)erry juice, with twenty drops of the spirit of vitriol ; make it liot over the fire, but do not let it boil, and drop it from the point of a kniJ'e upon paper. DROPS, RATAFIA. Blanch and beat in a mortar 4 ozs. of bitter and half as many sweet almonds, with a little pounded sugar sifted with some more sugar, and the whites of two eggs; make a paste, of wliich put some little balls in white paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. DROPS, ROSE. Reduce to an impal- pable powder, and sift it carefully, ^ oz. of dried red roses ; mix with tiiem 1 lb. of the finest-sifted double-refined sugar, add as much lemon juice as will make it into a stiff paste, , and heat it over the fire until the whole mass is scalding hot. Drop it on paper, and sefit near the fire till the next day. DROPS, SPICE. These may be made ' with either cloves, ginger, mace, allspice, cin- namon, Jamaica pep(ie)-, common pepper, or Cayenne. Boil in a quarter of a pint of any white wine two drachms of either of the above articles in powder, keep the vessel closely ppvered, then strain the liquor, and mix with