[ G24 3 COD COG grate thetn as finely as possible. Lay the grated cocoa-nut in well-formed heaps on a large hand- some dish. It will require no cooking. The heaps should be about the circumference of a dollar, and must not touch each other. Flatten them down in the middle, so as to make a hollow in the centre of each heap, and upon this pile some very nice sweetmeat. Make an excellent whipped cream, well sweetened and flavoured with lemon and wine, and beat it to a stiff froth. Pile some of this cream high upon each cake over the sweetmeats. If on a supper table you may arrange them in circles round a glass stand. COCOA-NUT SOUP. Take 8 calves' feet (two sets) that have been scalded and scraped, but not skinned, and put them into a soup kettle, with 6 or 7 blades of mace and the yellow rind of a lemon pared thin. Pour on a gallon of water, cover the kettle, and let it boil very slowly, skimming it well, till the flesh is reduced to rags, and has dropped entirely from the bones; then strain it into a broad white-ware pan, and set it away to get cold. When it has congealed scrape off the fat and sediment, cut up the cake of jelly or stock, and put it into a clean porce- lain or enamelled kettle. Have ready ^ lb. of very finely grated cocoa-nut, and mix it with 1 pint of cream. If you cannot obtain cream take rich unskimmed milk, and add to it 3 ozs. of the best fresh butter divided into three parts, each bit rolled in arrowroot or rice flour. Mix it gradually with the cocoa-nut, and add it to the calves' feet stock in the kettle, seasoned with half a nutmeg. Set it over the fire, and boil it slowly about a quarter of an hour, stirring it well; then transfer it to a tureen, and serve it up. Have ready small French i-oUs or light milk biscuits to eat with it; also powder sugar, in case any of the company should wish to sweeten it. COCOA-NUT SWEETMEAT. Cut the nut out of the shell, pare it carefully, and throw it into cold water ; then grate it, and boil it in clarified sugar (1 lb. to each pound of cocoa-nut) until quite thick;» stir it frequently to prevent its burning. Then pour it on a well-buttered dish or marble slab, and cut it into whatever forms you think proper. COCOA-NUT TART. Blanch and beat ^ lb. of cocoa-nut with orange-flower water, 1 or 2 musk plums, cinnamon, ginger, and sugar; beat the yolks of 10-eggs, and thicken them over the fire with 1 pint of cream or milk; mix all together with some grated Naples biscuit; put it in a dish lined with paste, and when baked stick it over with cocoa-nut cut in fillets. COCOTTES. Take a number of small cups, and put in each a small piece of butter; break a new-laid egg in every cup: season them with pepper and salt; set them over hot ashes, and pass a salamander over the top. COD. A cod-fish should be firm and white, the gills red, and the eye lively. A fine fish is very thick about the neck. If the flesh is at all flabby it is not good. Those which come from the Dogger Bank are reckoned the best. Cod is in its prime duriug the months of October and November if the weather is cold. From the latter end of March to May cod is also very fine. The length of time it requires boiling depends on the size of the fish, which varies from 1 lb. to 20 lbs. A small fish about 2 or 3 lbs. weight will be sufficiently boiled in a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes after the water boils. Prepare a cod for dressing in the following manner:—Empty and wash it thoroughly; scrape off all the scales ; cut open the belly, and wash and dry it well; rub a little salt inside, or lay it for an hour in strong brine. The most simple way of dressing it is as follows :—Tie up the head, and put it into a fish kettle with plenty of water and salt in it; boil it gently, and serve it with oyster sauce. Lay a napkin under the fish, and garnish with slices of lemon, horseradish, &c. COD : To Boil. Wash and clean a cod or a part of one, and then rub some salt on the inside. If the weather will permit keep it a day or two ; then put plenty of water into the kettle, with a handful of salt, and when it is dissolved lay in the fish, which, if of a moderate size, will be done in about twenty minutes, but a large one will take half an hour. Drain it on a fish plate, and serve it up with the roe, liver, melted butter, and oyster sauce. COD, BAKED. Soak a fine piece of fresh cod in melted butter, with parsley and sweet herbs shred very finely; let it stand over the fire for some time, and then bake it. Let it be of a good colour. COD (EN Bonne Moeue). Work 3 spoons- ful of bechamel over the fire with a good bit of buttex", seasoned with pepper and salt; then put in some flakes of cold cod, stir them about in the sauce, and let them remain in the sauce till cold. Lay some fried bread round the edge of the dish, put the flakes or scallops of the cod in the centre, smooth them with a knife, strew bread crumbs over, and brown them with a salamander. Garnish your dish with toasted bread cut in different forms, and placed alternately. COD, CRIMPED. Put a gallon of spring water, with a handful of salt, into a saucepan; boil it up several times, and skim it till it is perfectly clear. Lay a middling-sized cod in some fresh pump water, and let it lie a short time, after which cut it into slices of about two inches in thickness each. Lay these in the