[ 44 ] ARS ARR If you cannot procure laurel water boil five or six bay leaves with tlie cinnamon and lemon in the milk, which will communicate the desired flavour. ARROWROOT CREAM. Mix a table- spoonful of arrowroot with a tea-cupful of water; let it settle, and pour the water off. Sweeten and boil a quart of milk with some peel of a lemon and some cinnamon; pick them out, and pour it upon boiling arrowroot, stirring it well and frequently till it be cold. Serve it in a glass or china dish, with or without grated nutmeg on the top. It may be eaten with any preserved fruit or fruit tarts. ARROWROOT PUDDING. From 1 quart of new milk take a small tea-cupful, and mix it with 2 large table-spoonsful of arrowroot. Boil the remainder of the milk, and stir it amongst the arrowroot; add, when nearly cold, 4 well- beaten yolks of eggs, with 2 ozs. of pounded loaf sugar, and the same quantity of fresh butter, broken into small bits; season with grated nutmeg. Mix it well together, and bake it in a buttered dish fifteen or twenty minutes. ARSENIC is a brilliant metal of a bluish- white colour, found, combined with copper and other metals, in Cornwall, Devonshire, and Stirlingshire, as well as in many parts of the European continent. When exposed to the air it soon combines with its oxygen, and forms arsenious acid, commonly called white arsenic, and so well known for its deadly consequences as a poison. Arsenic in its metallic state is used to alloy copper and render it of a paler colour preparatory to its being coated with silver; it is mixed with other metals to form the specula of reflecting telescopes, and with lead to form small shot, as it renders the lead more brittle and better capable of separating into globules. The oxides of arsenic are used in the manufacture of glass, rendering flint glass more clear. The white arsenic is often given in medicine, and Dr. Pearson said that in the quantity of one-sixteenth of a grain it is as harmless as a glass of wine, and in that quantity is a remedy for an inveterate ague; indeed, it is the active agent in the taste- less ague drop. It is given also in chronic diseases of the skin, and is the basis of the Tanjore pill, long celebrated in India as a specific against the bite of the cobra di capello, and other venomous snakes. During the plague in London, about two centuries since, amulets of white arsenic were suspended over the region of the heart, as a preservative against infection. Combined with sulphur in different proportions, it forms the red paint realgar, and the yellow paint orpiment. It is with white arsenic ag a poison that we are chiefly concerned in this work; and we have to consider the symptoms exhibited by those who have swallowed it, and the treatment to be adopted. For the following we are indebted to Dr. Beck's valuable work on " Medical Juris- prudence." 1. V/here death ensues between twentij-four hours and two or three days is the most common of all. The earliest symptom is siclmess or faint- ness, and this often occurs within a few minutes after the poison is swallowed. But, in a ma- jority of instances, it does not happen for half an hour. Pain in the region of the stomach succeeds, and this, most commonly, is of a burning kind, and much aggravated by pres- sure. Violent fits of vomiting and retching come on, with a dryness, heat, and tightness in the throat, creating an incessant desire for drink. Hoarseness and difficulty of speech are commonly combined with these. The matter vomited is greenish or yellowish, but sometimes it is streaked or mixed with blood, particularly if the case be protracted beyond a day. It must, however, be understood, that the affection of the throat, as above described, is not always present, while again it is some- times so severe as to be attended with fits of suffocation and convulsive vomiting at the sight of fluids. Diarrhoea generally, but not always, follows, or in its place are ineffectual attempts, and the abdomen is tense and tender, and sometimes also swollen. When the diarrhoea is severe, the rectum is commonly excoriated. Burning heat is felt at the part, and this pain will ex- tend along the whole course of the alimeutary canal. Even the mouth and lips are inflamed, and present dark specks or blisters. The lungs are also affected in these instances. Shortness of breath, tightness across the chest, and, in a few cases, actual inflammation, have been the result. There is a frequent and pain- ful micturition, and the genital organs in both sexes are painful and swollen. In one case there was a suppression of urine for several days. When the symptoms of irritation in the alimentary canal have subsided for some hours, convulsive motions often occur ; such as tremors and twitches of the trunk or the whole body; cramps of the legs and arms are also common. The pulse is feeble and rapid ; the skin cold ; clammy sweats break out, and the feet and hands are livid. The countenance betrays great anxiety; the eyes are red and sparkling; the tongue and mouth parched, and sometimes little white ulcers break out on the velum and palate. Delirium sometimes accompanies the advanced stage, and stupor also is not unfrequent. Death, in general, comes on calmly, but is sometimes preceded by a paroxysm of convulsions. In most cases, the above symptoms are more