i COL COL [ 343 ] bind it over again; put it Into au earthen pot, and pour tlie liquor your pig was boiled in upon it. Be careful to cover it closely after you cut any down for use. COLLARED SALMON. Take a side of salmon, and cut off the tail; then wash the fleshy part well, and dry it with a cloth; rub it over with the yolks of eggs, and make some forcemeat with what you cut off at the tail end; take off the skin, and put to it some parboiled oysters, a tail or two of lobsters, the yolks of three or four eggs boiled hard, six anchovies, a handful of sweet herbs chopped small, a little salt, cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and grated bread. Work all these well together with yolks of eggs, lay it over the fleshy part, and strew on it a little pepper and salt; then roll it up into a collar, and bind it with broad tape ; boil it in water, salt, and vinegar, but let the liquor boil before you put it in, and throw in a bunch of sweet herbs and some sliced ginger and nutmeg. Let it boil gently nearly two hours, and then take it up; put it into a pan, and when the pickle is cold put it to your salmon, and let it lay in it till wanted. If you cover it with clarified butter it will keep a considerable time. COLLARED VENISON. Bone a side of venison, take away all the sinews, and cut it into square collars of what size you please. It will make two or three collars. Lard it with fat bacon, and cut your lard as big as the top of your finger, and three or four inches long ; season your venison with pepper, salt, cloves, and nutmeg; roll up your collars, and tie tbem closely with coarse tape ; then put them into deep pots, with seasoning at the bottom, some fresh butter, and three or four bay leaves; put the rest of the seasoning and butter on the top, and over that some beef suet finely shred and beaten ; then cover up your pots with coarse paste, and bake them four or five hours. After that take them out of the oven, and let them stand a little ; take out your venison, and let it drain well from the gravy; add more butter to the fat, and set it over a gentle fire to clarify; then take it off, let it stand a little, and skim it well. Make your pots clean, or have pots ready fit for each collar; put a little seasoning and some of your clarified butter at the bottom ; then put in your venison, fill up your pot with clarified butter, and be sure that your butter is au inch above the meat. When it is thoroughly cold tie it down with double paper, and lay a tile on the top. They will keep good six or eight months, and you may, when you use a pot, put it for a minute into boiling water, and it will come out whole. Let it stand till it is cold, stick it round with bay leaves and a sprig at the top, and serve it up. COLLARING. One very material thing to be generally and indispensably observed in the business of collaring any kind of meat is that you roll it up well, and bind it as tightly as possible, otherwise when it is cut it will break into pieces, and its beauty be entirely lost. Be careful that you boil it enough, but not too much, and let it be quite cold before you put it into the pickle. After it has lain all night in the pickle take oS the binding, put it into a dish, and when it is cut the skiu will look clear, and the meat have its proper solidity. COLLEGE PUDDING. See Pudding. COLLOPS. Cut some veal cutlets, and fry them a good brown, but not too much ; take some good gravy, thicken it with a little flour, and boil it a few minutes; add Cayenne, cat- sup, truffles, morels, salt, mushrooms pickled, and grated lemon-peel; simmer this up, and just heat the collops through; add what gravy came from them, but do not let them boil, or they will be hard; put in forcemeat balls and hard yolks of eggs ; lay round them little slices of bacon notched and toasted, and sliced lemon. COLLOPS, BEEF. Take some rump steak, or any tender piece of beef, and cut like Scotch collops, only larger. Hack them a little with a knife, and flour them; put a little butter in a stewpan, and melt it; then put in your collops, and fry them thickly for about two minutes ; put in a pint of gravy, with a little butter rolled in flour; season with pepper and salt; cut four pickled cucumbers in thin slices, half a walnut, a few capers, and a little onions shred very finely; stew them five minutes ; then put them into a hot dish, and send them to table. You may put half a glass of white wine into it. COLLOPS OF COLD BEEF. If you have any cold inside of a sirloin of beef take off all the fat, and cut it very thin in little bits ; cut an onion very small; boil as much water or gravy as you think will do for sauce; season it with a little pepper and salt and a bundle of sweet herbs. Let the water boil, shake it round, and stir it. When the sauce is thick and the meat done take out the sweet herbs, and pour it into your dish. It does better than fresh meat. COLLOPS A LA BECHAMEL. Soak a slice of ham, with a bit of butter, chopped parsley, shallots, and half an bay leaf; simmer these on a slow fire about a quarter of an hour; then add a spoonful of good cullis, as much cream, and a little flour and pepper; reduce the liquor till quite thick, and strain it in a sieve. Cut the breasts of roasted poultry into small bits; put the meat into the sauce, with the yolk of one egg, and give tliem a few boilings together; cut also thin bits of paste to what form you please ; put this ragout between two pieces, pinch all round to secure the sauce, and fry them of a fine brown colour.