CAN CAN [ 223 ] preserving-pan. If for syrup, add 1 pint of cold water to each pound; if for candying, 2 wine- glassesful to the pound will be sufficient. Seat the white of an egg, add it to the water, mix it well, and pour it over the sugar—1 egg is enough for 12 lbs. of sugar if it is fine, or 2 if it is coarse. When the sugar is nearly melted stir it well, and put it over a gentle fire. Do not stir it after the scum begins to rise. Let it boil five minutes, take it off the fire, let it stand a minute or two, and then take the scum carefully off. Put the pan again on the fire, and, when the syrup begins to boil, throw it in a little cold water, which should be kept back for the purpose. Boil till the scum rises, draw it off the fire, and skim it as before; repeat this till quite clear, and it is then fit for use. It is by long boiling that the different degrees are acquired which the confectioner re- quires {see Clarifying). A simple method of candying is to lay some fruits from syrup into a clean sieve, to dip it quickly into hot water, and then put the fruit into_ a fine cloth to drain; sift over it refined sugar, and dry on sieves in a moderate oven. A little powdered alum dis- solved in water, and put into the syrup of pre- serves, when a full quantity of sugar, will some- times prevent their candying. The only secret in storing preserves is to exclude the air from them, and to set them in a dry place, not placing the pots on each other. All fruits for preserving should be gathered in dry weather; but as tl)is is not always practicable, much inconvenience may be obviated by boiling the fruit for jellies and jams long before the sugar is added. By so doing the watery particles will evaporate, and the presei-ve will be better flavoured by the sugar not being too long on the fire. Fruit intended for candying must be first preserved and dried in a stove before the fire, that none of the syrup may remain in it. Sugar intended for the use of candying must be thus prepared :—Put into a tossing-pan 1 lb. of sugar, with ^ pint of v/ater, and set it over a very clear fire. Take off the scum as it rises ; boil it till it looks clear and fine, and take out a little in a silver spoon. When it is cold, if it will draw a thread from your spoon, it is boiled enough for any kind of sweetmeat. Then boil your syrup, and, when it begins to candy round the edge of your pan, it is candy height. It is a great mistake to put any kind of sweetmeat into too thick a syrup, especially at the first, as it withers the fruit, and both the beauty and the flavour are thereby destroyed. CANDIED ALMONDS. Blanch lib. of the best almonds, and Cut them very thin length- ways ; put them into 1 lb. of clarified sugar to crisp them ; stir them over the fire till boiled to souffle; then take them off, and keep stirring till the sugar is dry, like sand; then sift it, so that the almonds may be left, divide them into four parts to colour them differently, the first part red, the second yellow, the third green, and the fourth left white as they come from the sugar. To colour the first soak a small quantity of carmine in clarified sugar, and lay your almonds in it; do the same with a little tincture of saffron for the yellow, and spinach-juice for the green. Place the coloured almonds on a sieve in a stove. When dry mix all together, adding the white ones. Boil nearly as much sugar as your mould will require to souffle, put it in, and when the almonds are quite dry garnish the surface of the sugar with them. Do not, how- ever, lay them too thick, and just press them down with a fork. Put the mould into a moderate oven for five hours, then drain it well, and in another two hours it may be taken from the mould. CANDIED BARBERPJES. Take the bar- berries out of the preserve, and wash off the syrup in warm water; then sift over them some fine sugar, and set them in an oven, often moving them, and strewing sugar upon them until they are dry. CANDIED CHERRIES. The cherries must be gathered before they are ripe. Prick and stone them. Boil clarified sugar, and pour it over them. CANDIED CINNAMON. Soak cinnamon in water for twenty-four houi's, and then cut it in pieces about an inch long ; prepare some sugar to grand lisse, and give the cinnamon a boil in it. Drain and dry it in a stove to the proper consistence; then put it in the moulds with sugar boiled to souffle, and when half cold dry it. Before the candy is removed from the moulds they should be laid on one side for some time. Keep them in paper in a drv place. CANDIED CITRON. Pare " the citrons very tliin and narrow, and throw them into water (these are called faggots); then cut the citron into slices of any thickness you think proper; take out the inner part with great care, 60 as to leave only the white ring, and put them with the faggots into boiling water; when tender drain them. Boil a sufficient quantity of clari- fied sugar to souffle ; then put in the rings and boil them together. Take it from the fire, and when a little cool rub the sugar against the side of the preserving-paia with the back of a spoon. As soon as it becomes white take out the rings with a fork very carefully, one by one, and lay them on a wire grate to drain. Boil, and proceed with the faggots in a similar way. When taken out cut them into proper lengths with a pair of scissors, and lay them also on a wire to drain. CANDIED FLOWERS. Take the best double-refined sugar, break it into lumps, and dip it piece by piece into water; put them into