[ 181 ] BUR BUR Les Ponneaux are wines like the above, but in- ferior in quality. Monthelie, canton of Meur- sault, upon the Cote de Beaume. This vineyard has some slopes which produce wines of this kind and quality, and are equal to the second pressings of Volnay. Amongst the others many good ordinary wines of the first and second quality are found. Meursault. The wines of this place, called Passetoiis Grains, are sound, very full-bodied, and fit to re-establish weakened wines. When old (three or four years in the cask, and some months in bottles,) they are very good as ordinary wines—some of the first, some of the second quality. Fixin, Fixey, and Bro- clion, district of Dijon, produce very good ordi- nary wines, for the most part rather of the first than second quality. La Perriere produces fine, full-bodied wines. St. Martin, near Chalons. The wines are full-bodied, and keep long; they are deteriorated by introducing bad plants. Les Chassieres: ordinary wines of the first quality. Pully, three leagues from Chalons, also ordinary wines of the first quality. Monbogre, two leagues from Chalons. These wines are of a deep colour, which gain much by age. Their merit is their strengthening weak wines, and from this they are called les medecines de la cote Chalonnaise. Red Wines of the Fifth Quality. The wines composing this class are:—l.The second, third, and fourth pressings of all the first four classes. 2. All vineyards which only give ordi- nary wines inferior to those cited. Montagny, Chenove, Buxey, St. Vallerin, and Saules are known as the vineyards of Cote de Buxey. Jambles, canton of Givry, St. Jean de Vaux, and St. Marc produce much common wine, high coloured, and of good body; but without spirit, and harsh and coarse. The vineyards of the dis- trict of Chdtillon-sur-Seine only produce common wines. Semur produces ordinary wines of the second and third quality, amongst which those of Havigny are quoted as good. White Wines of the First Quality. Pur ligny, canton of Nolay. Upon this land the Mont Racket is situated, producing the superior wines, called, under three denominations, accord ing to their excellence, vin de Mont Eachet ami, Le Chevalier Mont Eachet, Le Bdtard Mont Eachet. The first is a perfect wine, uniting all qualities; the others partake of these, but not in the same degrees. White Wines of the Second Quality. Meursault produces wines of great repute, and often sold for the Mont Rachet. The Coteau la Perriere is renowned. The vineyards La Com- belle. La Goutte d'Or, La Genevriere, and Les Charnies produce wines of the same kind. White Wines of the Third Quality The vineyard Eougeot and many others of Meursault give wines of the first class, which only differ by slight shades. The farm of Blagny, upon the territory of Puligny, gives wine? which sell as high as the best qualities of Meursault. The white wines of Haute-Bourgogne are fit to be bottled at the end of a year or eighteen months. As they grow old they take an amber colour, without altering their quality or clearness. From this colour the Goutte d'Or of Meursault is named. When bottled they become thick and troubled, but suffered to rest they recover their clearness, bouquet, and good flavour. White Wines of the Fourth Quality. The second qualities of Meursault, amongst which La Bar re is distinguished. White Wines of the Fifth Quality. The third qualities of Meursault take the first rank. Montagny, Chenove, Buxey, St. Vallerin, and Saules furnish light, sparkling, well-flavoured wines, which keep their liqueur a long time, and, if bottled in March, sparkle like Champagne. Bougeron, canton de Chagny: wines nearly similar to the third qualities of Meursault. Givry, in the part of its vineyards called Le Champ Paurea, a like wine, but less light and spirituous. The other vineyards produce ordi- nary wines, drank in the cabarets of the country, or mixed with inferior red wines. BURNET {Poterium sanguisorhd). This plant has a pleasant flavour, and is frequently used in cool tankards and salads, as well as in the following preparations :— BURNET SAUCE. Wash some bumet very clean and pick it cai'efully leaf by leaf; put 1 tea-spoonful of salt into ^ pint of boiling water; boil the burnet about ten minutes ; drain it on a sieve, mince it quite fine, and then bruise it to a pulp. The delicacy and excellence of this elegant and innocent relish depends upon the bumet being minced very fine. Put it into a sauce-boat, and mix with it, by degrees, about i pint of good melted butter, only do not put so much flour to it, as the burnet will add to its thickness. Never pour burnet and butter over boiled things, but send it up in a boat. BURNET VINEGAR. Burnet is in best season from Midsummer to Michaelmas. Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with the fresh green leaves of burnet, and cover them with vinegar or wine, and let them steep for ten days. If you wish a very strong essence, strain the liquor, put it on some fresh leaves, and let them steep fourteen days more. BURNS AND SCALDS. In all accidents from burns and scalds the part injured should be immediately plunged into cold water, or it should be pumped upon. The ease and benefit obtained by these means will be sudden and ser- viceable. After the use of water for a due length of time, the injured parts may be covered with linen rags moistened with the same, and streams