CAR CAR [ 240 ] but it Ib not by any means the cheapest, nor is it really required. The waste of cutting carpets to fit the room exactly is in some cases excessive, and when the material is expensive the loss is serious. Cheap carpeting, neat drugget, or cocoa-nut matting, according to the style of the room, may be laid down so as to fill up the re- cesses, and occupy the floor of the room like a border, and the carpet itself, made either square or oblong, may then be laid down in the centre to cover the edges of the under-carpet, which should be nailed neatly and closely with small tacks to the floor. The boards should be laid as even as possible beneath the carpet; wherever there is any inequality in the boards the carpet will wear out; and any appearance of this should im- mediately be attended to and the carpet moved. Sheets of paper laid over the floor before putting down the carpet greatly preserve it. If it is a square, it can very easily be turned in the room, that each part may be equally worn ; for there are always portions of a sitting-room, such as the fire place, doorway &c., where more wear and tear takes place : and if the carpet is neg- lected, these spots will soon begin to look pale and threadbare. In family rooms where there are young people, and children especially, it is a good plan to lay down neat pieces of drugget wliere the chief traffic takes place ; these can be taken up and shaken with ease and replaced when worn out or stained. It is better to recon- cile oneself to what we might at first consider " so ugly," than to be worried and vexed at boys coming in with dirty shoes, or to see a nice carpet soiled and spoiling with indifference. It is very ti7ing, to say the least of it, when we have few servants, and those none of the best, to see the marks of shoes and spots of grease injuring a nice new carpet, or hurrying an old one faster than it ought to go. In families where comfort and economy are more studied than display, cocoa-nut matting makes a most useful covering for the floors of sitting-rooms, instead of carpeting. It is very strong, clean-looking, easily brushed and shaken, pretty, and cheap. The pattern of the matting- carpet in use is cross-bars of narrow red stripes, the efi'ect being extremely good. Spots of grease are easily removed with hot water and a flannel; dirt from shoes dries and brushes off as easily, and although it is rather more porous than some carpets are, yet it is so light that it can very conveniently be rolled up to admit of the floor being swept, which is a troublesome operation in the case of heavy, cumbrous carpets. This matting is admirably adapted for passages, halls, &c., because of its durability, and it has a much handsomer look, also, than the common matting. It is thick and warm to the feet in sitting-rooms during the winter, and looks clean and cool in summer. The most beautiful of all carpets for dining-rooms are Turkey carpets; but they are so very expensive that they are quite beyond the reach of persons of small income. There is an English manufacture in imitation of them, which is much less expensive, and the soft, velvety texture is attained; but the quiet, sub- dued colouring of the real Turkey carpet is very superior to the bright, startling reds and greens of the imitation. This defect, however, is of little moment, and time will improve them. There is such an endless variety of kinds, and patterns, and coloui's in carpets, that it is not possible to give an opinion as to the best and prettiest. Quiet colours and patterns are always the most elegant. We have admired carpets extremely in imitation of matting, then two or three shades of rich brown, in leafy pat- terns on a light ground, have a very beautiful effect. Bunches of flowers, if not too gaudy, form a beautiful carpet for the drawing-room. Stair carpeting should be strong, and, to assist the wear, a piece of old carpet or baize should be laid under it at the edge of every step. This protects it a good deal, and prevents its getting thin so soon as it would otherwise do. A neat strip of brown holland laid over the middle of the stair-carpet preserves it from quickly wearing out, and has a ciean and neat appearance if regularly washed before it look dirty, or a piece of dark baize or drugget will answer the same purpose, and in towns is preferable on account of the washing. For the landing-places matting may be used. In bedrooms Carpets should never entii'ely cover the floor, or be nailed down; they should admit of being easily moved and very frequently shaken. Dust and flue accumulate so quickly that if the corners of the rooms are filled up by the carpet, or it is laid down under chests of drawers and other heavy furniture, it is not possible to remove the dust properly without very great trouble and care, and inexperienced or careless housemaids will, of course, neglect this matter. When carpets can be quickly taken up there need be no dirty corners, so disgraceful to the servant and so offensive to the mistress. Nothing is so marked a proof of a dirty house- maid as a collection of flue in the corner of a room, or under sofas, wardrobes, &c., where the eye of the spectator is not supposed to intrude. The tables, mirrors, grates, &c., may be as bright as day, but if there are dirty corners there is a dirty housemaid. Carpets sometimes require to be cleaned with a carpet broom, but this should be done very seldom; it scrapes off the nap and ruins them. A clean hand-broom should be kept expressly for brushing them every morning; it is more trouble and fatigue, perhaps, to the servant, but