CAN [ 226 ] CAN quire no snuffing. The wicks are made of cotton yam, twisted rather hard and coiled round straight iron rods or wires. They are then inserted in the candle moulds, and the metal rod left in them. When the candle is made and quite cold, the rod is drawn from it, leaving through the wick a hollow, cylindrical aperture that admits the air into the interior, which causes the wick itself to he burnt to ashes—a consummation never ob- tained in common candles, because the white flame of Cie wick takes the lion's share of the atmospheric air in contact with the flame, the red flame inside seizing upon what remains, so that, in ordinary candles, the wick cannot ob- tain sufficient air to make it consume. No other cause than this defect, arising from the absence of air to support the combustion of the wick, need be assigned for the necessity of snuf- fers, not one of the varieties of which, even with the newest improvements, is free from the in- conveniences of soil and disagreeable odour. To the uninitiated it probably will be accept- able to know that, after many years of pi'actical attention to this, among other household mat- ters, our decision is in favour of short sixes (moulds) for domestic purposes; the social circle, whether workers, writers, or readers, being better accommodated with light from candles of that size and height than from those called long sixes, which look poor and thin in proportion to their length, or than from long fours, which should be reserved, unless twos be preferred, for parties. Tall candles not only look well, but throw a cheerful light towards the ceiling of a room, and shed a radiance on all beneath them. When a branch is used short fours will be found a good size. We do not like the composition candles, either as respects their appearance, which is dark, heavy, dirty, and opaque, nor as regards the manner of their burning, which is exceed- ingly disagreeable. They flicker, the snuff burns long, curls down, and falls over; and the ma- terial itself, the candle, gutters during a whole" evening incessantly, forming long, unsightly pendants that, hardening as they descend, pro- ject away from the base of the candle and drop in all directions, to the injury of silk dresses, handsome carpets, keys of the piano, &c. Our own taste inclines to the delicate semi-transpa- rent spermaceti. Kitchen candles should be tens (dips), they will be found the most economical size; for although twelves include two more to the pound, they burn out very quickly, and cause more waste ; for ser- vants will not be scrupulous to burn candles to y the ends if they are to be troubled with those / ends frequently. Eights are a very respectable size, too large and good to be swaled about, in gusty nights, through halls and passages, and up and down flights of stairs. Some families will not allow candles iu their kitchens; but lamps are expensive, though safe; and unless several servants be kept, the family be small, and the domestics steady, they are not to be advised. Lamps are pleasant for a library; we have known several families who have resumed the use of candles, after having burned lamps in the social sitting-room. They are more expensive, and much more troublesome than the old- fashioned mould candle. Our calculation is that a lamp costs as much as three caudles. We have tried all kinds of night-lights, and give the preference decidedly to the useful rush; of these there are two sizes which we always make use of—tens for the winter months, and twelves for the summer. No night-light is so certain or so safe, if it be placed in a deep tin to contain water, within the usual painted guard. In the event of a person being obliged to bm-n a candle through the night, instead of a rush, it will be merely necessary to place the candle so crooked in the water tin candlestick that the end of the black snuff project beyond the flame; the oxygen of the air will then act upon it, and cause it to be consumed; thus waste will be prevented, and the candle burn away without guttering. It is scarcely necessary to add that a rushlight may be stopped from burning, at any required time, by passing two pins across so as to pierce the wick ; in the height of summer a twelve will thus suffice for two nights. Child's night - lights are safe and good, but are more expensive than rushlights. If you are without a rushlight, and would burn a candle all night, unless you use some pre- caution, it is ten to one an ordinary candle will gutter away in an hour or two, sometimes to the endangering the safety of the house. This may be avoided by placing as much common salt, finely powdered, as will reach from the tallow to the bottom of the black part of the wick of a partly bui-nt candle, when, if the same be lit, it will burn very slowly, yet yielding sufficient light for a bed-chamber; the salt will gradually sink as the tallow is consumed, the melted tallow being drawn through the salt and consumed in the wick. Candles are a very expensive article in housekeeping, but much money may be saved by their careful management. Carry them steadily that they may not gutter dowm; and see that no pieces are left in the candlesticks to be melted away when they are cleaned. Carefully save all such pieces, and never let a whole candle be cut for the kitchen while any of these remain, nor suffer it to burn in the socket. If the servant have occasion to leave the kitchen for any length of time, she should put o«t the candle while she is gone, and not let two or three be bm-ning at once when one is sufficient.