[ 466 ] ELE ELE ELECAMPANE. This is the name of a plant, native of England, known to botanists as Inula helenium. The roots are the part used, being aromatic, slightly bitter, tonic, stomachic, and promoting perspiration. They are given in hooping-cough and some other diseases. The liquor in which the roots have been boiled is said to cure the scab in sheep, and any erup- tion on the human skin attended by itching is relieved by the same application. There is a peculiar substance in the roots very like starch, and called by chemists inulin. ELECAMPANE ROOTS: To Candy. Take the fairest roots out of the syrup in the next recipe, wash off the sugar, and dry them with a linen cloth. To each pound of roots take If lbs. of sugar, clarify it well, and boil it to a candy height; then dip in your roots, and after- wards stove them. ELECAMPANE EOOTS: To Peeserve. Wash and scrape the roots very well, cut them thin to the pith, and the length of your finger; put them in soak in water for three days to take away their bitterness, and shift them twice a day; then boil the roots till very tender, and put 12 ozs. of clarified sugar to every pound of roots, and boil them in the sugar over a gentle fire till done enough ; then take them off, let them stand, and when betwixt hot and cold put them up for use. ELECTRICITY, MEDICAL. This has often been successfully employed for relieving the human frame from painful maladies, though it has till lately been treated as an empirical process. Being one of the most powerful stimu- lants, its effects may be considered both as general and local. When the vital principle is in a manner extinguished by too violent shocks it may again be kindled or excited by such as are less powerful. Hence electricity promotes a free circulation of the fluids, and particularly the blood ; increases animal heat, perspiration, as well as all the secretions and excretions of the body. 1. Electricity is always improper in active inflammatory diseases. 2. It is also hurtful when a high degree of excitement is felt in the organs of sense, as well as in those of voluntary motion, and when both are accompanied with relaxation or debility. 3. If any local irritation prevail in the body, such as ulcers, inflammatory tumours, eruptions of the skin, &c. In these cases the electric stimulus has a direct tendency to produce congestions, or a local accumulation of humours. It has, how- ever, sometimes been founft highly beneficial in removing the periodical obstructions, though its application requires great precaution. In pas- sive or chronical disorders and debility it has likewise been of considerable service; but the mode of imparting the electric fluid deserves more attention than has, in general, hitherto been bestowed upon it, and violent shocks for the sake of experiment ought never to be com- municated where less powerful ones might be sufficient. Thus the electric hath, and the gentle application of sparks to any particular part of the body, under tlie conditions before stated, are equally safe and advantageous. On the contraiy, the more violent methods of elec- trifying have so often been attended with mis- chievous effects, that they ought to be applied to those persons only whose capacity of receiving external impressions is diminished, and whose excitability is in a languid state. Deafness, paralysis, head and toothaches, however obstinate, have frequently yielded to the powerful effects of electricity. Similar suc- cess has attended its application to parts affected with the cramp, gouty and rheumatic pains, palsy, and sometimes even epilepsy; besides which, moderate electric shocks have in various instances contributed to the resuscitation of persons whose vital functions were destroyed by drowning. It ought, nevertheless, to be resorted to only in particular cases, and under the im- mediate inspection of a medical practitioner. ELECTUARY is any medical powder or powders mixed into a stiff paste with syrup. Electuary for the worms. Powdered tin, 3 ozs.; syrup of roses, or even treacle, ^ oz.; simple syrup a sufiicient quantity. Dose, a table- spoonful every morning for three days, to be succeeded by a brisk purge. Or, Electuary of cowhage. Cowhage pods scraped into syrup till they render it as thick as honey. Dose, a tea- spoonful in the morning, fasting, as a vermifuge, a purge being given a day or two afterwards. Electuary for the piles. Take flour of sul- phur, i oz.; lenitive electuary, 2 ozs.; nitre, 3 drachms; syrup of orange-peel. Dose, the size of an ordinary-sized nutmeg three or four times a day. Electuary for a cough. Spermaceti, 2 drachms; tragacanth powder, 1 drachm; syrup of poppies and syrup of tolu, of each 2 drachms ; confection of roses, 6 drachms ; nitre, I drachm. Dose, the size of a nutmeg frequently. ELEPHANTIASIS is so called because the leg affected becomes swollen and distorted so as to resemble the limb of an elephant. It is also called " Barbadoes leg," from prevailing in that island. In India we have seen the arms of the natives similarly diseased. Though this disease sometimes comes on without previous indisposition, it is for the most part preceded by febrile symptoms. There is subsequent pain in the groin on one side, affecting the glands. Though these rarely sup-