CHE [ 278 J CHE Its constituent parts are the following : — Contents in a gallon Grains Muriate of soda. _ . . . . 219-75 Sulphate of magnesia . • • • 98'25 Sulphate of soda .... 80-01 Muriate of magnesia . . . . 40-00 Muriate of lime 36-00 Carbonate of iron . , • . . 7-1 Sulphate of lime • . . . 85-01 56C-17 Cubic inches Carbonic acid gas .... 12-07 Oxygen gas 4-03 Atmospheric air. . . . . l'2l 17-31 This analysis shows that it holds in solution several of the most active ingredients of mineral waters, and approximates nearly in composition to that of the Old Spa. Its medical character is similar in every respect, for it has a speedy operation on the alimentary canal, anSt produces evacuations without griping, or leaving any languor or debility. It is probably on this account, and from the salutary influence of the chalybeate, that it may be employed uninter- ruptedly for a considerable length of time, and that, during its use, the digestive organs will be strengthened, the appetite improved, and the constitution invigorated. The sensible effects sometimes produced by this water on first taking it are a degree of drowsiness and headache; but these symptoms soon go off spontaneously, even previously to the operation of the bowels. When taken in too small a quantity to affect the intestinal canal, it will generally determine pretty power- fully to the kidneys. Thore is m advantage attending this water in common with all pur- gative waters, that it may be used in most cases at once without any preparation of the body. There are, however, some conditions of the system in which the water will distress the stomach and head, unless the bowels have pre- viously been excited to action by preparatory medicines. Invalids in the habit of using calomel may take 2 or 3 grains of it at bed- time, and a dose of the water at the well next morning to work it off. Three doses of calomel thus taken to act as purgatives,, with an interval of several days between each, will commonly be sufficient to prepare the body for a course of this water. The season for drinking it is during the whole of the summer months, and the time of day found by experience to be the best is early in the morning, when the water contains most iron, and the stomach is empty. Notwithstand- ing some valetudinarians drink it at bedtime, for the purpose of its remaining all night in the bowels, that it may more completely cleanse them in the morning after exercise. The dose ought always to be moderate on first using it, and the quantity increased according to the effects produced on the body. It will, conse- quently, depend very much on the age, sex, con- stitution, and disease of the invalid, and whether it is intended gently to augment the natural evacuations, or to act as a brisk cathartic. A small tumbler containing about 6 ozs. of the water will, in general, be a sufficient dose at the commencement of the course. This quan- tity may, however, be repeated, if required, after walking a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes ; and may in two or three days be augmented to two glasses, holding 12 ozs. each, called well pints. When the water disturbs the stomach, instead of passing off freely, Cheltenham salts should be added to one of the glasses. These salts are kept in a state of solution at all the wells, for the purpose of strengthening the water when it is not sufficiently active of itself. The symptoms of nausea, flatulence, and vomiting, which sometimes occur from its use will be relieved by peppermint drops, ether, or a tea-spoonful of the simple tincture of carda- moms, taken with the water or after it. When it continues to cause headache or giddiness the water should be warmed or exposed to the at- mosphere for a few minutes before it is drank, to dissipate the aerial principle; and after drink- ing it the invalid should walk about in the open air The temperature of the water is of some importance. In its cold state it braces the stomach and cools the body, while in its warm it relaxes. Invalids should, therefore, endeavour to habituate themselves to the use of it in the coldest state, except in those cases where warmth is required; then some of the water, which is kept on purpose by the pumper, heated, should be added to each dose. The duration of the course necessarily varies with the nature of the disease and the effects of the water on the constitution. The diet should be light and nutritive. Flatulent food, malt liquors, and acid fruits, which are apt to disorder the stomach and bowels, and to occasion griping and habitual purging, should be carefully avoided. Daily exercise in the morning and regular habits of life are indispensably necessary. From the medicinal powers of this water, and the known importance of the due performance of the functions of the alimentary canal in the establishment of health, it is obvious that it is applicable to a vast number of miscellaneous diseases of a chronic kind, and many of which are highly difficult of cure.