DIE [ 414 ] DIE from -whatever cause this disease may proceed, ■whenever it may be found necessary to check it (and here some discrimination is requisite), the diet should consist as above, ^vith rice boiled in milk, and flavoured with cinnamon, sago, Indian arrowroot, and the like. Those who are liable to frequent I'eturns of diarrhoea should live tem- perately, avoiding every exciting cause likely to reproduce it. DIET is a regimen or course of living adapted both to the preservation of health and its re- covery, especially from chronical diseases. The dietetic treatment ought to he con- formable to the different constitutions of in- dividuals. Those whose solids are relaxed and weak should avoid all tough or viscid food, and such as is difficult to be digested. Their nutri- ment, however, ought to be substantial, and they should take frequent exei'cise in the open air. The plethoric, or those who abound with blood, cannot more effectually consult their health than by a spnring use of whatever is in a high degree nourisliing, as fat meat, rich wines, strong ale, &o. Their aliment should consist chiefly of bread or other vegetables, and their drink of water, whey, or small beer. See Coe- PDLENCY. Persons of a lean habit ought to follow a course directly opposite to that before suggested. Those who are troubled with acidity should live chiefly on solid meat, and those afflicted with hot alkaline eructations should principally use acid vegetables. Invalids subject to the gout, to low spirits, to hypochondriac or hysteric disorders, should avoid all flatulent food, as also salted or smoke-dried provisions, and whatever is difficult of digestion or apt to turn sour and rancid on the stomach. Their food should be light, spare, cool, and of an opening nature. Another important object to be considered is the manner of life and age, together with the season and constitution. Those whose inclina- tion, business, or profession leads them to a sedentary life ought to be more sparing as to the quantity, and more attentive to the quality of their aliment than others whose pursuits are widely different, or who are accustomed to take much exercise. The former ought particularly to avoid the use of everything that is sour, flatulent, rancid, and oppressive to the digestive organs. Persons liable to particular diseases should be cautious in eating whatever tends to aggravate them. The gouty, for instance, should avoid drinking rich wines,' strong soups, or acids. Those who are subject to the gravel ought to shun all austere and astringent aliments; nor should the scorbutic indulge in animal food. The aliment in early life ought to be light, nourishing, and taken frequently, but in modera- tion ; that of adults should be solid and suffi- ciently tenacious; and the diet proper for those advanced in life should resemble that of in- fancy. At every period of life gluttony should be sedulously avoided, for, not unlike too great abstinence, it destroys the powers of digestion ; but the moderate repetition of aliment is neces- sary for restoring the continual waste of the body. Diet ought also to be regulated according to the different seasons of the year, because varia- tions in the atmosphere produce corresponding changes in animal bodies. In consequence of the increased elasticity of the air in the winter the fibres are stronger, and better qualified for performing their various functions, and for digesting the stronger kinds of food. If there be no particular reason for the contrary generous wines and wholesome ale, together with warm broths and infusions, may be then taken to pro- mote the insensible perspiration, which is in some degree checked, as the cold air remarkably contracts the cutaneous pores. Some attention should also be paid to this circumstance, that the perspiration bear a due proportion to the liquid and solid nutriment consumed. In the spring the quantity of food ought to be somewhat diminished, and an additional allowance of the liquor usually druuk might be granted. In autumn similar regulations are to be observed as in the spring, because the moisture and density of the air are nearly the same, and the weather is equally variable, so that perspiiation is easily obstructed. During the summer health may be most effectually pre- served by vegetables and diluent liquors. Con- siderable care should be taken to abstain from provisions that are heavy and difficult to be digested, but especially from wine and brandy. The feeble and convalescent ought to eat fre- quently, and but little at a time. The number of meals should be proportioned to the weakness of their frame, for it is far less hurtful to a de- bilitated person to eat a few mouthsful every hour than to make two or three hearty meals in one day. An exception, however, ought to be made with respect to those who are naturally of a delicate and irritable constitution. See Ali- ment. DIET BREAD. Sift lib. of fine flour, and dry it thoroughly by the fire; beat up eight eggs for a short time, and then add gradually 1 lb. of beaten and sifted loaf sugar. Continue beating them together an hour and a half; then strew the flour on cold, with J oz. of caraway and coriander seeds mixed together and slightly bruised. The beating must be continued till the whole is put into the mould or hoop, and set in a quick, but not too hot oven. An hour will bake it sufficiently.