BEE C 93 ] BEE lies only in the inside of the sirloin, next to the chine, and is the tenderest part of the ox. Place this on a small spit, but do not run it through the best part of the meat; roast it gently, and baste it with butter; catch gravy in a dish while the beef is roasting. .In the meantime make a sauce for it with sweet herbs and parsley, shred fine, the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 onion, and some orange-peel, chopped small; put these into fi'esh butter, gravy, 1 or 2 spoonsful of strong broth and vinegar; stew them all together. Put your beef into this sauce and serve it hot. BEEF, FILLET OF (Roasted and Larded) (1). Trim your fillet, lard it fine, and let it soak for twelve hours in a pickle made of good oil, salt, pepper, nutmeg, sweet herbs, a bay leaf, and an onion cut in slices. After it has soaked, take it out and put it on the spit before a quick fire. It must not be too much done, but should be taken off the spit with the gravy in it. Serve it with a sauce made of its own gravy, a little vinegar^ shallots, salt, and pepper, put into a sauce-boat. BEEF, FILLET OF (Roasted and Larded) (2). Take off the superfluous fat and tie the fillet ready for cooking; lard it at each extremity, leaving the middle without lai'd. Let it soak some days in oil seasoned with onions, parsley, lemon-juice, and pepper. Truss it in the form of an S or a round, and roast it till it retains a good colour. Dish it with any sauce you may think best. BEEF, FORCEMEAT. Mince a piece of tender beef with as much suet, a bit of ham, and small bits of bacon, 3 or 3 eggs, parsley, shallots, thyme, laurel, fine spices, and a little salt; add a glass of brandy; mix all together, and roll it into the form of a large pudding ; place round it thin slices of bacon ; over the bacon put white paper, and upon the paper a paste made of flour and water. Bake it about two hours in the oven, and when done take off the paste and bacon. If you serve it hot, add a relishing sauce; if cold, leave the paste till you are ready to serve, and send it up in a second course. BEEF, FRTCANDEAU OF. Take a nice bit of lean beef, lard it with bacon, seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice ; put it into a stewpan, with 1 pint of broth, 1 glass of white wine, 1 bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, I clove of garlic, 1 or 2 shallots, 4 cloves, pepper, and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it closely; skim the sauce well and strain it. Set it on the fire and let it boil till it is reduced to glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel sauce. BEEF, FRICASSEE OF (Cold Roast). Cut the meat into slices, and shred well a handful of parsley; quarter an onion, and put the whole into a pan with butter and strong broth; throw in some pepper and salt, and simmer gently a quarter of an hour. Add the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar. Stir these quickly, rub the dish with shallot, and pour the fricasee into it. BEEF, FRIED. Cut your beef into steaks; beat them with the back of a shredding-knife ; take out all the fat; and then put them into a frying-pan with a sufficient quantity of butter to moisten the pan; set it over a moderate fire, turn your beef often, and, as the gravy runs from it, keep pouring it out; then fry the fat by itself and lay it on the lean. Then put a little anchovy, onion, nutmeg, pepper, and claret, into the gravv, and stew it a little. BEEF GOBLETS. Take about 6 lbs. of any piece of beef, except the leg or shin ; cut it into pieces about the size of a hen's egg; put them into a stewpan, and just cover them with water; put them over the fire, and when the scum rises skim it clear off; then put in some cloves, mace, allspice, and whole pepper, tied in muslin, 6 heads of celery, about an inch long and well washed, 1 or 2 carrots, cut in slices, 2 turnips, cut in dice, a bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper and salt, and a crust of bread ; stew them till the meat is tender, and then take out the spice, herbs, and bread. Have some crusts of French roll crisped before the fire; put them into a dish, and put the meat, &c., over them. Put in 2 ozs. of Scotch barley or rice when you put in the herbs. BEEF GRAVY. Cut a piece of the chuck or neck into small pieces ; strew some flour over it; mix it well with the meat, and put it into the saucepan with as much water as will cover it, an onion, a little allspice, a little pepper^ and some salt; cover it closely, and when it boils skim it. Then throw in a hard crust of bread or some raspings, and stew it till the gravy is rich and good ; strain it off, and pour it into a sauce- boat. BEEF, HAMBURGH. Take about 8 lbs. of buttock of beef, and cure it in the same way as you would a ham, letting it lie for three weeks, rubbing and turning it every day. Then sew it up in a cloth, and hang it in a chimney or smoking-house to dry, turning it upside down every day for some time at first to prevent the brine from settling in one place. When ready for use, boil in soft water. BEEF HAMS (1). Cut the leg of a small ox like a ham of about 15 lbs. ; then mix 1 oz. of bay salt, the same quantity of saltpetre, 1 lb. of common salt, and as much coarse sugar. Rub these well into the meat; turn and barfte it with the pickle every day for a mouth ; then take it out, roll it in bran or sawdust, and hang