[ 198 ] CAK CAK breaking them. They will heat to a finer froth and in a shorter time when cold. In summer put them into water with a little ice. It is better to beat them in a cold place rather than a hot room. All cakes are decidedly lighter if the whites and yolks are beaten separately. It is well always to require this to be done. Beat the yolks well, adding gradually the sugar, where there is no butter to be used. But if butter is needed, work your butter to a cream, adding from time to time the sugar, until the quantity is used, then the yolks weU beaten, and lastly, the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Eveiy one will, we think, be sufficiently repaid for the time and trouble in so doing, by the finer quality of their cake. In mixing your cake do not use the hands if possible to avoid it, particularly in warm weather; the warmth of the hand will be apt to make your cake heavy. A wooden spatula cr spoon should be kept for this purpose alone. All cakes not made with yeast should be baked as soon as possible after they are mixed, as the ingredients are very liable to separate. Sugar should be rolled with a rolling-pin to a powder on a clean bread-board, and sifted through a fine hair sieve. Crushed white or loaf sugar must be used for sponge and pound cakes. Brown sugar, coarse grained, but clean, vfill answer for plum-cakes, and some of the cup and loaf cakes. Still these last are nicer made of crushed sugar. It can be purchased ready- powdered at the stores. Firkin butter should be cut in small pieces, well washed and drained before using it, or the cake will be heavy. Lemon-peel should be pared very thin, and with a little sugar beaten in a mortar (marble if you have it) to a paste; then mixed with either wine, cream, or a little milk, so as to divide easily among the other ingredients. The best way to give the lemon flavour to cake or custard is, to rub a piece of sugar some time over the rind of a fresh lemon ; the hard sugar tears the cells in which the oil of the lemons is inclosed, and the oil is attracted into the pores of the sugar. As the sugar is discoloured scrape it off with a knife, and it is well, perhaps, to dry this sugar before using it in delicate cakes. This can be kept in jars or bottles. Any oil or essencs to be added to cake should be dropped upon a lump of sugar, and then put into the dough to dissolve. Black or white plum-cakes require less butter and eggs for having yeast in them, and eat equally light and rich. If the dough be only of flour, milk, water, and yeast, it becomes more tough and is less easily divided than if the butter be first mixed with these ingredients, and the dough afterwards set to rise. Fresh eggs are required for nice white cakes. Sponge cake, Savoy biscuit, pound cake, and ladies' finger cakes should never be attempted without fresh eggs. Eggs kept in lime, or in any other preparation, will answer for simpler mixtures. Fruit is the last article to be added to cake, and immediately before putting it into the oven. Cask raisins should be washed before they are stoned, as also box raisins, unless very fresh. To stone them, cut them once or twice, and remove the stones. Some persons chop them very fine. It is well to prepare currants before they are needed. Wash them well in warm water, rub them between the hands, and then drain off the water. Continue to do this till the water is clear. Drain them in a cullender, spread them on a cloth on the table, and rub them dry with a cloth ; finish drying them in a vei7 gentle heat. If they are added to cakes or puddings damp they will make it heavy. Buttered paper should be put in the bottom and sides of pans when the cake requires a long baking; and paper not buttered is good for other cake to prevent burning. If the oven is too hot place a sheet of paper on the top of the cake to prevent the top from burning. The heat of the oven is of great importance in baking cakes, especially those that are large. If not pretty quick the batter will not rise. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or if the heat has become slack, the eake will be heavy. To know when it is well soaked take a broad-bladed knife that is very bright, or a clean straw, plunge it into the centre, and di-aw it out instantly, and if there should be the least sticki- ness the cake is not cooked, and should be immediately returned to the oven. Saleratus or soda should be always kept, rolled and sifted, and when used for hot cakes should be dissolved in a very little warm, not hot water. Some people keep saleratus dissolved ready for use. Put as much saleratus in a bottle as will dis- solve when filled with water, using 2 table- spoonsful of the liquid instead of a tea-spoonful of powder. This answers better for hot cakes than for cup or loaf cakes. When eggs are broken be exceedingly careful that none of the yolk becomes mingled with the white. A very little of the yolk will sometimes prevent the wliite from foaming well. Take a cup, break the shell on it, allow the white to fall into it, and put the yolk in a bowl; transfer the white with an egg-beater or a loug-bladed knife. Hold the knife almost parallel with the dish ; give a quick, sharp stroke thi'ough the whole length; beat them in a cool place till you can cut the froth, or till it slides from your knife in one mass. It is better not to stop beating, when once begun, until you have finished, as it will become liquid, and cannot be restored; your cake will be heavy. 1