[ 166 ] BRE grains will now be found exhausted. To give a little colour and strength to the beer 1 lb. of good treacle may be put to the wort, and it may then remain in its cooler till the boiling of the ale be concluded. Where there are two coppers the beer may be finished off nearly as soon as the ale. Boiling. If there be a surplus boiler the first strong wort should be put into it with half the hops, mashed or unmashed; add 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of common salt, and bring the wort slowly to the boiling point, so that, if possible, the second wort, which in quantity ought to be equal to that of the water put in the tub, may be drawn off, and be in the copper with the first, in order that the whole may boil together. Great caution will be required to keep down the head of hops, which, with the froth, rises suddenly if the fire be brisk. A person should stand by the copper with a mash-oar or a broad stick to break down the rising head, and let the hot liquor throw its first waves over, for waves they are ; the head will then be carried under, and put into brisk action. Thus a loss may be prevented, and the hops will be dispersed through- out every part of the boiling fluid. Rapid and brisk boiling is beneficial, and this ought to be continued for an hour at least; within that time a substance, termed vegetable albumen, which was mixed with the wort and rendered it turbid, will be coagulated by the heat and partly, per- haps, by an astringent principle in the hops, and float in small masses through the then clear wort. A bowlful of the liquor taken up now and then will exhibit the brealdng; and the boiling should be continued for half an hour after it has been effected. It may be right to mention that some writers recommend that the wort be boiled one hour previous to the addition of any hops, and half an hour longer with them. This, they say, tends to secure the full effect of the boiling process, but does not permit the loss of so great a portion of the fine aroma of the hops. We have not seen the plan in practice, but mean to try it immediately. The beer may boil one hour with one-half of the hops of the ale, which may readily be obtained by straining off some of the boiling wort through a sieve placed over the copper. This implies that there are two boilers, and that it is an object to save time; if there be but one the beer must be kept aside till the ale be removed. The hops of the ale are amply sufiicient for the beer; if half be added, ^ above recommended, the beer may be boiled for an hour with that quantity, and strained through the other half, by which means it will carry through all the strong wort that the hops retained. Straining. This is best effected through hair sieves, though wicker ones do very well. Pass the ale-wort through coolers, so that each may not contain more than one-third of the ale-wort, for now the great heat should be brown as quickly as possible. Let the coolers be placed in the air where a current may pass over them if the weather be rainy. If the processes of mash- ing and boiling have been carefully conducted there will be about 18 gallons of raw wort, which, by rapid boiling, straining, and wort retained in the hops, will be reduced to a little more than 14 gallons. The beer by boiling will be brought to 8 gallons; but then it will lose nothing in the sieve, as it wiU carry down all the absorbed ale-wort, and the hops may be pressed forcibly, which they should not be in the first instance after the ale. Fermentation. The commencement of this all-important process is commonly and, we think, ignorantly called pitching. We have said that the temperature most propitious to the work is in October, or when it may be about 50° or 5-5''. The first cooler of wort ought to be ready by six or seven o'clock in the evening, cooled to 80°. It is an error to suppose that a good quantity of really fine yeast or barm injures beer; the least hint of it, if foul, will spoil many gallons; but one pint of the thickest barm that can be obtained will be of service to the quantity now under notice. Let, then, 1 pint be thoroughly mixed and beaten up with 2 gallons of wort at 80°; carry this to the cellar, and then place the coolers, side by side, near the vessel con- taining the working wort. This we recommend to be an 18-gallon upright cask without its head; it is narrow at the bottom, and thus allows the wort to be deep in it, and to retain its heat; cover the cask with a piece of flannel, and place its loose head upon that. Thus there will be a cask with 2 gallons of wort and 1 pint of barm in it, one cooler with 3 gallons, and two others with nearly 5 gallons of wort in each. If the cellar be well constructed it will maintain a pretty equable temperature, and be at about .55°. By ten at night the working in the tub will be fully established, and then, 3 gallons of wort at 70° or 75° should be put into 5 gallons of about 68°, heating a quart or more of a raw wort, and pouring it in the cooler till the liquor in it be raised to the required degree. Stir the working liquor, and leave it for six hours; then try the working heat again, and if it be above or at 75°, add 3 gallons at 65°; again cover it, and in four hours add the remaining cool wort, reserving about 2 quarts for a peculiar purpose. We have thus detailed the gradual additions of worts at given heats as we noticed them on a large scale; and we may add that we have prac- tised the method we recommend with most gratifying success. It varies from and is counter to the ordinary mode of setting an entire batch