COD COD [ 327 ] the liquor out of the dish in which it has been baked into a saucepan, and boil it two or three minutes; strain it, and put thereto 1 gill of port wine, 2 spoonsful" of catsup, 1 pint of shrimps, ^pint of oysters, 1 spoonful of mushroom pickle, and ;|:lb. of butter rolled in flour. Stir the whole well, and boil till it thickens; then strain it, and pour it into the dish. Cut some toasted bread into squares, fry them crisply, and place them about the head. Garnish with crisped parsley, lemon, and horseradish. COD'S HEAD: To Eoast. When well cleaned scrape it, and strew salt on it; then put the head into a tin oven or a stewpan before the fire, screened behind, that the heat may act the stronger upon the fish. At the end of half an hour drain off the water, and strew over the head a little nutmeg, cloves, beaten mace, and salt. Flour and baste with butter; then, after letting it stand some time, turn, season, and baste the other side. Do this often, and strew on it crumbs of bread. If the head is large it will take four or five hours. Melt some butter, and mix with an anchovy some of the liver of the fish, boiled and bruised finely, and the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. When this boils strain it, and return it to the saucepan, with a few shrimps or pickled cockles, 2 spoonsful of port wine, and the juice of a lemon. Simmer it a minute or two, put it into the same pan the head was roasted in, and, having stirred it well, replace it once more in the saucepan, and con- tinue to do so till it boils. Put the head in a dish, pour the sauce into a tureen, and serve the whole up quite hot. COD S HEAD AND SHOULDERS. Take out the gills and blood, wash the fish clean, and, having rubbed it all over with salt and a glass of vinegar, lay it on a plate. When the water boils throw in a handful of salt, with half a pint of vinegar, after which put in your fish, and let it boil gently half an hour, but if it is large three quarters of an hour will be necessary. On taking it up slip off the skin, set the fish before a good fire, dredge it with flour, and baste it well with butter. When the froth begins to rise strew crumbs of bread over it, and as soon as it is brown dish it up. Garnish with small fish, or oysters fried in butter, berberries, horseradish, and lemon. Serve with lobster, shrimp, or anchovy sauce. CODLIN CREAM. Pare and core twenty codlins ; beat them in a mortar, and put thereto sugar, bread crumbs, and a glass of wine. Stir it thoroughly. CODLIN TART. ■ Scald some codlins; let them stand an hour in the same water covered, which will make them look green; then put them into your tart either whole or quartered. Put iu sugar and a little musk, close it up, and let it bake. Boil a quart of cream with the yolks of four or five eggs, sugar, and a litile musk. When your tart is half baked cut it open, and pour your cream, &c., on the codlins; set it in the oven again for half an hour, then scrape some sugar on it, and serve it up hot. CODLINS : To Preserve Green. Gather them when they are about the size of a large walnut, with the stalks and a leaf or two on them. Put a handful of vine leaves into a pan of spring water; then put a layer of codlins, then one of vine leaves, and so on till the pan is full. Cover it closely to prevent the steam coming out, and set it on a slow fire. When you find them soft take off the skins with a pen- knife, and then put them in the same water with the vine leaves, which must be cold, other- wise they will be apt to crack. Put in a little roche alum, and set them over a very slow fire till they are green, which will be in three or four hours; then take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain. Make a good syrup, and give them a gentle boil once a day for three days ; then put them into small jars, cover them closely with brandy paper, tie them down tightly, and set them iu a dry place. They will keep all the year. CODLINS, GRILLEES. Take three fresh codlins, egg them over, shake them in flour, and broil them over a moderate fire till done, and of a good colour on both sides; or you may toss them in egg and crumbs of bread as directed for Turbot. Serve with sauce d VEspagnole. CODLINS, PICKLED (oke Mangoes). Make a brine with salt and water strong enough to bear an egg. Take codlins full grown, but not ripe ; let them lie in the brine for ten days, shifting the pickle once in two days; then dry them, and scoop out the cores. Take out the stalks, so that you may put them in again in the room of the core. Fill them with ginger sliced very thin, a clove of garlic, and whole mustard seeds. Put in the piece of apple that belongs to the stalk, and tie it up tightly. Put to them as much white wine vinegar, with cloves of garlic, whole mustard seed, and ginger, as will cover them. Pour this pickle upon them boiling hot every other day for a fortnight or three weeks, and keep them in stone jars. This will imitate the real mango better than cucumber. CODLINS (with Sweet Herbs). Cut a codlin into si# or eight pieces ; core it as clean as possible, and marinate it in melted butter, lemon juice, and all sorts of sweet herbs chopped; then lay it on the table dish, with all the mari- nade both under and over it; cover it with bread crumbs, and add small bits of butter, or a few drops melted close to each other; bake it in