L 434 ] DUG l>e Sf3t. free, and a moderate pressure made with tlie hand upon the chest. Eepeat this process till life appears. , 6. Electricity to be employed early by a medical assistant. 7. Inject into the stomach, by means of an elastic tube and syringe, half a pint of warm brandy and water or wine and water. 8. Apply sal volatile or hartshorn to the nostrils. DRUNKENNESS. When a person is con- veyed home in a state of deep intoxication he should be placed in a large room, to which the air is freely admitted, and none should be allowed to remain within who ai'e not absolutely necessary. He should be laid in a recumbent position, with his head to one side, to favour vomiting, which should be excited by tickling the back part of the throat with a feather, or, if that fail, by an active emetic, and the feet placed in hot water. This should be succeeded by an injection of common salt. If the nausea and vomiting continue after the contents of the stomach are evacuated effervescing draughts of soda or Seidlitz water are to be emplryed. To remove the stupor cold water may be dashed on the face, and applied freely to the head by means of cloths. When the insensibility and lethargy are great, and do not go off, but rather increase, then the propriety of bleeding, either from the temporal artery or jugular vein, comes to be considered. DRY-ROT. A peculiar disease that attacks wood, and renders it brittle and rotten. It principally occurs among the timbers of ships and of damp and ill-ventilated houses. It has been ascribed to the formation of fungi. Various means have been proposed to prevent the attacks of dry-i'ot, and to arrest its progress when it has commenced, among which the process called Kyanising (after Kyan, the name of the patentee) is most generally known, and has been most extensively adopted. It consists in immersing the timber in a bath of corrosive sublimate. A solution of pyrolignite of iron has also been used for the same purpose, and in a similar way, with the best effect. It is asserted, how- ever, that Kyanised wood that has been exposed for a considerable time in some unfavourable situations has suffered from the dry-rot in nearly an equal degree with unprepared wood. Lately the process termed Paynisinr/ (after Mr. Payne, the inventor) has been adopted, and appears likely to supersede every other method. This plan consists in first filling the pores with a solution of muriate of lime, and next forcing in a solution of sulphate of iron, by which an insoluble sulphate of lime is formed in the body of the wood, and the latter is rendered nearly as hard as stone. Wood so prepared has alreadv been adopted in several public works.— [Cooley.) DUCELLE. Mince mushrooms, parsley, young onions, or shallots, the same quantity of each ; put some butter into a stewpan, with as much rasped bacon; put it upon the fire, and ssason with salt, pepper, fine spiceries, a little grated nutmeg, and a bay leaf; moisten with a spoonful of Espagnole or veloute ; let it sim- mer, taking care to stir it; when sufficiently done finish it with a thickening of yolks of eggs well beaten, which must not boil. The juice of a lemon is not necessary, but may be added ; put it in a dish, and use it for everything that is put in papillotes. DUCK: To Ro.\st. Having well cleaned and wiped it, take 1 oz. of onion and half as much green sage (both chopped finely), a tea- cupful of bread crumbs, some black pepper, salt, and the yolk of an egg; mis the whole well, and make a stuffing. Or you may do this another way by chopping finely about 2 ozs. of onion, half as much of the leaves of green sage, a little pepper and salt, and some minced apple. A duck of moderate size will take from half to three quarters of an hour, and the feet should be nicely crisped. Serve with fine gravy, or sage and onion sauce. DUCK A LA BEARNOISE. Stew a duck with a little stock, half a glass of white wine, a bunch of parsley and green onions, some thyme, a bay leaf, basil, and two cloves. For sauce put seven or eight large onions sliced into a stew- pan with a piece of butter, and keep stirring them over the fire till they are coloured ; then add a little flour, and moisten with the liquor of the duck. When the onion is quite done, and the sauce thick, skim it; add a sprinkling of vinegar, and serve over the duck. DUCK A LA BIGARADE. Tie up a duck into a round form, rub the breast with lemon juice, and put it into a saucepan, with rashers of bacon under and over it, and fire on the top of the saucepan. An hour before serving let it simmer; then drain it, and having untied the string put it on a dish, and serve with the follow- ing sauce :—Three large spoonsful of Espagnole, a little coarse peppei', and the juice of a Seville orange, with a little of the peel; put into a saucepan on the fire, and when it begins to boil pour it round the duck. If you have not a Seville orange a lemon will do nearly as well. DUCK A LA BOURGEOISE. Lard a duck with fat bacon, and stew it over a slow fire with some stock, a glass of wine, a bunch of parslej', some leeks, a bay leaf, cloves, salt, and pepper; skim and strain the sauce, reduce it to a proper consistence, and serve over the duck. DUCK A LA BRUXELLES. Cut a veal sweetbread and some streaked bacon into dice,