FIN FIR [ 495 ] charcoal ia best. Draw the upper end of the bag closely round the under part of the water crane or tap, and fasten it tightly there. The foulest water issuing from the pipe will pass out at the lower and narrow end of the bag as pure and clear as possible. When foul the sponge can be taken out and cleaned, or the charcoal renewed. The plate of zinc may be so fastened as to be easily removed: this will be better, as it will allow the bag to be washed and cleaned, as particles of matter may lodge in the part of the bag under the plate. FINANCIERE. Mix cocks' combs and kidneys with some fish forcemeat, some mush- rooms, some truffles sliced, bottoms of artichokes in small pieces, sweetbreads of veal, or livers of poultry; the whole to be done to a nicety. Prepare all as a fricassee of fowl, and you will have a financiere, which may be served with some crusts round it, or as a garnish to a vol-au- vent, a pullet, a fowl boiled au blanc, a fricassee of fowl, or other entrees. FININGS OF ALUM. Boil a drachm of alum in a pint of water till one-half is eva- porated; then put it warm into the cordial liquor in the proportion of half a tea-spoonful to a gallon. FININGS FOR WINE. Take the whites and shells of three fresh eggs, beat them in a wooden vessel till they become a thick froth, add thereto a little wine, and whisk it up again. If the cask be full take out four or five gallons, and give it a good stirring ; next whisk up the finings, and put them in, after which stir tlie whole well; drive in the bung, bore a hole for a vent, and in about three days close it with a peg- FIRE. There is in this, more than in most things about a house, a right and a wrong way of managing every process connected with it. In preparing a fire for lighting fill your grate with fresh coals quite up to the upper bar but one; then lay in your faggot of wood in the usual manner, rather collected in a mass than scattered, that a body of concentrated heat may be produced as soon as possible ; over the faggot place the cinders of the preceding day, piled up as high as the grate will admit, and placetl loosely in rather large fragments, in order that the draught may be free; a bit or two of fresh coal may be added to the cinders when once they are lighted, but no small coal must be thrown on at first. When all is prepared light the wood, when the cinders becoming in a short time thoroughly ignited, the gas rising from the coals below, which will now be affected by the heat, will take fire as it passes through them, leaving a very small portion of smoke to go up the chimney. The advantage of this mode of lighting a fire is, that small coal is better suited to the purpose than large, except a few pieces in front to keep the small from falling out of the grate: it may be kept in reserve to be put on afterwards if wanted. We have fre- quently known our fire, lighted at eight o'clock in the morning, continue burning till eleven at night without anything being done to it: when apparently quite out, on being stirred you have in a few minutes a glowing fire. It will some- times be necessary to loosen or stir slightly the upper part of the fire if it begins to cake ; but the lower part must not be touched, other- wise it will burn away too soon. Founded on a similar principle are the following directions :—Clean out the grate ; cover the bottom with a sheet of paper, cut or folded to fit; place your coals in the grate to the level of the top bar, keeping the larger pieces to the front to prevent waste. Light your fire on the top, and allow it to burn down- wards undisturbed. An ordinaiy fire prepared in this way will, according to the size and form of the grate, burn six, eight, or ten hours with- out any renewal of coal, and burning brighter and warmer than if lighted from below, as fires are ordinarily made. The coal should be tolerably equal in size, something like Mac- adam stones for roads. Place the larger pieces in front, the small to the back. We have continually and for years had fires thus managed, and can vouch for the saving of coal, as well as the cheerfulness and warmth, and freedom from smoke of the fires. The usual mode of " mending a fire " is tf throw on an immense quantity of coal to & feeble and almost exhausted body of cinders, which this overwhelming mass nearly extin- guishes. In five minutes the injudicious house- keeper becomes impatient, and the poker is thrust in at the top of the fire to stir it. The principal part of the cold mass of black dust instantly rushes into the midst of the cinders ; no trifling portion of it pours through the bars, mixes among the ashes, and is necessarily wasted; while all the remainder, excepting that lightest part which has in the meantime floated out into the apartment in dingy clouds, and settled on the furniture, lodges in the front of the grate, choking it up, and thus preventing any access of atmospheric air to revive the expiring fire. Exclamations follow of the badness of the coals, and the bad construction of the grate ; that dull red spot among tlie coals waxes more and more sullen; fresh attacks with the poker complete the affair, and it is turned over to the servant, who is summoned to light the fire. The following is our simple plan:—When the fire has become low we stir it together, never turn the large cinders, admit air by. clearing the front of the lower bar, and