FLE FLA [ 508 ] To relieve this complaint such medicines ought to be used as have a tendency to expel wind, and, by strengthening the alimentary canal, to prevent its being produced there. Many nervous people find great benefit from eating a dry biscuit, especially when the stomach is empty. We look upon this as one of the best carminative medicines, and would recommend it in all complaints of the stomach arising from flatulence, indigestion, &c. The list of medicines for expelling wind is very numerous; they often, however, disap- point the expectations of both the physician and his patient. The most celebrated among the class of carminatives are juniper berries; the roots of ginger and zedoary; the seeds of anise, caraway, and coriander; gum asafoetida and opium ; the warm waters, tinctures, and spirits, as the aromatic water, the tincture of wood-soot, the volatile aromatic spirit, ether, &c. With some patients m medicine is more efficacious in expelling wind than ether and laudanum. Give the laudanum in a mixture with peppermint water and tincture of castor, or sweet spirits of nitre: sometimes, in place of this, opium in pills, with asafcetida. The good effects of opiates are equally conspicuous, whether the flatulence be contained in the stomach or intestines; whereas those warm medicines, commonly called carminatives, do not often give immediate relief except when the wind is in the stomach. The dose of ether is a tea-spoonful mixed with two table-spoonsful of water. In gouty cases, ether, a glass of French brandy, or of the aromatic water, or ginger, either taken in substance or infused in boiling water, are among the best medicines for expelling wind. When the case of flatulent patients is such as makes it improper to give them warm medi- cines inwardly, external applications are some- times of advantage. Equal parts of the anti- hysteric and stomach plaster may be spread upon a piece of soft leather, of such size as to cover the greater part of the belly. This should be kept on for a considerable time, provided the patient be able to bear it. If it should give great uneasiness it may be taken ofl^, and the following liniment used in its stead :—Take of Bate's anodyne balsam 1 oz.; of the expressed oil of mace, i oz.; oil of mint, 2 drachms. Let these ingredients be mixed together, and about a table-spoonful well rubbed on the parts at bedtime. For strengthening the stomach and bowels, and consequently for lessening the production of flatulence, Peruvian bark, bitters, chaly- beates, and exercise are good. Some nut- meg or ginger should be added to the tinc- ture of the bark and bitters, and the aromatic powder should be joined with the filings of iron. When windy complaints are attended with costiveuess, which is often the case, few things will be found to answer better than four or five of the following pills taken every night at bed- time :—Take of asafoetida 2 drachms ; Soco- trine aloes, salt of iron, and powdered ginger, of each 1 drachm; as much of the elixir pro- prietatis as will be sufficient to form them into pills. On the other hand, when the body is too open, 12 or 15 grains of rhubarb, with i drachm or 2 scruples of the Japonic confection, given every other evening, will have very good effects. With regard to diet, tea, and likewise all flatulent aliments, are to be avoided; water with a little brandy or rum is not only preferable to malt liquor, but in most cases also to wine. FLEA [Pulex irritans). Want of cleanliness remarkably contributes to the generation of fleas, as the females deposit their eggs, each from twenty to thirty, in damp and filthy places, within the crevices of boards, on rubbish, &c., whence they emerge in the course of six or eight days in the form of greasy whitish maggots. When a fortnight old they envelope themselves in a small chrysalis, from which they sally forth, after ten days' existence, in the form of fleas. In the winter these different transformations require a period of six weeks, but in summer only a month. They probably do not live longer than one year, though it is said that fleas have been kept on little golden chains for six years. As they are able to draw a weight eighty times greater than that of their own body, some frivolous persons have occasionally kept them harnessed to minia- ture carriages, &c. Leaping, also, is a singular proof of their muscular strength, as by pressing the belly downwards, expanding their legs, and then suddenly contracting them, these creatures dart forward to a distance of ten or twelve inches. Children and females are remarkably liable to the attacks of this little enemy, a circum- stance which must be attributed to their more tender skin, their purer blood, longer clothes, and in some individuals, perhaps, to a peculiar state of perspiration. Cleanliness and frequent sprinkling of the room with a simple decoction of wormwood will soon exterminate the whole breed of these troublesome vermin, and the best remedy to expel them from bedclothes is a bag filled with dry moss, the odour of which is to them extremely offensive. Others cover the floors of the rooms where fleas abound with the leaves of the alder tree while the dew is on the foliage, to which these insects fondly adhere, and thus may be easily destroyed. Mercurial ointment, sul-