CUR CUR C 385 ] Older to preveat the skin from being liurt by their pressure." Cupping by which blood is abstracted is used either where general bleeding is unnecessary, or as supplementary to it, for the removal of congestions or local affections. It is analogous to the use of leeches, over which, however, when the situation of the part admits of the application of the glasses, it has in general many advantages. The blood is more rapidly abstracted, a point of great importance in inflammatory diseases ; the quantity removed can be more exactly ascertained; there is less risk of subsequent bleeding from the wounds; and the part of the body subjected to the ope- ration is exposed to the air for a much shorter time. Cupping is also preferable in cases where the application of leeches is followed by severe erysipelas of the skin. " In all inflammations and congestions about the head cupping on the back of the neck and between the shoulders is a most useful mode of abstracting blood; and this operation is also particularly applicable for the removal of blood Irom the parietes of the chest and abdomen in diseases of the different viscera. Its use, how- ever, is only admissible when it can be employed without exciting pain and irritating the diseased organ." Many cases of impending apoplexy may be warded off by the timely application of cupping-glasses to the neck, aided by a quickly- acting cathartic. Where the abstraction of blood is inexpedient or unnecessary dry cupping is often resorted to with benefit. In adynamic states of fever, especially where the lungs are complicated in the diseased action, if " farther depletion cannot be ventured upon, dry cupping on the back or chest will sometimes be ser- viceable."—[Copland's Dictionary of Medicine, p. 930.) Dry cupping often affords great and immediate relief in many pains of the side, not inflammatoi'y, but hysterical, which occur in females. The pains of the back which likewise occur in females at particular times may be much mitigated by dry cupping. Another and most important application of cupping is the prevention by its means of the absorption of poisonous fluids from wounds. For this purpose anything by which a partial vacuum over the wounded part can be produced will answer, such as a wine-glass, tumbler, or tea-cup with a smooth margin, from which the air has been partially expelled by holding it for a moment over a lighted candle. This mode was in use among the ancients, has been re- vived among the moderns, and is practised by the South Americans, in cases of the bites of venomous serpents, by means of a funnel-shaped calabash.—{Penny Cyclopcedia.) CURA<^OA. This is a species of bitter or wild orange, of which the rind is dried, and may be had at the druggist's. To make the liquor called by this name wash 1 lb. of curacoa several times in warm water; then, having well drained it, put it into a vessel with 4 quarts of brandy and 1 quart of water. Let it stand closely covered for a fortnight, shaking it frequently; after that distil it in the usual way, and drain the cura9oa on a sieve ; sweeten with 5 J lbs. of sugar dis- solved in 3 pints of water; mix it with the spirit, and then filter it. CURAgOA : To Make a Qdaet of. To 1 pint of the clearest and strongest rectified spirit add 2^ drachms of sweet oil of orange- peel, and shake it up; dissolve 1 lb. of good lump sugar in 1 pint of cold water; make this into a clarified syrup, which add to the spirit; shake it up, and let it stand till the following day ; then line a funnel with a piece of muslin, and that with filtei'ing paper, and filter it two or three times till it is quite bright. This liquor is an admirable cordial, and a tea-spoonful in a tumbler of water is a very refreshing drink, and a great improvement to punch. CURD CAKES. Take a quart of curds and eight eggs, leaving out four whites ; put in sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little flour; mix these well together, heat butter in a frying-pan, drop the cakes in, and fry like fritters. CURD CHEESECAKES. Put 8ozs. of curd, 10 ozs. of butter, 6 ozs. of sugar, and J lb. of almond paste with orange-flower water and a little cream ; beat them up for a quarter of an hour, and bake it in sweet paste. CURD PUDDING, BOILED. Rub the curd of 2 gallons of milk well drained through a sieve ; then mix it with 6 eggs, a little cream, 2 spoonsful of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg grated, 3 spoonsful of flour, 3 spoonsful of bread crumbs, ^ lb. of currants, and J lb. of raisins stoned. Let it boil for one hour in a thick cloth well floured. CURD PUDDINGS. Turn 2 quarts of milk to curds, press the whey from the curd, and rub it through a sieve ; then add to it 4 ozs. of butter, the crumb of a penny roll, 2 spoons- ful of cream, half a nutmeg grated, a little sugar, and 2 spoonsful of white wine. Butter little cups or small patty pans, and fill them three parts full; bake them carefully, and serve with sweet sauce. CURD PUEFS. Take the curd of two quarts of new milk, and drain it dry; add to it the yolks of seven eggs and the whites of two, sugar, rose water, nutmeg, and bread crumbs ; make into a paste, cut it into what shapes you please, fry them in boiling lard, and serve them with a sauce made of butter, sugar, and white wine. CURD STAR. Put a quart of new milk ovei the fire with a few blades of mace, and when ready 3 c