BEE BEE [ 102 ] Bteaks witli catsup or mushroom powder and liquor, oysters and their liquor, and lemon- juice. Simmer up, and garnish with pickle. BEEFSTEAKS, ROLLED. Take three ' or four large steaks, and flatten them with a cleaver. Make a farce with the flesh of a capon, lean of a fillet of veal, and some gammon of bacon, both fat and lean; add to this the fat of a loin of veal, sweetbreads, young onions, parsley, mushrooms, and truffles, the yolks of four eggs and a little cream. Season all these very well with spices and herbs, and hash them; then strew them on your slices of beef, and roll it up very handsomely, that it may be firm, and of a good size ; then let them stew a good while. When they are sufficiently done, take them up and drain away the fat; then slit them in two, and lay them in a dish, the cut side uppermost, and serve them either with ragoiit or cullis. BEER (for the Table). Take 8 bushels of malt, 8 lbs. of hops, 8 lbs. of sugar, made into colour, 8 ozs. of Spanish liquorice, and 10 lbs. of treacle. The produce is 10 barrels. For the process of making beer, see Brewing, BEER, BARRELING. When the fermen- tation has entirely ceased, bung up the cask. The practice of putting a handful of hops, either in their natural state or previously scalded, into the cask, with a view of fining, is a bad one. The hops are liable to stop up the cock, and besides they do not possess the power of fining the liquor. If the brewing has been correctly performed, it speedily becomes clear, and it only requires age to improve in quality. If the brew- ing has been properly conducted, the liquor will be clear at all events in fourteen days. If it be intended to mantle in the glass, it must be bottled off before the insensible fermentation in the cask has ceased, or, at all events, immedi- ately when it has become bright. The casks should be occasionally examined, especially in warm weather. If a hissing noise is audible at the bung-hole, the spile may be left in loosely till the liquor has become quiet, but it is better to checii the fermentation, which may be done by repeatedly wetting the cask with cold water all over with a mop. The liquor being well prepared and com pletely worked off, it will then be proper to remove it to the place where it is to remain for use. As soon as it is placed in the cellar, the bung must be drawn and the casks filled quite full with fine beer, skimming off the head from time to time that will arise in consequence of their being rolled over. After being attended in this manner for two or three days, the casks should be bunged tight, and a hole bored with a gimlet near the bung for the vent-peg, which should be left rather slack for a day or two. BEER, ELDERBERRY. Take a hogshead of the first and strongest wort, and boil in the same 1 bushel of picked elderberries, fully ripe; strain off, and when cold, work the liquor in the hogshead, and not in an open tun or tub ; and after it has lain in the cask about a year, bottle it, and it will be one of the richest diinks. It is called elbulum, and has been often preferred to port wine for its pleasant taste and healthful quality. There is no occasion for the use of sugar in this undertaking, because the wort has strength and sweetness enough in itself to answer that pur- pose ; but there should be an infusion of hops added to the liquor by way of preservation and relish. Some likewise hang a small bag of bruised spices in the vessel. You may make a white elbulum with pale malt and white elder- berries. BEER, GINGER (1). Take lump sugar, 31bs.; bruised ginger, 2 ozs.; cream of tartar, 1 oz.; sliced lemon, 4 ozs., and pour on them 4 gallons of boiling water. Add i pint of yeast, work the liquor four days, and then bottle it, and tie down the corks. BEER, GINGER (2). Boil in 2 gallons of soft water 3 lbs. of loaf sugar, 1 oz. of tartaric acid, with the rind of a lemon, or 4 large lemons, sliced, and 2 ozs. of ginger powder. Let it simmer slowly to extract the ginger; set and work it as any other beer; bottle it in pint or half-pint bottles. Great care should be taken in cleaning stone bottles; never let lead drops be used to clean any kind, as many lives have been lost by it. Get a bit of cane or pliant wood; split it according to its thickness in four, six, or eight; tie it as a brush; hold the points together till it is put into the neck of the bottle. By using it properly it will scrape out every- thing foul. Imperial Pop is made by mixing cream of tartar, 3 ozs.; ginger, 1 oz.; white sugar, 1^ lb.; lemon-juice, 1 oz.; water, H gallon; yeast, 1 oz. Bottle, and tie down the corks. BEER, POTATO. Dr. Hare, having ob- served that there is a strong analogy between the saccharine matter of the sweet potato and molasses, or the saccharum of malt, was in- duced to boil a wort of 1,000° specific gravity, with a proportionate quantity of hops, for the space of two hours. It was then cooled to about 56° and yeast added. As far as he could judge the phenomena of the fermentation and the resulting liquor were precisely the same as if malt had been used. The wort was kept in a warm place until the temperature was 85°rahr., and the fall of the head showed the fermentation to be sufficient. Yeast subsequently rose, which was removed by a spoon. By refrigeration a further quantity of yeast was precipitated, from which the liquor being decanted became tolerably fine for new beer, and in flavour exactly like that