[ 371 ] ORE remain on the fire till quite hot, hut on no account boil, or there will be a scum instead of cream upon the milk. You will know when it is done enough by the undulations on the surface looking very thick, and having a ring round the pan the size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream depends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire—the slower the better; remove the pan into the dairy, and skim it the next day. la cold weather it may stand thirty-six hours, and never less than two meals. CREAM, DUTCH. Take 1 pint of new milk, 1 pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs, 2 drachms of vanilla, and 5 ozs. of loaf sugar; separate the vanilla, and cut it small; dilute well the yolks of eggs in the milk; mix all together, and, putting it on a gentle fire, stir well with a slice, and when it sticks to it the cream is complete. When cold serve it up. CREAM, EXCELLENT. Whip up three quarters of a pint of very rich cream to a strong froth, with some finely scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze of lemon juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant to the taste; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and the next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with veiy light puff paste biscuits made in tin shapes the length of a finger, and about two thick, over which should be strewed sugar or a little glaze with isinglass. The edges of the dish may be lined with macaroons. CREAM OF FLOWERS. Take roses, violets, jasmines, pinks, and orange flowers ; pound them, adding a little warm milk; press them in a clean cloth, and mix them with a pint of well-boiled cream; add the yolks of six eggs and sugar; strain, and put it into a dish on hot ashes; cover, lay more coals on the top, and let it stand till thick, when it should be set out to cool. CREAM, FRENCH (au Marasquin). Boil 4 glasses of milk, and then mix it by degi'ees with the yolks of 8 eggs, 10 ozs. of sugar, and a grain of salt; put these ingredients into a saucepan over a moderate fire, stirring con- stantly ; when it begins to simmer strain it; add 6 drachms of isinglass to it. As soon as it is cold put in half a glass of good maraschino, and complete the operation according to direction {see Chocolate Cream, French). You may vary this recipe by putting in half a glass of arrack or rum instead of the maraschino. CREAM, FRIED. Mix gradually into a stewpan about three spoonsful of flour, with si.v eggs (both the whites and yolks), a little grated lemon-peel, some dried orange flowers shred finely, a pint of milk, a small lump of sugar, and a few grains of salt; boil the whole over a slow fire for half an hour, keeping con- stantly stirring. When the cream is very thick spread it about the thickness of half an inch upon a floured dish, and shake some flour over it. When cold you may cut it into any form you please, and i'ly in a very hot pan; glaze with sugar and a salamander. CREAM, FRIED (Parisian). Mate your cream, with the addition of six eggs, exactly the same as Cream au Bain-marie. When quite cold cut it into pieces of whatever forms you choose, either round, square, oval, &c.; but do not make them above two inches long, or three quarters of an inch thick. Make a batter as follows:—Put f lb. of sifted flour into a pan; pour on it a little water, in which 2 ozs. of butter have been melted; hold the saucepan slanting, and blow the water aside, so as to pour the butter in first; then add a sufficient quantity of water to make your batter of a proper con- sistence ; when it will flow and quit the spoon readily put in a pinch of salt and the whites of two eggs whipped firmly. Make your frying- pan quite hot, dip your cream into the batter, and fry it of a good colour; drain the pieces, sprinkle them with powder sugar, and glaze them with the salamander. CREAM FRITTERS. Mix a handful of flour with three whole eggs and the yolks of six, four pounded macaroons, some dried orange flowers browned in sugar, a little candied lemon- peel chopped very fine, ^ pint of cream, ^ pint of milk, and a lump of sugar; boil the whole over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, till the cream turns to a thick paste; then let it cool in a dish well floured, shaking flour all over it. When cold cut the paste into small pieces, roll them in your hands till they become round, and fry them of a good colour; when you serve them powder them all over with sugar. CREAM FROTH. Put 1 pint of fresh double cream into a stone pan, with ^ lb. of powder sugar, a pinch of gum dragon, a little crisped orange flower, and 3 drops of cedrat essence. When the sugar is dissolved place the pan in another, in which are 3 lbs. of ice beaten up with saltpetre ; whip the cream in the usual manner, taking off the cream as it rises with a skimmer; lay it gently on a sieve over a pan ; if the cream does not form properly add the whites of two eggs. This cream is usually served in large silver or gilt goblets, and should be prepared two or three hours before it is wanted. CREAM FOR FRUIT PIES OR TARTS. Boil a bit of lemon or Seville orange-peel, a little cinnamon, 2 laurel leaves, 12 coriander seeds, two or three cloves, 1 blade of mace, and 1 pint of new milk ; then put into another stewpan the yolks of 3 eggs beaten up with a little milk, and i spoonful of flour; strain, and stir the hot milk in; set it over the , fire, begin whisking I