C 100 ] BEE BEE ■with tte beef into a stewpan, without water, over a slow fire for an hour; then pour over it 2 quarts of boiling water; let it stew till the meat is tender, and if you have not sufBcient soup add more water. When the beef is tender enough, take out all the best parts, and let the rest stew with the herbs till quite a rag ; then strain the liquor off and add to it some herbs, stewed in a pan by themselves with a little water; the carrots, &c., must be cut about an inch long; the water they are stewed in must be put in the soup ; then let your beef and all be stewed together, but it must not quite boil. Let it be nicely skimmed. BEEF, SOUSED. Take either buttock, chuck, or brisket of beef, and season with salt and pepper for four days ; then roll it up as even as you can, tie a cloth fast about it, and boil it in water and salt till it is tender; then souse it in water and vinegar, and a little white wine and salt; put it into a hook frame to form it round and upright; then dry it in some smoky place or in the air. When you wish to use it, cut it out in slices, and serve it with sugar and mustard. BEEF, SPICED (To be eaten cold). Hang up 10 lbs. or 12 lbs. of the middle part of a brisket of beef three or four days, and then rub well into it 3 ozs. of finely-pounded saltpetre ; and, if spice is approved of, 1 oz. of allspice and ^ oz. of black pepper; let it stand all night; then rub it with 3 lbs. of well-pounded bay salt, and i lb. of treacle, in which it should remain ten days, rubbing it daily. When it is to be boiled, sew it closely in a cloth; let the water only simmer—upon no account allow- ing it to boil—for nine hours over a slow fire or upon a stove. When taken out of the water, place two sticks across the pot, and let the beef stand over the steam half an hour, turning it from side to side ; then press it with a heavy weight. It must not be taken out of the cloth till perfectly cold. BEEF, STEWED. Stew in 5 quarts of water the middle part of a brisket of beef, weighing 10 lbs.; add 2 onions, stuck with 2 cloves, 1 head of celery, 1 large carrot, 2 tur- nips, cut small, 1 handful of sorrel leaves, ^ oz. of black pepper, and some salt. Stew it gently for six hours. Make a strong gravy with carrots and turnips, the turnips to be scraped and fried of a brown colour in ^butter ; add pepper, salt, and a little Cayenne ; thicken it with flour and butter, and pour it over the beef with the carrots and turnips. BEEF STOCK (1). This is made from the legs, shin, and scrags of beef or any bones that can be spared ; chop them into pieces, wash them, and put them in a large pot on the fire, filled half with cold and half with hot water; it must be closely attended to when it begins to boil, in order to take off the scum; then set it on one side of the stove to boil gently, and put in three or four carrots, well scraped and washed, onions, parsley, peppercorns, salt, and one clove of garlic ; put the cover on, and carefully skim it when wanted. When the meat has boiled to pieces, run the liquor through a sieve the same as a consomme. This serves for plain hashes, or to reduce the glaze for vegetable soups, &c., if required. BEEF STOCK (2). Put chuck beef, cut in pieces, into a pot; set it on the fire with water enough to cover it. When boiling, skim it clean ; add a bunch of parsley and thyme, car- rots, leeks, onions, turnips, celery, and a little salt; boil the meat until it is tender, skim off the fat, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. BEEF SUET AND MARROW. To use suet and marrow, all the skin and sinews should be picked out very carefully. The suet is used for most forcemeats; and the marrow for pai'- ticular occasions, and is extremely good to put into braises, being very nourishing. If you wish to use marrow instead of butter, soak it in luke- warm water, turning and pressing it with your hands to render it soft and to squeeze out the water. BEEF TEA. Cut 1 lb. of lean gravy meat into thin slices ; put it into 2^ pints of cold water; set it over a gentle fire where it will become gradually warm. When the scum rises let it continue simmering gently for about an hour; then strain it through a fine sieve or napkin, let it stand ten minutes to settle, and then pour off the clear tea. An onion and a few grains of black pepper are sometimes added. If the meat is boiled till it is thoroughly tender, you may mince it, and pound it, and make of it potted beef. BEEFINGS, or Biffins, are a variety of apples called the Norfolk heejing, baked in ovens and flattened in tins to the form of small round cakes. BEEFSTEAK PIE (1). Cut the steaks off a rump, or any nice piece of beef, fat and lean together, about half an inch tliick; beat them a little with a rolling-pin; put over them some salt, pepper, and parboiled onion, minced; roll them up and pack them neatly in the dish, or lay the beef in slices; add some spoonsful of gravy and a tea-spoonful of vinegar. Cover the pie with a puff-paste and bake it an hour. It is a common but mistaken opinion that it is necessai-y to put stock or water into meat- pies. Beef, mutton, veal, and pork, if not pre- viously dressed, will be found to yield a suffi- ciency of gravy, and the pie will be better without any additional liquid. Large oysters parboiled, bearded, and laid alternately with the