CAN CAN [ 222 ] increasGd tlie dose to 2, 3, or 4 drachms a day, mi finds that such doses may be continued for several weeks without any bad consequences. The regimen which the doctor recommends during the use of the medicine is, to avoid farinaceous substances not fermented, and too acrid aromatics. He says good wine will not be hurtful to those who are accustomed to it, nor a moderate use of acids; and adds that the patient should live in a pure, free air, and keep his mind as quiet and cheerful as possible. The doctor does not pretend to fix the time in which a cancer may be resolved by the use of hemlock, but says he has given it for above two years in lai'ge doses without any apparent benefit; nevertheless the patient has been cured by per- sisting in the use of it for half a year longer. This is at least encouragement to give it a fair trial. Though we are far from thinking the hemlock merits those extravagant encomia which the doctor has bestowed upon it, yet, in a disease which has so long baffled the boasted powers of medicine, we think it ought always to be tried, at least during the occult or scir- rhous state. Deadly nightshade and henbane are medicines of the same class with hemlock, and the timely use of them has sometimes proved advantageous in glandular tumours and indura- tions that are likely to become cancerous. These have also been employed with others of the narcotic class, in external applications, as well as the hemlock. When used in this way tho leaves may be boiled in milk, so as to form a decoction sufficiently strong with which the part is to be frequently fomented. The powder of hemlock is by some preferred to the extract. They are both made of the fresh leaves, and may be used nearly in the same manner. Dr. Nicholson, of Berwick, says he gradually increased the dose of the powder from a few grains to half a drachm, and gave nearly four drachms of it in a day with remarkably good effects. The hemlock may also be used externally either as a poultice or fomentation. The sore may likewise be kept clean by injecting daily a strong decoction of the tops of leaves into it. Few things contribute more to the healing of foul, sordid ulcers of any kind than keeping Ihem thoroughly clean. This ought never to be neglected. The best application for this purpose seems to be-the carrot poultice. The root of the common carrot may be grated and moistened with as much water as will bring it to the consistence of a poultice. This must be applied to the sore and renewed twice a day. It generally cleans the sore, eases the pain, and takes away the disagreeable smell, which are objects of no small importance in such a disorder. In every species of open cancer the air should be excluded as much as possible. A donblfl covering of oil-silk may therefore be applied over the dressings. Wort, or an infusion of malt, has been recom- mended, not only as a proper drink, but as a powerful medicine in this disease. It must be frequently made fresh, and the patient may take it at pleasure. Two, three, or even four English pints of it may be drank every day for a con- siderable time. No benefit can be expected from any medicine in this disease, unless it be per- sisted in for a long time. It is of too obstinate a nature to be soon removed ; and, when it admits of a cure at all, it must be brought about by inducing an almost total change of the habit, which must always be a work of time. Setons, or issues in the neighbourhood of the cancer, have sometimes good effects. A cancerous ulcer of the tongue has been cured by nitric acid and opium, which had resisted various remedies. Take diluted nitric acid, 1 oz.; honey, 2 ozs.; pure watei', 2 pints; mix. Three table- spoonsful are to be taken frequently throughout the day. An opiate was given at night; and the acid, to prevent it from corroding the teeth, was directed to be sucked through a tube. In fourteen days after the exhibition of this medi- cine, healthy granulations were seen to shoot out from the bottom of the ulcer, which gradu- ally healed from this time; and in the course of three months, although half the tongue had been in a state of ulceration, was perfectly healed. Nothing was applied to the diseased part, but a lotion composed of the extract of hemlock, rectified spirit and water, to which little or no ef&cacy was ascribed. As a topical application in external cancer, such as of the lip, breast, &c., lint dipped in a solution of borax and applied to the ulcerated surface, removing it as often as it becomes dry, has been frequently attended with a good effect. Take solution of subborate of soda, 3 drachms; extract of henbane, 2 drachms ; distilled water, made warm, 8 ozs. Make a lotion to be applied to the part affected. When all other medicines fail recourse must be had to opium as a kind of solace. This wiU not, indeed, cure the disease, but it will ease the patient's agony, and render life more tolerable while it continues. To avoid this disorder people ought to use wholesome food; to take sufficient exercise in the open air; to be as easy and cheerful as possible; and carefully to guard against all blows, bruises, and every kind of pressure upon the breasts or other glandular parts. CANDIED FRUITS AND FLOWERS. The first step in this process is to clarify the sugar, which is done thus:—Take the finest kind, break it into large lumps, and put it into a