[ 202 J CAK CAK the juice of the herbs and flowers only;—sweet marjoram, red roses, marigold, cloves, gilliflowers, and bluebottle berries, all clijjped from the white. When you have made all your colours ready, have to every one a little rolliug-pin and a knife, or else the colours will mix. First lay a white and then a colour ; then a white again, for two colours will not do well; so roll them up, and cut them the size of a sixpence ; but in what form you please, minding they are rolled very thin. CAKE, HEART. With your hand work 1 lb. of butter to a cream; then put to it the yolks of 12 and only the whites of 6 eggs well beaten; 1 lb. of dried flour, 1 lb. of sifted sugar, 4 spoonsful of good brandy, and 1 lb. of currants washed and dried before the fire. As the pans are filled put in 2 ozs. of candied orange and citron, and continue beating the cake till you put it into the oven. This quantity will be sufficient to fill three dozen middling-sized pans. CAKE, HONEYCOMB. Boil your sugar to a candy height; then put in your flowers, which must be cut. Have little papers with four corners ready ; drop some of the candy on the papers ; take some of them off when ready, and if they are rightly done they will look full of holes like honeycombs. CAKE, HYDE PARK. Take 2 lbs. of flour. 4 ozs. of common sugar, and ^ oz. of caraway seeds pounded; then set a sponge with | gill of yeast and a little warm milk ; when it, works take some boiling milk, add to it 5 ozs. of fresh butter, mix it up lightly, and let it be some time ; then roll it out, cut it into any form, and bake it in a moderate oven. CAKE, ICE-CREAM. Stir together till very light J lb. of powdered sugar and J lb. of fresh butter. Beat 6 eggs, and stir into them i pint of rich milk. Add gradually the eggs and milk to the butter and sugar, alternately, with i lb. of sifted flour. Add a glass of sweet wine and some grated nutmeg. When all the ingredients are mixed stir the batter very hard; then put it into small deep pans or cups that have been well buttered, filling them about two- thirds with the batter; set them immediately into a brisk oven and bake them brown. When done remove them from the cups, and place them to cool on an inverted sieve. When quite cold make a slit or incision in the side of each cake. If very light and properly baked, they will be hollow in the middle. Fill up this cavity with ice-cream, carefully put in with a spoon, and then close the slit with your fingers to prevent the cream running out. Spread them on a large dish. Either send them to table immediately, before the ice-cream melts, or keep them on ice till wanted. CAKE, LEMON. Put 3 spoonsful of rose water or orange-flower water to the whites of 10 eggs and beat them an hour; then put in 1 lb. of powdered and sifted sugar, and grate in the rind of a lemon. When mixed add the juice of half a lemon and the yolks of 10 eggs beaten smooth. Stir in f lb. of flour, butter a pan, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. Orange cakes are made in the same manner. CAKE, LIQUORICE. Take hyssop and red rose water, of each -J pint; ^ lb. of green liquorice, the outside scraped off, and then beat with a pestle; put to it J lb. of aniseed and steep it all night in the water; boil it with a gentle fire till the taste is well out of the liquorice; strain it, put to it 3 lbs. of liquorice powder, and set it on a gentle fire till it becomes of the thickness of cream; take it off and put to it ■^Ib. of white sugar-candy seared very fine; beat this well together for at least three hours, and never suffer it to stand still; as you beat it you must strew in it double-refined sugar finely seared, at least 3 lbs. Half an hour before it is finished put in ^ spoonful of gum dragon, steeped in orange-flower water. When it is very white then it is beaten enough. Roll it up with white sugar, and if you want it perfumed put in a pastil or two. CAKE, MADISON. Pick clean 2 lbs. of sultana raisins (those that have no seeds) and cut them in half. If you cannot procure the sultana, use the bloom or muscatel raisins, removing all the seeds. When the raisins are cut in two, dredge them thickly on all sides with flour, to prevent their sinking or clodding in the cake while baking. Sift into a pan If lb. of flour, not more. Cut up 1 lb. of fresh butter iuLo a deep pan, mix with it 1 lb. of white lump sugar finely-powdered, and stir them together till they become thick white cream. Have ready a tea-spoonful of powdered nutmeg and a table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and mix these spices gradually into the beaten butter and sugar, alternately with the flour and a pint of rich milk (sour milk will be best). Add at the last a very small tea-spoonful of pearlash or of bicarbonate of soda, dissolved in a large wine-glass of brandy. Give the whole a hard stirring, and then put it immediately into a deep, circular pan, the sides and bottom of which have been first well greased with fresh butter. Set it directly into a well-heated oven, and let it bake from five to six hours, according to size. It requires long and steady baking. When cold cover it, top and sides, with a thick icing, made in the usual way of beaten white of egg and sugar, and flavoured with rose water or lemon. CAKE, MAGDALEN (sometimes called Maudlin). Take the same weight of flour, sugar, butter, and eggs ; (in geneial 8 eggs are sufficient for an entremet); put in a little salt 4