CAK CAC [ 197 ] onion, garlic, or any other powder. Fry them in butter. Dish them in parsley over spinach in any rich sauce, or stick tliem into cold dressed dishes as a garnish. CACAO. Cacao, or chocolate, a kind of cake or hard paste the basis of which is the pulp of the cacao, or chocolate-nut, a production of the West Indies and South America. The cacao tree (Theobvoma cacao), both in size and shape, somewhat resembles a young cherry tree, but separates into four or five stems. The leaves are about four inches in length, smooth, but not glossy, and of a dull green colour. The flowers are saffron-coloured and beautiful. The fruit resembles a cucumber in shape, but is furrowed deeply. Its colour while growing is green, but as it ripens it changes to a fine bluish red, almost purple, with pink veins ; or, in some of the varieties, to a delicate yellow or lemon. Each of these pods contains from twenty to thirty nuts, or kernels, which in shape are like sweet almonds, and consist of a white and sweet pulpy sub- stance in a parchment-like shell. These are the cacao or chocolate-nuts. Plantations of cacao are numerous on the banks of the river Mag- dalena, in South America. They are usually formed in morassy situations, and are sheltered from the intense heat of the sun by larger trees, which are planted with them. There are two principal crops of cacao in the year: the first in June, the second in December. As soon as the fruit is ripe it is gathered and cut in slices, and the nuts, which are at this time in a pulpy state, are taken out and laid in skins or on leaves to be dried. They have now a sweetish, acid taste, and may be eaten like any fruit. When perfectly dry they are put in bags for exportation. Previously to being formed into chocolate these nuts are generally toasted, or put over the fire in an iron vessel, after which process their thin external covering is easily separated. The kernel is then pounded in a mortar, and subsequently ground on a smooth, warm stone. Sometimes a little anotta is added, and, with the aid of water, the whole is formed into a paste. This is put while hot into tin moulds, where in a short time it congeals, and in this state it is chocolate of the shops. In South America and Spain other modes are adopted; the chocolate is mixed with sugar, long pepper, vanilla, cinnamon, cloves, almonds, and other ingredients, according to the taste of the respective customers. Edwards was of opinion that the cakes of chocolate used in England were made of about one-half genuine cacao, and the remainder of flour or Castile soap. That from Caraccas is considered the best. By the natives of South America the chocolate-nuts are used as food. A white, oily matter, about the consistence of suet, is also obtained by bruising them and boiling tho pulp. The oil is by this means liquefied and rises to the surface, where it is left to cool and congeal that it may be easily separated. This, which is called batter of cacao, is without smell, and when fresh has a very mild taste. Its principal use is as an ingredient in pomatums. From the nuts, when slightly roasted, oil is sometimes obtained by pressure. CAJEPUT OIL. This is obtained by distil- lation from the dried leaves of the cajeput tree (Melaleuca cajeputi), a native of the Molucca Islands. It is green, very limpid, smells like camphor, and has a pungent taste like that of cardamoms. It is highly stimulating, and is ad- ministered in hysteria, epilepsy, flatulent colic, and paralysis of the tongue. The dose is from 1 to 4 drops on a lump of sugar. In acute rheumatism and the gout this ethereal oil has been known to afford immediate relief, when the affected part has been anointed with it, as it has a remarkable tendency to open the pores. It is also highly beneficial in violent headaches when applied to the temples or inhaled through the nostrils. But its most remarkable efi"ect is in that painful complaint—the toothache. From whatever cause this affection may proceed, whether from a carious or hollow tooth, rheu- matic acrimony, catarrh, &c., the cajeput oil has generally been found efBcacious in removing it, if dropped on lint and placed in the cavity of the tooth, or even around the gum. Hence it deserves to have a place in the medicine chest of every private family. In acute rheumatisms, however, we would observe that it ought to be administered with circumspection; but, when applied in painful chronic disorders, or paralytic complaints, its use may be attended with salutary consequences. CAKES. In the manufacture of cakes it is indispensable that all the ingredients should be heated before they are mixed; for this pur- pose everything should be prepared an hour before the time it is wanted, and placed near the fire or upon a stove—the flour thoroughly dried and warmed ; the currants, sugar, caraway seeds, and anything else required, heated in the same way ; butter and eggs should be beaten in basins fitted into kettles or pans of warm water, which will give them the requisite degree of temperature. Without these precautions cakes will be heavy, and the best materials, with the greatest pains, will fail to produce the desired results. Have your pans buttered, your sugar and flour sifted and weighed, your butter washed and weighed, your eggs counted ready to bo broken, the spices and fruit all ready. Uso wooden or earthen in preference to tin vessels to make your cake in. Put your eggs into cold water some time before