BRE See t 163 j cause a paroxysm of pain, as walking, riding, coughing, sneezing, or speaking; passions of the mind also have the same tendency. In the first stage the uneasy and threatening symptoms go off soon, but afterwards they are longer and more distressing, and give the patient the fear of immediate dissolution. During the fit the pulse is feeble and irregular, the face pale and covered with a cold sweat, and the patient appears as if in a fit of apoplexy, without the power of sense or motion. The disease makes occasional attacks for years, and at last suddenly puts a period to the patient's life. The disease is believed to be chiefly owing to a diseased state of the vessels which nourish the heart, by which its powers are weakened, and it is rendered unable to empty itself properly; so that upon any exertion of body or mind, by which the blood is sent back to the heart more quickly than usual, that organ is unable to send it through the lungs, and hence the distressful symptoms above noted. The cure and preven- tion consists in diminishing the quantity of blood (to be moved by small bleedings), and by avoiding everything that would quicken the circulation. In the fit stimuli must be very cautiously em- ployed, the head and temples bathed with cold water and vinegar, a slight bleeding should be used to relieve the overloaded heart, gentle pressure employed on the left side to empty the heart, and on the appearance of returning re- spiration ammonia is to be applied to the nose. The use of wine or spirits seems rather a hazardous practice. The disease has been miti- gated by forming issues in some part of the body ; also by blisters or tartar emetic ointment applied to the chest. Prevention. The patient should carefully shun all mental irritation, and every gust of passion that would hurry the circulation. Moderate exercise should be daily taken in the open air, but no violent exertion should be ventured on ; and all attempts at going up a rising ground should be avoided or made with the utmost care. The food should be plain and easily digestible, such as is not liable to occasion flatulence. Fermented liquors are improper. On any ap- proach to fulness of blood animal food should be withdrawn from the diet, and mild saline purgatives frequently taken. A perpetual blister or other irritation in the region of the heart is useful, and warm bathing to the feet and legs may help still further to prevent the undue flow to the other parts of the body. BREAST, INB'LAMMATION OF. When an inflammation happens in the breast, attended with redness, hardness, and other symptoms of suppuration, the safest application is a poultice of bread and milk softened with oil or fresh butter. This may be renewed twice a day till the tumour be either discussed or brought to suppuration. The use of repellents in this case is very dangerous; they often occasion fevers and sometimes cancers; whereas a sup- puration is seldom attended with any danger, and has often the most salutary effects. Fretted or chapped nipples. When the nipples are fretted or chapped, they may be anointed with a mixture of oil and beeswax, or a little powdered gum arable may be sprinkled on them. Should the complaint prove obstinate, a cooling aperient may be given, which generally removes it. The nipple should be well-dried and powdered over with fullers' earth after suckling. BREATH, OFFENSIVE. If it originate from hollow teeth care should be taken that no fragments of provisions, and especially cheese, remain in them after eating. Hence the mouth ought to be washed or properly rinsed after every meal with tepid water, or lukewarm camo- mile tea. A similar precaution is necessary when the teeth are carious, or the gums in a, flaccid and spongy state; but if the lungs or other organs of respiration be diseased due re- gard ought to be paid to the primary affection, of which we shall treat under the head of Pulmo- nary Consumption. In this case, as well as in some peculiar habits, where the real case of fetid gums cannot be easily ascertained, the skill of the practitioner is frequently baffled ; yet we shall venture to suggest a remedy which has, in a great variety of instances, been attended with the desired effect. Many persons afflicted with that disagreeable complaint are also subject to habitual costiveness, which cannot in general be relieved without administering laxatives. These, by relaxing the bowels, ultimately tend to injure the constitution. On the other hand, we have observed from experience that finely-powdered charcoal, newly prepared and kept in close vessels, has a remarkable tendency to open the bowels, without inducing an extraordinary de- gree of weakness, especially if it be mixed with the syrup of yellow roses. For this purpose a table-spoonful of each, diluted with a little water, should be taken two or three times every day, according to circumstances. Thus, if the patient abstain for some time from the use of animal food, the most distressing costiveness may be gradually relieved with perfect safety to the constitution ; while the carbon acts on the whole system as the most effectual antiseptic with which we are acquainted. To increase the effect of this mild medicine a tea-spoonful of squill vine- gar may occasionally be added to each dose, to- gether with a little cinnamon or other aromatic water. The best palliatives for sweetening an offensive breath are gargles consisting simply of lime-water, or a decoction of the Peruvian bark, or a liquor made by mixing 2 ozs. of compouud