FRI [ 5-28 ] FRI not deserve tlie extravagant encomiums which have heea bestowed on it. It has been cele- brated under the different names of The Com- manders Balsam, Persian Balsam-, Balsam of Berne, Wade's Balsam, Jesuits'' Drops, Turling- ton's Drops, &c. FRIAR'S CHICKEN. Put 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal into four quarts of water; boil it gently for two hours ; sti'ain it off; cut three chickens or two joung fowls into joints ; skin them, and when the broth boils put them in; season with white pepper and salt; let them boil a short time, and add a handful of parsley chopped small. When the chickens are boiled tender have ready si.'c or seven well-beaten eggs, and stir them quickly into the broth one way immediately before taking it off the fire. This broth may be made entirely of veal instead of ctiicltGns. FRICANDEAU OF BEEF. Cut some slices of beef in lengths of five or six inches, and half an inch thick; lard them with bacon, dredge them well with flour, and set them before a brisk fire to brown; then put them into a tossing pan, with one quart of gravy, a few trufSes and morels, and half a lemon; let them stew half an hour, and then add a spoon- ful of catsup, as much browning, and a little Cayenne pepper; thicken your sauce, and pour it over the beef with forcemeat balls, and the yolks of hard eggs laid round the dish. FRICANDEAU OF PIGEONS. Truss them as for a pie, with their legs under their wings; lard them with bacon, and lay them in a stewpan, with the larded side downwards ; add the white of a leek cut small, and a pint of gravy; cover the pan, and set it over a slow fire, but towards the close make it brisker to reduce the liquor. When brown take out the pigeons, remove the fat, add some more gravy boiling hot, stir it three or four minutes, and pour it over the birds. Garnish with crisped parsley. FRICANDEAU OF TRIPE. Take some white tripe, and cut it in long strips ; make some forcemeat of veal well pounded, and seasoned with white pepper, salt, and nutmeg; add a little of the fat of the veal, and work the whole together with a raw egg. Spread a little of the egg over the inside of the tripe, and lay some of the forcemeat on each piece ; then roll and tie it up; lard the pieces thoroughly, glaze them with egg, and dredge over them a little flour; fry them in dripping, or do them in a Dutch oven before the fire. Serve them up with crisped parsley. The tripe must be boiled till very tender. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Cut slices of veal half an inch thick, lard them with small cardoon?, dish them with flour, and put them before the fire to bi'oil till brown; then put them into a tossing pan with a quart of gravy, and let them stew half an hour; put in two tea-spoonsful of lemon pickle, as much browning, a slice of lemon, a little anchovy and Cayenne, with a few morels and truffles. When tender take them up, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, strain it off, and pour it over the veal. Garnish with sliced lemon. FRICANDELLANS. Mince about 2 lbs. of tender lean beef, and \ lb. of fresh suet; then pound it till it is as smooth as a paste, and carefully pick out all the threads and sinews; add four well-beaten eggs, half a pint of rich cream, and as much grated and sifted bread as will make it sufficiently consistent to form into rolls resembling corks, and season it with salt and pepper. Boil the corks in some good stock, or in boiling water. FRICASSEE, BROWN. Take two or three young rabbits, cut them in pieces, and stew them in gravy made of beef, some whole pepper, two shallots, one or two anchovies, a piece of horseradish, and a little sweet marjoram powdered small. Stew the rabbits about a quarter of an hour ; then take them out of the gravy, strain the liquor, fry your rabbits in lard or butter, and add a glass of claret. You may fry some forcemeat balls, made with the livers of the rabbits parboiled, a little parsley shred small, some nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, a few bread crumbs, and two buttered eggs; mix all these together, make them up into balls, dip them in the yolk of egg, and roll them in flour; then fry them, and garnish your dish with them, fried parsley, and sliced lemon. FRICASSEE, WHITE. Cut a couple of rabbits in pieces, and let them soak in warm water to cleanse them from the blood ; then lay them in a cloth to dry, put them into a stewpan with milk and water, and let them stew till they are tender; then take a clean pan, and put into it half a pint of cream and \ lb, of butter; stir them well together till the butter is melted; be careful to keep it constantly stirring, or it will be greasy; put in the rabbits; take a little dried mace, a little pounded nutmeg, and a few mushrooms ; shake them together for a few minutes, and then put them to the rabbits. You may add white wine if you choose. FRICTION of the body, which can be per- formed either by the naked hand, a piece of flannel, or still better by a flesh-brush, is one of the most gentle and useful species of exercise. The whole body may be subjected to this mild operation, but principally the abdomen, the spine, the arms, and legs. It clears the skin, resolves stagnating humours, promotes perspi-