[ 255 ] CEL CEL be properly ventilated, and, as repose is a grand requisite in the preservation of wines, a cellar under the house ought always to be preferred to one under the street; it must be kept constantly clean, free from cobwebs, and care must be taken that cats cannot enter and deposit their filth in it. Any unpleasant smell in the cellar when wines are bottling is calculated to spoil them, so delicate are the finer kinds, and so susceptible of combining with any offensive odours in the atmosphere. The cellar ought to be of an equal temperature all the year round. If damp it is very injurious to their quality. In this case they ought to be ranged in the bins, at least three inches from the wall, and the first layer on pieces of wood, so as not to touch the ground; and, if the cellar be very damp, the roof and walls ought to be covered with lead (that of the tea chests will do), so that all the humidity may be col- lected, and a channel ought to be made to carry it off out of the cave. Count Chaptal, in his "Art of Making Wines," thus expresses him- self in the care to be taken in the choice of a cellar:— 1. The ventilators ought to be to the north, as the temperature is then less variable than when the openings are towards the south. 2. It ought to be deep enough for the tem- peratm'e to be always the same, namely, between 55° and 60°. 3. The moisture ought to be regular without being excessive. When too damp the paper, corks, and casks become mouldy; if too dry the casks will give way, and the wine will exude. 4. The light ought to be moderate ; a strong light dries too much, and absolute darkness, or nearly so, rots everything. 5. The cellar ought to be free from all shocks. Motion, sudden agitation, or the shaking by the passage of carriages in the street, stirs up the lees, which incorporate again with the wine and remain suspended in it, and thereby often turn the wine sour. Thunder, and all sudden shocks, are calculated to produce the same effect. 6. Green wood, vinegar, and all matters sus- ceptible of fermentation, ought carefully to be kept at a distance from the cellar. 7. The sun's rays, if they enter a cellar, change the temperature and alter the proper- ties of the wine. 8. Hence a good cellar ought to be several fathoms under ground, its opening towards the north, and out of the way of streets, roads, workshops, sewers, currents of water, water- closets, wood cellars, &c., and vaulted. If the cellar be very damp the wine in wood ought to be placed at a considerable distance from the ground, which must constantly be swept clean. The casks must be examined from time to time, and especially at the equinoxes; the staves may appear quite good at the top, while the bottom staves are quite rotten. The humidity may be lessened by increasing the air apertures, and by the method we have already laid down. When the cellar is of a proper temperature the ullage in a hogshead of wine will not be above two or three glasses a month; but, if the cellar be too dry, the evaporation will sometimes be as much as two bottles a month. The cellar may be rendered less dry by lessening the admission of air. Very damp cellars in marshy ground, and in- fected by bad smells, will spoil all French wines, even those in bottle. Cellars covered with sand are very good for wines in bottle. A good brewer, cellarman, &c., will take delight in the well ordering of his cellar. At- tention must be paid to cleanliness, both in his person and business; everything in the cellar, consequently, should be kept in due order. The brewer or cellarman to the nobleman or gentle- man who maintains a large establishment should occupy himself every morning in the cellars. The following duties are incumbent:—During the summer months have the beer cellars and stairs cleanly washed weekly, and particularly under the casks. Empty the tap-tubs daily into a cask kept for the purpose of containing the slops and grounds, for the cellars, on open- ing, should always smell pure and sweet. By attention to these ofiices the cellars are not only pleasing to enter, but the beer is kept fine and cool during the hot months; whereas, by inat- tention to cleanliness, a filthy cellar will cause the beer to turn sour. During the winter months scraping and sweeping out the cellars once a week will be sufficient. Observe, all cellars in the winter cannot be kept too close and warm, for without great attention to this point the liquors cannot thrive. The following necessaries should be provided for cellars to large establishments. Those fami- lies who brew on a small scale will apply their uses according to their proportionate conve- nience :—Suitable shot, and lead canister with holes at the bottom, and two cloths to wash bottles to be kept in the bottle-rack. Two suitable tubs for washing bottles only, with a form to stand on. Six strain cocks, bungs, corks, vent-pegs, and a mallet. A pair of pliers to draw pegs, and a cork-drawer. A leather boot to buckle on the knee, to contain the bottles v/hilst corking them, for if the bottle breaks the boot saves the liquor. A strong, heavy mahogany cork-driver. Six strong prickles, to be kept in a dry place. Coarse linen to put under the bungs; the old hop sacks will serve. Six tin spouts the size of a beer-cock, made at the lower end as broad as a banker's shovel at the bottom for the beer to work through from