[ 323 ] coc COC parboiled the cocks' combs, open tbem at the largest end, and fill them with forcemeat. Stew them gently half an hour in rich gravy, to which add the yolk of an egg well beaten in gravy, some salt, and fresh or pickled mushrooms, or both if you think proper. COCKS' COMBS (Fricasseed). Put a slice of ham into a stevvpan, with mushrooms, sweet herbs, cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, and butter. When they have soaked together a short time add a little flour and some broth, and then strain it. In the meantime scald the cocks' combs, and boil them in broth with a few slices of lemon; put them into the above sauce, and thicken it with cream and yolks of eggs; flavour it with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and serve with any sauce you please. Garnish your dish with forcemeat balls, hard eggs, or small onions. COCKS' COMBS AND KIDNEYS (in Aspic). Place an aspic mould in a vessel full of pounded ice. Pour into this mould some aspic about an inch thick, and ornament it according to your fancy with truffles, the whites of hard eggs, gherkins, crayfish tails, and cocks' kidneys. When that is done pour in a little more aspic, taking care not to derange the ornaments. As soon as it is set fill up your mould with the cocks' combs and kidneys, leaving a small place at the top, which fill up with aspic. When wanted for table dip the mould into warm water an instant, and then take it out; through a reed blow away whatever pieces of jelly may remain about the dish ; dry it, and serve with the sauce of a chicken fricassee reduced to a jelly, and thickened with the yolks of 4 eggs; strain it, and add 12 champignons ti'immed and done up in butter and lemon juice. Small moulds may be used instead of this large one. COCKS' COMBS (Pickled). Scald the cocks' combs, take off the skins, and stew them for half an hour in white wine vinegar, with cloves, mace, allspice, whole pepper, bay leaves, and bay salt; then put them in a jar, and when cold cover them with mutton suet, and tie them tightly over. When they are wanted take them out of the pickle, and lay them in warm water for an hour. COCOA. See Cacao and Chocolate. COCOA-NUT CAKE. Cut up and peel some pieces of very ripe cocoa-nut; lay the pieces for awhile in water; then take them out, wipe them very dry, and grate very finely as much as ■when grated will weigh | lb. Powder ^ lb. of the best loaf sugar; beat 8 eggs till very light, thick, and smooth; then stir the grated cocoa- nut and the powdered sugar alternately into the pan of beaten egg, a little at a time of each, adding a handful of sifted flour, a powdered nutmeg, and a glass of sweet wine; stir tho whole vei-y hard. Butter a square tin pan, put in the mixture, set it immediately in a quick oven, and bake it well, seeing that tiie heat is well kept up all the time. When cold cut it into squares. Have ready a thick icing made of powdered sugar and white of egg, flavoured with rose water or extract of roses. Ice each square of the cake all over the top and sides. You may bake it in a loaf in a deep circular pan. Ice the whole surface, and ornament it. For a large cake baked in a loaf allow 1 lb. of grated cocoa-nut, 1 lb. of sugar, 16 eggs, 2 handsful of flour, 2 nutmegs, and 2 glasses of wine. It will require very long baking. COCOA-NUT CHEESECAKES. Take a good-sized nut, peel off the skin, and grate it very finely; put to it 4 or 5 spoonsful of rich syrup and 1 spoonful of rose water ; set it over a few coals, and keep stirring until it is mixed; then take it off the fire, and let it cool; next mix the yolks of 2 eggs well with it, and bake it in the shape of cheesecakes. The paste must be made with flour and yolks of eggs rolled as thin as possible. Wet the tops of the cakes with rose water, sift some refined sugar over them, and bake them in an oven at the same heat as for macaroons. COCOA-NUT CREAM may be made as Almond Cheam, substituting for the almonds 1 lb. of cocoa-nut grated finely. When it has boiled and is taken from the fire stir into the cream a wine-glass of rose water. COCOA-NUT DESSERT. Grate some cocoa-nut on a dish, sift finely powdered sugar over it, then another layer of grated nut with sugar till the dish is filled. This is a very nice dessert dish COCOA-NUT PUDDING. Take two cocoa- nuts of large size, break them up, pare off the brown skin from the pieces, and then grate them very finely. Stir together ^ lb, of the best fresh butter and | lb. of finely pounded loaf sugar till perfectly light. Beat 6 eggs till very thick and smooth; afterwards mix them gradu- ally with 1 pint of cream. Add this mixture by degrees to the beaten butter and sugar in turn with the grated cocoa-nut, a little at a time of each, stirring very well as you proceed; then give the whole a hard stirring. Put the mixture into a deep white dish, and bake it well. Send it to table cold, with loaf sugar sifted over the top. You may season the mix- ture by stirring in at the last 1 tea-spoonful of mixed nutmeg and cinnamon finely powdered, and you may add 1 table-spoonful of rose brandy. COCOA-NUT PUFFS. Break up a large ripe cocoa-nut; pare the pieces, and lay them awhile in cold water; then wipe them dry, and