GAT I 548 ] GAT as it colours the sugar scrape off tlie surface lightly. Take 6 ozs. of this sugar, crush it completely, and put it into a pan, with the rum and currants thoroughly washed. Having stirred it well, cover the pan and set it aside; then sift the flour, and make your leaven with the fourth part of it as usual. Put the butter and eggs into a pan, and mix them; to this mixture put half the remaining flour, and when that is amalgamated the cream, a little at a time; then by degrees the rest of the flour, the salt, the leaven, the currants, and rum, stirring well the whole time, that all the ingredients may be thoroughly incorporated. Finish the same as the former. GATEAU OF MILLEFEUILLES. Take some puff paste, and divide it into eight pieces, one of which must be double the size of the rest; roll the seven pieces to about the thick- ness of a half-crown, cut them all of an equal size, dorez, and place them on tins. Take the eighth piece, roll it to double the thickness, and cut it to the size of the others ; ornament one side of this layer, as it forms the top, and glaze. Bake them, and when cold take the first layer, and spread currant jelly all over it; cover it with a second layer, on which spread an apricot marmalade, and proceed thus, using different preserve between each layer of puff paste, until you have employed the whole. Garnish the upper piece with some of each preserve contained in the gateau; trim the edge, taking care to keep it quite round; fix some small meringues to it by means of sugar boiled to casse, place it on a napkin, and serve. Chantilly cream of different colours may be substituted for the preserves. GATEAU A LA PARISIENNE. Take 3 lbs. of flour, IJoz. of yeast, 1 oz. of salt, C ozs. of sugar, ten whole eggs, as many yolks, 2 lbs. of butter, four glasses of cream, 1 lb. of filberts, f lb. of pistachio nuts, and ^ lb. of preserved orange-peel. Blanch the filberts, and roast them over a moderate fire, stirring them constantly till lightly coloured. When done take them off, let them cool, and as soon as they are cold pound them, moistening them occasionally with cream. When reduced to a smooth paste put it into a pan, and stir the cream a little at a time into it; then strain it twice through a napkin, squeezing hard to extract all the milk, which put into a basin, and set aside; then blanch half the pistachios, wash them in cold water, and peel into pieces the same length as the pistachio nuts, and about one-eighth of an inch square. Divide the flour, and make the leaven in the same manner as directed for Gateau de Compiegne, except that milk is substituted for water. Having done it and set it aside to rise, take 1^ lb. of butter, worlc it up, put it into a pan, and add to it the remaining ^ lb. just dissolved; stir them together well, and put in the eggs and yolks one by one, working them up con- stantly ; then mix in successively half the flour, a glass of the filbert milk, and two handsful of flour; make a hollow in the paste, into which put the salt, sugar, and another glass of milk of filberts; mix them together; then add the remainder of the flour and milk of filberts, and the leaven. Thesebeing thoroughly incorporated, mix the orange-peel and pistachios, and then pour the preparation into a mould of the same kind, and buttered like that for Gateau de Compiegne. Whilst it is baking blanch the remainder of the pistachios, divide each nut in half, dry them thoroughly in a napkin, and when the gateau is taken from the mould stick them on the top and round the sides. GATEAU DE PITHWEERS. Pound to a smooth paste i lb. of filberts; add to them 6 ozs. of fine sugar, ^ lb. of butter, 2 ozs. of bitter almonds, four yolks of eggs, and a little salt. These ingredients being well beaten tog(^ther, put in four spoonsful of whipped cream; then take some puff paste, knead and roll it out perfectly, and divide it into two parts, one of which must be two-thirds larger than the other, which roll out of a sufficient size .to cut a round piece nine inches in diameter; add the cuttings of this to the remaining paste, roll it out, and cut a piece off sevc i inches in diameter; moisten the edges of the smaller piece lightly, and pour on it the above pre- paration ; spread it over the whole equally to within an inch of the edge; then cover it lightly with the other circular piece, and press the paste together that the preparation may not escape in baking. Flute the edge, dorez the top, and trace on it any design you think proper with the point of a knife ; place it in a brisk oven, and when coloured remove it nearer the opening, that the paste may not be too highly coloured. When it has been baking three quarters of an hour take it out and glaze it. These gateaux may be varied accord- ing to taste by introducing different articles, such as butter, almonds, dry currants, muscadel raisins, crisped orange flowers, &c., in proper quantities in the above preparation. GATEAU DE POMMES. Take Hlb. of lump sugar, put to it one pint of water, and let it boil for some time ; then add 9 lbs. of apples pared and cored, and the peel of a large lemon; boil the whole together till it is quite stiff, then put it into a mould, and when quite cold it will turn out. Serve with a rich custard. GATEAU royal. Take 3 lbs. of flour, 12 drachms of yeast, 1 oz. of salt, 6 ozs. of sugar, 6 drachms of vanilla, a glass of maras-