CHI CHI [ m ] meat from some cold roasted chickens, which may have been served before, and take out the breast bone ; mince the meat, and make it into a farce with cream, suet, grated bacon, parsley, shallots, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; unite these with the yolks of four eggs. Stuff the chickens with this as if they were whole; smooth them with a knife dipped in the white of egg; cover them with bread crumbs, and bake them. When of a nice brown colour pour sauce a la reine over, and serve. CHICKENS AU EfiVEIL. Stuff two chickens with the livers, parsley, scallions, and 2 tarragon leaves, all chopped and mixed together with butter, and, having parboiled them in a little fat or butter, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. In the meantime put the butter in which the chickens were parboiled into a stewpan, with 2 carrots, 2 onions sliced, garlic, cloves, thyme, and basil; stew, but do not let it be coloured ; put in a glass of white wine and another of stock; stew them together for half an hour, and then strain it. Then take some salad herbs, such as tarragon, pimpernel, chives, chervil, and cress, of each according to your taste, so as altogether to make half a handful; chop them very small, and infuse them in the above sauce on hot ashes for half an hour ; then strain it, press the herbs quite dry, and add to it a bit of butter worked with flour, salt, and pepper ; thicken, and serve it with the chickens. CHICKENS A LA ROMAINE. Lard a fine fillet of veal; make a hole at one end large enough to contain a small stuffed chicken, sew it up, and put it into a stewpan, with a few slices of veal and ham, some parsley, shallots, two cloves, basil, stock, and a little pepper; simmer it over a slow fire. When done skim and strain the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and spread it over the fillet of veal with a feather; then put some cullis to the remains of the glaze, straia it over the meat, and serve. CHICKENS IN SAVORY JELLY. Cut the meat of two roasted chickens into fillets the size of a shilling. Prepare some savoiy or aspic ielly by putting the whites of 4 eggs in a stew- pan, about 3 spoonsful of tarragon vinegar, and a little salt; beat them up with a fork, pour in 2 quarts of good consomme, and stir it over the fire continually till it boils; then take out the spoon, and let it simmer till reduced to half. Run it gently through a jelly bag, throw in a little chopped tarragon and chen-il, and half fill a mould with the jelly. When nearly set place the chicken neatly round, and when quite set fill it up. When the whole is' quite stiff dip the mould in warm water a minute, and turn out the jelly. CHICKENS, STEWED. Half boil them in as much water as will just cover them; tTien take them out, cut them up, and take out the breast bones. Put them into your stewpan with the liquor, and add a blade of mace and a little salt; cover the pan closely, and set it over a slow fire. Let it stew till the chickens are done enough, then put the whole into your dish, and send it to table. CHICKENS STEWED WHOLE. Having trussed a pair of fine fat chickens, with the liver under one wing and the gizzard under the other, fill the inside with large oysters, secured from falling out by fastening tape round the bodies of the chickens. Put them into a tin butter- kettle with a close cover. Set the kettle into a larger pot or saucepan of boiling water (which must not quite reach to the top of Ihe kettle), and place it over the fire. Keep it boiling till the fowls are well done, which they should be an hour after they begin to simmer. Occasion- ally take off the lid to remove the scum, and be sure to put it on again closely. As the water in the outside pot boils away replenish it with more hot water from a tea-kettle that is kept boiling hard. When the fowls are stewed quite tender remove them from the fire; take from them all the gravy that is about them, and put it into a small saucepan, covering closely the kettle in which they were stewed, and leaving the fowls in it to keep warm. Then add to the gravy 2 table-spoonsful of butter rolled in flour, 2 table-spoonsful of chopped oysters, the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs minced finely, half a grated nutmeg, 4 blades of mace, and a small tea-cup- ful of cream. Boil this gravy for about five minutes. Put the fowls on a dish, and send them to table, accompanied by the gravy in a sauce-boat. This is an excellent p/ay of cooking cllicl^GTlS CHICKENS, STUFFED. Boil a pint of milk with a handful of bread crumbs until very thick. When cold beat it up in a mortar with chopped parsley and onions, thyme, a bay leaf, butter, the yolks of four eggs, pepper, and salt. Stuff two chickens with this, sew it in, and roast the chickens with rashers of bacon. Serve with the following sauce:—A bit of butter rolled in flour, some stock, vinegar, a chopped anchovy, a few capers, salt, and nutmeg, thickened over the fire. CHICKENS AND TARRAGON. Blanch some tarragon leaves for a quarter of an hour, then throw them into cold water, and when well drained chop them very small, and mix a fourth part of it with the minced livers of two chickens, a bit of butter, salt, and pepper, and stuff the two chickens, dra^vIl and trussed, with it. Put them into a stewpan with some butter, and do them up in it; then lay some bacon on the breasts, wrap them in paper, and roast them.