CHI CHI C 289 ] salt, aad lay them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and at a great distance. Let the insides continue next to the fire till they are nearly half done, then turn them, taking care the fleshy sides do not burn, and let them broil till they are of a fine brown. Have ready good gravy sauce, with some mushrooms ; garnish them with lemon, and the livers broiled, the gizzards cut, slashed, and broiled, with pepper and salt. Or you may make the following sauce :—Take a handful of sorrel, and dip it in boiling water; then drain it, and have ready i pint of good gravy, a shallot shred small, and some parsley boiled very green. Thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and add a glass of red wine; then lay your sorrel in heaps around the chickens, and pour the sauce over them. Garnish with sliced lemon. CHICKENS A L'ANGLAISE. Truss and roast them till three parts done, and before they are coloured dish up. Pour on them melted butter mixed with parsley, garlic, tarragon cut small, and a little flour. Serve very hot. CHICKENS, ARTIFICIAL. Make a force- meat with the white meat of chickens or some veal or lamb, a piece of fat bacon, a shallot (all minced very small), parsley (also chopped), a little butter, and the yolk of an egg; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Work this up into the shape of a chicken, and stick into it the feet of the bird; bind it well together with egg, cover it with bread crumbs, place them on but- tered tins, and bake them. Serve either with or without gravy. CHICKENS A LA BELLEVUE. Bone two nice chickens, and fill them with a ragout made as follows :—Boil some small onions in stock till about three parts done, then stew with a little melted lard, two slices of peeled lemon, truffles, mushrooms, livers cut small, and sea- soned with pepper and salt, for about half an hour; do not use them till cold. Wrap the chickens in thin slices of bacon rubbed with pepper and salt, and add shallots and parsley; over these double paper buttered. Broil them slowly; when done wipe off the fat, and serve with sauce d la Belleviie. CHICKENS AU BLANC-MANGER. Boil I pint of cream with a bay leaf and a little coriander for a short time ; then add to it i lb. of sweet almonds beaten. When well strained beat up the yolks of 4 eggs in a little cream, and put it to the former; place it on the fire again, and keep stirring ; mix in by degrees the breast of a roasted fowl minced with beef marrow, and seasoned with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. With this blanc-manger fill two chickens boned, and sew them up; scald, and then braise them with bacon, milk, herbs, &c. When they are done prick them, that the fat may drain out; wipe, and serve them vnth sauce a la reine. CHICKENS ALA BRAISE. Take a couple of fine chickens; lard them, and season them with pepper, salt, and mace. Put a layer of veal in the bottom of a deep stewpan, with a slice or two of bacon, an onion cut in pieces, a piece of carrot, and a layer of beef ; then put in the chickens with the breasts downwards, a bundle of sweet herbs, after that a layer of beef, and a quart of broth or water. Cover it closely, and let it stew very gently for an hour. In the meantime get a ragout made thus :—Take two veal sweet- breads, cut them small, and put them into a saucepan, with a very little broth or water, a few cockscombs, truffles, and morels cut small, with an ox-palate. Stew them together, and when your chickens are done take them up, and keep them hot; strain the liquor they were stewed in, skim off' the fat, and put it into your ragout. Add a glass of red wine, a spoonful of catsup, and a few mushrooms; then boil all together, with a few artichoke bottoms cut in four, and asparagus tops. If your sauce is not thick enough put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and when properly done lay your chickens in the dish, and pour the ragout over them. Gar- nish with lemon. CHICKENS A LA BROCOLIERE. Take out all the bones except those of the legs, which must be tnissed over the breast something in the form of a chairman's strap. Give them a few turns over the fire in a little oil or butter, with some sliced lemon. Put them and the butter and lemon into a pan, with a few slices of ham and veal; cover them with bacon, parsley, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay leaf, two cloves, pepper, and salt. When these have stewed together a quar- ter of an hour put in a glass of wine, and finish. Skim and strain the sauce, thicken it with cuUis, and serve it on the chickens. CHICKENS EN CAISSE. Truss two pre- pared chickens with the legs in the body, leave on the wings, and flatten the chickens a little. Soak them in sweet oil, with parsley, scallions, shallots, and garlic, all whole, and seasoned with salt and pepper; make a case of paper, put in the chicken and the above ingredients, cover them with slices of bacon and paper, and cook them over a clear but slow fire, or in a baking- pan. When sufficiently done take out the herbs and bacon, serve them in the paper, and drop a very little verjuice on them. CHICKENS EN CAISSON. Cut the white part of two chickens into fillets, and marinate them with oil, salt, pepper, sweet herbs chopped, &c. Make some little cases of white paper, and put a thin slice of bacon at the bottom of each; lay in the fillets, strew in some truffles sliced, and moisten with coa- V