BER BEN [ 105 ] It is a powerful sedative and narcotic, botli as an internal medicine and as an external appli- cation ; in this latter form it alleviates local pains very effectually, but is liable to affect the nervous system. The recent leaves, powdered and made into an ointment with an equal weight of lard, will be found an efficient form for many- purposes. Every part of the plant is poisonous, and the berries from their beautiful appearance have often tempted the unwary. The leaves furnish the most convenient and powerful form of exhibition. Externally they may be used as a poultice; internally, 1 grain of the dry leaves, powdered, and gradually increased to 10 or 12 grains, or the leaves may be infused in boil- ing water in the proportion of 4 grains to 2 ozs. fluid, which may be given as a dose. A little of this infusion dropped into the eye permanently dilates the pupil, for which purpose it has been successfully applied previous to an operation for the cataract. The extract of this plant, since its active principle is fixed, ought to possess activity; but as it occurs in commerce it is found to be very uncertain and variable — a circumstance which entirely depends upon the manner in which it has been prepared. An overdose of belladonna produces the most dis- tressing and alarming symptoms, and so para- lysing is its influence, that vomiting can be hardly excited by the strongest doses of tartarised antimony. In such cases vinegar will be found the best antidote, or the affusion of cold water over the surface of the body, after the application of which, emetics are more likely to perform their duty. BEN, OIL OF, is obtained by pressing the seeds of Moringa aptera, a tree native of the tropics. Perfumers employ it as the basis of various scents, because it is so slow in becoming rancid; and as it does not freeze, except at very low temperatures, watchmakers employ it for oiling clocks and watches. BENTON SAUCE. Grate or scrape some horseradish very fine ; add thereto a little made- mustard, pounded white sugar, and four large spoonsful of vinegar. Serve it up in a tureen. This sauce is good with hot or cold roast beef. BENTON TEA-CAKES. Rub into 1 lb. of flour 6 ozs. of butter and 3 spoonsful of yeast, and make into a paste with new milk. Make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. BENZOIN, or, as it is popularly called, gum benjamin, is a resin obtained from a shrub, native of Sumatra, called Styrax henzoni, or benzoin laurel. It is very fragrant, especially when burnt, and, consequently, is used in forming fumigating pastilles. Its most active constituent is benzoic acid, commonly called flowers of benjamin, being in the form of white, soft, snow-like crystals. These, as well as the gum, have been employed to promote expecto- ration, and are still used in making paregoric elixir. The tinctm-e of benzoin has been em- ployed as a cosmetic to remove pimples and redness from the face. This tincture dropped into water renders it milky, and water so treated has been sold as a cosmetic under the name of virgin's milk. BERFRO CAKES. See Aberfrau. BERGAMOT, ESSENCE OF, is obtained both by pressure and distillation from the fresh rind of a species of citron. Citrus bergamia. The rind, deprived of the pulp it incloses, dried, and then moistened with water, is pressed into moulds, in Italy, so as to form fancy boxes, which retain much of the fresh fragrance of the bergamot, and are used for holding lozenges and other sweetmeats. A fragrant water is distilled from the peel as follows:—Take the rind of 3 bergamots, 1 gallon of spirit of wine, and 4 pints of water. Distil off a gallon by a water- bath, and add a sufficient quantity of refined white sugar. Or, take of the essence of berga- mot, 3^ drachms ; spirit of wine, 3 pints ; and of sal ammoniac, 1 drachm. Distil off' 3 pints in a similar manner. BERLIN WOOL. The Countess of Wilton, in her "Art of Needlework," gives the following account of the rise and progress of working with Berlin wool:—The style of modern em- broidery, now so fashionable, from the Berlin patterns, dates from the commencement of the present century. About the year 1804—5, a printseller in Berlin,named Philipson, published the fii'st coloured design, on checked paper, for needlework. In 1810 Madame Wittich, who, being a very accomplished embroideress, per- ceived the great extension of which this branch of trade was capable, induct her husband, a book and printseller of Berlin, to engage in it with spirit. From that period the trade has gone on rapidly increasing, though within the last six years the progression has been infi- nitely more rapid than it had previously been, owing to the number of new publishers who have engaged in the trade. By leading houses up to the commencement of the year 1840, there have been no less than 14,000 copper- plate designs published. At first these patterns were chiefly copied in silk, then in beads, and lastly in dyed wools; the latter more especially, since the Germans have themselves succeet-ed in producing those beautiful "zephyr" yarns known in this country as the Berlin wools. These yarns, however, are only dyed in Berlin, being manufactured at Gotha. It is not many years since the Germans drew all their fine woollen yarns from this country: now they are the exporters, and probably will so remain, what- ever be the qualitij of the wool produced in