C H A [ 363 ] CEE witli 3alt, lemon, and sweet hciLs; sliell them, remove the small claws, and simmer them lor half an hour in whatevei- sauce you please. Sei-ve them with the sauce poured over and around them. CRAYFISH, ROASTED. Put the fish to soak in hot wine, but do not boil them. When well drained stuff' them with sweet herbs, butter, salt, pepper, and basil; fasten them with skewers on a spit, and roast them before a gentle fire; baste them with their own dripping or boiling wino. CRAYFISH, SALAD OF. Boil crayfish as usual, take them from the shells, put them into a salad bowl, with anchovies and artichoke bottoms, and season like other salads. CRAYFISH SOUP. Put some eels, flounders, &c., into cold water; set them on the fire, and when near boiling skim, and add to them onions, carrots, parsley, and whole pepper. Take about fifty crayfish, and, having taken them from their shells, put them into the fish broth, with the small claws and tails finely pounded ; let them boil for an hour, then strain them off; add some crusts of bread and the spawn of a lobster pounded. CREAKING OF BOOTS AND SHOES. See Boots. CREAM : To Keep. Cream already skimmed may be kept twenty-four hours if scalded with- out sugar, and, by adding to it as much pow- dered lump sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be good for two days, keeping it in a cool place. CREAM, ALMOND. See Almond Cream. CREAM, ALMOND, DROPS. Prepare ilb. of almonds ; put them into a quart of sweetened cream, and boil; add nine eggs and flour; beat very smooth with orange or rose water (a drop or two of essence will answer, or a musk plum); sift flour upon paper, and drop them like ahnond biscuits; sift sugar over, and bake them in a quickish oven. Take care they do not run together. They may be made of dif- ferent flavours and colours. CREAM 1 L'ANGLAISE. Take the yolks of 2 eggs, Jib. of powder sugar, 2 ozs. of candied orange or lemon-peel, and 5 ozs of blanched pis- tachio nuts ; beat them all up in a mortar ; add to it a pint of good milk, and boil it over a gentle fire, stirrmg it frequently to prevent burning. When done add five or six drops of orange-flower water; pour the whole on a dish, and set it over the fire till the edges are brown; sprinkle sugar over and salamander it. CREAM, APPLE. Peel and core five large apples; boil them in a little water till soft enough to press through a sieve ; sweeten, and beat with them the whisked whites of five eggs. Serve with cream poured round it. CREAM. APPLE, TART. Pulp and season the apples with sugar, cinnamon, or cloves, and a glass of wine; mix a sufficient quantity of Naples biscuits in cream, yolks of eggs, and orange-flower water ; mix all well together, and put it into a sheeted dish with a border; cross bar and glaze it. CREAM AU BAIN-MARIE. Mix up what- ever ingredients of which the cream is to be made with eggs and sugar (for the proportions see the respective articles); strain them through a fine sieve, and pour the preparation into a mould lightly buttered withinside. Put this mould into a large saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of boiling water to reach within an inch of the mould ; place the saucepan on hot ashes, cover it, and put hot coals on the lid. Renew the fire underneath occasionally, so as to keep the water at the same temperature, that is, nearly, but never quite, boiling, for an hour and a half; then, if the cream is properly set, which may be known by touching it with your finger, and obsei'ving whether it may be easily detached from the mould, take it from the bain- marie and let it stand; when no more than lukewarm turn it out on your dish. It sometimes unavoidably happens that bubbles rise on the surface of the cream. In such a case boil I glass of cream, and add to it by degrees the yolks of 3 eggs; stir it con- stantly with a wooden spoon ; mix 3 ozs. of fine sugar with it, and continue stirring it over the fire till of a proper consistence, and on the point of boiling; then take it off and strain it. When the cream is ready for table cover it completely with the last made cream, which will hide its defects. cream' biscuits. Put the yolks of 3 eggs into a pan with J lb. of powder sugar, on which has been rasped the zest of a small cedrat; beat them up about ten minutes, then whip the whites, and mix them gradually with the yolks, 1 j oz. of dry sifted flour, and 4 spoonsful of whipped cream. When these in- gredients are well mixed and smooth pour the paste into about a dozen small cases, and glaze the tops of them with sifted sugar; when that is melted put the biscuits into a gentle oven, and bake them for twenty or five-and-twenty minutes. CREAM, BOHEMIAN JELLY. This may be made of any flavour as jellies, and either ripe or preserved fruits, or with marmalade or jam, to which add the juice of 2 lemons, 1 pint of water, l^oz. of gelatine, or 1 pint of calves' foot plain jelly; stir together in a bowl on ice ; when nearly cold stir in very quickly two-thirds of a pint of whipped cream; fill the mould, put on ice, and serve. CREAM, BURNT. Set on the fire in a