AMB AME [ 17 ] commended its virtues. Among the Eomans it was valued as a gem, and in the reign of Nero brought in immense quantities to the capital, where it was highly prized by the fashionable ladies, who decorated themselves with trinkets made of that substance—a custom which is still prevalent in catholic countries, where it is con- verted into amulets, crosses, &c. As a medicine amber is at present but in little repute, though it is still given in hysteric affections, and in those diseases which proceed from debility. Formerly it was used in a variety of preparations, but of late an essential oil is the only form in which it is employed. Lastly, it constitutes the basis of several kinds of varnish. Beoken Amber is joined by smearing the surfaces of the fracture with linseed oil, press- ing them very tightly together, and heating the amber at the same time over a charcoal fire, or red-hot plate, enough to cause the surfaces to soften and unite without injuring the outer appearance. AMBER PUDDING. Put 1 lb. of butter into a saucepan with fib.of powdered sugar; when melted and well mixed together, add the yolks of 15 eggs, beaten, and as much candied orange as will colour and flavour it. Line the dish with paste for turning out, and when filled with the above lay a crust over as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It may be eaten hot or cold. AMBER VARNISH for wood, or any other body not very pale coloured. It dries quickly, and is hard and durable. Heat ^ lb. of amber in an iron pot until it becomes nearly liquid ; then add 5 ozs. of pale, boiled, linseed oil. Stir until well mixed; then remove from the fire and add, when cooled down to a milk warmth, ^ pint of spirit of turpentine. Black amber varnish, used by coach makers, is made as the above, only 3 ozs. of asphaltum are melted with the amber. AMBERGRIS, or Grey Amber, is of an ash-grey colour, streaked with brownish yellow and white. It has an agreeable smell which improves by keeping, and is rendered still more strong by being mixed with a little musk. It is found floating on the sea, near the coasts of Africa, Brazil, and India, in masses usually small, but sometimes weighing as much as 100 lbs. It is generally believed to be a con- cretion formed in the stomach or intestines of the spermaceti whale {Physeter macrocephalus). When pure, it softens between the fingers, melts into an oil in a moderate degree of heat, and in a stronger one proves highly volatile. Slightly warmed it emits a fragrant odour, and when set on fire smells like amber. It dissolves, though with difficulty, in spirits of wine and essential oils, but not in those which are expressed from vegetables, nor in water. In Asia and part of Africa ambergris is not only used in medicine, and as an article of per- fumery, but, also, is applied to the purposes of cookery by adding it as a spice to several dishes. In this country it was formerly esteemed a cordial, and to be of great sei'vice in disorders of the head and nervous complaints ; but it now chiefly serves as an agreeable perfume, and is certainly free from many of those inconveniences which usually accompany substances of this description. Ambergris may be considered as genuine when it emits a fragrant smell, on thrusting a hot needle into its substance, and melts, like fat, of a uniform consistence. To every other perfume it is a valuable addi- tion, and is generally used in the form of an essence, or concentrated spirituous tincture. The following is the best ambergris essence for mixing with perfumes: — Beat together in a mortar 2 drachms of ambergris, the same quantity of white sugar-candy, 12 grains of musk, and 6 grains of civet; put the whole into a bottle with a stopper of ground glass, and pour upon it 4 ozs., by measure, of spirits of wine, 60° above proof. Place the stoppered bottle in water, heated to 100°, during twenty-four hours. While the solution continues warm, pour it from the sediment; remove this from the bottle and pour back the solution, keeping it always closely stopped with a piece of bladder tied over the stopper. This extract is much better for general use than the tincture of ambergris alone. Five or six drops will impart a noble odour to any article of perfume ; and the quantity here indi- cated will last any family a number of years, so small is the proportion required to impart the desired effect. Our forefathers used it in confectionery, and the following is one of their receipts:— AMBERGRIS CAKE. Mix a quarter peck of fine flour with 2 ozs. of quince marmalade, cut in slices, -^Ib. of fine sugar, and 10 spoons- ful of rose water. Beat them well together; then add i pint of yeast, 1 lb. of currants, picked and washed; cinnamon and mace, finely powdered, of each i oz.; 2 ozs. of candied orange-peel, cut very small. Mix all well together, and moisten the whole with 1 quart of milk and 10 eggs. Then add 1 drachm of ambergris, dissolved ready, in J pint of white wine; mix, form into a cake, and bake in a gentle oven. When baked ice it over with sugar. AMERICAN BUNS. Having mixed Hlb. of flour and i lb. of butter finely together, add 4 eggs, beaten to a high froth, 4 tea-cupsful of milk, i wine-glassful of brandy, and 1 wine- c