[ 480 ] EXT EXE a(3apt its degree and duration to the various circumstances of health. To this we will here confine our notes. By this exercise the appetite and perspiration are promoted, the body is kept in a proper temperament, the mind is enlivened, the motion of the lungs is facili- tated, and the rigidity and contraction of the legs arising from too much sitting are relieved. The most obstinate diseases, and the most troublesome hysteric and hypochondriacal com- plaints, have been frequently cured by perse- verance in walking. The most proper walk for health is in an agreeable country, in a healthy, pure, dry air, amidst social and cheerful conversations in a mild, sunshiny day, whether in spring, autumn, or winter—in the summer mornings and after- noons, but by no means in the oppressive heat of the sun. To walk in the town, though it gives exercise, is less conducive to health, be- cause the atmosphere is generally filled with vapours arising from impure exhalations. Those who are not hardened against the vi- cissitudes of the weather must avoid not only hail and rain, but also the cold mornings and evenings, and ought, in rough and moist cold weather, rather to take exercise within the house, with the admission of fresh air. Violent wind should also be avoided, and if we are obliged to face it we ought not to walk too fast, particularly in winter, when the small pores of the skin are compressed by the air. In walking the proper choice of place is a matter of much importance. Marshy and damp fields should be avoided, and in autumn, when the foliage is decaying, it is not advisable to choose woods, groves, and damp meadows for our pleasure walks. In summer, on the con- trary, a walk in the forests or meadows is both agreeable and healthful. Hills and elevated situations deserve particularly to be visited, not only on account of the purer air we breathe, but because we enjoy a variety of exercise in ascend- ing and descending. The inhabitants of towns require longer walks for the preservation of their health than country people. The latter, even with less exercise, de- rive vigour of body and serenity of mind from a purer air and more simple manners. Regular and daily walking cannot be too much recom- mended to the citizen, who in the present age is so much harassed with nervous and hypo- chondriacal complaints; but, though this be a useful and excellent s'pecies of exercise, yet some rules ought to be observed if we expect to derive from it the wished-for advantage. 1. We should contrive to procure as much re- creation after serious occupations as is possible and consistent with our situation in life. 2. To read during a walk, whether the subject be of a grave or amusing nature, is a custotn improper in itself, and detrimental to the eyes, besides the danger it occasions of falling. This practice not only deprives a person of the prin- cipal advantages of a walk, but people easily accustom themselves to an unsafe and ungrace- ful manner of carrying the body. It is attended with the worst consequences to the eyes, because the focus is continually shifted, and the retina is thus excessively fatigued. 3. We should not frequent the same, perhaps often a dull and unvaried path, though most con- venient. It, is better to change the walk occa- sionally, and gradually to extend the distance. The most agreeable prospects should be chosen for variety, otherwise the perpetually uniform walk will excite melancholy and unpleasant sensations as much as the closet or the study. 4. We ought to accustom ourselves to a steady and regular, but not a quick pace. 5. An agreeable companion contributes much to serenity of mind ; but let us rather go alone than in dull or frivolous company if we at all possess the art of profiting by solitude. 6. In the choice of our companions we should attend not only to congeniality of character and taste, but should also, in this exercise, associate with those whose pace accords with ours; for, if the heavy and corpulent man makes a lean and light-footed person the companion of his walks, he will remain behind, or be overheated and fatigued if he endeavour to keep pace with his partner, who must likewise suffer from the constraint of slower motion. 7. Some people cannot speak or converse in walking without frequent stops, and thus make little progress. From this singularity they are generally much fatigued at their return, without having reaped anv benefit from their exercise. EXPECTORANTS are medicines intended to facilitate the throwing off of mucus from the windpipe and passages to the lungs. The following are good recipes :—Tincture of squills, 10 drops; diluted nitric acid, 6 drops; extract of hyoscyamus, 3 grains; water, 1^ fiuid ounce. Mix, and take a similar draught three or four times a day. Squills. The powder of the dried root, 1 grain night and morning, made into pills with powdered cinnamon or ginger. Or, vinegar of squills, a small spoonful, with simple syrup, in a little peppermint water three times a day. Ipecacuanha. One grain three times a day made into lozenges. Sulphate of Zinc. One grain, with powdered ginger, twice a day. The Stea.m of Hot Water inhaled into the mouth. EXTRACTS are the active principle of any substance obtained from it, and reduced to a