[ 404 ] DAM DAM kept in private families for the reception of strangers are often equally dangerous. All kinds of linen and bedding, when not frequently used, become damp. Nothing is more common than to hear people complain of having caught cold by chaugirig their bed. The reason is 'obvious: were they careful never to sleep in a bed but what was frequently used they would seldom find any ill consequences from a change. Nothing is more to be dreaded by a delicate person when on a visit than being laid in a bed which is kept on purpose for strangers. That ill-judged piece of complaisance becomes a real injury. All the bad consequences from this quarter might easily be prevented in private families by causing their servants to sleep in the spare beds, and resign them to strangers when they come. In inns where the beds are used almost every night nothing else is neces- sary than to keep the rooms well seasoned by frequent fires, and the linen dry. If a person suspects that his bed is damp the simple pre- caution of taking off the sheets, and lying in the blankets with most of his clothes on, will prevent all the danger. Damp walls, to which so much discomfort and unhealthiness are attributable, may be readily prevented by but little trouble and less pre- caution on the part of the builder or occupier. In the dampest soil the moisture may be effectually prevented from rising into the wall by introducing a course of slate into the founda- tion, and even in the case of porous bricks they may be readily rendered peifectly water- tight and dry by painting or oiling them ex- ternally. If colour is no object a coat or two of the common anticorrosive paint will effect a cure. If the colour of the bricks is an object one or two coats of common linseed oil, applied by the paint-brush, will render the entrance of moisture impossible. This may be applied slightly warmed, selecting a dry and warm day. The wall should, of course, be-in as dry a state as possible, since, when it is full of water, the entrance of the oil is prevented. Even one coat- ing of oil carefully applied will produce a very good effect; and on a second application, which should be about a fortnight after the first, the filling up of the pores of the brick by the lin- seed oil will be evidenced by the considerably diminished quantity of oil which the wall re- quires. This is by no means an expensive im- provement, and the economical results produced are considerable. After the application there is a drier and warmer atmosphere in the house, less evaporation going on from the internal walls (an evaporation which demands the heat of larger fires), and cold currents from the walls towards the fire are diminished. The comfort of the family circle is thus extended, their health better secured. DAMSON BISCUITS. Pick aiad wash a quantity of ripe damsons, put them into a stone jar, and bake them in a slow oven till they are soft; then skin and stone them, force thpm with a spoon through a hair sieve, and to every pound of pulp add 2 lbs. of sifted loaf sugar, half a drachm of pounded cinnamon, and the whites of two eggs well whisked up; then make up little square moulds of writing paper, and place the paste very smoothly and evenly in them to about not quite double the thickness of an ordinaiy biscuit. Put these moulds into the stove, and in a week they will be dry. DAMSON CHEESE. Bake in a slow oven some ripe damsons, in an earthen pan covered with paper, till soft; rub them while hot through a cullender, put the juice and pulp into a stew- pan with some powdered loaf sugar, and boil them two or three hours over a gentle fire, stir- ring them frequently. About five minutes before they are done put in the kernels of the fruit broken and skinned. On taking out the mass put it into moulds or pots, let them stand twenty-four hours, and afterwards cover them with brandied paper. DAMSON DliOPS. Put some damsons in the oven to bake, but not so much as to break ; then skin and stone them, and pass them through a sieve ; sift some common loaf sugar through a lawn sieve, and mix it with them; make the mix- ture very thick ; drop it off your knife on paper, and put the drops on the stove to dry. When they are quite dry turn them on a sieve, and wet the outside of the paper, when they will come off easily ; set them on the stove again till they are quite dry and hard, and then put them into papered boxes. DAMSON DUMPLINGS. Make a good hot paste, roll it pretty thin, lay it in a basin, and put in as many damsons as you please; wet the edge of the paste, and close it up ; boil it in a cloth for an hour, pour melted butter over it, grate sugar round the edge of the dish, and serve. DAMSON ICE CREAM. Take 3ozs. of preserved damsons, pound and break the stones of them, put them into a basin, squeeze in two lemons, and add a pint of cream; press them through a sieve, and freeze. DAMSON ICE WATER. Take Jib. of preserved damsons, and break the stones ; put them into a basin, squeeze in a lemon, and add nearly a pint of water and half a gill of syrup ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it richly. DAMSON JELLY. To 8 lbs. of damsons put 8 lbs. of fine sugar and half a pint of water; boil them for half an hour over a gentle fire till the skins break ; then take them off, and set them