FIL [ 494 ] FIL strew this over the above preparation, and bake it in a moderate oven. Finish in the usual Jiianner. FILBERTS: To Pkeseeve. Do not remove their husks, but when perfectly ripe and dry put them into a stone jar, and keep the jar closed down, and in a cold cellar. FILBERTS, BURNT (Red). Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and crack them; put the kernels in a copper pan or sheet, and set them in the oven to roast. Have a pan of syrup boiling, and let it boil till it comes almost to caramel; put a little cochineal into a cup, and when the sugar is boiled add to it the cochineal and the filberts, and stir them with a large wooden spoon till you find the sugar has got hard round them; put them in a sieve, and separate those which stick together. Have another pan with syrup, boil it as before, and as high ; put the same quantity of cochineal in, and mix them as before, as by doing them a second time they will become a much finer colour. Put them into a box. FILBERTS, BURNT (White). Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and crack them; put the kernels in a copper pan or sheet, and set them in "the oven to roast; then have a pan with syrup boiling, and let it boil till it comes almost to caramel; put the filberts in, stir them till they are all covered with sugar, pick them in a sieve, and break those which stick together; then have another pan with syrup boiled the same as the first, and give the filberts a second coat of sugar. FILBERTS, CONSERVE OF. Upon ^ lb. of sugar put 1 oz. of filberts cut into as small strips as possible, the kernels being first scalded as is done in Blanched Almonds, to get the skin off. Finish the same as Dhied Consebyes. FILBERTS, PETITS SOUFFLES OF. Beat up i lb. of sifted sugar with the white of an egg ; grate into this 3 ozs. of burnt filberts, mix them together, and if necessary add the white of another egg. Finish the petits souffles as usual. FILLET OF BEEF. See Beef. FILLET OF MUTTON. See Mutton. FILLET OF VEAL. See Veal. FILTER. All waters from rivers or other sources having an earthy or woody flavour should be filtered before they are drunk. We have tasted water employed by cottagers in the marshes of Essex, and on heaths in Berkshire, absolutely*loaded with'the extracts from dead vegetables ; and in towns well waters have been analysed fetid with still more loathsome im- purities. Water from a well near Highgate, close", to the churchyard, contained 100 grains of solid impregnations in a gallon; and the nitrates of lime and magnesia, amounting to more than half of the impuiities, told of the dis- gusting drainage whence they came. All water containing vegetable or animal impurities should be purified by filtration, and for this purpose nothing is so efficacious as charcoal. The following is a very simple arrangement:— A Overflow pipe. B The supply pipe from the pump. c The filter, on a false bottom, pierced with holes. On this is laid two inches depth of pebbles ; on these two inches of sand; above this two inches of powdered charcoal; then two inches of sand; and at the top two inches of stones, so large as not to be removable by the force of the water. Another filter, to he fastened to the tap of a water cask, is thus made:—Take a piece of zinc perforated with small holes (say 200 to the square inch), and cut out a circular piece three inches in diameter. Procure a piece of fine thick flannel, close in its texture; make a bag somewhat in the shape of a pear; about the middle of this bag fasten the circular plate of zinc by passing a needle and thread through a few of the holes, and through the sides of the bag. Let the upper end be made as wide in diameter as the plate of zinc, and apply the usual contrivance for drawing it close like a bag's mouth. Insert a piece of fine sponge into the space above the plate, or, if sponge is too difficult to be had, some pieces of charcoal coarsely pounded ; but to use both sponge and