[ 46 ] ASA AET ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS (Fricaseed). These may be fricaseed either dried or pickled. If dried, lay them in water three or four hours, shifting the water two or three times. Having done this, put some cream into your saucepan, with a large piece of fresh butter, and stir them together one way till the butter is melted ; then put in the artichokes, and when they are hot dish them up. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS (Fried). Blanch them in water; then flour them, and fry them in fresh butter; lay them in your dish, and pour melted butter over them for sauce; or you may put a little red wine into the butter, and season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS (Pickled). Boil your artichokes till you can pull off all the leaves, and thoroughly clear the bottom; put them into salt and water for an hour; then take them out, and lay them in a cloth to drain. When they are dry put them into large, wide- mouthed glasses, with a little mace and sliced nutmeg between, and fill them with distilled vinegar; cover them with mutton fat, melted, and tie them down with leather or bladder. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS (Ragodted). Soak them in warm water for two or three hours, changing the water; then put them into a stew- pan with some good gravy, mushroom catsup or powder, and a little Cayenne pepper and salt. When they boil thicken with a little flour; put them into your dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve them up hot. ARTICHOKE AND EGGS. Boil the plants in hard water, but if dry, in soft. Throw a lump of butter into the water, and when you take out the bottom place the yolk of a hard egg in the middle of each. Pour thereon melted butter, and serve them up. Asparagus may be added between the artichokes. ARTICHOKE PIE. Boil 12 artichokes, break olf the leaves and chokes, and take the bottoms clear from the stalks. Make a good puff-crust, and lay ^Ib. of fresh butter all over the bottom of your pie. Then lay a row of artichokes; strew a little pepper, salt, and beaten mace over them; then another row; strew the rest of your spice over them, and put in ^ lb. more butter, cut in little bits. Take i- oz. of truifles and very small morels, and throw them all over the pie. Pour in a gill of white wine; cover your pie and bake it until the crust is done. ARTICHOKE SALAD. Trim and blanch your artichokes; drain, cut them in quarters, .and put them in a dish; garnish the spaces between each with sweet herbs; dress it with the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 spoonful of \-inegar, 2 spoonsful of oil, sweet herbs, chopped fine, salt and pepper. ARTICHOKES A LA BARIGOULE. Take 2 or 3 artichokes, according to the size of your dish; cut away the stalk and half the leaves; put them into a stewpan with a little stock or water, 2 spoonsful of good oil, a little salt and pepper, 1 onion, 2 roots, and a bunch of sweet herbs; boil the whole until the sauce is nearly consumed; then fry the artichokes to make them crisp ; next put them into a baking- dish with the sauce that remains ; take out the choke, and colour the leaves with a salamander or in a hot oven. Serve with a sauce of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. ARTICHOKES, BOILED. Twist off the stalks; then put them into cold water, and wash them well; when the water boils, put them in with the tops downwards, that all the dust and sand may boil out. About an hour and a half or two hours wiU do them. Serve them up with melted butter in cups. ARTICHOKES, FRIED. Cut your arti- chokes, according to their size, in four or eight pieces; take out the choke, and clear- out the large leaves; have melted butter in a basin. Some pour melted butter over them; but this is injudicious, as it makes the handling of them very disagreeable. ASAFGilTIDA. The gum-resin known by this name is produced from a plant not unlike the cow parsnip, and called Ferula asafcetida. Asafcetida is the concrete juice of the root of this plant, which is procured in the following manner on the mountains in the provinces of Chorasaan and Laar in Persia. At that season of the year when the leaves begin to decay, the oldest plants are selected for this pm'pose. First the firm earth which encompasses the root is rendered light by digging, and part of it cleared away, so as to leave a portion of the upper part of the root above the ground; the leaves and stalk are then twisted off and used with other vege- tables for a covering to screen it from the sun, and upon this covering a stoue is placed to prevent the ^^^nds from blowing it down. In this state the root is left for forty days, after which the covering is removed, and the top of the root cut off transversely; it is then screened again from the sun for forty-eight hours, which is thought a sufficient time for the juice to exude upon the wounded surface of the root, when the juice is scraped off by a proper instrument, and exposed to the sun to harden ; this being done, a second transverse section of the root is made, but no thicker than is necessary to remove the remaining superficial concretions which would otherwise obstruct the farther effusion of fresh juice; the screening is then again employed for forty-eight hours, and the juice obtained a second time, as before mentioned. In this way the asafo3tida is eight times repeatedly coUecteti