[ 105 ] BRE BRE famed Emden groats. If malt be rendered very fine and dusty, the wort is liberated with some difficulty. Each grain, however, must be cut or crushed, otherwise it will not be acted upon by the water. 2. The quantity of the malt we calculate at 1^ bushel; that of the hops at If lb. The brewing will be strong, aud, therefore, is in- tended to keep six months before it is tapped ; hence it should be well flavoured with hop—and no more of that article will be required for the beer as we shall show—If lb. sufficing for both ale and beer. If it be objected that we place our standard too high, and state quantities which will prepare an ale of intoxicating strength, we answer, that we profess to brew a perfect liquor—one that will work well, fine itself to wine brightness, keep any reasonable time in a good cellar, and never turn off hard. If ale be brewed of a strength short of that which secures these important points, a loss of full one-third may be calculated on in an average of three years; whereas a good ale is safe, always valu- able, and may be reduced to any desired standard of strength by adding table-beer to it at the time it is drank. He who possesses no self- control ought not to brew. It is very bad economy to prepare a weak liquor that will become sour, acrid, and insalubrious in two or three months. We have seen barrel after barrel thrown away by those who have brewed parsi- moniously. Moreover, we shall add a receipt to make table-beer by itself, and therefore any one may adopt his quantities to his particular views. 3. Mashing. The word implies the extrac- tion of all the soluble parts of malt by hot water. It is usually performed in a deep and wide tub, with a hole at one side an inch or two above the bottom, into which a large cock is fitted ; the internal orifice is guarded either by a wad of straw, twigs, or a mash basket, to prevent the passing of the grains; but all these are very inadequate substances for the false bottom which is now used. This is made of wood pierced full of small holes, and dropped into the tub from the bottom, which is distant about an inch and a half, being supported by a hoop, or by small cross pieces of wood. This loose bottom should be kept firmly in its place by another hoop nailed above it. It serves to filtrate the wort, which passes, thus strained, through a plug-hole or tap placed between the two bottoms. A still greater improvement comprises the false bottom, and to that a wooden pipe is adapted, down which the hot water is poured, and thus rises upwards through the malt. If the plain mash-tub, or that with a simple false bottom be used, the ground malt must be kept ready by its side, and the copper (which for our quantities should con- tain 18 gallons) ought to be filled v/ith water and brought to a boil. Any sweet water will do; but the experience of many years proves that the soft fluid of a pond with a rill flowing through it is the best. Pour about 6 gallons of the boiling water into the tub, then add malt, while an assistant stirs constantly till the whole be a thick mass ; then add a pail of boiling water, then more malt, and so on alternately till only 1 peck of dry malt remains. The water ought to bo about 13 gallons. Upon this mash sprinkle the re- maining quantity of dry malt all over its sur- face, then cover the tub with flannel cloth or sacks, and let it stand two hours. If the false bottom with the improved spout be employed, let the malt (except the reserved peck) be put dry into the vessel; then pour 12 or 14 gallons of water, at 175°, down the spout, and suffer it to rise gradually into the body of the malt; stir the upper part till it becomes completely wet, and lay on the dry malt, and cover with a cloth as before directed. While this process proceeds fill, and bring the copper to a boil again, and, about a quarter before the lapse of two hours, draw off a little of the wort into a bowl; return this, and repeat the drawing till no grains follow, and the wort be clear; then draw the wort from the mash-tub, at first slowly, and afterwards in a bolder stream, as it is of conse- quence that it should be clear. Malt absorbs and retains a1)0ut 3 gallons of water to every bushel; therefore, the wort ob- tained will be from 7 to 9 gallons. When the whole is nearly drained off close the tap, and pour on so much boiling water as will make up 18 gallons with the wort already obtained. Let this second mash I'emain one hour, and partially fill and again heat the copper, unless 9 gallons of water remain in it. Itwill be always advantageous to have two furnaces; one for the wort, and the other for the water. Where there are two the first wort ought to be put into it with a due propor- tion of the hops, and brought to a boil, as by this means much time will be saved. The hops should be rubbed up between the hands and placed in a small cooler, where it will be advisable to digest them during the period of the first mash in as much boiling water as will cover them; by so doing the quan- tity of water they absorb will be spared to the sweetwort, and no less of heat will be occasioned. Most persons do not mash the hops. Mashing for table-beer. If there be two cop- pers the boiling will proceed while the grains undergo a third mashing, which will consist of 9 gallons of water at about 150", added after the second wort of the ale has been drawn off. This mash may stand for one hour, when it will yield rather more than the water put on, aud the