ALM [ 12 ] ALM in it; do the same witli a little tincture of saffron for the yellow, and spinach juice for the green. Place the coloured almonds on a sieve in a stove; when dry mix all together, adding the white ones. Boil nearly as much sugar as your mould -will require to soufBe; put it in, and when the almonds are quite dry, garnish the surface of the sugar with them. Do not, however, lay them too thick, and just press them down with a fork; put the mould into a mode- rate oven for five hours; then drain it well, and in another two hours it may he taken from the mould. ALMOND CHEESE. Prepare a posset of white wine and cream; beat the curd with a little rose water and a sufficient quantity of almond paste; sweeten and rub them together; set it over a hot hearth; press it into a mould with a group of figures; turn it out when cold; sift sugar over it, to which may be added rasped almonds or citron. Serve it on cream or upon jelly laid under it. It is beautiful. ALMOND CHEESECAKE. Take i lb. Jordan almonds ; lay them in water all night. The next morning blanch them in cold water; then take tliem out and dry them in a clean cloth; beat them very fine in a little orange- flower water; then take 6 eggs, leave out 4 whites, with a little beaten mace; beat them well in a marble mortar. Take 10 ozs. of fresh butter, melt it, add a little grated lemon-peel, and put them in the mortar with the other ingredients; mix all well together, and fill your patty pans, having lined them with thin puff paste. ALMOND CONSERVE. Blanch and cut 6 ozs. of sweet almonds into small sti'ips; lay them on paper, and put them into an oven. When they are brown take them out, and throw them into 2 lbs. of sugar boiled until rather frothed; stir the mixture well until it begins to blow, and then pour it into paper cases or moulds. ALMOND CREAM. Put 1 pint of milk and 1 pint of cream, with a small bit of lemon- peel, into a stewpan to boil very gently for twenty minutes. In the meanwhile blanch and pound very fine 3 ozs. of sweet almonds; then take the milk and cream from the iire, into which, while hot, stir the pounded almonds with the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs and clarified sugar (boiled until browned) enough to sweeten it; then put the whole into a tammy cloth, and with a wooden spoon well rub and squeeze it through. Do this a second time; then squeeze into the cream 2 ozs. of well- clarified isinglass, the whole being together in a basin. Have your mould ready. ALMOND CREAM DROPS. Blanch and finely pound i lb. of almonds; put them into 1 quart of sweetened cream, and boil; add 9 eggs and a little flour; beat it very smooth with orange or rose water (a drop or two of the essence will answer); sift flour upon paper, and drop them like almond biscuit; sift sugar over and bake them in a quickish oven. Take care they do not run together. They may be of different colours and flavours. ALMOND CREAM (for the Hands). Blanched almonds, 4 ozs.; white of ] egg ; equal parts of spirit of wine and rose water, enough to make the other two ingredients into a thick cream. Pound the almonds to a fine paste; then add the white of egg; mix thoroughly, and then by degrees add the spirit and rose water. Used to prevent chapped hands and soften the skin. ALMOND CUSTARD. Blanch and beat fine 4 ozs. of almonds with 1 spoonful of water; beat 1 pint of cream with 2 spoonsful of rose water, and put to them the yolks of 4 eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet; then add the almonds ; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper thickness, bat not to boil; pour it into cups. ALMOND FLAVOURING. Mix i oz. of essential oil of bitter almonds in ^ pint of spirit of wine. Used as are bay leaves and laurel leaves to give a flavour to custards and other confectionery. A few drops only are required to a large quantity of confectioneiy. It is dan- gerous if used too freely. ALMOND FLUMMERY. Boil 3 ozs. of hartshorn shavings in 2 quarts of spring water ; let it simmer six or seven hours, till half the water is consumed; strain it through a sieve ; beat ^ lb. of almonds very fine with a quantity of orange-flower water; mix a little of the jelly and some fine sugar with it; strain it. ALMOND FRAISE. Blanch 1 lb. of Jordan almonds, and steep them in 1 pint of cream, 10 yolks, and 4 whites of eggs; take out the al- monds, and pound them fine in a marble mortar; then mix them again in the cream and eggs; put in sugar and grated bread, and stir them all together; then put some fresh butter into the pan; let it be hot, and pour it in stirring it in the pan till they are of sufiicient con- sistence, and when enough, turn it into a dish; strew sugar over it, and serve it up. ALMOND FRITTERS. Pounds lb. of sweet almonds, and 6 or 8 bitter ones, all blanched, orange flowers, chopped lemon-peel, sugar in proportion, a handful of flour, and 2 or 3 whites of eggs ; pound altogether some time, adding a few drops of water or more whites of eggs to make it of a proper suppleness to roll into little balls ; strew a little fine sugar powder upon them when ready to serve. ALMOND GINGERBREAD. Beat i lb.