[ 287 3 CHI CHI about two dozen young oysters, and toss them up in some melted butter, with chopped herbs and olive oil. When they have been cin the fire a quarter of an hour add a little white wine and ^ glass of good stock. Thicken it over tbe fire for another quarter of an hour, and when the chickens are ready to serve pour the sauce on them. Garnish the dish with oysters and some lemon. CHICKEN PIE. Cut a couple of chickens into pieces, and season each piece with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Line a dish with puff paste, and put a layer of forcemeat on it; then put in the chickens, with some sweetbreads cut in pieces, seasoned ham sliced thin, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms quartered, the yolks of hard eggs chopped, fresh mushrooms, cocks- combs, and asparagus. Add a little water, cover the pie with puff paste, and bake it. When done pour in some rich gravy, thickened with flour and butter. If the pie is to be eaten cold the truffles, morels, and mushrooms must be omitted. CHICKEN PIE (with Bacon). Season your chickens with pepper, salt, and mace. Put a piece of butter into each of them, and lay them in the dish with their breasts upwards. Lay a thin slice of bacon over them, which will give them an agreeable flavour. Then put in a pint of strong gravy, and make a good puff paste. Put on the lid, and bake it in a moderately heated oven. CHICKEN PIE (with Ham). Season some slices of boiled ham, and lay them on a puff paste about half an inch thick. Then season some pieces of chicken, and place them on the ham, with the yolks of some hard eggs and a few truffles and morels. Cover these with more slices of ham, seasoned as before; put some gravy in, and a puff crust on the top, and bake it thoroughly. If to be eaten hot more gravy may be added when done. CHICKEN PIE (with Parsley). Skin and cut up a chicken, season the pieces with salt; pick and scald some pai'sley, and when squeezed quite dry cut it, and lay it in the pie- dish, then the pieces of chicken, parsley, and chicken again, until the dish is full. Put new milk nearly to the top of the dish; cover and bake it. When done take out some of the milk, and add in its place a pint of scalded cream. CHICKEN PIE (Sweet). Having broken the bones of four chickens, cut them in pieces, season them with mace, cinnamon, and salt, and put them into a dish, with the yolks of 4 hard eggs cut in quarters ; 5 artichoke bottoms; of sun raisins stoned, citron, lemon, eringo root, marrow, and currants, 8 ozs. of each ; 4 slices of lemon, peeled, with 50 balls of forcemeat; cover the whole with rich puff paste, and bake. Boil I pint of white wine with the yolks of 2 eggs ; sweeten, and put it to the pie when baked. Serve quite hot. CHICKEN PUFFS. Minte the breast of a chicken, some lean ham, half an anchovy, a little parsley, shallots, and lemon-peel; season these with pepper, salt, Cayenne, and beaten mace ; set them on the fire a few minutes in a little bechamel; roll out some puff paste thin, cut it into square pieces, and lay in some of the above mixture ; turn the paste over, and fry them in boiling lard. Serve them on fried parsley. CHICKEN RICE PUDDING. Parboil a fine fowl, and cut it up. Boil till soft and dry 1 pint of rice ; and while warm mix with it 1 large table-spoonful of fresh butter. Beat 4 eggs very light, and then mix them gi'adually with the rice. Spread a coating of the rice, &c., over the bottom and sides of a deep dish; place on it the pieces of parboiled fowl, with a little of the liquid in which it was boiled, sea- soned with powdered mace and nutmeg; add some pieces of fresh butter rolled in flour and a little cream; cover the dish closely with the remainder of the rice; set the pudding imme- diately in the oven, and bake it brown. Cold chicken or turkey cooked the day before may be used for this purpose. The pudding may be improved by the addition of a few very thin, small slices of cold ham or smoked tongue. CHICKEN, ROASTED. Be particularly careful in drawing your chickens ; when done cut off the claws, and truss them for dressing Put them down to a good fire, and singe, dust, and baste them with butter; when they are done enough froth them, and lay them in your dish. Serve them up with parsley and butter poured over them, and gravy and mushroom sauce in boats. A large chicken will take half an hour ; a small one twenty minutes. CHICKEN SALAD. Cut cold roast fowl into small long pieces, taking off the skin. Lay some lettuce, cut small, at the bottom of the salad bowl; put the chicken on it, with all sorts of salading, gherkins, hard eggs cut in quarters, and anchovies cut in slips ; season with the usual salad dressing. Instead of a lettuce parsley and scallions, cut small, may be used. CHICKEN SALAD A LA REINE. Roast four fine plump chickens, and when cold cut them in pieces ; toss them up in an earthen pan with salt, oil, vinegar, parsley, and an onion or shallot cut small; cover them with paper, and leave them in this for some hours. Boil 8 eggs, as nearly the same size as possible, hard, and cast them in, taking off the shells. Wash 6 lettuces, take off the leaves, keeping the hearts quite small; cut the leaves as finely as you can, season them as for common salad, and lay them on a table dish ; then having drained