[ 145 ] BOW BRA body. Long oosliveness, an accumulation of acrid bile, cold applied to the extremities or to the belly itself, eating unripe fruits, irregular living, and sour food or drink, are among the causes which occasion this disease; also, inhaling the fumes of lead, and frequently handling some of its che- mical preparations; hence painters and glaziers are frequently troubled with it. It has been called the Devonshire colic, from the cider being impregnated with the lead of which the cisterns containing it are lined ; but it is a frequent disease in the West Indies, where no cider is made, and where there is only a small quantity of lead in the mills employed to extract the juice of the sugar-canes. This cause, then, cannot be so general a one as has been supposed. As the above symptoms inci-ease, or are not alleviated, the spasms become more frequent as well as more violent; the costiveness cannot be over- come, inflammation of the intestines ensues, which terminates in gangrene, and destroys the patient; and at an advanced stage of the dis- ease strangury not uncommonly takes place in a very high degree. This disease is always attended with some degree of danger in proportion to the violence of the symptoms and its duration; and where it does not prove fatal it is too apt to terminate in palsj', and to leave behind it contractions of the hands and feet, which disable them from per- forming their office ; and in this miserable state of helplessness the patient may linger out many years of wretched existence. "When it is brought on by lead it is more obstinate and longer pro- tracted than when induced by other causes. In the treatment of this disease, if the symp- toms be veiy violent, the patient should be bled as early as possible, in proportion to his age and constitution, to guard against inflammation of thfe intestines. After this step antispasmodics should be resorted to, if judged necessary, to remove the spasms. Among these are fomenta- tions by means of flannels wrung out of a warm decoction of poppy heads to which some rectified spirit has been added. Frequent immersion in the warm bath, or taking the patient out of bed, and making him walk on a cold, damp floor, bare- footed ; at the same time throwing cold water on Lis feet, legs, and thighs ; using large quantities of opium internally (5 grains for a dose), or by friction with it externally. The application of a large blister to the abdomen may be sometimes attended with benefit, clysters, &c. The follow- ing draught may be taken every six hours:— Take castor oil, ^ oz. ; mucilage of gum arabic, enough. Mix them in a mortar, and then add gradually peppermint water, l^oz.; tincture of opium, 30 drops. Mix : to be taken every four or six hours. - For an anodyne liniment to rub over the ab- domen, take camphorated spirit, 4 drachms; tincture of opium, 1 drachm. Whenever the spasms begin to relax, and the stomach becomes somewhat composed, some mild cathartic should be administered, such as the preceding opening draught, or castor oil alone, or compound tincture of senna, or a solution of some purgative salt; assisting its operation by a laxative clyster, should the desired effect not be speedily pro- duced, every three or four hours. For a clyster dissolve extract of bitter apple, i drachm, in infusion of senna, 16 ozs.; and add Glauber's or Epsom salts, ^ oz.; castor oil, 1 oz. For other kinds of pain in the bowels see Colic, Dtarrhcea, and Worms. BOX WOOD, or Wood of Buxus semper- viRENs. That is the best which is imported from Turkey, and is invaluable to the wood- engraver and mathematical instrument-maker. It sells by weight for twelve guineas a ton and upwards. It is used also by the turner and flute-maker for musical instrument pegs, but- ton-moulds, weavers' shuttles, dressers for shoe- makers and plumbers, for pestles, chessmen, ko. Its leaves, as a tonic, have been employed medicinally as a substitute for Peruvian bark. Box-wood mahogany is made by warming the box-wood, washing it with nitric acid, letting it dry for twenty-four hours, and then polishing it by rubbing it with linseed oil coloured with alkanet root. BRACES, SHOULDER. We do not hesi- tate to condemn braces of all kinds as applied to restrain the motion of a girl's shoulders; for they will infallibly produce deformity. We caution mothers most strongly not to be de- ceived by the apparent improvement which they produce when first put on, for this is the snare that has allured so many to torture their children into deformity. Follow the example of the ele- gant Greeks, the ease and beauty of whose forms are so much admired. They put no unnatural straps on their young ladies : all their garments were easy, loose, and floating; and the effects were seen in their every limb and their every motion. On the contrary, we can at once dis- tinguish among thousands from their stiff, starched awkwardness, the poor creatures who have been pinioned and tortured by shoulder braces, and other wicked inventions to turn beauty into deformity, and the finest figures into rickety ugliness. Dr. Macartney, of Dublin, says, "he has found the fine proportions of the antique statues only in the busts of women who had never worn such restraints on shape." BRAIN FEVER {Phrenitis). In this and the next disease medical aid fshould be promptly obtained, and we enter into details of their treatment because our pages are intended for the emigrant and others not within the reacli