ANI ANG [ 20 ] Btalks of their leaves, and cut ttem into small pieces, which put into the best brandy and water in the proportion of 8 pints of brandy and 4 pints of water to 1 lb. of angelica, and 4 lbs. of sugar; add ^ oz. of cloves and cinnamon mixed in equal proportions ; let it stand for six weeks, then filter and bottle it. ANGELICA TART. Pare and core some good apples, peel angelica stalks, and cut an equal quantity of each into small pieces; boil the apples with lemon-peel and sugar in sufficient water to cover them until reduced to a thin syrup; strain it, and then put it on the fire again with the angelica for about ten minutes. Lay a paste in the dish, and put layers of apples and angelica alternately till full. Fill up with syrup and bake. ANIMAL FOOD. Of the different classes of animals used for food, quadrupeds compose the greatest proportion, and there is no part of their bodies which does not contain nutri- tive parts, and that has not been used as food in some way or other. Even bones afford an alimentary jelly fit for human food. The largest portion of our aliment, however, is derived from the muscles of animals, or what is more strictly called the flesh, consisting of all the red, fibrous substance which covers the bones. It would seem that this is both the most nourishing and the most easily-digested of animal substances. The red colour arises from the blood of minute vessels which run in every direction among the fibres; but whether this is the cause of the red muscles being more nutritious is not well ascertained. Thence the flesh of quadrupeds is more largely consumed than that of any other class of animals; and, indeed, those in common use in most parts of Europe possess all the alimentary propeilies in the highest perfection. All animal flesh seems more or less stimulating; and, in general, the more so the darker its colour is; but it does not absolutely follow that it is also more nutritious. There is considerable difference in the qualities of muscular flesh, according to the size of the animal, and also according to its activity. The small, mountain sheep, for example, which has to encounter fatigue to procure its food, has flesh of a different quality and flavour from the large and lazy creature which feeds luxuriously and fattens rapidly in the rich pastures ot the plain country. The beef of the Western Islands, also, is more esteemed, on account of the same circumstance, than that of the fat and brawny oxen which we see in the London markets. It is for this rea- son, we have no doubt, that the flesh of the horse, the rhinoceros, and elephant, is not used as food, except in cases where otlier food is not to be procured. In the circumstance of activity altering the qualities of flesh, we may be allowed to instance the superiority of venison to beef in flavour and tenderness, and easiness of digestion. The age of animals is another circumstance which has great influence on the qualities of their flesh. The flesh of young animals is composed of less rigid fibres, and has fewer vessels which carry red blood running through it; and, besides, it has less of the peculiar flavour of its particular species than the flesh of older animals. Gelatine is more abundant in the young, and fibres in the old; hence the former is more bland and tender. Veal and lamb, for example, are more tender and gela- tinous than beef or mutton. Sucking pigs, chickens, and ducklings, are also much more delicate than full-grown animals. The beef of an old cow, however well fed, is quite tough and unpalatable, while that of a young heifer is much relished. Although, however, very young ani"mals be so much more tender, yet they are insipid and flabby. In the case of pork, age is not required as in other sorts of butcher's meat to mellow the fibres. It is an aliment contain- ing much nourishment; but to some palates its flavour is disagreeable, though by most people it is relished. It was much used by the ancient athletse as half-raw beefsteaks are now by our men of the fancy. Sucking pigs are killed when three weeks old; and for pork, pigs are killed from six to twelve months old. It requires them to be older for making brawn. The flesh of young venison is not so good as when four years old or more, though that of the fawn is very tender and succulent. Veal is reckoned not so good when killed before it is eight or ten weeks old. The most remarkable quality of flesh of this kind is, its almost wholly dissolving in boiling water, forming in the warm state a bland and gelatinous soup; and when cold, concreting into a tremulous, transparent jelly. It is less animalised, or more properly speaking, contains less animal fibre than almost any other flesh; hence its tendency to become acid when made into broth and jelly, which is not the case with beef and mutton broth The parts of older animals which contain a larger portion of gelatine are in this respect similar to young flesh. Cowheel and sheep's head are well-known instances. It may be remarked that such food is less nutritious, and, unless very much boiled, is less digestible than muscular flesh; but as it is also more light and less stimulating, it is frequently given to delicate constitutions which can take nothing stronger. Tripe is intermediate between what we have just described and the muscular flesh of grown animals, insomuch as there is in the stomach of ruminant animals a considerable proportion of vessels transmitting red blood, and of muscular