[ n2 ] BIS BIR the belly of each a little butter, and secure the vents ; cover them in a jug, and set it in a kettle of boiling water till the birds are done; then draw them; make a jelly of calves' feet, and place the birds as already directed in the pre- ceding article. BIRDS, POTTED: To Preserve. When the birds have come a great way they often smell so badly that they can scarcely be borne owing to the rankness of the butter used in potting them. By managing them in the following manner they may be made as good as ever:— Set a large saucepan of clear water over the fire ; when it boils take off the butter at the top; then take the birds out one by one, throw them into the saucepan of water for half a minute, whip them out, and dry them in a cloth inside and out; continue this till they are all done; then scald the pot clean. When the birds are quite cold, season them with mace, pepper, and salt, according to taste; put them down close in a pot, and pour clarified butter over them. BIRDS, SAUCE FOR. Shred 2 or 3 shal- lots, and boil them for a few minutes in 1 gill of water and ^ gill of vinegar; add thereto J pint of good gravy, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; shake this over the fire till it thickens, and then serve it up. BISCUITS ai'e of many lands, but however made, remember that none but the very best and driest flour should be employed, and that in storing them, any paper, except white writing- paper, imparts to them an undesired flavour. The following notes upon the preparation of sailors' biscuits we print first, because many of the notes are generally applicable. The name biscuit is evidently derived from the nature of the processes to which this kind of bread was formerly subjected. The two bakings then used are no longer found neces- sary, but the name, although thus rendered inappropriate, has been continued. When intended for this use, biscuits are most commonly made of the meal of wheat from which only the coarsest bran has been separated. It is hardly possible to be too particular in the selection of meal for this purpose, since any damage to which it may have been subject, either before or after being ground, would pre- vent biscuits, however carefully made, from keeping sound for any length of time. The preparation of sea biscuit is carried on as a substantive branch of business in almost every port to which vessels resort which are engaged in trading with distant countries. The largest biscuit manufactories are those maintained by government for supplying the navy. The scale ixpon which these are carried on is such as to make it of great importance to introduce into the process every simplicity compatible with the goodness of the articles; and attempts have, with this view, been made from time to time, in order to lessen the amount of labour in the establishments. It does not appear that these attempts can have been very successful, since the process now used in the great bake- house at Deptford is identical with that em- ployed there forty years ago, and which is as follows :—Meal and water being mixed together in proportions necessary for giving the due de- gree of consistency to the dough, it is kneaded in the following manner: the dough is placed upon a wooden platform, about 6 feet square, fixed horizontally a few inches above the floor of the bakehouse, and against the wall. A wooden staff, 5 inches in diameter and 8 feet long, has one end fixed by means of a staple and eye to the wall, at a convenient distance, at the middle of that side which is against the wall, above the level of the platform, and its other end overhangs by 2 feet the outer edge of the platform. Having a certain play by means of the staple and eye, this staff can be made to traverse the surface of the platform, and when the dough is placed upon it, the staff is used so as to knead it by indenting upon it lines radiating in a semicircle from the staple. To perform this kneading process, a man seats him- self upon the overhanging end of the staff, and proceeds with a ridiug motion backwards and forwards through the semicircular range until the dough is sufficiently kneaded. In this state the dough is cut by large knives into slices, which are subdivided into small lumps, each sufficient for making a biscuit. In moulding these small lumps, which is done by hand, the dough undergoes a further degi'ee of kneading, and at length receives the form of the biscuit. The men who thus fashion the dough make two of these cakes at the same time, work- ing with each hand independently of the other. When this part of the work is completed, the two pieces, which have been simultaneously pre- pared, are placed one on the other and handed over to another workman, by whom the two together are stamped with a toothed instrument, the use of which is to allow the equable dissipa- tion of moisture through the holes from all parts of the biscuit during the baking. The biscuits are then separated by another workman, who places them on a particular spot of a small table standing close to the mouth of the oven, so that each biscuit can be taken up in its turn without the necessity of his looking for it, by the man who supplies the oven. The office performed by this man is that of tossing the biscuits in succession upon the peel, which is held by another man whose business is to arrange them in the oven. This peel is a flat thin board, a few inches square, which can, by means of a