GIN [ 557 ] GIN it all the time. When cold squeeze in the juice of two lemon?, then boil the peels with 2 ozs. of white ginger in three pints of water one hour, and as soon as this is cold put it to the rest, with a gill of finings and 3 lbs. of Malaga raisins; then close it up, let it stand two months, and bottle it o£F. GINGERBREAD. Rub 1 lb. of butter well into 3 lbs. of flour; add 1 lb. of powder sugar, 1 lb. of treacle, 2 ozs. of ginger pounded and sifted finely, and a nutmeg grated finely; then warm a quarter of a pint of cream, and mix the whole together. You may add caraways and sweetmeats if you choose. Make it into a stiff paste, and bake it in a slow oven. If cakes or biscuits are kept in paper or a drawer they will acquire a disagreeable taste. A pan and cover or tureen will preserve them long and moist; or, if required to be crisp, laying them before the fire will make them so. GINGERBREAD, AMERICAN. Take ^ lb. of fresh butter melted, 1^ lb. of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity of brown sugar, ^ lb. of pounded ginger, nine eggs (the yolks and whites separately beaten), a glass of rose water, and one of white wine. Mix all these well to- gether, and beat it for an hour; then with a spoon spread it over flat tin pans about the thickness of a penny piece, bake it of a light brown, and while warm cut it into oblong pieces, and place them on end till cool, when they will be very crisp. GINGERBREAD WITHOUT BUTTER. Mix 2 lbs. of treacle ; orange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger, of each 4 ozs., all thinly sliced ; 1 oz. of coriander seeds, 1 oz. of caraways, and 1 oz. of beaten ginger, in as much flour as will make a soft paste ; lay it in cake or tin plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Keep it dry in a covered eatthen vessel, and it will be good for some months. GINGERBREAD CAKES, RICH. To 1 lb. of dried and sifted flour allow i lb. of pounded loaf sugar, f lb. of fresh butter washed in . rose water, 1 lb. of treacle, a nutmeg grated, the weight of a nutmeg of pounded mace, as much of pounded cinnamon, 1 oz. of pounded ginger, 1^ oz. of candied orange and lemon-peel cut small, i oz. of blanched sweet almonds cut it into long thin bits, and two well-beaten eggs. Melt the butter with the treacle, and wlien nearly cold stir in the eggs and the rest of the ingredients; mix all well together, make it into round cakes, and bake them upon tins. , GINGERBREAD, CARAWAY. Cut up ^ lb. of fresh butter in a pint of West India molasses, and warm them together slightly till the butter is quite soft; then stir them well, and add gradually 1 lb. of good brown sugar, a table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and two heaped table-spoonsful of ground ghiger, or three if the ginger is not very strong. Sift 2 lbs. or two quarts of flour, beat four eggs till very thick and light, and stir them gradually into the mixture, in turn with the flour and five or six large table-spoonsful of caraway seeds, a little at a time; dissolve a very small tea- spoonful of pearlash or soda in as much luke- warm water as will cover it, and stir it in at the last. Stir all very hard, transfer it to a buttered tin pan with straight sides, and bake it in a loaf in a moderate oven. It will require a great deal of baking. GINGERBREAD, COMMON. Take a pint of molasses, 1 lb. of fresh butfsr, 2J lbs. of flour sifted, a pint of milk, a small tea- spoonful of pearlash, or, if it is strong, a tea- cupful of ginger ; cut the butter into the flour, and add the ginger. Having dissolved the pearlash in a little vinegar, stir it with the milk and molasses alternately into the other ingredients; stir it very hard for a long time till it is quite light. Put some flour ou your paste board, take out small portions of the dough, and make it with your hands into long rolls ; then curl up the rolls into round cakes, or twist two rolls together, or lay them in straight lengths or sticks side by side, and touching each other ; put them carefully in buttered pans, and bake them in a moderate oven not hot enough to burn them. If they should get scorched scrape off with a knife or grater all the burnt parts before you put the cakes away. You can if you choose cut out the dough with tins in the shape of hearts, circles, ovals, &c.; or you may bake it all in one, and cut it into squares when cold. GINGERBREAD, CORSICAN. Take 2 lbs. of flour, 1^ lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of butter, nine eggs, a glass of wine, and a cup of ginger. Spread very thin with a knife on tin sheets, keep the dough two inches from the edge of the sheets, and sift sugar over it before you put it into the oven. GINGERBREAD, CRISP. Take 3 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of sugar, and 1 lb. of butter; mix these together with three table-spoonsful of ginger, some cloves and anise-seed, and wet it with molasses ; roll it thin, cut it in shapes, and bake with a quick heat. GINGERBREAD, DUTCH. Mix 4 lbs. of flour with 2 ozs. of ginger, rub in J lb. of butter, 2 ozs. of caraway seeds, 2 ozs. of dried orange-peel grated or cut in fillets, a few bruised coriander seeds, a little candied citron, and two eggs; make it into a paste with 2^ lbs. of treacle, beat it well with a rolling-pin, and make it up into flat or thick cakes; cut, prick, and lay them upon three papers, one white and two brown, wash them over with white of egg, and t