CLE [ 313 ] CLE cess of clapping the hands must he washed •whenever any starch or wet adheres to them. After clapping with very dry hands let the arti- cles he carefully pulled in two directions, being attentive not to produce any fraying, and this is readily caused by portions of starch sticking to the hands. While the articles are being pulled as just directed they must, from time to time, be held up against the light, to ascertain whether they have been sufficiently clapped. On look- ing through the articles when held up against the light, if any spot appears shining, from the starch remaining there, it must be gently rubbed with the hand quite dry. When the things are clapped enough they will stick to the hands and separate easily. It is important to clap very hard and very quickly, to prevent the articles from being limber when dry. As soon as no shining spots appear when held against the light the things will be clapped enough. Nothing must be clapped singly, for fear of fraying and tearing. It will spoil the colour also if the clapping is done near the fire, except in frosty weather, when the cold will render this necessary. Ironing and Getting up. In the case of plain articles, when they have been ascertained to be sufficiently clapped let the hands be washed and veiy thoroughly dried, when the articles must he pulled in two directions, and laid doubly on the ironing board as evenly and smoothly as pos- sible. Another article is to be doubled in the same manner and laid over the first, and then a third, till about six have been so laid. The first, ■which will be the driest, may then be ironed with a box iron. The articles should be nearly dry, but not quite, as they will iron more smoothly when slightly damp. Fine plain muslin articles ought to he ironed on a clean soft woollen cloth, but in the case of thicker and coarser cottons they ought to be first ironed on a damp cloth, and finished by ironing them on the wrong sides upon the iron- ing cloth. In the case of edged caps, when they have been ascertained to be sufficiently clapped—and this is as easily done as in plain articles—a board ought to be procured with cloth nailed round the ends. Then, pulling out the cap in two directions, and holding by the edging with very dry hands, pin it down very straight to the cloth on the ends of the board, taking care to p\it the pins into the edging rather than in the body of the cap, which would leave holes that would not easily come out again. In this way three or four articles may be pinned down on the board, according as it may be of size to receive them. The articles must remain pinned on the board till they are quite dry, when the pins may be taken out, and the edging picked out with very dry hands by holding the body of the cap quite tight. Every little pucker and fold must thus be picked out on the board by going twice over the edging. The articles thus dried and picked out must be ironed on a damp cloth with an iron not too hot. In the case of lawns and cambrics, after wash- ing and rinsing them in the same manner as fine muslins let them be dipped into very thin starch, squeezed out very hard, and wiped very hard with a dry cloth. They must also be clapped with great care, as they are apt to slit. Wlaen they have been folded up after clapping let them be put into a clean pan, taking great care not to let them touch any wet, which, both in these articles and in muslins, leaves a thick sort of appearance instead of the fine semi-transparent look on which their beauty depends. Lawns and cam- brics ought, like thick muslins, to be ironed on the wrong side on a damp cloth with an iron not too hot. Articles of this kind must not be starched with starch left from other things, but with starch freshly made, and with a very little more blue in it than for thicker articles. In the instance of aprons, cravats, and similar articles, they must be done with very thin starch, such as has been left froni starching caps. They will not require a great deal of clapping, but must be very clear. To prevent fraying pull them out towards the gathers first, and then in opposite directions. Afterwards let them be doubled and laid on a board as evenly and smoothly as possible, where they must re- main till very nearly dry. Then let thpm be pulled evenly, and ironed on the wrong side. Cravats require to have the two ends exact. In the case of fringed articles the best way is to take off' the fringes, washing them by them- selves in at least three lathers, the last two having a considerable addition of blue. The fringe must then be wound around a long piece of clean board, combing it out carefully each turn that is wound. Afterwards dip it in clear spring or pump water several times, and let the water run off so as to lay the fringe the right way, It must be dried on the board as it lies by pressing it well with dry cloths. Fringe may likewise be done, though not quite so well, by washing it as in the preceding case, hanging it on a line to dry, and afterwards combing it out. The ad- vantage of this method is that it is much more speedily done ; the disadvantage is that it is scarcely possible to avoid tearing the fringe. When fringes are knotted they may be washed as already directed, and then opened with a bodkin. To whiten them in a superior manner they must be boiled with soap and powder blue, and hung up in the air to bleach. If the fringe is not taken off the articles before washing them it must all be picked out thread by thread with a