[ n ] ALM ALM of bitter almonds must be added to 1 oz. of sweet almonds. ALMOND BISCUITS (2). Take 8ozs. of sweet and as many bitter almonds, 15 whites and 8 yolks of eggs, 2 ozs. of flour and 2 lbs. of powdered sugar ; pour boiling water on your almonds, and almost im.mediately afterwards turn that away, and pour cold water on them ; rub off the skins one by one with a napkin; then pound them to a paste in a mortar, moisten- ing them with the whites of 2 eggs; beat the 15 whites to a snow, and the 8 yolks with half the quantity of the sugar, and then mix them with the almond paste. Put the remainder of the sugar into a basin ; sift some flour over it; stir the mixture till all the ingredients are thoroughly incorporated, and pour it into small paper cases. Glaze them with the sugar aiid flour sifted over them. Bake them in a pretty Avarm oven. ALMOND BISCUITS (Small). Beat up the yolks of 3 eggs, for ten minutes, with 4 ozs. of powdered sugar and 1 oz. of bitter almonds well pounded; then add 1 whole egg, and beat up five minutes longer; whip the whites to a strong froth; mix with them oz. of fine-sifted flour ■with the yolks; work this paste well, and then pour it into small, well-buttered, moulds, melon shaped; glaze them; sprinkle them with pow- dered sugar, and bake for eighteen or twenty minutes in a moderate oven. ALMOND BISCUITS (Souffles). Blanch i lb. of sweet almonds; cut them into dice, and dry them in the oven ; make a glaze with the whites of 2 new-laid eggs; mix the almonds, and add a pinch of crisp orange flowers to this, and put it into very small paper cases. Do not fill them above half full, as they rise considerably in the oven, and would otherwise fall over, and spoil their appearance. Bake them in a moderately heated oven. As soon as they are pretty firm they are done. ALMOND BREAD. Take 1 lb. of the best almonds; slice them across; beat and sift 1 lb. of double-refined sugar, and strew it over the almonds as you cut them, stir- ring them frequently to prevent them sticking together. When all the sugar is used, put them into an earthen basin with a few caraway seeds, a little gum dragon (dissolved in rose water and strained), 3 grains of musk and ambergris mixed in fine sugar, and the whites of 2 eggs beaten to a very light froth, and 2 spoonsful of fine flour. When well mixed, lay them on wafers the size of macaroons; open with a knife or bodkin, lest two or three pieces stick together; the quicker you lay them the better they will look; put them into a well-heated oven, taking care they do not scorch ; when half baked take them out, wash them with the white of an egg beaten to a froth; grate a little fine sugar over them, and bake them about half an hour longer. ALMOND BUTTER. Put 1 pint of cream on a slow fire, with 8 eggs well beaten and strained ; stir them one way till they are ready to boil; put in 1 glass of rich sweet wine, and continue stirring it till it comes to a curd; strain off the whey; pound the curd with 2 ozs. of almond paste and 3 ozs. of sugar; put it into potting-pans or moulds. To be eaten with bread. ALMOND CAKE (1). Take 8 ozs. of Jordan and 1 oz. of bitter almonds ; blanch and pound them very fine ; then beat in with the almonds the yolks of 8 eggs, and whisk up the whites to a solid froth; then take 8 table- spoonsful of sifted sugar, 5 spoonsful of fine flour, a small quantity of grated lemon-peel and pounded cinnamon, and mix all the ingredients. Rub the inside of a mould with fresh butter, fill it with the mixture, and bake it of a light colour. ALMOND CAKE (2). Put 1 gill of flour on a pie board, and make a hole in the middle to receive a piece of butter the size of an egg, a little salt, ^ lb. of fine sugar, and 6 ozs. of sweet almonds pounded very fine ; knead the whole and form it into a cake; bake and glaze it with sugar and a hot salamander. ALMOND CAKE (3). Weigh 3 eggs in their shells ; take the same weight of flour, of the finest fresh butter, and of grated loaf sugar. Pound with these ingredients 3 ozs. of sweet almonds, blanched; add a little grated lemon- peel or orange-flower water, and the whites and yolks of eggs. Continue pounding till the whole forms a smooth paste. Butter the boltom of the baking-pan and put in the cake. This cake may be served hot or cold with grated sugar over it. ALMOND CAKE (Small). One pound of butter beaten to a cream, ^ lb. of finely-pounded and sifted loaf sugar, ^ lb. of dried and sifted flour, and the same quantity of blanched sweet almonds, cut into small bits, 1 well-beaten egg, and a little rose water. Must be mixed well together, and with a spoon dropped upon wafer paper or tins, and then baked. ALMOND CANDY. Blanch 1 lb. of new Jordan almonds and cut them very thin, length- Vv'ays ; put them into 1 lb. of clarified sugar to crisp them; stir them over the fire till boiled to a dryish froth; then take them off and keep stirring till the sugar is dry, like sand ; then sift it so that the almonds may be left. Divide them into four parts to colour them, one part red, the second yellow, the third green, and the fourth left white, as they come from the sugar. To colour the first, soak a small quantity of carmine in clarified sugar, and lay your almonda