DAI [ 402 3 DAI 50', else it will certainly injure the milk; and this temperature can be maintained only by means of deep cooling shade in the season of intense sunshine, and of a stove, surrounding flues, or some kindred appliance in the season of cold winds and of frost. It may be con- structed by either sinking the floor some feet under ground, and making the roof a prolonged arch of stone or brick, or by having the floor on a level with the surrounding surface, and forming the I'oof in the ordinary manner with a covering, not of slates or tiles, but of straw tliatch or of turf, and in the latter case it ought to enjoy the shade of overhanging trees or of adjoining lofty buildings. The distance between the floor and ceiling ought to be at least ten feet. The floor should be a close pavement of poliphed sandstone or of tiles, with all its seams so completely puttied as to prevent the enti-ance or stagnation of even the smallest portion of liquid, and with a prevailing inclination towards a drain for carrying off the water; and the bench or table for holding the milk-pans should consist of polished marble, or of beech or plane tree, or at worst of polished sandstone, and should extend round the walls, if the milk room be a sunken one, at a line a little below the level of the outer ground, or, in any case, not more than three feet from the floor. Two windows may open towards respectively the north find the north-east, and should be covered with a sieve of brass or zinc wire impenetrable to mice, and a sheet of gauze cloth within the wire, such as to exclude flies, and yet to admit light and a current of air. If only one window can be thus constructed, or the two be insuffi- cient in size for abundant ventilation, air holes covered with wire should be cut a little above the milk bench, and on the opposite sides of the room; and if the windows cannot be opened towards the north or north-east, but look in some other direction, each must be shaded with a board so placed as to admit a current of air, and at the same time exclude the rays and heat pf the sun. Glazed windows may be added for the winter ; yet, except in veiy cold or very hot weather, they are quite useless, and ought always to stand open. " A complete ventilation," re- marks Sir John Sinclair, " may be preserved by a number of narrow openings in the outside walls near the floor, covered with canvas or wire cloth, to which sliding shutters are fitted in the inside. If there is no other apartment above a ventilator should be made on the roof, covered with weath^' boarding, and communi- cating with the ceiling of the mill? room by an inclosed box or case formed betwixt the Bcantlings, with openings both on the under side next the ceiling, and on the upper side to %lae ventilator in the roof. When there is an apartment above the case in the ceiling should have openings at the ends through the walls, with wire cloth coverings. Two of these cases should be made in the ceiling, with two openings to each from it about one foot square, perforated with holes or covered with wire cloth." The milk bench, the floor, and the walls of the house ought to be so closely constructed as not to admit of the lodgment of milk, dirty water, dampness, or any impurity. The milk bench and the floor ought to be carefully washed and dried every time that milk or water is dropped on them; the walls and the ceiling ought to be frequently swept, so that no dust may accumulate or cobwebs be formed ; and the drain which carries off the water should be kept as clean as the floor itself, and should not com- municate with any sink or pond, but with an outward channel of perfectly free and open con- veyance. When a little rill of water from any adjacent spring can be made to flow along the drain of the milk house it has a fine cooling and purifying effect, carrying off effluvia, keep- ing up continual ventilation, and maintaining constant freshness and sweetness in the air. The cheese room ought to be, in every instance, a separate apartment, no matter in what part of the farmery, but clean, moderately cool, per- fectly dry, and quite free from bad vapours and gases. " It ought," says Mr. Alton, " to be dry, to have a moderate degree of air and some light, but not too much of either, and never admit the sun to shine into it or on the cheese. If the cheeses, when laid up to dry, have not some free air they will become mouldy, and will not dry and harden properly; and if they are exposed to much drought, heat, or sunshine they will dry too hastily, with many cracks or fissures. Perhaps they will sweat or perspire, and sNvell like a loaf, which in dairy language is called fire-fanging." All milk coolers, or vessels for holding milk in the milk house, ought to be wide and shallow, so as to expose a large surface for the ascent and dis- engagement of the cream. Some are fixed troughs, with a stop-cock at the bottom of each, so that the milk can be withdrawn, and the cream left in the trough, and these are hewn out of stone, or made of wood with a lining of metal; but most are moveable vessels of either earthenware, Wedge- wood's ware, wood, tinned iron, copperwork, block tin, zinc, alloy, or some combination of wood and metal. Wooden ones are not easily kept clean, earthenware ones are easily broken, zinc, lead, and iron ones form noxious saline compounds with the lactic acid of the milk, and marble ones are expensive. The other kinds also have their respective disadvantages, and probably those of Wedgewood's ware, all things considered, are the most desirable.