[ 254 ] CEL CEL and 1 pint of milk into a stewpan, with neai'ly I lb. of sugar, and let it boil till a third is con- sumed. Take 2 heads of celery, let them boil in the cream just time enough to flavour it. Strain the cream, and beat up with it the yolks of 5 eggs, a little flour, and set it in hot water over the fire, taking care it does not boil. If you wish to serve it cold put in neither eggs nor flour, but when the cream is strained and is lukewarm, mix it with rennet. Strain, and put into a dish for table, set it over hot embers, put a cover over, and hot embers on that, and let it remain till the cream is set. Keep in a cool place till ready to serve. CELERY, ESSENCE OF. Steep ioz. of bruised celery seed in i pint of brandy or proof spirit, and let it stand a fortnight. A few drops will be sufficient to flavour a pint of broth, or pea and other soups. CELERY, FRIED. Blanch the heart and white leaves of celery, and stew it in a little stock. Dry it in cloths. Cut it in pieces, and dip them in good plain batter, and fry them. Sprinkle salt over them when you serve. "CELERY FRITTERS. Take about a dozen heads of celery, and cut them six inches above the roots, which must be rounded. Wash them well; blanch them for a quarter of an hour, then let thera cool and draip Tie them up in four packets. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, and put on them your celery, a bunch of herbs seasoned with salt and moistened with the skimmings of the pot; cover them with bacon and paper. Stew them, and when done drain and press them; then soak them in brandy and sugar; dip them in batter, and fry them. Drain, glaze, and serve them. CELERY, GARNITURE OP. For this purpose the heart and white leaves must only be used. Brown in a stewpan a little fat and a spoonful of flour. Add a small quantity of stock, parsley, salt, and pepper. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, then put in the celery and some gravy, and reduce them over the fire. CELERY AU GRATIN. Take a dozen heads of white celery, trim off the stringy parts, and cut the rest in pieces about the size of a shilling. Boil them tender, and then stew them in good consomme, with a bit of butter, a little sugar, and salt. When nearly done drain and toss them up in some bechamel, with the yolk of an egg. Put them in a dish, and with a spoon sprinkle some clarified butter on that, and then bread-cjumbs. Again brown it with a salamander. CELERY, PUREE OF. Cut the whitest parts of several heads of celery, and blanch them in water to take out the bitter taste. Let it cool and drain; then put it into a stewpan with a little consomme and sugar. Let it stew for an hour and a half, and be reduced till no moisture remains, then mix it with 4 spoons- ful of bechamel or veloute. Strain the whole through a tammy, and put it in the bain marie. When ready to serve put in a little thick cream. CELERY, RAGOUT OF. Cut the white part into lengths, and boil it till tender. Fry, and drain, and flour it; put it into some rich gravy, a little red wine, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and catsup. Boil it up. CELERY SAUCE (1). Cut a dozen heads of fine celery into pieces about the size of a shilling. Blanch, and put them into a small stewpan, with consomme enough to cover them, a small bit of butter, a little sugar and salt. Lay a round paper over the whole. Let them stew gently till nearly done, then shake them up in bechamel sauce. CELERY SAUCE (2). Cut boiled celery into pieces two inches long. Put them into a stewpan with some veal gravy which tastes strong of spices and herbs ; thicken it with fib. of butter rolled in flour, and |pint of cream. Boil it up, and squeeze in some lemon- juice. CELERY SAUCE (Brown). Cut into lengths as before. Boil, and drain it; put it into some good gravy, with a little flour mixed in smooth, a little catsup, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Boil all up togethei-. CELERY SOUP. Neatly trim and wash two dozen heads of fine celery; split each in two, and put them to blanch in a large stew pan of water, with plenty of salt. When tender drain them on a sieve, and stir the soup over the fire, with about 3 ozs. of butter, and a very little sugar and salt When the butter begins to look clear, mix in a ladleful of consomme; when that has boiled for a few minutes, and the celery is perfectly? mashed, stir in 3 table-spoons- ful of sauce tournee, and when this is well boiled rub the whole through a tammy; add a pint of strong consomme, and nearly as much thick cream. Put it into a soup pot, set it on the fire to boil half an hour before you want it, and skim it. Serve it with celery cut round, blanched, and stewed. If you wish the soup to be brown instead of white use Espagnole, and no cream. CELERY, STEWED. Boil till tender the white part and cut it in pieces ; stir some cream over the fire with 2 yolks of eggs ; put in the celery, salt, pepper, mace, and grated lemon- peel ; shake all together, but do not let it boil. CELERY ON TOAST. Cut some weU- buttered toast into pieces about three inches square, lay on them celery, stewed according to the above receipt, and serve at table. CELLAR. We shall first confine our re- marks to the wine cellar, but they are equally ap- plicable to that in which beer is kept. It should I