[ 460 ] EGG EGG EGGS, BEATEN. Take fifteen eggs, leave out the whites of five, strain them into a sauce- pan, and add to them ^ lb. of butter (which should he cut into small pieces), n spoonful of veloute, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; set these on the fire, and stir them with a stick till they are done ; then place them on your dish, and lay fried bread round them. EGGS, BEATEN (in the shell). Cut as many pieces of bread as you have eggs, take off the crusts, and shape them round ; make a hole in the middle of each large enough to contain an egg laid lengthwise in it; then take your eggs, break one end carefully, and take out the con- tents, which put into a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, two spoonsful of cream, shred parsley and scallions, salt, and pepper, and keep stirring over the fire until properly done ; then, having washed and drained the shells, fill them with cooked eggs, lay them on the bread, and serve. EGGS WITH BEET. Pound a piece of red beet with some beaten cinnamon, sugar, macaroons, and a slice of lemon ; then take half a dozen eggs, leave out the whites, a little salt, and milk; mix the whole well together, and strain it through a sieve; put it into a dish, set it over the fire, and brown with a red-hot shovel. EGGS, BIRDS'. These are always most intei-esting if they can be preserved in the nest, and on the tree, or among the grass, where the nest is formed. However, we have here only to give directions for the preservation of the eggs. In selecting eggs for your cabinet always choose those which are newly laid. Make a medium-sized bole at the sharp end with a pointed instrument. Having made the hole at the sharp end, make one at the blunt, and let this last hole be as small as possible. This done, apply your mouth to the blunt end, and blow the contents through the sharp end. If the yolk will not come freely run a pin or wire up into the egg, and stir the yolk well about. Now get a cupful of water, and, immersing the sharp end of the shell into it, apply your mouth to the blunt end, and suck up some of the water into the empty shell; then put your finger and thumb upon the two holes, shake the water well within, and after this blow it out. The water will clear your egg of any remains of yolk or of white which may stay in after blowing. If one suck up of water will not suSice make a second or third. An egg immediately after it is produced is very clear and fine; but by staying in the nest, and coming in coiitact with the feet of the bird, it soon assumes a dirty appearance. To remedy this wash it well in soap and water, and use a nail-brush to get the dirt off. Your egg-shell is now as it ought to be, and nothing remains to be done but to prevent the thin white membrane (which is still inside) from corrupting. Take a wine-glass, and fill it with the solution of corrosive sublimate of alcohol; then immerse the sharp end of the egg-shell into it, keeping your finger and thumb, as you hold it, just clear of the solution ; apply your mouth to the little hole at the blunt end, and suck up some of the solution into the shell. You need not be fearful of getting the liquor into your mouth, for, as soon as it rises in the shell, the cold will strike your finger and thumb, and then you should cease sucking. Shake the shell just as you did when the water was in it, and then blow the solution back into the glass. Your egg-shell is now beyond the reach of corruption ; the mem- brane for ever retains its pristine whiteness, and no insect for the time to come will ever venture to prey upon it. If you wish your egg to appear extremely brilliant give it a coat of mastic varnish, put on very sparingly with a camel-hair pencil. Green or blue eggs must be done with gum arabic: the mastic varnish is apt to injure the colour. EGGS AND BREAD. Beat the yolks of five eggs and the white of one, mix as much bread crumbs as will make it into a stiff paste, adding a little salt; put it in a small oval dish buttered, and set it in the oven about a quarter of an hour ; melt some butter in a frying-pan, and turn the substance of the dish into it, having ready the whites of the five eggs and the yolk of one beaten to pour over it, keeping it as much as possible to one side of the pan ; sprinkle it over with bread crumbs, and svhen browned turn and brown it on the other side; serve it up with brown gravy in the dish, and onion sauce in a boat. EGGS WITH BREAD. ' Take a penny loaf, soak it in a quart of hot milk two hours, or till the bread is soft; then strain it through a coarse sieve, put to it two spoonsful of orange- flower water or rose water; sweeten it, and grate in a little nutmeg; take a little dish, butter the bottom of it, break in as many eggs as will cover the bottom of the dish, poiir in the bread and milk, set it in a tin oven before the fire, and half an hour will bake it. It will do on a chafing dish of coals. Cover it closely before the fire, or bake it in a slow oven. EGGS AND BROCCOLI. Boil your broccoli till tender, saving a large bunch for the middle, and six or eight little thick sprigs to stick round; take a toast half an inch thick, as big as you would have it for your dish or butter plate, and ' toast it brown; butter some eggs thus :—Take six eggs, more or less as you have occasion, beat them well, and put them into a saucepan, with a good piece of butter and a little salt; keep beating them with a spoon till they are thick