[ 418 ] DIN DIN find a very good invalid's disli, and if eaten hot it should be quicl\ly sent up. Those who have watclied by the couch of one recovering from an illness will know the kind of impatience there is to obtain the fancied dish, and how the desire for it fades away if kept waiting till the usual hour strikes. Souffi.es require great care in making, tut they certainly repay the trouble given. Tliey can be flavoured with almost anything. If you have not a souffle case you must line a pie mould with a crust of jiastry, fill it with flour to keep it in its place, and bake it a light brown. This case is tn hold the souffle, which is to be made in the following manner:—Take ^ lb. of butter, ^ lb. of ground rice or arrowroot, and any flavouring you like ; add nearly a quart of milk, and boil the whole together. Have ready the yolks of five eggs well beaten and sweetened to your taste, and stir it in quickly; set it by till cold, when add the whites of the eggs, which should have been previously well whisked. Wrap a piece of buttered pnper round the "case," into which pour the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven for about an hour. It must be sent to table the moment it is out of the oven, or it will sink. A napkin should be nicely folded and placed on the dish ready to receive the " case." Fkencu Pastry is a very simple dish. It is merely to cut some puff paste into " fingers," and on these place different coloured jams, such as apricot, strawberry, and red currantjelly. Whip into a very stiff froth the whites of three eggs, and throw into the " whip" a few of the cointits which are sold under the name of " hundreds and thousands." Place the "fingers" in a pretty manner on the dish, and between them put the white froth. Tipsy Cake. The fourth corner dish is also one which can be prepared the day before. Make a sponge cake, soak it for some hours in any white wine, with a glass of brandy added to it. When quite soft have some almonds ready blanched, and stick them all round the cake so as to give it the appearance of a porcupine. Cut some citron-peel into very narrow strips, and put a circle round the bottom of the cake, so as to form loops. Have a custard ready, and when the cake is placed on the dish in which it is to be sent to table potu' the custard round, but not over it. The following is the receipt for the custard:—One pint and a half of new milk and half a pint of-cream, boiled with white sugar and laurel leaves. When almost cold stir in the yolks of six eggs very much beaten ; keep it near a slow fire till it thickens, stirring it one way all the time, but do not let it boil. DINKER, FEEKCH. A great dinner, ac- fcording to Grimod, in his Almanac des Gour- mands, whose opinion is considered to be con- clusive in such matters, ought to consist of four services:—1. The soups, tlie hors d'ceuvres, releves, and entrees. 2. The roast meats and salads. 3. The cold pastry and entremets. 4. The dessert. During winter a good French dinner often begins with oysters, which are uniformly ac- companied with white wine, especially Chablis, particularly agreeable on that occasion. The use of red wine with oysters would show a great want of savoir vivrc, and is even pernicious to the health, as it generally produces indigestion. Thei'e is no P'rench dinner without soup at the commencement, which is regarded as a necessary preparation of the stomach fur the dua digestion of more solid food. It is commonly followed by a libation of ordinary wine, the coup d'apres, which is considered so wholesome after soup that the proverb says the physician thus loses a fee. The soup is constantly followed by boiled beef (the houilli). which is, however, sometimes preceded by anchovies, to stimulate the palate and appetite. Small plates of radishes, eggs, &c., with butter of Bretagne in little pots, form what are called the hors d'ceuvres, or extraordinaries; but the delicious pastry called petits pates usually follow the boiled beef. The hors d'ceuvres are followed by entrees of fowl in various shapes, fricassees, fricandeaux, cutlets, sweetbreads, &c. The vegetables are served apart, and eaten by themselves. A great singularity of the French table is that fish is served late, and not always at the same time ; for they in general bring together all the boiled articles, whether fish or flesh, and all the roasted articles of both sorts. Some- times fish dressed warm may be eaten in the course of the second or third service ; but the fish is often cold, and accompanies or follows the roti. This custom is said to be more agi'eeable to the stomach than our fashion of beginning with the fish, which the French consider to be a crude food of little nutrition, and often of difficult digestion, not being much acquainted with the superior sorts produced in other places, nor how much better they are consumed in a hot than iu a cold state. In consequence of this arrangement, and the aid of a variety of the most generous wines that France, Spain, Hungary, or other countries can produce, the consumption of the table is very great, and it is said that a person who leaves England with so weak a stomach that it has long refused the luxury of two dishes may, with- out inconvenience, taste of twenty at a French repast.