FOM FLU [ 51-1 ] into a basin, and the next day turn out the melon, and lay it in the middle of the basin jelly; fill up the basin with jelly that is begin- ning to set, let it stand all night, and turn it out the next day on a glass dish. FLUMMERY, OATMEAL. Boil four quarts of water; when it is rather warmer than milk from the cow put to it two quarts of oat- meal just cracked; when it has stood till sour pour off the water, and*wash the flour out well through a sieve with three quarts of fresh water; let this stand twenty-four hours, then pour off all the water, leaving the thick, to one Clip of which measm-e three of milk ; set it over the fire, and keep stirring it. When it begins to curdle put it through a sieve, and set the liquor again on the fire; repeat this, passing it through a sieve so long as it curdles; then boil it for twenty minutes, and put it into cups first dipped in water. If the water stands upon-the oatmeal fourteen or twenty days, according to the weather, so that it only turns sour, not mouldy, the better the flummery will be. FLUxMMERY, RICE. Take rice either in grain, ground, or in flour; dissolve it perfectly in a little water, and rub it till smooth in as much new milk or cream as it will stiffen; add sugar and lemon juice, or sugar, wine, and cinnamon, or a few sweet and bitter almonds. It is excellent in all these different ways, as it gives no tfouble in making, and is light and good for children. Dish it in coffee cups, large cups, a china basin, or in moulds of any size, dipping them in water before they are filled, that the flummery may slip out easily. FLUMMERY, A TEMPLE IN. Divide a quart of stiff flummery into three parts, and colour one part pink with a little bruised cochineal steeped in French brandy; scrape 1 oz. of chocolate, dissolve it in a little strong coffee, and mix it with another part of the flummery, which will make it a stone colour, and have the last part white; then wet the temple mould, and fit it in a pot to make it stand evenly; fill the bottom of the temple with flummery for the steps, the four points with white; fill up the rest with the chocolate d ummery, and let it stand till the next day; then loosen it very gently from the mould, and tarn it out; stick sprigs of flowers on the top of every point, which will strengthen it, and give it a neat appearance. Lay round it sweet- meats for a garnish. ' FLUMMERY, WELSH. Put a little isinglass to a quart of stiff hartshorn jelly, add to it a pint of cream, a little brandy, and some lemon juice and sugar; boil till it is thick, and then strain it. Y^ou may add, if you choose, 3 07.3. of almonds blanched and pounded, and ab( ut ten bitter ones. FLUX. See Dysentery. FOLDING. See Apparel. FOMENTATIONS are external applications to the skin by means of flannels or bandages. They are used hot or cold according to circum- stances. In cases of sprains, or other affections where the application of heat is required, thick flannel is dipped in the hot liquid, and, after being slightly wrung, it is placed as hot as possible upon the part, and as it cools another flannel is got ready. In this manner the bleeding after the application of leeches may be kept up for a considerable time. In colic, long constipation, and other affections of the bowels, the use of hot fomentations, which are usually made by boiling poppy heads and camomile flowers in water, are frequently found to be very useful. This fomentation is at the same time emollient and soothing. Its strength may be increased by sprinkling laudanum upon the flannel when it has been wrung. As no danger can result fi'om the use of hot fomentations for such affec- tions, they may always be resorted to, in the absence of a medical man, when the pain is violent and the case is urgent. They are some- times used in gout with advantage, and for quinsy when it is necessary to bring the tumour to a suppuration. An excellent fomentation to relieve acute pain is composed of 2 ozs. of white poppy heads and ^ oz. of elder flowers, boiled in three pints of water until reduced to a quart. Or an aromatic fomentation may be employed with advantage in cases of dysentery, flatulent colics, and retchings to vomit, made of i oz. of Jamaica pepper boiled for a short time in red wine; and a strengthening fomentation to apply to weak parts may be composed of oak bark, 1 oz.; pomegranate peel, ^oz.; alum, 2 drachms; smiths' forge water, or water in which a red-hot iron has been repeatedly thrust until the water acquires a strong taste, 3 pints. The bark and peel must be boiled in the water until the quantity has evaporated one-third; the de- coction then strained, and the alum dissolved in it. This astringent liquor or the preceding may be taken inwardly, as well as applied outwardly in the forai of fomentations. Cold fomentations are useful in sprains when active inflammation has subsided, and it is re- quired to give tone and strength to the part. The best way of applying them is to put a thick bandage upon the part, and to keep pouring cold water over it. Cold astringent fomentations mixed with sugar of lead are used for the dissipation of tumours ; but this should never be done without medical advice, as a medical man only can be the proper judge as to whether such applications should be used, and great danger frequently results from an inju- dicious attempt to dissipate affections of this