C 350 ] COO coo make it into excellent soup. No good housewife has any pretensions to rational economy who boils animal food without converting the broth into some sort of soup. When you dress a large dinner you may make good broth or portable soup at a very small cost by taking care of all the trimmings and parings of the meat, game, and jJoultry you are going to use. Wash them well, and put them into a stew- pan with as much cold water as will cover them; then set your stewpan on a hot fire. When it boils take off all the scum, and set it on again to simmer gently; put in two carrots, two turnips, a large onion, three blades of pounded mace, and a head of celery. Some mushroom parings will be a great addi- tion. Let it continue to simmer gently four or five hours, and strain it through a sieve into a clean basin. This will save a great deal of expense in buying gravy meat. It will be to little purpose to procure good provisions without you have proper utensils to prepare them in. The most expert artist cannot perform his work in a perfect manner without proper instruments. You cannot have neat work without nice tools, nor can you dress victuals well without an apparatus appropriate to the work required. In those houses where the cook enjoys the confidence of her employer so much as to be in- trusted with the care of the store-room, which is not very common, she will keep an exact account of everything as it comes in, and insist upon the weight and price being fixed to every article she purchases, and occasionally will (and it may not be amiss to jocosely drop a hint to those who supply them that she does) reweigh them for lier own satisfaction, as well as that of her em- ployer, and will not trust the key of this room to any one. She will also keep an account of everything she takes from it, and manage with as much consideration and frugality as if it was her own property she was using, endeavouring to disprove the adage that " plenty makes waste," and remembering that " wilful waste makes woeful want." Very few modern-built town houses have a pro- per place to preserve provisions in The best sub- stitute ic< a hanging safe, which you may contrive to suspend in an airy situation, and when you order meat, poultry, or fish tell the tradesman when yoii intend to dress it. He will then have it in his power to serve you with provisions that will do him credit, which the finest meat, &c., in the world will never do unless it has been kept a proper time to be ripe and tender. If you have a well-ventilated larder in a shady, dry situation you may make still surer by order- ing in your meat and poultry such a time before you want it as will render it tender, which the finest meat cannot be unless hung a proper time, according to the season and nature of the meat. Permitting this process to proceed to a certain degree renders meat much more easy of solution in the stomach, and for those whose digestive faculties are delicate it is of the utmost im- portance that it be attended to with the greatest nicety, for the most consummate skill in the culinary preparation of it will not compensate the want of attention to this. Meat that is thoroughly roasted or boiled eats much shorter and tenderer, and is in proportion more digestible than that which is under-done. It is a good plan to have a bill of fare for the week on the Saturday before ; for example, for a family of half a dozen :— Sunday Roast beef and pudding. Monday .... Fowl, and do. boiled. Tuesday .... Calf's bead and apple pie. Wednesday .. Leg of mutton. Thursday .... Do. broiled or hasbed, and pancakes. Friday Fisb and pudding. Saturday .... Fisb, or eggs and bacon. It is an excellent plan to have certain things on certain days. When your butcher or poulterer knows what you will want he has a better chance of doing his best for you, and never think of ordering beef for roasting except for Sunday. When the weather or season is very un- favourable for keeping meat, &c., give him the choice of sending that which is in the best order for dressing, that is, either ribs or sirloin of beef, or leg, loin, or neck of mutton, &c. Meat in which you can detect the slightest trace of putrescency has reached its highest degree of tenderness, and should be dressed without delajs but before this period, which in some kinds of meat is offensive, the due degree of inteneration may. be ascertained by its yield- ing readily to the pressure of the finger, and by its opposing little resistance to an attempt to bind the joint. Although we strongly recommend that animal food should be hung up in the open air till its fibres have lost some degree of their toughness, yet let us be clearly understood also to warn you that, if kept till it loses its natural sweetness, it is as detrimental to health as it is disagreeable to the smell and taste. In very cold weather bring your meat, poultry, &c., into the kitchen early in the morning. If you roast, boil, or stew it ever so gently and ever so long, if it be frozen it will continue tough and unchewable. Without veiy watchful attention to this the most skilful cook in the world will get no credit, be she ever so careful in the management of her spit or her stewpan. The time meat should hang to be tender depends on the heat and humidity of the air.