COT COU [ 3(30 ] quent concomitants of costiveness, and some- times it leads to epilepsy, apoplexy, aud con- vulsions. As it is certain that everything which in- creases the perspiration of the skin and the action of the numerous absorbent vessels of the bowels has a strong tendency to produce costive- ness, those who are apt to be so affected ought to be cautioned against all violent exercise and other causes of sweat. The passive exercise of a carriage, gentle though it be, is well known to be a predisposing cause of confinement of the bowels ; and even riding on horseback is not quite free from the same objection, but it possesses many counterbalancing good qualities. A warm soft bed is objectionable for the same reason. Much depends on diet in obviating costiveness; but it is impossible to lay down any general rule in this respect, on account of the various and conflicting constitutions of in- dividuals. It is certain, however, that generally speaking a rather stimulating food is proper in a tendency to costiveness; but every person can judge of the kind of food that suits his constitu- tion. Of laxative medicines one of the best is sulphur, about a tea-spoonful as a dose, especially in the form of an electuary, with cream of tartar and honey, or molasses ; and when a pur- gative is required none answers so well as the common Seidlitz powder taken early in the morning, and some warm tea an hour afterwards. It generally produces one loose, watery, and easy motion, with great relief to the bowels, particularly where piles, as they often do, ac- company costiveness. A still better remedy for costiveness is obtained by keeping up a regular and due secretion from the liver and other glandular organs in the interior of the body. For this purpose the infusion pr decQction of dandelion, rendered acid with cream of tartar, and taken in the quantity of three or four tea- cupsful a day, is an excellent medicine when continued for a sufficient length of time. Small doses of the blue pill, with | grain of ipecacu- anha, or f grain of tartrite of antimony at bed- time, may be at first necessary when com- mencing the dandelion and cream of tartar. COTTON. See Calico. COTTON BALLS AND REELS. The thread wound upon these are of twenty degrees of fineness. We have endeavoured to find a guide for those who are ordering cotton thread, so that by naming some particular number the haberdasher would be able at once to forward the size required. This is rendered uncertain by the manufacturers not being uniform in their numbering. When, therefore, a purchaser can- not go to the shop a sample of the required size must be sent. As an example of the variation in the numjjerjngs we give in parallel columns those of two makers. The numbers opposite to each other are alike in size. Brook's Balls Tailor's Brook's Balls Taylor's or Heels. licels. or Reels. Reels. JNo. 0 JNo. i No. 28 No. 11 lU o 12 q o oo 14. 14 4 40 16 16 5 50 18 18 6 60 20 20 7 70 30 22 8 80 40 24 9 90 60 26 10 100 100 COUGH, A cough is generally the effect of a cold [see Catarrh), which has either been improperly ti'eated or entirely neglected. When it proves obstinate there is always reason to fear the consequences, as this sliows a weak state of the lungs, and is often the forerunner of consumption. If the cough be violent and the patient young and strong, with a hard quick pulse, bleeding will be proper; but in weak and relaxed habits bleeding rather prolongs the disease. When the patient spits freely bleeding is unnecessary, and sometimes hurtful, as it tends to lessen that discharge. When the cough is not attended with any degree of feyer, and the spittle is viscid and tough, sharp pectoral medicines are to be ad- ministered, as gum ammoniac, squills, &c. Two table-spoonsful of the solution of gum ammoniac may be taken three or four times a day, more or less, according to the age and constitution of the patient. Squills may be given various ways : two ounces of the vinegar, the oxymel, pr the syrup may be mixed with the same quantity of simple cinnamon water, to which may be added an ounce of common water and an ounce of balsamic syrup. Two table-spoons- ful of this mixtui'e may be taken three or four times a day. Or, still better, take mixture of ammonia, 5^ ozs.; oxymel of squills, \ oz. Make a mixture, of which take two dessert- spoonsful often, or when the cough is trouble- some. A syrup made of equal parts pf lemon juice, honey, and sugar candy is likewise very proper in this kind of cough. A table-spoonful of it may be taken at pleasure. But when the defluxion is sharp and thin these medicines rather do hurt. In this case gentle opiates, combined with diaphoretics, oils, and mucilages, are more proper. Take solution of the acetate of ammonia, 3 drachms ; muci- lage of Gr. acacia, 1 oz.; syrup of tolu, 1 drachm; tincture of opium, 25 drops. Make a draught, to be taken at bedtime. A cup of an infusion of poppy leaves and marsh-mallow roots, or the flowers of coltsfoot, may be taken frequently; or a tea-spoonful of paregoric elixir may be put