CAR C 232 J CAP rump must be tied close. Some persons add the liver to the forcemeat, and others rub it up with the flour and butter to thicken and enrich the gravy. If the liver is not so appropriated, put it under one pinion, and the gizzard, after scoring it and dipping it in melted butter, with Cayenne and salt, under the other. Cover these appendages with paper buttered. Let your fowl be well browned. CAPSICUM is the name of several species of South American plants, known by their hollow pods, of a shining red or yellow colour, which contain many small, flat, and kidney- shaped seeds. The principal species are heart or bell pepper [Capsicum grossum), Guinea pep- per {Capsicum annuum), and bird pepper [Capsi- cum baccatum). In hot climates, as the East and West Indies, and some parts of South America, the fruit of these plants is much used for culinary purposes. It is eaten in large quantities both with animal and vegetable food, and is mixed, in greater or less proportion, with almost all kinds of sauces. The Cayenne pepper used in cookery is made from the different species of capsicum. This fruit, when ripe, is gathered, dried in the sun, and tli«n pounded; and the powder is mixed with only a, certain portion of salt, and kept for use in closely-stopped bottles. It is very generally used as a poignant ingre- dient in soups and highly-seasoned dishes. Its taste is extremely acrid, and it leaves a durable sensation of heat on the palate, which is best removed by oil or butter. When taken in small quantities Cayenne is a grateful stimulant, and, in medicine, it is both used externally and in- ternally, to promote the action of the bodily organs when languid and torpid, and it is said to have been found ef&cacious in many gouty and paralytic cases. The Guinea pepper, or annual capsicum, is considered most hardy, and in the South of Europe its fruit is eaten green by the jieasants at their breakfasts, and is preferred by them to onions or garlic. The fruit of all the species may be used in domestic economy, either as a pickle, or, when dried before a fire, and ground to powder in a common pepper-mill, as Cayenne pepper. CAPSICUMS : To Pickle. Gather the pods with the stalks on before they turn red, cut a slit down the side with a penknife, and take out all the seeds, but as little of the meat as possible; lay them in a strong brine for three days, changing it every day; then take them out, lay them on a cloth, and lay another over them till they are quite dry. Boil vinegar enough to cover them, put in some mace and nutmeg beaten small; put the pods into a glass or jar, and when the liquor is cold pour it over. Tie a Madder and leather over them. CAPSULES are small spherical or pear- shaped bags of gelatine dried, filled with the medicine intended to be taken, and then closed up. They can thus be swallowed whole, and the nauseous flavour of the medicine is not per- ceived. Balsam of copaiba is thus taken, and each capsule contains about twelve grains of it. CARAGEEN MOSS. The sea-weed, called by botanists Chondrus crispus, but commonly known by the name of Carageen moss, has long been esteemed by the peasants on the western coast of Ireland as a dietetic remedy for various diseases, more especially for consumption, dy- sentery, rickets, scrofula, and affections of the kidneys and bladder. Dissolved by being boiled in water it forms a thick mucilage more pure and agreeable than that produced from any other vegetable, and the jelly made from it is found to agree better with the stomach than any of those prepared from animal substances. A decoction of the moss made by boiling ^ oz. in 1^ pint of water or milk until reduced to a pint is recom- mended as food for children affected with scrofu- lous and rickety diseases, such as are delicate or weakly, and for infants brought up by hand, or after weaning. As an article of diet for invalids generally it is superior to isinglass, sago, and tapioca, being highly nutritious; bland, and easy of digestion. Directions for using the moss medicinally. Steep Joz. of moss in cold water for a few minutes, then withdraw it, shaking the water out of each sprig, and boil it in a quart of new or unskimmed milk until it attains the con- sistence of warm jelly. Strain, and sweeten it to the taste with white sugar; or should milk disagree with the stomach the same proportion of water may be used instead. The decoction made with milk is recommended for breakfast to consumptive patients, and that with water will be found a most agreeable kind of nourish- ment taken at intervals during the day, the flavour being varied with lemon-juice and peel, Seville orange-juice, cinnamon, bitter almonds, or any other substance most congenial to the palate. The decoction in water is also taken for the relief of cough at any time in the course of the day when it is troublesome, and it is for this purpose simply sweetened with honey or sugar, or the syrup of poppies, syrup of squills, or the honey of roses, as the case may indicate. In dysentery either the decoction in milk or water may be administered with equal advantage, and, in addition to the sweetening matter, if a tea-spoonful of the tincture of ratanhy be mixed with each cupful of it tone will thereby be given in the intestines, at the same time that nourishment will be conveyed to the system, and irritation prevented. A large tea-cupful of the decoction may be taken three or four times a day.