CUR [ 388 ] CUR Btir it, and let the jelly fall from it. On quitting the skimmer it ought to fall like treacle; if it does so it is sufficiently done. This jelly should be rose-coloured. By making it entirely of red currants and red raspberries the colour of the jelly will be red. CURRANT JELLY, VIOLET. Mix 2 lbs. of black currants with 10 lbs. of red currants; press out the juice, and pour it on 9 lbs. of fine sugar. Make your jelly the same way as rose- coloured currant jelly. CURRANT JELLY WATER. Take two large spoonsful of currant jelly, and mix it with a little warm water; then put a gill of syrup, squeeze two or three lemons in, and let the rest be water; taste, and make it to your palate, putting a little cochineal in to make it a fine colour; strain it through a sieve, and it will then be fit for use. CURRANT MARMALADE. Strip your currants off from the bunches, and soak them in boiling water until they break; then take them oS the fire, lay them on a sieve to drain, and when they are cold pass them through the same sieve to clear off the seeds ; then dry them over the fire till you bring your sugar to the blow, or soujfie, allowing as much sugar as the fruit weighs; mix all well together, and simmer it over the fire some time; then put the marmalade into pots. CURRANT PASTE. Well wash some currants, put them into a preserving pan, bruise them, and with a little water boil them to a pulp ; then press out the juice, and to every pound take 20 ozs. of loaf sugar; boil it to crack, or casse, take it from the fire, and put in the paste; then heat it over the fire, take off the scum, and put it into your paste pots or glasses; then dry and finish the same as other pastes. CURRANT PASTILS. Take i lb. of pounded loaf sugar on a plate; then a quantity of currants, which squeeze through a sieve. When that is done add the juice to the sugar till it makes a paste as clear and thick as you think proper. CURRANT PUDDING. Take lib. of currants, 1 lb. of suet, 5 eggs, 4 spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of ginger, a little powder sugar, and a little salt; boil for three hours. CURRANT, RED, CHEESE. Take the seeds from 1 lb. of very sweet red currants and i lb. of raspberries ; press them through a fine sieve ; mix with the juice i lb. of fine sugar and 6 drachms of isinglass. Having put it in the pan with ice, when it begins to set stir in a plate of whipped cream, and finish as directed for Coffee Cheese CURRANT, RED, JELLY. Strip off the currants, put them in a jar, set the jar in a kettle of hot water, and let it boil an hour; then throw the currants and juice into a fine lawn sieve, press out all the juice, and to every pint of juice put a pound of double- refined sugar; put it into a preserving pan, set it over a charcoal fire, and keep stimng till it is a jelly, which you will know by taking a little out to cool. Be careful to take off the scum as soon as it rises, and when it is jellied and very clear pour it into glasses. When cold cut round pieces of paper that will just cover the jelly dipped in brandy, and put white paper over the glasses, twisting it round the top. CURRANT SHRUB. To 5 pints of cur- rant juice, either red or white, put H\h. of loaf sugar. When dissolved add to it 1 gallon of rum or bi'andy, and clear it through a flannel bag. CURRANT SYRUP. Put 5 lbs. or 6 lbs. of red and 2 lbs. of white currants, with 2 pottles of raspberries, into a sieve; crush them, press the juice through it into a pan, and place it in a cellar to ferment. In a week's time pass the juice through a straining bag, and, having clai-ified it and boiled to souffle 4 lbs. of sugar, put the juice to it, and boil them together once ; skim, and take it from the fire. It is necessary that the currant juice should ferment, to prevent its becoming a jelly in the bottles. CURRANT TART. Pick your currants from the stalks carefully, and, having lined a dish with puff paste, strew powder sugar over the bottom of the dish; then put the fruit, sugar, and so on, in alternate layers till your dish is full; cover and bake it. Cur- rant tart is much improved by adding either raspberries or mulberries to the currants. CURRANT TARTLETS. Having taken the seeds from 1 lb. of fine ripe currants, mix- them in a pan with i lb. of powder sugar, and put them into the tartlets made as usual. When baked make a thin jelly with Jib. of crushed currants and 2 ozs. of powder sugar, with which the tartlets should be masked. CURRANT WATER. Pick Iilb. of currants and ^ lb. of raspberries, both quite ripe ; crush them, press the juice through a sieve, and put to it a quart of water and -J lb. of sugar; let it stand half an hour; then pass it through a napkin, pour it into decanters, and set them in iced water. CURRANT WATER ICE. Take one large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into. a basin, and add to it the juice of two lemons, half a gill of syrup, and a pint of water; then freeze it richly. CURRANT WINE (1). Take 16 lbs. o,f currants and 3 gallons of water; break the currants with your hands in the water, and strain the liquor off; put to it 14 lbs. of fine sugar, strain