G E L GAT r 549 1 chino, f lb. of muscadel raisins, i2 lbs. of butter, twelve yolks and twelve whole eggs, and some spoonsful of whipped cream; stone the raisins, put them into a basin with the maraschino and vanilla, pounded with the sugar and strained; cover the basin very closely, and set it aside. Make the leaven as before directed; then put three parts of the butter into a pan, melt the fourth part, and add to it; beat it to a cream, and at intervals of two minutes put in two whole eggs and two yolks until all are used. To this add the other ingredients, and finish the gateau in the same manner as Gateau de COMPIEGNE. GATHERING, in needlework, is a term usea ■where a full part is to be set into a plain one, as the sleeve of a shirt into a wristband, or the upper part of a shirt into the collar. When going to gather and to fasten in gathers take care that the loose edges are pared off, and the part that you are going to gather is cut perfectly even. Fold it into two parts, and then into four parts, and make a mark with a piece of thread at each quarter; then lay down a fold twelve or four- teen threads from the raw edge, crease it, and turn it back again. The running must be along the creased line, as it is improper to draw a thread. Gather on the ric/ht side, taking up two threads on the needle, and missing three ou more, according to the fulness of the article Take four or fiive stitches on the needle at a time, but the thread need not be drawn tightly except at every finger-length, and if a fresh thread be required take it at the half or quarters only. When you have finished the gathering draw the fulness up rather closely, and secure the thread by twisting it round a pin ; next draw the gathers straight between the thumb and fingers, and trace or sti-oke them down one at a time with a lai-ge needle. To do this neatly place the gathers side to side, and hold them down firmly and smoothly with the thumb upon the first finger, exactly as though taking them up on the needle separately. Next divide the plain part—that is, the collar or wristband—into four equal parts, and, having opened the gathers a little, pin the corresponding parts of each together, placing the edge of the wristband or collar exactly over the gathering thread ; then draw the gathering thread so as to agree in length with the wristband or collar, and fasten the thread by twisting it round the last pin The thread should never be cut until the fixing in of the right side is finished. Hold the work with the thumb upon the firet finger of the left hand, the gathers, which should be disturbed as little as possible, lying nearly from left to right, and equally distributed. Begin the first stitches at the end furthest from you, setting in the first stitches firmly and neatly, pointing the needle almost along the gathers. Take up at a time one gather only. Set the wrong side on with equal care, and observe to keep the edge of the wristband on that side, so as to agree precisely with the edge upon the right side. GELATINE is sold in shavings like isinglass, and is offered as a cheap substitute for it. It is, however, not so nutritious, and as the manufacturers can avail themselves of various materials, such as horses' bones and old skins, m its preparation, it will probably never become a popular article of food, however suitable it may be to other purposes. By a report laid before the Academy of Sciences m Paris it appears that so long ago as 1680 the celebrated French physician, Papin, had occupied himself with experiments for obtaining gelatine from bones, and had employed steam for that purpose. About a century later, just at the commence- ment of the revolution, several French chemists, and amongst them M. Darcet, continued experi- ments of this nature, and much enthusiasm was excited by the idea that they would lead to a more economical kind of food for the support of the lower classes. Every bit of bone found was then looked upon as so much solidified gelatine, and a great many false expectations were raised. M. Darcet at that time reported that gelatine could be obtained from bones in greater quantities than from meat, but that it was totally insipid, and required much seasoning before it could be made sufficiently palatable for culinary purposes. His son continued the experiments after his death for thirty years, and arrived at the con- viction that, if the bones were properly managed, four oxen might be made to yield as much nutriment as five do by the common plan. M. Darcet's machines for extracting gelatine (cylinders into which steam is turned after they are partially filled with bones) were put up in several hospitals, and continued to act for many years. They are still at work in the hospital of St. Louis, but some objections were raised to the gelatine they produced at the hospital of La Charit6 and elsewhere, as not being nutritious, and a method was adopted in which acids were employed. Dr. Donne then made some experiments on the nutritiousness of gelatine, and tried to feed dogs on it ex- clusively ; but he found that these animals allowed themselves to die of hunger rather than touch it. It has also been found in glue manu- factories that rats never touch pure gelatine, and dogs fed on bread soaked in gelatine became greatly reduced, but that three or four spoonsful of soup made from meat given daily is enough to recover them. GELATINE BLANC-MANGER. From two quarts of rich milk take a pint, and put the