BEE [ 97 ] BEE a stewpan ; <X)ver it with bacon; then put in the vegetables, with 2 large spoonsful of stock. Let the whole boil, after which let it simmer gently for three hours over a moderate fire; then let it drain, and untie your beef; pass a little of the liquor through a silk sieve, clear it from the fat, reduce it, and serve it over the beef. The beef must be glazed. BEEF RIBS (Boned and Rolled). When you have kept two or three ribs of beef till quite tender, take out the bones, and skewer it as round as possible, like a fillet of veal. Before some cooks roll it they egg it, and sprinkle it with veal stuffing. As the meat is more in a solid mass, it will require more time at the fire: a piece of 10 lbs. or 12 lbs. will not be well and thoroughly roasted in less than four hours and a half. For the first half hour it should not be less than 12 inches from the fire, so that it may get gradually warm to the centre; the last half hour before it is finished sprinkle a little salt over it, and if you wish to frost it flour it, &c. BEEF, ROUND OP. Lard your round with gammon and other bacon, well seasoned with salt, pepper, cloves, cinnamon, coriander seed, and grated nutmeg, onions, parsley, shal- lots, all well mixed together; let as much of these be stuffed into the bacon as you can, and lard the buttock both on the top and under- neath ; then season it again with all your ingre- dients, and put it into a stewpan to be stewed a little while with onions, garlic, shallots, parsley, sweet basil, thyme, slices of lemon, verjuice, and a little broth; let it lie in these for two hours, then put it into a napkin with thin slices of bacon, wrapping it up close so that no fat may enter. Put a plate in the bottom of the pot to keep the napkin and meat from being burnt at the bottom, and boil them in the evening against the next day. To season it you may put in about 2 lbs. of the leaf-fat of a hog's belly, or beef suet, putting in some white wine, verjuice, salt, long pepper, ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, slices of lemon, onion, parsley, bay leaves, sweet basil, whole coriander, anise, and fennel. When all these are put into the pot, let it be covered very closely, and let the beef be stewed very gently. When it is suf- ficiently done, let it cool in its own fat; then make a godiveau (see Godiveau) ; put it into the dish in which the piece of beef is to be dressed; then cover it with the same godiveau ; put it into an oven, and let it bake for an hour before you seiwe it at table; prepare a well-seasoned beef cullis, and make a round hole in the top of the godiveau; pour in your cullis so that it may penetrate every part, and then, above this, squeeze the juice of a lemon. This beef may be sei-ved up cold, in thin slices, instead of beef d ia royaU. BEEF, ROUND OF (Salted). As this is too large for a moderate family we shall givd directions for dressing half a round. At the tongue side skewer it tight and round, and tie a piece of broad tape round it to keep the skewers in their places ; put it into plenty of cold water, and carefully catch the scum as soon as it rises ; let it boil till all the scum is removed, and then put the boiler on one side of the fire to keep simmering slowly till it is done. Half a round of 15 lbs. will take about three hours; if it weighs more, give it more time. When you take it up, if any stray scum, &c., sticks to it that has escaped the vigilance of the skimmer, wash it off with a paste brush. Garnish the dishes with carrots and turnips. Send up carrots, turnips, and parsnips, or greens, &c., on sepa- rate dishes. Peas-pudding and any other pud- dings are all very proper accompaniments. The outside slices, which are generally too much salted and too much boiled, will make a very good relish as potted beef. For using up the remains of a joint of boiled beef, see, also, Bubble and Squeak. BEEF, RUMP OF. The rump is esteemed in France the best piece in the whole ox; it makes excellent soups, and graces the table as a middle dish. It is excellent boiled, and served plain; or, when cleansed of its fat, it may be served with a sauce made of cullis, parsley, green onions, anchovies, capers, and a little garlic ; the whole stirred fine and well seasoned. It may be served, also, boiled, and garnished with petits pates. BEEF, RUMP OF : To Bake (1). Having taken the bone clean out, beat the meat well with a rolling-pin, and lard it across with bacon, seasoned with pepper, salt, and cloves. The beef should be seasoned, also, in the same man- ner ; then put it into an earthen dish, with the broken bones, \ lb. of butter, some bay leaves whole pepper, 1 or 2 shallots, and sweet herbs ; cover the pan close^ put it into the oven, and bake for six hours. When done, skim off the fat, lay the meat in a dish, and serve it up with & ragout of mushrooms, truffles, forcemeat balls, and yolks of eggs ; add thereto the gravy which came from the beef in baking, but season it well. BEEF, RUMP OF : To Bake (2). Take a rump of beef of whatever size you please, bone and lard it; season it with salt and fine spices ; put it into a stewpan just large enough to hold it, together with \ pint of white wine, some green onions, mushrooms, and shallots. Some lean bacon is an improvement. Close the edges of the pan with a strong paste; let it stew in an oven for five or six hours, according to the size of your meat; then serve it with its own sauce strained. You may dress a sirloin in the same way.