B U T BUT I :i85 ] it is tlien to be gently pressed into a tub or firkin, whicli must not, however, be filled quite up, but room left at the top to receive a layer of salt half an inch or an inch in thickness. lu seven or eight days the salted butter detaches itself from the sides of the firkin, shrinks, and occasions interstices. These, if allowed to re- main, would injure the butter by admitting the contact of the air. They are, therefore, to be filled up with a saturated solution of salt in water or brine strong enough to carry an egg ; the butter then to be covered by a new layer of salt, and the head of the vessel put on. Before the butter is put into the firkin care must be taken that the latter—which, if new, should be of clean white wood, and carefully washed in- side with hot brine—be well seasoned; and this is effected by exposing it for two or tliree weeks to the air, and frequently washing. The readiest method, however, is by the use of unslaked lime, or a large quantity of salt and water well boiled, with which it should be scrubbed several times, and afterwards thrown into cold water, to remain three or four days till v:anted. It should then be scrubbed as before, and well iriased with cold water; and before receiving the butter every part of the inside of the firkin must be carefully rubbed with salt. Indeed, the surest of all methods to preserve butter from spoiling, after it has been properly salted, is to keep it constantly immersed in a saturated solu- tion of this substance. An excellent composition for preserving butter may be prepared by mix- ing 1 part of saltpetre, 1 part of common salt, and a parts of sugar. This thoroughly wrought into the butter will keep it sweet a very long time, and communicate to it no salt or disagree- able taste. Some use a mixture of i oz. of dry salt finely pounded, 2 drachms of sugar, and a drachms of saltpetre to every pound of butter. As butter made in the winter is generally pale or white, and its richness at the same time inferior to that which is made during the sum- mer months, the idea of excellence has been associated with the yellow colour. Means are, therefore, employed by those who prepare and sell butter to impart to it the yellow colour where that is naturally wanting. Various sub- stances have been used for this purpose, but they must all be of the resinous class, or such as are soluble in oils. Extractive matters, and such as are soluble only in water, alcohol, &c., as beet-root and cochineal, give no tinge to butter. The substances most commonly employed are the root of the carrot and the flowers of the marigold. The juice of either of these is ex- pressed and passed through a linen cloth. A small quantity of it (and the proportion neces- sary is soon leartied by experience) is diluted with a little cream, and this ihixture is added to the rest of the cream when it enters the churn. So little of this colouring matter unites with the butter that it never communicates to it any peculiar taste. Many other colouring matters have been employed, as saffron and the seed of the asparagus. Beet, the marigold, and carrot are certainly the best, and it is the latter that is chiefly used by the best farmers. Alkanet root will give every shade of colour to butter, from the lightest rose to the deepest red, by augment- ing or diminishing the proportions of it. Though the milk of the cow, when fed on rich pasture during the summer months, is almost always found to produce butter of a rich yellow colour, this is by no means the case with every animal. The goat, the sheep, the mare, and the ass, fed on the same pasture in the same season, produce milk which yields butter always more or less white. When a cow has recently calved her milk is much yellower than usual, but this soon goes off. Some counties or districts are particularly famous for the excellency of their butter. That which is made in Essex, and well known under the name of Epping butter, is the most highly esteemed of any in London and its vicinity. In the more restricted use of this appellation it is only applied to the butter made from the milk of cows which are fed in Epping forest during the summer months, where the leaves and some par- ticular plants are thought to contribute to its superior flavour. In Somerset, butter of nearly the same excellency is made, but brought to market in half-pounds instead of pounds. The Cambridgeshire salt butter is held in the highest esteem, and the London cheesemongers, by wash- ing and detaching the salt from it, often sell it at a high price for fresh butter. It is made nearly in the same way as Epping butter, and, when salted, put up in firkins of 56 lbs. York- shire and Suffolk butter is very little inferior to that of Cambridgeshire, and is often sold in London for such. Uttoxeter, in Staffordshire, has long been famous for good butter. The London cheesemongers have a sort of factory there for this article. It is bought by the pot, of a cylindrical form, weighing 14 lbs. The superior excellence of the butter produced in the Highland districts of Scotland is well known. The same delicately-flavoured kind is said to be made on the mountains of Wales, and the heatbg and commons of England. Some of the best Irish butter brought to London, after being washed and repacked, is sold as Dorsetshii'e and Cambridgeshire butter. The salt butter of Hol- land is superior to that of any other country, and forms about three-fourths of all the foreign im- ported into Britain. Frauds and abuses of various kinds are prac- tised in the salting uud packing of butter, to in-