CON CON [ 348 ] tilled water, 6^ ozs.; then add subcarlionate of potass, I di-achm; sulphate of iron, 12 grains: syrup, 2 drachms. This mixture has bceji given with mucli good effect in incipient consumption, using the above emetic twice a M'eek. It is known by the name of GriffitJis myrrh mixture. A spoonful of the following, when the cough is troublesome in the first stage of the disease, may also be given, viz.:—-Take almond mixture, 8 ozs.; oxymel of squills, ^ oz.; camphorated tincture of opium (paregoric), 2^ drachms; and tincture of foxglove, 25 drops. Or, sper- maceti, 2 drachms, and the yolk of an egg enough for solution ; then add pennyroyal water, 6 ozs.; niti-ate of potass (nitre), 1 scruple ; tincture of foxglove, 50 drops; and syrup of tolu, ^oz. Mix the following for ordinary drink:—Decoc- tion of barley, 2 pints ; gum arable, 3 drachms; and syrup of lemon, 1^ oz. Iceland moss is a favourite remedy with the physicians of the continent. It is chiefly recom- mended in those instances where the cough is attended with purulent expectoration, and in cases preceded by, or accompanied with, spitting of blood. The Iceland moss is commonly given in the form of decoction, 1^ oz. of the moss being boiled in 1 quart of milk. Of this a tea-cupful is directed to be drunk frequently in the course of the day. If milk disagree with the stomach a simple decoction of the moss in water is to be used, taking care to boil it over a slow fire, and not longer than a quarter of an hour. Or, to make the jelly, take Iceland moss, 4 ozs.; water enough to strain, IJpint; and white sugar, 4 ozs. This is more agreeable to the palate than the former, although both are equally nutritive and tonic. Means similar to the foregoing should be resorted to during the first stage of consumption. In the second or latter stages the attention must be directed towards mitigating the most distress- ing symptoms, such as cough, diarrhoea, and sweats, supporting the general health by air, moderate exercise, and mild nutritive food. To palliate the cough the almond mixture, n,s already advised, will be of service; and, if the patient's rest be much disturbed by night, tlieu from ^ to 1 grain of opium may be taken at bedtime. When a looseness arises it is to be stopped by astdingents combined with opium, as recommended further on under the head DiAERHCEA. When spitting of blood is an ex- citing symptom adopt the treatment as advised under that head. Vegetable acids, such as oranges and other fruits yielding an acid but not an acrid juice, have been much recommended to counteract the effects of absorption, on which the hectic fever is said to depend. CONTAGION. For the removal of smells, whether arising from drains or putrefying sub- stances, as well as to remove the miasma from the air in rooms where patients suHcriag with contagious or nauseous diseases are confined, iio application is so effective as chloride of lime, or bleaching powder. It removes the foliil smell from the most putrid sources. The mode of employing this powder, the chlo- ruret of lime, is simply thus:—To one part of the chloruret add forty parts of water: mix them thoroughly, and pour off the clear liquid, with which sprinkle the entire surface of the body by means of a watering-pot, or in any other convenient manner, and repeat the sprinkling twice or oftener daily, according to the tern-- perature of the atmosphere or the degree of putrefaction. Should putrefaction be far advanced, or the period a corpse is intended to be kept consider- able, it is better to surround the body with a sheet moistened in the solution, and to renew the moistening of it frequently. By these means all puti-efactive odour in the apartment may be perfectly obviated. Before approaching a corpse in putrefaction a tub should be procured, in which may be put a quantity of water (say about 49 pints), into which may be put about lib. 11 ozs. avoirdu- pois weight of the chloruret of lime, and the mixture stirred. Dip a sheet in the water con- tained in the tub, and unfold it so as to be able to withdraw it with facility, and particularly so as to be enabled to extend it very quickly over the corpse. To effect this let two persons open the sheet and place it in the liquid, holding the ends upon the edges of the tub; let this be carried to the side of the body in putrefaction, and at the same instant let the wet sheet be drawn out of the tub and laid over the body. The putrid odour soon afterwards ceases. If blood, or any other fluid proceeding from the dead body, have flowed upon the ground, pour upon this liquid one or two glasses full of the oxymuriated water; stir with a broom, and the putrid smell will disappear. This operation,, however, ought not to be thus performed when at any time it is intended the liquids spilled are to become the subject of chemical investigation, in which case the greatest quantity possible should be carefully collected for the purpose. If the infection has spread in the neighbouring places, in passages, staircases, &c., the infected places are to be sprinkled with one or two glasses of liquid chloruret of lime, and the fetid odour will cease. Care must be taken to moisten fre- quently with the liquid contained in the tub the sheet which covers the corpse: the reproduction of the putrid odour will thus be prevented. As soon as the body has been removed the sheet