[ 438 ] DUT pies, roll it out, put in tlie fruit, and pin it in a cloth ; boil it two hours. DUMPLING, LIGHT BREAD. Take as much lightened dough as will make a loaf of bread ; work into it ^ lb. of stoned raisins ; tie it up in a cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. DUMPLING, SCREW. Roll out some paste thinly in a long strip ; lay in preserves of any kind, or stewed fruit well sweetened; roll it up and close it tightly ; pin it up in a towel, and boil it an hour; eat it with butter, sugar and cream, or sauce. DUMPLINGS, BACON. Cut slices of cooked bacon, and pepper them ; roll out crusts as for apple dumplings; slice some potatoes very thin, and put them in the crust with the meat; close them up, and let them boil fast an hour. When done take them out carefully with a ladle. DUMPLINGS, CORNED. When you boil corned beef, new bacon, or pork, you can make dumplings by taking Svme grease out of the pot with some of the water, and pour it hot on a quart of Indian meal; mix and work it well; it will not require salt; make it into little round cakes. They should be stiff, or they will boil to pieces. Take out the meat when it is done, and boil the dumplings in the same water for half an hour. They may be eaten with mo- lasses, and make a good common dessert. DUMPLINGS, DROP. These are good for almost any kind of soup, and may be made of a quart of flour, two eggs, a spoonful of butter, some salt, and pepper; wet with milk and water; drop them in while it is boiling, and let them boil ten or fifteen minutes. DUMPLINGS, NORFOLK. Having made a good thick batter as for pancakes, drop it into a saucepan of boiling water. When the dump' lings are done, which will be in two or three minutes, throw them into a sieve to drain, and then turn them into a dish. They are to be eaten with sugar and butter. DUMPLINGS, RICE. Wash and pick a pint of rice ; boil it in water till it is soft; have some apples pared and cored whole; fill the holes with sugar, cover them over with rice, and tie each one separately in a cloth; boil them till the apples are done. DUMPLINGS, SUET. Chop finely 6 ozs. of suet, put it into a basin with the same quantity of flour, 6 o^s. of bread crumbs, and a tea-spoonful of salt; stir these well together, beat two eggs on a plate, add to them six tabie- spoonsful of milk, pour gradually into a basin, and mingle thv. contents thoroughly ; divide the mass into six dumplings, and tie them in sepa- rate cloths that have been floured. Boil them just an hour. These will eat very well next day fried. DUMPLINGS, SUET (Indian). Chop beef suet finely, and to a pint of Indian meal take a spoonful of suet and a little salt; pour on boiling water enough to make a stiff dough; work it well, make it into round cakes, and boil in clear water. These are good, when vegetables are scarce, to eat with meat, or as a dessert with sugar or molasses. DUMPLINGS, YEAST. Make a light dough with yeast as if for bread, using milk instead of water, and adding thereto a little salt. Let it rise an hour before the fire. Twenty minutes previously to serving get ready a stewpan of boiling water, and make the dough into balls, each about the size of an egg. Let them boil twenty minutes, and to judge when done enough stick a fork into one, and if the prongs come out clear take them up. They should be eaten with meat, sugar and butter, or salt. DUSTHOLE. See Cinders. DUTCH BEEF. Rub a lean piece of beef well with molasses or coarse sugar, and turn it often. At the end of the third day wipe the meat, and salt it with a mixture of common salt and saltpetre pounded finely. Rub this well in, and turn the beef every day for a fortnight; then roll it tightly in a coarse cloth, and press it with a large weight. Hang it to dry in the smoke of wood, turning it upside down every day. When boiled in spring water and pressed it may be cut into slices. DUTCH DROPS. This preparation for cuts and other wounds is also called Haarlem drops. It is a mixtuj-e of equal parts of oil of turpentine, tincture of guaiacum, and spirit of nitric ether, with a few drops of oils of amber and cloves. DUTCH GINGERBREAD. Mix with 4 lbs, of flour 2^ ozs. of beaten ginger; then rub in \ lb. of butter, and add 2 ozs. of caraways, as much of dried orange-peel powdered, some bruised coriander seeds, a little candied citron, and two eggs. Make the whole into a paste with 2^ lbs. of molasses, beat it well with a rolling-pin, and cut it into thirty cakes. Prick them with a fork, butter some papers, three double, one white and two brown; lay the cakes thereon, wash them over with white of egg, and put them into a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. DUTCH SAUCE. Put six spoonsful of water and four of vinegar into a saucepan, and when warm thicken the same with the yolks of two eggs. Make it quite hot, but not boiling; squeeze therein the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. This is good with meat or fish. DUTCH SAUCE FOR MEAT. Put J lb. of butter into four spoonsful of water, dredge in a little flour, chop three anchovies, and add two spoonsful of vinegar; scrape a little horse-