BAL [ fio ] BAL ficient to cover it all over, and baked in a moderately-heated oven, will cut fuller of gravy and be of a finer flavour than a boiled one. We have been in the habit of baking small codfish, haddock, and mackerel, with a dust of flour and some bits of butter put on them. Eels, when large and stuffed. Herrings and sprats in a brown pan, with vinegar and a little spice, and tied over with paper. A hare prepared the same as for roasting, with a few pieces of butter, and a little drop of milk put into the dish, and basted several times, will be found nearly equal to roasting; or cut it up, season it properly, put it into a jar or pan, and cover it over, and bake it in a moderate oven for three hours. In the same manner we have been in the habit of baking legs and shins of beef, ox cheeks, &c., prepared with a seasoning of onion, turnips, &c. They will take about four hours. Let them stand till cool to skim off the fat; then warm it up altogether, or part, as you may want it. The time each of the above articles should take depends much upon the state of the oven, and sve consider the baker a sufficient judge. If they are sent to him in time he must be very neglectful if they are not ready at the time they are ordered. Baking Pastry requires the oven to be regu- lated according to the composition of the pastry. Light pastry will not be light in appearance unless the oven is hot enough to bake quickly, yet if too hot it will burn the paste before it has time to rise. Tarts and cakes, which are iced, require a moderately-heated or slow oven, other- wise the icing will be brown before the paste is sufficiently baked. Raised pies must be baked quickly, or their sides will fall in. Practice and observation will teach much more eff'ectively than precept in operations with the oven. For baking bread, see Bread. BALDNESS rarely occurs in women, and even in very advanced age their hair becomes grey, but does not fall off. Among the pre-dis- posing causes of baldness excessive indulgence in sensual gratifications, and particularly in wine and spirits, is perhaps the principal; though old age in man usually causes the loss of hair even in the most regular livers. In modern times divers arts are practised to conceal a bald head, and a variety of preparations are offered to the credulous in the daily prints, with the solemn promise that they are infallibly calcu- lated to make the hair grow again; but, in our opinion, baldness is incurable when it arises from general debility or a feeble state of the system; but where it takes place in consequence of acute diseases, or during a tedious recovery from maliguant fevers, the growth of the hair has frequently been accelerated by the following liniment:—Take the expressed juice of bur- dock root, honey, and proof spirits, of each 1 oz., mix them together, and anoint the barren part of the head several times a day, at the same time taking care to cover it with soft flannel, ia order to promote perspiration. All the nostrums to remove baldness, such as bear's grease. Macassar oil, &c., are false and ex- pensive compounds, which, if of any use at all, are useful chiefly from the grease which they contain, and which can be purchased for a few pence. In our opinion the following applica- tions are the most efficacious for the return of the hair. If the head is naturally moist use the following:—Take palma Christi oil H oz., and oil of lavender 1 drachm; mix them, and apply every night and morning for three months to those parts of the head from which the hair has fallen. If the head is naturally dry use this compound :—Take spirits of hartshorn |-oz., olive oil 1 oz., and eau de Cologne 1 drachm; mix and use as just directed. BALLS, BLACKING (1). Dissolve 6 ozs. of brown sugar, 4 ozs. of common gum arabic, and 4 ozs. of common isinglass in a quart of hot water. Mix together ivory-black and lampblack, of each 1 lb., and with the watery solution make them into a thick paste and put into tin moulds until hard. BALLS, BLACKING (2). Take of lard, 1 oz.; beeswax, 1 oz.; melt them together gently, and add by degrees, stirring the while, ivory- black, 8 ozs.; lampblack, 8 ozs.; brown sugar, 8ozs.; and common size, 4 ozs. When cool form into cakes. BALLS, BREECHES. Mix together 1 lb. of Bath brick, 2 lbs. of pipeclay, and 4 ozs. of pumice-stone, all ground down to the finest powder. Make them into a paste with 6 ozs. of ox-gall. By the help of rose pink, yellow ocln-e, and umber, all in fine powder, any desired colour suitable to the leather breeches they are in- tended to clean may be obtained. BALLS, CLOTHES. Mix together 1 lb. of pipeclay, |lb. of fullers'earth, ^ lb. of whiting, and 1 oz. of white pepper, all in very tine powder; make them into a paste with 4 ozs. of ox-gall, and mould into cakes or balls. When dry they are very useful for removing grease spots from, and otherwise cleaning woollen clothes. BALLS, CREAM (for Washing the Hands). White curd-soap 1 lb., starch, in powder, 3 oz.; beat them together thoroughly in a mortar, adding essence of bergamot, or other perfume, 4 or 5 drops. Form them into balls weighing 1 oz. each, and dust them over with starch powder. BALLS, FIRE. Mix together 20 lbs. of coal dust, called slack, 40 lbs. of sand, and