ASP ASP [ 48 ] cut them all even alike, and throw them into a pan of clear water, and have ready a stewpan with boiling water. Put some salt in, and tie the asparagus in little bunches; put them in, and when they are a little tender take them up. If you boil them too much they will lose their colour and taste. Cut the round of a small loaf about i inch thick, and toast it brown on both sides; then dip it into the liquor the asparagus was boiled in, and lay it on your dish. Pour a little melted butter over your toast, then lay your asparagus on the toast all round the dish, with the heads inwards, and send it to table. ASPARAGUS IN CREAM. Choose the finest asparagus, and dress it as usual; parboil 1 pint of cream and a little butter; shake it about, and, when the butter is melted, season it moderately, and pour it over the asparagus. ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. Blanch some asparagus; cut it as for peas, and strew it in a little cream and butter; beat up 12 eggs and fry them as for an omelet; and when they begin to take mix the asparagus in it; when of a good colour on both sides, serve it very hot. ASPARAGUS, PICKLED. Cut and wash the heads of the largest asparagus; let them be two or three hours in cold water. Scald them very carefully in salt and water; then lay them on a cloth to cool. Make a pickle, according to the quantity of your asparagus, of white wine vinegar and bay salt, and boil it. To 1 gallon of pickle put 2 nutmegs, ^ oz. of mace, the same of whole white pepper, and pour the pickle hot over them; cover the jar with a thick cloth, and let it stand a week, then boil the pickle ; when it has stood another week, boil it a third time ; when cold, cover the jar close. ASPARAGUS SOUP (1). Cut a knuckle of veal small; put the meat into a stewpan with 1^ pint of whole white peas, 3 or 4 turnips, 2 lettuces, 1 or 2 heads of celery, and some lean ham; add 3 quarts of soft water, and stew the whole till the juices are all extracted from the meat and the peas are quite tender; take out the veal and ham; strain off the soup; and, having pulped the peas and other vegetables through a sieve, put the same into the soup with the green part of a bundle of asparagus cut very small, and add thereto some mint, chopped fine. Stew all these till the asparagus is tender, taking care not to keep it so long over the fire as to spoil the colour. If the soup wants thickening put a little flour, mixed smooth with some water or a spoonful or two of ground rice, along with the asparagus. A Uttle spinach juice, extracted by pounding the raw leaves, may be added to give it a deeper green; but this must be done after the soup is taken off the fire. ASPARAGUS SOUP (2). Take the points of asparagus and treat them in the same manner as green peas for soup; let half the asparagus be rubbed through a sieve, and the other cut into pieces of about 1 inch in length, boiled tender, and sent up with the soup. To make 2 quarts of soup there must be 1 pint of aspa- ragus heads to thicken it, and ^ pint more cut in; but care should be taken to keep them green and crisp. Some fry -J oz. of onion in butter, and rub it through a sieve, to give the soup a high flavour; but it only overcomes the delicacy of the asparagus. ASPIC. Take a knuckle of veal, a knuckle of ham, a thick slice of beef, and, if these will not make your jelly stiff enough add 2 calves' feet, or some swards of bacon, rasped; put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of rich stock, and sweat it over a stove till reduced to a glaze; then moisten it with stock, boil and skim it well. Put to it 2 onions, 2 carrots, salt, parsley, scal- lious, 4 cloves, 2 bay leaves, and 1 clove of garlic; let the whole stew for seven hours, then strain off the liquor. Break 4 eggs into a stew- pan, and put to them the liquor when cold, the juice of 2 lemons, and 2 table-spoonsful of tarragon, and beat it with a whisk over the fire till near boiling, and when it does so remove your stewpan to a smaller fire, and place fire on the lid for half an hour; then pass it through a wet double napkin. If the jelly is not suf- ficiently clear clai-ify it a second time. Put a layer of this jelly, about ^ inch thick, at the bottom of an aspic mould ; garnish it with truffles, whites of eggs, sprigs of parsley, &c., according to your taste; pour in another i inch of the jelly, while liquid, with great care, so as not to discompose your garnish; then put either calves' brains, breasts of fowls, veal, sweetbreads, cockscombs, kidneys, fat livers, or game. Be sure to lay whatever you use as equal and smooth as possible; then fill up your mould with jelly and let it stand till set. When wanted dip the mould in hot water an instant, place your dish on the top, and turn it over. ASPIC OF CHICKENS' BREASTS. Toss up 8 breasts of chickens, seasoned with salt and pepper, and then leave them to cool. Put 4 ladlesful of veloute, and 4 spoonsful of jelly, into a stewpan and reduce them to half; then add the yolk of an egg, a little sliced parsley, a bit of butter the size of an egg; mix them all well together, and pour it over the chickens ; when cold put them in the aspic mould in layers, with cockscombs, kidneys, fillets of chickens, dressed like the breasts and put in cold. Dissolve your jelly, fill up the mould with it, and let it cool and set. Turn it out as usual.