[ 329 ] COF COF smoked as many pipes. Coffee has been the favourite beverage of many distinguished per- sonages. The best coffee in the western world is made in France, where it is in universal request. In fact, throughout the continent of Europe it is generally drank. In England coffee is almost always badly made. In the east the coffee- houses, or rather booths, form a very essential part of the social system, all men of leisure as- sembling there. In these places are also to be found the famous story-tellers, who repeat long tales to attentive hearers, who show their interest by exclamations of " God save him!" " Allah deprive him of his eyes," &c., or utter warning cries to alarm the hero when danger awaits him. It often happens that the story is broken off, and continued the next day. In Egypt the drinking of coffee seems to have been at first regarded almost as a religious ceremony. The devotees who introduced it there assembled for the purpose of enjoying it on Monday and Friday evenings, when it was handed round with great solemnity, accompanied by many prayers, and with exclamations of " There is no God but God." They have two different methods of making coffee, one called buniyya, in which the grain and husk are used together, and another called kishariyya, in which the husk is used alone. A dry air and sandy soil best suit coffee; hence the Mocha is still the best, and fifty per cent, in price above any other. The roasting is a very delicate operation, as it is heavy if underdone, and very astringent if overdone. So the mill should not reduce it to powder, only equally break it; it should not be stewed, only scalded. Several kinds of grain treated in like manner make a coarse imitation of coffee, as acorns, beans, wheat, barley, &c. The usual allowance of coffee in England is about i oz. for each person; the Dutch and Germans allow about three times as much. It was formerly boiled up several times, whole black mustard seed added to increase its stimu- lant quality, and then clarified with an egg. At present it is a mere infusion,' the hot water being only run through, and the infusion heated again. Late experiments have shown that the best way of making coffee is to put the ground coffee into a wide-mouthed bottle overnight, and pour rather more than ^ pint of water over each 1| oz. of coffee; to cork the bottle; in the morning loosen the cork, put the bottle into a pan of water, and bring the water to a boiling heat. The coffee is then poured off clear, and the latter portion of it strained; that which is not drank immediately is kept closely stopped, and heated as it is wanted. The coffee should be roasted till only of a cinnamon colour, and closely covered up during roasting. In France this is done in closed iron cylinders, turned over the fire by a handle like a grindstone. The coffee should be coarsely ground soon after it is roasted and quite cool. Its aroma is better preserved by beating it in a mortar. The proportions are usually 1 pint of boiling water to 2 ozs. of coffee. The coffee being put into the water, the coffee-pot fhould be covered up, and left for two hours surrounded by hot cinders, so as to keep up the temperature without making the liquor boil. Occasionally stir it, and after two hours' infusion remove it from the fire, and allow it a quarter of an hour to settle, and when perfectly clear decant it. Isinglass or hartshorn shavings destroy its aroma. COFFEE: To Flavour with Vanilla. Take a handful of oats very clean, and let them boil for five or six minutes in soft water; throw this away, then fill it up with an equal quantity, and let it boil for half an hour; then pass this decoction through a silk sieve, and use it to make your coffee, which will acquire by this means the flavour of vanilla, and is most ex- cellent. COFFEE : To Make with Cold Water. Upon 2 ozs. of coffee pour 7 cups of cold water; then boil it until the coffee falls to the bottom. When the froth has disappeared, and it is clear at the top like boiling water, it must be taken off the fire and allowed to stand; but, as it often requires clearing, a little cold water should be poured into it the instant it is taken off the fire from boiling. A quicker method of clearing it is by putting into it a small piece of isinglass. When it has stood a sufficient time to allow it to settle pour off the infusion gently into another coffee-pot: it is then ready for use. After the infusion has been drawn off the grouts or remains may be boiled up again to make coffee for the next day. COFFEE: To Make with Hot Water. Instead of pouring cold water upon the coffee boiling water must be poured on it, taking care not to let the froth run over, which is to be prevented by pouring the water on the coffee by degrees. It is then made the same as the preceding recipe. COFFEE: To Prepare (French Method). 1. Let your coffee be dry, not in the least mouldy or damaged. 2. Divide the quantity to be roasted into two parts. 3. Roast the first part in a coffee roaster, the handle of which must be kept constantly turning until the coffee becomes of the colour of dried almonds or bread raspings, and has lost one-eiglith of its weight.