cull [ 386 ] CUR to boil add to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much salt as will lie upon the point of a small knife ; let it boil till the whey is clear; then drain it on a thin cloth or hair sieve, season it with sugar, a little cinna- mon, rose water, orange-flower water, or white wine to your taste, and put it into a star mould, or any other form you jjlease. Leave it for some hours before you turn it into a dish ; then put round it a thick cream or custard. CURDS AND CREAM. Put what quan- tity of milk you please into a pan made rather warm, and then add rennet. When the curd has come lade it into an earthen shape per- forated, or any form you please. As the whey drains fill it up without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours before it is wanted it will be very light, but for those who like it harder it should be made earlier and squeezed. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon should be put into the dish, or into a glass bowl to serve with the curd. CURDS AND WHEY. Take a number of the rough coats that line the gizzards of turkeys and fowls, clean them from the pebbles they contain, rub them well with salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a more tender and delicate curd than common rennet. When to be used break off some bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water. In eight or nine hours use the liquor as you do other rennet. CURLS. See Hair. CURRANT, BLACK, DROPS. Procure half a sieve of black currants, and put them in a pan ; mash them well with a spatula, and put them over the fire ; let them just boil, and pass them through a sieve over an earthen pan ; put what jelly comes from them into an earthen pipkin, place it on the fire, and let it boil for two hours; keep stirring it all the time with your spatula, or it will bum ; put in 2^ lbs. of powder sugar, mix it with the jam, and stir it over the fire half an hour; drop it on pewter sheets or plates in little drops from your knife, and put them into a hot stove until you find that they are quite dry; then take them off ■with a knife. CURRANT, BLACK, ICE CREAM. Take a large spoonful of black currant jelly, add to it the juice of a lemon and a pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. CURRANT, BLACK, JELLY. Make it in the same way as-j'ed currant jelly, only with this difference, that you may use very coarse sugar. CURRANT, BLACK, WATER ICE. Take a large spoonful of black currant jelly, put it into a basin, add the juice of two lemons, a gill of syrup, and half a pint of water; strain it, and freeze it richly. CURRANT, BLACK, WINE. Take 3 lbs. of ripe black currants, pick, bruise, and put them into a deep basin, with 4J bottles of brandy; add if you please some cloves and a little bruised cinnamon, and set the jar in a cool dry place for two months. At the end of that time strain off the liquor, pressing the currants well in order to extract all the juice, which put again into a jar, with If lb. of sugar; leave it till the sugar is completely melted, then strain through paper, and bottle off. This liquor becomes excellent after three or four years' keeping. CURRANT CAKES. Pick and wash the curracts, either white or red, and to H quarts of currants put 1 pint of water. When boiled run the juice through a jelly bag, but do not press the bag, and to 1 quart of juice put 3 lbs. of sugar; boil up the juice, strew in the sugar, pour it into glasses, dry it in a stove till it will turn out, and then dry the cakes on plates. CURRANT CREAM. Bruise some currants that are thorouglily ripe in boiled cream ; put in beaten cinnamon, and sweeten to your taste; then strain through a fine sieve, and serve. CURRANT, DRIED, AND CEDRAT PUDDING. Rasp the zest of a cedrat on ^ lb. of lump sugar, and scrape it into a pan, with a glass of Madeira wine and f lb. of di'ied cur- rants. Take i lb. of beef suet, 6 ozs. of marrow, both chopped very small, and 5 ozs. of flour; add to them, with 5 eggs, half a glass of cream, a pinch of salt, and half a nutmeg grated ; mix these ingredients with the currants, &c., and finish as next directed. CURRANT, DRIED, PUDDING. Chop 1 lb. of suet, and mix it with 1 lb. of flour, ^ lb. of currants well washed, a tea-spoonful of pounded ginger, half a spoonful of tincture of saffron, and a little salt; stir in a sufficient quantity of water to make it of a proper consistence, tie it in a buttered cloth, and boil it for an hour. Serve it with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. CURRANT, DRIED, SAUCE (for Venison). Boil for a few minutes 1 oz. of dried currants in half a pint of water; then add a small tea-cupful of bread crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir the whole well till it is properly smooth. CURRANT, DRIED, WAFERS. Blanch and cut I lb. of sweet almonds into very thin strips, put them into a pan, with J lb. of powder sugar, half a spoonful of flour, the grated rind of an orange, two whole eggs and one yol k, and a grain of salt; stir these ingredients with a spatula very gently, so as not to break the almonds. When well mixed butter a baking plate, about eighteen inches long by twelve wide, upon which pour your pi-eparation, spreading it with the blade of a