GAM [ 542 ] GAR it down well to make it firm, and have ready a sufiBcient quantity of small farce balls; dress tbem round and round the sides till they nearly reach the top; put in the rabbits with the seasoning, and cover the whole, wetting and fix- ing the paste firmly ; dress it round the edge ; give it an hour and a half; it must be of a fine colour for the paste. When ready to dish cut it nearly open at the top, and put in a nice sauce of reduced Espagiiole, or cover it with a sweetbread or mushroom ragout. GAMMON OF BACON is the hinder part of a flitch, the buttock, with a part of the flank attached. GANGRENE, or Incipient Mortification. When inflaiumation is likely thus to terminate the symptoms are, firstly, a sudden diminution of the pain and sympathetic fever; secondly, a livid discoloration of the part, which from being yellowish assumes a greenish hue ; thirdly, a separation of the scarf skin, under which a turbid fluid is effused; and, fourthly, when Rwelling, tension and hardness, which charac- terise this species of inflammation, subside, while, at the same time, a crackling noise is felt on touching the part, in consequence of air being generated in the cellular membrane. A gradual abatement of the inflammatory symptoms by a termination either in resolution or suppuration may be considered as prognos- ticating a favom-able issue. Should local inflammation threaten to termi- nate in gangrene, bark, opium, and ammonia are the sheet anchors, and in this stage surgical aid becomes indispensable, should it hitherto have been omitted. See Mortification. GARGLE is an application to be taken into the mouth in small quantities at a time, and by leaning the head backward to allow the gargle to reach the part of the mouth or throat diseased. A gargle is not to be swallowed. Gargle in Thrush. Borax finely powdered, 2 drachms; honey, 1 oz.; rose water, 7 ozs. Gargle in Inflammatort Sore Throat. Nitre, 2 drachms.; honey, i oz.; rose water, 6 ozs.: used frequently. Also, spirit of salt, 20 drops; honey, 1 oz. ; water, 4 ozs. Myrrh Gargle. Infusion of roses, 7|- ozs.; tincture of myrrh, J oz. Mildly astringent and cleansing. Rose Gargle. Infusion of roses, 4 ozs.; honey of roses or syrup of mulberries, ] oz. This is a simple and elegant gargle for common sore throat. GARLIC. The medical properties of garlic are various. It has long been in estimation as an expectorant in asthmas, and other pulmonary affections that are not accompanied with inflam- mation. It is also frequently of service in the dropsy, at the commencement of which it has been especially recommended, in the quantity of one or two drachms in substance for a dose. Externally applied it blisters the skin. When made into an unguent it is said to discuss cold tumours, and has been celebrated for its efiicacy in cutaneous complaints. In certain states of deafness a small clove, or bulb, of the root, when enveloped in gauze or muslin, and introduced into the ear, has been found an eflicacious remedy. GARLIC BUTTER SAUCE. Pound half a dozen cloves of garlic, and rub them through a silk sieve with a wooden spoon ; put this into a mortar with some butter, and beat it until thoroughly incorporated; then put this butter into any sauce you please. GARLIC, ESSENCE OF. Take an earthen skillet, place it on the fire, and put into it a bottle of white wine, half a glass of vinegar, the juice of two lemons, six cloves of garlic, the same number of cloves, the quarter of a nutmeg, and two bay leaves. When near boiling reduce the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for seven or eight hours ; strain it through a coarse sieve, and then filter it. Keep it in very closely corked bottles. A very small quantity of this essence is requisite to impart its flavour to a dish. GARLIC GRAVY. Cut H lb. of veal into pieces, pepper and salt them, then lay them in a stewpan, with two carrots split, four cloves of garlic sliced, J lb. of sliced ham, and a large spoonful of water. Set the stewpan over a gentle fire, and watch when the meat begins to stick, immediately on which turn it, and let it be well browned, but not burned; then dredge it with flour, and pour thereon a quart of broth, adding a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves bruised, and a lemon sliced. Set on the pan again, and let it simmer for one hour and a half longer; then take off the fat, and strain the liquoT from the ingredients by pouring it through a napkin, which must be pressed or squeezed very hard. GARLIC, PICKLED. Pick the garlic veiy clean, put it over a brisk fire in salt and water, and boil it up quickly ; drain and dry it; make a pickle of double-distilled vinegar and salt, and pour it boiling hot on the garlic. Repeat the same the next day. GARLIC SAUCE. Pound two cloves of garlic with a piece of fresh butter about the size of a small walnut, rub it through a double hair sieve, and stir into it half a pint of melted butter or beef gravy. GARLIC VINEGAR. Peel and chop 2 ozs. of garlic, put thereon a quart of white wine vinegar, cover the jar closely, and let it steep ten days, shaking it often; then pour it into small bottles. A few drops of this wiU be sufficient