cow [ 304 ] CRA. in the. presence of the person to be inoculated. The lancet should in this case be held so that the fluid may gravitate to the point of the in- strument, which is made to scratch the arm repeatedly until it reaches the true skin. Should any previous eruptive affection have taken place the operation must be postponed. From vaccine inoculation there arises not, as in the inoculated small pox, a constitutional disease requiring attention; neither is there a possibility of thereby communicating to others a fatal distemper, nor of bringing into action diseases such as scrofula and consumption; nor in this species of inoculation need the smallest regard be paid to age or season. The advantages likely to be derived from thus receiving a mild infection, perhaps capable, without much inconvenience, even of annihilating a formidable disease, and one productive of the most extensive mortality, at once strike the imagination. They seem incalculable, and such as can never be sufficiently appreciated. To distinguish the permanent and true taking of the vaccine pox— 1. A perfect vaccine scar should be distinctly observable after a lapse of twenty years, that is to say, the inflammation should have so penetrated the true skin to such a depth that the scar which it occasions should be clearly perceptible in all the periods of after life. In order to obtain this it is necessary that the scab should remain on, or at any rate that cicatrisa- tion of the sore should not be completed prior to the twenty-first day. Cases have occurred, however, in which the cicatrix has formed as early as the fourteenth or fifteenth day. In all such cases the impression of the scar wears out in course of time; the vaccination is imperfect, and the system is either partially, or after the lapse of a certain number of years, open to the attacks of small pox. 2. A true vaccine scar should be circular, or nearly so; that is to say, the specific inflamma- tion should not have been superseded by common inflammation. Should this, indeed, take place late in the disease the scar may be irregular, but the vaccination may still be perfect. When, however, common inflammation supervenes early the scar is irregular in its form, the vaccination is incomplete, and the system remains sus- ceptible of small pox, more or less modified according to the degree of perfection which the vaccine vesicle may previously have attained. The diameter of the scar, provided that scar be circular, is of little moment. That of a six- pence or a small wafer appears to be the largest which is compatible with complete security. 3. The perfect vaccine scar should be in- dented and radiated. It may be proper to pre- mise that the vaccine vesicle has a regular organisation, consisting of cells tied down by a central band, like that of small pox; and it is certainly a mark of the perfection of the vaccine process when the indentations and striae of the original cells remain to testify that the vesicle was uninjured in its progress. These marks are not, however, essential to the per- fection of the vaccine cicatrix. COWSLIP PUDDING. Get the flowers of a peck of cowslips, cut and pound them small, with i lb. of Naples biscuits grated, and 8 pints of cream. Boil them a little, then take them off" the fire, and beat up 16 eggs with a little cream and rose water. Sweeten to your palate. Mix all well together; butter a dish and pour it in. Bake it, and when done throw fine sugar over, and serve it up. COWSLIP WINE. One gallon of water, 3 lbs. of loaf sugar, 1 Seville orange, and I lemon to every gallon of cowslip pips. First boil the sugar and water an hour, skim it clear, and when boiling pour it out, and let it stand till nearly cold; then put it into the barrel upon the pips, with about a tea-cupful of yeast to eight gallons of wine. Peel half of the oranges and lemons, squeeze the juice into the cask, cut the remainder into slices, which add with the peel. When the fermentation ceases, or has lasted a sufficient time, put to the whole a little brandy. COW'S UDDER (with Verjuice Sauce). Cut the udder in pieces, and put it into a stew- pan, with chopped parsley, chibbal, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, and butter. Let it catch ; then add a glass of white wine, broth, pepper, and salt; simmer it to a thick sauce ; then make a liaison with the yolks of two eggs and broth. When ready add a spoonful of verjuice or lemon. CRAB : To Stew. Pick the meat carefully out of a large crab and its claws; cut it into small pieces; mix it with about a fourth part of bread crumbs and a very small quantity of finely shred parsley; season it well, and return it to the shell, with some small bits of butter here and there, enough when warmed to keep it moist. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, or a spoonful of lemon pickle or acid sauce ; put a thick layer of crumbs of bread upon the top, with small bits of butter laid all over it, and bake it in the shell before the fire or in the oven. The shell of one crab will contain the meat of two. CRAB, FARCED. Boil a crab, take the meat out of the shell, and mince the claws with a fresh eel; season it with salt, cloves, mace, and sweet herbs shred small; mix them with the yolks of eggs ; add grapes, gooseberries, or barberries, and boiled artichokes cut into dice if in season or asparagus boiled ; some almond