CRE CRE [ 372 -J it to the consistence of cream, and take it off again. As it cools stir in a table-spoonful of rose or orange-flower water, or a little syrup of clove gillyflowers, and a few drops of essence of ambergris. This cream is particularly agreeable with fruit pies or tarts. It may also be made in a plain manner with lemon-peel, cinnamon, and laurel leaves only, boiled in milk, and a single egg beat up with a spoonful of rice flour. Fruit pies with cream should always be covered like tarts with puff paste, and when served up have their tops cut round and taken off, for the purpose of depositing the cream on the fruit, after which the cover may be replaced either whole or in quarters. CREAM, GERMAN. Boil a pint of Rhenish wine, some sugar, and cinnamon for half an hour; then add to it the yolks of eight eggs well beaten and strained; mix it well, and cook it in the bain-marie. CREAM, GLAZED. Put a small handful of flour into a stewpan, with some lemon-peel chopped very small, some orange flowers dried and pounded, and a lump of sugar; then beat up the yolks of 8 eggs with 1 pint of cream and ^ pint of milk, keeping the whites by themselves ; mix the yolks well together in the stewpan with the flour and other ingredients, and let it boil gently for half an hour. When the cream has thickened take it off the fire, and ■\vhip the whites of the eggs till they are well frothed; then add them to the cream; put the dish into an oven of a moderate heat, and when the cream rises well and is glazed, serve. To make it rise the dish should be covered with the lid of a saucepan, upon which fire should be placed. CREAM, GOOSEBERRY. Boil a quart of gooseberries with just as much water as will cover them; stir in ^ oz. of fresh butter ; when soft pulp them through a sieve; sweeten the pulp while hot with good sugar; then beat it up with the yolks of four eggs; serve in a dish, cups, or glasses. Good cream may be used instead of yolks of eggs. CREAM, HASTY. Take a gallon of milk warm from the cow, place it on the tire, and when it begins to rise take it off the fire and set it by; skim off all the cream, and put it into a plate; then set the skillet over the fire again, and i-epeat the skimming till your plate is full of cream; put to it some orange flower and sugar, and so serve it. CREAM, IMPERIAL. Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, and then stir it till nearly cold ; have ready in a dish or bowl that you are to serve in the juice of three lemons strained, with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream, which pour into the dish from a large teapot, holding it high and moving it about to mix it with the juice. It should be made at least six hours before it is served, and will be still better if kept a day. CREAM, ITALIAN. Put a gill of good fresh cream, two eggs, three spoonsful of powder sugar, and a little orange-flower water into a pan; whip them up together, and when the cream is sufficiently thick put it into a deep dish, with plenty of powder sugar; set it on hot ashes, cover it, and lay hot ashes on the top, which must be renewed until the cream is done enough ; then let it cool and serve it. CREAM, LEMON. Take five large lemons, and pare them as thin as possible; steep them over-night in a cupful of water with the juice; the next day strain it, and add six well-beaten eggs and ] 0 ozs. of sugar; put it over a slow fire, and stir it constantly one way; skim it, and when rather warm put it into glasses. CREAM, LEMON (Frothed). Sweeten a pint of cream with loaf sugar, put in the rind of a lemon, set it over the fire, and just let it boil; strain the juice of a large lemon into a deep china or glass dish; when the cream is nearly cold put it into a teapot, and pour it upon the juice, holding the teapot as high as possible; let it remain in the same dish. CREAM, LIGHT. Take a pint and a halt of milk, some sugar, lemon-peel, and orange- flower water; boil the whole together till re- duced to half the quantity; then take it off the fire, and let it cool. In the meantime beat up a spoonful of flour with the yolks of six eggs, keeping the whites separately, and gradually mix the yolks with the cream; strain the cream through a sieve, and put the vessel which con- tains it in some boiling water over the fire. When the cream is set take the vessel out ot the hot water; beat up the whites of your eggs to a froth; add to them some powder sugar, and cover the cream with the whites of eggs in the form of a dome; then bake it under a lid tho.t will admit fire at the top ; let the heat be moderate, and serve your cream of a fine colour CREAM LOAF. Take the crumb out of a good large roll rasped, and soak the crust e little while in milk, sugar, and lemon; then drain, fill it up with frangipane cream, and stop it up with pieces of bread; put a little into the bottom of the dish in which you serve, roll it up, put cream all over, with powder sugar; bake it in a pretty hot oven to give it a fine brown colour. CREAM A LA MADELAINE. Beat up four eggs, whites and yolks together, with a pinch of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, a small piece of pounded cinnamon, some bitter-almond biscuits pounded, half a spoonful of orange- flower water, a pint of cream, 2 ozs. of sugar, and a little salt; place a dish over some hot