CEL [ 253 ] CED for the purpose. When it is cold cut it in cakes of what size you please. CEDEAT CONSERVE (2). Rub the rind of a good sound cedrat on a piece of lump sugar, scraping it as you proceed ; dissolve this sugar in lemon-juice. Boil sugar, 1 lb. for each cedrat, to fort perle, then put in the cedrat and lemon, and proceed in the usual way. If you have not fresh cedrat the preserved cedrat must be used as follows :—Pound half or a quarter of one of these fruits, pound or pass it through a sieve, and mix it with sugar boiled as above and lemon- juice. CEDRAT CREAM. Rasp the rind of a cedrat on a piece of sugar weighing lOozs., scrape off the surface and rasp again, as usual. Infuse this sugar in boiling milk, cover, and let it stand till nearly cold; then mix it gradu- ally with 10 yolks, 1 whole egg, and a grain of salt. Strain and finish as usual-. CEDRAT CREAM A LA FRANgAISE. Rasp the rinds of two cedrats on 10 ozs. of sugar, which mix with the yolks of 8 eggs and a grain of salt. Add gradually 5 glasses of milk nearlv boiling, stirring it constantly. CEDRAT, DISTILLED CREAM OP. In- fuse the rinds of 4 very fine cedi'ats in 3 quarts of the best brandy and 1 pint of water; close the vessel tight, and let it stand several days. At the end of that time distil it in a bain marie. If the brandy is of the proper strength, the 3 quarts will yield 2 of the liquor, to which put lbs. of sugar, dissolved in 3^ pints of water. Pass the whole through a straining-bag, or filter it through paper. Oil of cedrats is made in the same manner, with the addition of l^lb. more sugar and i pint of water. CEDRAT, DRIED. Take some preserved cedrats, either whole or in quarters; wash them in a little warm water. Boil some syrup in another pan till it comes to blow; take a large spoon, and rub it well to the sides of the pan till it comes white. Dip your cedrats in, take them out, and put them on wires over another pan. Let them drain well, then put them into a hot stove for one day, till the candy dries all round them. When well dried put them into boxes, and lay a paper between every layer of CEDRAT, ICE-CREAM. Take 2 large spoonsful of essence of cedrat, put them into a basin, squeeze in 3 lemons, and add 1 pint of cream. Be careful that all the essence is melted; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it accord- ing to custom. CEDRAT ICES. Take a piece of loaf sugar, and have a fresh and sound cedrat, which you must grate over a piece of paper on the piece of loaf sugar, scraping with a knife what sticks upon the sugar of the skin of the cedrat, when you have taken off the rind of the cedrat, by rasping or grating it on the sugar. Take a little clarified sugar, boiled very fine, which add to the raspings or gratings of the cedrat, with what quantity of juice of lemon you think requisite for the quantity of ices you intend making, and a little water. Pass the whole through a sieve; then ice it, and finish the same as all other ices. ' CEDRAT, MADELEINE'S. Cut 2 ozs. of preserved cedrat into small equal-sized pieces, which mix with the paste when about to be put into the mould. No other odour must be put in. CEDRAT PEEL, JELLY OF. Take fib. of lump sugar, grate on it the peels of 2 cedrats ; as the sugar becomes coloured scrape it off with a knife and grate it again, and so on until all the peel is gone. Dissolve the scraped sugar in 2 glasses of water, and, with the juice of 4 lemons, pass it through a jelly bag. Clarify the remainder of the sugar, and then put a fourth of it into a small preserving-pan. Boil it to a caramel height, to colour the jelly. Mix this, the fruit, the syrup, and 1 oz. of isinglass together, and finish in the usual way. CEDRAT PUDDING. Cut the crumb of a roll into slices, and pour over them 2 glasses of boiling milk. Set it on the fire, and stir it constantly till it becomes a very spongy paste; then rub it in a mortar with 6 yolks and 2 whole eggs. Put this paste into a saucepan with J lb. of sugar, on which the zest of a cedrat has been rasped, 2 ozs. of bitter macaroons, 3 ozs. of dried currants, 3 ozs. of raisins, stoned and cut in half, 6 ozs. of marrow shred fine, ^ glass of Madeira, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated. When these ingredients are well mixed together pour them into a butter mould, and bake it for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. CEDRAT WATER. Take the yellow rind of 5 cedrats, 1 gallon of proof spirits, and 2 quarts of water. Digest the whole in a vessel closely stopped for twenty-four hours ; then draw off 1 gallon, and sweeten with fine sugar. CEDRAT WATER (Ice). Take 4 ozs. ot essence of cedrat, put it into a basin, and add to it the juice of 3 lemons, 2 gills of syrup, and i pint of water; then pass it through a sieve,- and freeze it rich, and if you have it in the shape of the cedrat, after you have filled your mould, close it well, and cover it with half a sheet of brown paper, before you put it in the ice. CELERY. This root is generally put into soups, but very little is sufficient, as the flavour is much stronger than that of other vegetables. When blanched it is eaten raw; and as a salad with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and mustard. CELERY CREAM. Put i pint of cream