GRA GRA [ 574 J put into the cask, which is then bunged up, and allowed to stand for fifteen months before being bottled. Two years in the wood, instead of fifteen months, greatly improve grape wine. In this case, however, it is necessary to examine it every six months, and make up any deficiency of quantity by adding spirit, and a small portion of water and sugar. GRAPE, RIPE, WINE (2). This is the method practised by the Hon. Charles Hamilton:— " The first year I attempted to make red wine in the usual way by treading the grapes; then letting them ferment in a vat till all the husks and impurities formed a thick crust on the top, the boiling ceased, and the clear wine was drawn from the bottom. "This essay did not answer; the wine was so very harsh and austere that I despaired of ever making red wine fit to drink; but through the harshness I perceived a flavour something like that of some French white wines, which made me hope I should succeed better with white wines. That experiment succeeded far beyond my most sanguine expectations, for the first year I made white wine it nearly resembled the flavour of Champagne, and in two or three years more, as the wines grew stronger, to my great amazement my wine had a finer flavour than the best Champagne I ever tasted; the first running was as clear as spirits, the second running was ceil de perdrix, and both of them sparkled and creamed in the glass like Cham- pagne. It would be endless to mention how many good judges of wine were deceived by my wine, and thought it superior to the best Champagne they ever drank: even the Duke de Mire Paix preferred it to any other wine; but such is the prejudice of most people to any thing of English growth, that I generally found it prudent not to declare where it grew till after they had passed their verdict upon it. The surest proof which I can give of its excellence is, that I sold it to wine merchants for fifty guineas a hogshead; and one wine merchant, to whom I sold £500 worth at one time, assured me that he sold some of the best of it at from 7s. 6d. to 10s. 6d. per bottle. After many years' experience the best method I found of making and managing it was this :—I let the grapes hang till they'had got all the maturity which the season would give them; then they were carefully cut off with a pair of scissors, and brought home to the wine barn in small quantities, to prevent their heating or pressing one another ; then they were all picked off the stalks, and all the mouldy or green ones were discarded before they were put in the press, where they were all pressed in a few hours after they were gathered. Much would run from them before the press squeezed them, from their own weight upon one another. This run- ning was as clear as water, and sweet as syrup, and all this of the first pressing and part of the second continued white; the other pressings grew reddish, and were not mixed with the best. As fast as the wine ran from the press into a large receiver it was put into hogsheads, and closely bunged up. In a few hours one could hear the fermentation begin, which would soon burst the casks if not guarded against by hooping them strongly with iron, and securing them in strong wooden frames, and the heads with wedges. In the height of the fermenta- tion I have frequently seen the wine oozing through the pores of the staves. These hogs- heads were left all the depth of the winter in a cool barn, to reap the benefit of the frosts. When the fermentation was over, which was easily discovered by the cessation of the noise and oozing, but, to be more certain, by pegging the cask, when it would run quite clear, then it was racked off into clean hogsheads, and carried to the vaults before any warmth of weather could raise a second fermentation. In March the hogsheads were examined, and if any were not quite fine they were fined down with common fish glue in the usual manner. Those that were fine of themselves were not fined down, and all were bottled about the end of March, and in about six weeks more they would be in perfect order for drinking, and would be in their prime for above one year; but the second year the flavour and sweetness would abate, and would gradually decline until, at last, it lost all flavour and sweetness; and some that I kept sixteen years became so like old Hock that it might pass for such to one who was not a perfect connoisseur. The only art I ever used to it was putting 3 lbs. of sugar candy to some of the hogsheads when the wine was first turned from the press, in order to conform to a rage that prevailed to drink nothing but very sweet Cham- pagne. I am convinced much good wine might be made in many parts of the south of England. Many parts are south of Painshill; many soils may be fitter for it, and many situations must be so, for mine was much exposed to the south- west wind (the worst of all for vines), and the declivity was rather too steep ; yet, with these disadvantages, it succeeded for many years. Indeed, the uncei-taiuty of our climate is against it, and many fine crops have been spoiled by May frosts and bad summers ; but a good year balances many disappointments." GRAPE, UNRIPE, WINE. " It has been fully proved that a compound and artificial must can be fabricated from due mixtures of sugar with the extractive matter and saline substances of fruits, capable of undergoing a