[ 7 ] ALE ALE for registering very low degrees of cold (for it lias never yet been frozen); for burning in lamps under silver tea-kettles and other utensils where a rapid beating and the absence of smoke are desirable. It forms the intoxicating ingredient of all fermented liquors, the chief of which and their sources is given by Dr. A. T. Thompson in the following table:— Names. Agua ardiente . A.rrack . . , Var. Mnhwah Arrack Tuba . . . Araka .... Araki .... Arika Brandy .... Var, Lati . . . Jtn/iia , . ItossoHo . , Troaler , Se/iis knyiivod/; Geneva. Hollands Var. Gin . . . Goldwasser . . Kirch wasser . . Maraschino . . Eum Var. Slnikaia irava Show-choo . Whiskey Ditto . . . Y-wer-a . . Vino meresel Materials from which they are Distilled. Pulque, the fermented juice of the agave . . . . [ Coarse palm sugar, named jaggery, fermented with the bark] ■j of the Mimosa leucophUa; also from rice and the fermented [ { juice of tlie palm ....... .j Flowers of the Bladhuca tree, Bassia hutyracea . . . Palm wine Koumis, fermented mare's milk Dates Fermented cow's milk, a variety of koumis . . . . ( Wine, figs, peaches, Persimmon apple, JDiospyros Virginiana, "1 \ mulherries, and sometimes other fruits . . . . / Eice Husks of grapes, mixed with aromatics .... A compound of brandy, ros-solis, and other plants . . . Husks of grapes, fermented with barley and rye . . . Lees of wine and fruit ........ Malted barley and rye, rectified on juniper berries Malted barley, rye, potatoes, rectified with turpentine . . I Wheat, barley, and rye, rectified with aniseeds, cinnamon, ] ( and other spices J Blahaleb cherry Maraska cheriy Cane sugar and molasses Maple sugar .......... A sweet grass .......... The lees of mandarin, a wine made from boiled iico . M alted and raw barley, rye, oats, and potatoes . . . Sloes ........... Tlie root of the Tee root, baked, pounded, and fermented . Distilled from pulque,the fermented juice of iheAyaveAmericana Countries producing them. Mexico. India. India. Philippine Islands. Tartary. Egypt. Tartary, Iceland. C Europe, Asia, N. and •j S.America; wherever ( wine is made. Si am. Dalmatia. Dantzic. On the Ehine. Scio. Holland. England. Dantzic. Switzerland. Zara, cap. of Dalmatia. W. Indies & S.America. North America. Kamtschatka. China. Scotland and Ireland. South of France. Sandwich Islands. Mexico. Alcohol unweakened by water, if swallowed in considerable quantity, is a poison. ALE, The superior beverage of the English people, a secondary one being porter, and the inferior small beer. The difference between ale and beer is merely in the strength, both being products of pale malt, and porter is, or ought to be, a product of brown or high-dried malt, made deeper in colour by sundry in- gredients. Ale in England is generally brewed with 5, 6, or 8 bushels of malt to the hogshead of 63 gallons, and 1 lb. of Kentish hops to every bushel of malt; the liquor or water being raised to 180° or 185°, and boiling the worts kept up for two hours. It is then fermented at 75°, and worked for two or three days. Small beer is generally made of one-third the quantity of malt, or from grains of the ale. Porter is seldom brewed by private persons, but in some of the largest establishments in the kingdom, and malt and hops are its professed bases, but its colour and flavour are altogether artificial. Gray states that 14 qrs. of pale malt, mashed at three times, with 28, 18, and 18 barrels of water, boiled with 1 cwt. of hops, and set with 36 lbs. of yeast, and cleansed with 4 lbs. of salt, will produce 34 barrels of good ale; or after the rate of 1 gallon and 1 pint for every gallon of malt. Strong ale-wort should be 1-lOth heavier than water, either by the hydro- meter or by weighing 10 parts against 11 parts; weak ale, l-16th; table beer, l-20th. Good porter is brewed with 7 qrs. of pale malt, 6 qrs. of amber malt, and 3 qrs. of brown malt, mashed at twice with 56 and 48 barrels, boiled with 113 lbs. of Kentish hops, tunned with 80 lbs. of yeast, and cleansed with 4 lbs. of salt and i\h. of flour. The produce is 56 barrels, or 32-gallons of porcer for 1 gallon of malt.—(Gray.) Six pounds of sugar is deemed equal to 1 bushel of malt in strength or body, and 1 lb. of coriander seed equal in intoxicating power. New beer is made to taste like stale by add- ing a little sulphuric acid or alum; and stale or sourish beer is made like new beer by add- ing powdered chalk or oyster-shells. The colouring used by brewers consists of brown sugar burnt till bitter, and then made into syrup with lime-water. Brewers also use bitters, consisting of extract of cocculus ludicus, extract