DEL [ 409 ] DEB be considerably facilitated by the use of tl:e tepid or warm bath. The next and one of the most important objects to debilitated persons is diet, in which respect much depends on their previous habits and modes of life. If they carefully attend to the peculiarities of their constitution, and observe ■whatever is to them salutary or hurtful, they may prolong their lives for a considerable time, provided their conduct be guided by the neces- sary knowledge and experience. In short, to guard against excess and pursue a middle course will be the best means of accomplishing the most salutary end. Debilitated persons ought to be imperceptibly hardened; the transition to a severer and more invigorating course of life must be so progressive that the convalescent be not subjected to any disagreeable restraint, and this method should likewise be continued for a sufBcient length of time, during wliich he ought never to return to his former debilitating habits. Such invalids should eat only a very small proportion of animal food, namely, white meat, which is least stimulating, together with a due quantity of the most nutritious vegetables. They may also partake of small portions of flesh broth thickened with sufScient bread, rice, &c., to render it more nourishing and less flatulent; but they ought to abstain from fat and milk unless the latter be given immediately after it is drawn from the cow. If solid food cannot be allowed, or if it irritate the stomach, recourse must be had to gelatinous aliment, such as eggs, nourishing soups, salep, barley broth, shell fish, &c., which, if taken in small quantities, are exceedingly strengthening. Pei'sons of this description ought to accommodate their whole dress to the climate and changes of the weather; they should at all times endeavour to procure a middle temperature between cold and heat; for instance, from 60° to 65°. Woollen clothing is in this respect far preferable to fur, as the latter heats the body and increases per- spiration. Flannel if worn next the skin will preserve the human frame in a more equal tem- perature than is attainable by any other substance, and at the same time protect it from the hurtful infl.uence of the two extremes. Individuals in this state require longer and less disturbed rest than those in perfect health and vigour. Labour and exercise adapted to their habits and strength will greatly promote that desirable object; likewise the tepid bath, a clean and not too soft couch, an airy, healthy, and capacious apartment, but partipularly a calm and composed mind, which last possesses a most powerful influence in preserving health and life, for without tranquillity all other means •will be ineffectual. DECANTERS. To remove the stain of port wine from a decanter fill it with cold water, and dissolve in it a table-spoonful of chloride of lime, or the same quantity of muriatic acid. Let it stand for half an hour, and then wash thoroughly in two or three waters before any wine is put in. Some stains are removed as follows:—Rinse out the bottles, and put in a piece of lighted coarse brown paper; stop closely, and when the smoke is no longer visible wash the bottles clean. This will take out all stains ; but if the decanters are very dirty they may require two or three times doing. If a stopper becomes fixed in a decanter pass a piece of thick string round the neck of the decanter just where the stopper is fixed, and draw the string backvvards and forwards briskly in the manner of a drill-bow until the neck becomes quite hot. This causes the decanter to expand and releases the stopper. Prevention is better than having to cure, and therefore it is well to know that a stopper will never become fixed if the slightest quantity of olive oil is rubbed round its ground part before being put into the decanter. DELIRIUM accompanies fevers of many different kinds. It is sometimes slight, easily removed, and scarcely to be accounted a bad sign. Very often, however, it is extremely violent, and one of the very worst signs, re-- quiring the utmost care and attention. It is either fierce or mild. The fierce delirium is preceded and accompanied by a redness of the countenance, a pain of the head, a great beating of the arteries, and noise in the ears; the eyes, in the meantime, looking red, inflamed, fierce, shining, and unable to bear the light; there is either no sleep at all or sleep troubled with horrid dreams; the wonted manners are changed; unusual peevishness and ill-nature prevail. The depravation of judgment is first observed be- tween sleeping and waking, and by the person crediting his imagination, while the perceptions of sense are neglected, and the ideas of memory occur in an irregular manner. Fury at length takes place, and sometimes an unusual and in- credible degree of bodily strength, so that several attendants can scarcely keep a single patient in his bed. The mild delirium is, on the contrary, often accompanied with a weak pulse, a pale collapsed countenance, and a vertigo when the patient sits in an erect posture. He is seldom angry, but often stupid, and some- times remarkably grieved and fearful. The loss of judgment, as in the former kind, is first perceived when the patient is half awake; but a temporary recovery ensues upon th admission of the light and the conversation of his friends. The patient mutters much to himself, and attends little to the things around him; at last, be-