[ 500 ] FIS FLA blood, will be found upon the Hnen, and the feces arc also slightly streaked with matter. This matter issues from a small ulcer, with one or more orifices, in the neighbourhood of the anus, tlie other extremity of which generally com- municates with the internal cavity of the rectum. When this disease is ascertained to be present costiveness should be guarded against chiefly by means of diet, which ought to be cooling, and consist of ripe figs, roasted apples, and articles of a similar nature. Oatmeal porridge, eaten with milk or beer for breakfast or supper, rarely fails to keep the body regular. The radical cure of this complaint must depend on the proper application of topical remedies. Much may be done by strict attention to personal cleanliness. The parts should be carefully washed with a sponge and water several times a day, and regularly after going to stool. Stimulant injections—as, for example, a solution of corrosive sublimate, or of common culinary salt, tincture of cantharides, or port wine thrown into the fistula by means of a small syringe, or elastic gum bottle furnished with a conical point—have, when duly persisted in, effected a cure ; or the orifice of the fistula may lie kept open, and a free passage given to the contained matter, by means of a tent or bougie shaped like a cone, and the ulcer be thus disposed to heal. This disease has also been attempted to be cured by introducing a bougie or flexible leaden probe into the fistula, passing it through the orifice that communicates with the rectum, and bringing it out at the anus; then twisting the two oppo- site extremities together, and occasionally tightening them, till they destroy the inter- posed substance, when the fistula, being re- duced to the state of a simple ulcer, heals. Drinking any sulphureous mineral water, such as that of Harrowgate, improves the constitution in general, and by that means tends to promote the healing of the ulcer. In cold, languid, and what are termed phlegmatic habits, tar water may be taken with considerable advantage. We knew an instance of a fistulous sore, seated near the rectum, being almost healed up by taking regularly half a pint of sea water morning and evening for six weeks together, and believe it might have been completely cured had the person persisted in this course for a sufficient length of time. It is certainly worth while to give any of these remedies a fair trial previously to having recourse to the operation, as even that does not always succeed. Ulcerations about the rectum are frequently eymptomatic of aifections of the liver. When that is known to be the case, or when they occur about the decline of life, or in persons who have resided long in warm climates, wo should not be too busy with our efforts to heal them up. In such persons they seem fre- quently to operate as salutary drains to the constitution, and to prevent the access of other diseases. Many examples have occurred of persons somewhat advanced in life being at- tacked by asthma, spitting of blood, paralysis, and even insanity, within a short period of time after undergoing the operation for the radical cure of a fistula; while others, of apparently similar constitutions, who have submitted to the inconveniency of a discharge, and been attentive to keep the parts clean and warm, have lived to an advanced period of life. In- dividuals past the meridian of life, who deter- mine to undergo the operation for fistula, should never omit to have an issue opened in some other part of the body, which may serve as a succedaneum for the natural drain they are about to obliterate. The medical treatment of fistula in ano will depend on their cause. If they arise from costiveness the remedies are obvious; if from disease of the liver, calomel and saline purges ; if from disease of the chest, as dropsy, it is difficult to say what medicine ought to be recommended. It is of great importance, how- ever, to give such medicines as will bring the fistula into a healthy state. With this view the balsam of copaiba may be given with advantage. If there be much irritation give soda, which has great efficacy in diminishing the irritability of the rectum. Aromatic medi- cines should be given, especially that which used to go by the name of Ward's paste, having been found by experience to produce excellent effects in this disease:—Take of pepper 2 drachms; elecampane and fennel seeds, of each ^ oz. These are to be mixed up with honey in the form of an electuary, of which a tea-spoonful is to be taken two or three times a day. This soon brings the fistula into a healing state ; healthy granulations shoot up from the surface; and the discharge, instead of being serous or bloody, consists of good pus. Calomel and saline purges should be occa- sionally given during the use of these aromatic medicines, with a view of promoting the secre- tions of the liver and intestines. FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. See Eye, Wateet, or Weeping, FITS. See Convulsions and Epilepsy. FLANNEL. This is unquestionably one of the most useful articles of wearing apparel, and it is much to be regretted that it is not more generally worn, as we are fully persuaded that it would be the means of preventing many diseases.