[ 216 J CAL C AL they are much done, and serve by two slices, the one above the other, putting between each a piece of butter rolled in chopped parsley. CALF'S LIVER (Hashed). Take 2 lbs. of liver, i lb. of fillet of veal, i lb. of beef, i lb. of fresh pork, ^Ib. of bacon, a piece of beef marrow the size of a walnut, an oniun, a clove of garlic, parsley, chives, chervil, and a few mushrooms. Mix, and chop them small, together with a clove pounded, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Add also ^ lb. of sausage-meat, cover it with slices of bacon, shape it into a round form, and put it into a Dutch oven upon a buttered dish. It requires two hours' baking. Serve with a roux mixed with its own gravy. You may if you like spread it with crumbs of bi'ead, or use it as forcemeat in paste. CALF'S LIVER (Roasted). Lard a calf's liver with streaky bacon. Roast, and baste it frequently with its own gravy. CALF'S LIVER (Saute). Cut a calf's liver in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and make each slice of an oval form. When thus prepared season them with salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs. Put ^Ib. of butter into your tossing-pan, and warm it; then lay in your liver, and, as soon as one side is brown, tmn it and do the other. When all are done put them into a saucepan, take the butter from the tossing- pan, and put into it a glass of Champagne and 4 ladlesful of Espagnole; reduce them to half, strain it over your liver, and heat the whole together. ■ Dish the liver en couronne, and pour the sauce over. CALF'S LIVER (Scalloped). Take a very nice white liver, and cut it in slices pared in the shape of hearts. Then stew some fine herbs, parsley, shallots, and rriushrooms, for a little time; toss up the liver in it over a gentle fire; season it, and when done on one side turn it on the other. Dish the liver; put a little flour with the herbs, moisten them with a little gravy and broth, and let them stew for ten minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and cover the liver that you have dished m miroton. CALF'S LIVER (Stewed). Cut a very good calf's liver into slices an inch thick, melt some butter in a frying-pan, and then put in the liver and brown it well on both sides; season it well. Take it from the pan, and set it to stew with the butter and chopped parsley, scallions, shallots, garlic, and a little flour. ' Moisten it with ^ pint of wine. Give the sauce a boil, and when ready to serve add a little vinegar. CALF'S LIVER (Stuffed). Take a very fine calf's liver, and lard it with large pieces of bacon, seasoned with 4 sorts of spice, pepper, salt, shrfid parsley, and onions. Lay slices of bacon at the bottom and round a braising or etewpau. Put in the liver, with 4 .carrots, 4 onions, one of them stuck with clones, 3 bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley and scallions, salt, and a bottle of white wine. Cover it with bacon and paper, and place it over a stove. When it boils cover the stove, put the pan on again, with ashes on. the lid, and let it simmer for two hours. When done strain the liquor, and put 4 spoonsful of it with 4 of poivrade. Reduce them to half, and pour this sauce over the liver. CALF'S LIVER AND BACON. Pare and trim the bacon, and fry it, and in its fat fry the liver in thickish slices, floured. Then lay both in a dish, and pour over them gravy made as follows:—Empty the pan, and put into it a small piece of butter, a little broth or water, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, and warm to gether. Garnish with fried parslev. CALF'S LIVER A LA BOURGEOISE. ■ Cut a calf's liver in slices, and put them in a stewpan, with shallot, parsley, and green onions cut small, and a piece of butter. Sliake it over the fire, and dredge it in a little flour. Moisten with a tumblerful of water, and as much of white wine, salt, and pepper. Boil it for half an hour. When quite done, and the sauce nearly consumed, put in the yollis of 3 eggs, previously beaten with 2 spoonsful of vinegar Thicken it over the fire, and serve. CALF S LIVER A LA BRAISE. Lard a calf's liver with bacon, seasoned with garlic, fine herbs, salt, and pepper. Put it into a stewpan, with ^ pint of water, some slices of bacon, part of a calf's foot, a bunch of parsley, onions, thyme, and bay leaves, salt, pepper, and spices, an onion stuck with cloves, and w glass of wine. Cover the stewpan perfectly close. When it begins to boil cover the fire with hot cinders, and let the liver continue stewing gently by it three or four hours. To prevent its burning lay sticks on the bottom of the pan, and put the liver on it. Skim oflf the fat, and strain the sauce. Serve cold in its own jelly. CALF'S LIVER CAKE. Mince and pound together a calf's liver, ^ lb. of suet, and ^Ib. of bacon ; then mix them with some chopped onions and mushrooms tossed up in butter, the yolks of 6 eggs, the whites well whisked, salt, pepper, and a glass of brandy. Line an iron saucepan with slices of bacon; place the above preparation and some sliced truffles on them, and cover the whole with bacon. Put the saucepan on a gentle fire, with ashes on the lid. When done take it off; let it cool in the saucepan. Dip it in boil ing water; loosen the cake, turn it on a dish, and remove the bacon from it. Sprinkle it with raspings, and serve it. CALF S LIVER CAKE (Cold). Pound a calf's liver, an equal quantity of bacon, and a fourth part of boiled ham; pass them through