COF [ 328 ] COF the oven. It will require but a short time baking. COFFEE. {See Breakfast.) Coffee is a pleasant, wholesome, and cheap beverage, made from the roasted and bruised grain of a tree which formerly grew only in Arabia Felix. But about 1690 the Dutch planted some of the seeds in Batavia, whence it was carried to the West Indies; so that 40,000,000lbs. are now im- ported into the United Kingdom, and about 20,000,0001bs. consumed at home. On the whole, about a sixth is brought from the east, and perhaps not a sixth of this from Arabia. The entire production is full 250,000,000 lbs. Coffee is the seed of an evergreen shrub from fifteen to twenty feet high. The leaves are four or five inches long, and two broad; smooth, green, glossy on the upper surface ; and the flowers, which grow in bunches, are white and sweet-scented. The berries and fruit are of an oval shape, about the size of a cherry, and of a dark red colour when ripe. Each contains two cells, and each cell a single seed, which is the coffee as we see it before it is roasted. Coffee is an article of but recent introduction, and the coffee shrub was first planted in Jamaica in 1732. In Arabia the trees are raised from seed sown in nurseries, and afterwards planted out in moist and shady situations on sloping grounds, or at the foot of mountains. Care is taken to conduct little rills of water to the roots of the trees, which, at certain seasons, require to be constantly surrounded with moisture. As soon as the fruit is nearly ripe the water is turned off, lest the fruit should be rendered more succu- lent. In places much exposed to the south the trees are planted in rows, and are shaded from the otherwise too intense heat of the sun by a branching kind of poplar tree. When the fruit has attained its maturity cloths are placed under the trees, and upon these labourers shake it down. They afterwards spread the berries on mats, and expose them to the sun to dry. The husk is then broken off by large and heavy rollers of wood or iron. When the coffee has thus been cleared of its husk it is again dried in the sun, and lastly winnowed with a large fan for the purpose of clearing it from the pieces of husk with which it is intermingled. A pound of coffee is generally more than the produce of one tree ; but a tree in great vigour will produce three or four pounds. The best is imported from Mocha, and this kind, which is denominated Mocha and Turkey coffee, is of a better quality than any which the European colonists are able to raise, owing, as it is supposed, to the difference of climate and soil in which it grows. It is packed in large bales, and when good appears fresh, and of a fine greenish colour. The coffee jnext in esteem to the Mocha is raised in Java, and that of the lowest price is grown in the West Indies and Brazil. The quantity of coffee annually supplied by Arabia is supposed to be upwards of 14,000,000 lbs. ' All Mahommedans drink coffee at least twice a day, very hot, and without sugar. The excel- lence depends, in a great measure, on the skill and attention of roasting. If too little roasted it is devoid of flavour, and if too much it be- comes acrid, and has a burnt taste. It is usually roasted in a cylindi'ical tin box, perforated with numerous holes, and fixed upon a spit, which runs lengthwise through the centre, and is turned by a jack or by the hand. Coffee, as commonly prepared by persons un- acquainted with its nature, is a decoction, and is boiled for some time, under the mistaken notion that the strength is not extracted unless it is boiled ; but the fact is the reverse. The fine aromatic oil which produces the flavour and strength of the coffee is dispelled and lost by boiling, and a mucilage is extracted at the same time which makes it flat and weak. The best modes are to pour boiling water through the biggin or strainer, which is found to extract nearly all the strength, or to pour boiling water upon it, and set it upon the fire, not to exceed ten minutes. As a medicine strong coffee is a powerful stimulant and cordial, and in paroxysms of the asthma is one of the best remedies; but it should be made very strong, and with almost as much coffee as water. In faintness or exhaustion from labour and fatigue, and from sick- ness, coffee is one of the most cordial restoratives. There are coffee machines in which the water is boiled, and the steam penetrates the coffee, and extracts to a great degree the fine aroma. Im- mediately afterwards boiling water is poured over it, and thus the best coffee is made. In Europe coffee is generally roasted in a cylinder, but in Asia open pans or tin plates are used, and if the time allows a boy is em- ployed, who picks out every bean when it has reached the right degree of brownness. The second difference in the Asiatic way of preparing coffee is that they pound the beans, and do not grind them. Asiatic coffee is, on the whole, much better than European, and the difference is probably owing to the different roasting, &c. The Turks and Arabs boil each cup by iiself, and only for a moment. They do not separate the coffee from the infusion, but leave the whole in the cup, and it improves the beverage very much to roast and grind the coffee just before it is used. The Turks drink coffee at all times of the day, and present it to visitors both in the forenoon and afternoon, and the opium eaters live almost entirely on coffee and opium. Beaujour tells of an opium eater who dranlc more than sixty cups of coffee in a day, and