CRA CRA [ 3G6 ] simply influencing the stomach and the legs. In the first of these affections spasm suddenly seizes the stomach. It is also attended with flatulence and excruciating pain. Errors in diet, the other ordinary acting powers improperly regulated, and diseases such as gout may pro- duce it. It may be known from inflammation of the stomach by the absence of fever and of urgent vomiting, also by the excess of the excruciating pain. This complaint, as the result of gout, unless immediately relieved, has sometimes a fatal termination. Such active remedies as brandy somewhat diluted and wine, such as Madeira and sherry, must in- stantly be had recourse to, and, in the absence of the urgent symptoms, suitable articles of generous diet. Simple cordials, volatiles, opiates, and active fomentation are proper. Ether, hartshorn, or spirit of camphor may be rubbed on the region of the stomach. Should costive- ness prevail emollient clysters ought to be injected. In cramp, as influencing the legs, there is excruciating pain. The rigidity of the pav'S and the urgency of the affection are sufficient characteristics. Though sometimes habitual and apt to return, the spasms are generally of short duration. As an attendant of the latter period of pregnancy, in consequence of the pressure of the enlarged womb on the great nerves leading to the extremities, they are also more or less transitory. They may in all cases be often prevented by pressure and tight bandages. Even should spasms arise in the intestines compression will have a tendency to remove them. Friction with the warm hand, or heated cloths and spirituous or volatile em- brocations are necessary. The person affiicted should wear flannel stockings in bed, and have at his feet a bottle of hot water. This com- plaint may sometimes be relieved by putting the opposite muscles into action. If, for in- stance, the muscles of the calf of the leg are affected, those of the front may be excited by dravnng up the foot. See Convulsions. CRANBERRIES. Gather them in diy weather, and put them into bottles with hard water. Cork them closely, and set them in a dry place. CRANBERRIES:, To Bottle. Pick them quite clean, and put them in clean bottles ; fill the bottles with cold spring water that has been previously boiled ; cement the corks, and keep them in a cool place. American cranberries and clusterberries are kept in the same way. When to be used for tarts stew them a little with a few spoonsful of water that they have been kept in and sugar. CRANBERRIES AND RICE JELLY. Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by degrees mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thicken it to a jelly; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to youi- taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat with milk and cream. CRANBERRYING. For pies and puddings with a good deal of sugar. Stewed in a jar with the same. This way they will eat well with bread, and are very wholesome. This done, pressed, and strained, the juice makes a fine drink for people in fevers. CRANBERRY JELLY. Make a very strong isinglass jelly; when cold mix it with double the quantity of cranberry juice, which must be pressed and strained from the fruit after having been stewed in a jar with a little sugar; sweeten with fine loaf sugar; boil it up, and then strain it into a mould. CRANBERRY TART. This tai't is made like all other fruit tarts. The best cranberries should be used, and well washed. A ^ lb. of sugar is the proper quantity for a quart of cran- berries. To this must be added the juice of half a lemon. Serve it cold. CRANE: To Carve. When the legs are luifolded the wings must be cut off, then taken up, and sauced with powdered ginger, vinegar, salt, and mustard. This is called, in the old phraseology, " displaying a crane." CRAPE is a light transparent fabric composed of silk, from which, by the mode of its prepara- tion, all the gloss has been taken, and which, when dyed, as it usually is, of a black colour, is worn as the sign of mourning for the dead. The weaving of crape is conducted according to the simplest method of the weaver's art, all its peculiarity being given to it in the dressing which it receives after it is taken from the loom. The silk is used without its having been washed or dyed, and consequently with all the natural viscid gum which forms a part of its composition as spun by the worm. For thin crape the only preparation which the filaments undergo previous to the weaving is the simple twisting which forms the first process of the throwing mill, and in which state the thread is technically called singles. When it is intended to make a more substantial fabric the warp is made of two and sometimes three filaments twisted together, which in that state are called tram: the weft is still composed of singles. After the web is taken from the loom it is dressed with a viscid solution of gum, which in drying causes the individual threads to resume, as far as the in- terlacing will admit, the form they originally held previous to their being twisted in the throwing mill, and thus is produced the peculiar wrinkled appearance by which crape is distin- guished. This fact will be shown if a piece of crape is washed in water hot enough to discharge