[ 488 ] FEA FEM from time to time. As they become dry tliey will fall through the meshes, and must be collected and stored for use, after being well beaten to remove the lime dust, should any adhere. Air sliould be admitted freely during the process, which may all be accomplished in about three weeks, and by this means feathers heretofore considered useless made available. FEATHERS FOR HEAD-DRESSES. Whenever returning from exposure to damp air feathers should be held to the fire for five minutes before being placed in the box or wardrobe. Feathers are cleaned by drawing them gently through the hand in soapy water slightly warm until all appearance of dirt is removed, and rinsing them successively in tepid and cold water till they are fit for the bleaching, which at the same time dries them. They are to be curled by holding the feather at a short distance from a clear fire, and with a steel netting-pin taking up each separate portion of the feather, and drawing it somewhat briskly between the pin and the thumb. Our readers may have seen paper cut in strips, and curled in this manner for ornamenting cakes, &c. White feathers are bleached in the same manner as Woollens. See Bleaching. FEET. Two rules most preventive of colds, and generally preservative of health, are to keep the feet warm by e.x.ercise, and dry by having cork or gutta percha between the two leather soles. We know many cases where parties liable to violent colds have long remained exempt from them by this precaution. It is very in- ducive of affections of the head, and preventive of sleep, to get into bed with cold feet. The most effective remedy is to put them into very hot water just before doing so. We have it recom- mended also to draw off the stockhigs just before undressing, and to rub the feet with the hand as hard as can be borne for five or ten minutes. This will diffuse a pleasurable glow, and those who do so will never have to complain of cold feet in bed. Frequent washing and rubbing them thoroughly dry with a linen cloth or flannel are useful for the same purpose. In removing from the feet the accumulating dirt that obstructs the pores, health will be pro- moted by facilitating that perspiration which nature intended. FEMALE DRESS ON FIRE. Seize any- thing sufficiently large, such as a green cloth, hearthrug, drugget, or even a linen cloth if there is no woollen at hand, and wrap it round the sufferer. At the same time lay her gently down on the floor, as it is evident the flames must have much less power on a horizontal than on a perpendicular surface. This should be done even when there is no wrapper at hand. Cold water is the best assuager of pain, and the only safe application until medical assist- ance is procured, which should immediately be sent for. Never apply oil or spirits of any kind. FEMALE SERVANTS. Every mistress of a family will admit the annoyance and in- convenience of frequent change of servants—a proceeding, too, not altogether unattended with expense, besides the worry and anxiety in- separable from the matter, and how readily any one would avoid it if possible. A frequent cause for this change proceeds from the servant wishing to improve her condition, when, having acquired experience, she imagines that she can obtain higher wages in another family. Yet the attempt does not always succeed, and there- fore the change of place is often as unpalatable to the domestic as to her mistress ; but under- taken from the inherent feeling which all possess of endeavouring to better their estate, a principle which should not be checked but stimulated, as tending to exalt the mind and character, and therefore to deter from committing wrong. Now, the increase of a few shillings in wages would often satisfy a servant, and induce her to remain in her place, who, deprived of such encouragement, would assuredly go forth to try her fortune, rather than remain in hope- less certainty that no exertion on her part could improve her condition. And this is a point worth the consideration even of those who have set a limit to their servants' wages; for it is not always the lowest paid domestic that is the cheapest, for the more skilful can fre- quently perform work which the other could not undertake without calling in the aid of charwomen, and all the concomitant evils sure to follow. It cannot be doubted that many of the evils of which mistresses complain would be remedied if they would invariably adhere to giving just and faithful characters. Every servant should be told when hired that the whole of her conduct will be communicated to her next mistress : it is a false and ill-judging lenity that dictates an opposite conduct, and is eventually injurious to both parties. Every one would wish to receive a faithful character when she applies for it her- self, and should therefore be conscientious in giving it, nor conceal even little faults, of which there would be fewer if this conduct were more generally adopted. An author, who not long ago asserted that when you admit a servant into your house you admit an enemy, perhaps approached too near the truth ; yet he might have expressed himself with less severity had he taken all the circumstances into considera- tion ; at any rate, those who would not wish to