[ 415 ] DIL DIE DIET CAKE. Boil in half a pint of water 1^ lb. of lump sugar in a pan; have at hand one pint of eggs broken (three parts 3'olks), pour in the sugar, and whisk till cold; then stir in - 2 lbs. of sifted flour, cover some square tins with white paper, fill them about three parts full, sift a little sugar over, bake them in a warm oven, and while hot take them out of the moulds. DIET DETNK is used in eruptive diseases, and by some mothers is given to their children every spring. It may be made according to either of the following recipes :—Take wood of guaiacum, 1^ oz.; China root and sarsaparilla root, of each 2 ozs.; wood of sassafras, 3 drachms; dried liquorice root, 6 drachms. For three quarts of water. Or, take wood of guaiacum, sarsaparilla root, and China root, of each 1 oz. ; senna leaves, the best, ^ oz.; rhubarb, 2 drachms. For four quarts of water; to which add, before it is boiled, subcarbonate of potash, 1 drachm; crude antimony, 4 ozs. DIGESTION, See Appetite. DIGITALIS. By this name is known medicine prepared in various forms from the leaves of the iox^ove (Digitalis purpurea). It is directly sedative, althovigh some maintain the contrary opinion, diminishing the fi'equencyof the pulse and the general irritability of the system, and increasing the action of the absorbents and the discharge by urine. The effects appear to be in a great degree connected with its sensible influence upon the body, which is indicated by feelings of slight nausea and languor. Accord- ingly every attempt to prevent these unpleasant effects, or to correct the operation of digitalis by combining it with aromatic or stimulant medicines, seems to be fatal to the diuretic powers of the remedy. Digitalis has considerable influence over the action of the heart, and in certain diseases attended with inordinate motions of that organ it proves eminently serviceable. It has been employed with great satisfaction in cases of palpitation connected with a state of general irritability, which so frequently occurs in female disorders. In substance, tincture, or infusion ; the latter form is most efficient as a diuretic. • Dose of the powdered leaves, 1 grain, in a pill twice a day. The augmentation of the dose should proceed at the rate of one fourth of the original quantity every second day until its operation becomes apparent, either on the kid- neys or on the constitution generally. If it produce such a disturbance as to occasion vomit- ing or purging its diuretic powers will be lost. In such a case the addition of a small portion of opium or opiate confection may be expedient. The distressing effects of an overdose are best counteracted by tincture of opium in brandy and water, and by the application of a blister to the pit of the stomach. It is very important that the leaves of this plant be properly collected and accurately pre- served. They should be gathered when the plant is beginning to flower, and, as it is biennial, in the second year of its growth. The largest and deepest-coloured flowers should be selected, for they are the most powerful. They should be also carefully dried until they become crisp, or they will lose much of their virtue. The too common method of tying them in bundles and hanging them up to dry should be avoided, for a fermentation is produced by such means, and the parts least exposed soon become rotten. The powdered leaves ought to be pre- served in opaque bottles, and kept from the action of light, as well as of air and moisture. A damp atmosphere has a very injurious opera- tion, by carrying off those faint poisonous effluvia with which its efficacy seems to be intimately connected. DILL {Anethum graveolens). The seeds are the parts employed. They have, when dry, an aromatic sweetish odour and a warm pungent taste, qualities residing in an essential oil, which is extracted by distillation with water and by digestion with alcohol. The bruised seeds yield their flavour to boiling water by simple infusion. The seeds are but rarely used. The distilled water is a valuable carminative for children. DILL WATER is made by pouring upon 1 lb. of bruised dill seed 6 quarts of water, and 2 fluid ozs. of spirit of wine ; put into the still, and distil over a gallon. Dose for an infant, a table-spoonful, as a relief from flatulency. DILUENTS. These are liquids of a mild qiiality, and which have a tendency to diminish thirst and the thickness of the secretions. Of this description are toast and water, acidu- lated liquids, tea, and water gruel. Toast and water is made by pouring on toasted bread a sufiicient quantity of boiling water. The clear liquor is afterwards decanted for use. Acidulated liquids are such as a combination of lemon juice, water, and sugar, or what ia called lemonade. They are also water made acidulous with currant jelly, or other such simple means. Tea as a diluent may be formed from an in- fusion of that imported from China, or it may be such as is made by boiling apples in a suitable quantity of water. Water gruel so appropriated should be sim- ply a small portion of oatmeal boiled in a lai'ge quantity of water. Diluting liquids may be had recourse to as common drink in colds, inflammatory diseases, and internal local inflammations.