APE [ 25 ] ANT ANTIMONY, FLOWERS OF, are a com- bination of sulphur and antimony, and are used as emetic, given in doses of from 1 to 3 grains. ANTIMONY, TARTRATE OF POTASH AND, commonly known as tartar emetic. It either vomits, purges, or sweats, according to the quantity exhibited. Thus ^ grain will, if the skin be kept warm, promote perspiration; A grain will procure some stools first, and per- spiration afterwards ; and 1 grain will generally vomit, and then purge, and, lastly, sweat the patient; in very minute doses, as 1-lOth or l-12th of a grain, combined with squill and ammoniacum, it acts as an expectorant. It is decidedly the most manageable and the least uncertain of all the antimonial preparations, and the practitioner would probably have but little to regret were all the other combinations of this metal discarded from our pharma- copceias. Tartar emetic, when triturated with lard, in the proportion of 1^ drachm or S drachms to 1 oz. of the latter, forms a very powerful rubefacient, occasioning a pimply eruption on the skin, and proving very serviceable in deep- seated inflammation; or the application may be made by dusting a piece of adhesive plaster with tartarised antimony, taking care to leave a margin untouched that it may more firmly adhere. All the preparations of antimony, taken in large or in continually-repeated small doses, will act as a poison. When a large quantity has been swallowed it occasions vomitings, copious and obstinate purging, contraction of the throat, cramps, symptoms of intoxication, and prostra- tion of strength. In such a case, vomiting, if not already present, should be excited by tickling the throat and the administration of ■warm, water in large quantities ; and even if it has taken place, warm water is advisable to relieve the symptoms. If, notwithstanding the employment of these means, vomiting cannot be induced, we should exhibit the decoction or tincture of bark. This was proposed by Ber- thollet, and its value is great, from the fact of its decomposing the salt. Strong tea, the de- coction of nutgalls or of astringent roots and barks generally, will answer as substitutes when the bark cannot be obtained. Opium may be employed in excessive vomitings, and the anti- phlogistic treatment is generally necessary to remove the secondarv symptoms. ANTIMONY, WINE OF, is made by dis- solving 24 grains of tartrate of antimony in lib. of sherry wine. It is usually known as antimonial wine. It is a powerful, but uncer- tain and somewhat dangerous emetic. Dose, from one to two measured drachms. ANTI-SCORBUTICS are medicines used to prevent and to cui'e sea-scurvy. This is a disease brought on by the too great use of salt meat with little or no vegetable food. All fresli vegetables are anti-scorbutics. But as fresh vegetables are not easily procured on board ship lemon or lime-juice is taken, a little spirit being added to preserve it, and an ounce is served out eveiy day to each sailor to mix with his grog. ANTI-SPASMODICS are medicines given to relieve irregular and painful contractions of the muscles. The principal preparations so used are brandy, sulphuric ether, and camphor, as stimulants; opium and belladonna, as narcotics; and bark, salts of iron, zinc, and silver, as tonics. For the spasmodic affection, called epileptic fits, the best I'emedies are the first named; but they are not to prevent a recurrence of the attack; they only relieve for the time. For cramp in any part of the body cold water is the best remedy applied to the part affected. For spasms in the side or stomach a good remedy is the following mixture. Mixtures of asafcetida and camphor, of each 2^ ozs., and of tincture of valerian, 1 oz. Mix them. One table-spoonful to be taken three or four times daily. APERIENTS, or Cathartics: Medicines which quicken or increase the evacuation from the intestines, or which, when given in a cer- tain dose, occasion purging. These remedies, from a general difference in their modes of operation, have been classed under two divi- sions—laxatives and purgatives. The former operate so mildly that they merely evacuate the contents of the intestines without occasioning any general excitement in the body, or even stimulating the exhalant vessels of the canal; the latter produce a considerable influx of fluids from these vessels, and extend their stimulant effect to the system in general; and where these effects are very violent, the purgative is further distinguished by the epithet drastic. Laxatives, then, may be said to empty the bowels simply, and to carry off extraneous matter, which is out of the coui'se of the cir- culation ; but purgatives, as they occasion a constitutional effect, may be made subservient to very important purposes. It appears that different purgatives have very different powers in relation to the several modes of operation above specified ; some medicines, for example, urge the bowels to evacuate their contents by an imperceptible action upon the muscular fibres, and little or no increase of serous discharge attends the evacuation ; such are manna, sulphur, and magnesia. There would seem, moreover, to be certain bodies that have the property of in- creasing the peristaltic motions by operating