AST L 49 ] ASP ASPIC A LA MODERNE (Little). Have ready 8 small timbale moulds 2|- inches in diameter and 3 inches high; fill and decorate them as the large aspic. Turn them out, and place 1 in the centre of your dish, 6 I'ound it, and 8 on that which stands in the centre. Garnish with a border of jelly or coloured butter. ASPIC SAUCE. Infuse chervil, tarragon, burnet, garden cress, and mint, in a little cullis for about half an hour; then strain, and add a spoonful of garlic vinegar with a little pepper and salt. ASS. Many parts of this animal either are or have been in high estimation. Its flesh is considered in Spain a great delicacy; its skin is made into shagreen; its hoof was admitted into our pharmacopoeia as late as 1618 as a discutient or disperserof tumours, and when burned was said to be remedial in epileptic and hysterical attacks. Its milk is still in high repute as being more easily digested than cows' milk, yet very nutri- tious. It neither affords butter nor cheese, but is extremely agreeable to the tender stomachs of consumptive persons, and very wholesome for young children when drunk while warm from the animal; but it should be taken at least three or four times a day, ^ pint at each time, and continued for several weeks or months, if any real benefit be expected from this simple diet. The manner of preparing artificial asses' milk, not inferior in its properties to the natural, is as follows :—Take of eryngo root, or sea-holly, and pearl barley, each ^ oz.; liquorice root, 3 ozs.; water, 2 lbs. or 1 quart. Boil down over a gentle fire to 1 pint, then strain it, and add an equal quantity of new cows' milk. Another recipe for making it is to boil 1 oz. of hartshorn shavings in 1 pint of water until they form a jelly ; then dissolve in it 2 ozs. of loaf sugar, and when cold add 1 pint of new milk, and 1 small tea-spoonful of syrup of Tolu. ASSAM TEA. See Tea. ASTHMA is not to be mistaken for ever-y difficulty of breathing; but, as is observed by Dr. Forsyth, it is a chronic disease, and may continue to give very great distress, at intervals, for a considerable number of years. It is dis- tinguished into the humid and dry asthma. The former is accompanied with an expectoration of mucus or purulent matter, but the other is not. In the genuine humoral asthma the patients are obliged to lean forward; the inspiration is short and spasmodic, and the expiration is very slow. Asthmatic people have generally some intima- tion given them of the approach of the attack, from a languor, loss of appetite, oppression, and swelling of the stomach from flatulence, which precede the fit; but it is usually near the middle of the night that the violent difficulty of breathing comes on. The duration of the paroxysm is uncertain, as it will sometimes terminate in three or four hours, while at other times it will continue for as many days without intermission. During its continuance the patient is in very great distress ; is not able to lie in bed, or scarcely to speak or cough up, so great is the difficulty of breathing; and yet, notwith- standing all this apparent interruption to the free passage of the blood through the lungs, an inflammation in this organ seldom follows an asthmatic fit. As the paroxysm wears away, and in proportion as expectoration, or a mucous secretion, begins to take place, the disease usually diminishes ; it is also sometimes speedily and effectually relieved by a spitting of blood. In the treatment of asthma blood-letting has not been generally sanctioned; as in many in- stances it has proved highly injurious, by pre- venting or delaying expectoration, from which relief is to be expected. Purging also ip at- tended with the same consequences as bleeding. Blisters and issues, it would appear, are only serviceable in those cases where asthma is a consequence of the stoppage of some long-ac- customed evacuation or habitual discharge,, or in the complicated cases of old people; but in pure spasmodic asthma they have neither been found to relieve nor prevent the fit. Costiveness in asthmatic people should be removed to prevent an accumulation of acrid matter in the intestines, by proper attention to diet, assisted with a few grains of magnesia and rhubarb. Also by an emollient clyster, to which asafoetida or oil of turpentine has been added ; viz.:—Take decoction of marshmallows, and mixture of asafoetida, of each 5 ozs,; castor oil, ^ oz. This may be repeated as occasion may seem to require. In the height of an asthmatic paroxysm an emetic would probably be attended with dan- gerous symptoms, as it might increase the accu- mulation of the blood in the vessels of the head; at the same time, in humid asthma, and during the intervals, that is, if the fit is ex- pected in the night, an emetic given in the evening will often prevent a return of the paroxysm, especially if there should chance to be any foulness of stomach, &c. A very strong infusion of roasted coffee has been found to give ease in a fit of asthma. Sir John Pringle says it is the best abater of the periodic asthma he has seen. The coffee ought to be of the best mocha, newly burnt, and made very strong immediately after grinding it. He commonly ordered 1 oz. for one cup, which is to be repeated fresh after the interval of a quarter or half an hour—to be taken without milk or sugar. Dr; Percival states that he has frequently directed coffee in asthma with great success.