BKA [ 148 3 BRA cases in a regular and increased progress; for a child has sometimes appeared in health on the very night on which it has been seized with con- vulsions, by which it was carried off a few days afterwards. The disease, in the acute form, com- monly terminates in three weeks from the first symptom ; but in some instances it has been pro- tracted to four, five, or six weeks ; and, like every other disease of the brain, it is uncertain, as it may run its course in a few days. Water on the brain has generally been sup- posed to arise in consequence either of injuries done to the brain itself, by blows, falls, &c., or from hardened tumours or excrescences within the scull, from original laxity or weakness in the brain, or from general debility, and an impover- ished state of the blood, &c. The treatment, to give a tolerable chance of success, must be prompt and active. In the first stage the indications of cure are to lessen the inflammatory action by bleeding, if the patient be about the age of puberty and of a full habit of body, from the temporal artery or jugular vein, and the symptoms run high at the onset; but if younger, or the disease more advanced, a suf- ficient quantity of blood may be withdrawn by leeches applied to the temples in the direction of the sutures, or where the bones unite. The bowels should then be thoroughly emptied by means of some active cathartic ; such as calomel with scammony or jalap, in proportion to the age and constitution, keeping up this function during the progress of the complaint with some degree of activity. For this purpose calomel may be given in divided doses, or some other mercurial preparation. Take gum resin of scamony, 4 grains; calomel, 3 grains; lump sugar, 5 grains. Make a powder, to be taken mixed in a little honey or treacle. After the bowels are cleared out an evaporating lotion should be assiduously applied to the scalp, previously shaved. Take muriate of ammonia. 1 oz.; rectified spirit, 4 ozs.; vinegar, -J- pint. To promote perspiration and increase the secretion of urine, when much heat and fever prevail, the following draught may be given to a child four years old every three hours, viz.:—Take nitre, 6 grains; tincture of fox- glove, 10 drops to 40 drops ; acetated liquor of ammonia, 2 drachms ; distilled water, 5 drachms; syrup of saff'ron, 1 drachm. Blisters to the temples, or a blister cap applied over the whole head, and a dischargfr kept up as long as pos- sible, by dressing it, after removal, with cerate of savin, or ointment of Spanish flies, is a pro- per step. Should the progress of the complaint be fortunately arrested the strength of the patient must be re-established by means of a nutritious diet. Tonic medicines, taking care to keep the bowels open and the head cool, are also recom- tneuded. BRAINS, CALVES': To Dress. Wash the brains of three calves ; take off" the skins without breaking them ; let them soak in water; cleanse and pick out what fibres may remain. Have ready a stewpan with boiling water, salt, and a glass of white vinegar; put in the brains, and let them lie a quarter of an hour. Cover a stewpan with slices of bacon, and put the brains thereon ; moisten them with a glass of white wine and double that quantity of stock; add a bunch of parsley, some young onions, and slices of lemon, but without peel or seeds. Cover the whole with bacon, and pepper over all. When done serve with Italian sauce. BRAINS, SHEEPS' : To Stew. Wash them well, and boil them in two waters; stew 12 small onions with a rasher of bacon, a bunch of parsley and scallions, 2 cloves, a little basil, a gill of white wine, some thin slices of ham, a little salt, and white pepper. When done strain oS the sauce, and serve up the brains, putting the onions and bacon, with crumbs of bread, round the dish; add an anchovy, cut fine, and a few whole capers to the sauce, and throw it over the brains. BRAISING. This is a method of dressing meat, poultry, &c., without its undergoing any evaporation. It is done by lining a braising- pan with thin slices of bacon, veal, or beef, upon which place whatever you intend to braise, and also add can'ots, onions, lemons, bay leaf, herbs, pepper and salt. To dress a dish a la braise you must have a braising-pan, which is a sort of saucepan with the lid fitting close, and bordered so as to hold hot ashes or charcoal on it. It is usual in France to secure the lid of the pan hermetically with paste, so that the contents may stew without the least evaporation. This mode of cookery preserves excellently the flavour of the viands used. Care must be taken that they are done thoroughly, and well seasoned with carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, bay leaf, and clove. BRAISING POT. A deep, well-tinned copper vessel, with two ears, the lid of which must close hermetically, and have a ledge round, so that coals or hot ashes may be placed on the top when necessary. BRAN. It is a great though common mis- take to suppose that there is no nourishment in this husk of the wheat-grain. So far from this being the case, there is more noui-ishment in the same weight of bran than of flour. Bran contains a higher per centage of gluten, gum, and fatty matter. Flour contains more starch. Thus there is less stimulating nourishment in the finest-dressed flour, and the miners, conse- quently, use it exclusively in summer. In winter they prefer a browner bread, that is, having moi-e bran in it. Bran mixed with flour enables it to retain more water, and for that