BRA [ ] BRA a titne the beat is raised so as to fuse it, and the compound metal is then run into ingots. Brass is a valuable alloy on many accounts, especially for the superior brightness of its colour, in its not being so liable to taniish by exposure to the air as copper, and in its being more readily melted, and more malleable when cold. Sieves of extreme fineness are wove with brass wire, after the manner of cambric weaving, which could not possibly be wove with copper wire. BRASS ORNAMENTS. Brass ornaments, when not gilt or lackered, may be cleaned with a mixture of tripoli, with half its quantity of sulphur, intimately mingled on a marble slab, and laid on with a piece of soft leather; or emery and oil may be applied with excellent effect, not laid on in the usual slovenly way, but with a spongy piece of the fig tree, fully saturated with the mixture. This will not only clean, but polish, and render the use of whiting tinnecessarj% and a fine colour may be given to them by two simple processes. The first is to beat sal ammoniac into a fine powder, then to moisten it with soft water, rubbing it on the ornaments, which must be heated over a char- coal fire, and rubbed dry with bran and whiting. The second is to wash the brass-work with roche alum boiled in strong ley, in the proportion of 1 oz. to 1 pint; when dry it must be rubbed with fine tripoli. Either of these processes will give to brass the brilliancy of gold. BRAWN, the pickled flesh of the boar. Boars of all breeds, ages, and sizes are slaughtered for preparing it; but those which are largest in size and deepest in the shoulder are esteemed the best. They are generally fed upon beans, and have a mixture of sulphur in their drink, and are killed about Christmas. Their carcases are boiled, seasoned, freed from the bones, gammons, head, and feet, formed into collars, pickled, rolled up in cloth, and bound with tape. The precise method of preparation is, as much as possible, kept a secret by the manufacturers, and pro- bably varies in different establishments, and has been altered and modified in the general pro- gress of modern improvement. Oxford has the highest reputation for the making of brawn; but Canterbury manufactures the greatest quan- tity. Droves of boars come to the latter city about the middle of October, and are immediately placed aside to fatten, some singly and some in groups of three or four. BRAWN : To Bake. Take raw lean brawn, and the same quantity of fat bacon; mince them small, then pound them in a stone mortar, with a handful of sage, seasoned with pepper, salt, and ginger; add the yolks of eggs and some vinegar ; then put the brawn into a cold paste, lay on butter and bay leaves, make your pie round, and bake it. To be eaten cold. BRAWN: To Choose. To choose thig article observe whether the rind be soft; for if so it is young, but if it is thick and hard it is old. Should the rind and fat, however, be more than usually tender, it is not boar, but sow or barrow-brawn. BRAWN : To Sodse. Take a brawn about three years old; cut off the head close to the roots of the ears, and cut a fine collar off the side bone and hinder legs, an inch deeper in the belly than on the back ; bone them ; bind them up equally at both ends; let them lie in water to soak for a night and a day; put them into boil- ing water, keeping them continually skimmed, and after the first quick boiling lessen the fire by degrees; let them stand over it a whole night, then take them off, put them into deep hoops, and bind them with tape ; and when they are cold put them into oatmeal and bran boiled in water. Strain it, when it is cold, through a sieve ; put in vinegar and salt, and close up tho vessel tight, and keep it for use. BRAWN, A COLLAR OF. Wash, scrape, and clean very thoroughly a large pig's head, feet, and ears ; lay them in salt and water, with a little saltpetre, for three hours. To make the collar layer, boil two ox-tails with the head, feet, and ears till all the bones can be taken out easily; then put the head round the mould, and the feet and small pieces into the middle ; put it together while hot, and press it with a heavy weight till it becomes cold. Boil for half an hour in as much of the liquor as will cover the brawn, one handful of salt, 1 oz. of pepper, and 1 or 2 bay leaves. When cold pour it over the brawn. BRAWN, MOCK. Take the bladebone out of the shoulder, and boil it gently two hours or more, according to the age of the boar. When it is cold season it veiy highly with pepper, Cayenne pepper, salt, a very little allspice, minced onion, and thyme. Let it lie a night in this seasoning. The following morning make a savoury force- meat of pounded veal, ham, beef suet, minced parsley, thyme, and au onion, a little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, pepper, and Cayenne pepper; bind it with a beaten egg, and stuff where the bone has been taken out. Put it into a deep pan with the brown side downwards, and lay under it twigs or small sticks, to keep it from sticking to the bottom; pour in a bottle of beer, and put it into the oven. When nearly done take it out, and clear off all the fat; add a bottle of Madeira and the juice of a large lemon ; return it to the oven, and bake it till it becomes as tender as a jelly, so that a straw will pierce it easily. If the boar is an old one it will require to be baked six or seven hours. This dish is eaten hot. BRAWN, SOUSE ¥0R. Boil i peck of ■wheat-bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of rose-