CHE GHA C 266 ] before it is sent to table. Cover tbefromage with biscuits, and surround the mould with pounded ice for about forty minutes; then turn it on a dish for table. CHARTREUSE. Prepare some apples, and place them in a dish like Apples a la Tubque in a puree; pare, quarter, and trim a dozen nonpareils, stew them in sugar as for a compote. Warm some currant jelly and apricot jam , dip the quarters alternately into each, and place them on the apples according to your taste. Warm the whole very gently. CHARTREUSE ALAPARISIENNE. Boil 8 fine truffles in some white wine, and when cold skin and cut them lengthwise with a root cutter ^ inch in diameter ; then take 100 cray- fish tails, or carrots prepared as for Chartreuse Printanier ; trim, and lay them at the bottom of a buttered mould; on them place the trufSes round the side of the mould, so as to form an ornamental border of some open, pleasing pat- tern, the spaces between the truffles being filled with the filets mignona of chickens, previously browned in butter and properly trimmed. On the top of this border lay a crown or ring of the crayfish tails to correspond with the bottom, and cover the whole, to the thickness of an inch, with a quenelle farce pretty firm; then fill the middle with a hlanquette of fowl, v^eal or lamb sweetbread, a ragout, or anything else you may think proper, leaving f inch of space at the top, which must be filled with a farce, Cover the whole with a buttered paper, and put it in the bain marie for an hour and a half. When turned out of the mould make a crown of small champignons, lay this on the top near the edge, and lay in the centre a single champignon; round this place 8 filets mignons in the form of CHARTREUSE PRINTANIER, Scrape 2 bunches of carrots and 2 of turnips, and then cut them into pieces about 2 inches long and f inch in diameter, and throw them into cold water. Blanch them, and then separate them. When cold put them into some good stock, with a small quantity of sugar, and set them on the edge of the stove till nearly done, when they should be placed over a hot stove. In the meanwhile take the trimmings of car- rots and turnips, a dozen onions, with a few cloves, 6 heads of celery, and 2 lettuces; moisten them with some good stock, and let the whole simmer gently, skimming it well until the vegetables are thoroughly done ; then strain the liquor from them, and when it has stood a little time strain it again, so that it may be quite clear; then stir up with some Espagnole. Take 3 small cabbages cut into quarters, blanch them over each quarter, and season them with a little salt. Tie them up, and put them in a stewpan lined with ham and bacon, with a sausage, a piece of bacon, two small partridges larded, parsley, and gi-een onions. Season the whole, and cover it with slices of bacon. Moisten it with consomme, and let it stew over a gentle fire for two hours. Whilst the above is cooking drain the carrots and turnips, and place them according to your fancy into a buttered mould, so as to cover the sides and bottom completely; then drain the cabbages in a cullender, and press the other ingredients in a napkin. Trim the bacon, and cut the sausages into thin slices. Lay the cab- bages lightly in a mould, then the bacon and sausages like a cord; then place the partridges breasts downwai'ds, and bacon and sausages on them, and fill the mould, making the top quite flat, with the cabbages. Lay a buttered paper over the whole, and put it into the bain marie for an hour. Before it is turned from the mould let it drain well. When ready for table the dish and chartreuse may be ornamented in various ways according to fancy. CHEESE. This well-known condiment is the curd formed in milk when coagulated by certain substances, and then pressed and dried for use. There are many different methods of making cheese, but the difference in quality and in flavour depends more on the district in which the cheese is made than in the mode of manu- facture. In some districts whatever mode be practised good cheese cannot be made. Cheese from new milk fresh from the cow is the best making, or one meal Gloucester cheese, of which two sorts ai'e made—thin or single cheeses, about eight to the 112 lbs., and thick or double, about four to the 112 lbs. The single cheese is mostly made from April to November; the double only in May, June, and the beginning of July. In general the milk in winter is not rich enough, and the cheeses made late in the summer do not acquire speedy firmness. The liquid for coagulating milk is called rennet or runnet. A calf's stomach-bag, or maw, is washed clean and salted thoroughly in- side and out. In two or three days, the salt left on it having run, it is hung to drain for two or three days, I'esalted, put into ajar, and covered with paper pricked with pin-holes. It may be used in a few days, but is best when kept for twelve months. When prepared for use a hand- ful of sweetbrier leaves, of dog-rose leaves, and of bramble leaves, as also two or three handsful of salt, are boiled in a gallon of water for a quarter of an hour, and when quite cold the salted maw is added. Besides rennet, cheese may be sepa rated from warm milk by many vegetable and mineral acids. Sugar and gum arable are often used, and neutral salts and others effect the purpose, and are preferred in many countries.