pov DOVER'S POWDER. This is the com- pniDid ipecacuanha )ir)wder of medical men. It is made by mixing together of powdered ipeca- cuanha, 1 drachm ; powdered opium, 1 drachm; sulphate of potasli, 1 oz. It is a powerful and very effective sudorific, ai.d may be given with great advantage in colds, rlieumatism, and some other inflammatory affections. Dose for an adult, from 5 to 20 grains, according to the patient's stomach and strength. It has been given in dropsy in still larger doses, and has produced a copious sweat wlien other sudoritics have failed. Drinking should be abstained from after taking this powder, otherwise it may pro- duce vomiting. DRACHM. See Apothecaries'Implkments, Mf-asukes, and Weights. DRAG£ES, cinnamon. See Cinnamon Dragees. DRAGfiES, COMMON. The paste for these dragees is made in the same manner as for the better sort, but the materials differ a little, thiis:—To ^\h. of gum take either equal quantities of sugar and powder, or one- third of the former to two-thirds of the latter. When these and the gum are well mixed roll out the paste until it is as thin as tlie back of a knife blade; then take a paste cutter, shaped like a sugar loaf with the top taken off, with the largest end of which cut as many pieces of the paste as will about two-thirds hll the cutter; press these through the smaller end into paper cases, and set them in a warm place for several days. This kind of dragees may, if liked, be sugared in the same manner as almonds. DRAGEES EN PASTILLAGE. These dragees are made of the same materials as the SuPEKFfNE Dragees. The only difference con- sists in their form, which resembles the bonbons. To make them it is necessary to have a number of wooden moulds (pear-tree wood is the best), on which must be stamped small squares, with various devices engraved on them. Cut your paste into small pieces, press each piece on a mould, and take off all the superabundant paste ; then dip your finger in water, and with it re- move the paste from the mould; dry thein in cases like the other dragees. DRAGEES, SUPERFINE. Put ^Ib. of the best gum dragon into a pan with a pint of cold water, cover, and let it stand for twenty- four hours; then take a strong close cloth about two feet long, and put a part of the gum into it; fold it three times so as to envelope the gum, and then wring the cloth, by which means the purest gum will be forced through; scrape , it off carefully with a knife, then proceed in the same way until all the gum be strained ; ^ut it into a marble mortar, stir it about with a psslle for half an hour, and then add to it 1 It), of douhle-relined sifted sugar; mix them together well until they become a stiff paste; divide this into five parts, four of which must be tinged as follows—red, blue, yellow, and green (the fifth white), with the usual colouring materials. Before, however, they are coloured add to each piece 1|- lb. of double-refined sugar sifted, dipping the paste in the water occasionally to enable it to receive the additional quantity of sugar. When j^ou mix in the colouring materials add also a corresponding perfume, as the red, rose water and a few drops of essence of roses ; to the blue, oil of violets; to the yellow, essence of cedar; to the green, essence of bergamot; and with the white rai.x a little orange-flower water and some drops of essence of neroli. Your paste being thus prepared, form it of what- ever little ornaments you please, such'as eggs, balls, turnips (adding green leaves to these), &c., of the white; of the yellow, apricots, pears, carrots, &c.; plums, &c., of the blue, and so on, rolling them in your hands to smooth them, and make them all quite small. To those which imitate fruits add tails and tops cut from cherry stalks, and stuck on while the paste is damp; and with a hair pencil dipped in powdered cinnabar tinge the pears, apples, and apricots, slightly breathing on them to moisten the sur- face. When all are done put them into paper cases, and set them in a warm place for several days to dry. DRAINAGE: Its Effects upon-Health. It is only very recently that the unwilling conviction has been forced, as it were, upon many house- holders, that they have been heedlessly suffer- ing in health from the neglected drainage of the land on which their houses stand, and the gardens and ditches by which they are sur- rounded. The general discomfort thus, too often stealthily and unheeded, produced upon the inmates of dwellings, their gardens, and their domestic animals, is thus briefly stated in a late Report by Her Majesty's Sanitary Com- mission :— " X. The excess of moisture on ill-drained land is the cause of fogs and damps. " 2. The damp serves as the medium of conveyance for any decomposing matter evolved in the neighbourhood, and adds to, or is the cause of, the injuiious effects of such matter when breathed. In other words, it creates atmospheric impurity. '• 3. The evaporation of the surface moisture lowers the temperature, produces chills, and creates or aggravates sudden and injurious changes or fluctuations of temperature, by which the health of the population is injured." The chief advantage of the drainage of the surrounding land to the individual occupiers or