[ 556 ] GIN GIN GINGER, ESSENCE OF. Put 3 ozs. of freshly-grated ginger and 1 oz. of tliinly-cut lemon-peel into a quart of brandy ; let it stand for ten days, shaking it up each day, and strain through blotting paper. GINGER ICE CREAM. Take 4 ozs. ol preserved ginger, pound it, and put it into a basin, with two gills of syrup, the juice ol a lemon, and a pint of cream; then freeze it. GINGER, MOCK. Peel off the outer coat of the tender stems of lettuces that are short, cut it into pieces one or two inches long, throw them into cold water, and to each pound put in a tea-spoonful of Cayenne and a little salt. Let them stand one or two days, and allow an equal proportion of fine loaf sugar, which clarify; soak some good ginger in hot water, slice it, and add it to the sugar, allowing 1^ oz. to 1 lb., and boil it fifteen minutes; strain off the water from the lettuce, and pour over it the syrup, keeping back the ginger, with which the syrup must be boiled three times and poured over the lettuce, two or three days intervening Letween each boiling; and at last add the strained juice of one or two lemons. GINGER, OXLEY'S CONCENTRATED ESSENCE OF. This is made by soaking for six or seven days, frequently shaking the mix- ture, 1 oz. of powdered ginger in a pint of proof spirit, and then filtering it through blotting paper. It is a powerful stomachic and stimulant. GINGER POP. Take fifteen gallons of water and 8 ozs. of ginger, boil them together half an hour, and then add 10 lbs of clarified sugar; let it boil a few minutes, skimming it all the time ; put the liquor into a cooler, let it stand till lukewarm, and then cork it, putting into the cask the rinds and juice of fifteen good lemons, i oz. ol isinglass melted in half a pint of warm water, a quart of brandy, and two table-spoonsful of yeast; bung up the cask, and set it in a cool cellar for ten days, when it may be strained into bottles, taking care to wire the corks. GINGER, PRALINEED. Prepare exactly as in Candied Ginger, but with sugar syrup, and when it has come to the point boil the syrup nearly to a candy height, put in the ginger, and rub the sugar round the edges of the vessel to granulate it. Lay the ginger on a fine wire grill to dry, wrap it in paper, and pack it in boxes. GINGER, PRESERVED. Take some gi'een ginger, pare it neatly with a sharp knife, and as it is pared throw it into a pan of cold water to keep it white. When you have a sufficient quantity boil it till tender, changing the water three times. Each time put it into cold water to take out the heat or spirit of the ginger, and when tender throw it into cold water. For 7 lbs. of ginger clarify 8 lbs. of refined sugar; when cold drain the ginger, and put it into an earthen pan, with a sufficient quantity of the sugar (cold) to cover it, and let it stand for a couple of days; then pour the syrup from the ginger to the remainder of the sugar, boil it some time, and when cold pour it on the ginger again, and set it by the fire three days at least; then take the syrup from the ginger, boil it, and pour it hot over the ginger; proceed in the same manner till you find the sugar has entered the ginger, boiling the syrup, and skimming off the scum that rises each time until the syrup becomes rich as well as the ginger. If the syrup is put on hot at first, or if too rich, the ginger will shrink, and will not take the sugar. GINGER SNAPS. Mix 2i lbs of flour, i lb. of butter or lard, ^ lb. of sugar, a pint of niolasses, a tea-spoonful of saleratus, and caraway seeds or ginger. The snaps should be rolled ve)-y thin, and baked only a few minutes. They soften by being kept. GINGER SPRIGS. Take three eggs, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of flour, a little ginger, and two spoonsful of rose water , mix the whole into A paste, and cut it into what form you please GINGER, SYRUP OF. This is made from an extract, first obtained by infusing in a quart of boiling water 2 ozs. of ground ginger. Filter it through paper, add to it 2 lbs of sugar, and boil it into a syrup. GINGER TEA. Strong ginger tea, sweet- ened and taken hot on going to bed, is very good. Where persons have been exposed to the air, and think they have taken fresh cold, keep the feet warm by taking a hot brick to bed, and do not increase the cold the next day. If it is not deeply seated taking this a few nights will give relief. A piece of ginger root, kept about a person to chew, is good for a tickling in the throat, which many persons are subject to when sitting in close, heated apartments, in lecture- rooms, or places of worship. GINGER WINE (1). Put ten gallons of water into a boiler, with 15 lbs, of lump sugar, and the whites of eight eggs well beaten and strained, and mix all well together while cold. When the liquor boils skim it well, put in ^ lb. of common white ginger bruised, and let it boil twenty minutes. Have in readiness the rinds of seven lemons (the rinds must be very thin), pour the liquor on them, and when cool tun it with two spoonsful of yeast. To a quart of the liquor put 2 ozs. of isinglass shavings. While warm whisk it well three or four times, and pour the whole into the barrel. Next day stop it up, in three weeks bottle it, and in three months it will be fit to drink. GINGER WINE (2). Boil four gallons of water and 7 lbs. of sugar half an hour, skimming