[ 380 j CRU CEO of flour; fill them up with the cuttings of the paste, ai-d bake in a brisk oven of a lightish red colour. In the meanwhile cut some breast of fowl into small pieces three quarters of an inch long, and a quarter wide ; also cut some very black truffles or champignons into pieces the same size, flavoured with bechamel; put these into the bain-marie, and when wanted put some into each croustade, pour in a little bechamel, cover, and serve ' them. Observe that the croustades must be opened the moment they are taken from the oven. They may be filled with any other preparation you please. ■ ■. CROUSTADE DE NO'UILLE. Mix some paste d Nouille with the yolks of twelve eggs, and when sufficiently rolled out put it into a saucepan of boiling water; let it boil a few minutes, and then, having drained it, put it into a stewpan, with I lb. of butter and a little salt. In a little while pour the paste on a dish, taking care to keep it of an equ^l thickness. When cold turn it on the slab, and cut out the croustade of the size and form you may require; then, having beaten up eight eggs, dip each croustade into it, draining and rolling each as you do them in grated brea;d crumbs. ' Do this a second time, rolling them lightly on the slab to make them smooth, and fry them a good colour in a very hot pan; open and fill them with such pre- parations as you may think proper ; then cover ar,d serve them. ■ - ' : CROuTES AU POT. Take some crusts of French bread with very little crumb in them, cut them into thin slices, and lay them in a deep dish; pour over them some broth and pot skim- mings, and set the dish over the fire until the bread is burnt to the bottorn; then take three outsides of a loaf, cutting out all the crumb; soak these in some skimmings of broth, season them with salt and pepper, and set them upright on the gratin. Just before serving drain them well, that the pottage may be quite dry; put some broth or stock in a sauce tureen, and serve.' • CROUT, SOUR. , See Sauerkraut. ■ CRULLA. See Cake, Aberdeen Crulla. ' ■ CRUMBS, FRIED. Rub bread which has been baked two days through a wire sieve or in a cloth till it is veiy fine ; put it into a stew- pan with 2 ozs. of butter,'and set it over a slow fire, stirring the crumbs about with a spoon till they are of the colour of gold ; spread them on a sieve, and let them stand to drain ten minutes, turning them often. This is an ornamental garnish to serve up with roasted sweetbread or small garnet CRUMPETS. Make 1 pint of wann milk and i pint of yeast, both strained, into a strong batter with a sufiicient quantity of flour; cover and set it in a warm place to rise ; then add i pint of warm milk and 1 oz. of butter worked up in a little flour, but only flour enough to prevent the batter from being too thin. In a quarter of an hour have the iron rings ready on a plate of iron over a stove, pour the batter into these rings, and bake them. ' CRUMPETS, NORTON. To a quart of good milk rather warm put four large spoonsful of purified yeast and a little salt, mixing it by degrees into as much flour (beating it a little to take out the lumps) as will make rather a thick batter, and add two well-beaten eggs; then cover and set it on the hearth to rise. When well risen keep taking the batter from the top with a wooden spoon, and bake it on a bake-stone or iron plate, rubbed over with a bit of butter in a clean cloth. About a quarter of a pint of batter will make a good-sized crumpet. Turn them as soon as possible after you lay them on with a tin slice the size of the cake; when browned turn them again, and lay them on a cooler part of the stove to soak a little; always keep the hottest part to pour the fresh batter upon, and take care they do not burn. As they are baked lay them on a clean cloth, and keep theca covered. When to be used toast them, or lay them on a tin, with a clean wet cloth over them; set them in the oven, and they will eat as il fresh baked. To dip them quickly in milk or water answers the same purpose as a wet cloth. Be careful not to dry them, or they will not ba nice. ' ' ' - CRUMPETS, or Pikelets. Set a sponge as for bread, excepting that half milk and half water must be used, and to every half quartern of flour two eggs must be added; beat the eggs thoroughly.' Bake the crumpets in rings as usual. CRUMPETS, POTATO. Grate some po- tatoes of the most mealy kind into some clean water, rub them through a hair sieve, adding plenty of water; then pour off the water, leaving the starch quite clear at the bottom ; mix it with the potatoes, and to about 3 lbs. of potatoes mix i lb. of flour, an egg, and a little salt; bake them in the same mannej- as crumpets, and butter them hot. A spoonful of yeast may be added. CRUST FOR CUSTARDS. Take i lb. of flour, 6 ozs. of butter, the yolks of 2 eggs, and 3 spoonsful of cream ; mix them together, and let it stand a quarter of an hour; then work it up and down, and roll it very thin. CRUST, RAISED (I). Melt in 1 pint of water 1 lb. of fresh lard ; weigh 4 lbs. of flour, put it into a basin, and when the water and lard are hot stir it by degrees with a hom amongst the flour. When well mixed work it with the hands till it is a stiff paste, when it is fit for use. CRUST, RAISED (2). Put into a sauce-