CAU OED [ 25Q ] Pour the sauce ove'-, and cover them with slices of Parmesan cheese warmed, to make them adhere to the cauliflower. Colour it with a salamander. CAULIFLOWERS, FRIED. Pick, wash, and throw them into boiling water, with a little salt, and when three parts done take them out, drain, and put them into an earthen pan, with salt, pepper, and vhiegar. Beat them up in this, and then fry them in a batter made as follows :—3 spoonsful of flour, 2 eggs, a little salt, some oil, and a tea-spoonful of brandy. CAULIFLOWERS AND GRAVY. Blanch and drain the cauliflowei's ; heat them up in a little veal gravy or blond. When done plac(} it on a dish, and add any other gravy you may think proper. Be careful not to break the cauliflowers. CAULIFLOWERS, PICKLED. Cut the cauliflowers in pieces, and throw them into boiling water for a quarter of an hour; then lay them on cloths to drain. Put them in a jar with cloves and salt, and cover them with the best vinegar. CAUSTIC is a descriptive term applied to any substance which destroys the texture of the skin or flesh to which it is applied. Thus nitric acid (aquafortis) when used for destroying warts is a caustic. The term, however, is usually employed to denote the lunar caustic (nitrate of silver). It should be generally known that this is the best of applications to chilblains. It should be rubbed over them as soon as they make their appearance, and it speedily drives them away. CAVEACH, or Pickled Mackerel. Pound and mix together 2 ozs. of Jamaica pepper, ^ drachm of mace, 1 drachm of allspice, and \ lb. of salt. Add to this a large nutmeg grated. Now empty your mackerel, and cut them cross- wise into four pieces, cutting off and throwing away the heads, but carefully preserving the livers, and melts, and roes, in the portions in which they remain in their respective slices. Cover and rub each piece of fish well with the mixed seasoning; put pepper, salt, a little butter, and some anchovies. When nearly cold roll them up into balls about the size of an egg. Moisten them with egg, strew bread-crumbs over them, and fry them of a good clear colour. Serve them with made-gravy. CAVIARE. Caviare is made in Russia from the roe of sturgeons, belugas, and many other fish. The roe is separated from the skin which incloses it, salted, and after eight days, pepper and finely-minced onions are added. It is then dried, and serves as a relish with toasted brea.'l or bread and butter. The best caviare is from the Crimea. CAVIARF* ITALIAN. Rub down some garlic in a mortar with olive oil, add lemon and fins vinegar to taste with the caviare, and mix all well together. Spread it upon bread a-ud butter, as toast for breakfast. The caviare mast be grated. CAYENNE, ESSENCE OF. Put h oz. of the pepper into \ pint of w'hite wine or brandy. Let it steep a fortnight, and then pour off the clear liquor. This is excellent seasoning for soups or sauces. CAYENNE PEPPER. Take ilb. of long red capsicum. Let it be chosen thick-skinned, and of a fine red. Dry it well in the shade. Separate and take off the stalks, put them into a mortar, with one-fourth of their weight of salt, and beat them with an iron pestle. Let care be taken that the mortar is covered well with a skin, as it is dangerous if it gets into the eyes. See Capsicum. CECILS. Mix over the fire for a few minutes the following ingredients : — Minced meat of whatever kind you please, bread-crumbs, plenty of onion, lemon-peel, nutmeg, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a little butter, and some atichovies. When nearly cold roll them up into balls about the size of an egg, moisten them with egg, strew bread-crumbs over them, and fry them of a good clear colour. Serve them with made- gravy. CEDRAT is the name the French apply to the citron. To 6 ozs. of citron-peel add 1 gallon of rectified spirit. Distil over 3 quarts, and to these add 1 lb. of the finest loaf sugar. See, also. Citron. CEDRAT BLANC-MANGE. Grate the rind of a cedrat upon some sugar in the usual way until 6 ozs. of sugar have been used. Blanch and pound 1 lb. of sweet almonds, moistening them with water. When perfectly smooth dilute them with 5 glasses of water, put in by degrees; then pour them in a napkin, and, squeezing it, express the milk of almonds from them. Divide this into 2 equal parts, with one of which mix 6 ozs. of sugar, with the cedrat, and with the other portion mix the same quantity of plain sugar. As soon as both are dissolved strain them, and put in each ^ oz. of isinglass. Your mould being placed in ice pour into it the white blanc mange to tlu-ee quarters of an inch in depth. As soon as that is set pour in an equal quantity of the other, which ought to be of a clear yellow. When that also is set pour in some white, and so on alternately till the mould is full. CEDRAT CONSERVE (1). Prepare i lb. of sugar to the ninth degree ; put about 1 oz. of grated cedrat to it, and mix them. When the sugar is half cold add a little lemon-juice, mix them well with a wooden spoon, warm the whole for a moment, and pour it into paper cases aiad©