OAL [ SU ] and an egg; fry this in little cakes of a fine gold colour. Dip some oysters into the yolk of an egg, and fry the same way; also some good force- meat balls, and garnish the dish with them. CALF'S HEAD (Roasted). Cleanse the head well; bone and dry it. Make a seasoning of pepper, salt, beaten mace, nutmeg, cloves, and some fat bacon, cut very small and grated; strew it over the head; roll it up, skewer, and tie it with tape. Roast, and baste it with butter. Make a rich veal gravy, thickened with butter rolled in flour. You may add mushrooms and oysters. Serve the head with this sauce. CALF'S HEAD (Roasted with Oystees). Prepare a head as for boiling; take out the tongue and brains, and parboil them; blanch the tongue, and mince both with a little sage, beef suet, or marrow, a few oysters, 4 or 5 egg yolks beaten, salt, pepper, ginger, nutmeg, and grated bread. Parboil and dry the head, fill the scull and mouth with the above ingredients and oysters, tie it up, and roast it. Preserve its gravy, and put it, with some white wine, nutmeg, oysters, and sweet herbs minced, over a chafing- dish. Add butter, lemon-juice, and salt, and beat it up thick. Dish the head, and serve it with the sauce over it. CALF'S HEAD (Russian). Simmer it in sugar and water till the bones come out; keep the cheeks whole, and cut the remainder in pieces; put it, all but the cheeks, again into the stock; stew till it becomes a jelly. When there is just time to cook raisins put them in whole, nicely cleaned and rubbed in a cloth. Vinegar and more sugar, if necessary, are added to give it an agreeable taste. The tongue and brains are served up separately with a little of the gravy, thickened and seasoned with port wine and a very little whole pepper. CALF'S HEAD (Soused). Scald and bone a calf's head, and soak it for seven or eight hours, draining the water twice; dry it well. Season with salt and bruised garlic ; roll it up, bind it very tight, and boil it in white wine, salt, and water. When done put it with the liquor in a pan, and keep it for use. Serve up either whole or in slices, with oil, vinegar, and pepper. CALF'S HEAD (Stewed). Wash a calf's head perfectly clean for an hour in water, and then bone it with the greatest care. Take out the tongue and eyes; chop up 2 lbs. of veal and the same of beef suet, with thyme, lemon- peel, and 2 anchovies, and a nutmeg and 2 stale rolls grated. Mix these together with the yolks of 4 eggs, I pint of fresh mushrooms, the yolks of 6 eggs chopped fine, and i pint of stewed oysters; put this forcemeat into the head close, and tie it up tight. Put it into a stewpan with 9 quarts of gravy and a little mace; cover the pan close, <Mid let it stew for two hours. In the meantime beat up the brains with shred parsley, lemon-peel half a grated nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg; fry half these in little cakes with the forcemeat balls, and keep them hot. Strain the gravy the head was boiled in, and boil in it ^oz. of truf- fles and morels, and a few mushrooms. Add the remainder of the brains, stew all together for a minute or two; then pour it over the head, and lay the fried brains and forcemeat balls round ; fry a few oysters, and place them on the head. Garnish with lemon. CALF'S HEAD (Stuffed). Bone a calf's head with great care; let the eyes remain in their proper places ; soak it, and then having blanched it, lay it in cold water; dry and singe it. Make some godiveau, and when about three parts done put in 2 spoonsful of reduced veloute, and rather more spice, shred parsley, and shallots than usual. Fill the head with this, and press it into its original form; sew it up, and rub it all over with lemon. Take a clean, fine cloth, spread thin slices of bacon over it, lay the head in them, wrap the cloth round, and tie it up tight. Put it into a brais- ing-pan, take a bit of butter, some grated bacon, 4 carrots, 5 onions, 3 cloves, 3 bay leaves, a little thyme, 2 sliced lemons, leaving out the seeds and the white. Set these over the fire, and when they become dry moisten them with 2 bottles of white wine. Add salt and pepper. Boil this sauce, and put it into the braising-pan with the head, winch should simmer three hours, with the fire above and below. At the end of that time feel the head with your finger, and if it be still firm, let it remain some time longer. W^hen sufficiently done take it out by the ends of the cloth, untie, and let it drain. Dish it, and pour on it the following ragout:—Put 4 ladles- ful of grande Esjiagnole, a bottle of white wine, and 2 ladlesful of consomme into a saucepan, and reduce it to half; then strain it into another sauce- pan, in which are some balls of godiveau, arti- chokes cooked as ablanc, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut in pieces, and crayfish. Keep this hot until the head should be sent to table, when the ragout must be poured over it. CALF'S HEAD (Surprise). Raise the skin, and as much meat as you can, from half a calf's head; make a forcemeat as follows:—Beat up in a mortar ^ lb. of veal, 1 lb. of beef suet, i lb. of fat bacon, the crumb of a small loaf, sweet herbs, shredded parsley, cloves, nutmeg, mace, salt, and Cayenne pepper. Bind these to- gether with the yolks of 4 eggs; stuff the skin with this, so that it may appear as if the bones were in; tie and skewer it tight, and put it into a deep pan, with 2 quarts of water, i pint of white wine, a little mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 anchovy, 2 spoonsful of walnut and mushroom catsup, the same of lemon pickle.