BLA [ 121 ] CLA a flavour, but no more. The next day take the leaf of the hog and cut it into dice; scrape and wash the skins very clean, then tie one end and begin to fill them. Mix in the fat as you fill them, and be sure to put in a good deal of fat. Fill the skins three parts full, tie the other end, and make your puddings any length you please. Prick them with a pin, and put them into a kettle of boiling water. Boil them very softly an hour, then take them out and lay them on clean straw. In Scotland people make their puddings with the blood of a goose, chopping off the head and saving the blood. They stir it well till it is cold, and then mix it with grits, spice, salt, and sweet herbs, according to their fancy, and some chopped beef suet. They take the skin off the neck, then pull out the windpipe and fat, fill the skin, tie it at both ends, and so make a pie of the giblets, and lay the pudding in the middle. BLACK, REVIVER OF. Boil 8ozs. of log- wood chips, and J oz. of green copperas (sulphate of iron) in 3 pints of water until only 1 quart remains. When cold strain the liquor, and add to it 2 ozs., by measure, of gin. Mix, and apply it to any black woollen cloth that has become faded or rusty. Appty it by means of a tooth-brush. When dry brush the cloth with a soft brush. BLACK SILK AND LACE: To Renovate. To do this effectually and uniformly the seams and other sewn parts must be ripped asunder. To a pint of boiling water add two-thirds of a pint of ox-gall; with a clean sponge dipped in this mixture rub the silk on both sides; press it between the hands to squeeze out the super- fluous water. Rinse in river water until the immersion of the silk no longer stains the water; press it again as before directed, and dry it on a clothes-horse, or oh a line, in the open air. Sponge it slightly on the wrong side with a very thin solution of isinglass, and brush it on the right side with a very soft brush, which must be used all the time in the same dii*ection, that is, the selvage-way of the silk. If the colour of the silk has become reddened or dull it must be revived. In order to effect this, after having cleansed the silk with ox-gall and rinsed it in pure water, as has been described, plunge it in river water in which four or five drops of sul- phuric acid have been mixed, so that it may be slightly aciJ, but not too much so, or the silk will be burnt. Move the silk about in the water with the hands during five minutes, then rinse it carefully in a larger quantity of pure water, and finish as before directed. But if the colour be too much gone for this process to be success- ful, the article must be re-dyed. The operation is so simple that any one may easily execute it. Supposing a dress to be the article in question: put into a small saucepan enough water to cover the dress; boil in this water, during half an hour, five or six small bits of logwood, shred into thin slices, and put in a muslin bag. Keep the dress in this water during another half hour, allowing it just to simmer slightly; then hang the pieces of the dress up to drain into the saucepan. Into the liquid thus obtained throw about two tea- spoonsful of sulphate of iron and green copperas in powder. When these substances are melted add water until there is as much liquid in the saucepan as at the commencement of the opera- tion. Place the dress in this, and suffer it to boil very gently for half an hour, stirring it now and then with a stick. Rinse and give the stiffness and gloss. Cleaning black lace veils and black lace. These articles should be gently washed in warm water, in which ox-gall has been mixed ; they are then to be rinsed in cold water until the smell of the ox-gall has disappeared. The water is to be pressed from them (not tcrung), and then they require stiffening. For this purpose a little isinglass must be dissolved in boiling water; into this the veil must be dipped, and then well pressed between the hands. These articles should not be ironed, but gently pulled into the proper form, and then pinned to a table, covered with linen (firmly secured) until dry. Care must be taken to place the pins not farther than half an inch apart. Lace should be pinned carefully at both edges, and square articles at all four sides. Some recommend mangling or pressing in a linen press after the laces are dry and unpinned. BLACKBERRY WINE. This is made of the wild bramble or blackberry. Put fully ripe blackberries into a large vessel with a tap to it; pour on as much boiling water as will cover them, and, as soon as the heat will permit, bruise them well with the hand till all the berries are broken; cover them, and in about three or four days, when the berries rise to the top, draw off the clear part into another vessel; add to every 10 quarts of the liquor 1 lb. of sugar; stir it well in, and let it stand a w-eek or ten days to work. Draw it off through a jelly-bag. Steep 4 ozs. of isinglass in 1 pint of sweet wine for twelve hours ; then boil it slowly till dissolved ; put it into 1 gallon of the blackberry-juice ; boil them, and put all together. Let it stand a few days, and bottle. BLACKING BALLS. See Balls. BLACKING, LADIES'. This article is generally sold in single jars atone shilling each, the quality being unobjectionable ; but it can be made equally good, and at a much less expense, as follows:—Take 4 ozs. of glue, 1 oz. of logwood raspings in a muslin bag, 1 oz. of soft-soap, ^ oz. of isinglcss, and 1 drachm of indigo. Boil these slowly in a quart of vinegar until the quantity is