FAS [ 485 ] FAT principle which keeps together a flock of sheep, and induces them heedlessly to follow their leaders, even to their own destruction. When near the entrance of the slaughter-houses the poor animals instinctively shrink back, and re- fuse to enter; but if the butcher drags one in by main force all the rest immediately follow. So powerful is the force of fashion in leading into habits, which the victims are fully aware can terminate only in the ruin of their fortunes and the loss of their characters. Opinion, too, is equally under the sway of this arbitrary power. There is hardly anything of a public or a domestic nature that escapes it. Fashion more frequently than good sense makes us pronounce judgment on the conduct of our governors and legislators, on our clergy and moralists. It regulates our table, frequently at the expense of prudence, and even fills our nursery with systems which, with our judgments unbiassed, we should discard as unnatural and injurious. The most absurd fashions have occasionally prevailed; deformities of which nature was never guilty have been esteemed elegancies in shape ; and even diseases have had their seasons of admiration as characteristics of fashion ! Sparkling eyes, that might have vied •with the eagle in strength of vision, have been seen straining through a glass, and limbs agile and strong have appeared feeble and decrepit by the irresistible mandate of fashion! Let any woman possessing the needful qualifications for leading the ton—beauty, rank, and fortune— decorate her person in the most preposterous and unbecoming mode which she can devise, she will still have imitators amidst the throng of inferior beauties, emulous to vie with her in absurdity. Conform in those things which are unimportant, and to deviate from which might give you the epithet of peculiar, but have your judgment in your own keeping, and think for yourself. Thus will you avoid inconsistency and errors which may not be easily retrieved ; thus, also, will you exercise and strengthen the best powers of your mind, and prepare yourself for the discharge of those important duties by which you will find yourself surrounded as you proceed on the journey of life. There is even a fashion in diseases, and it so happens that they are always such as the patient considers interesting. Prominent among these is an extreme sensibility to every change of the atmosphere, or rather, a constantly sensible re- lation to its influence. We are not only more subject to be affected with every current of air, every change of heat and cold, but the feelings of some are so exquisitely delicate that in a close apartment, nay, even in bed, they can determine with accuracy the state of the weather, as well as the direction of the wind. By consulting their sensations these living barometers announce more correctly than the artificial ones not only the present, but even the future changes of the weather. We could never have believed that this additional sense, which is only of modern origin, could have been so much improved, had we not frequently witnessed the sensations of certain patients when a cloud is floating over their heads. A talent so peculiar to our age would undoubtedly excite the surprise, but not the envy of our less refined forefathers. In a climate where the weather changes every day, and almost every hour, it may be easily imagined how dependent, frail, and transitory must be the health of the wretched possessors of this new sense, and that beings so organised cannot warrant for a single hour their state of health, their good humour, or their physical existence. Is it not, then, very probable that many strange and incon- sistent events of the times may have their secret foundation in this dependence on the weather ? In judging of man and his actions we ought first to observe the state of the barometer, as our more superstitious ancestors made the celestial constellations the criterion in their prognostics. Not less characteristic of the present genera- tion, but more painful, are the fashionable nervous and hypochondriacal diseases. These are formidable, insidious tormentors, which not only destroy our physical well-being, but also discompose our tranquillity and contentment, and cloud our fairest prospects of happiness. Without depriving us of life they render it an insupportable burden; without inducing death they make him a welcome visitor. It is unnecessary to detail the diversified shapes in which these maladies present them- selves. Let it suffice to observe that, however intimately the mind appears to be connected with these phenomena, we can nevertheless ao count for them from physical causes. FASTING. See Abstinence. FAT FOR FRYING. The best fat for frying is that supplied by beef kidneys finely chopped and melted, and improved by boiling and clarifying it; put it on the fire in a pot, let il boil, skim it, and draw it off' clear. This fat is preferable to hogs' lard, which is apt to soften the paste, to swell, to froth, and boil it over int> the fire, which renders it very dangerous. Oil also possesses the latter defect, but it does not soften the paste. Melted butter has also the same inconvenience, besides that of being un- economical. When you wish to make a fry warm some fat in the frying-pan, wet your finger, and shake it over the fry : if it crackles and rejects the water it is at the proper heat.