BLO [ 131 ] BLO of tartai", 3 draclmis ; purified nitre, 2 drachms. Make 4 powders: 1 to be taken every fourth hour. If the patient be hot or feverish, bleed- ing and small doses of nitre will be of use; 1 scruple or ^ drachm of nitre may be taken in a cup of his ordinar3' drink twice or thrice a day. His drink may likewise be sharpened with acids, as juice of lemon, or a few drops of sul- phuric acid, sufficiently diluted with water; or he may take frequently a cup of the tincture of roses. Bathing the feet and legs in lukewarm water has likewise a very good effect in this disease. Opiates, too, are sometimes bene- ficial, but these must be administered with caution. Ten or twelve drops of laudanum may be given in a cup of barley-water twice a day, and continued for some time, provided they be found beneficial. The conserve of roses is likewise a very good medicine in this case, provided it be taken in sufficient quantity, aud persisted in long enough. It may be taken to the quantity of 3 ozs. or 4 ozs. a day; and, if the patient be troubled with a cough, it should be made into an electuary with balsamic syrup and a little of the syrup of poppies, or a bolus may be given in this form :—Take powdered alum, 3 grains; extract of catechu, 10 grains; conserve of roses, sufficient to make a bolus. To be taken every four hours, washing it down with 3 table-spoonsful of the infusion of roses. If stronger astringents be necessary, 15 or '40 drops of sulphuric acid may be given in a glass of water three or four times a day. Those who are suliject to frequent returns of this disease should avoid all excess. Their diet should be light and cool, consisting chiefly of milk and vegetables. Above all, let them beware of vigorous efforts of the body and violent agita- tions of the mind. Dr. Rush, of Philadelphia, has published some interesting facts concerning the utility of com- mon salt in curing haemorrhage fi'om the lungs. As this remedy may be obtained everywhere without difficulty its effects ought to be gene- rally known. The following are the doctor's own words :—" The mode of giving it is to pour down from a tea to a table-spoonful of clean, fine salt as soon as possible after the haemorrhage begins from the lungs. This quantity generally stops it; but the dose must be repeated daily for three or four days, to prevent a return of the disorder. If the bleeding continues, the salt must be continued till it is checked, but in larger doses. I have heard of several instances in which two table-spoonsful were taken at one time for several days. It sometimes excites a sickness at the stomach, and never fails to pro- duce a burning sensation in the throat in its passage into the stomach and considerable thirst afterwards." BLOOD, VOMITING OF, or H^imatenests. This is a discharge of dark-coloured, clotted blood from the stomach, in greater or less quan- tity, mixed with alimentary matter, preceded by a sense of weight and dull pain or anxiety in the I'egion of the stomach. The causes giving rise to it are, a plethoric habit, sup})ression of evacuations, blows, bruises, &c. It seldom proves fatal from the loss of blood, but often occasions considerable weakness. It is also a frequent consequence of some other disease, and the success of the treatment here will de- pend on the probability of that disease being cured. When vomiting of blood is accompanied with symptoms which indicate an inflammatory disposition, general bleeding, spare diet, and sedative remedies, should be resorted to. If it depend on other causes, tonic and astringent remedies, with sulphuric acid and opium; for instance, take infusion of roses, 13 drachms; diluted sulphuric acid, 10 drops ; syrup of roses, 1 drachm; tincture of opium, 10 drops. Make a draught: to be taken every two hours. Or, take purified alum, 2 scruples ; infusion of roses, 6ozs.; diluted sulphuric acid, ^drachm; tincture of opium, 40 drops : of which take 2 large table- spoonsful every second or third hour. When the discharge has ceased, infusion of roses, with diluted sulphuric acid, should be taken every four or six hours, and the bowels kept open with proper doses of Epsom salts in the infusion of rose water or alum, 10 grains, every four hours. In severe attacks the application of a blister to the region of the stomach is often attended with the best effects. BLOOM, ALMOND. This cosmetic is made as follows :—Brazil chips, 1 oz., boiled in 3 pints of water for a quarter of an hour; strain through fine muslin, and add borax, ^ oz.; alum, 1 oz.; powdered cochineal, \ oz.; and isinglass, f oz. Boil until all are dissolved, except the skins of the cochineal, which will be in about five minutes. Strain again. BLOOM OF ROSES. This cosmetic is pre- pared by dissolving carmine in liquor ammonioe, and adding rose water and spirit of wine as much as is required to soften to the desired tint. BLOTCHES ON THE FACE. 6Ve Borax. BLOWING MEAT. Butchers have a very pernicious custom of blowing meat to deceive the buyer. The sudden tainting of veal and lamb, in particular, may, in some degree, be at- tributed to this cause. It is also a common practice to blow poultry and all sorts of fish, except those of the shell kind. The method of blowing fish, especially cod and whiting, is by placing the end of a quill or a tobacco-pipe at the vent and in a hole made with a pin under the fin which is next the gill; consequently the fish appears large aud full, but when dressed