CHO [ 30!2 J CHO cinnamon, some sugar, a little salt, aud some rasped green lemon-peel; let them be a little time over the fire, after which put in a little preserved lemon-peel cut small, and, having tasted whether it has a fine flavour, let it cool. When cold mix this with the reserved whites of eggs, and beat up to a froth. When you use it put it into patty pans, and put either puff or tart paste over them. Ice, and bake in a moderate oven. CHOCOLATE WINE. Take 1 pint of sherry, or 1^ pint of port, 4J ozs. of chocolate, 6 ozs. of fine sugar, and ^ oz. of white starch or fine flour; mix, dissolve, and boil all these together for about ten or twelve minutes; but if jour chocolate is made with sugar take double the quantity of chocolate and half the quantity of sugar. CHOLERA MORBUS. This is a violent purging and vomiting of bilious matter, attended with gripes, sickness, and a constant desire to go to stool. It comes on suddenly, and is most common in autumn. There is hardly any dis- ease that kills more quickly than this when proper means are not used in due time for removing it. In warm climates it is met with at all seasons of the year, and its occurrences are very fre- quent ; but in England and other cold climates it is apt to prevail most during the autumnal months, when there is excessive heat, or sudden transitions from heat to cold ; and the violence of the disease has usually been observed to be greater in proportion to the intenseness of the heat—circumstances which induce the belief that cholera morbus is the effect of a warm atmosphere producing some change in the state of the bile, which may consist either in the matter of the bile being rendered more acrid, or its secretion being preternaturally increased. In some instances the disease has been observed to proceed from an obstructed perspiration, and food that passes readily into the acetous fer- mentation, &c., though these causes might not give rise to it without the predisposition acquired by preceding great heat, succeeded by sudden transitions of cold, particularly in the evenings. It is occasioned by a redundancy and putrid acrimony of the bile; food that easily turns rancid or sour on the stomach, as butter, bacon, sweetmeats, cucumbers, melons, cherries, and other cold, unripe fruits. It is sometimes the effect of sti'ong acrid purges or vomits, or of poisonous substances taken into the stomach. It may likewise proceed from violent passions or affections of the mind, as fear, anger, &c. It is generally preceded by heartburn, sour eructations, and flatulencies, with pain of the stomach and intestines. To these succeed uausea, excessive vomiting, and purging of green, yellow, or blackish-coloured bile, witb distention of the stomach and violent griping pains. There is likewise a great thirst, with a very quick and unequal pulse, and often a fixed acute pain about the region of the navel. As the disease advances the pulse often sinks so low as to become quite imperceptible; the ex- tremities grow cold or cramped, and are often covered with a clammy sweat; the urine is obstructed, and there is a palpitation of the heart. Violent hiccuping, fainting, and con- vulsions are the signs of approaching death. At the beginning of this disease the eflbrts of nature to expel the offending cause should be assisted by promoting the purging and vomiting. For this purpose the patient must drink freely of diluting liquors, as whey, butter milk, warm water, thin water-gi'uel, barley water, linseed tea, or, what is perhaps preferable to any of them, very weak chicken broth. This should not only be drunk plentifully to pi'omote the vomiting, but a clyster of it given every hour in order to promote the purging. In addition to these means flannel cloths wrung out in a warm decoction of poppy-heads slightly bruised, with the addition of about one-fourth of the spirit of camphor, may be applied to the region of the stomach, renewing them as often as they become cold, or opium in the form of an external embrocation. Take spirit of cam- phor, I oz.; tincture of opium, 1 oz. Make an embrocation, to be frequently rubbed over the seat of the stomach. After these evacuations have been continued for some time a decoction of toasted oat bread may be drunk to stop the vomiting. The bread should be toasted till it is of a brown colour, and afterwards boiled in spring water. If oat bread cannot be had, wheat bread, or oatmeal well toasted, may be used in its stead. If this does not put a stop to the vomiting, 2 table- spoonsful of the saline julep, with 10 drops oi laudanum, may be taken every hour till it ceases. The vomiting and purging, however, ought never to be stopped too soon. As long as these discharges do not weaken the patient they are salutary, and may be allowed to go on, or rather, ought to be promoted. But when the patient is weakened by the evacuations, which may be known from the sinking of his pulse, &c., re^ course must immediately be had to opiates, as recommended above, to which may be added strong wines, with spirituous cinnamon waters and other generous cordials, or large doses of diluted sulphuric acid, which is said to abate the irritation of the stomach more readily than even opium. Warm negus, or strong wine whey, will likewise be necessary to support the patient's spirits and promote the perspiration.