[ 833 ] C OF C 01 cofFee into a preserving pan, and add to it a sufficient quantity of powder sugar to make it thick; put it on a moderate fire, stirring it con- stantly. The moment it begins to bubble take it off, and add 2 spoonsful of powder sugar; stir it with a silver spoon, scraping the sugar from the sides of the pan. As it cools it will thicken and become darker; dry it in a stove, and then pass it through a fine sieve. COFFEE SYRUP. Take 9 lbs. of ground coffee, and infuse one of the pounds in 2 pints of water; let it stand to settle, and when clear pour it off; then with this liquor infuse the other pound of coffee. Boil i lb. of sugar to caramel, colouring it a deep red; then put it into the coffee to dissolve, and pour it into a pipkin, with another ^ lb. of sugar ; carefully close the lid of the pipkin, and let it simmer for eight or nine hours ; then strain it, and when cold put it into bottles, cork and seal them, and keep them in a cool place. When it is wanted for use put some of the syrup into a cup, adding •warm water according to the strength you wish to drink your coffee. The syrup of coffee is most useful in travel- ling, when there is not time or convenience for making coffee in the usual manner. It is the essence of coffee sold by grocers. COFFEE TART. Mix a little flour and cream with 1 or 2 cups of good clear coffee, a bit of sugar, and 3 eggs; boil it about half an hour, stirring it continually for fear it should catch at the bottom; put it into the paste, with ■whites of eggs beaten and frothed upon it, with- out a top crust. COFFEE WAFERS. To a common table- spoonful of ground coffee put | lb. of powder sugar and \ lb. of fine flour; mix them well together with as much cream as will make the paste or batter pour out pretty thickly from the spoon. The paste being prepared, warm the wafer iron on both sides, and rub it over with some butter tied in a linen bag, or a bit of virgin wax ; pour in a spoonful of the batter, and bake it over a smart fire, turning the iron once or twice until the wafer is done on both sides of a fine brown colour. If you would have them twisted put them upon a mould ready at hand for that purpose ; put it up directly as you take it out, and press it to the shape of whatever form you please, and so continue. Always keep them in a warm place. COIN, CURRENT. We copy from the " Penny Cyclopasdia" the following alpha- betically arranged list of coin now current in various countries :— Abassi or Abassee, a Persian coin of the value of 5|d. Abiiguelp or Albuguelp. See Onscio. Albert's Dollar is a coin known in Holland, with its half and quarter, at 50, 35, and 12^ stivers. The term is used also as a money of account at Libau and Riga. The intrinsic value of a metallic Albert's dollar is 4s. Hd. Albus, a small coin and money of account at Cassel, Cologne, and other places in Germany. The value of the albus was less than | d. Altmichlic, a Turkish silver coin of 60 paras, value 3s. Asper, a very small Turkish coin and money of account: 120 aspers = 1 piastre. August d'Or, a gold coin of Saxony, double, single, and half; reckoned at 10, 5, and 2^ rix- doUars. The august of 1754 was worth 16s. 2d.; that of 1784, 16s. Sfd. iJa^atf two, a Venetian copper coin, a half-soldo. Bajoccho or Soldo, a copper coin at Rome, Bologna, &c., divided into 12 denarii, or 5 quat- trini. Worth a trifle more than a ^d. There are also double and single bajocchelli at 4 and 2 bajocchi. Bajoire, a silver coin of Switzerland of 3 livres 15 sols current. Barbone, a silver coin in Lucca of 12 soldi, half and quarter in proportion. The barbone is worth rather more than 4d. Basarucco, a small tin coin current at G oa on the Malabar coast. These are called bad basa- ruccos. There are others called good ones of copper. All the coins of Goa are of the same two descriptions and denominations. Batzen, a base silver coin in Switzerland, and also in some parts of Germany, as at Augsburg. At Basle a good batzen is 4 creutzers ; a Swiss batzen, 2 sous, or 3* creutzers. Each batzen contains 10 rappen. Silver pieces of 40 and 20 batzen, and base silver pieces of 10 and 5 batzen, were published under the Helvetic republic be- tween 1798 and 1803. The Swiss batzen is nearly l^d. English. Bendiky, a gold coin of Marocco of the value of 9s. Beslich, a Turkish silver coin, worth about 3s 2id- Bit or Bitt, a small coin in the West Indies, worth 5|^d. Blaffert, a small coin at Cologne, worth 4 albuses. Blankeel or Blanquello, a small coin and money of account in Marocco. It is worth about Id. Bolognino, a copper coin at Bologna and its neighbourhood, the same with the bajoccho, Borbi or Burbi, a coin in Egypt of copper, 8 of which go to a medino. Borbies are also current at Tunis. Borjookes, the name for the glass beads which pass as small money in Abyssinia. CagHareso, a copper coin in Sardinia. Cahaun. See Cowries.