[ 122 ] BLA BLA reduced to a pint. Remove the bag, and it is then ready for use, and should be applied to the leather (which has been previously cleaned from dirt and dust) with a bit of sponge. The effect is a complete jet, which will not stain linen, and the process may be performed without the incum- brance of blacking-brushes, &c. Half an ounce of sulphate of iron would be an improvement. BLACKING, LIQUID (1). Take i gallon of stale beer, i lb. of ivory-black, 3 ozs. of treacle, ^ oz. of gum arable, 1 oz. of sweet oil, 1 oz. of brown sugar-candy, and ^ oz. of sulphuric acid. Mix up the oil with the ivory-black and treacle ; warm the beer, in which dissolve the gum and sugar-candy; slir up all together, and finally pour in by degrees the sulphuric acid, which will produce a fermentation, and cause an amalgama- tion of the whole. It will be fit for use in a few hours, and should be stirred when used. Be careful of your eyes when pouring in the sul- phuric acid. A cheaper blacking may be made by omitting the sugar-candy and gum arabic. BLACKING, LIQUID (2). Take 2 lbs. of ivoi'y-black, 2 lbs. of treacle, and lib. of sweet oil. Rub these well together, then add | lb. of oil of vitriol, and as much beer bottoms or stale beer as will dilute it to a proper consistency. Black Japan for Leather. Mix 1 gallon of boiled oil, 1 lb. of lampblack, 5 ozs. of burnt umber, and 5 ozs. of asphaltum. Make it of the required consistency with spirits of turpentine. BLACKING PASTE. Ivory-black, 4 parts ; treacle, 3 parts ; oil of vitriol, 2 parts; and sweet oil, 1 part. Mix well together, and keep in pots. BLACK-LEAD. It will surprise some of our readers to learn for certain that thei'e is no lead in this. It is, in fact, almost a pure char- coal, or carbon, the very minute proportions of iron and earth found in it being merely trifling impurities. It is known also by the less mis- leading names of plumbayo and graphite. The best in quality, used for making drawing pencils, is found at Keswick, in Cumberland, and the coarser kinds are employed for making crucibles, being indestructible by heat if the atmospheric air is excluded. It is a most efficient protector of iron from rust, and on this account is used in making various compounds, such as anti- attrition and pastes for putting over the surface of ornamental ironwork. Its employment by housemaids for this purpose entitles it to our notice, and the following directions for using it are excellent:—Mix the black-lead powder with dreg or lees of port wine ; if you have none use a little ale or gin, and paint the stove or grate mth the mixture, using for this purpose a bit of linen rag. Then take a clean, dry, and close brush, though not too hard; dip it in dry powder of black-lead, and rub it on the painted parts until tbey are of a beautiful brightness. BLADDER. It is a curious fact that bladder fastened over the mouth of a bottle of wine will allow its watery portion to pass through, but not its spirituous portion, so that the wine di- minishes in quantity, but increases in strength. Bladder also excludes air and moisture from entering into a vessel over the mouth of which it is fastened. Bladders for such purposes require to be thus prepared :—Soak them for twenty-four hours in water, of which each quart has dissolved in it \ oz. of bleaching powder (chloride of lime). Scrape off all the fatty and membraneous parts; then wash the bladders two ,or three times in fresh quantities of clean water; blow them out and I'oU them, pressing them hard, and re-blowing them as they stretch. They thus increase very much in size; then hang them up in a dry place. BLANC (1). A mixture of butter, salt, water, and a slice of lemon. Another blanc is as fol- lows :—Take 1 lb. of beef suet, cut into dice; 1 lb. of fat bacon, also cut into dice; ^ lb. of butter, the juice of a lemon, salt and pepper, X or 2 onions, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, a bay leaf, and spice. BLANC (2). Take i lb. of beef fat, i lb. of bacon, \ lb. of fresh butter, 2 carrots, 2 onions cut in half, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few bay leaves, the juice of a lemon, some salt, whole pepper, and 2 glasses of stock. Boil the whole for some time, and it will then be fit for use. BLANC (3). Put 1 lb. of grated bacon, 1 lb. of fat, ^ lb. of butter, 2 lemons, cut in slices and the white taken out, 2 bay leaves, 2 cloves, 4 carrots, cut into dice, 4 onions, and a very small quantity of water, into a saucepan, and boil the whole till it is reduced. You must take care to keep stirring, to prevent your blanc from catching. When all the moisture is sucked up, and all the fat is melted, moisten it with water ; add some clarified salt; let it boil, and strain it. It is then ready for use. BLANCH. To put anything in boiling water for a short time, in some cases letting the water boil up once or twice, is called blanching. BLANC-MANGE (1). To 1 oz. of picked isinglass, with a bit of cinnamon, put 1 pint of water ; boil them till the isinglass is melted ; put to it f pint of cream, 2 ozs. of sweet almonds, 6 bitter ones, blanched and beaten, and a bit of lemon-peel. Sweeten it; stir it over the fire; let it boil; strain, and let it cool; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and put into moulds. Garnish to your fancy. Blanc-mange may be coloured green by adding spinach-juice; or red, by a bit of cochineal in brandy, letting it stand half an hour, and straining it; and yellow, with saffron. BLANC-MANGE (2). Boil for a few minutes 1^ pint of new milk with 1 oz. of picked isin-