[ 74 ] BAT BAT The principal springs of the Bath waters are three, and arise within a short distance of each other, near the river Avon. The King's and Queen's Baths are supplied by the same spring; but the Hot Bath and the Cross Bath by sepa- rate springs. " The temperature of the King's Bath water, as drawn at the pump, is 114° Fahr.; that of the Hot Bath in Hetling Court is 116°; and that of the water of the Cross Bath pump is 107°." These higli temperatures they, however, lose in flowing into their spacious baths. Thus " the water at the edge of the King's Bath is about 98°; over the spring it is above 100°; and as the King's and Queen's Baths are a continuation of the same water, part of the Queen's Bath is about 98°, lessening in its temperature as it recedes from the spring. The temperature of the Hot Bath is above 100°, and of the Cross Bath from 92° to 96°." The specific gravity of the King's and Hot Baths is 1-0020, and the Cross Bath 1-0018. The waters in the three baths differ slightly in chemical composition. Dr. Falconer has estimated that the solid residuum from a gallon of each water is in the proportion of 71 grains in that of the King's Bath, 78 grains in that of the Hot Bath, and 86 grains in the Cross Bath. Of 80 grains of each residuum the saline part, soluble in water, was 31 grains in the first, 29 in the second, and only 11 in the third. This latter, therefore, contains much more insoluble matter; and as this residuum does not effervesce very strongly with nitrous acid, it is probably chiefly sulphate of lime. The depth of the colour produced with tincture of galls was the greatest in the first-mentioned water, less in the second, and least of all in the third. The degree of precipitation with lime- water followed the same order. Hence we may conclude that the King's Bath water is the strongest chalybeate, that it contains the most carbonic acid and active neutral salts, and the least of the selenite and other earthy residuum. The Hot Bath water is a very little weaker as a chalybeate, as well as in gaseous and saline contents, but yields more earthy residuum. The Cross Bath water is still less gaseous, chaly- beate, and saline, but much more earthy. These waters have been the subject of various other chemical investigations at different times. From the analysis by Mr. Phillips it appears that the gaseous fluid that arises with the waters, and is separated in bubbles over the spring, consists of:— Grains Carbonic acid gas ........ 5 Nitrogen gas 95 100 Dr. Gibbes suspects that oxygen gas forms a small part of the composition from some dim- inution of bulk in the fluids, and the evident discoloration which takes place on the addition of nitrous gas. One quart of the water, Mr. Phillips says, contains :— Cubic Inches Carbonic acid . . « 2'4 Grains Sulphate of lime 18* Muriate of soda 6'6 Sulphate of soda 3 0 Carbonate of lime 1-6 Silica -4 Oxide of iron -00394 29'60394 Loss .... -39606 30- The result of the experiments of Dr. Wilkin- son on the Bath waters is, that in 400 grains of the gross residuum from the water of the Kings- ton Bath there exists :—- Graine Sulphate of lime ....... 231 Muriate of soda 84 Sulphate of soda 45 Carbonate of lime 22 Oxy-carbonate of iron 6-6 Silex 5 Variable quantity, vegetable extract . 2-5 3-95-1 Loss ..... 4'9 400 And that in the same quantity of solid contents of the other springs, called the Hot Bath, the King's Bath, and the Cross Bath, the two former evinced the same proportions with the Kingston water, but that the Cross Bath water afforded a much larger proportion of a calcareous salt than of the alkaline salts. From the numerous chemical investigations, therefore, of these waters that have been made, the following general conclusion may be formed of their composition:—That they hold in solii- tion but little neutral salts with an alkaline base, and therefore are scarcely saline ; that they are, in a very slight degree, impregnated with carbonic acid; in a still slighter degree with iron, and, as it seems, only when hot from the spring; and that they contain a good deal of calcareous salts, and a little silicious earth, which renders them hard, and unfit for domestic pur- poses. Notwithstanding they possess very great medical powers, to whatever cause attributable. When drunk fresh from the springs they have, in most persons, the effect of raising and rather accelerating the pulse, increasing the heat, and exciting the secretions. These symp- toms take place in a few minutes after drinking them, and, in certain habits, will continue for a considerable time. They are thus a stimulant of a diffusible nature, acting more immediately