BIS C 116 ] BIS tion; mix these well togetlier, and make them into a soft paste ; add a little soft yeast or not. Lay this paste on paper, or in crusts about 2 inches broad and 4 inches long ; set them in a moderate oven, and when they begin to tui'n brown take them out, and lay them on paper in a diy place. BISCUITS, SAVOY (1). Whip 12 whites of eggs to a snow ; beat the yolks with IJlb. of powder sugar; mix them together, with f lb. of flour and the grated rind of a lemon, into a paste; rub your mould with melted butter, and bake. BISCUITS, SAVOY (2). Beat up 12 eggs, leaving out half the whites, with a small whisk. Put thereto while whisking 2 or 3 spoonsful of rose or orange-flower water, with 1 lb. of double- refined sifted sugar. When the whole is like cream, take 1 lb. and 2 ozs. of dry flour, and mix it in with a wooden spoon. Form the batter into long cakes, sift sugar over them, and put them into a moderate oven to avoid scorching. A common sort is made by putting in all the eggs, and leaving out the rose or orange-flower water. BISCUITS, SAVOY (with Almonds). The ingredients for this biscuit are the same as the above, with the addition of 4 eggs and ^ lb. of bitter almonds. Blanch the almonds; then wash, drain, and dry them in a napkin ; pound them with whites of eggs in the usual way to a fine paste, pass it through a sieve, and then mix it with the additional eggs; add this to the sugar and yolks, and proceed as above. BISCUITS, SAVOY (Cold). Take a little more of very fine dry flour, 1 lb. of very dry pounded sugar, and 14 eggs; rasp the peel of 2 lemons or oranges on the sugar, which put to the yolks of the eggs, and work them together with two wooden spoons. Whip the whites m a separate vessel, with a small pinch of calcined alum to prevent their turning. When very firm take half to mix with the yolks; then mix the whole, and sift the flour over it, heating all together gently with a whip. Prepare a mould as above, and put the biscuit in a little at a time to prevent bladders at the top; put some ashes on a baking dish, and put the mould over this in a moderate oven. One hour is sufficient. The same paste may be put into paper cases. Throw custard sugar over it before baking. BISCUITS, SAVOY (Hot). Break 12 eggs into a vessel over another containing water nearly boiling; beat them up in it with 1 lb. of fine-sifted sugar. When the eggs are no longer soft put J lb. of flour mto a silk sieve, mix the flour well with the eggs by shaking the sieve, then add 2 spoonsful of orange-flower water. Rub a mould over with butter, powder some sugar over, and pour in your paste; sprinkle more sugar over, and bake it in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. BISCUITS, SPONGE (1). Beat together, for half an hour, 4 well-beaten eggs and | lb. of finely-pounded loaf sugar; then mix in lightly 6 ozs. of dried and sifted flour and the grated peel of a lemon, or a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, with a table-spoonful of rose water. Flour the pans, fill them half full, and sift pounded sugar over them. Bake them in a quick oven. BISCUITS, SPONGE (2). Break 12 eggs, separate the yolks and whites; to the former put fib. of powder sugar; stir well with a wooden spoon till it rises in large bladders; whisk the whites to a very firm froth, and then mix them very lightly with the yolks and sugar, and when incorporated add 10 ozs. of fine dried and sifted flour. Stir them all well together, and pour the mixture into well-buttered tin moulds ; sift sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. Take them from the tins while hot. BISCUITS, SPOON. Break 4 eggs, put the yollfs into separate basins ; add to the former i lb. of powder sugar; having grated on it the zest of a lemon, mix these together well with a spatula for ten minutes; then whip the whites to a froth, and put about half of it to the yolks, and when that is well mixed in add the rest; stir it very lightly, and lay the biscuits with a spoon on paper ; make them about three inches long, and the breadth of a finger. Glaze them with powder sugar, and place them on baking tins ; and, as the sugar dissolves and they shine, put the biscuits into a moderate oven, which must be kept open for seven or eight minutes, then close it until your biscuits are of a proper colour. When cold detach them from the paper with a thin knife blade, and lay them by in couples, the glazed side outwards, till wanted. BISCUITS, SUGAR (1). Take the weight of 8 eggs in finely-pounded loaf sugar, and of 4 in dried flour; beat separately the whites and yolks of 8 eggs ; with the yolks beat in sugar half an hour; then add the whites and the flour, and a little grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, or pounded cin- namon. Bake them in yellow tea-cups, or drop them upon paper, as the French Biscuits. BISCUITS, SUGAR (2). Mix together 1 lb. of dried and sifted flour, the same quantity of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, 10 well-beaten eggs, and a few pounded cloves. Drop this upon floured tins, and bake it. BISCUITS, SWEET. Take i lb. of fine- pounded sugar and sift it through a tammy. Put the whites of 12 eggs into a preserving-pan, and the yolks into an earthenware tureen; whip the whites to a sncw, and then carcfull}' pour on it the yolks and sugar; stir them gently;