[ 322 ] COC coc remedies. It has also been recommended as an anodyne to children in hooping cough, but we do not know that it has been proved to possess any narcotic power. Lately it has been ex- tolled as a remedy in tic douloureux. Sauter pre- scribed 20 drops of the tincture morning and evening. On the recurrence of a violent fit half a table-spoonful was taken at one time, and the pain ceased in a few minutes, and never returned. In another case the pain ceased at once and for ever. In a third case, although the patient took half a table-spoonful, mitigation only was obtained. In pharmacy it is used for colouring tinctures and lip salves. But cochi- neal is used chiefly in the arts for the sake of the fine colour it furnishes, and it is principally consumed by the scarlet dyers. The colour is easily extracted by alcohol, water, and water of ammonia, and in the dried insect it is not im- paired by keeping for any length of time. COCHINEAL : To Preserve. Boil 1 oz. of cochineal beaten to a fine powder in f pint of water until reduced to half; then add to it rock alum and cream of tartar, of each f oz., pounded finely. Boil all together a short time, and strain it. If to be kept any time 1 oz. of loaf sugar should be boiled with it. COCHINEAL, PREPARED. Pound 1 oz. of cochineal to a very fine powder; pound also 1 oz. of cream of tartar and 2 drachms of alum. Put these ingredients into a saucepan with -^pint of water. When it boils take it from the fire, and let it cool. Pour it off into a bottle as free from sediment as possible, and set it by for use. COCK-A-LEEKY. Truss an old fowl in the same manner as for boiling, and put it into a pot with a piece of lean beef, unless you have some gravy soup, and then the beef may be omitted. Stew it till nearly tender ; then take two dozen leeks, cut off the white part, with a little of the green, about an inch in length, and add them to the soup, with a little spinach and parsley. Stew the whole till it is rich and good, and season with pepper and salt. Some persons stew it with -^Ib. of French prunes. Serve it up with the fowl in the tureen. COCKLE CATSUP. Wash the quantity of cockles you may require in their own liquor, and, having pounded them, to every pint of paste put an equal quantity of sherry, Boil it, and put to it 1 oz. of salt, the same of Cayenne, and 2 drachms of pounded mace. Boil it a second time, skim, and rub it through a sieve. When quite cold bottle it, and keep it tightly corked. COCKLE SAUCE. Scald the cockles in their own liquor, and when the liquor settles add a little water if necessary. Strain, and season with all sorts of spices. For brown sauce put in a little port wine, garlic, and an anchovy; but if the sauce is to be wJdte instead of these latter ingredients use sherry, lemon juice, mace, nutmeg, white pepper, and lemon-peel. Cockle sauce is also made the same way as Oyster Sauce. COCKLE SOUP (with Mushrooms). Pre- pare meat, vegetable, or fish stock, and season it well without salt, as the juice of the shell fish generally makes it salt enough. Boil the parings and stalks of the mushrooms in it. Every quart of soup will require half a pint of cockles, more or less, according to the size and quantity of mush- rooms used. If they are not all buttons of the same size they ought to be cut, and should be cooked white in butter, or cooked slowly in the stock, as they take a long time. All fish soups may be heightened with catsups, anchovies, lemon pickle, soy, &c. COCKLES. These should be procured a day or two before they are wanted, that they may be cleansed as much as possible from the grits. They are cleansed as follows :—Put the cockles into a tub with plenty of water, and stir them up two or three times a day with a birch- broom ; change the water each day, and when properly cleaned put them into a saucepan with hot water, and boil them. As soon as the shells open they are done. They should be served very hot. COCKLES, PICKLED. Boil 3 quarts of cockles in their own liquor for half an hour, skimming them well; then take out the cockles, and strain the liquor through a cloth. Take a pint of water, and add to it f oz. of mace and ^ oz. of cloves. Boil these together once, then put it to the cockles and remaining liquor, and stir it well; add to this a spoonful of salt, f pin* of white wine vinegar, and J oz. of whole pepper, and let it stand. When cold put the cockles in small barrels or jars as closely as they will lay; pour on them as much liquor as you possibly can, and as it soaks in put in more. Cover them very closely. They may be soon eaten. COCKROACH. See Beetles, Black. COCKS' COMBS: To Preserve. Let them be well cleaned; then put them into a pot with some melted bacon, and boii them a little. About half an hour afterwards add a little bay salt, some pepper, a little vinegar, a sliced lemon, and an onion stuck with cloves. Wben the bacon begins to stick to the pot take them up, put them into the pan you would keep them in, lay a clean linen cloth over them, and poiur clarified butter over them to keep them close from the air. COCKS'COMBS (Farced). Make a force- meat as follows:—Chop up some beef marrow, bacon, and the white parts of a fowl, and pound them in a mortar with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg well beaten; then, having