[ 82 ] BAT BAT exposing the pei'son to sucli extremes of tempe- rature is explained by the experiments of Dr. Edwards, who found that " after an exposure to cold, sufficient to diminish the power of pro- ducing heat, continuance in a high temperature tends to the recovery of this power; for, in exposing animals to successive applications of cold, their temperature will fall the more slowly the longer they shall have been subjected to the influence of warmth. It follows, therefore, that the effect of the application of a certain degree of heat is continued after the cessation of the cause. Hence, we see that those who are liable to frequent exposure to severe cold are rendered more capable of supporting it, by subjecting themselves in the intervals to a high temperature —a practice adopted by northern nations, and justified by facts." (Edwards " On the Influ- ence of Physical Agents on Life," p. 125.) The vapour-bath is distinguished from all other means of introducing more heat into the body chiefly by the circumstance that, as a portion of the vapour is converted into water by coming in contact with the surface of the body, it communicates a quantity of sensible caloric to it. It is without doubt the most powerful means of supplying a great heat to the greatest portion of the surface of the body, internal as well as external; for when breathed, the extensive surface forming the interior of the lungs is influenced by it in the same way as the skin. On the skin it exerts a peculiar influence. It does not cause that constriction of the skin which follows the application of dry air. nor does it exert that pressure upon the surface, which, in the case of warm water, retards the breaking out of the perspiration. On the contrary, moisture of the skin, followed by profuse perspiration, occurs immediately upon entering the vapour-bath. In Russia, where such baths are used on a large scale, their employment is not found to be productive of weakness. The subsequent ex- posure to cold restores the tone of the skin which had been lost, and the process leaves the person with a general sense of good health, strength, and power, both of the internal organs and of the skin. " These practices," says Dr. Clarke, " seem to delight them, and to add strength to their constitution." The vapour-bath, by attracting the blood more speedily to the surface, and by being followed by more profuse perspiration, is more powerful than the warm-water bath. It is employed as a remedy in gout and rheumatism, and in the numerous consequences of these when they have assumed the chronic form. Many cases of rheumatic and gouty contraction of the joints have been removed by persevering in the use of vapour-baths, as employed by the continental nations. In scrofulous dii^eases, especially when they affect the skin and the glands, benefit is derived from the vapour-bath, vailess there be a manifest tendency to active inflammation, and great irritability of the nervous system. In some chronic affections of the nei-vous system, especially when connected with the repulsion or imperfect development of cutaneous diseases, the vapour-bath is of great use, and also in some affections of the respiratory organs, such as dry catarrh, asthma, spasms of the muscles of respiration, if these are not com- plicated with inflammation or organic disease of the lungs or heart. The use of the vapour-bath would be found to ward off many acute diseases resulting from exposure to cold, if had recourse to immediately after exposm-e to the exciting cause; as after travelling, or falling into the water in winter. The local application of warm vapour is very serviceable in many recent diseases. Catarrhs, sore throats of an inflammatory kind, inflam- mations of the eyes and ears, are greatly alleviated by such means. But when the lungs are inflamed, though Mudge's or other inhaler is much recommended, yet the effort required to draw in the vapour is injurious. The head, from which a flannel cloth may faU down in such a way as to hinder the vapour from escaping, should be held over a basonful of warm water, and the vapoui" inhaled in the ordinary mode of respiration. The vapour-bath is very improper for plethoric persons, those predisposed to con- gestion or to apoplexy, and also for individuals in a state of great debility. The employment of heated air, as an appli- cation to the body, causes the primary action of heat to manifest itself more than the secondary. The hot-air bath is, therefore, powerfully stimu- lant to the skin and nervous system, and is of great service in all cases where the pro- duction of animal heat is less than natural, as in the cold stage of fevers, and exhaustion of the nervous power. It has been employed beneficially in congestive fever, and after great and continual mental exertion. It proved less useful in the Asiatic cholera than was anticipated. A convenient apparatus for applying it was invented by the late Dr. Gower, called a suda- torium, and several other forms have been in- troduced by others. Medicated Baths rarely possess greater power than that possessed by the water alone; but there are a few exceptions. The admixture of common salt makes the water more stimulating and tonic. Sulphurous Vapoub Baths fall under the head of Medicated Baths, and a few remarks may be here made respecting them. Nightmen, and other individuals who live much in an atmo-