AUT ATT [ 51 ] and adding a pint of olive oil. Expose the mixture to the sunshine, or the temperature of a warm room for a week. Press out the oil, and repeat the process by adding fresh pulp of rose petals until the oil is sufficiently perfumed. ATTELETS. These are small silver skewers. AUBERGINES. These are the pear-shaped varieties of the vegetable-marrow. AUGUST. The provisions now in season are as follows :— Meat. Beef, mutton, veal, lamb, and buck venison. Poultry. Fowls, chickens, ducklings, rabbits, pigeons, green geese, turkey poults. Game. Wheatears, leverets, wild ducks, quails, plovers, ruffs, and reeves. Fish. Dabbs, flounders, gurnets, plaice, her- rings, skate, mackerel, thornback, salmon, stur- geon, mullets, pike, carp, eels, turbot, whiting, shell-fish, except oysters. Fruit. Peaches, plums, figs, filberts, mulber- ries, cherries, apples, pears, nectarines, grapes, pine-apples, melons, strawberries. Vegetables. Beans, peas, cabbages, sprouts, cauliflowers, beet, carrots, potatoes, turnips, lettuces, small salad, endive, celery, radishes, onions, cucumbers, mushrooms, artichokes. AUTUMN extends over the period of the year between the 10th of September and the 10th of December. Dr. Forster, speaking of the climate near London, says the mean tem- perature is 49° 37', or 11° 29' below that of summer. The average temperature of the day declines from 58° to 40°. "The mean height of the barometer is 29-781 inches, being about one- tenth of an inch below its mean in summer. The prevailing winds are from points including the south and west. The evaporation from the earth is 6^ inches. The average fall of rain is 7^ inches. With us autumn is the real rainy season, and the earth, which had become com- paratively dry during the spring and summer, now begins to receive again the moisture neces- sary for the existence of plants and animals during the next year. Although this season begins early in September, it is not until Michaelmas that it really sets in with a cooler air, often with cold nights, but for the most part fine weather; as it advances, and the temperature continues to decline, it frequently produces showers and wet weather, accompanied with high gales of wind which prevail most during the night, and are often succeeded by dead calms in the day- time. Fogs begin to become denser and to last all day, overspreading the meadows to a great extent in low and flat situations, and they are not overcome even by the rays of the mid-day eun. About Allhallowtide in the neighbourhood of Loudon and of Amsterdam the faint beams of the sun are hardly seen for two hours in twenty- four, and this for many days together. Occa- sionally fogs happen at every period of the autumn and winter, but this is the season o*^ their prevalence. The retreat of the swallows and martlets constitutes one of the most remarkable features in the history of this period. Swallows assemble early in September, and so continue to appear in vast quantities, roosting on the tops of houses and lofty buildings; their migration begins with the autumnal season, and the greatest part of the species migrate between new and old Michaelmas-day. Martlets retire a few days later; straggling swallows are seen about till the middle of October, and martlets sometimes till the end of that month. Many birds now arrive in flocks ; wild geese and ducks perform partial migrations, and woodcocks and snipes arrive. The flowering of the saffrons, the autumnal crocus, the purple and the white varieties of the colcliicum in our gardens, Michaelmas daisies, and other late asters, are indications of the approach of this season. Fungi now become very abundant in moist places. The leaves during the autumnal season turn yellow, red, or brown, and at length falling, by degrees cover the ground with a thick carpeting. The beech, the oak, and a few deciduous trees keep their old dead leaves till spring. A colder air, wet fogs, or alternations of wind and fine weather, close this period at the end of November. Autumn as regards health is the most sickly season of the year. Hence Tertullian calls it " the test of valetudinarians ;" but the ancient Germans, though acquainted with the three other seasons, appear to have been uninfluenced by the severity of autumn, as they had no jmrticular term to express it, unless we admit the word "harvest," in modern German, herhst, as equivalent to what they at present call erndte, or the gathering in the fruits of the earth. The circumstances which render this season the least conducive to a healthy state of the body are the following: 1. Because the veget- able kingdom, with very few exceptions, returns the leaves of trees and plants to the earth, where they undergo spontaneous decomposition. This decay, or process of putrefaction, produc(!3 a remarkable change in the air, that surrounding medium which supports animal life, and the relative purity of which determines the most important function of the system, namely, that of respiration ; 2. As, by the greater pressure and humidity of the atmosphere, the pores of the skin are so affected that they become unable to perform their office of exhalation with the same facility as in winter and summer, it follows that perspirable matter, or at least its grosser