DRI [ 430 ] tlian those of a sanguine <nncl cliolenc tempera- nent. Tlie laliorious ought to drink more than the sedentary, and still more in summer than in winter, to supply the humours lost by insensible perspiration. In the morning when we rise we generally feel an inclination for drink, which is gratified by tea, coffee, or other warm liquors. Water would unquestionably be a more proper beverage at this time, and it would be disagreeable to those only whose stomachs are spoiled by the habitual use of warm liquors and hot rolls. A glass of pure fresh water, and awhile after it a piece of bread, with some fruit, or even butter, would afford a very wholesome breakfast, by which the stomach and intestines might be cleared, the blood and humours refreshed, and the whole body strengthened. If the stomach be not loaded with mucus, or relaxed by tip- pling, a basin of sweet cow's'milk, with a piece of stale bread, is an excellent breakfast iu spring and summer. To drink immediately before a meal is im- proper, liecause the stomach is thereby swelled, and rendered less fit for the digestion of food. Hence, to avoid the necessity of drinking, it is advisable not to take any violent exercise imme- diately before diinier. To drink much at night previously to our going to bed is likewise hurt- ful ; but the drinking before a meal is moie noxious than at any other time, because the stomach is filled wkh. the liquid we swallow, the bile and the gastric juice there collected are too much diluted, and consequently the important ofiice of digestion is checked. It is also objectionable to drink much during the time of taking food, as the stomach is thus rendered incapable of receiving the due portion of aliment. Cold beer or water does not well agree with warm victuals, and the teeth are injured by taking hot and cold substances in immediate succession. In the hot weather of summer it is scarcely possible to delay drinking till the dinner be finished; and it is the more necessary, or rather, less hurtful at this time, as the bile which serves to dissolve the victuals then requires greater dilution. In winter, un- less we eat very dry and salted provisions, we feel less inclined to drink at table ; but, if we must drink in the intervals of eating, it would be most conducive to digestion to drink water only, and in small quantities, as pure water is more proper during the time of eating, because it agrees with all dislies without exception. Yet a glass or two of wine during dinner, par- ticularly for the aged and debilitated, is proper and conducive to digestion. Some observers advise us never to drink without eating something; but he who drinks only \ihea nature reijuires it has no occasion to eat every time he drinks. Persons, on the con- trary, who are once accustomed to drink more than is necessary, or to make use of hot, stimu- lating, and intoxicating liquors, would do well always to eat some bread or other solid food along with them. Indeed, we ought to begin to drink only after our appetite for food is satisfied, and then it should be done gradually during digestion. This function may be disturbed by large draughts of liquor, which occasion fer- mentation and flatulency. Excessive drink loads and oppresses the sto- mach by distending it too much ; but it is net nearly so hurtful as too much food. Every beverage relaxes the stomach, and persons whose bowels are not sufficiently elastic should be careful in the quantity they drink ; for an immoderate proportion of it may weaken diges- tion, dilute the fluids too much, and conduct the food too quickly through the alimentary canal. An undue portion of drink renders the mass of blood too thin and watery : from a thin blood arises also a weak alimentary fluid, consequently a general debility of the body, and relaxation of the urinary and other passages. On the other hand, too little drink is equally improper ; digestion is weakened ; many parts of victuals remain undissolved, and are not con- ducted to the lacteals, because the proper means of diluting them are wanting; the blood be- comes thick and viscid; and finally, the secre- tions and excretions are not duly performed, because the different canals are too dry aud contracted. DRIPPING: To Ci.artft. Set it on the fire in a clean pan, and when melted and just going to boil take it off, and ptour it into another pan half filled with boiling hot water; stir the whole very well together with a broad wooden spoon, and then remove the pan into a cool place till the next day, when the clarified diip- ping will be found floatmg on the surface of the water. DRI I'PIXG: To Pot. Roil 6 lbs. of the best dripping in soft water, strain it into a pan, and let it cool; then take off the fat, and scrape the gravy from the inside. Do this repeated!}'-, then put it into a saucepan, with six bay leaves, twelve cloves, ^ lb. of salt, and J lb. of whole pepper. Melt the fat, and when just hot strain it into a pot till cold, and then cover it closely. It makes excellent paste for puddings. DROP BISCUITS. Beat up the whites of six eggs and the yolks of ten with a spoonful of rose watei', and then put in 10 ozs. of beaten and sifted loaf sugar ; whisk them well for half an hour, and then add 1 oz. of caraway seeds crushed a little, and G ozs. of fine flour Mix the whole well together, drop them on papers, and hake them in a moderatelv heated oveu.