BLA [ ] BAL effects of a tropical sun. But Sir Everard Home has found by experiment, that whilst the skin is blistered by exposure to the sun's rays ■when covered only by thin white linen, no such injury occurs when black crape is used. Thus, as the black colour acts by converting the radiant heat of the sun into sensible heat, it in reality prevents the scorching quality of the i"ays ; whilst the increase of sensible heat is neutralised by the corresponding increase of perspiration which naturally takes place. For a similar reason white pigs are scorched by the sun, whilst black pigs remain unblistered. BLACK COCK is dressed in the same way as partridge : a small one will take thirty, a full- grown forty or fifty minutes to roast. Serve with a currant jelly, fried bread-crumbs, gravy, and bread sauce. BLACK DRAUGHT (1). Epsom salts, 3 ozs.; spirit of sal volatile, 3 drachms; tincture of senna, 1J oz.; infusion of senna, 9 ozs.; Spanish liquorice, 3 drachms; oil of cloves, 4 drops. Dissolve the Epsom salts and liquorice in the infusion of senna, promoting the dissolving by heating it. Drop the oil of cloves into the tincture of senna, and then mix all together. BLACK DRAUGHT (2). Alexandrian senna leaves, 1 oz.; ginger powder, 1 drachm; Epsom salts, 4 ozs.; cassia, 1 drachm; tincture of senna, 1 oz.; water, 10 ozs. Boil the senna, ginger, and cassia in the water for five minutes ; strain the liquor when cold through blotting- paper ; dissolve in it the Epsom salts, and then add the tincture of senna. Of either of these purgative preparations, usually called a black dose, the quantity to be taken by an adult is from 1^ to 2 ozs. fluid. BLACK DROP. Public attention was drawn to the black, quakers, or Lancaster drops, by Dr. Armstrong, who published the formula in the first edition of his w'ork on typhus fever. It is certain, however, that, many years before, two formulae were given to the public by a Dr. James Cassels, of Lancaster, one corresponding with that of Dr. Armstrong, and the other as follows : —Take of purified opium, 5 ozs. ; allspice and cinnamon, of each 2 drachms; saffron and Seville orange-peel, of each 1 drachm; recti- fied spirit of wine, 1 pint. Digest with a gentle heat for a week, and strain the liquor through flannel with a screw-press; then add 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of sugar-candy.- A friend of ours made the black drop according to the other prescription with the verjuice, but it did not correspond in colour, taste, or property with that which is sold as a secret preparation. We would, there- fore, recommend a trial of the last-mentioned formula, as a substitute for a very expensive bat very valuable medicine. It is a fact that nsither the one nor the other formula is origi- nal ; for Dr. Jones, in his " Mysteries of Opium Revealed," published nearly two centuries since, makes mention of a preparation of opium similar to Dr. Armstrong's receipt, under the title of laudanum liquidum cydoneatum. Quincy, in his "Dispensatory," published in 1772,takes notice of this formula, and gives others for making laud- anum with spices and aromatics, similar to the form which we now republish. — [Dr. Crell's Family Oracle.) Dr. Paris obsei-ves that this preparation, which has been long known and esteemed, as being more powerful in its operation and less distress- ing in its effects than any tincture of opium, has until lately been involved in much obscurity. The papers, however, of the late Edward Walton, of Sunderland, one of the near relations of the original proprietor, having fallen into the hands of Dr. Armstrong, that gentleman obliged the profession by publishing the manner in which it is prepared, and it is as follows:—"Take i lb. of sliced opium, 3 pints of good verjuice (juice of the wild crab), 1^ oz. of nutmegs, and i oz. of saff'ron. Boil them to a proper thickness, then add Jib. of sugar and 2 spoonsful of yeast. Set the whole in a warm place near the fire for six or eight weeks ; then place it in the open air until it becomes a syrup; lastly, decant, filter and bottle it up, adding a little sugar to each bottle." One drop of this pre- paration is considered equal to about three of the tincture of opium of the London " Pharma- copoeia." It would appear that an acetate of morphia is formed, which is more active and less distressing in its effects than any other narcotic combination. Liquor opii sedativus. Under this name, Mr. Battley, of Fore Street, London, introduced a narcotic preparation, which it is generally sup- posed owes its efficacy to the acetate of morphia. On being kept, however. Dr. Paris found that it underwent some important change, during which so much air was disengaged as to blow out the cork from the bottle with violence. This is an objection to its admission into practice. BLACK DYE. See Dyeing. BLACK PUDDINGS. Take I peck of gi'its, boil them half an hour in water, drain them, and put them into a clean tub or large pan. Then kill your hog, and save 2 quarts of the blood, and keep stirring it till the blood be quite cold; then mix it with the grits, and stir them well together. Season it with a lai'ge spoonful of salt, J oz. of a mixture of cloves, mace, and nut- meg together, an equal quantity of each. Dry it, beat it well, and mix it. Take a little winter savory, sweet marjoram, and thyme, and some pennyroyal, stripped of the stalks and chopped very fine. Of these take just a sufiicient quan- tity to season the puddings and to give them