L 285 ] C H 1 CHI elowly about a quarter of an hour, and tlien add butter enough to absorb the flour, and continue stirring it a few minutes longer. Put in 1 pint of stock, and stir it till the ingredients have boiled a little together ; then take off the pan, squeeze in some lemon-juice, and add ] tea- spoonful of pulverised lump sugar, with a small portion of pepper and salt to give it poignancy. CHICKEN POX. Commonly, after symp- toms of fever, an eruption appears, first on the back, and which consists of small red pimples. On the second day they assume the appearance of vesicles, containing a colourless or yellowish fluid. On the third the pustules arrive at maturity. The vesicles being subsequently ruptured, thin scabs are formed, without the appearance of purulent matter. About the fifth day from its commencement the eruption disap- pears, no indenture being left behind. This disease, which is derived from specific infectious matter, affects persons but once in their lives. It usually appears on the eighth or ninth day from the reception of the contagion. It may be known from small pox, which it much resem- bles, by the eruption not being preceded by for- midable febrile symptoms, nor by such as are uniformly of some extent; also by the pustules generally appearing first on the back, coming earlier to maturity, containing nothing but a yellow watery fluid, and drying or forming in- crustations on the fourth or fifth day. These distinguishing marks are the more essential, as, by an error m this respect, reliance might be placed on a fallacious security. Matter, too, from want of just discrimination, has been doubtless not unfrequently taken from the eruption, with the view of inoculating for the small pox. thereby subjecting those undergoing the process to the subsequent depredation of a formidable infection. The chicken pox, being a mild disease, always terminates favourably. The remedies suited to it are vegetable diet, some lessening of the in- fluence of heat, together with that of the other natural powers. Simple purgatives will be re- quired. CHICKEN BROTH. Boil the breast of a chicken in a quart of water. Take off the skin, and when the meat is cold pound it to a paste in a marble mortar with a little of the liquor; then season with a little salt, grated nutmeg, and a small bit of lemon-peel. Boil this com- pound gently for a few minutes till it acquires a proper consistency. Having thus prepared what is called chicken panada, which is of itself very nourishing, take the body and legs of a fowl, and, having removed the skin and rump, boil them in the water that was left of the former, and if there is not enough add as much as will be sufficient, with a blade of mace, a slice of bread, and ten or twelve whole pepper- corns ; then simmer till the broth has a pleasant taste. Beat ^ oz. of sweet almonds with a tea- spoonful of water very fine. Boil it in the broth, which must be strained, and when cold have the fat taken off. CHICKEN BROTH, PECTORAL. Pre- pare a chicken in the usual way, and put it into a saucepan with 2 ^ pints of water, 2 ozs. of pearl barley, the same of rice, and 2 ozs. of the best honey. Boil all together, skimming well for three hours, until it be reduced to two-thirds. CHICKEN, BUTTERED. Cut the chicken in quarters ; wash them in milk and water; simmer in as much milk as will cover them, with an onion stuck with cloves, zest, parsley, and salt for fifteen or twenty minutes. Mix a little of the liquor with ^ lb. of butter, some rich cream, nutmeg, and the yolks of 2 eggs. Work the sauce, and put in the chicken, but do not let it boil. This dish looks well in a deep dish or rice border, garnished with sliced lemon. CHICKEN EN CAPILOTADE. Put into a stewpan a little butter and flour; add mush- rooms, parsley, and shallots, cut small; dilute these with equal quantities of stock and red or white wine. When the sauce is well boiled skim it; cut a roasted fowl in pieces and put it into this sauce, and stew it gently for a quarter of an hour. Add some gherkms cut in thm slices. CHICKEN AND CAULIFLOWERS. Chop up the livers of two middhng sized chick- ens, and mix with them parsley, scallions, a bit of butter, salt, and pepper. Put this into the bodies of the chickens, which must be trussed like turkey poults; parboil them with a bit of butter or lard, then wrap them in bacon or buttered paper, and roast them. When done serve them with sauce made of cullis, butter, salt, and pepper, boiled up. Garnish with plain boiled cauliflowers. CHICKEN A LA CENDRE. Stuff a couple of chickens with a rich farce, lard, and prepare them as for roasting. Line a stewpan with slices of veal and bacon, onions, cairots, &c.; place the chickens in it, and let them stew in their own gravy for five or six hours over hot ashes. Keep the stewpan closely covered. When done serve them in their own liquor; but if that should be too thick put in a little stock or veal gravy. Boil it up two or three times. CHICKEN AND CHEESE. When the chickens are drawn and trussed cut them along the back, and flatten them; toss them up in a stewpan with a bit of butter, half a glass of white wine, the same of red wine, parsley, scallions,- 2 cloves, half a clove of garlic, half a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and very little salt and