BRE [ 167 ] BRI to worlt at once, a process which in small brewings frequently fails. Ours always succeeds, simply because the yeast has power over each addition ; the working heat will be formed at 70° or 78°; in that case we advise the immediate turning of the ale. We presume that the two 6-gallon . casks are quite clean, sweet, and dry. Place them on their stands, and put into each one- half of the reserved wort; mix with 2 table- spoonsful of flour and 1 spoonful of salt; take off some of the frothy yeast, and pour the liquor into the barrels till the froth begins to flow over; then desist for a time, and when the froth has somewhat subsided add more liquor. Thus by degrees the barrels may be filled to the bung- holes, and, being placed a little on one side, the yeast will flow down, and may be caught by vessels placed under the stands. In three or four days the working will subside, the yeast become thick, and cease to flow over; then a little of the ale, reserved in a stone bottle or jug, may be poured into the barrels, and in a few days the bung-holes may be covered with brown paper, well coated with thick yeast. The fermentation will now proceed slowly, and in the course of a fortniglit each barrel may be safely bunged down, and the bungs secured with a mass of moistened binding sand. We have known ale of the above strength to be clear in three months, perfectly bright in six months, and rich and mellow, so as to admit of no comparison with any ordinary beer, whether purchased or brewed at home. See Ale, Beer, and PoiiTRR. BRE WIS. Put a thick upper crust of bread into the pot where salt beef is boiling, just be- fore it is ready. When swollen and thoroughly soaked with the liquor it is very palatable. BRIDECAKE. Take 4 lbs. of fine flour well dried, 4 lbs. of fresh butter, 5i lbs. of loaf sugar, pounded and sifted fine, i oz. of mace, and the same quantity of nutmeg; to every pound of flour put 8 eggs ; wash and pick 4 lbs. of currants, and dry them before the fire; blanch 1 lb. of sweet almonds, and cut them very thin, lengthways, 1 lb. of citron, 1 lb. of candied orange, 1 lb. of candied lemon, and ^ pint of brandy. First work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your sugar a quarter of an hour; beat the whites of your eggs to a very strong froth; mix them with your sugar and butter; beat the yolks half an hour at least, and mix them with your cake; then put in your flour, mace, and nutmeg ; keep beating till the oven is ready; put in your brandy, and beat the currants and almonds in; tie three sheets of paper round the bottom of your hoops to keep the cake from running out; rub the paper well V'ilh butter; put in your cake, and the sweet- meats in three layers, with cake between every layer. After it has risen and coloured, corer it with paper before your oven is stopped up. It will take three hours baking. BRILL is dressed in the same way as turbot. See TuRBOT. BRIMSTONE, or Sdlphur, is found in most parts of the world. It occurs in a pure state near volcanoes ; there are mines of it in Thibet, and in England it is obtained from martial pyrites (sulphuret of iron) and our copper ores. Sulphur is of great utilitj' in the arts. When converted into an acid by combustion in the open air it aff'ords that extensively useful liquid vulgarly termed oil of vitriol; considerable quan- tities of which are consumed in the various pro- cesses of bleaching, dissolving metals, especially iron, and in other useful arts. It is also of great service in cementing iron railing to stones, by simply melting and pouring it into the in- terstices. Brimstone is farther advantageously employed for whitening silk, wool, or other articles, by exposing them to its fumes during combustion ; and it is a chief ingredient in the making of gunpowder. In medicine, sulphur is almost a specific in cutaneous diseases, whether administered internally with honey or molasses, or applied externally in the form of ointment. In the piles it is of evident benefit when taken in small doses ; and it is occasionally prescribed in chronic catarrhs and coughs, as it operates gently by promoting insensible perspiration through every pore of the skin. BRINE. Pickle made according to the com mon rule—that it should bear an egg—may be sufficiently strong to preserve substances in- tended for early use. A true pickle, however, for preserving meat, fish, and butter during a long voyage, ought to be boiled down till the salt begins to crystallise, which is discoverable by a thin scum on the sui-face of the liquid while it continues over the fire. The water being then completely saturated with salt, the pickle is perfect. See, also, Pickling and Salt. BRIOCHE. Divide half a quartern of flour into three parts, and knead into one of them i oz. of yeast and a little warm water; wrap it in cloth, and set it by, in summer time for a quarter of an hour, and in the winter for a whole hour. When it has risen put it to the remainder of tlie flour, with 1^ lb. of butter, 10 eggs, half a glass &f water, and nearly 1 oz. of salt; knead them together with your hands thoroughly, and then wrap it in a clean cloth, and leave it nine or ten hours. Cut this paste into the. size. )'.ou wish to have your cakes, moisten and roll them in your hand, flatten ttie top, and gild them with the yolk of an egg. Half an hour will be sufficient to bake the small ones; large ones will require an Lour and a half.