FUR [ 537 ] GAL rubbing it well in, as they will require more rubbing after washing, but they will look of a lighter colour and a higher polish than they did before. Never use the beer boiling hot, or leave it on too long. Sideboards and cellarets frequently have brass rods or ornaments of brass about them, which must be cleaned also. This ought to be done before the mahogany is cleaned, and in doing it great care must be taken that you do not dirty the mahogany. If there be any fly-dirt on the brass take it off with a piece of flannel well soaped; then polish it with the leather you clean your plate with, but do not rub it on the mahogany. If the brass which is on the cellai'et has got the lacker worn ofl you must polish it with a bit of leather and brickdust, the same as you do steel forks : be very careful not to rub the brickdust into the wood. Wrap the leather uj) in a small compass when you clean it, this will keep the brickdust from flying about the furniture When you have done the brass you must be careful that you do not dirty it with the oil or paste you may use in cleaning the mahogany. The furniture which is not in constant use will not require to be oiled as often as that which is. Once a week will be quite enough— oftener will do it harm rather than good ; it ought, however, to be dusted every day, and well rubbed. If it be kept covered with green cloth it will not want so much rubbing. Tables which are used daily must be well rubbed every morning, and great care should be taken to remove all spots from them, particularly ink. This you can do very easily, if it is not left to dry in a great while, by putting a little oxalic acid or salt of lemons on the spots of ink ; then have the end of a cloth just dipped into hot water, and rub the salt of lemons or oxalic acid on with your finger: this will remove them directly. If you use oil for tables never let it stand on long, nor put on too much at a time. If you do the damp will rise when hot dishes are put on, or anything else which is hot; therefore wax is preferable to oil, as it is very disagreeable to have much damp to wipe off the table when the company are seated round it, which must be done, or else it will look dull and clouded after the hot dishes are taken off; and it is an offensive appearance when one part is of a high polish, and the other looks dull and smeary. When you clean the tables or chairs be careful to remove them into the middle of the room, or at a distance from the wall, or any- thing which they may stand near. When this is not done the walls where the tables and isdeboai-d have stood are often smeared with the mixtuie the furniture has been cleaned with : this has not only a slovenly appearance, but likewise disfigures the wall. If the side- board or side-table is fixed to the wall you must be the more careful in cleaning it, and roll up your woollen cloth, or whatever you rub it with, tightly in your hand, and into a small compass. Polish for Mahogany Furniture. Take J2 ozs. of bees' wax scraped finely, put it into a pot or jar, and pour over it enough spirits of turpentine to cover it. Let it stand a little while, and it will be ready. If the furniture is to be kept a light colour add nothing to it; but if it is wished to have it a darker colour take a very small quantity of alkanet root or rose pink, and mix with it. Oil for Furniture. Take a pint of cold- drawn linseed oil, and if you wish to colour it take a little alkanet root or rose pink, and mix with it. Put a little on the furniture, and rub it well with a woollen cloth. Do not let the oil stand long on the table before it is rubbed off, as the sooner it is done the bettei'. German Polish for Furniture. Melt 1 oz. of black resin and I lb. of yellow wax in an earthen pipkin, and pour in by degrees 2 ozs. of spirits of turpentine. When the whole is well incorporated put it in an earthen jar, and keep it closely covered for use. Wlien you use it spread a little of it on the furniture with a woollen cloth, arid rub it well in. In a few days the polish will be as hard and bright as varnish. In trying a new receipt like this it is a good caution to begin with some trifling article of furniture to see how it succeeds, as otherwise you may spoil valuable things. FURNITURE OIL. Take 1 quart of cold-drawn linseed oil, 2 ozs. of spirits of salts, 1 oz. of oil of cloves, and pint of cold spring water; to be well mixed, and shaken every time it is used, This receipt will be found invaluable for cleaning rosewood, or any article of furniture with French polish. No hot dishes, &c., can injure it, and it will take out all stains. It should be rubbed on with a silk handkerchief or piece of fine linen rag, and the mixture should be allowed to remain upon the table ov article of furniture a few minutes before it is rubbed on. It will give the brightest polish to new furniture. G. GALBANUM is a gum resin produced by some umbelliferous plant, but the name of which is uncertain. The properties of galbanum are the same as those of AsAFffiTiDA. GALE, SWEET, Sweet Willow, or Dutch Myktle [Myrica gale), is an indigenous low plant, growing abundantly on bogs in gravelly