1 CAL C 210 ] CAL put them into a saucepanful of boiling water, vdth a little salt and i glass of vinegar. Let them remain in this till cold, which will make them firm. Cook them in a good marinade for three quarters of an hour, and when ready to serve pour some black butter into the dish, and garnish with fried parsley. CALF'S BRAINS (Breaded). Prepare them as for plain boiling; soak them for two hours in vinegar; take them out, and roll them in eggs beaten to a thick snow; cover them with bread-crumbs, and either broil or fry them. CALF'S BRAINS (Fkied). Prepare and dress the brains as for poelees, then cut them into 6 pieces, and put them into a basin, with salt, pepper, and vinegar till just before they are wanted, when they should be drained. Put them into batter, not too hot, and fry them. Drain them again, and place them on a dish round a pyramid of fried parsley. CALF'S BRAINS (in Jelly). Put some jelly in a plain round mould and set it in ice, and as soon as the jelly is well set tuni it on the table-dish, which must be placed over pounded ice. Put on the jelly a whole calf's brain ; cover it entirely with iced Montpelier butter; on this lay 3 more brains boiled very white. Ornament the top with pieces of jelly, garnish your dish with a border of jelly or coloured butter, and serve. CALF'S BRAINS (with Oysters). Blanch and clean the brains, then wipe them dry, dip them in the yolks of eggs, and roll them in bread-crumbs; fry them in boiling lard till of good colour; drain them very dry, and serve with oysters, stewed either white or brown. Garnish with broiled ham, cut in small, round pieces. CALF'S BRAINS (Plain). Take the brains from 2 calves' heads; clean and soak them in warm water; boil them in good stock, or con- somme. Sei-ve either cold or warm. CALF'S BRAINS (Scalloped). Cut some calf's brains into 12 pieces, and put into a sauce- pan mushrooms and truffles, tossed up in a little white wine; reduce them to a jelly, and then add 2 spoonsful of Allemande and ] spoonful of veloute. Boil these, and put to them a little butter, parsley, and lemon-juice; put in the brains, mix them all together, and put them into scallop shells; cover them with bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese; pour a little melted butter over, and brown them. CALF'S BRAINS BLANC-MANGE. When the brains are well cleansed and soaked place them on 2 slices of bacon and 2 slices of lemon in a stewpan, with a glass of stock. When suf- ficiently done take them out, and when cool cut them into strips, and pour over them white sauce-cream, boiled with the yolks of eggs, or any other cream-sauce you please. CALF'S BRAINS AND CRAYFISH. Boil the brains in a little stock; drain, and place them on a dish so tliat the end of each piece may meet in the middle. Take the tails and claws from as many crayfish as you please, a7id place one between each piece of the brain. Put one in the middle, with the tail and claws on. Pom: over the brains either butter of crayfish, or tomato sauce. CALF'S BRAINS MAGNONAISE. Clean and soak five calves' brains in cold water for some hours ; drain, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with a little salt, and i glass of tarragon vinegar. Having boiled tliem a quarter of an hour, take out the brains carefully, and put them in a pan of cold water. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon ; lay in the brains, and on them sliced lemons; cover the whole with bacon and buttered paper; add a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 onions stuck with cloves, and a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the brains. When it boils set the stewpan by the side of the fire, and keep it simmering for an hour. Let the brains cool in their liquor, and then drain them on a napkin; divide each brain in half; trim and place them en couronne on the table-dish; garnish them with a border of jelly, and in the spaces between each half brain lay a crescent of jelly cut with a paste-cutter, 2|^ inches in dia- meter. Pour into the centre of the crown a sauce magnonaise, either white or d la ravigoUe, and serve. CALF'S BRAINS PASTY. Cleanse and scald the brains, then blanch some asparagus tops with a little parsley and butter. When cold put them into the pasties, with the yolks of 6 hard eggs and some forcemeat. Put them into the oven, and when done lift up the upper crust, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, butter, and gravy. CALF'S BRAINS SALAD. Prepare and dress calf's brains as for Magnonaise ; place them also en couronne on a bed of lettuce, cut small, and dressed as usual; garnish each piece of the brains with lettuce, and arrange a border of eggs, lettuce, hearts, and anchovies cut in slips. When about to serve it pour over the brains, or into the middle of them, a sauce magnonaise d la ravigotte. CALF'S CHAWDRON (German). Make a gratin with Swiss cheese rasped, bread-crumbs, 2 yolks of eggs, and a little cullis; place it in a table-dish over hot ashes, that it may catch at the bottom; then put in the chawdron, boiled, cleared of the fat, cut in pieces, and previously mixed with sauce Robert. Garnish the dish with small onions boiled in broth and bits of bread fried in butter; pour on it a little butter, melted