BEE [ 9^ ] BEE it up in. wood-smolte for the same space of time. Keep it in a dry, but not a very hot place, and wlien used, cut it into slices or boil it like Ham- burgh beef. BEEF HAMS (2). Rub a little common salt over a piece of beef of about 20 lbs. weight; take out the bone, and, in one or two days, rub well into the beef the following ingredients, finely pounded and well mixed :—2 ozs. of sal prunella, 4 ozs. of brown sugar, 6 ozs. of bay salt, 1 oz. of white pepper, and of cloves and nut- meg, i oz. each; then strew over it ^Ib. of com- mon salt. Let it lie fifteen days, turning it daily. It is then to be hung up; or when taken out of the pickle it may be boiled, and allowed to stand till cold in the water in which it was boiled; or it may be baked in a deep dish, covered with warm paste. BEEF, HASHED (1). Take three or four onions, chop them very fine, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and a little flour; stir them over the fire till nearly done and well browned ; then moisten them with a little stock and half a glass of wine, adding some salt and coarse pepper ; let them stew till they are thoroughly done, and very little sauce re- mains ; then put in the cold beef, minced small, and let the whole simmer till it has taken the flavour of the onion. When you serve, add a spoonful of mustard and a little vinegar. BEEF HASHED (2). Cut some of the under-done part of the beef in slices, with some of the fat, put it into a small stewpan with some onions or shallots (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, and salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft; then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the hash. Do not let it boil. Have a small dish with sippets of bread ready, and put the hash into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it. If shallot vinegar is used there will be no need of -the onion or raw shallot. You may add 1 spoonful of walnut liquor or catsup. OlDserve that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be simmered, and this only hot through. BEEF, HUNG. Lay a rib of beef in a strong brine, made of bay salt, saltpetre, and spring water, for some days; then hang it up in a chimney where wood and sawdust is burnt. When a little dry, wash the outside with blood two or three times, to make it look black ; let it dry, and it will be fit for use. Or, hang up the navel-piece in a cellar as long as it will keep good, and then take it down, cut it into three parts, and wash each in sugar and water. Next take 1 lb. of saltpetre, and double that quantity of bay salt, pounded ; mix with them 3 spoons- ful of coarse sugar, and rub the whole thoroughly into the beef. After this, strew over it a quan- tity of common salt, and let the beef lie therein till it is dissolved. Turn the meat eveiy day for a fortnight, and then hang it up in the kitchen. When wanted for use, boil it in bay salt and pump-water till it is tender. It will keep after being boiled two or three months, if care be taken to wipe it clean, and it is not suffered to get mouldy. BEEF, HUNG (Burgess's). Hung beef for grating should be put on in boiling water; and, to preserve the colour, kept boiling as fast as possible. Allow for 6 lbs. of beef one hour and a half. It will keep good for a length of time. BEEF, HUNTING. Rub well into a round of beef, weighing about 40 lbs., 3 ozs. of salt- petre; let it stand five or six hours; pound 3 ozs. of allspice, 1 oz. of black pepper, and mix them with 2 lbs. of salt, and 7 ozs. of brown sugar. Rub the beef all over with the salt and spices ; let it remain fourteen days, and every other day turn and rub it with the pickle; then wash off the spices, and put it into a deep pan. Cut small nearly 6 lbs. of beef suet; put some into the bottom of the pan, but the greater part upon the top of the beef. Cover it with a coarse paste, and bake it eight hours. When cold, take off the crust, and pom- off the gravy. It will keep good for three months. Preserve the gravy, as a little of it improves the flavour of hashes, soups, or any made-dishes. BEEF, LEG OF : To Bake. Cut off the meat, and break the bones ; put the whole into a pan with 2 onions, some herbs, 1 spoonful of whole pepper, a few cloves, and some blades of mace. Cover all these with water, tie the pot down close with brown paper, and send it to the oven. When done, strain the liquor through a sieve, pick out the fat and sinews, and put them into a saucepan with a little gravy, and some butter, rolled in flour. Set the saucepan on the fire, shake it often, and when hot pour the con- tents into a dish, and send it to table. Ox cheek may be done in the same way ; and if the liquor be too strong, weaken it with hot-water. BEEF, LEG OF: To Stew. Cut off all the meat without the gristle. Saw the bone into several pieces, and put them with 3 gallons of water, 6 onions, 4 carrots, some sweet herbs, 2 leeks, a little allspice, salt, and black pepper, into a pot to stew all night. Next morning take off the fat, and having cut the meat into thick slices, fry them till brown with a part of the skimming, and keep the remainder to make pie- crust. Fiy 6 sliced onions ; put them and the meat, with 1 quart of table-beer, into the pot with the liquor produced by the bones, adding onions and other vegetables as before. Stew the whole eight hours ; take up the meat, and strain the liquor over it.