[ 90 ] BEE BEE is sometimes found in the shoulder and at others iu the neck-jjiece, but which must likewise be taken out. The brisket and the ribs must be jointed for the admission of salt, which should be well filled with it for keeping. Heifer beef is excellent when finely fed, and is most suitable for smaU families. The bone should be taken out of a round of beef before it is salted, and it must be washed, skewered, and bound round firmly before being boiled. Salt beef should be put on with plenty of cold water, and when it boils the scum removed. It is then kept simmering for some hours. A piece weigh- ing 15 lbs. will require three hours and a half to boU. Carrots and turnips for garnishing should be put on to boil with the beef. If in the least tainted, a piece of charcoal may be boiled with them. When beef is to be kept any length of time, it should be carefully wiped every day. In warm weather pyroligneous vinegar is an excellent pre- servative ; it is put all over the meat with a brush. To protect the meat from flies, it may be sprinkled over it with pepper. Tainted meat may be restored by washing it in cold water, afterwards in strong camomile tea, after which it may be sprinkled with salt and used the following day, washing it first in cold water. Koughly pounded charcoal rubbed all over the meat also restores it when tainted. In Scotland meat is frequently kept a fortnight smothered in oatmeal, and carefully wiped every day; and if it should be a little tainted, it is soaked some hours before it is used in oatmeal and water. These directions equally apply to all sorts of meat. The sirloin is the prime joint for roasting. When to be used it should be washed, then dried with a clean cloth, and the fat covered over with a piece of white paper tied on with thread. The spit should be kept at all times exceedingly clean ; it must be wiped dry im- mediately after it is drawn from the meat, and washed and scoui'ed every time it is used. Care should be taken to balance the roast properly upon the spit; but, if not exactly right, it is better to make it equal by fastening on a leaden- headed skewer than to pierce it again. The fire should be prepared by putting plenty of coals at the back. When put down, it should be about ten inches from the fire and gradually drawn nearer. It is first basted with a little butter or fresh drippbig, and then well basted with its own fat all the time it is roasting. Ten minutes before serving, it should be sprinkled with a little salt, then dredged with flour, and basted till it is frothed. When it is drawn from the spit some gravy will run out, to which may be added a little boiling salt and water, poured along the bone; the beef is then garnished with plenty of finely-scraped horseradish. A sirloin, weighing about 15 lbs., should be roasted for three hours and a half. A thinner piece of the same weight requires only thi'ee hours. In cold weather meat requires longer roasting than in warm, and if newly killed than if it has been kept. BEEF : To Bake. Let a buttock of beef, which has been in salt about a week, be well washed, and put into an eaithen pan with a pint of water; cover the pan tight with two or three sheets of foolscap paper; let it bake four or five hours in a moderately-heated oven. BEEF: To Bake (with Potatoes). Boil some potatoes, peel, and pound them in a mortar with one or two small onions; moisten them with milk, and an egg beaten up ; add a little salt and pepper. Season slices of bacon or mutton-chops with salt and pepper, and more onion if the flavour is approved of; rub the bottom of a pudding-dish with butter, and put a layer of mashed potatoes, which should be as thick as the batter, and then a layer of meat, and so on alternately tiU the dish is filled, ending with potatoes. Bake it in an oven for an hour. BEEF, AITCH-BONE OF: To Dress. This fine joint will not take so much boiling as the round; one of 20 lbs. may be done in about three hours and a half, and one of half the size in two hours. It should be put into a large pot, and be well covered with water, taking care that it does not boil too fast. The slower it boils the better it will look, and the more tender it will eat. It must be accompanied by the same vegetables as the boiled rump, but particularly carrots. Gormands esteem the soft fat which lies in the back as marrow ; but the hard fat about the udder is best when cold. The liquor in which the beef is boiled will prove excellent for pea-soup. BEEF, A-LA-BRAISE (1). Bone a rump of beef; lard it very thickly with salt pork, seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice, and season the beef with pepper and salt; put some slices of bacon into the bottom of the pan, with some whole black pepper, a little allspice, 1 or 2 bay leaves, 2 onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; put in the beef, and lay it over some slices of bacon, 2 quarts of weak stock and i pint of white wine; cover it closely, and let it stew between six and seven hours. Sauce for the beef is made of part of tlie liquor it has been stewed in, strained, and thickened with a little flour and butter, adding some green onions cut small, and pickled mushrooms. It is poured hot over the beef. BEEF, A-LA-BRAISE (2). After a rump of beef has hung for five or six days, bone, and lard it thickly, but so as not to appear upon