C 344 ] COL COM COLLOPS AND EGGS. Cut either bacon, pickled beef, or bung mutton into thin slices ; iDroil them nicely; lay them in a dish before the fire ; have ready a stewpan of boiling water; break as many eggs as you have collops one by one in a cup, and pour them into a stewpan. When the whites of the eggs begin to harden, and all look of a clear white, take them up one by one in an egg slice, and lay them on the collops. COLLOPS OF PRESERVES. Roll out some puff paste very thin, wet it, and lay on it at intervals whatever preserves you think proper; roll your paste over, press the ends together, and lay them on a tin. Just before they are wanted fry them lightly; drain and sprinkle them with sugar ; glaze and serve them. COLLOPS (A LA Russe). Break 4 eggs into a stewpan, and mix with them 2 spoonsful of flour; then half a glass of good cream, 1 spoonful of warm butter, and a grain of salt. When these are well mixed together put some of it into a large frying-pan, and fry it of a light colour on both sides ; then take it out, and fry more in the same way, like pancakes, until you have half a dozen very thin; cut each in half, and trim them into oblong pieces of the same size; lay on each some quene]le, minced fowl, or game, as if for croquettes ; wrap the fried batter round it, wetting the edges, that they may adhere properly, with a little of the batter, having reserved some for the purpose; then have ready beaten six eggs and a little salt; mash them with bread crumbs, fry them of a good colour, and serve them quickly. COLLOPS, SCOTCH. Cut veal cutlets taken from the fillet into small thin pieces, and fry them in a little boiling lard till of a light brown colour; drain them dry, and put them into a stewpan ; add cullis, stewed mushrooms, some blanched truffles, morels, pieces of arti- choke bottoms, some slices of throat sweet- breads, and egg balls. Let them simmer over a slow fire till tender ; season to the palate, and serve with rashers of broiled bacon round them. COLLYRIUM, or Eye Wateb, is an applica- tion for allaying inflammation of the eye. Water applied frequently as hot as it can be borne, by means of a rag dipped into it, is one of the best of such applications. The following may be applied after the inflammation has subsided :— Dissolve of super-acetate of lead and sulphate of zinc each 8 grains in 4 fluid ounces of rose water. Apply frequently to the ej-^es. COLOCYNTH in medicine is the pulp of the fruit of the bitter cucumber {Cucurnis col.o- cynthis). It requires great care in using, being a very powerful drastic cathartic, and was em- ployed by the ancients in dropsical and lethargic diseases. Many attempts have been made to mitigate its violence, which is best effected by triturating it with gummy farinaceous substances or the oily seeds. The watery decoction or in- fusion is much less severe, and has been recom- mended in worm cases, but it is rarely employed except in combination with other purgatives. Thunberg informs us that this article is ren- dered so perfectly mild at the Cape of Good Hope by being pickled, that it is absolutely used as food both by the natives and colonists. Mixed with paste or other cements it is used to keep away insects, which it does by its extreme bitterness. Dose, four to ten grains. COLOGNE WATER, or Eau de Cologne, may be made by combining the following in- gredients :—Oil of bergamot, 1 drachm; oil of lemon, 1 drachm ; oil of lavender, 20 drops; oil of neroli, 20 drops; oil of rosemary, 10 drops ; essence of ambergris and musk, 5 drops; and rectified spirit of wine, 1 pint. Mix and strain through blotting paper. COLOURING. In cookery, for a beautiful red boil 15 gi-ains of cochineal in the finest powder, with li drachms of cream of tartar, in i pint of water very slowly half an hour. Add, in boiling, a bit of alum the size of a pea, or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a little drop of water, or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs or a bit of saffron steeped in the liquor and squeezed. For green, pound spinach leaves or beet leaves, express the juice, and boil a tea-cupful in a saucepan of water, to take off the rawness. COLTSFOOT, ESSENCE OF. Mix 1 drachm of balsam of tolu and 1 drachm of com- pound tincture of benzoin with 2 drachms of rectified spirit of wine. This is sold as a remedy for a cough, but is more likely to be injurious than beneficial. COLTSFOOT, SYRUP OF. Take of colts foot 6 ozs.; maidenhair, 2 ozs.; hyssop, 1 oz.; liquorice root, 1 oz.; boil them in 2 quarts ol spring water till a fourth is consumed; then strain it, and put to the liquor 2 lbs. of fine powder sugar; clarify it with the whites of eggs, and boil it till it is nearly as thick as honey. COLTSFOOT WINE. To 1 gallon ol flowers put 4 gallons of boiling water; let it stand till cold; then strain it through a sieve, and put 3 lbs. of loaf sugar to every gallon. Boil it till the scum has done rising ; then put it into a tub, and when nearly cold put in the peelings of a lemon and a Seville orange to each gallon, with a little yeast. Let it stand three or four days to work ; then put it into a cask with the oranges and lemons. Stop it closely, and let it stand three mouths; then bottle it off, and put a lump of sugar into each bottle. COMB. We will only observe upon this