CAE CAE [ 203 ] and the rasped peel of a lemon; work this paste a little till you have put all the butter into it. Melt a little butter in a stewpan and skim it well; pour a little into each mould and then drain it, leaving, however, a drop at the bottom, to facilitate the removal of the cake. Sift some ashes over a baking-sheet, put the small moulds into it, and then put the paste into each of them, about half the depth, to give it room to rise. Bake them in a moderate oven. When done turn them out on a clean sheet of paper, and put them again into the oven for a few minutes. By changing the form of the mould you produce a dish of a different appear- ance ; and by occasionally emptying the inside with the point of a knife, and putting into the cavity either cream or sweetmeats, you make what is called stuffed Magdalen cakes. CAKE, MAUDLIN. See Cake, Magdalen. CAKE, MOLASSES. On a bread-making day, when the wheat-bread has risen perfectly light, and is cracked on the surface, take as much of the dough as will fill a quart bowl, and place it in a broad pan. Cut up I lb. of fresh butter, and set it over the fire to warm and soften, but do not let it melt to an oil. When quite soft mix with it \ pint of West India molasses, a small table-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and the finely-grated yellow rind of a large orange or lemon, adding also the juice. Have ready 3 well-beaten eggs, and add them gradually to a mixture. It must form a lump of soft dough, but not too thin to knead with your hands. Knead it well on a pasteboard for a quarter of an hour. Butter some tin pans; put an equal portion of the dough into each; cover them, and set them in a warm, but not hot place for a quarter of an hour before baking; then bake the cakes well. Instead of small pans you may bake the whole of the dough in one large one. This cake should be eaten the day it is baked, fresh, but not warm. All sweet cakes in which yeast is an ingredient are best and most wholesome when fresh, as the next day they become hard, dry, and comparatively heavy. CAKE, MONTROSE. Of dried and sifted flour, pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and of fresh butter, 1 lb. each will be required ; also 12 well- beaten eggs, f lb. of cleaned and dried currants. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar; add the eggs by degrees, and then the flour and cur- rants, with 2 table-spoonsful of brandy, 1 table- spoonful of rose water, and half a grated nutmeg. Beat all well together for twenty or thirty mi- nutes, when it is to be put in small buttered tins, half filling them, and baking them in a quick oven. The currants may be omitted. CAKE, NUNS'. Take 4 lbs. of very fine flour, and mix with it 3 lbs. of double-refined sugar, finely beaten and sifted; dry them by the fire till your other materials are prepared; take 4 lbs. of butter, beat it in your hands till it is very soft, like cream. Beat 34 eggs, leave out 16 whites, and take out the treads of all; beat the eggs and butter together till it appears like butter, pour in 4 or 5 spoonsful of rose or orange-flower water, and beat it again; then take your flour and sugar, with 6 ozs. of caraway seeds; strew it in by degrees, beating it up all the while, for two hours together; put in as much tincture of cinnamon or amber- gris as you please ; butter your hoop, and let it stand three hours in a moderate oven. CAKE, OATMEAL. One only should be made at a time, as the mixture dries quickly. Put two or three handsful of meal into a bowl and moisten it with water merely sufficient to form it into a cake; knead it out round and round with the hands upon a pasteboard, strew- ing meal under and over it (it may be made as thin as a wafer, or thicker, according to taste), and put it on a hot iron plate, called a griddle. Bake it till it is a light brown on the under side ; then take it off, and toast that side before the fire which was uppermost on the griddle. The toaster is such as is commonly used for heating smoothing-irons, having a back to sup port the cake. To make these cakes soft they must not be toasted before the fire, but both sides done quickly on the griddle. CAKE, OXFORD. Mix i table-spoonful of salt with I peck of flour, ^ oz. of cinnamon, \ oz. of nutmeg, 1 drachm of cloves, and as much mace, all finely beaten and sifted with the salt. Add f lb. of sugar, and work well, but gradually, l\\h. of fresh butter into the flour. It will take three quarters of an hour in work- ing up. Then put in 1 quart of cream, 1 pint of ale-yeast, 1 gill of mountain wine, and 3 grains of ambergris, dissolved in the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs, with 1 gill of rose water. Mix the whole with the flour, and knead it into a paste; lay this some time before the fire, then put in 1 lb. of stoned and minced raisins and 3 lbs. of cui-rants, and put the cake into a gentle oven for three hours. When done frost the top with rose water and the white of an egg beaten together; sift over it plenty of fine sugar, and set it in the oven to dry. CAKE, PARISIAN. Take H lb. of finely- sifted flour; make a sponge; then add 4 drachms of fine salt, 2 ozs. of powdered sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, IJlb. of fine butter, and a glass of cream. Mix the whole well together, spread it out thin, and strew it over with vanilla chopped very small; then mix the whole well together again, after which mould your cake. Finish Avith paper bands, &c.,the same as for all other cakes, and ornament it according to your own fancy;