FIS FIS [ 501 ] put in a piece of butter, and leave them for a quarter of an hour; moisten tliera with fish broth, and let them boil gently for an hour; keep the pan closely covered. This will afford a very nourishing broth. FISH CROQUETTES. Take dressed fish of any kind, separate it from the bones, mince it with a little seasoning, an egg beaten with a tea-spoonful of flour, and one of milk; roll it into balls; brush the outside with egg, and dredge well with bread crumbs ; fry them of a nice colour. The bones, heads, and tails, with an onion, an anchovy, and a pint of water, stewed together, will make the gravy. Lobsters make delicate croquettes, in which case the shell should be broken and boiled down for the gravy. FISH CURRY is invariably made with a plain smooth sauce, either dark or yellow, so that the fish may be fried brown or white, with force balls, fresh or pickled oysters, or auy other shell fish. If it is for a principal dish it looks better to be served with a few slices or junks of fish in it; but this the cook can regulate, as the dressing is the same. The rice may be dished as a deep border, and for variety may be some- times washed over with yolks of eggs, but real curry eaters will not relish it. Should it be so dished a napkin must be dressed on a larger dish, and the curry dish put in it. If the napkin is puffed up nicely it looks handsome, as any- thing helped from the edges of a dish is apt to fall over and soil the cloth. FISH CURRY PIE. The curry ought always to be prepared for pies and cooled, or it is much better if dressed the day before, or any left curry will answer better than one newly made. Put it into a nice puff paste covered with a thin cover, set round closely with long leaves, with the points upwards, and a deep border round, with leaves falling down from the top. A pastry formed in this way is very handsome. Plain boiled rice and curry sauce, or curried rice, must be served with it. FISH CUTLETS. Take any fish previously dressed, cut it in pieces, and mix with a little good stock, and any fish sauce which may have been left from table; spread it on a flat dish; brush it with egg, and sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs; cut it out in cutlets, and fry brown. FISH, ENTR]&E OF. Rub the inside of a mould with fresh butter, strew grated Parmesan cheese over the bottom about an inch thick, and put a layer of boiled macaroni of the same thickness, and upon that fish of whatever sort you please, boned, cut into pieces, and strewed with herbs, such as parsley, thyme, and shallots, chopped very finely, a little pounded spices and Cayenne pepper, then a layer of macaroni and Parmesan cheese. Put it into a moderate oven, and let it bake one hour ; then carefully turn it out of the mould into a dish, and serve it to table with a little good cullis round it. FISH, FAT FOR FRYING. Carefully pick 10 lbs. of beef suet. When ready put it into an iron kettle to melt; as soon as it is melted add 5 lbs. of fresh butter and 3 lbs. of hog's lard. The moment the whole is in a boiling state throw in two turnips, four carrots, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of parsley, six shallots, a small bit of thyme, two bay leaves, and a little sweet basil. Let the herbs and roots fry till they are fried up. Strain the melted fat through a sieve, and when nearly cold stir in some bay salt and some whole pepper, and put it into jars for use. The oftener this grease is used the better it becomes. To fry fish nicely the frying-pan should always be full, and the fat strained into the jar the moment the process of frying is concluded. FISH FILLETS. Take any white fish, bone, split, and cut it into handsome fillets, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them ; make a fine forcemeat of lobsters or shrimps, lay it thickly on the fillets, roll them up, and tie or skewer them; put them into a fish gravy, and bake them in an oven. When done thicken the gravy, and serve up the fish in it. FISH, FLAT (Au Gratin). Cleanse, wash, and dry the fish; then melt some good butter, and put it into the dish which you intend for table, adding parsley, leeks, mushrooms (all chopped finely), salt, and pepper. Place the fish on these ingredients, and strew them again with the same, adding half a glass of white wine; cover the dish, and put it in an oven. When they are done serve with a thick sauce. They may also be breaded, and browned in the oven or by a salamander. FiSH FORCEMEAT. Take 2 ozs. of tur- bot, soles, lobsters, shrimps, and oysters, free from skin, as much of fresh butter, 1 oz. of bread crumbs, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, a little shallot, gi'ated lemon-peel, and parsley minced finely; pound the whole together, and, when thoroughly mixed and smooth, season with salt and Cayenne ; then break in the yolk and white of one egg, rub them well together, and it will be ready for use. Oysters parboiled and minced finely, with an anchovy, may also be added. FISH, FRICASSEED. Salt fish that has been boiled and left until cold is an excellent dish when warmed. Break it into flakes, and put them into a pan with a sauce made thus :— Beat boiled parsnips in a mortar, then add a cup of cream, a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a little white pepper, and half a tea- spoonful of mustard, all simmered together.