[ l<f2 1 BOU BOU rloil td a certain extent; and the art of making up a Frencli bouquet is to be lea-ned chieHy by practice, and a careful study of the leading points. It is never necessary to stick in flowers at the surface, unless it liappens, indeed, that by some oversight or other they have been for gotten; for when working according to the French principle, the person constructing the bouquet can always make sure of what he is about. If, however, it be found desirable to put in flowers at the surface, after the bouquet is completed, that can be done by an instrument made for the purpose. There is another advantage worth pointing out in connection with the string, that is, tiie facility for working in a little damp moss between the stallcs, when it is desirable to pro- long the freshness and beauty of the flowers. But, apart from this consideration, moss may be sometimes used for the purpose of filling up, in order to obviate any undue bending of the stalks, especially in large bouquets, but in tliis case it is, of course, only used below the flowers. Tlie outer part of bouquets is generally formed of fern leaves, but sometimes twigs of acacia, hemlock spruce, myrtle, and similar plants are also used, though rarely; for, in fact, the flowers do not require anything to keep them in their places in addition to the string with which they ai'e worked together. No bouquet is ever seec without a sheet of clean white paper round it. Very often the freshest and prettiest flowers must be passed by, simply because their stalks are much too short for the purpose of a bouquet. But the Parisian flower-dealers surmount all obstacles of this kind; for if their flowers have no stalks of their own, they are provided with artificial ones, which answer the end desired just as well. Indeed, it is astonishing to see with what scanty materials a flower-girl will construct a bouquet in a veiy short time. If her flowers have stalks, good and well; if not, it is all the same. In beginning to make her bouquets, the French flower-girl provides herself with a bundle of what she calls Spanish rushes, a species of juncus, remarkable for its close tissues, a circumstance which imparts to it much strength when dried. It is but little thicker than a common knitting wire, but as stiff and tough as a dry osier twig; of the same thickness, or, perhaps, thicker. These rushes are said to be imported from Si)ain, and the flower-girl has to purchase them at so much a pound. Thus provided, she sits down to her table, on which are placed the flowers according to "their kind, also several parcels of fine string of difl'erent lengths, and a small basin of water. The flowers at present before her, it must be recollected, have but very short stalks, and in most cases no stalk at all. She has taken up one ; it is a mere fragment broken from a panicle of lilac, at the same time she has doubled one of the yellow rushes. The flower is placed at the point of doubling, and with a thread, secured in such a way as to keep it from slipping off. The thread, in short, is passed under the loop formed by the doubling of the rush, which in this way explains itself. Two or three turns of the thread are sufficient till the point of connection between the flower and the rush is covered with a tuft of green mosses, the heads of which are brought up to the first or second blossoms, when several moi-e turns of the thread are given, ending towards the bottom of the stalk formed by the doubled rush, where it is tied. Here we have a bouquet in miniature ; and the flower-girl, with well- practised fingers, has completed it, dipped it in water, and laid it down in one-third of the time taken to describe the operation. While she is going on with others in the same way, suppose we make an acquisition of the one just made, and examine it a little. In the first place it is very neat; a small head of pale lilac, and a high necklace of deep green moss, the indi- viduals of which are themselves models of sym- metry. It is neatly and securely tied, and the stalk is about ten inches long. It has been dipped in the water evidently to moisten the moss, in order to keep the blossoms all fresh; while the moss itself prevents the thread from pressing too tightly on the soft, short stem of the lilac. But now the flower-girl has already prepared more than a dozen of other flowers of different sorts and colours in the same manner, and she proceeds to make up her bouquet with them, as she would do with so many flowers having natural stalks, lacing them together until they are all used one after another. When the bouquet is completed, you would never suppose, to look at it, that the flowers of which it is composed are only mere fragments tied together, or that the entire flowers have only stalks two or three inches long. Yet, here we have a beau- tiful bouquet, eight or ten inches in diameter, and with a handle no thicker than one's thumb, a feature of no inconsiderable importance in hand bouquet? of any size; for where the flowers have all their own stalks the entire length, it is difficult to prevent the handle from being inconveniently bulky. Of course, when there are flowers with suitable stalks, in point of length, the rushes are not used; though it will sometimes happen that the stalks are too thick or clumsy, and in that case they are broken off at the lower part, and rushes tied to the flowers. But the principal use of these auxiliaries is to form stalks to such flowers as have no stalks, or the stalks of which are too soft or too short. In this way, if the flowers ara i