[ 337 ] CAR CAR little salt and i pint of wine; but after the carp is put into the sauce let it not be done too much. CARP, BROILED. Clean your carp, cut off the tail and fins ; put into the body a piece of butter worked up with sweet herbs; sew up the opening, and make some notches on both sides about i inch deep, rub it with a piece of fresh butter, and cover it all over with crumbs of bread and parsley chopped very fine. Broil it over a gentle fire, and sei-ve with whatever sauce you think best. CARP, BROILED (with Caper Sauce). Having scalded and drawn one or more carp, let them soak on a dish with a mixture of salt, pepper, and oil; then take them out, and broil by a moderate fire. When done serve with caper sauce. CARP A LA CHAMBORD. Clean, scale, and wash a fine carp; skin it and lard it all over with small pieces of bacon, tie it together by the head and tail, put it into a fish-kettle, with a rich or maigre marinade, and let it boil until the bacon is coloured. Dish your carp, and garnish with forcemeat balls, veal sweet- breads, crayfish, toasted bread, artichoke bot- toms, boiled with the cai-p. Reduce the sauce made with the liquor in which the carp has boiled, add two spoonsful of Spanish sauce, then pour it over your fish. CARP AU COMMISSAIRE. Scale, clean, and take out the gills, and skin a fine carp ; lard it all over with small pieces of bacon. Make a farce of sweetbreads, truffles, fat livers, bacon with chicken, or any other poultry. Cut up the whole into small dice, stuff your carp, and sew up the opening fast. Put into a stew- pan 2 slices of bacon, and 2 slices of veal; wrap your carp in a sheet of paper, and put it into the stewpan on the slices of bacon and veal, and cover your carp with 2 more slices of veal. Let the whole sweat over a gentle fire, and when the veal begins to colour, pour into the stewpan a bottle of Burgundy and a pint of rich bouillon, salt, pepper, tarragon. Let the whole boil slowly for three hours. When the carp is done serve it upon a dish over hot water. Strain the sauce through a sieve, reduce it to a proper consist- ence, and pour it boiling over your fish. It is usually glazed with veal gravy, consomme, reduced to a good jelly, and of a fine, clear, golden colour. Garnish your dish with cray- fish, sweetbreads, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms, or any other garniture the season may afibrd. CARP A LA DAUBE. Scale and clean a fine carp : if it is old it must be skinned. Lard it, and put it into a fish-kettle with some rich bouillon, 1 pint of Champagne, salt, pepper, coriander, and the-juice of a lemon. Let it boil till the sauce is reduced to a proper con- sistence. Serve it hot. CARP, ENTR£E of. Take a fine caj-p, clean and scale it; chop up some parsley, scal- lion, shallots, tarragon, and other fine herbs ; work in a piece of butter, and when the whole is well mixed together, put it into the body of the carp. Put it into a vessel sufficiently long to let it lay at full length. You must, be- fore you put your carp into your vessel, line the latter with a layer of onions cut in slices, and 2 cloves of garlic, a little Seville orange-peel, salt, pepper. Add 1 pint of wine, or 2 pints, according to the size of your fish. Add 1 or 2 glasses of fish bouillon, or, in case you have not any rea3y, you may substitute boiling water. Cook it over a slow fire for two or thi-ee hours. When it is sufficiently done take it out, and place it on a dish. Strain the sauce through a sieve, and if it is too thin reduce it, then pour it over your fish. CARP, FARCE OF. Take the flesh of two carps, which should be chopped, pounded, and rubbed through a sieve. Soak some crumbs of bread in some good milk; have a few mush- rooms and a little parsley chopped fine. Set the herbs to sweat in a little butter over a slow fire; then let them cool in a hair sieve. Next put the bread, which has been soaked and squeezed properly, with the flesh of the carp, that has been rubbed through a tammy, into a mortar, with a lump of butter of about the same bulk as the flesh of the carp, and season with pepper, salt, allspice, the whites of 3 or 4 eggs, and eggs' whites and yolks together. Farces with butter require more eggs than those with udder. Yet before you put more than three you must try to roll some of the farce in a little flour, and to poach it in boiling water. You then taste, and add to the seasoning if required. When completely done rub it through a sieve, and let it cool in the larder, and use it when you have occasion. This farce is used for petits pates of carp. CARP, FARCE OF (Baked). Take a fine carp, scale and empty it; then detach one side of the fillet without injuring the head. Take this flesh and that of another carp of a smaller size, and make a farce in the following manner:—Take the crumb of two penny loaves, soak it in cream or milk, then squeeze it, and put it into a mortar with an equal quantity of the flesh of the carp, nearly as much fresh butter, a little chopped parsley, and a few mushrooms fried in a little butter, salt, pepper, and spice. When all these ingredients have been pounded in a mortar add a couple of eggs, and continue pounding for a long time; then take a little, and throw it into boiling water, and taste. If it be too delicate—which means too thin—add