EAR C 44Q 3 EAR 8 G ah', "xhich take place by the concussion of any elastic body, first strike the external ear; hence the sound agitates the tympanum. But that the vibrations may not become too violent, and the tympanum may not burst, as is to be appre- hended from a very loud and near sound, the ear is provided with a siphon, which anatomists call the Eustachian tube, and through which the air collected on the tympanum again escapes. But the vibration of the tympanum is also com- municated through the four little bones of the ear ; it is forwarded through what is called the stapes, or stirrup, to the vestibule, or the first entrance, and through the membrane of the fenestra rotunda as far as the innermost cavity of the ear, which resembles the shell of a snail, and is therefore called cochlea. The whole labyrinth of the ear is filled with a small quan- tity of fluid, which fluid gently agitates the substance of the auditory nerve, in consequence of which sound is communicated to the brain. The fluid contained in the labyrinth of the ear obviously serves the purpose of preventing the soft, pappy substance of the auditory nerve from being too violently agitated. The use of the cochlea, which is very arti- ficially constructed, cannot be easily deter- mined; it is probably rather designed for the more accurate dis''nction of the varieties of tones than for the perception of sounds in general, for we may consider the delicate nerves that run along the spiral line of this cochlea as a number of cords growing progressively shorter, and which in a manner repeat the external vibrations of the air in the internal parts of the ear. This repetition appears to be performed according to a geometrical scale, since the same vibrations of the air take place here in a reduced proportion. Hence sounds which are too loud and penetrating offend our ears, because they shake the auditory nerves too quickly and violently, so that these may even be lacerated and produce deafness ; but this is not the case when the tympanum is broken by accident. Some persons who are defective in this sense are obliged to make use of ear trumpets, and to turn their ear to the quarter whence the sound proceeds, to place the hand at the side of the ear, to open their mouth, or use some other assistant means. All this is done with a view to supply the motion of the ears, of which we have been deprived by habits contrary to the laws of nature: these motions the lower animals perform by pointing their ears in the direction from which the sound proceeds. In this manner the ear receives a greater proportion of sound, and many divisions of it which might otherwise escape are conveyed to the nerves. By means of the teeth and other bones of the head sounds may be conducted to the auditory nerves so as to communicate the ne- cessary vibrations to the internal ear, though we can hear more easily and distinctly when the sound comes through the organ itself. There is, however, a method of communicating sounds to the deaf with better success than by the common ear trumpets, which instruments at[ length entirely destroy that sense. Tliis is effected by means of a cylindrical rod or tube of ivor}', or any similarly hard substance. The tube may be from twelve to twenty-four inches long, and from a quarter to half an inch in diameter ; if it be made hollow throughout, the part which is placed in the mouth between the front teeth ought to have a much smaller aperture than the other extremity. This tube is well calculated to assist those deaf persons who wish to enjoy the music of a harp, harpsi- chord, or other instrument. We once knew a gentleman who wac quite deaf, but with the assistance of a cylinder such as we have described was enabled to hear the softest notes distinctly, and to enjoy all the pleasures of music. It is a false assertion that there is always a hole in the tympanum, for it is owing to the double opening of the Eustachian tube that many jugglers can cause the liquor they drink to flow out of the ear, in the same manner as they discharge the smoke of tobacco through the nose and ears. Besides the tube we have described there are various other instruments for aiding defective hearing. There are ear cornets, so called from having the form of the French horn adapted to the ears, held in their places by slender springs, and so coverable with the hair as to be scarcely observed. Conversation tubes are long elastic tubes of Iiidia rubber, with a mouth-piece for the speaker, and a tip to apply wiUiin the ear of the listener. Table sonifers are %vide-mouthed instruments placed upon a table near, and com- municating by an elastic tube with the ear of, the deaf person, and, when the mouth of the sonifer is turned towards the part of the room where conversation is going on, enabling the deaf person to hear it. Ear conchs are in imitation of the outer part of the ear, but of an enlarged size, and helping to collect the vibra- tions causing sound. We believe that all in- struments intended to aid defective hearing would be much more effective if the part touching the ear inclosed it instead of going within it. Before leaving this subject let us observe, that endeavouring to excuse the use of ear-rinys on the plea that piercing the ear-lobe strengthens the eyes is only adopting an absurd defence for a relic of barbarism. EARS, CALF'S : To Dkess. Having stewed