GAM [ 540 ] GAM thence are accounted delicious eating. In Sep- tember they may be seen off the downs of Berk- shire, Wiltshire, and Dorsetshire; but their winter retreat is unknown. In choosing plovers observe the vent, which is hard when the bird is fat, and the contrary when the bird is lean. If stale the feet are dry, and in other respects the same rules will apply to them as to other fowl. Plovers will keep a long time. Woodcocks and Sntpes. If they are fat and in good condition they will feel firm and thick, the vent will be plump and hard, and a vein of fat may be traced along the breast; but the lean bird will be the reverse, and Us veiit in particular will be ihin. When lately killed the feet will be supple, and the head and throat clean ; but the contrary signs show that the bird is stale. GAME : To Keep. Game may often be made fit for eating when it seems spoiled by nicely cleaning it, and washing it with vinegar and water. If you think birds will not keep draw, crop and pick them ; then wash in two or three waters, and rub them with salt. Have in readiness a large saucejian of boiling water, and plunge them in one by one, drawing them up and down by the legs so that the water may pass through them; let them stay in five or six minutes, and then hang them up in a cold place. When they are com- pletely drained well salt and pepper the insides, and thoroughly wash them before roasting. Pieces of charcoal put about birds and meat will preserve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. GAME : To Pot. Pluck and draw out the trails of six woodcocks, skewer the bills through the thighs, put the legs within each other, and feed upon the breasts; season with mace, pepper, and salt; put them into a deep pot with 1 lb. of butter over them, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done lay them on a dish to drain, then put them into the proper pots, cover them with the butter in which they were baked, and lay over them some that is clarified. Snipes may be done in the same way. GAME AMOURETTES. Prepare | lb. of almond paste, and mince very finely 2 lbs. of any sort of game, with half the quantity of finely chopped marrow or kidney fat; mix it well together with a little rich cream, and season with mace, allspice, zest, lemon juice, nutmeg, and salt. Cut two or three slices of stale bread to fit the dish they are to be served in, and steep the bread in a rich salmis or civet, with port wine and jelly; heap the meat upon sip- pets, and either leave them rough, powder with fine crumbs seasoned with truffle and mush- room, and baste it with butter, or cover with yolk of egg and butter. Have any kind of spinal maiTow prepared, and when the amouretteg are dressed lay it over, press in, or bind them with it. If there is no spinal marrow bind them with strings of rich cream paste made with sugar and white of egg. GAME, CHAUD FROID OF. Roast six partridges, remove all the skin, trim, dry them well, and put them into a saucepan. Put into another saucepan the remains and bones of the birds, a glass of Rhenish wine, one of white Burgundy, a bay leaf, and five or six shallots: set it over a moderately heated stove, and when half reduced add a ladlefnl of veal blond. As soon as it boils set it on the corner of the stove for about an hour, skim it carefully, and then strain through a napkin into another saucepan, with the addition of two ladlesful of clarified Espagnole. When it boils set it as before on the corner of the stove ; in half an hour's time skim, and replace it over the stove, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon; or, if you wish it exceedingly clear, stir it at intervals only, putting in each time a dessert- spoonful of aspic jelly. When reduced to the proper consistence strain it again into a small saucepan, and stir it incessantly with a sauce ladle, that it may cool smootlily. When no more than lukewarm pour a quarter of it on the partridges, shaking the saucepan lightly, and then place it on ice for half an hour. At the end of that time lay the partridge legs very closely en couronne, on these lay the wings, then three breasts, over these two more breasts, and on the top of the whole a fine truffle dressed in wine, and a large well • blanched cock's comb; then beat up the remainder of the sauce with a spoon, and if it be too thick set it on the fire an instant, but if not sufficiently so place it on ice : when of the proper consistence It quits the spoon with difficulty. Remove the truffle and cock's comb, cover the chaudfroid carefully with the sauce, and then replace them. Garnish the dish with a border of roots or aspic jelly. GAME, ESSENCE OF. Take four rabbits, four partridges, two quasis of veal, and 2 lbs. of steaks, and put them into a stewpan with a bottle of white wine; boil until the whole is entirely reduced to a jelly; then add to it broth and consomme (equal quantities of each), eight carrots, ten onions, three cloves, and a little thyme and basil; let the whole boil very gently until the meat is quite done; then strain it through a napkin. No salt need be put into it, as the broth and consomme are sufficiently seasoned to flavour the essence of game. GAME, FARCE FOR. Chop some beef marrow and streaked bacon, and pound them well; then take the livers of your game, and pound thpm also with the marrow; add salt,