DYE DYE I 442 ] times added, though they do not materially con- tribute to the colour. There are three kinds of scarlet, namely, that dyed with kernies, with cochineal, and with gum lac. The first of these, called Venetian scarlet, is the most permanent, hut the least bright. It is also apt to be less spotted than the others ; but, on account of the difBculty of procuring the insects which afford the colour, it is very seldom if ever used in this country. The second kind of scarlet, namely, that dyed with cocJiineal, is less permanent than the Vene- tian scarlet, though the drug is procured at a more reasonable price. It is, however, very difficult to dye the true cochineal scarlet. The success of this operation equally depends upon the choice of the material, the water employed, and the method of preparing a solution of tin, ■which is the only ingredient by which that delicate colour can be produced. To 8 ozs. of spirit of nitre an equal quantity of river water is to be added. In this mixture are to be gradually dissolved ^ oz. of the purest and whitest sal ammoniac, and drachms of puri- fied saltpetre. An ounce of tin, reduced to grains by being dropped into cold water while melting, is next to be added drop by drop to the liquor thus prepared, the first being perfectly dissolved before a second is introduced. The solution resembles that of gold, and if fine tin be em- ployed will be perfectly transparent, without any dust or sediment. With this liquor are to be mixed such proportions of cochineal as may be thought proper, and the stuffs dyed in the colour will acquire a most beautiful scarlet. The scarlet produced by gum lac, though not 80 bright as cochineal, is more permanent. The best lac is that which is of a blackish brown colour on the outside, and white within. The process of pi-eparing this colour is very diffi- cult; but the best method, we believe, is that of previously mixing the gum with comfrey or other mucilaginous roots. Tbese should be diied, finely pulverised, afterwards boiled for fifteen minutes in the proportion of half a drachm to a quart of water, then strained through a linen cloth while hot, poured upon levigated gum lac, and passed through a hair sieve, The whole is then digested i\\ a modei'ate heat for twelve hours, and the gum remaining at the bottom should be stiired seven or eight times. The liquor thus impregnated with a fine crimson colour is afterwards poured into a vessel suffi- ciently capacious to hold four times the quantity, and filled up with cold water. On adding a small proportion of a strong solution of alum the coloured mucilage subsides, and should any tinge remain in the liquor it may be precipitated by gradual additions of alum till it becomes perfectly colourless. As soon as the crimson mu- cilage has entirely subsided the clear water must be carefully decanted, the remainder filtered, and the fluid parts suffered to evaporate. If the whole of the colour should not be extracted by the first operation it ought to be repeated till the residuum changes to a pale straw colour. In order to dye scarlet with this extract of gum lac the requisite proportion of the latter, dried and pulverised, is to be put into an earthen or block-tin vessel, a little hot water poured upon it, and when it is well moistened a proper quantity of the composition added, the whole being stirred with a glass pestle. By this means the powder, which before was of a dark, dusky purple, acquires an exceedingly bright scarlet colour. A solution of the crystals of tartar is then to be poured into the liquor, and, as soon as it begins to boil, the cloth is to be re- peatedly immersed in it,according to the common method. The remainder of the operation is to be performed in the same manner as if cochineal had been employed. Crimson is the colour produced by cochineal, with alum and tartar only, without any solution of tin. For this dye 2J ozs. of alum, with IJoz. of white tartar, are to be taken for every pound of wool, and, being put into a cauldron with a proper quantity of water, the solution should boil before the stuff is dipped. The wool is then immersed in the boiling liquor, where it continues two hours, after which it is to be taken out, wrung gently, rinsed in water, and put into a bag. A fresh liquor is next pre- pared for the dye, in which 1 oz. of finely powdered cochineal is used for every pound of wool. When this decoction boils the stuff is immersed, and managed in the maimer already directed for scarlet. For producing the finest crimson dye, however, the wool is again to be dipped in a weak lixivium, made of equal parts of sal ammoniac and pearl ashes, Tlie preparation of the ingredients for madder BED is always with alum and tartar, the propor- tions of which are by no means ascertained even by dyers. The more general practice is to put 5 ozs. of alum and 1 oz. of red tartar to every pound of worsted, a twelfth part of acid water being like- wise added, and the wool boiled for two hours in this solution, in which worsted is to be kept for a week; but cloth will be sufficiently saturated in four days. A fresh liquor is then prepared for dyeing this wool, and when the water is nearly boiling ^ lb. of the finest madder is to be thrown in for every pound of wool, being carefully stirred and well mixed in the copper previously to immersing the stuff, which is to be kept in the liquor for an hour, during which the latter must not boil, lest it should tarnish the colour. The third primitive colour is ykllow, for