[ 561 ] GLA GLA one used to the job. The expense will he hut trifling to have a person to do it who under- stands it, and the loss may be great if articles of such value are packed up in an improper manner. GLASSWARE. WASHING. Put a suffi- cient quantity of clean cold water into a wooden bowl or tub to cover your glasses with, and take care not to strike them against the side of the bowl, as they are easily broken. Never use any- thing of earthenware to wash glasses in on this account, for if you do but just touch the side of an earthen pan or basin it is almost sure to break the glass. If the glasses have been used with any kind of mixture which sticks hard on, you must carefully rub it off before you turn them down to drain; if you cannot get it off with cold water have some hot to wash them in, but dip them into cold water afterwards, or they will dry too soon, and will look smeary; nor should you let them drain longer than ten or fifteen minutes before you wipe them, for if they do it will be impossible to make them look well, as they will show where the spots of water have dried on. Have two cloths to wipe them with; let the one which is the dirtiest be used just to wipe off the drops of wet with, and the other to finish them with. Keep the cloths which you wipe the glasses with entirely for them, and in wiping them let one end of the cloth be in the left hand, and let it be open, not twisted ; put the foot of the glass into the left hand, and take the other part of the cloth in the right; you will then be able to do the glasses properly without fear of breaking, but let them be veiy lightly handled, particularly the small and thin ones; have the softest cloths to wipe those with, and never let them get too wet, as they are apt in that case to twist and stick round the glass, which will cause you to break them; therefore dry your cloths, or have fresh ones when wanted. Never let the glasses stand about when dirty, but let them be washed and put in their proper places immediately. Decanters. In cleaning decanters the greatest care is necessary both as to what you clean them with, and likewise that you do not break them, as they are very expensive, yet easily broken. Various are the ways of different persons in cleaning them, but you will find it best to have some thick brown paper cut into very small bits, so as to go with ease into the decanters; then cut a few pieces of soap very small, and pour some water milkwarm into the decanters upon the soap and paper, but be very particular not to put it in too hot, as that will crack them ; you may also put a little pearlash in. By well working this about in the decanters it will take off the crust of the wine if it has not been standing a great while, and give the glass a fine polish. When the decanters havo been scratched, and the wine left to stand in them a long time, you will perhaps find it difficult to get off. To effect tlris have a small cane with a bit of sponge tied tightly to one end: this you can easily do with some strong thread if you make a few notches near the end of the cane, that the thread may not slip off. By putting this into the decanter you will be able to remove any crust of the wine, but take care not to have the cane and sponge too large, so as to hui-t the neck of the decanter. Have corks to put into them while cleaning, as the stoppers are apt to stick very hard: this will endanger breaking the decanters, and likewise the stoppers. Let the cane be long enough to reach to the bottom of the decanter ; a strong wire or small iron rod which you can easily bend is very useful, with a bit of sponge or rag tied to the end of it, to rub the crust from the bottom of the decanter with. When the decanters have been properly washed let them be thoroughly dried, par- ticularly if they are not going to be used again for some time, for if they are put away damp with spots of water on them it will be sure to mildew them, which will spoil the look of them for ever after. Let them be turned down to dry in a proper rack for that purpose: if there should not be one turn them down in a jug, but do not put them on their necks without support, for any little thing may iu that case knock them down and break them. The stoppers are liable to stick in the neck of the decanters, which often causes the breaking of both. To prevent this, when the decanters are clean and empty wrap a piece of paper round each stopper before you put it into the neck of the decanter; this will keep the dust out, and prevent it from sticking ; they will then likewise always be ready when wanted, as it too often happens that when they are left out of the decanters they are lost or mismatched. If the decanters have wine in them when put by, you should have some good corks always at hand to put in instead of the stoppers : this will keep the wine much better, and prevent the stoppers sticking in, which they will very soon do if wine be suffered to stand in them. See China and Decanters. GLAUBER'S SALT, so called after an Amsterdam chemist, is a compound of sul- phuric acid and soda, and is called by chemists sulphate of soda. It is in the form of crystals, and has a saline, bitter taste. A common and useful purgative. Its nauseous taste may be in a great degree disguised by the addition of a small quantity of lemon juice or cream of tartar. Dose in crystals, | oz. to 2 ozs. In an effloresced (dried powdered) state it is just equal in efficacy 2 0