CAO CAP [ 229 ] and even beds and cushions are rendered elastic by inflating them. Caoutchouc is used in the manufacture of braces, of some surgical instruments, and of many other articles for which its elasticity renders it adapted. It is also cut by machinery with great rapidity into very fine thread, to which a still greater degree of tenuity is given by stretching it, as it is wound tightly upon bobbins, where it is allowed to remain till its contractile power is lost. This thread is woven into a variety of ornaments and elastic fabrics. Pieces of caoutchouc may be joined together by moistening their edges with a solution of it either in ether or naphtha; or if the pieces are boiled in water until quite soft they may be made to unite by merely pressing tightly to- gether. The well-known macintoshes are made by uniting two webs of cloth together by means of caoutchouc dissolved in naphtha, and pressing them between rollers. Gloves are made at Leicester and Notting- ham' with India-rubber knitted into the wrist; and stockings with the same material at the top, to serve in lieu of garters. In India this ma- terial has been in some cases used as a substi- tute for leather in solaiers' belts and other parts of their accoutrements. About sixteen years ago a method was introduced of employing India- rubber, combined with other materials, as a substitute for corks for bottles. In the first place, fibres of wool are felted or worked into a cylindrical mass. This cylinder is cut up into pieces the proper length for corks, and the corks so made are coated with a thin sheeting or cover of India-rubber. The corks so made are said to close the bottle air-tight, and yet to be removed easily. Another mode of applying this substance in respect to its elastic property is for pavements for stables, lobbies, and halls. The idea of sub- stituting this kind of pavement for that made of stone seems to have arisen from the desira- bility of providing a flexible and yielding foot- ing for horses in the stable. Some of the stables at Woolwich Arsenal are paved in this way; so likewise is the Admiralty Courtyard, and the carriage-entrance court at Windsor Castle. For all such purposes as these the India-rubber is combined with other materials. A project has been started for building boats of cork and India-rubber in such a way that they shall be too light to sink and too elastic to fall to pieces in case of being thrown against a rocky shore. The elasticity of this substance has also caused it to be proposed as a material for the lining of vessels to prevent accidents from gun- shot splinters, and for hammock-nettings and bulwarks to protect the crew from shot. The imperviousness to water — the other principal quality possessed by India-rubber—is rendered available by using a solution of the gum as a varnish or coating to the substance to be protected. When cloth is saturated with a solution of caoutchouc it becomes not only waterproof but aii'-proof, and is then applied for such purposes as air-beds and cushions. Its water-resisting power is that which makes it available for clothing, and for safety-boats, and other like contrivances. For all such purposes as these the gum requires to be brought to a melted state before using; and many recent inventions have had for their object the best mode of effecting this solution. Besides the life boats other forms of vessels have been de- vised, having India-rubber among their com- ponent materials. In 1839 pontoons were made of India-rubber cloth, and floated on the Serpentine, two of them bearing a platform on which forty men stood. In the next following year a boat made of India-rubber cloth was floated on the Neva at St. Petersburg, and another on the Hudson in America, both bearing several persons. The canvass for soldiers' tents in France is sometimes saturated with the solu- tion of this gum, and rick-cloths are occasion- ally so treated in this country. CAPER SAUCE (for Fish). Take some melted butter, into which throw a small bit of glaze ; and when the sauce is in a state of readi- ness throw into it some choice capers, salt, and pepper, and a spoonful of essence of anchovies. CAPER SAUCE (French). Take some capers, cut them small. Put some essence of ham into a small saucepan, with a little pepper; let it boil, then put in the capers; let them boil up two or three times, and pour it into a boat. CAPER SAUCE (for Meat). Take some capers, chop half of them very fine, and put the rest in whole. Then chop some parsley with a little grated bread, and put to it some salt. Put them into butter, melted very smooth, let them boil up, and then pour them into a sauceboat. CAPER SAUCE : To IwrrAXE. Boil some parsley very slowly, to let it become of a bad colour, then cut it up, but do not chop it fine. Put it into melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up, and then serve. CAPERS. Capers are the unopened flower- buds of a low shrub, called Cappai-is spinosa, which grows from the crevices of rocks and walls, and among rubbish in the southern of France, in Italy, and the Levant. In the south of France the caper bush is very common. It grows wild upon the walls of Rome, Sienna, and Florence, and when trained against a wall flourishes even in the neighbourhood of Paris. It is cultivated on a large scale between Mg"*-