[ 250 ] CAT CAT insensible perspiration, by exposing the body to a damp or cold air after having been for some time under the influence of a warmer tempera- ture. It is at first attended with an increased secretion of mucus from the glands and mem- branes of the nose, eyes, throat, windpipe, &c.: hence a defluxion of a thin, acrid humour, which irritates those glands and membranes, occasions some difficulty of breathing through the nose, with a sense of fulness, and, sooner or later, produces all the usual symptoms of a common cold. To prevent a cold. It is not right, in the beginning of a cold, to make the room where you sit warmer than usual, to increase the quan- tity of bed-clothes, to wrap yourself in flannel, or to drink large draughts of piping hot barley- water, boiled up with raisins, figs, liquorice-root, and the like. This is the right way to make the disorder worse. Perhaps there would be hardl}"- such a thing as a bad cold, if people, when they find it coming on, were to keep cool, to avoid wine and strong drinks, and to confine themselves for a short time to a simple diet, as potatoes or other vegetables, with toast and water. We have known instances of heat in the nostrils, difficulty of breathing, with a short, tickling cough, and other symptoms, threatening a violent cold, go off entirely, in consequence of this plan being pursued. We have found the pulse beat from twelve to twenty strokes in a minute less, after a person at the onset of a cold had continued quiet three quarters of an hour in a cold room. It is not only warmth suddenly applied that will throw any part of the body, after it has been starved or benumbed, into violent action, and bring on inflammation; strong liquors will do the same When you come out of a very cold atmosphere you should not at first go into a room that has a fire in it, or, if you cannot avoid that, you should keep for a considerable time at as great a distance as possible, and, above all, refrain, from taking warm or strong liquors when you are cold. This rule is founded upon the same principle as in the case of any part of the body being frost-bitten. If it were brought to the fire it would soon mortify, whereas, if rubbed with snow, no bad consequences follow from it. Hence, if the following rule was strictly ob- served—when the whole body, or any part of it is chilled, bring it to its natural feeling and warmth by degrees—the frequent colds we ex- perience in winter would, in a great measure, be prevented. The application of the flesh-brush to the neck and hands is, with this view, of great use. On the other hand, the practice, after a cold is caught, of making the room the person sits in warmer than usual, increasing the quantity of bed-clothes, wrapping himself up in flannel, and, particularly, drinking a large quantity of barley-water, gruel, or tea, almost boiling hot, by way of diluting, as it is called, and forcing a perspiration—all this will infal- libly make the disorder worse, in the same man- ner as confining inoculated persons in warm rooms would make their smallpox more violent. Symptoms. When a person in cold weather goes into the open air, every time he draws in his breath the cold air passes through his nos- trils and windpipe into the lungs, and,, conse- quently, diminishes the heat of these parts. As long as the person continues in the cold air he feels no bad effects from it, but, as soon as he returns home, he approaches the fire to warm himself, and very often takes some warm and comfortable drink "to keep out the cold," as it is said. The inevitable consequence is, that he will first perceive a glow within his nostrils and breast, as well as over the whole surface of the body. Soon afterwards a disagreeable dryness and huskiness will be felt in the nostrils and breast. By-and-by a short, dry, tickling cough comes on. He feels a shivering, which makes him draw nearer to the fire, but all to no pur- pose; the more he tries to heat himself the more he becomes chilled. All the mischief is here caused by the violent action of the heat; and the complaints, which are thence produced, might, with more propriety, be called heats rather than colds. Cure. In regard to the cure of a common cold it depends on attention to temperature, diet, and medicine. In the early stages of a catarrh rather a cold temperature, at least one not exceeding from 40° to 50°, is the most likely to be salutary. The covering of the body also, both by day and during the night, should be as light as the external temperature will admit of. Put the feet in very hot water. A rigid attention to regimen is not necessary, whenever a slight cold occui's ; but if it increases or continues for any length of time, stimulating food is to be avoided, in particular wine and spirituous liquors; the solid food should be light and easy of digestion, and the liquid cooling, as toast and water, or acidulated soda-water. The best medicine and the most simple upon the first appearance of a cold is the following :— Draughts for colds:—Take of tartar emetic [an- timonium tartarizatum), 4 grains ; of pure cold water, 2 pints. Dissolve the tartar emetic in the water by trituration ; of this solution, from i pmt to i pint may be talcen every five or six hours. Or, take solution of acetate of ammonia, i oz.; camphorated mixture, 1 oz.; solution of tartarised antimony, 18 drops ; syrup of marsh- mallows, 2 drachms. Mix. them as a draught; to be given every four hours. CATCHUP. See Ketchup.