C 179 3 BUR BUR may figure here, Les Charloups, Les Bridaines, Les Boutoirs, and La Maison Rouge. These wines are sparkling and agreeable, preserve a long time their moustilte, become spirituous by age, and always keep well. Chablis is the second cuvee of this vineyard, amongst which are distinguished Le Chapelot, Vauvilion, part of Bouguereau, and La Preusse. Vaulovent, Vossegros, Le Bas du Clos, &c., give agreeable wines when not mixed with those of the lowest crus. Champs and St. Bris give good wines, particularly Les Cuvees de la Poire, de Blamoy, de la Voie Blanche, and des Chaussans. These take an amber colour by age. White Wines of the Third Quality. Vi- vier, Bera, and Hey are agreeable vins ordinaires. Bossy, Serigny, Tissey, Vegannes, Bernoud Die, Tanlay, &c., furnish wines of good flavour, which keep well. Milly, Maligny, Poinchy, Villy, Chiche, Ligny Chatel, Polly, Chemilly, Courgy, &c., furnish vim ordinaires and vins communs, of which some are good. Wines of the Cote d'Or. This department owes its name to a chain of little mountains which reach from Dijon and Chalons, and in the districts of Beaume and Dijon the wines called les vins fins de Haute-Bourgogne are produced. In good seasons these wines unite all the quali- ties of perfect wine. They want no mixture nor preparation to reach the highest degree of per- fection. The operations which in other coun- tries are called soins qui aident la qualite, are hurtful to the wines of the Cote d'Or. They have their peculiar bouquet, which is not brought out under three or four years. The introduction of aromatic or other wine changes them. Even the mixture of two wines of the first class destroys the bouquet, and reduces them to the second class, and even to the third. The red wines join to a beautiful colour much perfume and a deli- cious taste; they are at the same time full-bodied, light, delicate, and spirituous, without being too lieady. The white possess the same qualities. They are mellow, and grown old of an amber colour. 25,000 hectares in the department of the Cote d'Or, and 10,000 in the district of Chalons-sur-Saone, together with 35,000, pro- duce 800,000 hectolitres. The inhabitants con- sume 320,000; the rest is exported. The plants in cultivation are red grapes, Le Noirien and Le Pineau, which last grows in the vineyards which produce the finest wines. Le Gibaudot, Le Melon Noir, and Le Gamme produce the vins ordinaires and vins communs. The white are, Le Chaudenay, which makes the best wine; Le Melon Blanc, Le Narbonne, or Chasselas, and Le Gamine as in red. This last produces only inferior wines. The vineyards are con- sidered in the country as divided into three Cotes: La Cote de Nuits, and some of the district of Dijon; La Cote de Beaume, comprising all the district of Beaume with the exception of the canton of Nuits; and lastly, La Cote Chalonnaise,^ containing all the vineyards of the district of Chalons-sur-Saone. Red Wines of the First Quality. The crus forming this first class are, excepting Le Chambertin, situated in the canton of Nuits, three leagues north-west of Beaume. They are ranked in the following order:—La Romance Conti, in the district of Vosne, which is three quarters of a league from Nuits, and four leagues from Dijon. The wine is remarkable for its fine colour, ai'oma, spirit, and delicious flavour. The real wine is seldom procurable, as the vineyard consists of only 172 ares of ground, producing on an average not more than 10 or 12 pieces or demi- queues. Le Chambertin, two leagues and a half from Dijon, occupies 25 hectares, and produces yearly from 130 to 150 pieces of excellent wine, which joins to a fine colour much seve and rich- ness, a perfect gout and the sweetest bouquet. Le Richebourg differs from the Romanee Conti in being a little more coloured, less fine, and delicate. It is distinguished by a great deal of seve and bouquet. Le Clos Vovjeot, three leagues from Dijon, produces wines very much like the preceding, but more spirituous. The products of different parts of this clos vary in quality. The higher parts give a wine which is very fine and delicate; the lower parts, and those which border upon the road, produce much inferior wines. La Romanee de St. Vivaut, so called as having belonged to a convent of that name, furnishes wines of the same kind as that of the Romanee de Conti, but inferior in quality. The wines of La Tdche are nearly similar to the preceding, perhaps superior, and moreover can be kept a long time. The wine of Le St. Georges at Nuits is much like the Chambertin. It is, however, inferior in quality ; it has more colour, flavour, body, and even richness than those we have cited, but they are preferred for their beauty and flavour. Gorton d'Aloxe, canton of Beaume. Its wine is of the same kind as that of St. Georges. It has a little more richness, but is less palatable; it is very highly coloured, full-bodied, and strong, keeps a long time, and bears sea voyage well, acquiring by age much seve and bouquet. Besides these celebrated crus there are other vineyards the wines of which approach the quality of the above; namely, Le Clos de Premeau, Le Porets at Nuits; Le Musigny, Les Bonnes Mares, and Les Veroilles at Chambolle; Le Clos du Tart and Le Clos-a-la- Roche at Morey; Le Clos Morjot and La Matroie, Le Clos St. Jean at Cliassagne ; La Perriere at Fixin. These being little kno\vn sell for less, although, comparable in quality. The wines which bear exportation by sea the best are.