FIS [ 499 ] PIS To fry or broil fish properly, after it is well cleaned and washed it should be wrapped in a nice soft cloth, and when perfectly dry wetted with egg, and sprinkled all over with very fine bread crumbs a second time; then, having on the fire a thick-bottomed frying-pan with plenty of lard or dripping boiling hot, put the fish into it, and let it fry tolerably quickly till it is done, and of a nice brown yellow. If it is done before it has obtained a nice brown colour the pan should be drawn to the side of the firo, the fish carefully taken up, and placed either upon a sieve turned upwards, or on the under side of a dish, and placed before the fire to drain and finish browning. If wanted particularly nice a sheet of writing paper must be put to receive the fish. Fish fried in oil obtains a much finer colour than when done in lard or dripping. Butter should never be used, as it gives a bad colour. Garnish your dish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or with fried parsley. When fish is to be broiled it must be seasoned, floured, and done on a very clean gridiron, which, when hot, should be rubbed over with suet to hinder the fish fi'om sticking. It must be broiled over a very clear fire to prevent its tasting smoky, and great care must be taken not to scorch it. FISH: To Bake. All white fish may be seasoned whole as above, nicked, larded with eel, oysters, parsley, lemon-peel, and farced (the farces must be cooked) with fish, veal, or vegetables, and baked in stock and wine, or butter, basting them continually. FISH : To Boil in Braise Maigke. Take a kettle of a sufiicient size, put into it a bit of butter, with a little vegetable soup, a little thyme, sweet basil, garlic, parsley, scallions, cloves, some slices of onions and carrots, salt, pepper, and sufiicient white wine; tie the head of the fish up properly, or any other part, and put it into the kettle with these ingredients ; take care that it does not swim, put it upon a slow fire, and cover it with a buttered paper, taking care to wet or baste it from time to time with its own sauce. Taste if it is properly seasoned. When the fish is sufficiently done take part of the sauce, run it through a gauze search, and reduce it to a jelly to glaze the fish. FISH : To Carve. In helping fish take care not to break the flakes, which in cod and salmon are particularly large, and make a fine appear- ance. A fish knife, therefore, divides it best, because it is not sharp. Help some of the roe, melt, or liver to each person. The heads of carp, part of those of cod and salmon, also cod's sounds, and the fins of turbot, being by many deemed great niceties, must be distributed accordingly. Cod's Head and Shodldees. These should be cut with a large spoon, or rather, a fish trow.^1. The parts about the backbone or shoulders arc the firmest and most esteemed. Take a piece off quite to the bone, from abed, inserting the spoon or trowel at a c, and with each slice give a piece of the sound that lines the fish be- neath the backbone, the meat of which is thinner and somewhat darker than the body. To get at this pass a spoon in the direction d f. Eels. These are cut into pieces through the bone, and the thickest parts are reckoned tho best. Lobsters. They are seldom sent to table whole, and therefore nothing more need be said than that the tail is the prime part, and next to that the claws. Mackerel. Nothing more is requisite than to strip the fish down from the tail to the gills in the direction a b c, avoiding the meat about the latter, as being blackish and ill tasted. It is common to ask whether a preference is given to a hard or soft roe. Salmon. One part of a salmon is much fatter and richer than the other. It is common, therefore, to give to those who like both a thin slice of each. For the one cut it out of the belly part in the direction a b, which is the fattest; and for those who prefer the more fleshy cut it from the back in the line c d. Salmon with small heads and thick in the neck are the best