COS COS [ 339 ] and it has the farther advautago of being quite hmoxious. As the habitual use of the paints usually sold for the toilet withers and dries up the skin ladies should previously saturate the pores of the skin with some unctuous substance, which will prevent it from contracting and peeling off, or else being covered with blotches. One of the best articles for this purpose is cold cream, made either with purified hog's lard beaten up with rose water, or else with a thin ointment, made in the sand bath, of almond oil and spermaceti, and when cold beaten up with rose water. The greatest enemy to a painted face is per- spiration, and the least touch of the pocket handkerchief produces sad confusion on cheeks displaying, but an instant before, artificial hues of youth and beauty. Hence has, no doubt, arisen the " golden rule " that " it is ill-bred to mop in company;" that, however strongly the perspiration may trickle from your head, face, and beard, you are not to relieve yourself from the inconvenience by the use of your pocket handkerchief, but rather let the unseemly stream meander down your cheeks, finding its way over your rouge, if you have any, without very much damage to the roses and lilies of your complexion. Milk of Eoses. Take prepared kali, 6 grains; oil of almonds, loz.; essence of ber- gamot, 2 drachms ; rose water, 3 ozs.; orange- flower water, 2 drachms : mix. Orange Pommade. Hog's lard, 1 lb.; oil of palms, 8 ozs.; essence of neroli, loz. Peael Powder. Magisteryof bismuth, French chalk scraped finely by Dutch rushes, of each equal parts. Pommade Divine. Beef marrow, 1 lb. 8 ozs.; cinnamon, l^oz.; storax, calamine, benzoin, and Florentine orris, of each 1 oz.; cloves and nutmegs, of each 1 drachm. Let them simmer together for five minutes ; then strain for use. Roll Pomatum. Suet, 5 lbs.; white wax, 8 ozs.; spermaceti, 2 ozs.; oil of lavender and essence of bergamot, each ^ oz. Rouge. There is a Brazil wood of a fine golden red, called Pernambouc Brazil wood. Take 9 ozs. of this wood, cut it into little bits, and pound them well in a very clean iron mortar with a very heavy pestle, so as to bruise the wood almost to a pulp ; put it into a well-tinned stewpan, with a quart of the best white wine vinegar, and let them boil together during half an hour over a good fire, keeping the stewpan well covered; strain the liquid through linen, pressing out everything that will go through; put it again into the stewpan, which must pre- viously be well washed and wiped, and place it once more over the fire. Meanwhile, dissolve in ] pint of the same kind of vinegar 4J ozs. of pounded alum ; mix the two liquids together over the fire, stir them well with a wooden spoon entirely free from grease, and let them gently simmer. A scum will now rise, which Avitli a very clean skimmer must be carefully taken off, well drained, and then placed upon sheets of white letter paper. This scum must be gradually dried in a very slack oven, or on a stove very little heated, or before the fire, taking care that no dust falls upon it. When dry it will form a most delicate and beautiful rouge, which will never injure the most sensitive skiu. See Cold Cream, Cologne Water, &c. COSTIVENESS. It is not always in the invalid or the feeble that costiveness is found to prevail, as it often afflicts persons of a com- pact and robust habit, with hearty appetite and strong digestive powers, or who use violent exercise, which heats the blood and throws off an excess of perspiration from the surface. In both the strong and the feeble, however, costive- ness may arise from a too stimulant diet, parti- cularly rough port wine, porter, or beer which is either hard or very bitter from hops or quassia, but particularly from the bread which is ren- dered unnaturally white by alum in order to please the eye. Salted and high-seasoned meats have the same effect. Although, also, violent exercise may be a cause of costiveness, such as too much walking or riding, by carrying off the fluids from the bowels through the skin, yet costiveness will be no less caused by want of exercise, which renders the bowels sluggish and torpid. The absurd custom, also, of wear- ing flannel, so prevalent among many, to their decided injury, is a veiy common cause of costiveness, by acting in the same way on the skin as too much exercise, and carrying off more moisture from the body than can be com- fortably spared. Nothing, however, tends more to confirm a costive habit than fwrpor of the liver and a deficiency of bile. Such being a few of the more common causes of the disorder, we shall next mention some of the attendant symptoms. A person who is costive feels always unconi- fortable and uneasy, not only in his bowels, but in his whole system. There are pains of a wearied or nervous kind in the back or limbs, distressing attacks of what we call fidgets, with violent headaches, flatulence, belching, heart- burn, and most troublesome indigestion, every- thing which is taken into the stomach being instantly corrupted or converted into vinegar. Palpitations of the heart are also common at- tendants on costiveness, with fretful temper, low spirits, and all the disorders of hypochondriasis and melancholy. We need scarcely remark that colic, lumbago, and sciatica are likewise fre-