BIT BLA [ 119 ] produce 14|- gallons superior m quality to any generally sold. BITTERS, SPIRITUOUS. Take 2 ozs. of gentian root, 1 oz. of dried Seville orange-peel, and i oz. of lesser cardamom seeds free from the husks. Put these into 1 quart of any kind of spirits to steep for a fortnight, and strain the liquor as before. BITTERS, WINE. Take 1 oz. each of gentian root and the outer rind of fresh lemons, 2 drachms of long pepper, and 1 quart of white wine. Steep these for six days, and strain the liquor through a filtering bag or cap paper. BITTERSWEET, Solanum dulcamara, also known as woody nightshade. Dr. Duncan thus speaks of this poisonous plant:—This climbing shrub grows wild in moist hedges, attains ten feet to fifteen feet in height, has woody, brittle stalks, and flowers in June and July. The twigs in the second or third year of their growth should be gathered every autumn-after the fall of the leaf. They should have the thickness of a goose quill, or a little more. The epidermis is pale yellow, the bark green, and the pith spongy. When fresh, on being bruised, they give out an unpleasant, nauseous, narcotic smell, which they lose by drying. Their taste is at first distinctly bitter, but they leave a soft, sweetish after-taste in the mouth. The dulcamara twigs have been analysed by Professor Pfaff, who got, besides a very volatile narcotic principle, a peculiar bitter principle of a honey smell and sweet after-taste [Picro-gly- cion), forming about one-fifth. The other prin- ciples were of less importance. M. Desfosses got a narcotic principle, solanine, from the berries of the Solanum nigrum and S. dulca- mara, as well as from the twigs of the latter species, whereas the leaves of the former did not contain it, nor the berries of the S. tuberosum. In the dulcamara he also got a sweet substance, to which he gave the name of didcarine, but it is probably only a modificatiou of uncrystal- lisable sugar. MM. Chevalier and Payen have found this alkaloid also in the Solanum verbasci- folium. It was thought that the berries of the bittersweet, which assume a fine red colour when arrived at maturity, were poisonous ; but M. Dunal has shown that this was an error. Another species of Solanum, the pseudoquina of Brazil, has been analysed by M. Vauquelin, who has found its active principle to resemble colocynthine, in being precipitated by infusion of nut-galls, but not by acetate of lead or ni- trate of silver. Powdered solanine is white, inodorous, rather bitter, little soluble in water, more soluble in alcohol. It is prepared by precipitating the juice of the morelle, or the decoction of that plant by ammonia. The pre- cipitate ia collected, dried, and then treated by boiling alcohol, which on cooling deposits the solanine. Solanine seems to possess considerable power as a narcotic. Two grains affected a young dog. Dr. Schlegel also has related cases in which the decoction of dulcamara and its extract produced narcotic effects. In the last case, a young man with a cutaneous complaint had taken the de- coction of a handful of the fresh twigs daily for fourteen days without any effect. On the fifteenth, having taken also an ounce of the extract in solution, he was seized with cramps in the calves of his legs, slept during the whole night, but on a^vakening in the morning found his head vacant (wust), vertiginous muscm volitantes; pupils greatly dilated; cramp of the legs and arms ; inability to speak, with swelled, stiff tongue ; pulse slow and intermitting ; cold sweat and trembling of the limbs. These symptoms soon went off after tailing a solution of subcarbonate of potass. The dulcamara was formerly much esteemed. It is said to excite the heart and arteries, to increase all the secretions and excretions, and in large doses to produce nausea, vomiting, and convulsions; but its effects are seldom obvious, although from its analysis it is proved to possess narcotic power. It has been recom- mended in cutaneous affections, especially lepra, in rheumatic and other swellings, in ill-con- ditioned ulcers, scrofula, indurations from milk, jaundice, &c. It has principally been used in decoction as a diet drink; 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of that of the London " Pharmacopceia " may be given thrice a day, and gradually augmented till a pint be consumed daily. A stronger decoction may be used externally as a lotion. In the fornf of extract, from 5 grains to 10 grains may be given for a dose. BLACK is the hottest colour which can be worn, for it absorbs heat, whether from a fire or the sun, more rapidly than any other colour. This has been proved by many experiments, and is practically illustrated by slated houses and the roofs of railway carriages being painted white in summer, so that they may reflect instead of ab- sorb the sun's rays. The cooling consequences are most striking Light-coloured garments, also, are found to be cooler for summer wear than are those of a dark colour. On the other hand, black or other dark- coloured veils are to be preferred to white veils for summer use, not only because they are less dazzling to the eyes, but because they preserve the skin more perfectly from being either scorched or freckled. It was formerly considered to be curious that a negro's skui should be black; because, as black absorbs heat more rapidly than any other colour, it was said that it was the worst possible tint to preserve the skin from the