BUT BUR [ 182 ] of air, by means of bellows, may be passed over them, until a strong sense of cold arises. By this simple process, adopted immediately after the accident, a large piece of skin that has been burned to the appearance of charring, and sur- rounded by a high degree of inflammation, has been perfectly cured in a very short time, with- out either ulceration or sloughing taking place, the crust coming off diy, and leaving a sound surface. The application of ice has also been much recommended by Sir James Earle, and other eminent practitioners. The following lini- ment has been in use for a length of time in the practice of St. Thomas's Hospital, in cases of burns or scalds, by smearing the parts over with a feather dipped in it:—Take olive oil, 3 ozs.; lime-water, 4 ozs. Mix them for use. In all probability it might be more advisable, in pre- ference to this, to use cold water, by means of linen cloths dipped in it, or either of the follow- ing, as long as the parts are occupied by heat and inflammation, viz.:—Take rectified spirit, S ozs.; lime-water, ^ pint. Or, take solution of acetate of lead, 1 drachm; spirit of camphor, 3 drachms; distilled water, 1 pint. The following is also a good application, used cold, where the skin is not broken in burns or Bcalds, keeping the parts constantly moistened with it, by means of fine linen cloths. Take lime-water, 6 ozs.; proof spirit, 3 ozs. Equal parts of lime-water and milk are also used to allay the heat and inflammation consequent upon burns and scalds ; and to alleviate the pain and procure rest, as well as in those cases where the nervous system has received a severe shock, opiates, in sufficient doses, may be given. The after-treatment will depend much on the circum- stances of the case itself. Should the burn be deep, and, of course, the part killed, the basil- icon is the best application until the parts begin to show signs of suppuration; but, should the parts immediately round the injured part be much inflamed, we are in the constant habit of using the bread-and-milk poultice until it sub- sides. When the inflammation is reduced to a healthy degree, we return to the basilicon, or to the cerate, until the part sloughs out. After this has taken place we either use Turner's cerate, or the basilicon, or simple cerate, as the wound may seem to require. We use the first where the discharge is too abundant; the second, where it is deficient; and the third, where the sup- purating process is going on kindly. In extensive bums the patient almost always complains of a sensation of cold. When this is the case a free dose of laudanum should be given, and he should be placed in an atmosphere of a moderate temperature. The wound should be opened only when necessary. Should much re- action take place, all stimulating substances, as liquor, animal food, or broths, should be with- held ; and, in some few instances, even bleeding and purging are necessary. BUSHEL. Our market gardeners and re- tailers of fruit, potatoes, &c., generally vend their commodities as if the Act of Parliament, 5 and 6 Will. IV. c. 63, did not exist. By this statute selling by heaped measures is forbidden- under a penalty of not more than 405. for every such sale. Section 8 provides, that as some articles heretofore sold by heaped measure are incapable of being stricken, and may not incon- veniently be sold by weight, all such articles may henceforth be sold by a bushel measui'e, corresponding in shape with the bushel pre- scribed by the 5 Geo. IV. c. 74, for the sale of heaped measure, or by any multiple or aliquot part thereof, filled in all parts as nearly to the level of the brim as the size and shape of the articles will admit ; but nothing herein shall prevent the sale by weight of any article hereto- fore sold by heaped measure. The 5 Geo. IV. c. 74 thus referred to, enacts, by section 7, that for potatoes, fniit, &c., the bushel shall be made round, with a plain and even bottom, be ] 9^ inches from outside to outside, and capa- ble of containing 80 lbs. weight of water. By Act of Parliament a standard gallon contaiiis 10 lbs. of pure water, and 8 of such gallons are a bushel. Besides this, the only legal bushel, we have several local bushels vaiying in their size. At Abingdon and Andover a bushel con- tains 9 gallons; at Appleby and Penrith a bushel of peas, rye, and wheat contains 16 gallons, and of barley, big, malt, and oats, 20 gallons; at Carlisle a bushel contains 24 gallons ; at Chester a bushel of wheat, rye, &c., contains 32 gallons, and of oats as much as 40; at Dorchester a bushel of malt and of oats contains 10 gallons ; at Falmouth the bushel of stricken coals is 16 gallons, and of other things 20, or usually 21 gallons; at Kingston-on-Thames the bushel contains 8J gallons ; at Newbury, 9 gallons; st Wycomb and Reading, 8| gallons; and at Stam- ford, 16 gallons. Such irregularities are pro- ductive of much inconvenience. See Baskets. BUTCHERS' BROOM {Ruscus aculeatus). The roots and berries are purgative. The seeds are roasted and substituted for cofi'ee. BUTCHERS' MEAT. See Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, and Poek. BUTLER. This is usually the head man- servant of a gentleman's establishment, compara- tively few having the general supervisor, called the hov^e steward. We must confine ourselves to a mere enumeration of his duties. The cellarage, or management of the wine and beer cellars, devolves upon him, and to direct the brewing ; he arranges the tables for all meals, directs the servants waitinghe has the plate under his