CRE [ 376 ] CRO as an emulsion; as an ethereal or spirituous Bolution; externally, against chronic diseases of the skin, sores of ditferent kinds, mortifica- tion, scalding; wounds, as a styptic; caries of the teeth, and toothache thereby produced, mostly in the form of an aqueous solution (1 of creosote to 80 of water); for poultices, lotions, and injec- tions ; and likewise, mixed with lard (5 drops to 1 drachm), as an ointment; and, dissolved in spirits of wine, as a popular remedy for tooth- ache. The opinions as to the effects of creosote as an internal remedy are divided, obviously because, as is generally the case with new remedies, too much was expected from it, and it has therefore been employed in the most opposite diseases. It is doubtless most effective in the cases named as an external remedy.— {Duflos's Pharm. Chym.) Ci-eosote is also em- ployed to preserve animal substances, either by washing it over them or by immersing them in its aqueous solution. A few drops in a saucer, or on a piece of spongy paper, if placed in a larder, will effectually drive away insects, and make the meat keep several days longer than otherwise. A small quantity added to brine or vinegar is commonly employed to impart a smoky flavour to meat and fish, and its solution ill acetic acid is used to give the flavour of whiskey to plain spirits. CRESPIGNY'S, LADY, PILLS. Mix together 3 drachms of powdered aloes, 1 drachm of powdered mastic, and 1 drachm of red rose leaves. Make them into a mass, and divide it into three-grain pills. Two to be taken when needed to promote digestion. They are some- times called dinner pills. CRESS SAUCE. Wash some cress very clean, and pick it carefully leaf by leaf; put a tea- spoonful of salt into half a pint of boiling water, boil the cress about ten minutes, drain it on a sieve, mince it quite fine, and then bruise it to a pulp. The delicacy and excellence of this elegant and innocent relish depend on the cress being minced very fine. Put it into a sauce-boat, and mix with it by degrees about half a pint of good melted butter, only do not put so much flour to it, as the cress will add to its thickness. Never pour cress sauce over boiled things, but send it up in a boat. CRESS yiNEGAR. Dry and pound i oz. of cress seed (such as is sown in the garden with mustard), pour upon it a quart of the best vinegar, and let it steep t-en days, shaking it every day. CRICKETS (Gryllifs fjomesticus) are most effectually driven away by scattering Scotch snuff in and abput their haunts. They delight in new-bujlt houses, where the moisture and softness of the mortar enable them to penetrate between the joints of the bricks or stones, and thus to open communications to different rooms. Crickets have a great partiality for kitchens and bakers' ovens, on account of the continual warmth to be found in those places. They ai-e known by their lively chirping notes, performed by a sudden friction of their wings, or by striking them against their hind legs. This noise, how- ever, is peculiar to the males, and increases to- wards night, when they leave their secret haunts. The female deposits her yellowish eggs in the earth or rubbish, whence the insects emerge in twelve days, and attain their full growth in six or eight weeks, after having four times changed their coats. Towards the latter part of the summer they are observed to fly, a circumstance which accounts for their suddenly retreating from one place and appearing at another. An easy method of destroying this insect is to place phials half full of beer or any other liquid near their holes, whence they will crawl into them and cannot escape. Cats are very fond of crickets, but the vast quantities they consume often occasion their death. CRIMPING FISH. Strike a newly caught fish on the head to deprive it of sensation, and before the muscles are stiffened by the rigid contractions of death cut as many transverse sections as you desire across the body, and throw it in cold water. The contraction, called crimp- ing, commences in about five minutes . but if the fish is large it will take half an hour to complete. Hard water is the best. Gashes across the cheek are frequently made in crimp- ing, which improve the appearance of the fish when served up, and give a greater facility for carving. It has been asserted that a fish will Veigh more when crimped than before, which may be accounted for by its absorbing some of the cold water. The object of crimping is first to retard the stiffening of the muscles, and then, by the immersion, to excite it to the greatest possible degree, by which means the fish becomes firmer and keeps longer. It also gives facility in the cooking and carving. Crimped cod is a proof that the fish is fresh; and those who live on the seacoast, and obtain their fish shortly after it is caught, will find crimping a great improvement and easily per- formed. CROCATS. See Croquettes. CROCHET. Ribbed crochet is formed by working backwards and forwards, taking the under instead of the upper loop of the chain. Long Stitch is made by bringing the thread round the hook. Draw it through a loop of the chain. You have now three loops on the hook. Draw the thread through two of them You have now two loops. Draw the thread through these two. You have now one on the hook. To continue long stitches successively