BAR [ 66 ] BAR spots of various dimensious; and in cutaneous diseases arising from obstructed or checked sensible and insensible perspiration. Before entering on a course of these waters, it is necessary that the invalid be perfectly- recovered from the fatigues of the journey; if much excited, should lose a little blood; and if the stomach and bowels are loaded and foul, should take a gentle vomit and purgative. The costiveness which these baths frequently induce must be obviated by occasional doses of some aperient, as Epsom salts, &c. Whenever the causes of disease are internal the waters must constantly be drunk; and when they are thus administered, with a view to their alterative properties, their operation then will essentially be assisted by calomel, James's powders, or Plummer's pills. The most favourable time for drinking these waters is the morning. The quantity must be regulated by the condition of the stomach and disease of the invalid. It should not, however, exceed three pints, and should be for a due continuance. As it is of consequence not to load the stomach, the interval of a quarter of an hour between each draught will be proper. The addition of milk, in the proportion of a fourth, a third, or a half, according to circum- stances, renders the waters less offensive. In external wounds, tumours, and ulcers, the hot douches (a fall of water directed on any part, to operate by its percussions; it is, there- fore, what the English term pumping upon), with some previous tepid baths, are indicated; but should these be accompanied with constitutional depravation, the internal use of the waters should also be conjoined. The head and body should not be exposed so freely to the douches as the exti-emities. They are inapplicable in cases of inflammation. Fomentations of the water, with temperate baths, will be the more judicious remedies. The most favourable time for dressing wounds is immediately after the douche and while in the bath-room, for the advantage of its air and warmth. The dressings should be kept con- stantly wet with the waters ; but when the healing process has commenced, dry lint must be substituted to perfect the cure. The douche may be employed both morning and evening, and its duration may be from ten to fifteen minutes.. When the disease is so seated as not to be reached by the douche, then injections will be found convenient. For both of these applications the hottest water should generally be preferred. When both baths and douches are required, the former should precede to prepare the parts for the impressions of the latter, as in indurated tumours, rheumatisms, and other disorders of long standing, caused by checked perspiration, and characterised by aridity and hardness of the skin ; in obstructions of the viscera, in gravel, &c. The douches should always be applied near to the seat of the disease. After its application to stiff, contracted, or hardened parts and tumours, the bituminous oil of the waters well rubbed upon them, will expedite considerably the cure. The proper time for having the douches and baths is the interval between meals when diges- tion is concluded. One hour is the ordinary duration of the temperate bath, after which and the douche the invalid should, in inveterate cases, go to bed to elicit perspiration. The diet should be light and nutritive, con- sisting of soup, mutton, veal, chicken, partridge, roasted or boiled; and the ordinary beverage, the water of the cold fountain, boiled to render it pure, should that of the mineral spring be found too disgusting for the use of the table. Those who require wine may mix a little with it. —{Meigham, Clarke, and Mackenzie, on Mineral Waters.) The Bareges water for drinking may be imitated by dissolving 31 grains of each of the following salts, namely, common salt, carbonate of soda, and sulphuret of sodium, in 2 gallons of water. Put into pint bottles and tie down the corks firmly. For bathing dissolve in 2 pints of water 986 grains of each of the same salts. These 2 pints are to be mixed with 60 gallons of water to form a bath. BARILLA is impure subcarbonate of soda, such as, when crystallised, is used by washer- women. It is prepared by burning the plant Salsola soda, which in Spain is called barilla. The Spanish preparation of these ashes is the best, yet that contains only from 25 to 40 per cent, of carbonate of soda, the remainder being chiefly common and other salts. BARKS. In many of the practical arts the utility of different barks is very great and ex- tensive ; for instance, that of the oak, quercitron, and wattle, for dyeing, and for tanning leather, and manuring the soil; the Peruvian, cinna- mon, quassia, willow-bark, &c., in medicine and for culinary uses ; that of the alder and walnut trees, in dyeing ; and others again for a variety of purposes, such as the bark of the cork tree, &c. Without detailing the particular and curious pi'ocesses adopted by foreign nations for rendering the barks of vainous trees essen- tially useful we shall briefly state that the Japanese make their beautiful paper of the bark obtained from a species of the mulberiy tree; the natives of Otaheite manufacture their cloth of the same tree, as well as the bread-