[ 340 ] COL COK inch. Melted vrax, stearine, fusible metal, or ail}' similar material, may be used in the same way. COKE is only part of the carbon, or charcoal, of comraou coal and its earthy constituents, the bituminous and gaseous constituents of the coal being driven off either in the coke oven or gas retort. The heating power of coke is greater than that of coal in the proportion of 75° to 69°; but to burn coke in a common fireplace requires careful management. The fire siiould be lighted and well burnt up with coal before any coke is put on ; then put on a good quantity, throwing it quite at the back of the fire, no piece being larger or smaller than a hen's egg. Leave it untouched, for poking checks its burning. It is better calculated for close stoves than for open fireplaces. COLCANNON. This dish is made by boil- ing potatoes and spinach or any other greens separately. Mash the potatoes, squeeze the greens dry, chop them finely, and, having mixed them with some butter and salt, put the whole into a buttered mould, and then in a hot oven for ten minutes. COLCHICUM, or Meadow Saffron. This member of the crocus family is called by bota- nists Colchicum autumnale. The expressed juice is used in Alsace to destroy vermin in the hair. In modern times it was first recommended as a diuretic by Baron Stoerck; but the trials made of it at that time seemed to prove that it ■was a very inert substance, probably from im- proper pharmacy. The success of the French nostrum, called eau medicinale allu&son, iu relieving the pain in paroxysms of gout led to an attempt to discover its composition ; and it is worthy of remark that, before the principle upon which their activity depends was known, the white hellebore and meadow saffron should have each respectively been suspected to be the active ingredient by Mr. Moore and Mr. Want. The discovery of veratria in both is a strong presumption that the virtue of the eau d'Husson really depends upon that alkaloid, from what- ever plant it be prepared. Be this as it may, since that time various preparations of colchi- cum have been very generally used, chiefly in gouty and rheumatic attacks, as a substitute for the eau medicinale. A saturated vinum colchici, prepared by ma- cerating Q ozs. of the fresh root cut in slices in 2-t ozs. of white wine in a gentle heat for six days, the spirit being previously carried off by h(3at, and filtering the solution, is now frequently used as a substitute for it in gout (chiefly on the recommendation of Sir E. Home), rheuma- tism, and dropsy; and there is no doubt that it produces similar, and sometimes even fatal efiects. It acts irregularly, sometimes relieving the pain without any other obvious efFect ; but it often combines an anodyne effect with a drastic operation as an emetic, purgative, or diuretic. Dr. Scudamore has ably treated of these pre- tended specifics in gout, and condemns them as ultimately injurious. Mr. Haden gives the powdered colchicum bulb in all inflammatory affections in doses of from 2 to 8 grains, with a scruple or more of sulphate of potass, every four or six hours, increasing the dose until either vomiting or purging is produced on the second or third day, when the medicine is either laid aside or given in diminished doses. The seeds have lately been also recommended by Dr. Williams in the form of a vinous infusion, as being less uncertain than the wine of the recent root. COLD. See Catarrh. COLD, ARTIFICIAL. See Freezing Mixtures. COLD CREAM. The following is excellent:— Place 2 ozs. of oil of almonds, 1 drachm of white wax, and 1 drachm of spermaceti in a basin by the fire. Mix together 1 oz. of rose water and I oz. of orange-flower water. Add a few drops of this mixture to the oil, wax, and spermaceti, stirring it all the time with a porcelain or glass pestle, and continue thus to add and incorporate a few drops at a time until, when cold, it is like very thick cream. COLIC. This disease, of which there are several varieties, is characterised by a painful distention of the whole of the lower part of the b?lly, with a particular twisting round the navel, frequently attended with vomiting, costiveness, and spasmodic conti'actions of the abdominal muscles. It arises from various causes, such as raw and sour food, wind, a superfluity of acrid bile, long-continued costiveness, hardened faeces, metallic poisons, derangement of the intestines, gout or rheumatism shifting, hysterics, worms, the application of cold, &c. ; and, according to the causes giving rise to it, it has been de- nominated the bilious, flatulent, or hysteric colic, all of which are accompartied with spasm of some part of the intestines. The first, or bilious colic, is marked by loss of appetite, a bitter taste in the mouth, thirst, feverish heat, costiveness. and vomiting of bilious matter, accompanied with sharp pain about the navel; the former, as the disease advances, becoming more frequent; the latter more severe and last- ing. To allay the frequent vomiting in this type of the disease, with great irritability of the stomach, a saline draught such as the following may be taken every two or three hours, e.g.:— Take subcarbonate of potass, 1 scruple; cinna- mon water, 2 drachms ; distilled water, i oz.; tincture of opium, 25 drops; to which add a