BUG BUG [ 174 ] two, and of the clogteny only one. Buckthorn lerries bruised on white paper stain it of a green colour, which the others do not. The juice when first expressed is green, hut soon becomes red, in consequence of the formation of acetic acid by fermentation. Those who sell the juice to the apothecaries are said to mix it with a large proportion of water. Sap green is pre- pared by reducing it to an extract with the addition of an alkali. Buckthorn berries have a faint disagreeable smell and a nauseous bitter taste. They were long in considerable esteem as cathartics, and celebrated in dropsies, rheumatism, and even in the gout. They generally occasion gripes and sickness, dry the mouth and throat, and leave a thirst of long duration. The dose is about 20 of the fresh berries in substance and twice or thrice this number in decoction ; 1 oz. of the expressed juice or 1 dracbm of the dried berries. —[Duncans Dispensatory.) BUCKTHORN SYRUP. Gather the ber- ries in the heat of the day, and set in an earthen vessel in the oven ; squeeze out the juice; and for each peck of berries put 2 lbs. of Lisbon sugar, and boil them together a quarter of an hour. Let it cool, and then bottle it. BUCKWHEAT, or Brank, may be given to hoi'ses and to poultry, but in small quantities, for this grain is very heating. Buckwheat meal very readily fattens cattle and pigs. The flour is fine and white, but, being deficient in gluten, does not make good fermented bread. It serves well, however, for pastry and cakes; crumpets made of it, and eaten with butter, are consumed largely in Holland. A hasty pudding is also made of it with milk, and eaten with sugar. Buckwheat is most fruitful in the saccharine principle, even much more so than barley, than which also it can be raised at considerably less expense; it is, therefore, certainly worth the while of both the maltster and the distiller to give buckwheat a fair trial, should it ever be sufli- ciently cultivated in this country to aff'ord them an opportunity of doing so, and there is no doubt that it will be so cultivated when actual experiment shall have given evidence of its emi- nent usefulness. In many parts of Germany, where buckwheat constitutes almost the sole food of the peasantiy, and forms a considerable and highly-rehshed portion of the diet of the more wealthy, it is likewise the basis of their beer, which is of fine flavotir, genei'ous, and wholesome. In the distilling of German gin it likewise enters as a principal ingredient. At Dantzic, celebrated for its liqueurs, especially for the goldenicasser, termed by the French eaU' de-vie de Dantzic, the preference is given, in the manufacture of these delicious liqueurs, to the spirit produced from buckwheat, a considerable quantity of whick grain is therefore consumed by the distillers of that city. BUDRAM, or Welsh Blanc-maNge. To 2 gallons of bruised oats add 4 gallons of watei-; put them in an earthen pot, and cover the mouth slightly with a coarse cloth, stirring round occa- sionally, and place it on the hob or in the vicinity of the fire. In a short time fermentation will begin. After it has stood four or five days raise some of the mixture in a fine sieve, and strain through any quantity desired. Set this on the fire to boil, and, when of a sufficient consistency, pour it into a dish or into blanc-mange moulds to cool. It forms a very cool, palatable, and wholesome food, eaten with milk, cold, and its acidity will not disagree with the most delicate stomach. It is slightly aperient, and exceed- ingly congenial in warm weather. Were the preparation of it as expensive as blanc-mange, it would doubtless deservedly be prized; and though forming the principal diet of farm ser- vants and labourers in South Wales and in many parts of Scotland, it is scarcely known in Eng- land. It is obtained at a small e.xpense, and with little trouble, and only requires a trial to he appreciated. BUFF COLOURS. SeeBYE^va. BUG. The common bed-bug [Cimex lectu- laris) is generally found in old household stuff, in the cracks of walls, or crevices of floors, and in the joints of bedsteads. It has inhabited European houses from the time of Dioscorides, but was probably first introduced into England in the fir timber imported from America for the purpose of rebuilding London after the great Fire of 1G66, as the insect was first found in the newly-erected edifices, and afterwards became known throughout the country from London as the centre of its existence and prevalence, not having, even at the present moment, reached some of the remoter parts of the kingdom, and commonly attacking the newly-arrived visitors to the metropolis with great fury and preference ; and we believe that many of the new houses erected within these few years in the north-west end of London, are infested with beetles, ants, and other annoyances of vermin, according to the circumstances of the nature of the wood em- ployed in the carpentry of the house, as well as dependently on the location and character of the foundation on which the building rests. It likewise harasses young pigeons and other birds, and is very similar to another kind of bug which is found on swallows. The same is said by Dr. Fleming to be destroyed by the Cimex personatus, or black bug; and in character it is closely allied to the bug generally existing in a flat form under the bark of trees. The female bug commences laying her eggs in the beginning of summer. They are of a tolerable comparative size, whitiah