GOO GOL [ 5G5 ] several pieces of butter about it. Bake it two hours. Make a good gravy with the scraps and bone, and serve with it. GOLD. {See Gilding). Gold is not affected by long exposure either to atmospheric air or water ; nor is it acted upon by sulphuric, nitric, or muriatic acid, whatever may be their states of dilution or concentration, its only solvent being nitro-muriatic acid, or chlorine. Its solution imparts a purple stain to the skin, and its oxide, when united with ammonia, possesses strong fulminating properties. It melts at 1300° of Fahrenheit, and when melted takes a bright green colour inclining to blue; but it may be kept in this state of fusion for any length of time without suffering any diminution either in its weight or its qualities. The most usual of its alloys is with copper. By this the density of the gold is diminished, and its hardness increased. The alloy employed for ordinary jewellery is a mi.K- tureof 761 grains of gold with 236 grains of copper. This tarnishes by exposure to the air, owing to the oxidising of the copper; but the original colour is restored by rubbing the tarnished article with spirit of hartshorn, or other ammoniacal solution. Copper is used to alloy our gold coin to harden it, and thus enable it to sustain the wear and tear incident to its circulation. One pound of copper is added to every twelve pounds of gold, and from twenty troy pounds of this alloy are coined 934 sove- reigns and one half-sovereign. The wear and tear lessen the value of the gold coin very slowly, for it was found that 100 sovereigns of 1817, after circulating seventeen years, bad diminished in value only 8s. lOd.; and 100 half-sovei'cigns, after the same time of service, 8s. 2d. Gold is found native in Peru, in Brazil, in Siberia, in North Carolina, in Hungary, and in several other paits of the world. It generally occurs in a metallic state, alloyed with a little silver or copper, and commonly in the form of grains. Most of the gold of commerce is at present brought to Europe from Africa, from the continent of America, but more largely from Australia and California. Thei'e is only one salt of this metal that is much known to chemists, viz., the chloride of gold, which is obtained in small crystals, and is very soluble in water. If ether be added to a solution of chloride of gold the gold will leave the acid, and float upon its surface combined with the ether. This ethereal solution has been used by Mr. Stodart and Mr. Savigny for defending their lancets and other surgical in- struments from injury by a damp atmosphere. It was formerly used in medicine under the name of potable gold. In those days of credulity it was generally prescribed to all patients who could furnish the apothecary with gold enough to make as much of the medicine as he should pronounce to be sufficient to insure a cui'e. Gold is spread over other metals in the process called gilding to preserve them from tarnishing or rusting, as gold does not be- come oxidised by exposure to atmospheric air. Leaf-gold, or the chippings of leaf gold, are ground with honey, and then put into muscle- shells : this they call gold in powder, or in the shell. This gold, so prepared, is used for painting in miniature. The purple oxide of gold is employed in staining glass, and for orna- menting porcelain. Gold is also used in a state of solution for staining ivory and orna- mental feathers. It gives a beautiful purple red which cannot be effaced : even marble may be stained with it. The nitro muriatic acid is the menstruum used for this purpose. The potters dissolve gold in this way to be applied to the common kind of porcelain. Bismuth or zinc will precipitate gold from this solution. Tin will precipitate it of a beautiful purple, called the purple precipitate of Cassius. This, also, is used by the potters in printing on porcelain. Sulphuret of potash will likewise dissolve gold.—[Johnson's Chemistry of the World.) GOLDBEATERS' SKIN is prepared from the inner membrane of part of the intestines of the ox. This membrane is washed over with a solution of isinglass, to which are added some spices, and finally the su'-face is varnished with white of egg. This renders it adhesive when moistened, and consequently useful for covering slight cuts. GOLDEN CORDIAL. To 1 gallon of brandy or other spirit add 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, 1 drachm of the confection of alkermes, 1 drachm of the oil of cloves, and 1 oz. of spirit of saffron. Powder the sugar, and mix it in brandy; then put in the rest, and stir it all one way for a quarter of an hour. GOLDEN OINTMENT, SINGLETON'S. Melt together 3 ozs. of lard and 1 oz. of white wax ; then add ^ oz. of nitric oxide of mercury in very fine powder, stirring all the time, and until the mixture becomes partly solid. To be rubbed into the eyelids when inflamed, or when the eyeball is inflamed. It is a most valuable remedy. GOOSE: To Carve. To cut up a goose accord- ing to the ancient vocabulary of the art of carving is a process that requires great skill and more practice. Remove the apron in the direction a b c, pour into the body of the goose a glass of port wine, and a large spoonful of mustard previously mixed at the sideboard. Bring the neck end towards you, and cut the whole breast