FIL [ 493 ] FIL As soon as it begins to candy pour the whole on the slab, carefully removing whatever sugar may stick to the pan or spatula. When the almonds are cold add 2 ozs. of powder sugar, and then crush them with a rolling-pin; put them into a cream patissiere, and make it accord- ing to the directions for that article. FILBERT, BURNT, ICE (Ckeam of). Roast some Barcelona nuts well in the oven, and pound them a little with some cream ; put four eggs into a stewpan, with one pint of cream and two gills of syrup; boil till it becomes thick, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it; then mix the filberts with it before putting it into the moulds. FILBERT CANNELONS. Burn and pound 6 ozs. of filberts, moistening them with the white of egg. When well pounded add :^lb. of finely pounded sugar, and half the white of an egg; dry this paste a little, and then press it through a syringe, cutting the cannelons about four inches in length ; make afriture quite hot, dip the cannelons in batter, and fry them ; sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them with a salamander. Take particular care to keep the cannelons perfectly straight. FILBERT CREAM, FRANCAISE. Wash and drain ^ lb. of filberts (blanched), and colour them very slightly. When cold pound them, adding occasionally a spoonful of milk; put the paste into five glasses of boiling milk, cover it closely, and let it stand till no more than luke- warm. In the meantime beat up the yolks of eight eggs, into which strain the infusion of filberts, and add 10 ozs. of sugar and a grain of salt; set the cream in the usual way, put 6 drachms of isinglass to it, and finish as directed for Ceeam, French, au Marasquin. FILBERT GENOISE Pound 6 ozs. of blanched filberts to a fine paste, then put two- thirds of them to the usual ingredients, instead of sweet almonds, and make the Genoises ac- cording to directions. When baked cut them into crescents, but do not dry them; mix the remainder of your filberts with J lb. of sifted sugar and a little white of egg; cover the Genoises with this, and then colour them. FILBERT ICE. Take 1 lb. of filberts, shell, and blanch them; boil ^Ib. of sugar to souffle, then throw in the filberts, let them boil up about a dozen times, and then move them about with a spatula that the sugar may adhere to them. As soon as they begin to candy take them out, and when cold put them into a sauce- pan with the yolks of nine eggs, to which add a quart of double cream. Set this on the fire like all other cream ices. When done strain it off, let it cool, and then ice it as usual. FILBERT MACAROONS. Take 1 lb. of filberts, and put a quarter of them into a pre- serving pan over a moderate fire immediately after they are taken from the shells; stir them continually with a silver spoon until they are coloured, and the skin begins to peel off; then take them out, rub off the skin entirely, and when quite cold pound them with a little white of egg. Proceed in the same manner with the three remaining quarters, and when all are thus pounded separately put the whole together into a mortar, with 1 lb. of sugar and the whites of two eggs ; beat them for ten minutes, after which add 2 lbs. more of sifted sugar, previously beaten up with the whites of six eggs; stir all these well together for five or six minutes, when the preparation should be suffi- ciently firm to prevent its spreading when laid ; if, however, it be too firm add to it more white of egg. When you have proceeded so far wet the palms of your hands, and roll a spoonful of the preparation to the size and form of a nutmeg. When all are done dip your hands in water, and pass them gently over the macaroons, which will make their surface smooth and shining; put them into a nearly cold oven, close it tightly, and let them remain in it for three quarters of an hour. Lay the macaroons at least an inch apart, and as round as possible. FILBERT MIRLITONS. Peel Jib. of filberts, and put them into a preserving pan over a moderate fire to colour them lightly. When quite cold pound them with a little white of egg to prevent their oiling; then mix them with 6 ozs. of powder sugar, four eggs, and a grain of salt. When well amalgam.ated add 2 ozs. of melted fresh butter, and fill your moulds pre- pared as for other mirlitons ; cover them with very fine sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. FILBERT ROLLS. Having peeled ilb. of filberts put them into a preserving pan over a moderate fire, and stir tliera constantly with a spatula until they become equally coloured of a light yellow, and then set them to cool. When cold pound them with a little white of egg to a paste, and mix them with ^ lb. of flour, the same of powder sugar, and the yolks of four or five eggs; then finish the operation as directed for Almond Rolls. Dorez, and trace on the surface an ear of wheat, or anything else, with the point of a knife. Take care to dry them well in baking, that they may be crisp. Coarse powder sugar may also be strewed over before they are put in the oven. FILBERT, SMALL, WAFERS. Take ^ lb. of the preparation used for spoon biscuits, and spread it over a well-buttered baking plate with a knife, taking care to keep it of an equal thickness all over; peel J lb. of filberts, cut them into thin slips, and mix them with 2 ozs. of powder sugar and a very little white of egg