BAK [ 59 3 BAK toes at the rate of about 14 lbs. to a sack of flour. (See Alum.) BAKING (in Cookeby) is roasting in a closed oven, and consists of exposing substances to be roasted by the action of heat in a con- fined space, or closed oven, which does not per- mit the free access of air to cause the vapour arising from the roasted substance to escape as fast as it is formed, and this circumstance materially alters the flavour of roasted animal substances. Roasters and ovens of the common construc- tion are apt to give to meat a disagreeable flavour, arising from the empyreumatic oil which is formed by the decomposition of the fat ex- posed to the bottom of the oven. This incon- venience has been completely remedied in two ways : firstly, by providing against the evil of allowing the fat to burn; and, secondly, by carrying out of the oven, by a strong current of heated air, the empyreumatic vapours as fast as they are formed. The first effect of the fire is to rarify the >vatery juices within its influence, which make their escape in the form of steam. The albumin- ous portion then coagulates in the same manner as the white of an egg does ; the gelatine and the osmazome become detached from the fibrin, and unite with a portion of the fat, which also is liquefied by the expansive property of heat. The union of these form a compound fluid not to be found in the meat previously. This is retained in the interstices of the fibres, where it is formed by the brown frothy crust, but flows abundantly from every pore when a cut is made into the meat with a knife. In conse- quence of the dissipation of the watery juices, the fibrous portion becomes gradually contracted, and, if not attentively watched, its texture is destroyed and it becomes hard. Chemists prove that the peculiar odour and taste of roasted meat depend on the development of the prin- ciple which has been called osmazome, or the animal extractive matter of the old chemists— a substance which differs very materially from every other constituent part of animal matter chemically, it being soluble in alcohol, and to the senses extremely savoury. It is upon this principle, which seems to admit of con- siderable varieties, that the peculiarly grateful flavour of animal food, whether in the form of broth or roasted, and of each of its kind, depends. Osmazome exists in the largest quantity in the fibrous organs, or combined with fibrin in the muscles; while the tendons and other gelatinous organs appear to be destitute of it. The flesh of game and old animals contains it in greater quantity than that of young animals abounding in gelatine. The tenderness produced by roasting we account for from the expansion of the watery juices into steam loosening and dissevering the fibres one from another in forcing a passage through the pores to make their escape hy. This violence, also, must rupture all the finer network of the cellular membranes, besides the smaller nerves and blood-vessels which ramify so numerously through every hairbreadth of animal substance. This dissolution of all the minute parts of the meat, which must take place before a particle of steam can escape, will most clearly account both for the tenderness and the altered colour of roasted meat. The action of heat, also, upon the more solid parts of the bundles of fibres, will, independently of the ex- pansion of the juices, cause them to enlarge their volume, and consequently make the smaller fibres less firmly adhesive. Dr. Kitchener says baking is one of the cheapest and most convenient ways of dressing dinner in small families ; and we may say that the oven is often the only kitchen the poor man has if he wishes to enjoy a joint of meat at home with his family. We do not mean to deny the superior excel- lence of roasting to baking, but some joints when baked so nearly approach to the same when roasted, that we have known them to be carried to the table and eaten as such with great satisfaction. When baking a poor joint of meat before it has been half baked we have seen it start from the bone, and shrivel up scarcely to be believed. Besides the joints ordinarily subjected to this form of cooking we shall enumerate a few baked dishes which can be particularly recommended. A pig, when sent to the baker prepared for baking, should have its ears and tail covered with buttered paper properly fastened on, and a bit of butter tied up in a piece of linen to baste the back with, otherwise it will be apt to blister. With a proper share of attention from the baker, we consider this way equal to a roasted one. A goose is prepared the same as for roasting, taking care to have it on a stand, and when half done to turn the other side upwards. A duck the same. A buttock of beef in the following way is par- ticularly fine. After it has been in salt about a week, let it be washed well, and put into a browni earthen pan, with a pint of water ; cover the pan tightly over with two or three thicknesses of cap or foolscap paper. Never cover anything that is to be baked with brown paper; the pitch and tar that is in brown paper will give the meat a smoky, bad taste. Give it four or five hours in a moderate oven. A ham, if not too old, put in soak for an hour, taken out and wiped, a crust made suf-