EAR [ 450 ] EAU them till tender and white, make a forcemeat of minced veal and ham, two hard eggs, a few bread crumbs, aiid a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; pound the whole in a mortar, and then form it into a paste with a raw egg ; stuff .the ears with this, and glaze them over with some yolk of egg ; roll them in bread crumbs, lay some butter over them, and bake them till they are nicely browned. Garnish with fried parsley. EARS, LAMB'S: To Dbess. Scald them clean, put them into a pint of veal stock, and braise them till half done. Stew the ears till the liquor is nearly reduced, add some cullis, and stew them till tender. If intended to be served with white sauce proceed as before, adding thereto some egg. EARS, PIG'S : To Dress. Having cleaned the ears, boil them till so tender that the bones will come out easily; season with chopped sage, parsley, pepper, salt, and mace ; simmer till the herbs are scalded, and then pour off the whole into a dish. EARTHENWARE is a comprehensive term, including every kind of pottery, porcelain, and china wai-e. We can do no more than enumerate their particular names and localities. Bed pottery, including red pans, flower-pots, and such-like, is carried on in various counties; stoneware, including ginger-beer bottles, is the produce of Staffordshire; Wedgewood ware is especially from Burslem, in the same county; flesh-coloured ware is made at Lambeth from clay found near Maidstone ; terra cotta is manu- factured at Lowestoffe, in Leicestershire ; Ilock- ingham ware at Rotherham, in Yorkshire. Cole- hrookdale, Derby, Worcester, Nugarrow in Wales, and some other localities, are, or have been, also celebrated for their superior porcelain in our islands. Abroad, China, Dresden, Berlin, Vienna, but, above all, Sevres, near Paris, are distinguished for the excellence or beauty of their porcelain. It would not be within our purpose to enter more fully into particulars relative to these manufactories, but we will add directions for seasoning their productions. Put new earthenware into cold water to heat and boil gradually ; then let it grow cold again. While the water is boiling throw into it a hand- ful of bran. This preserves the glazing so that it will not be affected by salt or acid. Boiling, earthenware toughens it. EARWIG [Forficula auricularia). No greater fallacy exists than that which stigmatises this insect with its popular name. We believe that never was an instance known of the earwig penetrating the human ear ; indeed, no insects enter that ear designedly, for the bitterness of the cerumen, or ear-wax, is not only obnoxious, but fatal to them. Earwigs are injurious only to the wall-fruit grower and the florist. The only certain method of destroying them is by catching them, which is best effected by hollow tubes laid here and there in orchards and flower- beds. The common reed is fit for this purpose, but the hollow stem of the sunflower is even more so, as the insects are eager in the pursuit of the remains of the sweet pith. They are also easily caught between the folds of paper, or m pieces of cloth and linen laid on the ground. They creep into these traps in the morning after their nocturnal rambles, and may be shaken out and easily killed at any time of the day. Some amateurs of pinks and carnations place the feet of their flower-stands in vessels of water, which prevents the earwigs from creeping, but not from flying, upon the plants, for the earwig has wings. EAU D'ANGE {Angelic tmter). This fra- grant preparation is made by disc'lling two quarts from the following mixture :—Benzoin, 4 ozs.; storax, 2 ozs.; cloves, | oz.; calamus, J oz.; cinnamon, | oz.; coriander seeds, 1 drachm. Bruise together, and then mix with 5 pints of water. EAU D ARGENT {Silver water). Take the rinds of two oranges, the same of two lemons, a drachms of cinnamon broken in pieces, and 3 quarts of brandy; distil from this in the bain- marie alembic a quart of liqueur; dissolve 2|^lbs. of sugar in 3 pints of river water, and put the liqueur to it; strain, bottle, and finish it with silver leaf as directed for Eau d'Or. EAU D'ARQUEBUSADE. See Aeque- BusADE Water. EAU DE BOUQUET {Bouquet ivater). Mix together spirit of wine, 1 pint; essence of violets, \ oz.; spirit of rosemary, ^ oz.; essence of bergamot, \ drachm; essence of jasmine, ^ drachm; oil of lavender, \ drachm; oil of verbena, \ drachm ; rose water, J pint; orange- flower water, ^ oz. Mix, and filter through blotting paper. A delightful perfume for the toilet. EAU DE COLOGNE. See Cologke Water. EAU DE LA COTE. Take i lb. of the best cinnamon in powder, | lb. of dates, \ lb. of the best Turkey figs, and the zests of four cedrats ; put all these into 3 gallons of brandy, and let them infuse for six days. At the end of that period distil in a bain-marie. From this you will extract 6 quarts of the liqueur. Dissolve 9 lbs. of fine sugar in 6 quarts of distilled river ■water, add it to the liqueur, pass the whole through a jelly bag, and bottle it. EAU DIVINE {Divine water). This is an agreeable perfumed cordial. Mix essence of lemon, 1 drachm, and essence of bergamot, 1 drachm; put them into 1 gallon of rectified spirit of wine, and add 5 quarts of water;