CIN [ 305 ] CIT 4 bottles of brandy you must take 4 ozs. of cin- namon of the best quality, 30 cloves, 13 corian- der seeds, and a little salt, mixed together in brandy; let them infuse for eighteen hours ; you are to take from the still as much as you can, 2i: lbs. clarified in 2| bottles of water, with the whites of 2 or 3 eggs well beaten together, mixed with the spirit, and filtered through blotting- paper. After you have mixed the spirit take care to cork your bottles well. CINNAMON PASTILS. Dissolve ioz. of gum dragon in a glass of water, strain it through a lawn sieve into a mortar, and add to it a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a sufficient quantity of sifted sugar to make the paste of a proper consistence. Form it into such figures as you may fancy, and dry them in a stove. Keep them in a dry place. CINNAMON SWEETMEATS. Take 1 lb. of marchpane paste, and dilute it with as many whites of eggs as will make it spread easily with a knife. Add to this a spoonful or two of prepared bole ammoniac, which will give it a fine red tinge, and -I oz. of cinnamon powder. When all these ingredients are well mixed cut some wafer paper into such forms as you may think proper, and lay them on the paste about the thickness of the eighth of an inch. Place them on paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done they may be finished in the following manner: — Boil some sugar in orange-flower water to la plume, and, as you take the sweet- meats from the oven, dip a hair pencil into the syi'up, and brush them over. This dries almost immediately, and considerably improves the look of them. CINNAMON, SYRUP OF. Put 5 ozs. of good cinnamon into a previously heated glass cucurbit, or any delft or earthenware vessel capable of resisting fire; pour into it 2 lbs. or a quart of nearly boiling water; close the vessel hermetically, and place it on hot ashes for twelve hours. At the end of that time draw off the infusion without expressing the cinnamon ; add to it 2 lbs. of sugar coarsely pounded, and boil the whole to grande perle; then take it from the fire, and when about half cold the flavour may be improved by the addition of a few drops of spirit of cinnamon. CINNAMON TINCTURE. Bruise 3 ozs. of fine cinnamon, and pour on it a quart of the best brandy. CINNAMON WAFERS. Pound and sift 6 ozs. of sugar, and put it with an equal quan- tity of melted fresh butter, the same of flour, i oz. of powdered cinnamon, and a small egg. Stir these up in an earthenware vessel, with a sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a thin, but not too clear paste. Make an iron plate quite hot, rub it well with butter, and lav on it a spoonful of the paste. Fry it, and when brown on both sides roll it over the hot iron round a small stick; do this until all the paste is used. CINNAMON WATER. Bruise 2 lbs. of good cinnamon, and steep it, with J lb. of citron and orange-peel, and \ oz. of coriander seeds, in 3 gallons of Malaga sack for two days ; then distil it. Dissolve sugar in rose water; put it to the cinnamon water, and bottle it. CITRATE OF POTASS. Take carbonate of potass, \ oz. and 4 scruples; citric acid, ^oz.; sugar, 2 drachms ; essence of lemon, 2 drops. Mix the above well in a mortar, and keep it dry in a bottle. Thirty grains in a glass of water will make a pleasant beverage. CITRIC ACID is the cause of the grateful sourness in the orange and lemon. One ounce of the crystals dissolved in 1 pint of water is about equivalent to I pint of lemon juice: the solution, however, if kept, is liable to spontaneous decomposition. The following table of equivalents may be found of practical use:— Equivalent Proportions of Concrete Citric Acid and Lemon, Juice necessary for the Neutralisation of Al- kaline Sails. Citric Acid. Lemon Juice, a scrotle of Alkalies. 10 grs. 15 grs. 25 gra. 3 fluid drachms 4 fluid drachms 7 fluid drachms 4 Carbonate of \ Potass 5 Sub - Carbonate i of Potass < Sub - Carbonate \ of Ammonia The juices of many other fruits besides the lemon and lime will furnish the citric acid in abundance, and may be obtained from them by a similar process ; e.g., Vacciiiium oxycoccus, the cranberry; Primus padus, the bird-cherry; Dulcamara solatium, the berry of the night- shade ; Cynosbatus, or Rosa canina, the hip, or fruit of the wild brier. There are many plants whose juices contain combinations of the citric and malic acids in considerable abundance, such as Fragaria vesca, the wood strawberiy, and the common raspberry; Ribes riibrum, the red gooseberry; Vaccinium myriillus, the bil- berry ; Gratccgus aria, the hawthorn; Prunus cerasus, the black cherry, &c. This fact is interesting, since the juices of such fruits have been long known to possess the property of dissolving the tartareous incrustations on the teeth. Lemonade powder is made by mixing very exactly, by rubbing in a mortar, 32 grains of citric acid with 1000 grains of fine loaf sugar which has been previously pounded and sifted through a tamis sieve. Two drops of essential oil of lemons should be incorporated with the powdered sugar before this is mixed with the