[ 113 ] BIS BIS lonsf handle, he slidden over the floor of the oven, so as to deposit and arrange the biscuits thereon. The greatest nicety is required on the part of the man who thus tosses the biscuits on the peel, and he could not perform this evo- lution with the necessary degree of precision if he were at any time obliged to withdraw his eye from the peel in search of the biscuit. The oven is by these means supplied at the rate of 70 biscuits in one minute. The mouth of the oven is necessarily open during the time of its being charged; the heat is, therefore, greater at the beginning than at the end of that operation, and, besides this, the biscuits first deposited are, of com-se, a longer time exposed to heat than the rest. To remedy the irregularity that might be thus occasioned, the pieces of dough are gradually and regularly made of smaller bulk, so that the effect of the cooler oven during a shorter time is equalised. When sufficiently baked the biscuits are placed in the warm atmosphere of rooms (which are well ventilated) over the ovens, and remain there until perfectly dry. In this state it is found that only 102 lbs. of biscuits are procured from 112 lbs. of meal. BISCUIT BREAD. Dry thoroughly fine flour and powder sugar, of each -J lb.; beat up 4 very fresh eggs for ten minutes ; then add the sugar, beat them ten minutes longer, put the flour, and continue beating ten minutes more. Butter your baking plates and bake. Caraway or aniseed seed may be added if you choose. BISCUIT CAKE. One pound of flour, 5 eggs well beaten and strained, 8 ozs. of sugar, a little rose or orange-flower water. Beat the whole thoroughly and bake it for one hour. BISCUIT, CARAWAY. Mix 2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of sugar, 2 ozs. of butter, and 1 oz. of caraway seeds, with 4 eggs and a few spoonsful of water, to make a stiff paste ; roll it thin, cut the cakes in any shape, and bake them on tins. While baking, boil ^ lb. of sugar in a gill of water to a thin syrup ; while both are hot, dip each cake into it, put them into the oven on tins to dry for a short time, and when the oven is cool, put them in again, and let them remain till quite dry. BISCUIT DROPS (1). Pound and sift 1 lb. of fine sugar; take the yolks of 7 and the whites of 10 eggs, and beat well separately for an hour. Dry and sift 1 lb. of fine flour, and when cold mix it with the eggs and sugar; beat altogether for a quarter of an hour. Drop upon paper, sift sugar over, and bake them. BISCUIT DROPS (2). Beat 1 lb. of sugar, the yolks of 4 and the whites of 2 eggs, with a little white wine ; then put in 1 lb. of flour and a few seeds; mix all well together. Butter a paper, lay your batter on in spoonsful, ice them with fine sugar, and set them in a gentle oven. BISCUIT DROPS (3). Take 8 eggs, lib. of double-refined sugar beaten fine, and J 2 ozs. of dry flour. Beat the eggs well, put in the sugar, and continue the beating, adding the flour by degrees, and beat altogether without ceasing. Let your oven be well heated; flour sheets of tin, drop the biscuits thereon, and put them into the oven quickly. Watch them as they rise, and the instant they change colour take them out. If well done they will have the appearance of being finely iced. Caraways may be added. When all are baked put them into the oven again to dry. BISCUIT, ICE-CREAM. Break 6 eggs into a stewpan, and beat them with a wooden spoon ; add 1 pint of cream, the peel of a lemon, 2 gills of syrup, and a little spice; boil it till it begins to thicken, stirring constantly; crumble some Naples and ratafia biscuits into it, pass the whole through a sieve, and put it into the mould, which place in ice as directed. See Ice. BISCUIT, ICED (Royal). Make a Savoy biscuit of 9 eggs, -| lb. of sugar, and 5 ozs. of potato-flour, with the addition of a little pul- verised iris and orange-flower; bake it in an octagon mould, and let it cool. Make an icing with 10 ozs. of sugar and H oz. of eggs ; mix them together with a wooden or silver spoon, putting in a few drops of lemon-juice occasion- ally. When very white divide it into two equal parts, to one of which add a little carmine to make it of a delicate rose colour; with these two icings glaze alternately each angle of the biscuit very carefully; keep it thin and even, and smooth it with the blade of a knife. BISCUIT, NUN'S (The). Take the whites of 12 eggs, and beat them to a froth ; 1 lb. of almonds, blanch them, and beat them with the froth of the whites of eggs as it rises; then take the yolks and 2 lbs. of fine sugar, and beat them well together; mix the almonds with the sugar and eggs ; add ^ lb. of flour, with the peel of 4 grated lemons and some citron shred small. Put the composition in little cake-pans, and bake in a quick oven, and when they are coloured turn the biscuits on tins to harden the bottoms. Be- fore you set them in the oven again sift on them some double-refined sugar. Let the pans be buttered, and fill them half way. BISCUIT, SCOTCH. Take H lb. of flour, pour the third of a pint of boiling water on 9 ozs. of butter; let it stand till nearly cold be- fore you mix it with the flour, adding a few caraway seeds and powder sugar to your taste ; roll them out, but not very thin ; wet them over with a little rose water, and sift sugar over them. BISCUIT, SPICE. Take 3 lbs. of flour, I