APR APR [ 39 ] water, and if they do not spread, your mar- malade is ready to put into pots. Another method of ascertaining when marmalade is done, is by taking some on the end of the finger and thumb, and rubbing them together. If on separating them you find the marmalade forms a thread, it is sufficiently done. APRICOT PETITS GATEAUX (Small Apeicot Cakes). Roll out some puff-paste very thin and divide it into 2 equal parts, each of which should be 13 inches long and 8 inches wide. Moisten a baking-tin to hold one of these layers, on which pour a pot of apricot marmalade and spread it, of an equal thickness, to within ■J inch of the edge of the paste, which moisten lightly; then roll your other layer round your rolling-pin and begin to place it on the first; unroll it gradually and carefully, and thus cover the whole of your marmalade; press the edges of both together, wash the upper layer with yolk of egg, well-beaten, and then with a knife mark a line across the middle, taking care not to go so deep as to divide the paste; with equal care mark three lines on each side and parallel to the first, keeping them at equal distances, say 2 J inches between every line. Then mark it tlie long way, so as to make twenty cakes all of the same size, and bake it in a quick oven, and when the under side is of a good colour you may take it out and glaze. When your gateaux are cold divide them according to the marks, which may be varied to your taste; either lozenges, crescents, circles, &c. When of the above-mentioned form, with the point of a knife, mark on each cake an ear of corn, or any other design you may choose, before baking. Take care, in thus marking the paste, to divide, but not to cut it through. APRICOT PETITS GATEAUX GLACES (Small Apeicot Cakes, Glazed). Make an under crust of puff-paste, which cover with apricot marmalade, carefully removing any particle of the kernels; put it in a moderate oven, and when the paste is sufficiently done take it out and let it cool; then cut your cakes in the usual shapes. The apricots should be of a reddish colour when glazed. APRICOT TART. Cut each apricot in two and break the stones ; if the fruit is not ripe enough, boil a little while in water; then drain them well; put them into paste with sugar, a little preserved lemon, and a few of the kernels; cover the tart, strew sugar over, and glaze it. APRICOT WINE. Pare and take the stones from ripe apricots ; bruise and put them into 6 quarts of water and 1 quart of white wine, simmer gently for a considerable time; when the fruit is soft pour the liquor to apricots pre- pared as the others ; let it stand twelve hours, stirring occasionally; pour off the liquor and press the remains through a fine hair bag, and put them together in a cask to ferment; put in 1 lb. of sugar to each gallon. Boil 1 oz. of mace and ^ oz. of nutmeg in 1 quart of white wine, and while hot pour it into the fermenting wine, and hang a bunch of fresh borage in the cask for three days. Draw it off and keep iu bottles. APRICOTS, BOTTLED. Press the quan- tity of ripe apricots you may require through a horsehair sieve; put the pulp into bottles; cork them very close, and tie them over; place these bottles upright in a large saucepan, with hay between them to prevent their touching; put the saucepan on the fire, and fill it with water. When the water is nearly boiling, take it off and let it stand till the bottles are cold; then put them in a cellar, without touching each other, until wanted, when they will be found as good to use as fresh fruit. The apricots may also be preserved whole by the same means. APRICOTS IN BRANDY. Weigh equal quantities of loaf sugar and apricots; scald them and take off the skin; clarify and boil the sugar; put the fruit into it, and let it remain for two or three days. Put the apricots into glasses. Mix with the syrup the best pale brandy, half and half, and pour it over the apricots, and keep them close covered. Peaches and nectarines may be done in the same way. APRICOTS, DRIED. Pare the apricots, and carefully take out the stones; blanch the kernels, and put them into the apricots; strew over 1 lb. of fruit the same quantity of finely- pounded loaf sugar, and let them stand till the sugar has extracted the juice ; then boil all gently. When the fruit is tender, take it out with care, and boil the syrup till very rich; pour it over the fruit, and in three days put it into dishes, and dry them in the sun under garden glasses, turning once or twice to keep the shape as round as possible. Any inferior apricots may be cut down and boiled in the syrup for tarts. APRICOTS, PRESERVED. Pare your apricots and stone what you can whole; then give them a light boiling in water proportioned to the quantity of fruit, only just enough ; then take the weight of the apricots in sugar, and take the liquor in which they have boiled, and the sugar, and boil it till it comes to a syrup, and give them a light boiling, taking off the scum as it rises. When the syrup jellies it is done enough; then take up the apricots and cover them with the jelly; put cut paper over them, and lay them down when cold. APRIL. The articles which axe in season during this month are—