CRA CRA [ 8C5 ] paste, the meat of the body of the crab, and some bread grated. Fill the shells with this compound, and also make some of it into balls ; put them into a dish with white wine and butter, and bake them in a gentle oven. When they are baked put them into another dish, and serve them with beaten butter, large mace, scalded grapes, gooseberries, or barberries, slices of orange or lemon, and the yolks- of raw eggs dissolved in claret or white wine, and beaten up with thick butter. Pour this on the fish; garnish with slices of lemon; stick the balls of farced meat with pistachios, sliced almonds, pine-apple seeds, or some pretty cuts in paste. CRAB PIE. Take half a dozen crabs, boil them, and take the meat out of the shells ; season it with salt and nutmeg; then soak the meat taken out of the bodies with claret wine, cinnamon, some ginger, butter, and juice of orange. Make your pie, put some butter on the bottom, lay in the meat, with artichoke bottoms, the yolks of three or four hard eggs chopped small, asparagus, large mace, barberries, grapes, dates, slices of orange, and butter. When it is baked liquor it with some meat out of the bodies of the crabs, mingled with cream and draNvn butter. CRABS. Though not so well known as the lobster the crab is looked upon by many as being a better flavoured fish, and perhaps rather more digestible. The female is considered inferior to the male, and may be known by the claws being smaller and its tail broader. The heaviest are usually thought to be the best, but those of a middling size are the sweetest. If light they are watery. When in perfection the joints of the legs are stiff. The shell, whether alive or dead, should be of a bright red, and the body has a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead and loose when stale, or when the fish has died a natural death. They are boiled in the same manner as lobsters, but require rather .longer time, and are most usually eaten cold with oil and vinegar, thus:—Pick out all the fish from the shell, divide it into small pieces, mixing the rich part well with the rest. Moisten it with salad dressing, and return it to the shell, with an edge all round of sliced lemon. If hot pick the fish out as above; then put the meat, with a little nutmeg, salt, pepper, bits of butter, crumbs of bread, and three spoonsful of vinegar, into the shell again, and set it before the fire. You may brown it with a salamander, but it should always be served in the shell. Dry toast should be served to eat with it. CRABS: To Boil. Choose your crab of the middling size ; put it into boiling water with salt in it; keep it boiling for about three quarters of an hour. When done wipe the shell quite clean, and rub it over with a little butter. Before they are sent to table the large claws should be broken off, the shell cracked carefully, the tail cut down the middle, and the body sent up whole. CRABS (bkowned in the Shells). Leave tlie great shell whole, mince all the fish, shred some parsley, mushrooms, or truffles, and a little young onion; fry these; put in the minced crab, with the inside bruised, some pepper, salt, and grated lemon-peel; stir these about, shake on some flour, and add a little lemon juice, with some good gravy. Let this simmer up; fill the shell or shells ; strew over bread crumbs; brown in a Dutch oven or with a salamander. CRABS, BUTTERED. Pick out the fish, bruise the inside, beat it in a little gravy, with a little wine, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, a few bread crumbs, a piece of butter, a very little flour, and some vinegar or lemon juice. CRACKERS, SOAKED. Pour boiling water on crackers; put in some butter aud a little salt; cover them closely, and keep them warm till tea is ready. If you have milk boil it, and pour it over instead of water. Tbis is easily prepared. CRACKNELS. Mix 1 quart of flour, half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of 4 eggs beaten, with 4 spoonsful of rose water, into a stiff paste with cold water; then rub in 1 lb. of butter, and make into a cracknel shape; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim; then take them out, and put them in cold water. When hardened lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. CRACKNELS, SOFT. Blanch i lb. of sweet almonds, and pound them to a fine paste, adding to them by degrees 6 eggs. When thoroughly pounded pour on them 1 lb. of powder sugar, the same of butter, and the rinds of 2 lemons grated ; beat up these ingredients in the mortar; put 1 lb. of flour on the slab, and, having poured in the almonds, knead them together till they are well incorporated; roll it out, and cut the cracknels into such forms as you think proper; rub them with yolk of egg, and strew over them powder sugar or cinnamon ; then lay them on a buttered tin, and bake them in a moderate oven, taking great care that they do not burn. When done put them into glasses, and if preserved in a dry place they are the better for keeping. CRACKNUTS. Mix together 8 ozs. of flour and 8 ozs. of sugar; melt 4 ozs. of butter in 2 spoonsful of raisin wine; then with 4 eggs beaten and strained make it into a paste; add caraways, roll it out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of aa egg, and dust sugar over. CRAMP. This, which is adopted as a term in common use, is here confined to cramp as