ANO ANG [ 19 ] barrels are opened the fish are found to be small, firm, and round-backed, with a silvery skin, red flesh, and plump, compact form, they are probably true anchovies. If, on the contrary, they taper much towards the tail, are dark brown on the outside, and the flesh is pale and flabby, they are probably Sardines {Engraulus meletta), another Mediterranean species, and much in- ferior. ANCHOVY BUTTER. Wash your an- chovies carefully, and dry them after taking out the bones; then pound them in a mortar until they are reduced to a paste, and mix this paste thoroughly with double the quantity of fresh "buttiGr ANCHOVY ESSENCE. Take lib. of anchovies, 2 quarts of water, 2 bay leaves, a little whole pepper, a little scraped horse-radish, a little thyme, 2 blades of mace, 6 shallots, chopped small, 1 gill of port wine, half the rind of a lemon, 1 gill of catsup; boil them together for twenty minutes ; then rub them through a tammy cloth with a wooden spoon. When cold, put it into pint bottles; cork them close, and keep in a dry place. ANCHOVY OMELET. Wash the salt from a dozen anchovies, and lay them in cold water for a quarter of an hour; cut them in slips, and place them on thin slices of bread fried in oil; beat up a dozen eggs, and season them well; put some olive oil in a frying-pan, and, when it begins to boil, put in half the eggs to form the omelet. When done, place it on a dish, and lay the anchovy toast on it; then form the second omelet with the rest of the eggs, and put it over the toast. Serve with any sauce you please. ANCHOVY POWDER is made by beating equal weights of anchovies and wheat flour into a paste, rolling it out into thin cakes, and when dried reducing them to a fine powder in a mortar, and passing the powder through a sieve. It should be in bottles, well corked, and in a dry place. Sprinkle it on dry toast, after it has been buttered, by means of a dredger. ANCHOVY SALAD. Dress a young cos lettuce, as usual, garnished with eggs, boiled hard and sliced, and herbs, &c., cut small; add a dozen anchovies, well cleaned and cut into slips. ANCHOVY SAUCE. Pound 3 anchovies in a mortar with a little bit of butter; rub the whole through a double-hair sieve with the back of a wooden spoon, and stir what comes through into almost i pint of melted butter; or stir in 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovy. To the above many cooks add lemon-juice and Cayenne. Serve very hot. ANCHOVY TOAST. Bone and wash the anchovies; pound them in a mortar with a little fresh butter; rub them through a sieve, and lay them on the toast. You may add, while pound- ing the anchovies, a little made mustard and curry powder, or a few grains of Cayenne, or a little mace or other spice. It may be made still more savoury by frying the toast in clarified butter.—N.B. Keep your anchovies well co- vered. First, tie down your jar with a bladder moistened with vinegar, and then wiped dry; tie leather over that. When you open a jar, moisten the bladder, and it will come off easily. As soon as you have taken out the fish replace the covering; the air soon changes the colour of, and spoils anchovies. ANCLE, SPRAINED. &e Strains. ANDERSON'S SCOTCH PILLS. Barba- does aloes, 1 oz.; black hellebore root, jalap, and purified carbonate of potash, of each ^ drachm; oil of aniseed, 24 drops ; simple syrup enough to form the mass. Make into 6-grain pills ; one, two, or three to be taken as required. They are gently cathartic, and promote di- gestion. ANDOUILLES. See Calves' Chitterlings. ANGELICA CAKES. Take 4 ozs. of an- gelica powder and 2 lbs. of fine sugar; beat up the white of 1 egg, with a little sifted sugar, until it is of the consistence of cream cheese; dissolve the sugar in a skillet, and skim it; when it has boiled a little put in the angelica, and boil the sugar until well frothed; tlien take it from the fire, put in half a spoonful of the beaten egg, and stir it quickly until the sugar rises; then stop, and when it has fallen again, stir it until it rises a second time. It may now be poured into moulds or paper cases, well oiled and sprinkled with sifted sugar. ANGELICA CANDY. Gather the young stalks of angelica in April; cut them in proper lengths ; lay them for some days in brine ; wash them in fresh water; boil them in a close- covered sweatmeat-pan till quite tender; string, scald, and simmer them again till green ; wipe and weigh them, and sift over them the same weight of double-refined sugar; let them remain in it for two days, and then boil them in it till clear; drain and boil the sugar again; put in the angelica for a moment; lay them to harden near the fire, or in an oven or stove. ANGELICA LIQUOR. Wash, scrape, and cut in small pieces 12 ozs. of fresh, or half the quantity of Bohemian angelica roots, and infuse them for a week in 6 pints of brandy and 1 pint of water, with 1 drachm of mace, 2 drachms of cinnamon, and 12 cloves. At the end of that time distil it; then dissolve 3 lbs. of sugar in 3 pints of water; mix it with the liquor distilled over; strain it through a jelly-bag or filter it through blotting paper. ANGELICA RATAFIA. Strip the angelica