[ 243 ] CAR CAR CARVING: Beef, Buttock of, is always boiled, and requires no figure to point out how it sliould be carved. A thick slice should be cut off all round the buttock that your friends may be helped to the juicy. The outside thus cut off thin slices may be cut from the top; but as it is a dish that is frequently brought to table cold a second day it should always be cut handsomely and even. When a slice all round would be considered too much the half, or a third, may be given, with a thin slice of fat. On one side there is a part whiter than ordinary, by some called the white muscle. In Wiltshire and the neighbouring counties a buttock is generally divided, and this white part sold separately as a delicacy; but it is by no means so, the meat being coarse and dry; whereas the darker co- loured parts, though of apparently a coai'ser gi-ain, are of a looser texture, more tender, fuller of gravy, and better flavoured, and men of distinguishing palates ever prefer them. Beef, Edge or Aitch-bone of. As the out- side suffers in its flavour from the water in which it is boiled the dish should be turned towards the carver as here represented, and a thick slice should be first cut off the whole length of the joint from a to b. The soft fat, resembling marrow, is on the back below the letter c, and the firm fat should be cut in thin, horizontal slices at the point d. The upper part is certainly the handsomest in appearance, fullest of gravy, most tender, and encircled with fat. However, some prefer the under side, which is lean. The skewer at a should be drawn out before the meat is sent to table, or, if one is actually necessary, a silver one should be substituted. Beef, Ribs of. The best manner of carving this joint is to cut across the bone, commencing in the centre, and serving fat from a, as marked in the engraving of the sirloin. Another way is to carve the slices from a to c, commencing either in the centre of the joint or at the sides. When the bones are removed and the meat formed into a fillet, it should be carved as a round of beef. Beef, Sirloin of. The under part of the sirloin should be first served, and carved across the bone. lu carving the upper part the same directions should be followed as for the ribs, carving either side or in the centre, from a to c, and helping the fat from c. CARVING: Calf's Head. It should be cut along the cheek-bone, in the fleshy part, in the direction c b, from which two or three handsome slices may be obtained. Part of the throat sweet- bread is situated in the fleshy part at the end of the jaw-bone; this is cut in the line c d, and e<?!teemed the best part in the head. The eye considered by some as a very tit-bit, and, to take this from its socket a, the point of your carving-knife should be forced down on one side of it, taking care, whilst cutting round, to keep the point of the blade slanting towards the inside, by this means detaching the meat from the bone. The palate is found on the under side of the roof of the mouth; by lifting the head up with your left hand it may easily be separated from the bone. Some good meat may be cut from the under side, covering the under jaw, and some fat pared from the ear. Th& brains and tongue should be served in a separate dish. The thick part of the tongue is best. Fish. See Fish. Ham. This may be cut three ways, but the most common method is, to begin in the middle, by taking long slices perpendicularly to the bone from the centre through the thick fat. This brings to the prime at once, and, by cutting a