CAE CaK [ 199 ] These directions are given to be applied to «a.ch of the following recipes, and are now given to avoid the useless repetition in each recipe. CAKE, ABERDEEN CRULLA. Beat to a cream i lb. of fresh butter, and mix with it the same quantity of pounded and sifted loaf sugar, and 4 well-beaten eggs; add flour till thick enough to roll out; cut the paste into ob- long pieces about four or five inches in length; with a paste-cutter divide the centre into three or four strips; wet the edges, and plait one bar over the other so as to meet the centre ; throw them into boiling lard or clarified suet. When fried of a light brown, drain them before the fire, and serve them in a napkin, with or with- out grated loaf sugar strewed over them. CAKE, ABERFRAU. See Abeefeau. CAKE, ALBANY. Sift 3 lbs. of flour into a pan. Stir together 1 lb. of fresh butter and 1 lb. of brown sugar. Mix together 1 pint of West India molasses and ^ pint of rich milk. Have ready 1^ lb. of seeded raisins cut in two, and well dredged with flour to prevent their sinking. Beat 5 eggs very lightly, and mix them gradually with the milk and molasses, adding 1 glass of brandy and 1 table-spoonful of pow- dered cinnamon. Add the mixture gradually to the beaten butter and sugar alternately with the flour, a little at a time of each; next stir in a small tea-cupful of strong, fresh yeast; then sprinkle in the raisins; lastly, stir in a very small tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, or a still smaller portion of saleratus, dissolved in as much lukewarm water as will cover it. Stir the whole mixture long and hard; cover it, and set it in a warm place to rise. When quite light butter a deep tin pan, put in the mixture, and bake it in a loaf. It will require very long and steady baking. Like all others that have yeast in them this cake is best when fresh. CAKE, ALLIANCE. Prepare your ingre- dients the same as described in the receipt for Parisian Cake ; then add J lb. of well-washed dry currants, 4 ozs. of muscatel raisins, 1 oz. of preserved cedrat, cut into small strips, 1 oz. of candied orange, cut in the same manner, and a glass of Spanish wine, or a glass of rum. Mix the whole together, and finish the same as for Parisian Cake, and let it bake three hours. This cake is very good eaten cold, but is much nicer cut into rather thin slices, and just browned by broiling, then placed upon a dish, and marked all over with powdered sugar. CAKE, ALMOND. See Almond Cake. CAKE, ANISEED. See Aniseed. CAKE, APPLE. See Apple Cakes. CAKE, BABA. See Baba. CAKE, BAIRN BRACK. To 3 lbs. of dried flour allow 1 lb. of fresh butter, 1 lb. of good brovm sugar, S ozs. of caraway seeds, 8 well- beaten eggs, 8 table-spoonsful of fresh yeast, and some grated nutmeg. Dissolve the butter in 1 pint of milk, so as to make the whole into a dough, not very stiff; work it well; cover it with a cloth, and set it before the fire to rise. When well risen bake it in a buttered tin. When it becomes dry it may be toasted, and eaten with butter. CAKE, BANBURY. See Banbury Cakes. CAKE, BATH. Rub into 2 lbs. of flour 1 lb. of butter, and mix with 1 pint of milk, a little warmed, J pint of fresh yeast, 4 well-beaten eggs, and 1 tea-spoonful of salt. Cover it, and let it stand before the fire to rise for three quarters of an hour. Make it into thick cakes about the size of the inside of a dinner plate; bake them in a quick oven; then cut them into three, that the middle slice, as also the top and bottom, may be well buttered. Serve them very hot. CAKE, BOLAR. Take 1 lb. of flour dried in a slow oven, 2 spoonsful of yeast, soma almond milk, and water, to mix for a sponge. When raised beat up f lb. of clarified butter, 3 eggs, and f lb. of sugar well beaten till the' spoon comes clean away; then add cinnamon powder, candied orange and lemon. Bake in earthen basins well buttered. Keep it before the fire till put in the oven. CAKE, BOLAR (Dutch). Make as above, without sugar; then prick holes with a sharp- pointed knife, and while it is hot pour in J lb; of clarified sugar, flavoured with cinnamon or orange flower. Almonds and sweetmeats are previously put in the cake. Ornament your cake with harlequin sugar-plums. This was a favourite cake of Queen Charlotte. CAKE, BONNET. Boil in i pint of water for ten minutes a bit of cinnamon and lemon- peel ; strain, and mix it with 3 table-spoonsful of flour, and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes; add a bit of butter the size of a wal- nut. When cold mix in the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, a little salt and pepper; beat it well; drop a dessert-spoonful of the mixture into boiling lard, then drain them upon the back of a sieve, and when served throw over pounded loaf sugar. Instead of the salt and pepper a little preserve may be dropped upon each be- fore the sugar is thrown over. CAKE, BOSTON. Put 1 lb. of powdered white sugar into a deep pan, and cut up in it 1 lb. of fresh butter. Stir the butter and sugar together till perfectly light; then add a powdered nutmeg, a table-spoonful of powdered mace and cinnamon mixed together, and a large wine- glass of excellent brandy. If the brandy is of bad quality it will give the cake a disagreeable taste ;• if very good it will highly improve the flavour, and also add to the lightness of the