FRE FRE [ 526 ] Ono of the best applications for dispersing freckles is a naixture of bullock's gall with a solution of alum, which, after the latter has subsided, must be digested in the sun for three or four months in a close phial. Another preparation is made by taking 4 ozs. of lemon juice, and mixing with it 2 drachms of sugar, and 1 drachm of borax finely powdered, and after these ingredients have stood a week or a fortnight in a glass bottle the liquor will be fit for use. As, however, freckles generally vanish during the winter, and have been obser\'ed to re-appear in early spring, the sharp morning air of which, though salubrious, is said to be un- commonly favourable to their reproduction, perhaps the most easy method of preventing them would be a careful attention to this circumstance. FREEMAN'S BATHING SPIRITS. Dis- solve 2 lbs. of soft soap and 2J ozs. of camphor in a mixture of 1 pint of spirit of wine and 1 pint of water. It differs but little from opodeldoc, and like it is used for removing pains by rubbing on the part affected. FREEZING MIXTURES are very useful for cooling water and wine, for rendering jelly, &c., firm, for making ices, and for medical applications where great cold is required. , Mix together lib. of nitrate of ammonia, 1 lb. of carbonate of soda, and 1 lb. of water. It will reduce the temperature to 7° below zero, or 39' below the cold which freezes water. Mix together 3 lbs. of sulphate of soda and 2 lbs. of diluted nitric acid. The temperature will fall to 30° below zero, or 02° below the freezing cold of water. Mix together 2 lbs. of snow or of pounded ice, and 1 lb. of common salt. The temperature will fall to 5° below zero. Mix together 2 lbs. of snow or pounded ice, and 3 lbs. of chloride of calcium. The tem- perature will fall to 50° below zero. FREEZING OF PIPES ANT) VESSELS. If any portion of the pipe or vessel is full the expansive power has very nearly as much effect upon the parts in contact as if it was full to the brim, and hermetically sealed. A pipe laid quite horizontally, and only partially filled, will not burst, because the water in freezing has room to expand ; but if it should incline from the level anywhere, so as to become Jilled in that particular part, the consequence would be a a-upture. The remedy for this is to take care that in frosty weather the water is not suffered to remain in the pipe, but drawn off' with force pumps. This is accomplished by means of a small plug, which is drawn out after a suffi- cient quantity of water is pumped, leaving the cylinder empty ; and the same may be effected with pipes leading about a house if the pre- caution is taken to place a stop-cock just out- side the tank, and a plug or small cork in the lowest part of the pipe, wherever it may be (and some convenient spot might be selected), so as to drain the water off whenever frost is. apprehended. The portion of pipe (a short piece) between the bottom of the tank and the ebop-cock should be very strong, and might be covered with straw or matting to prevent it freezing. With the water pipes fitted as we have described there will never be danger of a rupture unless from the neglect of servants. Water-closets seldom freeze, because the apparatus is so contrived as to shut the valve within the tank, and leave the pipe empty after each discharge. The same principle may be applied to the conducting pipes, or secured by the simple process of placing a stop-cock in the position we have described, but, if the pipe has a continual inclination, leaving the inner end open during frosty weather as soon as the stop- cock is shut. Water-bottles, ewers, &c., should not be allowed to stand with w'ater in to freeze i and bottles of preserves, of wine, beer, spiritSj or, in fact, any liquids, should be guarded against the effects of frost, which not only injures the quality of the liquor, but will probably burst the bottles. Above all things, vessels containing liquid should never be placed in positions where, by bursting, the contents would flow over and damage anything beneath. , ,i FRENCH BEANS. Cut off the stalk end first, and then turn to the point and strip off the strings. If not quite fresh have a bowl of spring water with a little salt dissolved in it standing before you, and as the beaus are cleaned and stringed throw them in. When all are done put them on the fire in boiling water with some salt in it; after they have boiled fifteen or twenty minutes take one out and taste it. As soon as they are tender take them up, and throw them into a cullender or sieve to drain. FRENCH BEANS FOR WINTER USE. Gather them when young, and on a dry day; put ■ a layer of salt into a jar, and then one of about two inches thick of leaves; do this till the jar is nearly full; place a small plate upon the top of them, and tie a bladder closely over the jar. Keep it in a cool, dry place. When to be used soak them a night in cold water, and change it on them repeatedly in the course of the day they are to be dressed; cut them, and put them on in boiling water. FRENCH CHALK has no chalk nor any other salt of lime in it, being one of those popular names so calculated to mislead as " green copperas," which is a salt of iron without a particle of copper; and " blacklead," which is really a fine hard charcoal without an atom of