CAN CAN [ 224 ] a vessel of silver, and inelt thera over the fire. When it just boils strain it, set it on the fire again, and let it boil till it draws in hairs, which you may perceive by holding up your spoon ; then put in the flowers, and set them in cups or glasses. When it is of a hard candy break it in lumps, and lay it as high as you please. Dry it in a stove, or in the sun, and it will look like sugar-candy. CANDIED FRUITS. When finished in the syrup put a layer into a new sauce, and dip it suddenly into hot water to take off the syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more on the sieve. Have ready sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides till quite ■white. Set it on the shallow end of the sieves in a lightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be beautiful. CANDIED GINGER. Put 1 oz. of ginger, grated fine, and 1 lb. of sifted sugar into a pre- serving-pan with as much water as will dissolve it. Stir them well together over a slow fire till the sugar begins to boil; then add another 1 lb., stirring constantly till it thickens. Take it from the fire, drop it on earthen dishes, set them in a warm place; to dry, and they will be hard and brittle, and look white. CANDIED GREENGAGES. Whenfinished in the syrup put a layer into a clean sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water to take off the syrup that hangs about it; then put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more on the sieve. Have ready some sifted double-refined sugar, sift this all over every part of the fruit till it is perfectly white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves in a lightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully CANDIED LEMON-PEEL. Take some lemon-peels and clean them well from the pulp, and let them lay two days in salt and water; then scald and drain them dry; boil them in a thin syrup made with fine loaf sugar; put them into it, and simmer them till the sugar candies about the pan and peels. Then lay them sepa- rately on a hair sieve to drain; strew sifted sugar over them, and set them to dry in a slow oven. CANDIED NUTMEGS. Take IJIb. of double-refined sugar, ^ quartern of damask rose water, and a very little gum arabic; boil these to a candy height. Let your nutmegs be first soaked in water; then put them into an earthen pan, pour your candy to them, keep them very closely covered, set them in a warm place for about three weeks, and they will be of a rock candy. CANDIED ORANGE PEEL. Take some orange-peel and let it soak in several waters till it has lost its bitterness ; then boil it in a solu- tion of double-refined sugar in water till it be- comes tender and transparent. CANDIED PLUMS. Choose your plums of a nice shape and good size ; cut them in halves, lay them on a large shallow dish, strew powder sugar over, and put them into a moderate oven tightly closed; in half an hour's time take them out, and place the plums one by one on glass plates to dry. CANDIED ROSES. Crisp two handsful of rose leaves in some clarified sugar, which boil to fort souffle; then take the pan from the fire, pour the contents on a sieve, let the syrup run from the leaves, rubbing the latter in your hands, and then dry them in a stove. Boil your sugar again to soufHe, adding a little carmine to colour it. Have a proper mould ready, pour the sugar into it, and put the flowers on it; push them down lightly with a fork, that they may be completely covered with the sugar; place the mould in a moderate oven or stove for five days, then drain off the syrup ; lay a sheet of paper on the table, and turn the candy quickly out of the mould. CANDIED VIOLETS. Pick off the stalks from some double violets ; boil some sugar to soufHe, put in the violets, and keep them in till the sugar again boils to souffle; then rub the sugar against the sides of the pan until it is white; stir all together till the sugar leaves the violets, and then sift and dry them. See Candled Fruits and CLARrFViNO. CANDLES. These souixes of light are made of tallow, composite (which is some fatty sub- stance with much arsenic added), spermaceti, and wax. The wicks are formed of threads of cotton, sometimes straight, sometimes plaited, and at other times interwoven with veiy fine wire. Candles are made by merely dipping the wicks into melted fat, or by pouring this into moulds around the wick. For the following particulars we are chiefly indebted to the "Magazine of Domestic Economy:"—Mould candles are made of fine mutton suet, mixed with a certain proportion of ox tallow, to give the candles gloss, compactness, and consistence. The dips are made of a coai'ser material, con- sisting of the grosser and more rancid fats, that form together the substance or commercial com- modity, composed of all kinds of fat and animal grease and drippings, and denominated' tallow. To prepare the tallow for candle-making it is first sorted, by separating the finer parts from the coarse. Each is then cut into small pieces, and melted separately. The sooner the melting takes place after the fat is separated from the slaughtered animal the better, because the mus- cular fibre and other animal matters mixed w.th it tend to make it putrefy. The best mode of