C 4i6 ] DYS 2 scruples ; rhubarb, 5 grains; powdered nut- constitutions there is almost constant thirst. of logwood, 1 drachm ; chalk mixture, 4 ozs. tiucture of catechu, 2 drachms ; spirit of nut- meg, 1 oz. Two table-spoonsful every four hours. Or, take aromatic confection, \ \ drachm; cinnamon water, 5 ozs.; spirit of pimento, 1 oz.; tincture of kino, from 1 to 2 drachms. To be taken as the former, adding to each dose 10 drops of the tincture of opium. During the time the patient is using these astringent remedies he may take port wine and water or weak brandy and water as his ordinary drink. The tone of the intestines may be restored by the use of tonics and bitters, such as decoction of bark, gentian, &c., together with light nutritious diet and moderate exercise. All food which runs readily into putrefaction should be avoided during the course of the dis- ease, as well as fermented and spirituous liquors. The patient's strength should be supported with preparations of barley, rice, sago, flour, Indian arrowroot boiled in milk, varied occasionally for jellies and gelatinous broths, by warm clothing, &c. As dysentery is generally con- sidered infectious every precaution should be taken to prevent the disease from spreading, by means of free ventilation and cleanliness, moving the patient's stools, sprinkling the room and bedclothes with a little warm vinegar, often changing the body and bed linen, &c. DYSPEPSIA. This disease or derangement of the digestive organs, according to a very eminent surgeon, is the cause of almost all the complaints which the " flesh is heir to." It arises principally in adults from between thirty to forty yeai s of age, and is most frequently met with in people who lead sedentary or irregular lives, in those who are much devoted to study, &c. There is one peculiarity attendant on this disease, that is, it may, and often does, continue for a considerable length of time without any increase or diminution of the symptoms. Among the causes which commonly occasion indigestion are the following, viz., affections of the mind, such as great grief; an inactive life, profuse dis- charges, spirituous liquors, intense study, excess in venery, hard drinking, particularly of warm diluent liquors, such as tea, &c.; immoderate repletion, the use of tobacco, opium, and other stupefactive substances, diminution or interrup- tion of the due secretion of the saliva, deficient secretion of bile, &c., diseases of the liver and spleen, exposure to sudden transitions of heat and cold, &c. The symptoms are, furred and white tongue, a disagreeable taste in the mouth in the morning, vnd the breath in most instances, notwithstanding the greatest care, acquires an offensive smell. With hard drinkers nausea and vomiting fre- quently occur in the morning, and in ruined feverishness, loss of appetite and strength, shortness of breath, pale countenance, languor, and towards the close dropsical swellings. In addition to defective appetites, in complaints of the stomach there is a high degree of flatulency, acidity, and heartburn; the patient is frequently afflicted with costiveness, swimming in the head, ringing in the ears, palpitations of the heart, &c.; and although dyspeptic complaints may be alleviated or removed by desisting in time from bad habits, and taking proper medicines, never- theless, when they are of long continuance, so as to bring on a considerable degree of weakness, and pass into other diseases, or when they originate in organic aff"ections, they will most assuredly prove fatal. In addition to the symptoms above enumerated the mind is frequently excessively irritable and depressed, and great anxiety is observable in the countenance. The slightest exercise is produc- tive of considerable fatigue and perspiration. During the night restlessness prevails, the sleep is unrefreshing, and disturbed with frightful dreams and startings, and occasionally with moajiings and a sense of heavy weight on the chest (the nightmare). It may also be compli- cated with other complaints. In the treatment of dyspepsy three things are to be attended to. Firstly, to avoid or re- ipove the causes of the complaint; secondly, to remove the symptoms which contribute to, or which tend to aggravate, the disease; thirdly, to restore, if possible, the tone of the stomach. In effecting the first of these intentions the patient should implicitly renounce those habits and pursuits which laid the foundation of the disease, that he may not defeat the benefit of the measures employed, by observing the most rigid temperance and regularity, removing to fresh pure air, shunning luxurious tables and inactivity, observing regular hours, rising early in the morning, walking out in the fields, using simple diet, abstaining from drinking, smoking, &c.; in short, by avoiding all the causes which give rise to the disease. In the second place, and with the second intention in view, the symptoms which continue to contribute to, or aggravate, the disease must be obviated, if possible, by clearing out the stomach by means of a gentle emetic^ such, for instance, as any of those forms already prescribed; by correcting acidities by means of alkaline remedies, such as magnesia, chalk, lime water, &c.; by taking 3 or 4 fluid ozs. of the latter, or the following:—Take magnesia, 3 drachms ; rhubarb, 1 scruple ; pure water, 4 ozs.; cinnamon water, 1 oz.; compound tincture of lavender, ■J drachm ; of which two table-spoonsfitl three times a day may be given. Or, take magnesia,