CHA CHA [ 265 ■) paring them; the marine and nitrous acids are decomposed by being distilled upon it; the red juices of vegetable fruits are deprived of their colour without losing part of their acidity; brown, rancid oils are rendered sweet and clear by agitating them for some days with charcoal in powder; it changes the smell of putrid vegetables to that of a pure volatile alkali, and produces the same effect on fresh meat. By boiling charcoal in powder with honey the pure saccha- rine parts of the latter are said to be separated, and the honey to become a well-tasted sugar. Vinegar concentrated by freezing, and distilled from a large portion of powdered charcoal, is extremely strong, pure, and fragrant. Corn- spirit merely shaken with charcoal loses its bad flavour, and if honey be added it becomes a sweet and pleasant liquor. Even the tainted flavour of ardent spirits, when impregnated with any vegetable oils, may in a similar manner be destroyed ; and if the spirit be distilled the residuum is said not to be browii, so that no inconvenience will arise from carrying the dis- tillation too far. There are considerable differences in the charcoals of various vegetables with respect to their habitude to fire. The very light charcoals of linen, cotton, some fungi, &c., quickly catch fire from a spark, and soon consume; the more dense ones of woods and roots are set on fire with greater difficulty, and burn more slowly. The charcoals of the blackberry-bearing alder, of the hazel, willow, and lime tree are the most proper for making gunpowder and other pyro- technical compositions. For the reduction of metallic calces those of heavier wood, as oak and beech, are preferable, because these appear to contain a larger proportion of the inflamma- ble principle, and perhaps in a more fixed state. Considered as common fuel those of the heavy ■woods afford the greatest heat, and require a most abundant supply of air in order to keep them burning. On the contrary, the charcoals of the light woods retain a glowing heat till they are consumed without a strong draught of air; the bark usually crackles while burning, which is seldom the case with the charcoal of the wood itself Charcoal is likewise of considerable service to different artists for polishing brass and cop- per plates after they have been rubbed clean with powdered pumice-stone. Horn plates may be polished in a similar manner, and a gloss afterwards given them with tripoli. Coals of different substances are also used as pigments; hence the bone and ivory-black of the shops. Most paints of this kind are not only incor- ruptible, but also possess the advantage of a full colour, and work freely in all the forms where powdery pigments are employed; but they ought to be carefully prepared by tho- roughly burning the substance in a close vessel, and afterwards reducing the coal to a fine powder. In drawing outlines the artist avails himself of pieces of charcoal, the marks of which may be easily rubbed out. For this purpose the smaller branches of a tree, such as the willow and vine, are usually preferred, and which, after being freed from the bark and pith, afford the best drawing-pencils. CHARD AU GRAS. Blanch and dress the chards as celery; boil them quickly in watei% with salt and a little butter; drain, and put them in a stewpan, with butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and blond. When nearly done add a little verjuice or vinegar. Thicken the sauce, and serve quite hot. CHARD A LA VENITIENNE. Prepare the chards in the same manner as Chard au Gras, and finish in the same manner as for Cardoons tn Cheese. CHARLOTTE (I). Cut a sufficient number of thin slices of white bread to cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking-dish, first rubbing it thickly with butter. Put thin slices of apple into the dish in layers till the dish is full, strewing sugar and bits of butter between. In the meantime soak as many thin slices of bread as will cover the whole in warm milk ; over this place a plate and a weight, to keep the bread close upon the apples. Let it bake slowly for three hours. For a middling-sized dish you should use ^ lb. of butter for the whole. CHARLOTTE (2). This may be made with any kind of fruit you please, and is eaten hot. If apples are used pare, core, and cut about a score of them in small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with some water, a good piece of fresh butter, powdered sugar, pounded cinna- mon, and grated lemon-peel, and stew till the ■water is dried up ; then set them to cool in an earthenware vessel. Cut some very thin slices of crumb of bread, dip them in melted fresh butter, and lay them neatly all over the bottom and round the sides of the stewpan; then pour in the apples, leaving a hole in the middle, in which put apricot marmalade. Cover the whole with bread sliced thin, and buttered as above. Place it in a hot oven, bake it an hour, and turn it out. CHARLOTTE A LAPARISIENNE. Take ^Ib. of well-glazed spoon biscuits and a small case of green pistachio biscuits, ■which must be cut in thin slices, and then formed into lozenges; arrange these at the bottom of a plain octagon mould in the form of a star, and with the re- mainder cover the sides of the mould, placing them upright, and the glazed sides next to the mould. Fill the interior with a \3Lni\\a, fromage iavarois, but do not put it in till the moment