BLI [ 126 ] BLI in the catan'li of children. The seeds are emulsive. From 1 to 2 drachms of the infusion is the usual dose. BLINDS. To prevent these hlowing out under the open sashes in windy weather rings should be fixed in each end of the bottom rod, and guide-lines, fastened to the top and bottom of the window-frame, be passed through the rings. Whether blinds be put up by a car- penter or one of the household it is usual to fasten the top of the blind to the roller with tacks before it is sewn on. The consequence is, that in the event of rain beating in upon the upper part, the tacks rust, and frequently cause stains of ironmould to appear through four or five folds of the hoUand. To remedy this let the roller be carefully pierced quite through, straight and even, with a small gimlet, in five or seven equidistant spaces, so that a large needle and coarse thread can be passed through it. The blind may thus be retained in its position with even greater facility than can be accomplished by means of nails. Many persons are accustomed to have their blinds entirely un- made prior to their being washed; but if they be carefully mangled, we see no necessity to cause so much extra work. When new ones are required it is essential to know that the selvages of the holland must be cut off, or the blinds will hang unequally, from the con- traction of the sides, down which the selvages would extend. BLISTER. A blister is a local inflamma- tion, accompanied by the formation or collection of serum in bladders of the outer skin, and is of the most imminent service in many complaints. The agent usually employed for blistering is the cantharides, or Spanish fly; but we are pos- sessed of a great variety of indigenous plants which might be effectually substituted. Hence we recommend, from experience, the following: —1. Mustard seed mixed with vinegar sufficient to convert it into a thick paste, to be spread upon linen; 2. The fresh root of the horseradish, grated, or in fine shavings ; 3. The bruised leaves of the different species of the ranunculus, or crowfoot; 4. The leaves of the Polygonum hydropiper, or water-pepper, growing wild on the banks of rivulets; 5. The most powerful of all indigenous vegetables, the Daphne Mezereum, or spurge olive, every part of which is extremely acrid, but the rind is-preferably used for blisters. AVhether fresh or dried this rind should be pre- viously steeped for a few hours in strong vine- gar, and then a piece about 1 inch broad and 2 or 3 inches long tied over-night to the part. After it has sufficiently drawn, the blistered place is covered with an ivy leaf, and a similar vesicatory is applied contiguous to the former. In this manner it is continued, according to particular circumstances, especially in chronic diseases, till the desired effect is attained. Where no time is to be lost, we advise the use of mustard seed, as before described, with the addition of a little salt, which greatly increases its efficacy. These cataplasms are often more proper than the blisters prepared with Spanish flies, because the former operate more speedily, and act with less violence on the fluids than the latter. Hence they are of eminent service to promote critical eruptions ; to prevent the small- pox from breaking out on the face, when ap- plied at the commencement of the disease, either to the calves of the legs or the soles of the feet; to mitigate the pain arising from internal in- flammations; to drive catarrhal and rheumatic humours fi'om the more essential organs of life to the proximate external parts, and to rouse the indolent powers of nature. In the most acute pains of the head, and the toothache pro- ceeding from a rheumatic cause, as well as in inflammatory affections of the eyes, such plasters may be usefully applied to the neck or the arm ; in inflammations of the chest, to the breast and between the shoulders; in apoplectic fits, to the temples, &c. In paralytic diseases it is of the utmost consequence to place the blister in that direction which corresponds with the situation of the nerves in the part affected ; and, in rheu- matic disorders, such places should be preferred as contain nerves connected with the painful part immediately under the skin. Thus in the most acute lumbago, or sciatica, it would be of little use to blister the hip or thigh, where the nerves are situated deep in the muscles ; but by applying a vesicatory to the sole of the foot on the same side, we may promise almost certain relief. In all inflammatory, and especially in nervous affections, attended with a small, feeble pulse, and where the powers of nature are ra- pidly declining, the use of blisters is very exten- sive. Their operation is, in a great measure, mechanical; as the first action is that of stimu- lating the vessels of the skin, inducing the blood to flow from the part most affected by inflamma- tion to the surface; thus exhausting the prin- ciple of irritability, and collecting the serum, or watery part of the vital fluid, under the cuticle. We shall farther observe, that in acute and dangerous diseases, where it is often necessary to repeat the application of blisters, the new one should never be delayed till the former is com- pletely healed. But, with respect to the time they are to be left on the skin, much depends on the degree of irritability in the patient, as well as the relative strength of the plaster. Some constitutions, of an ii'ritable fibre, exne- rience its effects in less than half an hour, while in others it may remain four, six, or eight hours without raising the skin. In opening a