APR [ 88 ] APP to make it like a syrup ; then put the apples in a preserving-pan, or clear stewpan, or large sauce- pan, and pour the syrup over them. Let there be enough to stew them in. When they are done enough, which you will know by the pip- pins being soft, take them up, and lay them in a little dish with the syrup. When cold, serve them up, or hot if you choose. APPLES A LA TURQUE. Neatly pare and pierce out the cores of 8 or 10 apples ; put them on the fire with a thin syrup of clarified sugar; cover them close, and let them simmer gently; turn them so that both sides may be done. When thoroughly done, lay them on a dish with a wet paper over them. Put a paste round the dish you serve them in, and bake it in a gentle oven to harden it. Then put in a layer of apple puree; beat up the whites of 6 eggs to a froth, and add powdered sugar till they appear quite smooth ; make the apples warm, and lay the whites of eggs over them; smooth neatly over and colour in a gentle oven. APRICOT CAKES. Scald, peel, and take the stones from 1 lb. of ripe apricots; beat them to a pulp; boil ^ lb. of double- refined sugar, with a little water, and skim it well; then put in your fruit, and simmer a quarter of an hour over a slow fire, stirring the apricots gently all the time; put them into shallow glasses, and when cold turn them on glass plates; put them in a stove, and turn them once a day till dry. APRICOT CHARLOTTE. Choose 24 fine, plump, but not too ripe apricots; pare and divide them into 8 parts; toss them up in J lb. of fine sugar, and 2 ozs. of warm butter ; in the meantime, line a mould as directed for Apple Charlotte ; pour in the apricots, and finish as usual. When turned on your dish, cover lightly with apricot marmalade, and serve im- mediately. APRICOT CHIPS. Take apricots, pare them, and cut them very thin into chips; then take three-fourths of their weight in sugar, finely sifted, and put the sugar and fruit into a dish, and place it upon a stove of moderate heat. When the sugar is dissolved, turn the chips upon the edge of the dish out of the syrup, and so set them by. Keep turning them till they have absorbed all the syrap, but take care that they never boil. They must be warmed in the syrup once daily, and so laid out on the edge of the dish until, by repetition, all the syrup be drank up by them. APRICOT COMPOTE. Peel, cut, and take the stones from your fruit, and put them on the fire in a little water, and when they rise they are sufiiclently done, and may be taken out, cooled, and drained. Then put them into a little clarified sugar, and give three or four boilings. Skim them well, and then put your fruit aside. Boil the sugar alone four or five times more, and pour it over the apricots When cold, place them in a compotier APRICOT CREAM. Cut in pieces 15 fine ripe apricots; choose them of a nice red colour. Boil them in 4 ozs. of clarified sumr. When reduced to a thin marmalade, beat them through a sieve; then boil 4 glasses of milk, with 6 ozs. of sugar, and one grain of salt, and mi-x: by degrees with the yolks of 8 eggs, constantly stirring it with a wooden spoon; then cream it over a moderate fire, after which it must be strained through a sieve. Add 6 drachms of isinglass. As soon as it is cool, pour it gently on the apricot marmalade, stirring it gradually until the whole is well mixed together; then pour it into a mould, which should be previously rubbed with the oil of sweet almonds; then surroimd the mould with ice; cover your cream with a piece of paper or the lid of a saucepan. After the cream has been in the mould for two hours, gently turn it out upon a dish, and serve. The advantage arising from rubbing the moulds with the oil of sweet almonds is, preventing the necessity of dipping the moulds into warm water to get the cream out easily, which is rather a long operation. APRICOT CUSTARD. Cut 20 fine apricots in half, take out the stones, toss up 12 apricots in 4 ozs. of powdered sugar, and place them in a cream, according to the directions for Apple Costard; bake and glaze as therein directed. Put 1 glass of water and J lb. of powdered sugar with the rest of the fruit into a preserving-pan. When the syrup is properly reduced, take the skin from the apricots, and arrange them iii the custard; garnish each half apricot with a kernel, and, when ready to serve, pour the syrup upon it. Serve it hot or cold. APRICOT JAM. Weigh equal quantities of pounded loaf sugar and of apricots ; cut and pare them quite small; as they are done, strew over half of the sugar. The following day boil the remainder, and add the apricots; stir it till it boils ; take off the scum, and when perfectly clear, add part of the kernels, blanched, and boil it two or three minutes. APRICOT MARMALADE. Take some fine apricots, and choose from amongst them those that are of the deepest yellow and ripe; they must not be too ripe. Peel them, take out the stones; weigh 12 lbs. of the flesh of the fruit; cut it small, and put it in a preserving- pan with 9 lbs. of powdered sugar. Place your pan over a quick fire, and keep your preparation constantly stirred with a wooden spoon. To find out when the marmalade is sufficiently done, let a few drops fall into a glass of cold