BOI BOL [ 134 ] and thereby raising tlie meat about an inch and a half from the bottom, will prevent the under side from being overdone, and also enable j'ou to take the joint out without disfiguring it. Four skewers or a reversed soup-plate will answer the same purpose. In boiling veal some persons put milk into the water to make it white, but this often does more harm than good, the milk being apt to curdle, and to give the meat a brown or yellow cast, besides hanging about it in disagi-eeable lumps. By just dusting the veal with flour, and putting it into the water when cold, these unusual appearances will be prevented. In winter when meat is frozen it should be thawed by putting it for some time into cold water. A little salt is always to be thrown into the pot after the water has begun to boil, and the scum must be taken off as fast as it rises. The oftener broths and soups are skimmed, the clearer and more agreeable they will prove. If the steam is kept in while the meat is dressing, the water will not be much reduced ; therefore, when it is desirable that the water should evaporate, tmcover the pot, or place the lid partly on one side. BOILING TEMPERATUEE. The tem- perature, or heat, of water when boiling in an open vessel is 212° of Fahrenheit's thermometer, under usual circumstances. At the top of high hills it boils at a lower temperature, and then in the case of eggs, &c., a little longer time is required to produce the desired state. On the other hand, if the lid of the vessel in which the water is exposed to the fire be fastened down so tightly that no steam can escape, the tem- perature of the water may be raised to a great height, and then it is very effective in dissolv- ing gristle, extracting gelatine from bones, &c. Such a vessel is called a digester, and requires to be very strongly made, or it will be liable to burst. In such a vessel water has been heated to 400°, and lead has been melted on the top of the digester merely by the heat given out by the water within it. Sir George Shuckburgh found by experiment that when the barometer was at 26 inches, water boiled at less than 205°; but when it was at 31 inches it required to be heated to nearly 214° before it would boil. Under the common pressure of the atmosphere Degrees Ether boils at ..... 98 Alcohol 176 "Water 213 Nitric acid 248 Sulphuric acid 540 Phosphorus 554 Linseed oil . . „ . . . 6(i0 Mercury . . . „ , . . COO Dr. Black made experiments upon several liquids in vacuo, and found that in general they all boiled with about 140° of heat less than when bearing the weight of the atmosphere. Vitriolic ether, if the pressure of the atmo- sphere be i-emoved, will boil even when 52° below the cold sufficient for freezing water. In boiling oil great care should be taken that there is not a drop of water in the vessel; for as the temperature of the oil increases, the water is converted into steam, swells rapidly, and forces the oil over the sides of the vessel into the fire. _ BOILING VEGETABLES. The proper time for greens and green peas is twenty minutes; for parsnips, broad beans, artichokes, and as- paragus, half an hour; cauliflower, sea-kale, and Jerusalem artichokes, which should be peeled and have a spoonful of flour mixed with the water, twenty minutes ; tm^nips and broccoli, fifteen minutes ; beet-roots, three hours. These rules will generally suffice; but as vegetables grown in different soils vary greatly in quality, it is a good practice with beets, carrots, parsnips, &c., to try the root occasionally with a fork, in order to be sure that it is thoroughly done. The water should always be carefully skimmed during the boiling, and greens particularly should be boiled very quickly in a large quantity of water over a brisk fire, with some salt in the pot, and, if you desire them of a fine colour, put a tea- spoonful of pearl-ash or soda, which will also make them tender. BOILS are pointed swellings, varying much in size, and attended around them by all the symptoms of inflammation. They always end in the formation of pus, which should be pro- moted by poultices and hot fomentations; for if the formation of the matter is arrested in one part it will make its appearance in another. The matter should be let out, when the boil has attained its full size, by the help of a lancet (when fully formed a white head, commonly called the core, will appear in the centre). A small quantity of matter will first follow the incision, succeeded by matter somewhat thicker, which, to hasten the cure, must be squeezed out; or if that fail you must still poultice, as the boil will not heal till all the matter has been removed. A purgative of Epsom salts may be given. BOLETUS TINDER, called also amadou, Oerman tinder, spunk, and touchrnatch. This is a reddish-brown inflammable substance formed into strips, and tipped with some percussion mix- ture for use in lighting cigars. The boletus is a fungus prepared chiefly in Germany, and to render it inflammable it is dipped in a strong brine made of saltpetre, dried, beaten with a wooden mallet; dipped again in the brine, dried, and the saltpetre removed from the sur- face by rubbing.