BRA BE A [ lie ] of such aid, as well as for readers in our o\vii country. Causes. This disease is often occasioned by night-watching, especially when joined with hard study; it may likewise proceed from hard drink- ing, anger, grief, or anxiety. It is often occa- sioned by the stoppage of usual evacuations : as the bleeding piles in men, the customary dis- charges of women, &c. Such as imprudently expose themselves to the heat of the sun, espe- cially by sleeping out of doors in a hot season with their heads uncovered, are often suddenly seized with an inflammation of the brain so as to awake quite delirious. When repellants are imprudently used in an erysipelas an inflamma- tion of the brain is sometimes the consequence. It may likewise be occasioned by external in- juries, as blows or bruises upon the head, &c. Symptoms. The symptoms which usually precede a true inflammation of the brain are, pain of the head, redness of the eyes, a violent flushing of the face, disturbed sleep, or a total want of it, great dryness of the skin, costiveness, a retention of urine, a small dropping of blood from the nose, singing of the ears, and extreme sensibility of the nervous system. When the inflammation is formed the symptoms in gene- ral are similar to those of the inflammatory fever. The pulse, indeed, is often weak, irre- gular, and trembling; but sometimes it is hard and contracted. When the brain itself is in- flamed the pulse is always soft and low; but when the inflammation only afiects the integu- ments of the brain, viz., the dura and pia mater, it is hard. A remarkable quickness of hearing is a common symptom of this disease, but that seldom continues long. Another usual symptom is a great throbbing or pulsation in the arteries of the neck and temples. Though the tongue is often black and dry, yet the patient seldom complains of thirst, and even refuses drink. The mind chiefly runs upon such objects as have before made a deep impression on it; and sometimes, from a sullen silence, the patient becomes all of a sudden quite outrageous. A constant trembling and starting of the tendons is an unfavourable symptom, as are also a sup- pression of urine, a total want of sleep, a con- stant spitting, a grinding of the teeth, which last may be considered as a kind of convulsion. When a phrenitis succeeds an inflammation of the lungs, of the intestines, or of the throat, &c., it is owing' to a translation of the disease from these parts to the brain, and generally proves fatal. This shows the necessity of pro- per evacuations, and the danger of repellants in all inflammatory diseases. The favourable symptoms are, a free perspiration, a copious dis- charge of blood from the nose, the bleeding piles, a plentiful discharge of urine, which lets fall a copious sediment. Sometimes the disease is canied off by a looseness, and in women by an excessive flow of the menses. As this dis- ease often proves fatal in a few days it requires the most speedy applications. When it is pro- longed or improperly treated it sometimes ends in madness or a kind of stupidity which con- tinues for life. In the cure two things are chiefly to be attended to, viz., to lessen the quantity of blood in the brain, and to retard tlie circulation towards the head. Reg'mcn. The patient ought to be kept very quiet. Company, noise, and everything tliat aff"ects the senses or disturbs the imagination increases the disease. Even too much light is hurtful; for which reason the patient's chamber ought to be a little darkened, and he should neither be kept too hot nor cold. It is net, however, necessary to exclude the company of an agreeable frieiid, as this has a tendency to soothe and quiet the mind. Neither ought the patient to be kept too much in the dark, lest it should occasion a gloomy melancholy, which is too often the consequence of this disease. The patient must, as far as possible, be soothed and humoured in everything. Contradiction will ruffle his mind and increase his malady. Even when he calls for things which are not to be obtained, or which might prove hurtful, he is not to be positively denied them, but rather put off with the promise of having them as soon as they can be procured, or by some other excuse. A little of anything that the mind is set upon, though not quite proper, will hurt the patient less than a positive refusal. In a word, what- ever he was fond of or used to be delighted with when in health may here be tried; as pleasing stories, soft music, or whatever has a tendency to soothe the passions and compose the mind. Boerhaave proposes several mechanical experi- ments for tliis purpose; as the soft noise of water distilling by drops into a basin, and the patient trying to reckon them, &c. Any uniform sound, if low and continued, has a tendenc}' to procure sleep, and, consequently, may be of service. The aliment ought to be light, con- sisting chiefly of farinaceous substances; as panado and water-gruel, sharpened with jelly of currants or juice of lemons, ripe fruits roasted or boiled, jellies, preserves, &c. The drink small, diluting, and cooling; as whey, barley- water, or decoctions of barley and tamarinds, which latter not only renders the liquor more palatable, but likewise more beneficial, as they are of an opening nature. Treatment. In an inflammation of the brain nothing more certainly relieves the patient than a free discharge of blood from the nose. When this comes of its own accord it is by no means to be stopped, but rather promoted by applying