table. [ 169 ] brush. Tf the tarnish is very tixed, a little BRO pare her fire for the operation in due time. opinions touching the proper thickness of a steak, BRO spirit of hartshorn may be employed ; but on no account use either soda or potash for the purpose. BROCCOLI: To Boil. Strip off all the side-shoots, leaving only the head and part of the stalk. When well washed put it into a pan of boiling water with some salt. Let it boil briskly till the stalk is tender, then take it up with a slice, to avoid breaking the head. Drain and serve it up. Broccoli boils best in a deep pan, as the heads then lie close to each other. It makes a good supper dish, with a taste like asparagus, but it must always be sent up hot to BROCCOLI: To Pickle. Choose such as are hard and ripe, and take off the leaves and stalks. Set a pan half full of water, with salt in the proportion of J lb. of the one to 1 quart of the other; put in the broccoli, and when it boils take it up and spread the vegetable upon a cloth to dry before the fire twentj-four hours. After this lay piece by piece in jars and cover them with the following pickle:—To 1 quart of vinegar add 1 oz. of black pepper, ^ oz. of powdered ginger, as much salt and horseradish sliced, with a few capsicums or a little Cayenne. Put these ingredients into a jar, stop it close, and let them steep three days by the fire. V/htjn cold pour the liquor over the broccoli. BROCCOLI SALAD. Boil it like asparagus, lay it in a dish, and beat it up with oil, vinegar, and salt. Garnish with nasturtiums. BRODUM'S NERVOUS CORDIAL is a tonic and stomachic mixture composed of equal quantities of tinctures of gentian, columba, car- damoms, and bark, compound spirit of lavender and wine of iron. A small wine-glass is a suf- ficient dose, and should not be often repeated, for it is inebriating. BROILING. The amateur of a broil, who would secure a chop or steak cooked to per- fection, is recommended to wend his way to the neighbourhood of London's Royal Exchange, where the art and mystery of that summary process of savoury cooking has long attained the ultimation of excellence. There the fire burns with never-ceasing brightness, the gridiron has not time to cool, and the impatient com- mercialist, to whom time is property, is never doomed to wait. Certain it is, that a chop or steak is not often eaten in perfection at the table of a private family, though there is no sufficient reason why this should be so ; for, as in boiling, the difficulties of the art vanish wliere attention is not wanting. The process is more simple than that of any other method of dress- ing meat; the operation is quick, and the ob- ject under the hand and eye of the cook, from the moment of its being put upon the gridiron to that of its completion. The cook must pre- When ready it should be clear and bright, so free from black coal or smoke that the chop or steak may comefi'om the gridiron without blem- ish, or taint of sulphur or smoke. The best fuel for a broil is composed of charcoal and coke, as little smoke is emitted from either even on commencing the fire, and when well ignited it is entirely free from it. Coke added to a brisk coal fire also burns brightly, and is well suited for the operation ; though with care a proper fire may be made of good sea-coal. Certain unqualified declairaers upon broil hold various though, at the most celebrated chop-houses, the cooks, unless expressly desired otherwise, con- fine the cut to somewhat more than half, yet less than the thickness of three quarters of an inch. This adjustment of the proportion of the stratum of the delicious rump is, moreover, according to the statute law of the thrice-learned conclave — the Beefsteak Club, amongst whose members, from the epoch of its original founder, George Lambert and his distinguished convives, to the present day, may be numbered the most ac- complished gormands of this renowned land of cheer. There is this, amongst other disadvan- tages, in cutting too thick a steak the outside is likely to be scorched to horny hardness before the interior is half cooked. Hence, to say nothing of the miser}' of those who have not the ad- vantage of capacious mouths, the disappointed epicure must either wait until it is put again upon the gridiron, or, instead of eating it rare, be constrained to eat it raw. No gridiron should be used but those with fluted bars, which, form- ing channels, the greater part of the fat, which otherwise falls into the fire and scorches the steak, is drawn off in a gutter to the bottom. The gridiron should be thoroughly heated and the bars rubbed with beef or mutton suet pre- viously to putting on tlie steak, to prevent its being marked by or adhering to the bars. A vigilant eye should be kept upon the steak to watch the moment for turning it, which is repeatedly done during the process. Broiling- tongs of convenient size should be used, with which, by a little practice, the steak may be turned with ease and despatch* The cook must have her dish thoroughly heated to receive the broil when done, and the cover hot to place upon it instantly. Even when she has accomplished her task, if the servant who is to take it to table loiters on the way, the steak will have lost its zest. A steak or chop, then, should be briskly cooked, speedily conveyed to the table, and served with despatch. It may be either a delectable treat to the accom[)lished amateur of good eating, or a dish scarcely endurable to tha voracious appetite of a famished hunter.