CHE [ 268 ] CHE ful of salt for every 6 gallons of milk, or about ^ oz. to about lib. of curd. If the cheese be made of two meals of milk, unless iu very hot weather, a portion of the creamed milk of the first meal should be made scalding hot, and poured back into the cold; then, when well mixed, it should be poured into a cheese tub, and the second meal of milk added warm from the cow. If, however, the milk be too hot, the cheese will be tough, as the tender- ness of the curd depends upon the coolness of the milk. In making very rich cheese the whey should be allowed to run off slowly, for if forced it might carry off much of the fat of the cheese. This happens more or less in eveiy mode of making cheese. To collect this superabundant fat the whey is set in shallow milk-pans, and an inferior kind of butter, called uheij butter, is made from the cream or fat skimmed off. If the cheese be coloured the substance used for colouring should be mixed with the milk at the time the rennet is put in. If herbs, as chopped sage, be added they are mixed at the same time. CHEESE: To Preserve. Cheese may be preserved for several years in a perfect state by the following process :—Select the cheeses free from cracks or bruises of any kind in the rind, and, after brushing them clean to remove the white mould that comes with them from the dairy, rub them over with a coating of melted fat inclosed in bladders, or pieces of parchment made pliable by soaking in water. Over this lay a coating of powdered quicklime, which will adhere to the wet covering, and after becoming dry prevent the intrusion of insects. This is an excellent plan to prepare cheeses for exportation to warm climates or for a sea voyage. CHEESE: To Select. To select good cheese is a department of marketing that re- quires great judgment. A nice palate and a sensitive nose are the two chief requisites ; but the eye is a necessary organ, not only for de- tecting what escapes the inquiry of the senses, as mites, decay, &c., but with good judges it will usually tell a prime cheese from an in- different one by the texture and colour alone. In choosing this necessary article attentiofi must be paid to the appearance of the rind. Cheshire cheese from a good dairy is in its prime at two years,- provided it has been well kept. A damp storehouse produces decay, and fills it with mites. Cheese, even of the finest quality, is apt to deceive those unacquainted with the article, both in taste and smell, when judging by the taster, or when first cut, as it will frequently possess a strong and unpleasant flavour, although, in a few days after being cut, exposure to the air will render it pure and agreeable to the smell and taste. It is hence the custom with expe- rienced caterers to lay iu a stock of Cheshire cheese, and to keep it in a dry cellar, in saw- dust, in a box, by which in two or three months it improves and is fit to cut. It is then well to divide it into half, or take a fourth, according to its size. Spread butter on the part to be reserved, and keep it iu a dry place; that for use should be exposed in the larder on the cheese shelf three or four days, then it will be ready for table. A certain worthy alder- man and vintner, famed for his knowledge of the larder, for many years was accustomed to put Cheshire cheeses in a sack, cover them with a basket, and bury them under his summer stock of coals, and in the winter, as they re- duced, he used to say, " Now is the time for ray old Cheshire." No cheese of equal flavour, per- haps, was eaten iu the city of Loudon. We speak of Cheshire, par excellence, as the most piquant and fine flavoured of English cheese, although the modern gormands are pleased to designate the Stilton cheese the British Parmesan. Good Stilton, howevei', is a treat for the most refined palate, and is generally preferred at the tables of the great, even by those whose au- thority few will be hardy enoagh to dispute. Stilton cheese made in May or June is usually served at table at Christmas. If made at a capital dairy, however, it is in better order at ten or even twelve months, or, if well managed, even at a later period. it is customary with certain tavern-keepers to produce an artificial ripeness of Stilton to please those pseudo-connoisseurs, their vain cus- tomers, who boast loudly of their superior taste in these matters when in the chair, and who verify the couplet of the inimitable poet:— " Doubtless the pleasure is as great In being cheated as to cheat." Mine host manages the matter thus:—A Stil ton with a rugged and picturesque coat is tapped, and in the aperture is inserted a small piece of mite-touched old Cheshire. In three weeks or a month it is ripe enough, and relished by the convives with its concomitant—a glass of port— as a honne-houche fit for the gods ! Certain epicures are accustomed to make a conical excavation on the top of a Stilton, and to pour therein from two to four glasses, or even more, of port, claret, or Madeira wine, which, being absorbed for thi-ee weeks or a month, they maintain, improves its flavour. There is no dis- puting with a variety of tastes. On some occa- sions an accidental flavour may be thus attained which may be palatable; but, on the authority of one of the best judges of these matters, we venture to say that many a prime Stilton has