BllO [ no ] BRONZING. Bronzing metals is effected as follows :—The terra is sometimes used to signify the production of a metallic appearance of anj' kind upon such objects. The objects are first covered with a coat of size or oil varnish, and when nearly diy, bronze powder, the powder of Dutch foil, gold leaf, mosaic gold, or precipi- tated copper, is applied with a dry brush or dusting-bag. A white metallic appearance is given to plaster figures by rubbing them over with an amalgam of equal parts of mercury, tin, and bisnmth, and then applying a coat of var- nish. The iron-coloured bronzing is effected by applying finely-pulverised black-lead or plum- bago. A bronze appearance is given to iron objects by plunging them into a solution of sul- phate of copper, and allowing them to remain there until covered with a thin coating of copper. Copper coins, medals, &c., may be bronzed in the following manner:—Dissolve 2 parts of ver- digris and 1 part of sal ammoniac in vinegar; boil the solution, strain it, and dilute with water until it has only a weak metallic taste, and on further dilution it lets fall no white precipitate. The solution is to be boiled, and then poured upon the objects to be bronzed, previously well cleaned and placed in a copper vessel. This vessel is to be put on the fire, and the solution kept boiling until the objects have acquired the proper colour. The Chinese are said to bronze their copper vessels by applying a mixture of 2 parts of verdigris, 3 of cinnabar, 5 of sal am- moniac, and 5 of alum, made into a paste with vinegar. This is repeatedly applied with heat until the wished-for colour is produced. Bronzinr) of gun-barrels, dc, is effected by applying certain solutions which produce a thin film of oxide over the surface. This effect may be produced by inclosing the barrels in a space filled with the va})our of muriatic acid, or by moistening their surface with diluted muriatic or nitric acid. Chloride of antimony, or butter of antimony, is frequently used, and answers better than the foregoing; it is mixed with an equal quantity of olive oil, and rubbed over the iron previously heated; it is then exposed to the air until the desired bronzing is effected, when it is carefully cleaned, and polished with wax, or covered with a varnish of shellac. The following solution is used for the same purpose : —Sulphate of copper (blue copperas), 1 oz.; sulphuric ether, 2 ozs_.; water, 4 ozs. Mix, and apply to the metal previously scoured bright.— [Grny). See Alabaster. ' BROOM BUDS : To Pickle. Gather the buds before thej'^ grow yellow on the top; mix palt and \vater until completely melted ; then put in the buds ; stir them every day till they 'sink to the bottom and keep them closely covered. BROOMS. For out-of-door work none are so good as the ling, or heather broom; hnt whether made of that or of birch twigs, they should always have a piece of stout string or wire fastened round them at about six inches from the end to keep the sprays moderately close together, and they should be soaked in water before using to render them pliant. The best brush for our carpeted floors is a long-handled one, with rounded ends, the hairs very stiff, and about as long as those in a clothes brush. This, at all events, will suffice for the purpose six days out of the seven ; so that only once a week, in- stead of every day, the use of the genuine carpet broom may be permitted. Two house brooms should always be provided, one for the sleep- ing apartments, which should be kept upstairs, and one for the kitchen; and these, indeed all brooms, should have round ends. We deprecate those which are usually seen with ends sharp and square, that seem to have been invented expressly to chip the paint from the skirting- boards. Whalebone is too frequently manu- factured into brooms, which are sold as hair. It is not easy for an inexperienced eye to de- tect the fraud. The chief differences between hair and whalebone are, that the former is elastic, while the latter, if bent, retains the bend; that hair is round and whole to the end ; whalebone, on the contrary, looks merely shred, and the points are split. A hearth broom, for a common sitting-room, should always be composed of black hair; for the obvious reason that, being fre- quently used, it so often would require to be washed if the hair were white. A hearth brush should always be provided for the kitchen; a servant then will have neither excuse nor pre- tence to make use of the long-handled broom to sweep the bars of the grate—a practice too fre- quently adopted, to the speedy destruction of the utensil. For lofty staircases a TurJcs head is used, in order to detach cobwebs from corners that are too high to be reached by means of the usual house bi'oom. This gigantic round-headed brush is at least twelve feet long in the handle, and is not a requisite in the generality of houses. Those with telescope handles are best, being more easily put away. When a back kitchen or scullery is paved with bricks, a birch or heath broom will be found quite as efficient and far less expensive than one made of hair. See Carpkts. BROSE. Brose is an article of diet which is made from oatmeal. The process consists in pouring boiling water upon oatmeal till of the consistence of hasty pudding, stirring them together, and flavouring with salt. The meal is, consequently, very imperfectly cooked ; and, however well it may agree with the stomach of a hardy north-countryman, we apprehend it will seldom be equally-suitable tp those of a mor«