[ 35 ] APP APP he sufBcient for eacli pound of apples; but if for keeping, double that quantity ■will be neces- sary. Add to it a stick of cinnamon and the juice of a lemon; put the stewpan over a brisk fire and cover it; when the apples are pulped stir the mixture till of the proper consistence; then put the marmalade into pots, but do not cover them until cold. APPLE PIE (1). Take 8 apples; pare, core, and cut not smaller than quarters; place them as close together in a pie-dish as possible with 4 cloves; rub in a mortar some lemon-peel with 4 ozs. of good moist sugar, and, if agree- able, add some quince-jam; cover it with puff- paste; bake it an hour and a quarter. Gene- rally eaten warm. APPLE PIE (2). Pare, quarter, and core the apples; cut them into thin bits; put into the bottom of a pie-dish 1 table-spoonful of brown sugar, with 1 tea-spoonful of grated ginger and lemon-peel, then a layer of apples, and so on alternately till the dish is piled as full as it will hold. The next day wet the rim of the dish, line it with puff or tart-paste, brush it with water, and cover it with paste; press the edge all round, notch it with a paste cutter, and make a small hole with the point of a knife in the middle. It may be seasoned with 2 table- spoonsful of lemon or orange marmalade, pounded cinnamon, mace and cloves, in addition to the ginger and lemon-peel. APPLE PIE (wtTir Mitscadel Raisins). Peel the apples, cut them in quarters, and then cut each quarter into five or six pieces ; toss them in a pan with 4 ozs. of sugar in powder (over which should be grated the peel of a lemon), 4 ozs. of butter, lukewarm, and 4 ozs. of fine muscadel plums. Line the edge of a deep dish with a good puff paste ; then put in your fruit, and cover your dish with a good puff-paste J inch in thickness; glaze with the white of an egg, and strew powdered loaf sugar over it. Let it bake an hour in a moderate oven, and serve hot. APPLE PUDDING (Baked) (1). Peel and core 6 very large apples; stew them in 6 table-spoonsful of water, with the rind of 1 lemon; when soft, beat them to a pulp; add 0 ozs. of melted fresh butter, the same of good brown sugar, 6 well-beaten eggs, ^ wine-glass of bi'andy, and 1 tea-spoonful of lemon-juice; line a dish with a puff-paste, and when baked, stick all over the top thin chips of candied citron and lemon-peel. APPLE PUDDING (Baked) (2). Pare and quarter 4 large apples ; boil them tender, with the rind of 1 lemon, in so little water that when done none of it may remain; beat them quite fine in a mortar; add the crumbs of a small roll, 4 ozs. of butter, melted, the yolks of 5 and the whites of 3 eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste ; beat altogether and lay in a dish with paste to turn out. APPLE PUDDING (BoiledI (1). Chop 4 ozs. of beef suet, very fine, or 2 ozs. of butter, lard, or dripping—but the suet makes the best and lightest crust—put it on the paste-board, with 8 ozs. of flour and 1 salt-spoonful of salt; mix it well together with your hands, and then put it all of a heap, and make a hole in the middle; break one egg in it, stir it well together with your finger, and by degrees infuse as much water as will make it of a stiff paste; roll it out two or three times with the rolling-pin, and roll it large enough to receive 13 ozs. of apples. It will look neater if boiled in a basin, well buttered, than boiled in a pudding cloth, well floured; boil it an hour and three quarters; but the surest way is to stew the apples first in a stew- pan with a wine-glassful of water, and then one hour will boil it. Some people like it flavoured with cloves and lemon-peel, and sweeten it with 2 ozs. of sugar. APPLE PUDDING (Boiled) (2). Weigh ]f lb. of apples ; pare, core, and cut them into thin bits; weigh also 10 ozs. of brown sugar; make a suet paste, rolled thinner towards the edges than the middle, and sufiicieutly large to lay into a two-quart basin, previously buttered ; put in the apple and sugar alternately; wet the edges of the paste, and fold it closely over; dredge it with flour and tie a pudding-cloth over the top of a basin; boil it for three hours. A light paste may be made of flour half its quan- tity in bulk of grated bread and suet, mixing it with milk or water, and, instead of apples, currants, damsons, or any other fruit, may be enclosed in it. APPLE PUDDING, BOSTON. Peel and core 18 good apples ; cut them small, and put them into the stewpan with a little water, cinnamon, 2 cloves, and a little lemon-peel. Stew over a slow fire till the apples are quite soft; then sweeten with brown sugar and pass it through a sieve. Add the yolks of 4 eggs and the white of 1 egg, ^ lb. of butter, half a nutmeg, the grated peel of 1 lemon and also the juice ; beat the whole well together, line the inside of a dish with paste, put in the pudding, and bake lialf an hour. APPLE PUPTON. Pare some good baking apples, take out the cores, and put them into a skillet; to 1 i lb. of apples put i lb. of sugar and a wine-glass of water. Do them over a slow fire; add a little cinnamon, and keep them stir- ring. When of the consistence of a marmalade, let it stand till cool; beat up the yolks of 4 eggs, and stir in 4 table-spoonsful of grated bread, and i lb. of fresh butter; then form it into shape, bake it in a slow ovon, turn it upside down on a plate, and serve it as an entremet.