AMB ALU [ 16 ] even ctange of scene, and total change of diet, act as alteratives. A man is not ill, yet he is not well; he has deranged his functions by excess of some kind ; it matters not whether the excess be in study, food, or tobacco, the symptoms are the same. His sleep is disturbed; he wakes with a dry tongue, and perceives that the secretion from his kidneys is less and higher coloured than usual, and his skin is bloated, or dry and harsh. Small doses of some mercurial, or of ipecacu- anha, will permanently relieve him from these symptoms, as a little salt taken in the mouth will remove it at the time; but the return of the consequences of excess can only be avoided by not indulging in that excess. ALUM is a crystallised combination of alumina (pure clay), potash, sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol), and water. It is extensively used in dyeing to fix a variety of vegetable colours which otherwise would speedily fade. Without it the Tyrian purple could not be obtained. It gives firmness to tallow in the manufacture of candles. It is employed in preparing cod and other fish for drying, as it prevents the common salt from becoming damp by absorbing moisture from the air. In tanning it gives firmness to the skins after they have become soft in the lime pits ; it is also used in other preparations of leather. It is used in preparing paper for the preservation of gunpowder, for it does not absorb moisture, yet it makes the paper difficult to take fire. It is also of great value to the calico printer. Wood soaked in alum water will not burn readily. Printers' cushions and calico manufacturers' blocks are rubbed with it to remove all greasiness. Alumed paper is also used in whitening silver and silvering brass without heat. Mixed with cream it promotes the forming of butter by churning. Added in small quantities to foul water, it renders it clear and tasteless in a very few minutes. Ten grains of alum and 30 grains of powdered charcoal, put in a linen bag and stirred about m a gallon of putiid water, will render it sweet and palatable. Crayons are usually made of the alumina ob- tained in fine powder from alum and afterwards united with the required colouring. It checks or prevents acetous fermentation, and for this purpose is mixed with their paste by bookbinders and others to prevent it becoming sour. It is also used for clearing thick wines and spirituous liquors. Bakers also use it in making bread. We have the following evidence from a baker examined before a Committee of the House of Commons: " Where alum is used half the quantity of salt will do. It makes the bread whiter and clearer to the eye. It is mostly used with inferior flour. To 10 bushels of flour 8 lbs. of salt should be added; if alum and salt are used, lib. of alum will go as far as iZlbs. of salt." Alum in Medicine is found to be powerfully astringent, and has been employed to stop internal bleeding and violent fluxes. The dose is from 5 to 20 grains. Boerhaave's astringent powder for the ague consisted of alum, and nut- meg, and Armenian bole, in 10-grain doses. In large doses it often excites nausea and acts upon the bowels. Nutmeg, or some other aro- matic, therefore, should be joined with it. Alum pills: powdered alum 5 grains, powdered nut- meg, 5 grains, extract of gentian enough to make them into a mass. Divide it into two pills. Alum gargle: infusion of roses, ozs. fluid, powdered alum 10 grains, syrup 3 ozs. fluid. Mi.'c and use as a gargle for relaxed throat. Ahan whey: boil ^ oz. of alum with 1 pint of milk, strain, and give a wine-glassful. Given in internal bleedings, plumbers' colic, and violent diarrhoea. Burnt alum is only alum with the water driven out of its crystals by heat. In this state it is used as a mild caustic to remove proud flesh from wounds. Roach alum has a pinkish tinge, usually given artificially to common English alum, which is quite as good. True Roach or Roman alum is imported from Eoccha, in Syria, and Tolfa, in Italy. AMBER is a hard, resinous substance, pos- sessing a subacid, resinous taste, and a fragrant, aromatic smell. It is the production of many countries, but chiefly from the shores of the Baltic Sea, between Konigsberg and Memel. It has also been found in various parts of England, especially in the clay and gravel-pits between Tyburn and Kensington, as well as behind St. George's Hospital, near Hyde Park Corner, where fine specimens of this concrete are occasionally discovered. Prussia possesses it in great abundance, and the king derives from this article a large annual revenue. Its most remarkable properties are that it at- tracts other bodies to its surface, such as paper, hair, wool, &c., and that it presents a luminous appearance in the dark. In its native form underground it resembles various substances, such as pears, almonds, peas, &c.; but, when broken, leaves, insects, and other small objects, frequently appear inclosed. Hence it has been supposed that amber was originally in a fluid state, or that from its exposui'e to the sun it became softened, so as to be susceptible of those impressions. As these insects are never found in its centre, but always near its surface, the latter seems the more probable conjecture. Animals of all kinds are extremely fond of it, and pieces are frequently discovered in their excrements. Several centuries before the Chris- tian era it was in high esteem as a medicine; and Plato, Aristotle, and other writers, hava