[ 42 ] AEO ARO Indians of South America use the Erythroxy- luvi Peruvianum (called cocoa) along mth the leaves of the Chenopodium Quinoa, mixed with quicklime, to stimulate the impaired powers of the stomach during their long and toilsome journeys over the heights of the Andes. On the same principle, the Europeans who visit tropical countries use curry and other hot dishes. But in every quarter of the globe we find condi- ments used along with all articles difficult of digestion, especially yegetables, fish, and young meats, such as veal. Aromatics are, therefore, employed both to prevent and cure diseased states of the stomach, and to assist the action of other remedies. In simple loss of appe- tite, without any other obvious disease, or in slow digestion, they may be employed in the form of the warmer pickles during dinner, or preserved ginger after dinner. In many cases of fever in warm climates, the stomach is so powerless that it cannot ex- tract from cinchona bark, or other febrifuge medicines, the principles fitted to cure the disease, unless aided by aromatics. Hence Cayenne pepper is added to them ; and, in- deed, Cayenne pepper will often cure the fever without any bark. Lately piperin (the active principle of pepper) has been recommended as a means of curing fevers in Europe; and certain it is, that some lingering fevers, of the intermittent character, occurring in old or feeble persons, cannot be cured without the assistance of aromatics. It may be stated, however, that piperin, when pure, has no aromatic property. The preparation of iron (carbonate), which is found to be so useful in curing tic-douloureux, can rarely be borne by the stomach for such a length of time, or in such large doses as are necessary, without adding aromatics to it. They are also very beneficially added to aloetic purga- tives, for the treatment of indigestion and con- stipation occurring in literary and sedentary persons. Aromatics are frequently used to disguise the unpleasant taste of many medi- cines. The disagreeable taste of aloes is con- cealed by adding the aromatic or compound spirit of lavender, and the intensely bitter taste of the sulphate of quinia is nearly covered by mixing one part of it with ten or fifteen parts of powdered valerian, fennel, aniseed, or orange-peel. Aromatics are most-suited to persons of a phlegmatic constitution, or those advanced in life: less so to the young, or those of very irritable constitutions. They are to be alto- gether prohibited in certain states of the stomach, or system generally. "When there exists any inflammatory condition of the stomach, they would be very improper. And it is necessary to observe that, in all degrees and stages of inflammation of the stomach, debility more or less is felt by the patient, which might seem to indicate then- use ; but, under such circumstances, they are extremely hurtful. The same observations apply to the aromatic teas, such as balm and sage, in com- mon use among the people. In certain affections of the brain, such as when there is a tendency to apoplexy, they are improper. Cullen mentions the case of a gen- tleman, who, having taken by mistake 2 di'achms of powdered nutmeg, in about an hour became drowsy, and fell from his chair. Being laid in bed, he dropped asleep, but awoke from time to time, and was quite delirious. He thus con- tinued alternately sleeping and delirious for several hours. Even the following day he still complained of headache and drowsiness. In the East such cases are of frequent occurrence. Persons predisposed to affections of the brain should abstain from such articles, especially mulled wine at bed-time.—[Humboldt, " Penny Cyclopaedia.") AROMATIC LOZENGES OF STEEL. Sulphate of iron, 3 drachms; sugar, 16ozs.; tincture of cantharides, 1 oz. ; essence of orange, 30 drops; mucilage of gum tragacanth, enough to make into a paste; roll out thin, and cut into 280 lozenges. AROMATIC MIXTURE. Cinnamon water, 5 ozs. fluid ; compound tincture of cinnamon and syrup of ginger, of each ^ oz. fluid. Mix them, and take 2 table-spoonsful occasionally. Removes flatulence, and promotes digestion in some stomachs. AROMATIC POWDERS (1). Compound powder of cinnamon, 1 scruple; carbonate of ammonia, 4 grains. Make a powder to be taken two hours before and after dinner in cinnamon or peppermint water. AROMATIC POWDERS (2). Ginger pow- dered and carbonate of ammonia, of each 5 grains ; cinnamon powdered, 1 scruple. Mix, and take as above. AROMATIC VINEGAR is a stimulating, fragrant solution of various essential oils and camphor in vinegar (acetic acid). This is some- times called thieves' vinegar, a name said to have been applied to it because, when four thieves were condemned to execution for plundering the bodies of those who died of the plague at Marseilles, they compounded for their lives, by revealing that they preserved themselves from contagion by using this vinegar. In France it is known as vinaigre des quatre voleurs. An aromatic vinegar may be made very promptly, by putting into a glass-stoppered bottle 1 drachm of acetate of potash, 2 drops each of oils of rosemary and lavender, or any other essential oil, and 20 drops of sulphurio