FEV C 490 ] FEN either ice it or not, according as you may think proper. FENUGREEK {Trigonella fcenumgracum). The seeds have a very peculiar smell, and are used to give flavour to Sapsaga cheese. In Hindostan they are roasted and used as coffee. Ground into flour they are used in poultices. FERMENTATION. See Beeb, Bread, Vinegar, and Wine. FEVERS. This class of diseases is usually divided into intermittents or agues, remittents, and continued fevers, from their taking up dif- ferent times in the order of their natural dura- tion ; some having a number of paroxysms, which follow each other in regular succession at some distance of time, as in agues; in others fresh paroxysms immediately succeed the crisis or turn of the former, so as scarcely to leave the patient entirely free from fever, as is the case in remittents; and in others, again, there is such a quick succession of paroxysms that one comes on before there is any visible abatement of the febrile symptoms, as in continued fevers. There are several species of fever compre- hended under the head of typhus; there is, however, no specific difference in them, as they seem to arise either from a different degree of power in the cause, varying circumstances in the climate or season of the year, peculiar con- stitutional affection, or from some particular state of the fluids, which gives a predisposing tendency to putrescency. Intermittent fever we have treated of under the title Ague, and shall here confine ourselves to the two other kinds. Fever, Remittent or Remitting. This lund of fever is, like the preceding, brought on by putrid exhalations from marshes and stagnant water, impregnated with the decomposed remains of animal and vegetable substances, and is most prevalent when fehere is a sudden transition of temperature, or when calm, close, and sultry weather follows upon heavy rains and inunda- tions. It is also met with in low marshy situa- tions which abound with wood and water, and it mostly attacks those of a relaxed habit, who undergo great fatigue, breathe impure air, and those living upon poor and unwholesome diet. In its simple state it is not infectious, but under bad management, such as crowding too many sick people together, neglecting proper cleanli- ness, and not admitting a free current of fresh air, there is little doub% that it engenders matter capable of producing a contagious fever. Before a patient is attacked with the fever he is commonly heavy and languid ; much anxiety, listlessness, sighing, and yawning prevail, fol- lowed up with alternate heat and cold. When the attack has commenced he experiences severe pain in the head and back; a great increase of heat is diffused over the whole body, considerable thirst and difficulty of breathing are present, with great depression of spirits. The tongue is white—the eyes and skin assume a yellowish tinge—there is pain and swelling about the region of the stomach; nausea and vomiting of bilious matter ensue, and the pulse is small and frequent. When these symptoms have con- tinued for a time the fever abates, or goes off imperfectly by a gentle moisture diffusing itself partially over the skin; but in a few hours it returns with more or less of the preceding symptoms. In this manner it goes on until it changes to a fever of a different type. This is the mildest form of the fever. Sometimes a deluium arises, the symptoms increase with redoubled violence, and carry off the patient. The remitting fever is always attended with some hazard, particularly in warm climates, where it usually runs its course in five or six days ; but in cold ones its crisis is generally not effected until the twelfth or fourteenth day. Each succeeding paroxysm is attended with more danger than that which preceded it, and the shorter and more obscure these paroxysms the greater the danger ; but the milder the attack, and the nearer the fever approaches to the intermittent kind, the fairer the prospect of recovery. From the determination of blood to the different organs, difficulty of breathing, &c., bleeding would appear to be indicated in this disease, and it may be proper in patients of a full and plethoric habit of body at an early stage of the fever. The use of cupping-glasses to the back of the head in protracted cases, where the head is much affected, leeches to the temples, and blisters, are to be preferred to bleeding in the arm. The patient's apartment during the course of this fever cannot be kept too quiet; all irri- tating circumstances, such as too strong a light falling on the patient's face, noise and motion, excess of heat, &c., should be sedulously avoided; a free admission of cool air, the chamber kept at a moderate temperature, light covering to the bed, &c. These may be assisted with some cooling acidulated liquor, such as lemonade, tamarind beverage, or the imperial drink, made in the following manner:—Take cream of tartar, J oz.; white sugar, 4 ozs.; fresh orange-peel, ^ oz.; barley water, 3 pints. To be taken for a common drink. The patient's body linen, as well as that of the bed, must be frequently changed, and the chamber sprinkled throughout the day with vinegar. Whatever is voided by the patient should be instantly removed. His head should be kept rather raised, and where the determina- tion to the head is strong it should be shaved,