CAR [ 246 ] CAR CARVING : Mutton, Shoulder of. This joint is full of gravy wheu properly roasted, and has many nice cuts. It is first cut in the hollow part from a to b, and the knife should pass down to the bone. The best fat is on the outside edge, and should he cut in the direction e in thin slices. When many persons are at table, and the hollow part a Z> is cut out, some nice slices may be ob- tained on each side of the bladehone from c to d. The space between two dotted lines is the region of the bladebone, and cannot be cut across. Pig, Roasted. The cook commonly divides the body before it is sent to table, and garnishes the dish with the jaws and ears. First separate a shoulder from the carcase on one side, and then the leg, in the direction a b e. Then part the ribs into about two helpings, presenting them with an ear or a jaw, and plenty of sauce. The joints may be divided into two each, or pieces may be cut from them. The ribs are esteemed the best, but some persons prefer the neck end, between the shoulders. Pork, Leg of. The leg, when sent to table, should be placed with the back uppermost, and the crackling be removed. If sufficiently baked this may be done with ease. The meat should be served in thin slices, cut across the leg, the crackling being served with it, or not, according to taste. The boues are cut into pieces as they are scored by the butcher. CARVING: Poultry. See Poultry. Tongue. This must be cut ci'ossways, and in the line a b, taking a slice from thence j the most tender and juicy slices are about the centre, or between the line a b and the root. For the fat, and kernel with it, cut off a slice of the root on tlie right of the point at the bottom. See Fish, Poultry, and Game. Veal, Breast of. That part which is called the brisket is the thickest, but it is gristly. Insert your knife about four inches from the edge of this, at a, and cut through it to b, to separate the ribs therefrom. Then ask which part is chosen. The sweetbread will be found at c. Veal, Fillet of. This part corresponds with the round of beef. In helping the guests it is usual to ask whether the brown is preferred. The slices should be cut thin and even. Cut deep into the stuffing, and add thereto, in help- ing, some of the fat. Veal, Knuckle of, is always boiled, and esteemed for its fat and tendons about the knuckle. A handsome slice can be carved only across the fleshy part. About this part is some delicate fat, and cutting in the direction two bones will be divided. Between these fine, marrowy fat is to be found. Veal, Loin of. This joint is sent to table served as a sirloin of beef. Having turned it over, cut out the kidney and the fat. Return it to its proper position, and carve it as in the breast of veal from b to d. Help with it a slice of kidney and fat. The kidney is usually placed upoq a dry toast when removed from the joint. Veal, Shoulder of, is sent to table with the under part placed uppermost. Help it as a shoulder of mutton, beginning at the knuckle end.