[ 98 ] BEE BEE BEEP, RUMP OF: To Boil (the Fbench watV Parboil your rump of beef for half an hour, take it up, and put it into a deep dish ; cut gashes in the side of your meat that the gravy may come out; put salt and pepper into every gash; then fill up the dish with claret, and put in two or three blades of mace ; set it over a chafing-dish of coals, cover it close, and let it stew for an hour and a half, turning the meat several times whilst i,t is stewing; then take off the fat, put in a handful of capers, 5 or 6 sliced onions, and 6 unripe grapes. Boil all together till the meat is tender, and serve it at table with brown bread and sippets fried in butter. BEEF, RUMP OF (en Matelote). Cut a rump into pieces and parboil them. Take some common stock, boil it whole without seasoning, and, when half done, stir in some butter, with a spoonful of flour, till brown, and moisten it with the liquor the beef was done in. Put in with the rump 12 large onions, parboiled, a glass of white wine, a bunch of parsley, a leaf of laurel, some sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. Stew the rump and onions till tender; skim the surface well, and put an anchovy, cut small, with some chopped capers, into the sauce. Lay the rump in the middle of the dish with the onions round it. A rump cooked in this way will take four hours. BEEF, RUMP OF: To Stew (1). Roast it till half done, and put it into a stewpan with 3 pints of water, 1 pint of small beer, the same of port wine, some salt, 3 or 4 table-spoonsful of vinegar, 2 of catsup, a bunch of sweet herbs, some onions, cloves, and Cayenne pepper. Cover the pan close, and let it simmer two or three hours. When done, lay the beef in a dish set over hot water, and well covered. Skim the gravy; put therein some pickled mushrooms, truffles, and morels; thicken with flour and butter; beat all together, and pour the mixture over the beef. Serve with forcemeat balls. BEEF, RUMP OF : To Stew (2). Bind the beef tightly, stick in 4 cloves, and put it in a saucepan with 3 quarts of water, ^ oz. of black pepper, some salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 3 anchovies; turn it often, and when half done, take it out and pour off the liquor; put in the beef again, with 1 pint of port wine and ^ pint of table-beer made scalding hot, and some of the liquor strained; stew it till tender, clear off the fat, and if the sauce is not strong enough, add well-seasoned beef gravy; thicken it with flour rubbed down in a little cold water. Dish the beef, and pour the gravv round it. BEEF, RUMP OF: To Stew (3). Tie up the beef, and put it on to stew with nearly as much cold water as will cover it. Add 3 lbs. of fat bacon, cut into slices, a handful of thyme, 8 onions, 4 small carrots, 2 turnips, 2 or 3 bay leaves, some black pepper, a little allspice, mace, and 3 cloves, 1 pint of port wine and 1 pint of sherry. Let it stew gently between seven and eiglit hours. Take out the beef, strain out the liquor, and skim off the fat; thicken it with a little flour rubbed down in cold water; boil it up, and poui' it over the beef. Have ready carrots and turnips, cut according to fancy and boiled tender in weak gravy, and put them round the beef before serving. BEEF, SALTED. Beef should be well sprinkled, and a few hours afterwards hung up to dry, before it is rubbed with salt; which method, by cleansing the meat from the blood, sei-ves to keep it from tasting sti'ong. It should be turned every day; and, if wanted soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting-tub or lead may be used, with a cover to fit close. Those who use a great deal of salt meat will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, skim it, and, when cold, pour it over the meat that has been sprinkled and drained. BEEF, SALTED (the Ddtch way). Take a lean piece of beef, and rub it well with brown sugar (some pour treacle over it); let it lie at least two days, turning it veiy often ; then wipe it, and salt it with common salt and saltpetre; beat the saltpetre fine, rub it in well, and turn it every day for fifteen or sixteen dajs; then roll it very tight in a coarse cloth, and press it down with a large weight; hang it to dry in a chimney, but turn the bottom upwards every day; then boil it in pump water. It will cut into shivers like Dutch beef. BEEF, SALTED (Red). This is extremely good to eat fresh from the pickle or to hang up to dry. Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is not proper), sprinkle it, and let it drain a day; then rub it -with com- mon salt, saltpetre, and bay salt, but only a small portion of the saltpetre; and you may add a few grains of cochineal—all in fine powder; rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, and then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen days drain it from the pickle, and let it be smoked at the oven's mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker's. A few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled tender, with greens and caiTots. If it is to be grated, as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it extremely tender, and, while hot, put it under a press. When cold, fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months, ready for using on bread and butter.