C 1 DIN 8?iape, and have ready some melted butter, into which put for a moment each cutlet; again sprinkle them with bread crumbs and egg, and fry tbem until a light brown. When done drain them on a sieve before the fire for a minute. Place some stewed cucumbers or spinach in a heap in the middle of your dish, and lay the chops round it. A very small and neatly cut ■ paper frill at the end of each bone is a pretty fiuish, but you must be careful it does not look greasy. For the middle dishes beef a la mode and tongue. Bjsef a la Mode. About 6 lbs. of beef without bone is a pretty size for a middle dish. It should be larded with fat bacon, and stewed many hours very slowly with three or four onions, two carrots, one head of celery, a little spice, pepper, and salt. When very tender take it off the fire, and let it stand till cold. Have ready a rich brown gravy, and some carrots and turnips cut into different shapes. To this add a glass of sherry, and when you have skimmed the fat from the beef stew it slowly again for nearly an hour in the gravy. Serve it with plenty of nicely cut vegetables, and have it highly glazed. The Tongue must also be jrjazed and orna- mented with a neatly cut frill, and a wall of very white rice round it. Dish Decokations. The second course of a pinner is the one in which the good taste of tho cook can be shown. Each dish should be orna- mented in some way or another. Flowers always strike us as having the prettiest effect, for with them you en contrast the colours so ^ell. Thus on a blanc-manger place scarlet geraniums or verbenas; on a jelly some white flower, as the white erica, or the small buds of a white rose ; but unless you have a green- house such an embellishment is impossible at all seasons of the year. If you happeu to have a barberry tree you will find the red bunches of berries very pretty, and very useful for the ornamental part of the dinner, and if kept in salt and water they will look fresh for a long time. Pretty ornaments can be made, after a little practice, from the dried citron or lemon- peel, and also from fresh oranges and lemons. If you can manage nothing else thin slices of lemon placed on each other round a highly coloured jelly look far better than the bare dish. FiVen if the cook succeeds in flavouring every- thing to the " palate of perfection," yet, if the Jesuit of her labour is turned on to a dish, and •left there without any additions, the appearance ^of the dinner will be a failure. Having said this much on " garnishing " we must lower our thoughts a little, and turn our attention to a few receipts. Game must be very carefully " basted" and floured before sending it to table. Bread Sauce. The following proportions are excellent;—^A small bit of onion chopped finely, boiled in a table-spoonful of water, with some white peppercorns; strain it, and add a tea-cupful of very thin cream, three table- spoonsful of very finely grated bread, a little ground pepper, and salt; boil up once only. The Jelly is the dish which requires most attention in the dinner. It must be made the day before, and in the following manner :— Take two calves' feet cut into pieces; simmer in three quarts of water for five or six hours, care being taken that it is skimmed frequently; strain it through a sieve, and when cold take off all the fat very carefully, and wipe the top of the jelly quite dry with a cloth; put it into a stewpan, with the juice of four lemons, the rinds of two, ^ lb. of white sugar, a few grains of cochineal, a small pinch of saffron, and half a stick of cinnamon; whisk the whites of five eggs, and add them and the shells to the jelly; continue whisking till it boils, when add three wine-glassesful of white wine ; let it run twice through a jelly bag, in order to have it quite clear; pour it whilst hot into a mould. A very pretty addition to a jelly is to place pre- served strawberries or bunches of currants in a wreath round the mould, pouring a little jelly in first; then place the fruit and add more jelly ; continue this until the mould is full. If the jelly is not all eaten at table the cook should put it into a basin, round which is boiling water. It will then soon melt, and should be poured into a small mould. The remains thus - make a pretty luncheon dish the next day. Blanc-manger is not such a troublesome dish to make as the jelly. To one quart of thin cream add 1 oz. of isinglass, i lb. of white sugar, half the peel of a lemon cut very thin, and four laurel leaves ; simmer over a slow fire till the isinglass is melted; strain it through a very fine sieve, and pour it into a mould. A pretty dish can also be made from the remains of the blanc-manger:—Cut it into slices (with a silver knife) about the thickness of two fingers; : have a dish of stewed pears or apples ready, and place these slices round them. Blanc- manger made with arrowroot instead of isinglass is a very wholesome dish, and much more economical. It requires some little care whilst boiling, or it is apt to burn. The proportions are these:—Mix nearly 3 ozs. of arrowroot in a little cold milk ; boil a quart of milk sweetened to your taste with the lemon-peel and laurel leaves ; when quite boiling take the leaves out, and pour the milk on to the arrowroot, stirring it all the time; put it immediately into a mould- fitiA tiivr) it out next day. This you ' 2 e" "