[ 207 ] CAK CAK your cakes, and put them on tins. When they have stood to rise bake them in a quick oven. Care should be taken never to put your yeast to water or milk too hot or too cold, as either extreme will destroy the fermentation. In summer it should be lukewarm, in winter a little warmer, and in very cold weather warmer still. When it has first risen, if you are not prepared, it will not hurt to stand an hour. CAKE, SAVOY. Put 14 whole eggs on one side of the pair of scales and their weight in fine sugar on the other side ; take out the sugar and 7 of the eggs, and balance the remaining 7 with fine flour; then put the flour aside, break the eggs, putting the yolks apart from the whites. Add to the yolks the sugar you have weighed, a little grated lemon-peel, and some dried, chopped orange flowers. Beat them all up together for half an hour; then whip the whites of the eggs, put the flour you have weighed to them, then gradually mix the whole together, stirring the ingredients with the whisk as you mix them. Have ready a cake ring, butter it, put the cake in it, and set it in an oven moderately hot a full hour and a half. When done turn it carefully out upon a dish. If it is of a fine golden colour serve it simply, but if it is of too deep a colour ice it with veiy fine sugar, the white of an egg, and the juice of half a lemon. Beat well together with a wooden spoon till the icing is very white. The cake should not be served until the ice is per- fectly dry. CAKE, SEED. Take 1 lb. of lump sugar well beaten and sifted, 12 ozs. of flour well dried, 2 ozs. of ground caraway seeds, 8 eggs well beaten; then put in your sugar; beat them first well together; add your flour and caraways. Beat them all well together. Butter your cake but not too much, and then bake it. CAKE, SEED (Irish). Beat to a cream 8 ozs. of fresh butter and ^ pint of rose water at a time. By degrees mix into it 1 lb. of sifted loaf sugar, and then 9 well beaten eggs; add 12 ozs. of flour and 3 ozs. of flour of rice dried and sifted, J lb. of blanched and pounded sweet or bitter almonds, 1 tea-spoonful of essence of lemon, and 1 oz. of caraway seeds. Beat all these well together. Bake it in a cake-tin, which must be buttered and lined with paper, also buttered. It will require about one hour and a half to bake in a quick oven. It may be made without the almonds or the essence of lemon. CAKE, SEED (Rich). Take 5 lbs. of fine flour, well dried, and 4 lbs. of single-refined sugar beaten and sifted; mix these together and sift them through a hair sieve; then wash 4 lbs. of butter in 8 spoonsful of rose or orange-flower water, mashing the butter with your hands till it is like cream ; beat 20 yolks and 10 whites of eggs, and put to them 6 spoonsful of sherry wine; put in the flour by degrees, and keep stirring it with your hand all the time. You must not begin mixing it till the oven is almost hot, and after it is mi.xed let it stand some time before you put it into the hoop. When you are ready to put it in the oven, put to it 8 ozs. of candied orange-peel sliced, with as much citron, and 1^ lb. of caraway comfits; mix them well and put it into the hoop. It must be a quick oven, and two or three hours will be sufiicient to bake the cake, after which you may ice it if you please. CAKE, SHORT. Dissolve i lb. of fresh butter in as much milk as will make 1^ lb. of flour into a paste, roll it out about J inch thick, and cut it into large round cakes. Do them in a frying-pan and serve them hot. They are eaten with butter. CAKE, SHREWSBURY. Having beaten i lb. of butter to a cream, put in i lb. of flour, 1 egg, 6 ozs. of loaf sugar beaten and sifted, i oz. of caraway seeds mixed into a paste and roll them in. Cut them round with little tins, or a small glass, prick them, lay them on sheets of tin, and bake them in a slow oven. CAKE, SPONGE (1). Weigh 10 eggs and their weight in very fine sugar, and that of 6 in flour; beat the yolks with the flour, and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth; then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with the other ingredients, and beat them well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an hour. CAKE, SPONGE (2). Take the juice and grated rind of a lemon, 12 eggs, 12 ozs. of finely- pounded loaf sugar, the same of dried and sifted flour; then with a horn spoon beat the yolks of 10 eggs, add the sugar by degrees, and beat it till it will stand when dropped from the spoon. Put in at separate times the two other eggs, yolks and whites ; whisk the 10 whites for eight minutes, and mix in the lemon-juice, and when quite stiff take as much as the whisk will lift and put it upon the yolks and sugar, which must be beaten all the time. Mix in lightly the flour and grated peel, and pour it all gradu- ally over the whites. Stir it together and bake it in a buttered tin or in small tins. Do not more than half fill them. CAKE, SPONGE (Rice). Put 12 eggs into a scale, and balance them in the other scale with their weight in broken loaf sugar. Take out 4 of the eggs, remove the sugar, and balance the remaining 8 eggs with an equal quantity of rice-flour. Rub off on some lumps of the sugar the yellow rind of 3 fine large ripe lemons; then powder all the sugar; break the eggs one at a time into a saucer, and put all the whites into a pitcher, and all the yolks into a broad, shallow, eftnhen pan. Having poured the whites