[ 291 ] CHI CHI slices of bacon, and braise them for an hour. Take off the bacon carefully, add culhs to the sauce, skim, and strain it over the chickens. CHICKENS, HORLY OF. Singe and cut up two fat chickens the same as for a fricassee; put the pieces into ajar, season them with salt, pepper, parsley, scallions, 2 bay .leaves, and the juice of 2 lemons; wash and peel a dozen large onions as nearly of the same size as can be; cut them into slices of an equal thickness, making use only of the outer skins. About half an hour before they are wanted drain your pieces of chicken, sprinkle them well with floui", and put them into a moderately heated pan. When they are of a proper colour and sufB- cienily done lay them on a clean cloth to drain ; then make your pan very hot, and, having well floured the onion rings, fry them also of a good colour; drain them on a cloth; dish the chickens en brusson, with the onions on the top and a hot aspic underneath. CHICKENS IN JELLY. Lard a couple of chickens with bacon rolled in spices and sweet herbs, and boil them with a knuckle of veal, i pint of white wine, cloves, parsley, shallots, thyme, bay leaf, and coriander. When done take out the chickens, and let them cool ; then skim and strain the liquor, and boil it a short time with a lemon sliced, and a raw egg to clarify it. When that is done strain it through a napkin. Place the chickens in a pan just hig enough to hold them, wash them over with the white of egg, garnish them with sprigs of parsley, and colour them if you think proper. Let the chickens lie with the breasts downwards, and cover them with the jelly. When they are wanted place the pan a minute or two in hot water, and turn the chickens over gently. CHICKENS, MAROQUIN. Choose two fine fat chickens, and give them a few turns over the fire in a little oil; let them cool, and dry them thoroughly. MakeastuBBiig with the livers, truffles, streaked bacon, butter, salt, pepper, herbs, &c., all chopped small, and unite them with the yolks of two eggs ; fill the chickens with this, and put some under the thighs and ■wings ; place slices of bacon over it so that the stuffing may remain in the proper place; put two large slices of bacon over that, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast them. You may serve them either with crayfish, butter, or blond. CHICKENS EN MATELOTE. Cut a couple of chickens into quarters, and put them into a stewpan lined with bacon and small onions. After they have been in a short time add to them an eel cut in pieces, a small fish, and a dozen crayfish, with salt, pepper, bay leaves, and morels; moisten the whole with equal quantities of stock and white wine ; cover the stewpan, and let it stand over a moderate fire for three hours. Place all the pieces on a dish, and garnish it with crayfish or dried crusts put alternatelv, and pour the sauce over it. CHICKENS IN A MINUTE. Cut a chicken in pieces, and put it in a stewpan with a little butter; add to it some mushrooms, parsley, and scallions ; sprinkle flour over, and shake it; moisten it with stock or water and white wine. When it has boiled once take it from the fire, and put in the yolks of one or two eggs and a little vinegar or lemon-juice. CHICKENS WITH ONIONS. Put some slices of bacon, oil, salt, and plenty of small onions in a stewpan. When the latter are half done pour over them a pint of stock, a little white wine, fennel, parsley, &c. The whole being nearly done put in a couple of pale-roasted chickens, stew them about a quarter of an hour, and serve them with the sauce reduced. CHICKENS WITH PARMESAN. Braise a couple of chickens as usual, and when nearly done add to them some stock, white wine, cullis, and butter; season according to taste. When sufficiently done strain some of the sauce into your dish, and grate into it Parmesan cheese; place the chickens in this, and pour over the remainder of the sauce; grate more Parmesan on, and bake it. CHICKENS AND PEAS. Blanch and cut in slices ^ lb. of bacon, melt Jib. of butter, put in the bacon, and give it a little colour. When the roux is a fine white put in the cut-up chickens, with a little stock; mix it well, season it with parsley, young onions, half a clove of garlic, and a clove. Let it boil, and put in a pint or quart of peas; cook it over a strong fire with the cover off; skim; dish the fowls; if the sauce is too thin reduce. CHICKENS, PULLED. Cut off the legs, rump, and side bones of a cold chicken, and pull all the white parts into shreds without the skin; toss them up in a little cream, flour, butter, pounded mace, pepper, salt, and lemon- juice ; stir them together till the butter is melted ; then lay it in a dish, place the rump in the middle, and the legs at each end, having previously seasoned and broiled them. CHICKENS EN REDERIGOTES. Cut the chickens into quarters, and take out all the bones ; make a farce of fat livers, veal, parsley, pounded bacon, salt, pepper, and the yolks of two or three eggs ; put some of this upon each limb, put several of them together, cover them ■with the same, wrap them in paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When done take off the paper very carefully, so as not to remove the farce from the chicken; place it on a hot dish, and pour blond over it. CHICKENS A LA REINE. Cut all the