[ 356 3 COR COR ripe in July and August. It is grateful and strengthening to the stomaohj helps digestion, expels wind, and is frequently used as a corrector in strong purging medicines, checking their tea* dency to produce griping. CORIANDER DRAGfiES. Take any quantity of coriander seeds, put them in the tossing pan over the fire, and let them warm. When they are warm throw them in alwut half a glass of vinegar, and stir them well till they are dry; have clarified sugar, which hoil in another pan; then when the corianders are dry add a little gum to them, do the same again till they are dry, and continue so doing till you see they are covered to the size you want to have them. When that is done take the corianders out from the pan, wash them well, put them in again, and stir them well till they are all warm; then take your clarified sugar which you have previously boiled to the first degree. When this is done put it in an instrument of copper made on purpose for the operation, and at the bottom of which there is a little hole. Hang it up by a packthread string, that the sugar may fall from about a yard high into the pan where the corianders are. While the sugar falls into your pan keep stirring your dragees till you see they are well pearled over, or rough and grainy. When they are sufficiently so take them out, and place them in the stove to finish drying, CORIANDER ICES. Bruise 1 oz. of cori. ander seeds, infuse them about an hour in 1 pint of warm water with | lb. of sugar, and sift through a napkin ; then finish like other ices. CORIANDER. SUGARED. Those seeds are sugared in the same manner as sugared almonds. CORIANDER WATER. Having cleared your coriander seeds from the husks, put a handful into 1 quart of water, with ^ lb. of sugar, and set it by to infuse for two or three hours; then pour the liquor out of one pot into another. Strain it and keep it for use. CORK. This light, readily compressible, and elastic substance is produced chieily in Spain and Portugal by a species of oak (Quercus suber). Of this tree it is the outer bark. About 45,000 cwts. are annually imported into this iountry. Cork is applied to various uses by different nations. The Egyptians made coffins of it, which, being lined with a resinous composition, preserved dead bodies from corruption. The Spaniards burn it to make that colour we call Spanish black used by painters; they also em- ploy it to line stone walls, an expedient which not only renders them much warmer, but also prevents their becoming moist in damp weather. In medicine the bark as well as the acorn of the cork tree is reputed to be astringent after being burnt, reduced to powder, and used externally; but in Britain the former is prin- cipally employed for stopping bottles and casks, and lining the inner soles of shoes and slippers. For bottling we warn our readers to employ none but the best corks. Many bottles of wine and of other liquors are injured or lost by a false economy when purchasing corks. The best are called velvet corks, and none others should be used. See Bottling. CORNER DISHES. Slices of apples and potatoes fried make a pretty corner dish, with a light netted doily under them. During the Christmas festivities ladies are frequently at a loss for a change in their routine of supper entertainments. The above will be found a favourite. Ham sliced so thin as to curl, and built pyramidically, interspersed with parsley, looks extremely well as another corner dish. CORN-FLOWER. See Bbeak-your-Spec- TACLES. CORNS. These are small hard tumours, commonly seated on the toes or on other parts of the feet. Sometimes they affect the hands. In some instances the skin is altogether the seat of the disorder ; in others corns extend to the cellular substance. In the first mode the indurated part is moveable, in the latter it is fixed. Acute pain and more or less of inability to walk are other characteristics. They are ge- nerally the effect of pressure, and usually arise from shoes of too small dimension. The common mode of treating corns is by first bathing the feet for about half an hour in warm water, and then paring off as much of the part as possible without giving pain. A little ad- hesive plaster may be afterwards applied. Tlie process should be occasionally repeated. If the causes inducing the complaint be at the same time also removed it generally proves effectual. Another method is to allow the corn to grow to some length through a piece of perforated leather. They may be afterwards cut round the root, or simply extracted. Should the corn be situated in the sole of the foot it will be sometimes expedient to put in the shoe a felt sole, in which a hole may be made large enough to admit the part painfully afflicted. As a preventive of this troublesome afiection the size and figure of the shoe ought to be strictly attended to. It should be made sufficiently large, and of a shape correspondent to that of the foot. CORPULENCY. When corpulency reaches a certain extent it becomes an absolute dis- ease. Persons predisposed to this state of body who are enabled to indulge in good feeding and much sleep, a calm indolent life, free from mental inquietude, are sure to be visited by it.