BOR BOR [ 139 ] LonguevtUe wines are very light, spirituous, and fine, but not so rich in flavour. Calon wines are well-bodied, and possess flavour and bouquet. Red Wines of the Third Quality. Pau- illac, Margaux, Pessac, St. Julien cte Eegnac, and St. Estephe, the best vineyards of which are quoted above in the first and second class, furnish also wines partaking of the qualities of all the first classes. At Pessac, la Mirsion and le Pape Clement are distinguished. St. Julien is famous for flavour and bouquet; St. Estephe, for its aromatic perfume, which partakes of the violet. Castelnau de Medoc wines partake of the quali- ties of Margaux, but are inferior. Cantenac wines are of a good colour, full bodied, spirituous, with flavour and bouquet. Talence produces go"t)d fii'm wines, with much of the quality of Haut-Brion, particularly Le Haut-Talence; il/e- rignac, some wines like the pi-eceding. Le Cote de Canon wines are light, fine, and spirituous ; not so sharp as those of Medoc, but equal in price to those of St. Estephe. Red Wines of the Fourth Quality. The above vineyards furnish also wines which are called in the country wines of the fourth quality crus of High Medoc. At Paris they frequently figure as wines of the first quality. Laborde, Cassac, Blanquefort, Macau, St. Surinde, and Ca- dourne wines are of a good quality, improvable by keeping. St. Emilion, near Libourne, wines are of a good colour, body, and flavour. The wines of Low Medoc in general rank lower, except a few. Lajac is distinguished. Queyiies, Montserrant, and Bassens, are the best vineyards amongst those called des Palus. The wines are deep coloured and full bodied ; gain by age and transport; and those of Queyries fetch the same price as the third class of Medoc. Red Wines of the Fifth Quality. The same vineyards furnish these wines and those which only rank as vins ordinaires of the second quality and below it. Their number and shades of difference are sufiicient to form many sub- divisions. The vineyards of Amies, Laissouys, Bouliac, Bacatan, Gilet, St. Gervais, Asque, Latresne, Quinsac, St. Loubez, Valenton, Macau, Bouluan, Izon, and Candausac et Baurech, are called the cargo wines, because they are in general sent to foreign countries, and improve by the voyage. Bourg, Le Tourne, and Lan- goiran wines, with body and spirit, gain flavour and bouquet by keeping. St. Macaire are deep- coloured, but spiritless wines. The common wines are those of L'Isle St. Georges, Petits Palus, de Libourne, d'Arveynes, de Blays, and de Fronsac; they become tolerably agreeable by age, but are seldom exported. Bordeaux, White Wines of. The white wines are of two kinds, those of Les Graves, which are dry, vith a bouquet partaking of the odour of cloves, and Pierre-a-Fusil. Those on the left bank, as Sauterne, Barsac, &c., are firm bodied, or somewhat rich flavoured and spirited. This difference arises from the maturity of the grapes ; those of Les Graves are gathered at once, whilst those of Sauterne, &c., are gathered at different times, as they become quite ripe, and the skin sticks to the fingers. In the country called Les Graves are the crus St. Bris and Car- bonnieux, the most esteemed dry wines, with an aromatic bouquet. Pontac and Dulamon unite all the qualities of Les Graves, but are without the taste of Pierre-d-Fusil; they keep well and improve. The vineyards producing the rich- flavoured wines are those of Sauterne, a dis- ti'ict of Lanjon; the wines are very firm, fine, spirituous, aromatic flavoured, and of charming bouquet. Duroy, Yguern-Salus, and the Filiol, are the most distinguished vineyards. The connoisseurs arrange them in this order: Bar- sac district of Podensac; these wines, and par- ticularly those of High Barsac, are of equal value with those of Sauterne ; they differ by a little less fineness, flavour, and bouquet; but are more spirituous, insomuch that, in a very favour- able season, they burn like brandy. With age they become amber coloured. The crus Filiol is the best. Preignac wines partake of the qualities of Barsac and Sauterne, but have less flavour than the last, and less spirit than the first. Beaumes possesses the qualities and flavour of the above. There are fine white wines of excellent quality, lightish brown in colour, aroma most agreeable, and some of rather sweet taste. White Wines of the Secon'd Quality. Largon. These wines were formerly the best of the province ; they are of the same kind as those of Barsac and Sauterne when new, but do not improve by age. The frosts in 1788 and 1795 having destroyed the vines, the pro- prietors of many vineyards substituted the Chalosse, which resists the cold better, but is of a bad quality. Cerons, in Les Graves, wines are rather inferior, but of the same price with those of Largon. To these may be added the second quality of the vineyards of the first class. White Wines of the Third Quality. Pu- jols, Hats, Landiras, and Virelade, in Les Graves, are dry wines, like, but a little inferior to those of Cerons. St. Croix du Mont and Loupiac are wines which keep a long time their sweetness; they are fine, and have a peculiarly agreeable flavour, particularly those of St. Croix. White Wines of the Fourth Quality. Lavgoiran, Rioms, and Cadillac, are first-rate ordinary wines. Cambes, Quinsac, and Cam- blanes, on the Garonne, are wines like those of Langoiran, but inferior.