CAS CAR [ 246 ] CARVING: Venison, Haunch of. Have the joint lengthways before you, the knuckle being the fui'thest point. Cut from a to 6, but be careful not to let out the gravy; then cut along the whole length from a down to d. The knife should slope in making the first cut, and then the whole of the gravy will be received in the well. The greater part of the fat, which is the favourite portion, will be found on the left side, and care must be taken to serve some with each slice. CASCARILLA BARK is obtained from the Croton eleutheria. It is in curled pieces, or rolled up into short quills ; its fracture is smooth and close, of a dark brown colour; odour, light and agreeable. When burning it emits a smell resembling that of musk, which at once dis- tinguishes it from all other barks. It tastes moderately bitter, with some aromatic warmth. Its active constituents are partially extracted by alcohol and water, and completely by proof spirit. It is carminative and tonic, and is an excellent adjunct to cinchona, rendering it by its aromatic qualities more agreeable to the stomach, and increasing its powers. It is valuable in dys- pepsia and flatulent cholic, in dysentery and diarrhoea, and in the gangrenous thrush peculiar to children. It is most efficacious in substance ; it may, however, be given in the form of infusion or tincture. Boiling dissipates its aromatic principle ; the extract, therefore, merely acts as a simple bitter. Dose of the powder, 12 grains- to ^ drachm. CASHMERE WOOL is obtained from about the roots of the long hair of the Thibet goat. Even in Cashmere this wool sells at the rate of 24 lbs. for forty shillings. The wool is spun by women, and coloured afterwards. From it are formed the world-'-enowned Cashmere shawls. On one of these shawls, if full-patterned, four weavers will be employed for six months, and even on a plain shawl two weavers will be occupied for the same long period. The needle is oc- casionally used in the production of the patterns, but Vigne observes that, "if the pattern be worked with the needle the shawl is far inferior in every respect to those in which the pattern is woven in," and that "an excellent pair (the shawls being always made in pairs) of the former description may be purchased in Cashmere for 150 rupees (about a6l5) whereas an equally good pair of the usuleh (the real), or the latter kind, could not be procured for less than 700 or 800 rupees." The process is exceedingly slow, the weaving of a pair of shawls, or, as some writers have it, of a single shawl, often employing three men with a clumsy, old-fashioned loom for a period of six months; and owing to the numer- ous heavy duties charged upon the shawls between leaving the loom and reaching a pur- chaser in this country, the price of real Cash- mere shawls of the best quality is very high. They have frequently been sold in London at from 100 to 400 guineas each, and in one in stance, when the import duty, which has since been greatly reduced, amounted to 80 per cent, on the value, as much as 500 guineas were demanded for a single shawl. The peculiar softness of Cashmere shawls appears to be in some degree attributable to the processes of washing to which they are subjected after weaving. "The best water for this use," observes Vigne, " is found in the canal between the lake and the floodgates at the Drogjun. Some ruins, in large limestone blocks, are lying on the washing-place, and in one of these is a round hole about a foot and a half in diameter, and a foot in depth. In this the shawl is placed, and, water being poured over it, it is stamped on by the naked feet for about five minutes, and then taken into the canal, by a man standing in the water : one end is gathered up in his hand, and the shawl swung round and beaten with great force upon a flat stone, being dipped into the canal between every three and four strokes." The shawls, if coloured, are then dried in the shade, as the hot sun would injure the colours, and about ten days afterwards the same process is repeated, though for a less time. White shawls, however, after being treated in like manner, are spread in the sun and bleached by sprinkling water upon them ; and the alternate washing and beating, and drying and bleaching in the sun is repeated three times, soap being occasionally used in the second washing and stamping. " There is something in the water of the canal," observes Vigne, " which certainly communicates to the shawl a softness which cannot be given to those manufactured at any place in the plains of Hindostan. At the same time," he adds, "those made in Paris or at Nor- wich would be, I think, as soft, were it not for the greater closeness of texture consequent on their being made by a machine instead of the hand. For the same reason," he proceeds, " it is well known that the calico made in India is much softer and is much more durable than that made in England." The water is readily found near the surface of the ground, is bad tasted,