C ] CAB CAB CABBAGE, RED (Pickled). Slice your cabbage thin; then lay it in salt for twenty-four hours, strain it very dry, and put it in a stone jar with allspice, mace, and ginger. Boil your vinegar, and put it on boiling hot; tie it very close, repeat the vinegar three times, and it will be fit for use. CABBAGE, RED (Stewed) (1). Boil your cabbage for a short time, then take out the heart, and cut it into pieces; then put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter, some salt and pepper, and let it stew over a moderate fire, stirring it very frequently whilst dressing to mix it well with the butter. CABBAGE, RED (Stewed) (2). Cut the cabbage very thin, and put it into the stewpan with a small slice of ham and i oz. of butter at the bottom, ^ pint of broth, and 1 gill of vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. When it is very tender add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted ; then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. CABBAGE, RED (Syktjp of). Cut and wash a large red cabbage, put it into a stewpan, and boil it in water three or four hours till there remains no more than a pint of liquor; put the cabbage in a sieve, squeezing it till you have expressed all the juice; let it settle and pour it off clear; then put 1 lb. of honey into a saucepan with a glass of water; let it boil, skimming it often. When the honey is very clear put it to the cabbage juice, and boil them together till of the CMisistence of syrup, like all others. CABBAGE SALAD. Boil a Savoy cabbage in water; drain, and dress it as you would a salad, with salt, pepper, some Provence oil, and vinegar, adding one or two anchovies and a few capers. It may be served either hot or cold. CABBAGE SOUP. Put into your pot a few pounds of sliced beef and bits of ham ; let it catch a little ; then add weak broth or water, and all sorts of roots, a cabbage tied and well scalded, a bit of pickled pork, a bay leaf or mignonette. If you would garnish this soup with any wild fowl, boil it in the same pot, and garnish the dish with the cabbage and the pickled pork, cut in pieces. CABBAGE SOUP (German). Cut in small pieces and wash the heart of a fine cabbage, and set it over a slow fire in a little butter. When the pieces begin to feel tender and the butter is a little reduced, add some stock and veal gravy in equal quantities ; skim carefully, and when the soup has become of a brown colour throw in little round and thin pieces of bread. Season to your taste, and serve. CABBAGE, STEWED Blanch two mid- dling-sized cabbages in water with a little salt, when they have been twenty minutes in the boiling water take them out and put them into cold water; then let them drain; after this take out their hearts; then cut very small -^Ib. of veal and ^Ih. of bacon; add some salt, whole pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, and allspice, all weU pounded; then add the yolks of 7 or 8 eggs, and mix the whole well together with the veal and bacon; put some of this stuffing into each of your cabbages, in the place of the hearts and tie them up with packthi'ead. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon and slices of veal, a little ham, 3 carrots, 4 onions, a little thyme, a bay leaf, and 2 cloves ; then put in the cab- bages, cover them with bacon, and moisten with stock, adding a little salt and pepper; let the whole simmer for an hour and a half; then let them drain on a napkin, and extract the gravy from them by gently pressing them; then untie and arrange them on a dish ; glaze them, and serve a Spanish sauce all over them. If you do not happen to have any Spanish sauce ready make a light roux, and moisten it with the liquor in which your cabbages were dressed. Strain it through a silk sieve, and then pour it over the cabbages. CABBAGE, STUFFED. Blanch a large Savoy cabbage, and then put between its leaves some forcemeat, made of any cold meat you may have in the house, adding an equal quantity of sausage, some pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a small handful of boiled rice. When you have put into the cabbage as much stufi&ng as it will contain tie it well with packthread. Next make a roux with some butter, flour, and stock, properly seasoned; beat up the cabbage in this roux, being careful that it does not break. Keep adding stock from time to time, so that the cabbage may always be covered. When it is perfectly done serve it in a deep dish in its soup. CABBAGE IN SURPRISE. Take a good whole cabbage, and, having boiled it a quarter of an hour, put it into cold water and squeeze it, taking care not to break the leaves; then care- fully take out the heart, and supply the place with parboiled chestnuts and sausages, replacing the leaves in such a manner as to conceal that which is within; tie the cabbage with packthread, and stew it in some stock, a little salt, and coarse pepper, roots, onions, and a bunch of herbs. When done draw, and serve with a good butter sauce. CABIN. In these days some members, if not all the members, of a family, usually have occasion to undertake a long sea voyage, and as it is usually quite a new mode of life, we will, from experience, detail what we know to be most desirable in fitting up a cabin for the occnsinn