ALM ALM [ i 'i 3 or grate the bread ; then beat ^ lb. of blanched almonds very fine till they become a paste, with 2 tea-spoonsful of orange-flower water ; beat up the yolks of 8 eggs and the whites of 4 ; mix all well together ; put in a ^ lb. of loaf sugar, and stir in 3 or 4ozs. of melted butter; put it over the fire, and keep stirring until it is thick; lay a sheet of paper at the bottom of a dish, and pour in the ingredients. Bake half an hour. ALMOND PUDDING (Boiled). Blanch and beat 1 lb. of sweet almonds with a little rose water; mix 1 lb. of bread, grated, a little nutmeg, ^ lb. of butter, and the yolks of 6 eggs ; boil 1 pint of cream, coloured with a very little saffron; add it to the eggs and a little flour; knead it well, and then put in the almonds, beating it up till all are mixed together. Boil it for half an hour in a buttered cloth. ALMOND PUDDING (in Cups). Beat or mix 6 ozs. of sweet almond paste with the paste of a few bitter, 4 ozs. of very nice butter, 3 eggs, or 3 yolks and 2 whites, ^ gill of rich cream, a small glass of sweet wine, with any spice and sugar. A bit of paste maybe doubled over the mouths of the cups ; fill them half, or, if to be turned out, butter them. ALMOND PUDDING (Scotch). Sweeten and boil 1 pint of cream; add 5 yolks with a little almond paste; put in some coriander seed ; bake it in a lined and bordered dish. ALMOND PUFFS. Blanch 2 ozs. of sweet almonds and beat them fine with orange-flower water; whisk the whites of 3 eggs to a high froth; strew in a little sifted sugar; mix the almonds with the sugar and eggs, and add more sugar till it is as thick as paste; lay it in cakes, and bake it on paper in a cool oven. ALMOND RICE CUP PUDDING. Mix ^Ib. of almond paste with 1 pint of cream ; mix in 2 spoonsful of ground rice and a little essence of lemon ; let it cool and add the yolks or whites, according to the stiffness wanted, of from 2 to 4 eggs. If it be turned out, put some citron chips in the bottom of the cup. If to be served in the cups, lay some on the top; dip the cups in water before the pudding is put in. Thej' look beautiful hogged over with almonds or pistachio nuts, and served in coloured cream; or the pudding coloured and served in white cream, or in broken jelly. ALMOND TART. Blanch and beat i lb. of any of those nuts'with orange-flower water, a musk plum or two, cinnamon, ginger, and sugar; beat 10 yolks; thicken them over the fire with 1 pint of cream or milk ; mix all together with some grated Naples biscuit; put it into a sheeted dish, and, when baked, stick it over with whatever nuts it is made of cut in fillets. ALMOND TART (Gkeen). Pull almonds feom the tree before they shell; scrape oS the down with a knife, and put them into a pan of cold water as fast as they are done ; then put them into a skillet with more spring water over a very slow fire till they simmer. Change the water twice, and let them lie in the last till tender ; put them between two dry cloths, and press them dry. Make a sj-rup with double-refined sugar, and put them to simmer a little; repeat this the next day; put them in a stone jar, and cover them closp, as they turn black if exposed to the air. The yellower they are when in the water the greener they will be afterwards. Put them into a sugar crust; lay the lid close, and cover them with syrup, and bake in a moderate oven. ALMONDS, BITTER, resemble sweet al- monds in appearance. They yield a large portion of sweet oil; but the pulp after pressure is in- tensely bitter. To many animals and birds they are a fatal poison. They are used in making ratafia and cherry brandy. The oil and emulsions are used in medicine, and soap for washing the hands is made from them and sweet almonds. By confectioners they are employed to give flavour. The principle which gives that flavour, and also to the leaves, is prussic acid, a powerful poison, and this renders a large draught of noyau or other similar cordial often injurious or fatal. Bitter almonds should always be used with great caution. ALMONDS, BLANCHED. Blanched al- monds are almonds steeped in boiling water till the skin comes off by pressing between the fingers. The hot water is then strained away, and the almonds, after being put in cold water, are peeled and dried till they are brittle. ALMONDS, BURNT, or Pralines. Sift the dust from some of the best Jordan almonds; rub them well with a cloth ; then put them into a preserving or stewpan, either with syrup or their own weight of sugar, and a little water. Keep them on the fire, and stir them continually till they crackle or the sugar changes colour; then take them o-rf; stir them gently to collect the sugar ; lay them on a sieve separately, and let them remain about two hours to dry in a moderate heat; after which prepare another pan of boiling syrup. Put them in again, and give them a second coating to make them perfectly white. To make Red Burnt Almonds, or Pealines. Mix about a tea-cupful of water with some cochi- neal, and put half of it into the first boiling syrup, and the other half, with a little more cochineal, into the second. ALMONDS, CRISPED. The almonds may Le rough or blanched, half and half, or in slices; boil IJlb. of sugar to nearly a candy height; put in 1 lb. of almonds, and keep stirring con- stantly with a long wooden spatula till the sugar