CLO [ 317 ] CLY of double-refined sugar, and boil it up again for three or four minutes; pour it into a china basin, and let it stand to cool. When it is quite cold skim it, put it into bottles, cork them well, and tie them down with leather. CLOVE PASTILS are made like those of cinnamon. The proportions are 6 ozs. of cloves to i oz. of gum dragon. CLOVE RATAFIA. Take f oz. of cloves, and the same of cinnamon broken in small pieces, and put them into ^ pint of water; let them infuse for twenty-four hours. The next day clarify 2 lbs. of double-refined sugar in a bottle of water; boil it to the blow or souffle, and then add to it 4 bottles of the best red Bordeaux. Strain into this the infusion of cloves and cinnamon, tie the spices in a little bag, and put them in also; cover the pan, and boil up the whole half a dozen times ; then take it from the fire, pour it into an earthen vessel, and cover it. When quite cold take out the bag and squeeze it. Then take a bottle of rectified spirits of wine in one hand, and a spoon in the other; pour the former into the liquor, stirring constantly; taste it frequently, and when sufficiently strong of the spirit cease pouring. It may be bottled immediately. Cork it tightly, tie the corks down, and seal them. The longer this liqueur is kept the belter it will be. CLOVE WATER. Bruise 1 oz. of cloves, put them into a quart of brandy, and distil it. Dissolve H lb. of sugar in a pint of clear water, and add to it the distilled mixture. Stir them well together, filter, and bottle it. CLOVES. This spice is the produce of a tree known to botanists as Caryophyllus aro- maticus. Cloves are the unexpanded flowers or flower-buds, and are first obtained when the tree is six years old. They are gathered in October and November before they open, and when they are still green, and are dried in the sun, after having been exposed to smoke at a heat of 120°, till they assume a brown hue. It is a curious fact that the flowers when fully developed are quite inodorous, and that the real fruit is not in the least aromatic. Form that of a nail, consisting of a globular head, formed of the four petals of the corolla, and four leaves of the calyx not yet expanded, and a germen situated below, nearly cylindrical, and scarcely an inch in length. Odour strong, fragrant, and aromatic. Taste acrid, aromatic, and per- manent. They are more stimulant than any of the other aromatics ; they are sometimes given alone, but more generally as a corrigent to other medicines. The Dutch frequently mix the best cloves with those from which the oil has been drawn. Essential oil of cloves, in consequence of the resinous matter which it holds in solution, has a specific gravity of 1 020, and consequently sinks in water. When the oil has a hot, fiery taste and a great depth of colour it is adulte- rated. It is imported from the Spice Islands. On account of its stimulant properties it is added to gripiiig extracts, or used as a local application in the toothache. CLOVES, ESSENCE OF. Infuse 1 drachm of oil of cloves in 2 ozs. of the strongest spirits of wine, apothecary's measure. CLOVES, OIL OF. This is made in the same manner as cinnamomum. The quantities are 1 oz. of cloves to 3 quarts of brandy, and 4 lbs. of sugar dissolved in 4 pints of water. CLOVES, SYRUP OF. Put i lb. of cloves and a quart of boiling water into a stewpan ; cover it closely, and boil gently for half an hour. Drain the cloves, and to 1 pint of liquor put 2 lbs. of sugar; beat up 2 eggs in a little cold water, add them to the above, and simmer the whole till it becomes a strong syrup. When cjld bottle it. CLOVES, TINCTURE OF. Steep 3 ozs. (apothecary's weight) of bruised cloves in a quart of brandy for ten days, and then strain it through a flannel bag. CLUB-MOSS. Lycopodium clavatum, or cjmmon club-moss, grows in dry mountainous places, heaths, and woods. It is principally found in the north of England ; produces a prostrate creeping stem from one to three yards in length ; flowers from July to August, and bears seeds which, if infused in ropy wine, will in a few days restore it. When thrown into a fire these seeds emit a bright flash, and also possess the peculiar property of being almost impervious to moisture, so *hat if they are scattered on a basin of water the hand may be immersed to the bottom without being wetted. In the north of Europe they are pulverised, ard applied externally for curing chaps in the skin and other sores. Beautiful mats or summer carpets are manufactured of the stalks of this plant in Sweden. Lycopodium selago, or fir-leaved club-moss, is very common on the mountainous heaths in the Highlands of Scotland, the Hebrides, and in the northern parts of England. This plant rises from two to five inches in height, and is in bloom from April to October. In the island of Raasay, in Ross-shire, and likewise in somo other places, the inhabitants employ it as a substitute for alum to fix the colour in dyeing. The Swedes make a decoction of it, and apply it to hogs and cattle for the destruction of ver- min. The Highlanders also occasionally take an infusioti of it as an emetic and cathartic, but it operates violently, and unless taken in a small dose causes giddiness and convulsions. CLYSTERS, or Injections, or Lavements,