FIL FIE [ 492 ] then for boiled prunes and roasted apples. His beverage should be linseed tea, toast and water, milk, whey, thin gruel, and balm tea. With these remarks we shall conclude our observa- tions on fever, either of the inflammatory or putrid kind, as requiring a treatment that could not possibly be anticipated from any other channel than through direct medical advice and superintendence. FIELDFARES. When they are picked and drawn lard them with bacon, put a paper round them, and lay them at a distance from the fire. W^hen they are nearly done take off the paper, and let them finish to be of a nice brown ; then serve with gravy or melted butter for sauce. FIG BLUE. See Blue. FIG S : To Keep. Put some figs in a large earthen jar, with a layer of their own leaves between them; then boil some water and honey, skimming it well (be careful not to make it too thick with the honey), pour it warm over the figs, and then stop the jar very closely. When you take out the figs for use soak them two hours in warm water. FIGS, GREEN: To Preserve. Slit some small green figs on the top, put them into water for ten days, and proceed thus:—Put as much salt into the water as will make it bear an egg; then let it settle, take off the scum, and put the clear brine to the figs; keep tliem in water for ten days, and then put them into fresh water; let them boil till you can easily pass a pin into them, drain them, and put them into other fresh water, shifting them every day for four days. Again drain them, put them into clarified sugar, warm them a little, and leave them to stand till next day; warm them again, and when they have become green give them a good boil; then boil some sugar to souffle, put it to them, and give them another boil. The next day drain and dry them. FIGS, PRESERVED. Take some half- ripe figs, prick them near the stalks, and blanch them. When half cold throw them into cold water, and then drain them; boil some clarified sugar to jjerle, put in the figs, and give them three or four boils with the pan covered closely; then take them from the fire, skim them well, and, having poured the whole into a pan, set it in a stove for the night. The next day drain off the syrup without removing the fruit, boil it up ten or a dozen times, and then pour it on them when no more than lukewarm. On the ensuing day, having drained off the syrup, boil it to (jrande perle ; then add the figs, cover the preserving pan closely, boil the whole up once, skim it well, and put it into pots, &c., for use. FIGS, RIPE: To Preserve. Take the white figs when ripe, slit them in the tops, put them into clarified sugar, and give them a good boil; skim them, and leave them to stand till the next day; then boil some sugar au souffle, put it to the figs, and give them another boil; the next day drain and dry th^m. FILBERT BISCUITS (I). Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and put them into a mortar to break their shells ; pick all the shells from them clean, pound them in a mortar very finely, and mix whites of eggs with them; take care they do not oil. Mix 3 lbs. of powder sugar with the nuts and whites of eggs to a proper thickness ; let your oven be of a moderate heat; then with a spaddle and knife drop small pieces about half the size of a nutmeg, put two or three sheets of paper under them, bake them of a fine brown, and all alike, and let them be cold before you take thera off the paper. FILBERT BISCUITS (2). Take i lb. of filberts, 1. oz. of bitter almonds, the whites of six and the yolks of three eggs, 1 oz. of flour, and i lb. of sugar. Blanch and pound the filberts and almonds, adding occasionally a little white of egg to prevent their oiling; beat the whites to a snow, and then the yolks; mix the latter with half the sugar, beat them well, and, having mixed the other ingredients together, put them into a sieve, and whilst you are beating sift them into the whites. When they are all thoroughly incorporated pour the preparation into paper cases, and bake them in a moderate oven. A little grated lemon-peel or any other aromatic ingredient added to the yolks greatly improves these biscuits. FILBERT BLANC-MANGER. Blanch 1 lb. of filberts, lay half of them in water for two hours, and put the other half into a pan over a moderate fire, stirring them constantly with a silver spoon till they are of a clear yellow, when remove them from the fire, and let them cool; then pound them, adding occasionally a little water to prevent their oiling. When well pounded take them from the mortar, and put them into a pan with two glasses and a half of water; press the whole through a napkin to extract the milk, to which put 1 oz. of sugar. As soon as the latter is dissolved press it a second time through a napkin, and add to it i oz. of isinglass. Proceed in a similar manner \yith the filberts which have been in the watei", by which means you will liave one part of the blanc-manger perfectly white, and the other a clear light yellow. Finish your blanc-manger in the usual way. FILBERT, BURNT (Cream Patissiere). Wash, drain, and dry ^Ib. of filberts, throw them into a preserving pan, in which is ^ lb. of sugar boiled to souffle; let them boil up about a dozen times, and then stir them lightly with a spatula that the sugar may adhere to the filberts.