BIL BIN [ 109 ] The following is sufficiently acti-ve for the ma- jority of cases :—Take of calomel, 3 grains ; con- serve of roses, enough to make a pill, which is to he taken at hedtime, and succeeded in the morning by the following draught:—Take of infusion of senna, 12 drachms ; Epsom salts, or tartrate of potash, 4 drachms ; tincture of jalap, 2 drachms. Or, the following pills :—Take of compound extract of colocynth, 1 scruple ; Ve- netian soap, 5 grains; calomel, 3 grains. Mix, and divide into 8 pills, of which let 2 be taken every four hours until they operate. Previous to and during the operation of the purgative medicine, other means may be em- ployed to diminish the febrile heat of the skin. If it be very great much advantage will be derived from sponging the face, hands, arms, and upper part of the body, with vinegar and water, and from the internal use of vegetable acids, as oranges, lemons, currants, &c. Certain medicines likewise will materially contribute to effect the object in view, such as this :—Take of Mindererus's spirit and camphor mixture, each 6 drachms ; antimonial wine, 30 drops. Mix, and make a draught, to be taken four or five times a day. Or, this :—Take of distilled watei", 6 ozs.; nitrate of potash, 1 drachm; liquor of tartarised antimony, 4 drachms ; liquor of car- bonate of ammonia, 3 drachms ; syrup of saffron, 2 drachms. Make a mixture, and let 2 table- spoonsful be taken every three or four hours. The length of time during which these means must be persevered in, and the frequency of their repetition, can only be determined by the particular circumstances of each individual case. We should, however, be cautious of abandoning their use at too early a period ; and in all cases it will be advisable to continue for some time to take gentle aperient medicines at regular intervals, such as rhubarb and magnesia, castor oil, Epsom or Glauber's salts, or small doses of any of the opening medicines above recom- mended. A fair trial of these medicines, in com- bination with regular exercise, and light animal diet, will seldom fail to remove all symptoms of complaint, when of recent occurrence, A failure will generally be found attributable to a want of restraint and self-command, or of proper assiduity and perseverance on the part of the patient, which lead him to indulge in an im- proper degree, or to stop short the moment when he was about to reap all the advantage of the plan he had pursued. When bilious disorders are chronic, or, in other words, of long standing, it .cannot reason- ably be expected that they should yield to the same means, or, in the same period of time, to the means most likely to nroduce relief. The approaches of the disease Lave been gradual, and almost unperceived ; so also must the cure proceed. Attempts to hasten recovery, by having recourse to violent or active measures, would not only prove void of utility, but would, on the contrary, aggravate the evils they were intended to remedy. Our motto here should be " slow, but sure," nor must the patient, de- spond because his improvement is not sudden and clearly marked; let him acquire confidence by contrasting the slowness of his recovery with the gradual and insensible, but yet marked man- ner in which his complaint formerly proceeded. In these cases, the first step is to check the progress of disease; the cure has already com- menced when that has ceased to advance. BILIOUS COLIC. The symptoms are violent and copious bilious vomiting and purg- ing, together with exquisite pain in the intes- tines. The pulse is small, and sometimes unequal. Much thirst and heat are followed by cold sweats. The disease is also attended with inflation, thirst, anxiety, spasms, faint- ings, and urgent depression of the strength and spirits. The hurtful powers are such as errors in diet; abuse of fermented or spirituous liquor; intense heat, as occasioning r-edundancy of bile, and strong mental emotions. This disease may be known from other intestinal evacuations by the enormous quantity of the fluids discharged, and by the dark complexion they assume. When the attack is violent, bilious colic sometimes proves fatal in the space cf a day. Should the symptoms be less urgent, or continue for eight- and forty hours, the termination is generally favourable. Tokens of danger are repeated faintiugs, cold sweats, hiccoughs, and violent spasmodic contraction of the muscles. Conious draughts of chicken broth, beef tea, gruel, or warm water, should instantly be administered. These liquids may also be injected as clysters. Negus or spirit sufficiently diluted is suitable drink. As soon as the strength will admit, the more solid articles of nutritious diet may be had recourse to. The temperature should be properly regulated. For the benefit of air, the person afflicted may be placed in an apartment sufficiently spacious. He should be kept free from much motion. The room may be somewhat darkened. The utmost stillness ought to be preserved. Hope, fortitude, and the energy of the mind, must be supported. Simple cordials are proper, together with opi- ates, warm bathing, and active fomentation to the belly. BILL OF FAKE. See Dinners—Autumn, SpRiNrr, Summer, Winter. BINDING (in Dressmaking). To make plain-binding, you must cut a strip of silk, on the bias, of twice the width you want for yonr binding. ' Double it, and run it on the right side of your flounce or cuff, keeping the raw