DAY [ 406 ] DAN ■which a decoction of them properly prepared can hardly be distinguished. DANDRIFF. This, often called Scurf, is prevented being formed at the roots of the hair by either of the following applications. If one fails let the other be tried :—Dissolve J oz. of borax and \ oz. of camphor in a pint of proof spirit of wine; dip a piece of flannel into the solution, and rub it well into the scalp. Or, mix together of liquor potassas, *2 fluid drachms; rose water, 5J fluid ozs.; spirit of rosemary, ^ fluid oz. Apply this as just directed. DARIOLS. Put a little more than half a quartern of flour upon a pie board, with \ lb. of butter, a little salt, and a glass of water; knead the whole together so as to make a firm paste, and then roll it to the thickness of half a finger; cut it into bits the size of a small patty pan, and form them with your hands into moulds, having an edge raised abopt an inch deep; put them into an oven moderately hot, and half or a quarter of an hour afterwards put into each half a pint of cream mixed with two spoonsful of flour, very little salt, and 1 oz. of sugar. When done strew sugar over them. DARNING. Beautiful darning should be reserved for that part of the stocking which may require mending above the shoe. That which is never to be seen but by our laundress should be more expeditiously despatched in inferior, but equally strong work. The art of " picking up " stitches, instead of darning eveiy hole that may appear, is a simple, expeditious, neat, and valuable method of mending stockings, which is not half so generally known as it ought to be. It is as follows :—Turn the stocking on the right side outwards ; thread a small sewing needle with very fine cotton; pass the fingers only down the stocking, keeping the thumb outside in order to preserve the edges of the hole in their places. " Fasten on " by darning backwards and forwards a few times at the end of the hole farthest from you; theij take on the needle two loops both on one side, and draw the thread through ; then two on the other side of the hole; draw them closely ; after- wariJs put the needle baclt into the last of the two loops or meshes, and talie one additional loop, so that there are always to be two consecutive loops on the needle, yet only one of them is to be a fresh one ; pass over to the opposite side, and again put the needle back into the loop from which the thread issues, and take another (the next loop) on to it; thus continue drawing the edges closely, and if this be done skilfully, wliich five minutes' practice will effect, the hole will be imperceptible. This is a case of simple drop])ing of stitches ; a gigantic gap, however, is considerably mitigated in its annoying di- inensious, and at least one-half the consequent trouble of darning will be spared, by drawing the edges together (or so near as will allow the stocking to remain flat and unpuckered) with very fine cotton. In this case the hole will be made considerably smaller, and the regular darning afterwards will entirely hide the useful tiny thread that has held the gaping edges in their places. When stitches drop in a stocking the fabric will generally be found very weak, and by the plan of " taking up the stitches," instead of an unsightly darn being displayed, and a large portion of time being employed upon this ugly space, nothing will be requisite but to thicken the thin part on the wrong side in the usual manner. DARTMOUTH PIE. Chop and mince Slbs. of the lean part of a leg of mutton, and half as much beef suet; keep it constantly stirred from the board to prevent the minute particles from sticking; add 1 lb. of currants, sift over them 3 ozs. of powdered lump sugar^ grate some nutmeg, and season with a little salt. Work this mixture into a paste composed of two parts of purified beef suet and one of fresh butter (both melted), and mix in the water which is to be used in making the crust; boil all together, and then pour it into the cavity formed in the centre of the flour, knead it up, and roll it out for a lining and covering to the dish. DAY, in general, signifies that space of time during which it continues to be light, in con- tradistinction to night, or the period of darkness, while the sun is illumining the other hemisphere. Hence the rising and setting of the sun are usually considered as the extent of the day, and the time that elapses from its setting to its rising again as the night. In consequence of the unequal length of days, resulting from the peculiar revolution of the planets producing the different seasons, we are inclined to think that many persons, espe- cially in the higher walks of life, avail them- selves of this irregularity, insomuch that, by the law of fashion, in winter they convert the night into A&y, and in summer exchange the most agreeable mornings and forenoons for damp unwholesome evenings and nights. It would be a vain attempt to reprobate this un- natural custom in those circles where it is fancied to be equally vulgar to repair to bed in good time and to rise early—a practice in- stinctively followed even by the lower animals. To the industrious and r)iore domestic members of society we venture to recommend, while in a good state of health, the following division of the day, namely, in spring and autumn to rise with the first rays of the sun; in summer, one hour after ; and in winter one hour before that luminary appears; to allot eveiy day, Sundays excepted, from ten to twelve hours to useful