[ 457 ] EGG EEL butter; bake them; pour off all tlie gravy, pressing them hard, that none may remaiu, and pour on clarified butter. EELS IN SEASON. Eels are in seasoa all the year, excepting the four warmer months. The silver eel of the Thames is reckoned the best. EELS, STEWED (I). Take 2 lbs. of fine silver eels (the best are those that are rather more than half-a-crown piece in circum- ference), quite fresh, full of life, and " brisk as an eel ;" wash them in several different waters, and divide them into pieces about four inches long. Some cooks dredge them with a little flour, wipe them dry, then egg and crumb them, fry them with dripping till they are brown, and lay them to dry on a hair sieve. Have ready a quart of good beef gravy: it must be cold when you put the eels into it. Set them on a slow fire to simmer very gently for about a quarter of an hour, according to the size of the eels; watch that they are not done too much, take them carefully out of the stewpan with a fish slice, so as not to tear their coats, and lay them on a dish about two inches deep. EELS, STEWED (2). Cut your eels into pieces, pepper and salt them, put them into a small stewpan, with some good stock, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, a bit of lemon- peel, and a glass of Madeira; stew them gently. When the eels are done enough, which will be in half an hour, or perhaps rather longer, take theu out, and the onion and lemon-peel; mix some flour with a little cream, and boil this in the sauce ; add more wine if there is not sufficient, and Cayenne ; squeeze in some lemon juice, and put in the ells. EFFERVESCING DRAUGHT. Sesqui- carbonate of soda, 30 grains ; water, 1-^ fluid oz.; syrup of orange-peel, 2 fluid drachms; tincture of calumba, ^ fluid drachm; tartaric acid, 25 grains. Add the acid last, and drink whilst the mixture is effervescing. It is tonic, allays sick- ness, removes the sensation of nausea, and cools the stomach when feverish. EGG BALLS WITH ONIONS, Make some balls of eggs, and boil them three minutes ; chop the whites a little, and fry them with some onion that has been partly boiled. When of a nice brown add a little pepper, salt, and hot water, or herb broth; let it boil about a minute, poqr it on toasted sippets, and lay the balls round it. EGG FLIP. Put a quart of ale in a tinned saucepan on the fire to boil. In the meantime beat up the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs, adding four table spoonsful of brown sugar and a little nutmeg; pour on the ale by degrees, beating it up so as to prevent the mixture from curdling ; then pour it backwards and forwards repeatedly from vessel to vessel, raising the hand to as great a height as possible, which process produces the smoothness and frothing essential to the good quality of the flip. This is excellent for a cold, and fi-om its fleecy appearance is sometimes designated ■' a yard of flannel." EGG FRITTERS. Pound a dozen hard- boiled eggs with a little cream and ^ lb. of beef marrow; then pound half a dozen macaroons, some bitter almonds, a little sugar, and lemon- peel ; mix these with the pounded eggs, and form into fritters ; dip them into a batter made with flour, butter, salt, and lemon-peel; fry them in very hot lard, sprinkle sugar over, and serve. EGG AND HAM OMELET (in Gravy). Mince or rasp cooked ham, season it with finely minced parsley, pepper, salt, and a little cream; whip the eggs, mix and dress as an omelet, and serve it with thickened gravj'. EGG AND HAM PATTIES. From the most solid part of a stale quartern loaf cut a slice of bread two inches in thickness, have in readiness a round tin cutter of two inches in diameter, and cut out four or five pieces ; then take a cutter two sizes smaller, and press it nearly tlu'ough the larger pieces; then with a knife remove the bread from the circle, have ready a large stewpan full of boiling lard, fry them of a Yijht brown colour, drain them dry with a clean cloth, and put them aside till wanted ; then take i lb. of lean ham, mince it small, add to it a gill of good brown sauce, stir it over the fire a few minutes, and add a small quantity of Cayenne pepper and lemon juice; fill the shapes with the mixture, and lay a poached egg upon each. EGG, LARGE. If this egg is to be plain whip the yolk, strain, fill the small mould, and boil it fourteen minutes ; throw the mould into cold water, and let it cool; whip the whites only to mix them, that tliey may strain; open the mould, put in a little of the white, and lay in the yolk ; shut it fast, put in the remainder of the white with a funnel, and peg it; put it into boiling water, and keep turning it con- stantly for five or six minutes, to prevent the yolk from falling to one side of the mould, which, from the liquid state of the white from beating, it is apt to do ; leave it till the mould can be handled, but do not let it cool in it as it may discolour it; put it into cold water, and serve over it a mushroom, oyster, clear juice, or piquant sauce. EGG MARMALADE. Clarify 1 lb. of sugar, keeping it rather thick. When cool add to it the yolks of twenty eggs, which should be per- fectly free frora the whites, and well stirred, but not beaten; set it on the ure, stirring continually until it boils, and then continue to