[ 88 ] BED BEE Y oz<?., and the produce, when dry, to be 1200^ cwt. an acre. BEDTICKS should be of strong fabric, for they ought to endure throughout the owner's lifetime. Let the necessary stitching be done on the wrong side of the ticking with double whity-brown thread, well waxed; then lay the tick, whether for a pillow, bolster, or bed, flat on a table, and rub the inside thoroughly with white soap. Some pei'sons use warmed beeswax, but soap is preferable, for it as effectually keeps in the feathers and dust, and facilitates the washing of the tick if needed. BEDTIME. Although it would be difficult, in the present irregular state of society, to lay down rules for the proper time of resorting to that place which suspends and makes us forget our daily troubles and cares; yet, when we consider the subject with regard to its influence as well on the health as the moral character of man, it is deserving of the most serious dis- cussion. Much, indeed, depends on the arrange- ment of the day and the different pursuits of the individual. Those persons who spend the greater part of their time in useful labour, and have sufficient muscular exercise, would better consult their health by retiring to repose at least two or three hours before midnight; which, according to the oldest and most accurate ob- servers, are nearly as refreshing as double that portion in the morning. Those, however, who lead an idle and luxurious life are too much the slaves of fashion, habit, and caprice, to adopt any useful changes which might abridge their amusements or imaginary comforts. On the other hand, the studious, and especially specu- lative persons, cannot comply with what are generally called " regular hours;" because their pursuits are better adapted to the solemn stillness of night, while they indulge in re- flections which require a connected series of thought and reasoning, uninterrupted by the noise of day. Yet, even literati and artists ought to pay due attention to this important circumstance, that the atmosphere of the night is always more vitiated, and, consequently, less fit for respiration than that of a serene day; and as we respire a greater portion of air while awake than in a sleeping state, it follows that' the system must be more injured in the former than in the latter case. Nor would it be -proper to retire to rest immediately after a full meal, or in an agitated state of mind. Hence, two hours after a light supper ought to elapse in order to prepare our- selves for an invigorating repose, and banish all gloomy or depressing ideas and thoughts which require mental exertion. For the same reason we should remove from our sight eveiy object which may irritate the nerves, and never adopt that pernicious practice of reading till we fall asleep—an imprudence of which many young and thoughtless persons are guilty. Instead of such a dangerous expedient, it would be more salutary to walk up and down the room for a few minutes, or to take any other gentle exercise. Lastly, we are of opinion that those indivi- duals who breakfast at nine, dine at two, and drink tea at six; or, instead of this, eat a light supper between seven and eight o'clock, might with the greatest benefit to their health retire to bed at ten, and rise at five or six o'clock in the morning, or earlier, according to the degree of exercise they have taken on the preceding day. BED-WARMING is best performed by a warming-pan made for the purpose of hold- ing boiling water instead of red-hot cinders or charcoal. There is thus no unpleasant, un- wholesome smell left in the bed; there is no danger of scorching the sheets ; and the pan may be placed in the bed and left for two or three hours, so that no servant need sit up for the purpose. BEE, STING OF. A plantain leaf bruised and applied to the place gives immediate relief; so does eau de Luce and spirit of hartshorn. If the stings are numerous add a little laudanum to the application, and give the patient a gentle aperient. A sting near the eye is very painful, but the symptoms are confined to that pai't; but a sting at the back of the ear often affects the whole system, and causes sickness, giddmess, numbness, and tremour. The above applica- tions, with half an ounce of camphor jalap, and quietude, soon remove these symptoms. The same observations apply to the sting of a wasp, or hornet. See Adder. BEECH. We have only to enumerate some of the uses of the produce of this tree. Its leaves have been employed for stuffing mat- tresses, and are very durable. Beech-wood is objectionable as being very liable to be worm- eaten. The mast or nuts of the beech are useful as pigs' food, a,nd when roasted are occasionally sei-ved as part of the dessert. The oil pressed from this mast equals in flavour the best olive oil, and does not become rancid so soon. In Germany it is used in cookery. The cake remaining after the oil has been expressed is excellent food for oxen, pigs, and poultry. It is also convertible into starch. BEECH-WOOD: To Stain like Mahogany. Apply aquafortis over the entire polished sur- face, and when quite dry varnish it with the following:—Dragon's blood, 2 ozs.; aloes, 1 oz.; dissolved in rectified spirit of wine, 1 quart, and strained through fine muslin. Apply this varnish with a brush.