FIR FIR [ 490 ] pass the polcer into the bottom of the fire to allow some of the ashes to escape. Then with the tongs place a very few pieces of coal at the top, towards the front, avoiding to rest any flat sides of these pieces against the tipper bar, as they would impede the air, and cause the grate—any grate—to smohe. Angles only may touch the bar, because they rather increase than check a circulation of air, by forming interstices through which it will rush, keeping the front of the fire bright, and carrying up by its rarefaction all dust and smoke. We never throw on coals, but with a shovel proceed to sprinkle a little small coal over the whole of the top, the front pieces forming a barrier against its otherwise inevitable descent through the bars; then we throw up all that is beneath the grate, including the smallest ashes, and finally add another quantity of small coal over the whole. FIRE BALLS. {See Coal Balls.) Other kinds of these balls are made solely of the earth from which fire bricks are made. When the fire has well ignited, and is burning clearly, three or more of these balls are put upon the lack of the fire. They sink down into its body, become red-hot, and require very little fuel afterwards to keep them at a glowing red heat. FIRE BLOWER. Common bellows, appa- rently in imitation of the lungs, appear to have been known to the Greeks at a very early period. However uncertain the exact period of their introduction, there is no doubt their origin is of great antiquity. The first contrivance for increasing the quickness of the combustion of fuel was, in all probability, a hollow straw or reed, and very likely a strong leaf or vegetable blade was also frequently used for the same purpose, in the same manner as the housewife of the present day uses the board of a book or B small tray to create an artificial current. Virgil, in his " Georgics," mentions that cows' leather was only fit for making bellows ; and Strabo tells us that Anacharsis, the celebrated traveller, whose writings are so familiar to the classical scholar, invented the bellows : accord- ing to Beckman the probability is that he became acquainted with them during his travels. The first improvement in bellows, when required on a large scale, was making them entirely of wood, but in the common household bellows little or none has been made for a very long period indeed, the only exception worthy to be mentioned being the rotatory-fanner bellows of Mr. Clarke. The action, however, of all such contrivances, by which air is impelled towards the burning mass in a stream or column more or less enlarged in diameter, must necessarily be exceedingly partial in its operation ; and from the nature of these it is impossible to enlarge the area of the column of air sent out, as by a large aperture the velocity and force of the stream are much diminished, unless, indeed, more power is obtained, which, incurring as it would do increased bulk, is totally incompatible with the nature of a " handy domestic article." There are certain unvarying laws of nature regulating the currents of the atmosphere, by which the combustion of fuel may be much increased. Foreign to the nature of these articles, we will refrain from entering into the explana- tion of the rationale of these laws, and content ourselves with explaining a simple contrivance by which these may be made available:—Get a large sheet of thin plate iron, or several sheets of tin joined together so as to make a square, two inches less than the front of the "register grate " to which it is to be applied, and reaching down to within one inch of the lowest bar; solder or fasten an angular strip so as to project all round. The edge of the upper strip must be chamfered or hammered in about one-eighth of an inch; this will catch hold of the slit running along the top of the grate ; a handle should be fastened to the front. By hanging this before the grate the front is completely closed in, and the air forced with great velocity through the under bars of the grate, through and between every part of the coals and burning portions; and thus equable in its action, and of considerable force, the flame will, in a short time after the blower is put on, be heard roaring like a furnace. In cases where the chimney smokes from deficient draught this may be in use while the nuisance continues. FIREPLACE. The construction of grates is of some consequence to the warmth and comfort of rooms. These are of every shape, size, and pattern, and must depend greatly upon the taste and purse of the purchaser; but it is advisable to regard the good qualities of a grate rather than its form or finish. Some grates give very much more heat than others, and these are not always such as attract the eye; but this point should be most considered. It is generally admitted that grates give more heat when seated low than they do when placed high in the chimney. We confess we are not of this opinion. We do not mean that grates should be fixed extremely high, but we have always felt more comfortable warmth from those of the old-fashioned height and shape than we have ever done from the new. Scientific chemical reasons are given in favour of low grates, but moderately high grates give us the greatest degree of warmth, and it is possible that others may have experienced this also. Sarcophagus grates, that stand on low feet upon the hearth, are the most miserable of all contrivances in our opinion, although we have