CHE CHE [ 2C9 ] been spoiled by such whimsical practices ; and we are assured, as well by the dairyman and cheesemonger, as the first cooks, that the finest Stilton is that which ripens without any arti- ficial aid. North Wdtsliire cheeses have long acquired de- served celfclirity, being rich and of fine flavour. These are fit for the table at nine months old; but, if carefully kept, they are in perfection p.t twelve months. Double Gloucester is also a cheese in great repute, and if made at a good dairy is in prime order from nine to twelve months. This makes an excellent Welsh rarebit, and is capital for a stew if carefully kept in a cheese-toaster. Single Gloucester, which, when successfully made, is of a fine delicate flavour, is generally used at the taverns for a Welsh rarebit. It is fit for table in five or six months. Derby cheese, however, when from the best dairies, being of a delicate flavour and agreeable texture, is pre- ferred to all others by the cognoscenti for toasting. A Welsh rarebit, capitally cooked, of Derbyshire cheese is served with eclat at the best appointed tables. Cheddar cheese is also in high esteem et the best tables. It is in its prime from nine to twelve months. Dunlop cheese, made in the parish of Dunlop, in Ayrshire, is in high esteem at the first Scot- tish tables, and is considered a handsome present to an English family ; and due honours are paid to the Ayrshire dairies as often as it is set upon the English board. Of crea^n cheeses there are various sorts, for which the English dairies are famed. Amongst others the Cottenham, when in its prime, is of delicious flavour. The Bath cream cheese is also delectable, and others which are eaten equally new, particularly those from a certain town in Bedfordshire, the name of which we do not recollect. These, and many more of excel- lent quality, are thin in form. The Stilton is also a cream cheese, though among the thickest that come from an English dairy. Of foreign cheese the Parmesan, which, being first made at Parma, in Italy, hence derives its name, still maintains pre-eminence over all others. The manufacture of this cheese was formerly con- fined to the dairies of Parma and Piacenza, and where, for a long period, the best was made. Of late, however, the district of Lodi is most celebrated for this cheese. The Gruyere, from Switzerland and Rochefort, made of ewes' milk, and the Neufchdtel, from France, are cheeses served as delicacies upon an English table; but the true English Cheshire is held superior to all these, even by the learned gastronomists of Paris. " In having the care of the cheese for the parlour, or for the family in general," says an anonymous writer, "let a broad hanging shelf be hung, either in the wine or strong beer cellar, as neither rats nor mice can get at the cheese." If you keep cream cheeses put them between two plates or dishes to ripen, with some fresh leaves from the garden, and turn them every morning; and for all other cheeses have a rack or two made in the cellar, for it will be a means of improving them daily. A large space in the rack should be left for Cheshire, brickbat, dolphin cheeses, &c.; and nothing more improves them, or makes them go farther than putting three or four on each pipe or cask of wine, and brushing and turning them every week; but if there are no casks of wine put them on the tops of the strong beer casks. Cheese even of an inferior quality', if thus managed, will become much richer, fine, and mellow. It must be turned alternately. The cheese should not be brought from the rack to the parlour but at the moment it is wanted, and should be returned to the rack as soon as taken from the table. Be careful to use those that are ripe and mellow first. Cheeses of all sorts ai-e known to be the best which have smooth, thin coats, and those chosen which are the heaviest; for although they may be of the same size, yet they differ materially at that point, as all fat, good cheese is the heaviest. The round Dutch cheese, of the best quality, and not too salt (which is a common failing with them) is not unfrequently used for toasting, and with success. This, and other cheeses made of skim milk, are considered best for that purpose, and eat richer and more agreeably to the palate than even the best North Wiltshire, indubitably one of the richest of English cheeses. The fatty richness of this material constitutes not the desired properties for toasting, as the inferior cheeses are, when toasted, found to be richer, softer in consistence, less ropy, and superior in flavour than even Stilton. Cheeses that become tainted with mites are recommended by a Derby- shire lady well acquainted with the operations of tbe dairy to be wiped, and put into a pot in which mutton has been cooked, whilst the water is yet hot, and made to boil a few seconds; then to be taken out, immediately wiped, dried, and put away in a dry place. CHEESE, BRAISED. Put some wine, either white or red, into a chafing-dish, mix it with a little mustai'd and Cayenne, set it over a lamp or a hot table, and slice in some very rich cheese, or if the cheese is not very rich put in a little butter; stir it as it melts to incorporate it. Have ready nice soft fried toast in a hot- water plate, and spread the cheese upon it, or dress it at table. CHEESE, BRICKBAT. Take 2 gallons of new milk. I quart of good cream, and 2