C 71 ] BAR BAR able" downwards. In other cases they are of no use; for, as its riung in any part forebodes a tendency to fair, and its falling to foul weather, it follows that, though it descends in the tube from settled to fair, it may nevertheless be at- tended with a little rain; and when it rises from the words " much rain " to " rain," it shows only an inclination to become fair, though the wet weather may still continue in a less con- siderable degree than it was when the mercury began to rise; but if the mercury, after having fallen to "much rain," should ascend to "change- able," it foretells fair weather, though of a shorter continuance than if the mercury had risen still higher; and so, on the contrary, if the mercury stood at "fair" and descends to "changeable," it announces foul weather, though not of so long continuance as if it had fallen lower. 9. Persons who have occasion to travel much in the winter, and who are doubtful whether it will rain or not, may easily ascertain this point by the following observation. A few hours before he departs let the traveller notice the merciuy in the upper part of the tube of the barometer: if rain is about to fall, it will be indented or concave; if otherwise,, convex or protuberant. The following remarks by a late eminent agriculturist (Mr. Mills) may serve more fully to elucidate the nature and uses of the baro- meter to all who are engaged in agricultural pursuits. He observes that when the character of the season is once ascertained, the returns of rain or fair weather may be judged of with some degree of certainty in some years, but scarcely guessed at in others, by means of the barometer; for in general we may expect that when the mercury rises high a few days of fair weather will follow. If the mercury falls again in two or three days, but soon rises high, with- out much rain, we may expect fair weather for several days; and in this case, the clearest days are after the mercury begins to fall. In like manner, if the mercury falls very low, with much rain ; rises soon, but falls again in a day or two, with rain; a continuance of bad weather may be feared. If the second fall does not bring much rain, but the mercury rises gradually pretty high, it prognosticates settled, good wea- ther of some continuance. When a heavy rain has fallen upon the mercury's sinking, and its continuing steadily low, the weather is some- times fair, and promises well; but no prudent farmer should trust to such appearances. There is, indeed, a caution of this kind which the poorest may profit by. When the mercury rises high in the barometer the moisture on the surface of the earth disappears. This, even though the sky be overcast, is a sure sign of fair weather; but if the earth continues moist, and water stands in shallow places, no trust should be put in the clearest sky, for it is in this case deceitful. Towards the end of March, or more gene- rally in the beginning of April, the barometer sinks very low, with bad weather; after which it seldom falls lower than 29째 5' till the latter end of September or October, when the quick- silver falls again low, with stormy winds, for then the winter constitution of the air takes place. From October to April the great falls of the barometer are from 29째 5' to 28째 5', and sometimes lower; whereas during the summer constitution of the air the quicksilver seldom falls lower than 29째 5'. It therefore follows that a fall of one-tenth of an inch during the summer is as sure an indication of rain as a fall of between two and three-tenths is in the winter. It must, however, be observed that these heights of the barometer hold good only in places nearly on a level with the sea; for experiments have taught us that for every 80 feet of nearly perpendicular height that the barometer is placed above the level of the sea, the quicksilver sinks one-tenth of an inch. Observations alone, therefore, must determine the heights of the quicksilver, which in each place denote either fair or foul weather. Very heavy thunderstorms happen without sensibly affecting the barometer, and in this case the storm seldom reaches far. When a thunderstorm is attended with a fall of the baro- meter its effect is much more extensive. When the quicksilver falls very low, and the weather continues mild and the wind moderate, there is at the same time a violent storm in some distant place. This accounts for a false prognostic with which the barometer has often been unjustly charged. The effects which heat, cold, and wind, severally produce on the glass, inde- pendently of the dry or humid state of the atmosphere, should likewise be considered. BARREL. A barrel is 36 gallons, and other casks are multiples or parts of 36. Thus a hogshead is 1^ barrel, a puncheon 2 barrels, a butt 3 barrels, a firkin a quarter of a barrel, and a kilderkin half a barrel. When casks have any ill smell, hot lime and water, or char- coal and water, often cures them ; but brewers usually take out the head and place them over a fire, so as to char the inside, and then soak them in boiling liquor. BARS, BRIGHT, require daily attention, and as this attention involves but little labour, it is no great hardship ; but if neglect allows rust once to appear upon the bars, it is a toil- some undertaking to remove that rust. Bright bars are now usually made removeable, which facilitates the cleaning process. They, as well