[ ] BRU BRO mash., put til em into a boiling vessel that will hold 4 gallons of water; hang it over the fire for an hour and a half; then take it off and let it settle; then take a lesser kettle, and strain the clear puree into it through a sieve. Put into it a bunch of carrots, half a bunch of pars- nips, a bunch of parsley roots, 6 onions, a bunch of pot herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and season it with salt. Boil all these together; then add a bunch of chervil, another of sorrel, and 2 spoonsful of the juice of onions. This broth is of use to simmer all sorts of soups made of vegetables. BROTH FOR THE SICK. Have Hlb. of a neck or loin of mutton ; take off the skin and the fat, and put it into a saucepan; cover it with cold'water (it will take about 1 quart to 1 lb. of meat), let it simmer very gently, and skim it well. Cover it up, and set it over a moderate fire, where it may stand gently stew- ing for about an hour, then strain it off. It should be allowed to become cold, when all the greasy particles will float on the surface, and, becoming hard, can be easily taken off, and the settlings will remain at the bottom. BROTH, WHITE. Boil a fowl, and when it is done enough take it up, and put it into a dish; then boil your cream with a blade of mace, and thicken it with eggs; put in the marrow of one beef bone, and take some of the broth and mingle them together; put to it a spoonful of white wine, and let it thicken on the fire. Take the hot fowl out of the broth, set it on a chafing-dish of coals, and serve it. BROWN. See Dyeing. BROWN COLOURING (forMabe-dishes). Take 4 ozs. of sugar and beat it fine ; put it into an iron frying-pan or earthen pipkin; set it over a clear fire, and when the sugar is melted it will be frothy; put it higher from the fire until it is a fine brown ; keep it stirring all the time ; fill the pan up with red wine ; take cai'e that it does not boil over; add a little salt and lemon; put a little cloves and mace, a shallot or two ; boil it gently for ten minutes ; pour it in a basin till it is cold, then bottle it for use. BROWN ROUX (for Thickening). Put into a nicely-tinned saucepan about 1 lb. of fresh butter; melt it slowly and dredge in flour till it becomes a paste, carefully stirring it all the time. Put it for a few minutes upon a quick fire, and then return it to where there is less heat, and stir it till it assumes a light brown colour, when it may be put into a jar These thickenings keep for some time. BROWNING. It is a convenient article to colour those soups or sauces of which it is sup- posed their deep brown complexion denotes the strength and savouriness of the composition. Burnt sugar is also a favourite ingredient witli the brewers, who use it under the name of essentia Lena to colour their beer; it is also employed by the brandy-makers in considerable quantity to colour brandy; to which, besides enriching its complexion, it gives that essential taste and fulness in the mouth which custom has taught brandy-drinkers to admire and prefer to the finest Cognac in its genuine state. When em- ployed for culinary purposes this is sometimes made with strong gravy or walnut catsup. Those who like a gout of acid may add a little walnut pickle. Put 1 lb. of pounded lump sugar and 1 table-spoonful of water into a clean iron saucepan ; set it over a slow fire, and keep stirring it with a wooden spoon till it becomes a bright brown colour, and begins to smoke; then add to it 1 oz. of salt, and dilute it by degrees with water till it is the thickness of soy; let it boil; take off the scum, and strain the liquor into bottles, which must be well stopped. If you have not any of this by you, and you wish to darken the colour of your sauces, pound a tea-spoonful of lump sugar, and put it into an iron spoon with as much water as will dissolve it; hold it over a quick fire till it be- comes of a very dark brown colour. Mix it with the soup, &c., while it is hot. BRUNSWICK BLACK is a black varnish used for giving a powerful polish to grates and other iron articles. It is formed by melting together -1- lb. of common asphaltum, 1 pint of linseed oil, and ^ pint of spirit of turpentine. Apply it hot with a brush. BRUNSWICK MUM. Take 83 gallons of clear water that has been previously boiled to the reduction of the third part; then brew it with 7 bushels of wheaten malt, and 1 bushel each of oatmeal and ground beans. When tunned the hogshead must not be full, and on it begin- ning to work put in 3 lbs. of fir and birch tops, three handsful of carduum benedictus, a hand- ful or two of rose leaves, and a handful and a half each of burnet, betony, avens, marjoram, pennyro)-al, and mother-of-thyme, two or moie liandsful of elder flowers, 3 ozs. of bruised car- damoms, and I oz. of bruised barberries. The herbs and seeds are not to be put into the cask till the liquor has worked for some time, after which it should be suffered to flow over as little as possible. Lastly, fill it up on its ceasing to ferment, and when done put in 10 new-laid eggs, unbroken or cracked, stop it up close, and at the end of two years it will be fit for use. To make mum like ale, barley malt is substi- tuted for wheat. BRUNSWICK TART (1). Pare and core with a scoop 8 or 10 golden pippins ; put them into a stewpan with 1 gill of sweet wine and 4 ozs. of sifted loaf sugar, a bit of lemon-peel, a little cinnamon and mace. Stew them over a