r 567 J GOO GOO carrots, four onions (one stuck with three cloves), a parsnip, a bouquet garni,'Salt, pepper, and spices; let the whole stand over a small fire three or four hours, then take out the goose, skim the liquor, strain, and reduce it, so that when cold it may be quite a jelly, which clarify with the white of an egg, and dish the goose with this jelly over and round it. GOOSE GRASS. See Cleavees. GOOSE, GRAVY OF. Lay in a large saucepan some slices of onion, two slices of bacon, three or four beefsteaks, a goose, and a duck, cut up ; pour over these two quarts of boiling water, and close the saucepan as tightly as possible. Let it stand over a gentle fire for four or five hours, then open it, and put those pieces to the bottom which had previously lain at the top ; add a little pepper and salt, close the vessel again, and set it on hot ashes for an hour. At the end of that time have ready some stone jars, in which place the pieces of goose ; pour over a part of the liquor from them through a sieve, and, as the meat imbibes it, in about two hours pour in the remainder. If you wish this gravy to keep for two or three months cover the pieces of goose with their own dripping an inch in thickness. GOOSE GREASE is the fat of the goose melted and mixed with any fragrant oil that is preferred. It is an excellent application to chapped hands. Leather gloves should be put on after the application. GOOSE, GREEN, PIE. Bone two young green geese of a good size, carefully prepared and nicely singed ; wash them clean, and season them highly with salt, pepper, mace, and all- spice ; put on^inside the other, pressing them as closely together as possible, drawing the legs inwards; put plenty of butter over them, and bake them either with or without crust as you please : if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit closely to keep in the steam. GOOSE, GREEN, ROASTED. After a green goose has been well trussed and singed put into the inside a good bit of butter mixed with pepper and salt; put it to roast, and baste it frequently with butter. When done shake over it some flour and salt; then take out the skewers, lay it on the dish with good gravy under it, and green sauce in a boat. It will take three quarters of an hour to roast. GOOSE, LEGS OF (en Puree). Take half a dozen good plump goose legs, and having boned them season them with salt and coarse pepper, and supply the places of the bones with bacon cut small; then close the meat over and tie them, taking care to shape them well. Put them into a stewpan lined with sliced bacon, and cover them witli the same; put into the pan also three carrots, four onions, two bay leaves. two cloves, a little thyme, and a ladleful of broth. Let the whole simmer for two hours, then take them out, drain, take off the thread, dish them, and serve with a puree of lentils, green peas, onions, &c. GOOSE, LEGS OF (A. la Remot.ads). Take the legs of a goose either roasted or a la dauhe, soak them in their own dripping, bread and baste them lightly with oil, broil them to a nice colour, and serve them diy with the follow- ing sauce in a boat:—Gapers, anchovies, parsley, scallions, garlic (all chopped very small), mustard, pepper, salt, vinegar, and oil. GOOSE, LEGS OF (au Verd Pre). Put as many legs of geese as will fill a dish into a saucepan, with a little lard and some sipall onions; cover the saucepan quite close, and set it on the fire. When nearly done take out the legs, and broil them a few minutes to colour and dry them a little. In the meanwhile fry a handful of parsley (lieep it as green as possible), lay it over a dish, and serve the legs on it. GOOSEALALYONNAISE. Take three or four hind quarters of geese, and fry them lightly in their own fat; cut half a dozen large onions into rings, take a part of the fat in which you have fried the goose, and fry the onions ; drain both them and the legs, dish them with the onions laid on them, and serve with a good poivrade, or any other sauce you please. GOOSE A LA MODE. Take a large stubble goose, and when it is picked bone and slit it down the back. Take a fowl, and do it in the same manner; take, also, a neat's tongue, boil, and blanch it. Season the fowl with pepper, salt, and beaten mace, and roll it round the tongue, but first put some beef marrow over the tongue; then put the fowl into the goose, and sew it up. Before the fowl is put into the goose roll some thin slices of ham or bacon round it; put the goose into a small pot with two quarts of beef gravy, and the bones of the goose and fowl. When it begins to boil let it stew very gently for an hour; then take up the goose, skim all the fat from the gravy, strain it, and put in a glass of red wine, two spoonsful of catsup, a veal sweatbread parboiled and cut into slices, truffles, morels, mushrooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, some yolks of eggs boiled hard, with a little pepper and sak; put in the goose, cover it closely, stew it half an hour longer, then take it up, put it in a dish, and serve the ragout over it. Take care to skim off all the fat. GOOSE PIE, COMMON. Make a raised crust, quarter the goose, well season it, lay it into the crust, and put on the top I lb. of butter cut into pieces; put on the lid, and bake it gently. GOOSE PIE, RICH. Bone a goose and 4