CAN [ 225 3 CAN melting tlie fat is by steam let in round the pan containing it. This is usually done by the great candle manufacturers, but inferior tradesmen employ the naked fire. In this case the flame should not come in contact with the bottom of the pan, but only play round the upper part of its sides. Those who apply the fire to the bottom of the vessel injure the tallow and produce only inferior candles. After the fat has melted, by a continued application of the heat, the membranous and fibrous matters gradually col- lect on the surface, and form what, in domestic establishments, is called cracklings, being the residuary substance obtained by melting fat, suet, or hog's lard, in a saucepan. These crack- lings from tallow, after being subject to powerful pressure to extract all the fat, form the hard cakes known by the name of greaves, used as food for dogs. When all the fat is expressed from the greaves the melted tallow is strained through a sieve into another vessel, where it is cleansed with boiling water, with which it is beaten and well stirred up. The mixture being then allowed to settle, the foul water subsides, and the purified tallow floats at the top. The tallow is now carefully baled out into small tubs, where it concretes and is ready for use. The wicks employed for candles, as well as lamps, are made of cotton, a substance which appears the best calculated for the purpose. It is rather singular that, notwithstanding the per- fection attained in our cotton manufactories, the best wicks should be those imported from Turkey^ These are cotton rovings formed into wicks by several skeins, according to the size desired, being wound off together into clews, and cut to the lengths required for the different kinds of candles. The mould candles are thus manufactured:— The moulds are hollow cylinders of pewter sur- mounted by a sort of hollow conical inverted cup, with a small hole at the apex. This cup is soldered to the tube. A dozen of these moulds, more or less, are fixed to a wooden frame with the apex of the cup downward, the other end terminating in a sort of trough common to all the moulds. Sometimes, however, in small manufactories, the ends of the moulds are left independent of each other, and without a trough. The wicks are first placed in the moulds ; this is effected in the following manner :—The wick being first fastened to the lower part of the frame, a hooked wire is introduced into the mould at the bottom, made to go through it, and to pass out at the little hole in the apex of the cup. The looped end of the wick is then placed upon the hook of the wire, which is drawn back, carrying the Vv'ick with it. On this ap- pearing at the end of the mould the hook is removed, and a short wire passed through tlie loop, and across the diameter of the mould, to keep the wick stretched, and to make it retain its place in the exact centre of the internal cir- cumference of the mould. This being done the melted tallow, at a proper temperature, is run into a cistern furnished with a stopcock. This being turned the tallow is let from the cistern either into the trough common to the moulds attached to the frame, or, if there be no trough, into each mould separately. When these are about half full the stopcock is turned, and the supply of tallow ceases for a time, until the workman has been enabled to pull the wick quite tight in each mould, as well to secure it from curling, as to stretch it again if already curled. This being done the stopcock is opened once more, and tallow admitted into the moulds until they are quite filled. The frame is now laid aside to cool. The loose tallow on the frame and edges of the mould is then scraped off with a small wooden instrument, a tool like a bodkin being passed through the loop, the other end of the wick is cut, and the candle is drawn out of the mould. The dip candles are formed more easily. The wicks are first dipped into melted tallow, rubbed with the hands, and then allowed to harden. The wicks thus stiffened are suspended verti- cally by means of their loops in rows upon wooden frames attached to a cross-beam or lever which can be raised or depressed, by depressing or raising the other extremity, the axis resting ill a mortise cut in an upright and fastened with a peg that enables it to command a semicircular motion. The action of the apparatus resembles that of a see-saw used by children. By depress- ing the frame the stiffened wicks are dipped into a cistern of melted tallow, an operation repeated each time the tallow hardens until the dipped candles have acquired a certain weight, which is indicated by the machine itself. When sufficiently dry they are removed by running the loops off a stick that fastens them to the frame ; they are then ready for inspection and sale. Mould candles recently made are neither so good in quality, nor so white, as those which have been kept some time—a circumstance which accounts for the superiority of candles made by manufacturers with extensive premises and large capital. Keeping bleaches the tallow; but artificial bleaching is practised by those chandlers who require a prompt sale, and is effected by exposing the candles to the night air and dew. Candles, however, to be very good should not be used till they are from thrco to six months old—a circumstance which shows the advantage of laying in a stock for domestic consumption. The stearine or composite candles, in which we include cocoa-nut and others, like those of was, le- <i