cus [ 395 ] into quarters, and dip them in batter made of half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pint of milk, four eggs, and a little grated ginger; fry them in good lard or dripping, and when done strew grated sugar over them. CUSTARD, PARISIAN. Cut fifty sound apples into quarters (pared and cored), and put them into a saucepan, with ^ lb. of butter, J lb. of powder sugar, and a pot of apricot marmalade; put them over a moderate fire with coals on the saucepan lid, and let them remain a few minutes, that they may soften, but not break. Have ready a preparation of rice boiled with ^ lb. of butter, the same of sugar, on which have been grated the peels of four lemons, a pinch of salt, eight or nine glasses of milk, and thickened with the yolks of ten eggs. Make a raised crust like the Portuguese Custard, in which pour the fourth part of the rice (cold); on that lay forty-eight quarters of apples; over them pour the same quantity of rice, then the apples, rice, &c., re- serving the finest quarters for the top ; bake in a brisk oven for between two and three hours. When done mask the top with apple jelly or api'icot or currant marm.alade, and the crust with apricot marmalade also. CUSTARD, PLAIN. Take a quart of cream or new milk, a stick of cinnamon, four bay leaves, and some mace; boil them all together; then well beat up twelve eggs, sweeten them, and put them into a pan ; bake or boil them, stirring them all one way till they are of a proper thick- ness ; boil your spice and leaves first, and when the milk is cold mix in your eggs and boil it. You may leave out the spice, and only use the bay leaves, or, in the room of them, four or five bitter almonds. CUSTARD, PORTUGUESE. Choose about a hundred fine apples, from which select three dozen of the best; scoop out the core as you trim them, and put them into a saucepan with just water enough to cover them, adding the juice of two lemons and two spoonsful of powder sugar. When scalded put them into another saucepan, with | lb. of powder sugar, the peel of two lemons, and a sufficient quantity of water to boil them. In the meantime cut the rest of the apples into quarters, and make them into a marmalade, to which add a pot of apricot mar- malade and J lb. of fresh butter; pass this through a sieve. The whole apples must be taken from the fire while they are yet firm. Make a raised crust about nine inches in dianieter, and five or six in height, in which put a fourth part of the marmalade; lay a dozen of the whole apples on that, having filled each apple with apricot marmalade ; cover them with the mar- malade, and so again with the remaining fruit and marmalade ; tie a thick paper round the crust, and put it into a brisk oven. In an hour s time cover the top, and then let it remain two hours longer. When done mask the crust with a very transparent apricot marmalade, and the top with a clear apple jelly. This custard may be gar- nished in various ways according to taste. CUSTARD IN PRESERVED ORANGES. Fill from tlireo to five oranges with custard, and garnish with a little sweetmeat, either wet or dry. This makes a veiy pretty dish CUSTARD PUDDING (I). Mix a pint of cream with six eggs well beatsn, two spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg graied, and salt and sugar to taste; butter a cloth, and pour in your batter; tie it up, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for .an hour and a half. Serve with melted butter for sauce. CUSTARD PUDDING (2). P.oil a pint of thick cream with a bit of cinnamon in it, and put to it J lb. of sugar. When it is cold put to it the yolks of five eggs well beaten, and stir it over the fire till it is pretty thick, but take care not to let it boil. When it is quite cold butter a cloth well, dust it with flour, tie the custard up in it very closely, and boil it three quarters of au hour. When you take it up put it into a basin to cool a little, untie the cloth, lay the dish on the basin, and turn it up. You will break the pudding if you do not take the cloth off carefully. Grate over it a little sugar, put melted butter and a little wine in a boat, and send it to table. CUSTARD SOUFFLfiS. Put 2 ozs. of rice flour and 2 ozs. of butter into a sauce- pan ; mix them together well, and add | lb. of powder sugar and two glasses of cream, in which a small quantity of vanilla has been in- fused. Put this mixture over a moderate fire, and boil it like a cream padssiere; then put to it the yolks of four eggs, two spoonsful of whipped cream, and the four whites beaten firmly. Make the paste for the moulds the same as Petits Pates a la Bechamel, and when half baked pour in your ^preparation and finish them. When done they should not stand a minute before they are sent to table. These custard souffles may be made with any fruit, and flavoured with any ingredient you may think proper to use. CUSTARD, SWISS. Put nine glasses of milk and ^ lb. of fresh butter into a saucepan, and wlien it begins to boil take it from the fire, and add to it from 18 to 20 ozs. of sifted flour; stir it with a wooden spoon till it becomes a smooth paste, when it must be dried a little over the fire, In about five minutes put it into another vessel, and mix with it 6 ozs. of butter and 1 lb. of Gruyere cheese grated; add after- wards a spoonful of mignonette, two of powder sugar, and four eggs ; mix them well together, a7id then put iu four more eggs, and six yolks,