ORE CUE [ 375 ] wai'in, and will be found delicious. The custard may be coloured green by boiling pistachio nuts in the milk with the flavouring. CREAM OF 'TARTAR is now called by chemists hitartrate of potash, being a compound of tartaric acid and potash. It is a concrete saline matter, which separates from wines after they have undergone complete fermentation. It adheres to the top and sides of the casks in red or whitish grey crystals, according to the colour of the liquor. In this state it is called crude tartar, having a sub-acid taste, and being with difficulty soluble in water. By repeated solution, filtration, and crystallisa- tion, crude tartar may be purified, when it is called crystals of tartar, and, if these be reduced to powder, cream of tartar. This salt is a mild, cooling, and aperient medicine. If half or a whole ounce of it be taken in substance with treacle or any other vehicle it proves an effectual purgative. Farther, when dissolved in water it aff'ords, with the addition of sugar, an agreeable acidulated drink, which is of great service in ardent fevers, and likewise forms a pleasant beverage during the summer. CREAM TOAST. Take 1 lb. of French rolls, slice them, crumb and crust, as thick as your finger, and lay thera in a silver dish ; put to them 1 pint of cream and ^ pint of milk; then strew sugar and beaten cinnamon over them; turn them often till they are soaked tender, though not so tender but you may turn them without breaking; then take them from the cream with a slice or skimmer, break three or four raw eggs, turn the slices of bread on the eggs, and fry them in clarified butter till they are of a good brown colour, taking great care not to burn or black them ; scrape a little sugar round them, drain them well from the butter in which they were fried, and serve them hot for a second course. CREAM, VANILLA. Boil a vanilla bean in \ pint of I'ich milk till the milk is highly flavoured with the vanilla ; then, having taken out the bean, strain the milk into a pint of thick cream; beat the yolks of five eggs till very light, and then mix gradually with the beaten egg J lb. of powdered loaf sugar, beating it very hard; set the cream over hot coals, and add to it by degrees the egg and sugar; stir it con- tinually till it is on the point of coming to a boil. It must be very thick and smooth. Cover the bottom and sides of a glass bowl or dish with J lb. of lady cake cut into nice even slices ; pour on the mixture, and then set the bowl on ice or snow till wanted. For lady cake you may substitute finger biscuit or slices of almond sponge cake. You may ornament the bowl by beating to a stiff froth the whites of two or three eggs, and heaping it on the top. CREAM, VELVET. Take ^oz. of isinglass dissolved in a cup and a half of white wine, the juice and rind of a lemon, and | lb. of sugar; simmer together, strain it, and set it to cool; add IJ pint of rich cream, stirred well until quite cool; put it into moulds, and set it on ice tiill served. CREAM, WHIPPED (1). Take a pint of thick cream, put it into a basin or stewpan, and beat it up with a whisk to a strong froth; then mix in a little powder sugar and orange-flower water. Serve it in a small basket made with paste, and garnish round with sweet rusks. If your cream should not soon froth, as sometimes it will not, be careful that you do not beat it to butter. CREAM, WHIPPED (2). Put some good cream, with a proportionate quantity of powder sugar, a pinch of gum dragon, and a little orange-flower water, into a pan; whip it to a froth with an osier whisk. As the froth rises let it stand an instant, then take it off gently with a skim,mer, and place it on the dish like a pyramid ; garnish your dish with green lemon or orange chips, and serve it. CREAM, WHIPPED (au Caramel). Boil 6 ozs. of sugar to caramel, and when it has acquired the proper reddish yellow tinge dissolve it in half a glass of boiling water over hot ashes, after which it must be reduced to a rather thick syrup. When cold mix it with the whipped cream in the usual way. See Cream, Whipped. CREAM, WHIPPED (Printaniere). Dilute two spoonsful of essence of spinach at- tained by degrees with half a glass of Indian maraschino; pour this mixture and 6 ozs. of powder sugar to whipped cream as directed for Cream, Whipped. CREAM, WHIPPED (with Zests). Take 6 ozs. of lump sugar, and rasp on it the fourth part of the zest of a sweet, the same of a Seville orange, the same of a cedrat, and half the zest of a lemon ; scrape the sugar in the usual way, and then mix it with your whipped cream as already directed. See Cream, Whipped. CREOSOTE is the constituent of wood smoke and pyroligneous acid, which renders them so preservative of meat, and imparts to it that grateful flavour popularly known as "hammy." Creosote may be obtained in a separate form by distilling tar, and is then a volatile, colourless, very strongly smelling liquid. Mr. Cooley thus details its uses :— Creosote is recommended for internal use against several diseases of the channels of digestion and the organs of respiration, against rheumatism and gout, torpid nervous fever, spasms, diabetes, and tapeworm ; in the form of pills; with the juice of Spanish liquorice