[ r,3o ] COF COF i. Roast the second part until it assumes the fine brown colour of chestnuts, and has lost one- fifth of its weight. 5. Mix the two parts together, and grind them in a coffee mill. 6. Do not roast or make your coffee until the day it is wanted. 7. To 2 ozs. of ground coffee put 4 cups of cold water. Draw off this infusion, and put it aside. 8. Put the coffee which remains in the biggin, three cups of boiling water, then drain it off, and add this infusion to that which has been put aside. By this method you can obtain three cups more. When your coffee is wanted heat it quickly in a silver coffee-pot, taking care not to let it boil, that the perfume may not be lost by under- going any evaporation; then pour it into cups, whiclr each person may sweeten according to his taste. Particular care should be taken not to make coffee in a tin vessel. It should be made either in a china vessel, or one of delft ware, or in one of silver. For a long time the tin biggins invented by Monsieur de Belloy were made use of; but some person has since improved upon his plan by making them in silver or porcelain, which are found to be much better. COFFEE: To Roast. Coffee should never be roasted but at the precise time of its being used, and then it should be washed with the greatest care, and made of a gold colour rather than a brown one ; above all, take care not to burn it, for a very few grains burnt will be sufficient to communicate a bitter and rancid taste to several pounds of coffee. It is the best way to roast it in a roaster (over a charcoal fire) which turns with the hand, as by that means it is not forgotten, which often is the case when on the spit before the fire. COFFEE, ARTIFICIAL. There have been vaiious preparations of this sort. Hunt's break- fast powder and Dillenius's coffee are merely rye roasted with a little butter. Succory or German coffee is the root of the succory sliced and similarly roasted. Beet-root, beans, rice, acorns, beech mast, currant seeds, gooseberry seeds, holly seeds, fenugreek seeds {Rosetta coffee), chick peas [Egyptian coffee), and broom seeds have all been similarly used ; but the best substitute for genuine coffee is made by similarly roasting the seeds of the yellow iris (Gladiolus luteus). It is called iris coffee and Sylvester's coff'ee. COFFEE BLANC-MANGER. Roast 2 ozs. of the best coffee, grind it, and pour on it a glass of boiling water; let it stand covered closely, and when the coffee is precipitated pour off the infusion, and mix it with 0 ozs. of sugar and i oz. of clarified isinglass. Pound and extract your milk of almonds as directed in Cedrat Br.ANC-MANGER. Divide the liquid, and fill your mould as therein explained. COFFEE BONBONS. Take about a pint of coffee made with water, put in it 1 lb. of loaf sugar, set it on the fire, and boil it to a high degree; then add a full pint of double cream, and let it boil again, keeping continually stirring till it comes to a caramel height. To know when it has come to that point you must have a basin of water by you; dip your finger in it, and put it quickly in your sugar, which will have stuck to it; take a bit of it in your teeth. If it is hard in its cracking take it off—it is sufficiently done. Pour it upon a tin plate, which must be rubbed before with a little butter, or it will stick to the plate; then spread it with a rolling-pin (observe, the rolling-pin should also be rubbed with butter for fear it should stick), and when it is warm you may cut it into squares, lozenges, or any other shaped pastils, and draw a few strokes over them with a knife. COFFEE CHEESE. Having roasted J lb of coffee put it into 2 glasses of boiling milk, cover the infusion, and when about lukewarm pass it through a napkin; then mix it with ^ lb. of powder sugar and 6 drachms of isinglass, and when they are perfectly incorporated strain it again. Put your preparation into the vessel with ice, and as soon as it begins to take mix it with a plate of whipped cream, and finish in the same manner as other cheeses. COFFEE CONSERVES. Clarify and boil to small thread, or petite lisse, 1 lb. of sugar; take the sugar off the fire, and put into it a cup of coffee; stir it about until it comes to the feather, or grande plume, that the conserve may take the sugar and dry. COFFEE (with Cream). Put 2 spoonsful of coffee with some sugar into 3 pints of cold cream ; boil it for half an hour, and let it stand; beat up the yolks of 8 eggs, strain them through a sieve, and then mix the whole together. Put it in a bain marie to simmer over a slow fire, keeping constantly stirring. Coffee cream (i). Mix 3 cups of good coffee with 1 pint of cream, and sugar ac- cording to taste ; boil them together, and reduce it about one-third. Observe that the coffee must be done as if it was for drinking alone, and settled very clear before you mix it with the cream. COFFEE CREAM (2). Roast 1 oz. of coffee; and put it hot into 11^pint of boiling cream ; boil these together a little ; then take it off, and put in two dried gizzards ; cover this closely, and let it stand one hour; sweeten with double-refined sugar; pass it two or three times through a sieve with a wooden spoon ; put it into