CAP [ 380 ] CAP seilles and Toulon, and in many parts of Italy. In the early part of the summer it begins to flower, and the flowers continue successively to appear until the commencement of winter. The huds are picked every morning before the petals are expanded, and as they are gathered they are put into vinegar and salt. When a sufBcient quantity is collected they are distributed, ac- cording to size, into different vessels, again put into vinegar, and then packed up for sale and exportation. CAPILLAIRE (1). Capillaire is made from the fern called maiden-hair [Aspleniutn adian- tum nigrum), which has a light and agreeable fragrance, but so extremely volatile that the greatest part of it is dissipated during the pre- paration of the syrup. To preserve the odour of the capillaire, when your syrup is sufficiently done, pour it, whilst boiling, upon some fresh capillaire coarsely chopped up ; then cover your vessel, and let it stand until it is quite cold; then pass it through a bolting-cloth to separate it from the leaves of the capillaire:—Take 1 oz. of the capillaire from Canada, put it into a glazed pan, pour upon it 4 pints of boiling water, leave it to infuse for twelve liours over some warm ashes ; strain it, and let it run into a vessel. It will give you a strong tincture; add 4 lbs. of sugar. Put the whole into a preserving- pan, put it on the fire, and clarify it with the white of an egg; continue the boiling. When your syrup is perU put some fresh capillaire, chopped, into a pan, and pour your syrup, whilst boiling, upon it. Cover your pan carefully, and let it cool. When your syrup is cold you may flavour it as you please. Put it into bottles, cork them, and tie down with bladder. CAPILLAIRE (2). Take some good capil- laire, chop it up, not very small, put it upon a sieve. Pour upon it some boiling water, and then let it infuse for ten hours in a vessel well covered. Strain this infusion, and put into it. some sugar boiled to cracking consistence. For 3^ pints of syrup you must use 2 good ozs. of capillaire, 4 pints of water, and 4 lbs. of sugar. Powder sugar is the best, as it prevents syrups from candving. CAPILOTADE. Cut up a cold roast fowl; then take a good slice of butter, and some shred mushrooms and potherbs. Fry these till they are about to turn-brown with a tea-spoonful of flour; then add to them a large glass of white wine. Let the whole simmer together for a quarter of an hour. Next put in the pieces of fowl, and heat them up for a few minutes. Garnish your dish with fried slices of bread; and just before you serve pour into the sauce- pan 2 table-spoonsful of oil, taking care that it does not boil, and stir it up well with the sauce. CAPON. A capon, if alive, will have a thick fat rump, a fat thick belly, and a fat vein under its wing on the side of its breast; and if young it will have a short spur and a smooth leg ; but if old a sharp spur ; but see the spur be not cut, pared, or scraped small, and if you have any doubt press it upon the breast with your thumb, and if the thumb go in easy it is young, but if old it is hard. If alive see it is not bruised upon the breast with car- riage, or have any sore or wen about it. If it be pale about the head and have a short comb, then it is young, but if red about the head it is not a clean capon. CAPON (with Crayfish). Stew a capon a la braise; then make a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, and the tails of crayfish; toss it up with a little melted lard, moisten with a good deal of veal gravy, and thicken it with a cuUis of crayfish. Then take up your capon, let it drain, then put it in a dish, and pour your ragout over it and serve. You must be careful not to let your ragout boil after you have put in your cray- fish cullis ; for, if it should, it will turn ; there- fore, only keep it over hot embers. CAPON (the Italian way). Boil some rice in mutton broth till it is very thick, adding salt and sugar; then boil some Bologna sausages very tender, mince them very small, add some grated cheese, sugar, and cinnamon, and mix the whole together. Then, your capon being boiled or roasted, cut it up, lay it on a dish with some rice, strew over it some of the sausage, cinnamon, grated cheese, and sugar, and lay on the yolks of raw eggs. Thus make two or three layers, lay some eggs, butter, or marrow on the top of all, and set it over a chafing-dish of coals, or in a warm oven. CAPON (with Oysters). Dress a capon d la braise, then simmer some mushrooms and truffles in some veal gravy over a stove, and thicken it with a cullis of veal and ham. Give some oysters two or three turns in their own liquor over the fii'e, to blanch them, but do not let them boil. Take them off, clean them well, and put them into the ragout you have prepared. Set it over the fire to heat, but do not let it boil. Take up the capon, let it drain, lay it in a dish, pour the ragout over, and serve it hot. CAPON (with Rice). Cover a capon with a thin layer of bacon, and put it in a saucepan with lib. of rice, half under and half over the fowl; fill up the saucepan with stock, and salt to your taste. Put the whole over a slow fire with some charcoal on the lid of the saucepan. When the rice has absorbed all the stock serve it under the fowl. CAPON: To Fricassee. Take a capon, either roasted or boiled, cut it up, and take the pinions from the wings and the brawn from the joints. Being thus prepared put it into a pan;