[ 539 ] GAM GAL 8 gallons make a bushel. The old uine gallon contained 231 cubic inches, and the old ale and leer gallon contained 282 cubic inches. The imperial corn gallon is the same for wine and ale, and is about one-fifth larger than the old wine gallon, and one-sixtieth less than the old ale gallon. The imperial gallon holds 10 lbs. avoirdupois of pure water. GALLS of the oak, or nut-galls, are excres- cences produced by the wounds of an insect [Cynips quercvsfolii), in which it deposits its eggs. In medicine they are one of the most powerful of astringents, and are used in making astringent gargles and lotions, also as a denti- frice, and as an ointment for the piles. They are likewise largely employed by dyers, and no good black writing ink can be made without them. GALVANISM and Electricity. We have only to consider these as a curative agent. Their efficacy in the cure of several diseases has been supported by many very respectable authorities. They have, for a length of time, been employed as a local and general stimulus, though, for the most part, in consequence of being chiefly found in the hands of people little acquainted with the nature and extent of disease, the proper time of applying, and the extent to which the application ought to be carried to constitutions in which they are likely to prove serviceable, they have been adopted in the most absurd and contradictory manner possible, and not, too, without being accompanied with danger. They are certainly powerful stimulants to the nervous system, hut have all the bad qualities of high excitants. If applied too strongly they exhaust the irritability, and thus it is that lightning kills. If not applied sufficiently strong they are of no service whatever. They are recommended in torpor of the circulatory system, in torpor of the absorbent vessels, in palsy, green sickness, in paralysis of the optic nerve (gutta serena), a tendency to fainting, general debility, and certain spasms affecting par- ticular parts, e.g., St. Vitus's dance, stiff joints, &c. In all these they are most efficacious, but often fail when the disease is of long standing. They succeed most frequently in St. Vituss dance, and the quantity given ought to be varied according to the disease. GAMBOGE is a bright yellow gum used in painting as well as in medicine. It is produced by a tree or trees belonging to the natural order of Clusiacece, or balsam trees, but by which of them is not quite certain. This gum comes from Siam, and other parts of India and its adjacent countries. In giving it as a medicine no form is more judicious than that of a pill. Its alkaline solution has been sometimes exhi- bited in dropsy, when it is said to operate both on the bowels and kidneys. Dose, 2 grains to 6 grains. It is a powerful drastic cathartic, and removes the water effused in dropsy ; very liable to excite vomiting, and from this peculiar action upon the stomach it has been frequently em- ployed with success in the expulsion of teniae, and it accordingly enters as an ingredient into many of the empirical compositions which are sold for the cure of tape worms. The specific of Herenschivand, which formerly excited so much interest in Germany, consisted of 10 grains of gamboge with 20 grains of sub- carbonate of potass, although it is said that, on its being analysed by order of Elizabeth of Russia, there were also found in it both mercury and arsenic. Gamboge is also the basis of the specific of Clossius. Golden spirit of scurvy grass is merely a solution of gamboge in the compound spirit of horseradish, and Morrison's pills contain it. GAME: To Choose. Hares when old have the claws blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the lip-cleft wide and large. When young the claws are smooth and sharp, the ears tear easily, and the cleft in the lip is not much spread. If newly killed the body is stiff and the flesh pale; but if black and limber it is stale. The principal difference between a hare and a leveret is, that the leveret should have a knob or small bone near the foot on its fore-leg, which a hare has not. Partridges. When young the legs are of a yellowish brown, and the bill of a dark colour. If fresh the vent of the partridge will be firm ; but if stale it will have a greenish look, and the skin will peel on being rubbed. Old birds may- be known by the whiteness of the bill and the blueness of the legs. When a person receives partridges of this description he should snap their legs, and draw out the sinews by pulling off the feet. Pheasants. The hen pheasant is most valued when with egg, in which state the vent is soft; but if it happens to be open and green she is stale, and the same is the case if the skin peels, when rubbed hard with the finger and thumb. The cock pheasant only has spurs, which, when the bird is young, are short, blunt, and round; but if old they are long and sharp. The feet of pheasant poults when new are supple, and the vents white and stitT; but when stale the former are dry, and the latter green. Plovers. There are two kinds of these migratory birds, the golden plover aud the dottrel. The former is mostly found in the western islands of Scotland, and the latter in Lincoln- shire and adjacent counties. They apjjear in small flocks from April to the middle of July, during which time they are extremely fat, and