BUT [ 188 3 BUT BUTTER, SALT: To Feeshen. To every pound of butter put 1 quart of new milk and a little anotta; churn them together till the milk breaks ; wash and make up. The butter gains 8 ozs., and is equally good, and perhaps better than winter fresh butter. If the butter were first washed with water to take out the salt, the buttermilk would be then fit for use. If it does not answer so well, which we are not aware of, use the salt buttermilk for making potato-cheese, even should there be pigs, as the whey, if boiled, will be of more service to them than the raw milk. It will also make good pudding. BUTTER, SALT: To Preserve. When the winter store of salt butter arrives the first thing to be done is to turn out the whole mass from the tub, or whatever it is sent in, and with a clean knife to scrape the outside; then wipe the tub with a clean cloth, and either sprinkle it all round with salt, or make a mild brine of salt and water boiled; allow it to get cold, and put it in a tub; then replace the butter, and keep the lid on to exclude the air. From a waat of proper cleanliness in the dairymaid in the first instance the outside of the butter which comes in contact with the vessel acquires a ran- cid taste, which gradually affects the whole mass unless the above-named precautions are used. BUTTER SAUCE. Pound a few cloves and garlic, pass them through a double-hair sieve into an earthenware pan; add some good olive oil; stir them together until they form a lump like butter. Salt it to your taste. BUTTER SAUCE (Burnt). Fry some butter; when it begins to smoke throw in some chopped parsley. When suffiaiently done add pepper, salt, and vinegai-. BUTTER, SQUIRTED, is a very pretty supper garnish for a dish, but requires to be very delicately used. It may be squirted lightly and handsomely as a garnish over lobster or crab, salad, ham, eggs, anchovy, or other zests, or in small, delicate tufts round any cold dish of sliced meat or collars, interspersed with parsley, fried crumbs, or lightly all over salmagundi; for these several purposes, and manj' others, it may be coloured and turned out in stars or flowers. It is a beautiful ornament to a table when used with taste, as it may also be flavoured with any sauce or spice, so as to take oS the buttery taste and raise the zest, coloured a deep yel- low, open like lace or spiral work over a white cold pillar with saifrjned eggs ; but if not done tastefully it becomes vulgar, and so with other things. Butter is sometimes used in garnishing dishes in the form of animals, fir trees, shells, Ac, which is not suitable. There are some things that will not be taken out of their sim- plicity without suffering in themselves and hurt- ing the eiiects of others. BUTTER AND SWEET HERBS. Take some chervil, half the quantity of pimpernel, chives, tarragon, and cress ; scald and chop the whole very small; then mix it with some good fresh butter. BUTTER, TAINTED : To Purify. Wash the butter through several waters, and put it on the fire in a melting-pan, and when it boils, which must be very slowly, skim it well; toast a slice of bread very brown, and leave it in the butter, or a stick or two of charcoal; leave it to simmer till it loses its taint. BUTTER, THICKENED. Melt what quantity of butter you may require ; be careful not to colour it; beat up the yolks of eggs and then pour them to the butter, beating them all the while. Put them on the fire ; add a little lemon-juice. BUTTER, TURNIP FLAVOURED: To Prevent. The week previous to giving cows turnips, when churning, save 2 or 3 quarts of buttermilk; the earthen pot in which the cream is itsually collected should be scalded, dried, and put before the fire to make it quite hot; when hot put the buttermilk into it, in order to make it sour: the morning and evening cream to be put to it, and then kept till churn- ing. A small quantity of saltpetre is then put into the cream. The same quantity of butter- milk to be saved every time after churning, and the same process repeated. The turnips to be well cleaned, tops and roots cut off, and no de- cayed turnips to be used on any account. When Swedish turnips are used we have found a pincli of pounded saltpetre, thrown into the pan when the milk is strained after milking, completely to prevent any disagreeable taste in the butter. BUTTERCUPS [Ranunculus acris). This, and all the other species of ranunculus, except the water crowfoot [R. aquatilis), are more or less acrid and poisonous. Mr. Hogg, in his " Natural History of the Vegetable Kingdom," says :— R. bulbosus, acris, sceleratus, fiamniula, awi- comus, thora, arvensis, and many others, have very powerful acrid properties ; and their fruits, when green, appear to be the parts in which this acridity is most intense. If the fresh-bruised leaves are applied to any part of the body a more or less active inflammation will soon appear, followed with hard swellings, which will speedily become a true blister. Recourse may, therefore, be had to these plants, as is the case in Norway and the Highlands of Scotland, when cantharides cannot be obtained, or when the irritant action of these on tender parts would be injurious. Taken internally the juice or extract of Ranun-. cuius acris causes an intense inflammation of the digestive organs, and if the dose has been con- siderable, it is a true acrid poison, followed by very serious results, and even death. The juice