BAT BAT [ 78 ] be taken before entering the bath. Where the arrangements are snch as to admit of it, a brief stay in a warm bath before going into the cold has a good effect. Nor, in general, is danger to be apprehended from such a proceeding. Though in most cases moderate exercise is advantageous before bathing, unless the person has an opportunity of springing out of bed into the bath, still he should never think of undressing and going into the water when fatigued, or when the skin is covered with perspiration. It is a good rule to wet the head before taking the plunge. For a person in good health, early in the morning is the best time to bathe ; for one more delicate from two to three hours after breakfast is preferable; but no one should bathe immediately after a full meal, particularly if there be a tendency of blood to the head, and a disposition to apoplexy. Exercise while in the bath, such as friction of the limbs and chest, or swimming, is advisable, but not even this can prevent evil consequences if the bather remain too long in the water. To say nothing of the risk of cramps and convulsive action of the respiratory muscles, from the blood being pent up in the large internal vessels, which may occur while the person is in the water, the foundation may be laid for future internal disease if the blood does not soon revisit the surface, either from the natural powers of re- action or from friction with coarse, dry cloths. Friction should follow the use of the bath in most instances, except where the bath has been in the sea, in which case the salt particles, if allowed to remain in contact with the skin, stimulate it more. The cases of disease for which cold bathing is a valuable remedy are morbidly increased irritability and sensibility, accompanied with general debility. If the sensibility be extremely high, it is best to begin with the tepid or cool bath, and pass gradually to the cold. Where there is a tendency to colds and rheumatism the cold bath is an excellent preventive ; for this purpose it should be used continually throughout the year, and the chest should be sponged with cold water, or vinegar and water may be substituted in winter, when there are not facilities for using the complete bath. Before beginning this practice, careful investigation of the state of the mucous membranes of the chest and intestinal canals should be made, as it will certainly prove hurtful where chronic inflam- mation of these organs exists. If tubercles are suspected to exist in the lungs, cold bathing should be dispensed with. Though cold bathing is very useful in a tendency to scrofulous diseases, it is very hurtful when these are really developed, though tepid and warm bathing are allowable. Where the increased irritability shows itself in the mental functions or in the muscular system, as in hypochondriasis or hysteria, cold bathing is very useful; and especially in the hypochondriasis of literary persons, accompanied with a disposition to indigestion and a dry, harsh skin. In actual indigestion, especially if complicated with sub-acute inflammation of the mucous membrane of the stomach or intes- tines, cold bathing is very injurious. In cases of torpor and loss of power, cold bathing is of much service; in a relaxed state of the skin, subject to debilitating perspirations, it is often the most eff'ectual remedy; in weak- ness of the limbs, or of any member, and after sprains or paralysis, the local cold bath is very useful. The astringent as well as tonic effect of the cold bath is employed to prevent the prolapsus or descent of diff"erent parts: hence, in a tendency to hernia (or even when it has oc- curred ice laid upon the tumour, and frequently renewed, has restored the bowel to its place, or at least warded off the inflammation till other means could be tried), in loss of power of the sphincter muscles, or of the contractile power of the bladder, pumping cold water on the back is very useful; but it should be used only for a minute at a time. In chronic haemorrhages, cold applied locally or generally has a good efi'ect. The cold bath, like every other powerful agent, when improperly used, is capable of pro- ducing much mischief; in some states of the system it must be carefully avoided. In in- fancy and very advanced age it is less admissible than at other times, and even quite improper if the debility be great. It is inadmissible during, or immediately before, certain condi- tions of the female system; also when there is congestion of blood in the veins or internal organs : hence it is not suited to chlorosis. In any organic affection of the heart, or aneurism, it is altogether improper. Of the Cold Showee-Bath and Douche we shall only observe here that their effects are more speedy, and extend more to the internal organs ; consequently they are only to be used for a very short time, whenever recourse is had to them. A glow of the surface is sooner felt after the shower than the common bath ; and as soon as this is perceived the person should withdraw himself from the stream. If the douche falls upon the head it produces almost instantaneous and most powerful effects. If its use be pro- longed, it quickly lowers, then destroys, the sensibility, induces faintings, and places the patient in the most imminent danger. Medical superintendence is therefore required thi'ough every stage of its employment. When the body is surrounded by media of a