[ 295 ] CHI CHI illness, or failure of milk from the breast in the mother. 2. Keep an infant dry and warm—to preserve health, promote growth, and obviate chafing. 3. Feed an infant in an upright posture—to give uniform distention to the stomach, and thus to obviate indigestion and gripes. 4. In the art of suckling it is proper to take a child frequently from the breast fpr a minute or two—to obviate too rapid a distention of the stomach, which occasions puking, or acidities. 5. Expose an infant early to the air—to strengthen and enable it to withstand colds, and to obviate purging. 6. Attend invariably to cleanliness in au infant—to prevent diseases of the skin, slow fever, rickets, and decline. 7. Let an infant's dress be loose and easy, and free from pins—to avert accidents, glandular obstructions, and impediments to growth. 8. Place an infant, when asleep, on the right side—to favour the descent of the food into the bowels, and to obviate indigestion, 9. Attend strictly to plaintive cries—by this means you may trace the first causes of illness, for a child will never cry if well and at ease. 10. Wash a strong child in cold water, and dip it thrice a week ; wash a weak one in warm water—to refresh, promote healthy perspiration, and prevent diseases of the skin. 11. Encourage a child to stretch and thrust out its limbs, and to crawl about—to teach it active habits early, to strengthen it, and promote the circulation. 12. Rub a young child night and morning all over with the hand—this exercises it, and promotes the circulation of the blood. 13. Comb a child's head, and wash it fre- quently with soap and water—to prevent scald head and painful eruptions behind the ears and on the neck. 14. If a child has cut four teeth, if it is in good health, and its bowels are regular, wean it at nine months, without any previous prepara- tion—do this to obviate numerous inconveni- ences both to the mother and child. 15. If a child has been lately weaned and is attacked with hooping cough, or any other severe disease, it may require the breast again—it will be thus supplied with the diluting nutriment ■which it would then stand in need of. Or, should a weaned child, to which is offered suit- able food, fall off in its health, decline, and pine away, it may be prudent to procure for it a good breast of mills, and to let the child suck again— to obviate an exhausting fever, which will inevitably prove fatal. N.B. Tills rule, however, must not be in- variably adopted, and ought always first to have tt physician's sanction. 16. An infant should have three or four stools daily of a bright orange colour—a devia- tion from this appearance denotes acidities and indigestion, requking the prompt interference of a physician. Rides adapted to childhood. 17. If a young child takes but little exercise give it but little solid food, increasing it in proportion to the exercise taken—to obviate thirst, fever, head- aches, and glandular obstructions. 18. Should a child's breath smell it is com- monly a symptom of a disordered stomach or of worms. Should its belly grow large, its com- plexion become pale, and skin soft, disease has already commenced. In either of these cases the child will require good open air, and not only domestic but medical management. 19. In a jit untie the clothes, raise the head, wipe away all froth from the mouth, and keep it open, pressing down the tongue, and drawing it forward at the same time. Let the child be first quickly exposed to cool fresh air, and its face sprinkled with cold water; then gently rub, with a warm hand, the belly, back, and limbs; apply a succession of warm flannels to them, or resort to a warm bath, and put warm tiles under the armpits; strike the soles of the feet smartly with a piece of flat wood; tickle the nostrils and inside of the ear with a feather or toothpick. To au infant give five drops of hartshorn in a little water; to a child two years old, ten drops in a little water. N.B. Remember, though no signs of life ap- pear, it is necessary for two hours to act up to these directions. Caution. Do not suffer the head to hang back, nor to lean forward upon the chest. Cautions adapted to infancy and childhood. 1. Never let an infant sleep alone in cold weather —for fear of suspending the breath and the circulation of the blood. 2. Never let an infant sleep the whole night on the mother's arm—for fear of suffocation. 3. Never awaken an infant out of a sound sleep by rough means-—for fear of producing fits or a purging. 4. Avoid the use of tight bandages, especially round the body—for fear of producing fits, ob- structions in the bowels, or decline. 5. Avoid giving Godfreys cordial. Daffy's elixir, or any other warm anodyne—for fear of producing fits, fever, or palsy, a common consequence of quack medicines indiscreetly given. 6. Avoid giving any quack medicine—for fear of bringing on decline or sudden death. 7. Avoid feeding infants in the night—for fear of bringing on the gripes, from over dis- tention of the stomach. 8. Avoid warm nurseries and close air—for