CON CON C S46 J finch were kept an account of, it would shame tnem to look at it. Drugs, draughts, and powders are the means they take to relieve themselves from their want of caution, and time but too truly proves they Jaiew not their con- stitution. We shall endeavour to give some rules for the guidance of those who may be in- clined to attend to our warning voice, and if we are not attended to in the heyday and spring of youth we are certain that our cautions will one day be obeyed. In relaxed habits exercise is not proper, viz., those whose bowels are apt to be loose and weak after it; at least, none that is of a violent description. We do not allude here to those whose bowels are surcharged with slime and gross humours. To them exercise is most bene- ficial, carrying out of the body all glutinous matter, which causes belching, twitching, faint- nesses, watchings, and a thousand other dis- agreeable symptoms. There are, however, some who have a natural defect in their organs of digestion, which, though it cainiot be amended by the art of medicine, can yet be alleviated by the patient himself taking care to suit his diet entirely to his stomach, if his stomach will not agree with what he chooses to put into it. Rice boiled without butter, calf, sheep, and cow-feet jellies, and such-like are proper, avoiding all kinds of hashes, flummery, butter, cream, and veal. Wine and water, whichever wine seems to suit the stomach best, will be proper for drink. Persons of a dry constitution should forbear hard laboiir,as well as flesh meats, and should for their drink confine themselves to wine and water. Labour forces off all thin humours, and makes the remaining gluish and clammy, and flesh becomes jelly at last. You have, therefore, nothing to do but dilute if indulgence in meat is essential to your comfort, and you will prefer the gratifica- tion of your appetite to health. We can only advise what is proper to be done, and, if that be not attended to, then do the best we can for those who transgress our rules, and will force nature out of her path. If you eat much you must work or exercise much, and if you use much exercise you will eat heartily. Exercise wastes us, while food repairs us. Eating without exer- cise is cramming, and more resembles a prepara- tion for the shambles than human indulgence in proper nourishment. CONSUMPTION. What is called regular tubercular phthisis, or consumption, usually sets in with a short dry cough, and that so slight as to become habitual before it excites the attention of the patient. The breathing is usually more easily hurried by bodily motion ; the patient becomes languid and indolent, and gradually loses strength ; the pulse is small, soft, and quicker than usual; at length, from some ex- citing cause, the cough becomes more trouble- some duriug the night, the breathing more anxious, a sense of tightness and oppression of the chest is experienced ; expectoration, at first of a frothy matter, takes place, and is most co- pious in the morning, becoming afterwards more considerable, viscid, and opaque. The breathing at length becomes more and more difficult; the emaciation and weakness go on increasing; a pain arises in some part of the chest, at first generally referred to the breast bone, but as the disease advances it is felt on one or both sides, which is increased by coughing, and sometimes becomes so acute as to prevent the patient from lying on the affected side. The face now begins to flush; the pulse becomes quick and hard ; the urine is high-coloured, and deposits a branny sediment; the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet are affected with burning heat; the tongue, from being white, is nowpreternaturally clear and red, and there is an expectoration of purulent matter; all the symptoms are increased towards the evening; the fever assumes the hectic form, having an increase of its pa- rox3'sms twice in the day, the first about noon, which is inconsiderable, and soon suffers a remission, the other in the evening, which gradually increases until after midnight. Hectic fever is known by increases at noon, but greater in the evening, with slight re- missions in the morning after nocturnal sweats, the urine depositing a reddish sediment; the appetite is generally good, and thirst moderate. Each exacerbation, or increase of the febrile symptoms, is usually preceded by chilliness, and terminates in profuse perspiration and the deposit of a furfuraceous sediment. This sediment is deposited in the urine of persons afflicted with fever of a reddish or whitish matter, which generally appears within an houi' or two after the urine is passed, and only falls in part to the bottom, the urine remaining turbid. The appetite now often mends, and generally becomes better than in the first stages of the complaint; the outer membrane of the eye assumes a pearly white colour; during the exacerbations a cir- cumscribed redness appears on each cheek, but at other times the face is pale, and the countenance is dejected; food is returned by vomiting; a diarrhoea comes on, and generally alternates with weakening sweats ; the emacia- tion is extreme; the countenance assumes a cadaverous appearance ; the cheeks are promi- nent; the eyes hollow and languid; the bail falls off; the nails are of a livid colour, and much incurvated ; the legs swell and become puffy; little white ulcers [aphtha) appear in the throat; still the appetite often remains entire, and the patient flatters himself with hopes of