[ 36 ] APP APP APPLE SAUCE (1). Pare and core 3 good- sized baking apples ; put them into a well-tinned pint saucepan, with 2 table-spoonsful of cold water ; co\er the saucepan close, and set it on a trivet over a slow fire a couple of hours before dinner (some apples will take a long time stew- ing, others will be ready in a quarter of an hour); when the apples are done enough, pour off the water, let them stand a few minutes to get dry; then beat them up with a fork, with a bit of butter as big as a nutmeg and a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar.—^N.B. Some add lemon-peel, grated or minced fine, or boil a bit with the apples. APPLE SAUCE (2). As the apples are pared throw them into water and lemon-juice to preserve their colour; simmer and pulp. A more economical and much nicer way is to roast them, as it gives such a flavour to the sauce; mix them with cream, butter, and sugar; when there is no cream, use rice-flour boiled to a consistency in milk. A little lemon-juice is an excellent addition. Bread may be added. APPLE SNOW. Scoop the core out of 6 good apples and fill them with quince marmalade; stew them tender in ^ pint of water with some sugar and lemon-peel; add a little more mar- malade ; put the apples with the liquor in the dish; beat the white of 6 eggs to a snow with orange-flower water; add sugar to taste ; cover the apples with it, and bake half an hour. APPLE SOUFFLET. Prepare apples as for baking in a pudding; put them into a deep dish, and lay upon the top, about 1| inch thick, rice boiled in new milk with sugar; beat to a stiff froth the whites of 2 or 3 eggs with a little sugar; lay it upon the rice, and bake it in an oven a light brown. Serve it instantly when done. APPLE TART. Pare, core, and cut the best sort of baking apples in small pieces, and lay them in a dish previously lined with a pufF- crust; strew over them pounded sugar, cin- namon, mace, nutmeg, cloves, and lemon-peel, chopped small, then a layer of apples, and then spice, and so on till the dish is full; pour over the whole a glass and a half of white wine. Cover it with pufF-crust, and bake it. When done, take off the crust, and mix with the apples 2 ozs. of fresh butter, and then pour in 2 eggs, well beaten ; lay the crust on again, and serve it either hot or cold. You may add pounded almonds and a little lemon-juice. APPLE TART, CREAMED (1). Use green codlings in preference to any other apple, and proceed as in the last receipt. When the pie is done, cut out the whole of the centre, leaving the edges ; when cold, pour on the apple some rich boiled custard, and place round it some small leaves of puff-paste of a light colour. APPLE TART, CREAMED (2). Slice 10 or 12 apples ; put them into clarified sugar, with wine, cinnamon, and cloves; let them simmer till clear; cover a dish with paste, lay in some chipped almonds and citron ; put in the apples, strew more almonds over them, and fill up with custard. When the border is done the tart is ready. Grate sugar, almonds, and citron over it. APPLE TARTLETS. Pare a dozen small, sound apples; core and cut them across; put them in a preserving-pan with a glass of water, i lb. of sugar, and the juice of a lemon. When sufficiently done, put the apples on a sieve to drain. Prepare your tartlets according to the directions for Apkicot Tartlets ; put in each a little apple marmalade, and bake them in a hot oven. In the meantime reduce the syrup to a thin jelly, and pour it on the apple tartlets when baked, and finish them by placing a cherry, or, if they are not in season, a pre- served berry of any kind on the top. APPLE TRIFLE (with Custard). Pulp 1 lb. of roasted apples; sift over them i lb of sugar, the whites of 4 eggs, and a little oi'ange-flower water; whisk all well together till they become a fine froth; put sweetened cream or an almond custard in a dish ; raise it high over it; garnish with delicate greenhouse flowers, fruit, jelly, biscuits, or preserves. It looks well in glasses. APPLES IN PANCAKES. Cut some apples very small; stew them in a little white wine, grated lemon-peel, pounded cinnamon, and brown sugar; mash them, and spread them over the pancakes; roll them up, and serve with sifted loaf sugar over them. APPLES, PRESERVED (1). Pare, core, and quarter 6 lbs. of good baking apples; finely pound 4 lbs. of loaf sugar ; put a layer of each alternately with i lb. of the best white ginger into a jar; let it remain eight-and-forty hours; infuse for half that time in a little boiling water 2 ozs. of bruised white ginger; strain and boil the liquor with the apples till they look clear, and the syrup rich and thick, which may be in about an hour. Take off the scum as it I'ises. When to be eaten, pick out the whole ginger. APPLES, PRESERVED (2). Weigh equal quantities of good brown sugar and of apples; peel, core, and mince them small. Boil the sugar, allowing to eveiy 31bs. 1 pint of water; skim it well, and boil it pretty thick; then add the apples, the grated peel of one or two lemons, and two or three pieces of white ginger; boil till the apples fall, and look clear and yellow. This preserve will keep for years. APPLES, PRESERVED (Codlins). Gather the codlins, when not bigger than French wal- nuts, with the stalks and a leaf or two on each.