cus CUT [ 390 ] ^Ib. of Gruyere cheese cut in dice. When the whole is thoroughly incorporated, if the paste be not sufficiently moist (it should be of the consistence of the choux), add an egg or two; then whip six whites of eggs firmly, and put it in, with six spoonsful of Chantilly cream. Pour this preparation while hot into a raised crust at least ten inches in height, and bake it for two hours or two hours and a half in a moderate oven. Serve it hot. CUSTAED, TURKISH. Put IJlb. of good rice into cold water over the fire, and when it boils take it off and drain it well; then put it into a large saucepan, with twelve glasses of good milk, 1 lb. of butter, the same of sugar, ou which have been rasped the peels of four oranges or cedrats, and a grain of salt; put the sauce- pan over a moderate fire to swell the rice, taking care that none of the grains burst; stir it a little, and when done add to it 2 lbs. of dry currants, the yolks of twelve eggs, and some spoonsful of Chantilly cream, after which mix in the twelve whites wliipped firmly. Prepare the crust in the usual way, and bake it in a moderate oven two hours and a half. When ready for table brown it with a salamander. CUSTAED, TURNING OUT. Mix with the well-beaten yolks of four eggs a pint of new milk, i oz. of isinglass dissolved, or enough of calf's foot stock to stiffen it, and two laurel leaves; sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over a slow fire till it thickens ; pour it into a basin, stir it till a little cooled, and then pour it into cups to turn out when quite cold. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a little cream, add it to nearly |-lb. of brown sugar burnt, strain it through a sieve, and when cold pour it round the custards. CUSTARDS, SMALL. Put 1 oz. of sifted flour into a small saucepan with an egg, and stir it over the fire till it becomes a very smooth paste; mix with it six yolks and a whole egg, i lb. of powder sugar, six macaroons crushed, and a grain of salt; stir it well for some time, and then add ten mouldsful of cream, -| oz. of crisped orange flowers, or the rind of an orange, lemon, or cedrat. When your moulds are lined with puff paste put in each a piece of butter the size of a filbert; then pour in the prepara- tion, and put them in a brisk oven; serve them quite hot. These quantities will make eighteen. CUTCHEEEE, INDIAN. Steep a pint of split peas, and add a large tea-cupful of rice, an onion, ginger, pepper, mace, and salt; boil till the peas and rice 'are swelled and tender, but not clammy, and stir them with a fork till the water is wasted. Serve up in a dish garnished with hard eggs and whole boiled onions. The stirring with a fork is to prevent the grains being broken. CUTCHEREE SOUP, AMERICAN. Pre- pare and pulp some of the nicest dry green peas ; put them into any nicely seasoned white soup, with coriander, mint, or any preferred sweet herb; to 1 lb, of peas add 2 ozs. of rice, and finish it with egg and cream, or keep out the egg and add curry powder; or make it of brown soup, with fried onions, allspice, and sage, and thicken it with blood. Dry rice must be sei'ved with all curries. CUTLETS. See Mutton and Veal. CUTLETS, MAINTENON. Cut sllceg about three quarters of an inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both sides with egg; dip them in a seasoning of bread crumbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjorarb, pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them. Serve them with melted butter, and a little mushroom catsup mixed with it. CUTLETS, SAUCE FOR. When the cutlets are taken out of the frying-pan leave a table-spoonful of the fat behind, or put into it instead about 1 oz. of butter; add as much flour as will make a paste; rub these well together till they are browned, then put in as much boiling water as will reduce the whole to the thickness of cream, and a table-spoonful of mushroom or walnut catsup or browning; boil all together a few minutes, and pour it through a sieve into a dish with the cutlets. CUTLETS EN SURPRISE. Take some puff paste, roll it out to a moderate thickness, and cut it into pieces the form of small hearts ; lay some apricot marmalade on them, turn them over, press the edges together, lay them on a tin, and bake them; cut some common paste into bands so a.s to resemble mutton bones; bake, but do not colour them. When the cutlets are done dorez them; crush some mush- rooms, which sprinkle over instead of bread; make a skewer red-hot, and lay it on the cutlets to imitate the marks of the gridiron. Dish them en consommee, with the bones placed in proper order, and serve. CUTS AND WOUNDS. No part of medi- cine has been more mistaken than the treatment or cure of wounds. Mankind in general believe that certain herbs, ointments, and plasters are possessed of wonderful healing powers, and imagine that no one can be cured without the application of them. It is, however, a fact that no external application whatever contributes towards the cure of a wound any other way than by keeping the parts soft and clean, and defending them from the external air, which may be as effectually done by dry lint as by the most pompous applications, while it is exempt from many of the bad consequences attending them.