[ 470 ] END EMO Vomiting may also be produced by tickling the inside of the throat by means of a long feather. EMOLLIENTS are those medicines which are supposed to soften and relax the fibres of the body, either by mechanically distending such as before were too closely, that is, preter- naturally combined, or by penetrating into the interstices of the elementary fibres, and supply- ing those particles from a deficiency of which they were too intimately united. Among the remedies of the former class are chiefly heat and all unctuous applications, such as lard, wax, fat of venison, &c.; to the latter belong all juicy, mucilaginous, and saccharine substances, serving both as nutriment and medicines. Of this de- scription are the expressed vegetable oils, fresh butter, decoctions of the marsh-mallows, intu- sions of linseed, &c. Emollients are required— 1. When the fibres are in too rigid a state. 2. When they are spasmodically contracted. 3. In all active inflammations, and 4. In obstinate costiveness, or accumulations of feces in the intestines. EM POTAGE. Put into a large saucepan 3 lbs. or 4 lbs. of beefsteaks, a knuckle of veal, and four old hens; moisten this quantity of meat with two ladlesful of broth; set it on a stove, and let it boil till properly reduced, taking care that none of the meat burns, which would make the empotage of too high a colour; fill up your saucepan with broth, adding carrots, turnips, and onions ; let all these ingredients stand over the fire for three hours and a half; then strain the whole through a silk sieve that it may be perfectly clear. EMULSIONS are medicines resembling milk, often prescribed to prevent the action of acrid humours. Almond milk (1). Sweet almonds, 1 oz.; three bitter almonds. Steep the almonds in hot water for a minute or two, and the skin or bark of them will afterwards peel off easily. White sugar, 21bs.; distilled water, 2 pints; orange-flower water, 2 drachms. The bitter almonds improve the flavour. Or (2), confec- tion of almonds, 1 oz.; distilled water, 1 pint. Pectoral. CamjjJiorated emulsion. Camphor, 1 scruple; sweet almonds, 2 drachms; lump sugar, 1 drachm; water, 4 ozs. Emulsion of gum arahic. Gum arable, 2 drachms; sweet almonds and lump sugar, of each ^ drachm; barley water, 1 pint. Oil of almonds emulsion. Oil of almonds, 1 oz.; gum arable in powder, 1 drachm ; simple eyrup, 1 oz.; rose water, l^oz. In coughs. ENDIVE, BOILED (Salad of). Clean the endive without separating the leaves from the stalks, and boil it in salt and water; remove it into cold water, and drain it on a cloth ; serve it in a deep dish, garnished with beet-root. ENDIVE WITH GRAVY. Blanch and drain some endive, split the heads in half, and season each with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; ihen tie the halves together, put them into a stewpan on some slices of bacon, and cover them in the same way; put in also veal, mutton, or beef (shred), two onions, two cloves, two carrots, and a bunch of sweet herbs; moisten the whole with the skimmings of consomme. Stew the endive thus for three hours ; then drain and press it in a cloth ; trim and dish it up for table. ENDIVE, POTTAGE OF. Cut four or five heads of endive into very small pieces, and do them up in a small quantity of butter; do not let them brown; moisten with water, and boil for three quarters of an hour; season the pottage with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; thicken it with the yolks of three eggs, pour it as usual on bread, and serve it. ENDIVE IN PUREE. Pick and well wash in several waters a dozen heads of endive; then, having a large stewpan of water boiling on the fire, put in the endive with a handful of salt, skim it well, and let it boil till done; then let it drain for two or three minutes ou a hair sieve, and with a wooden spoon rub it through the same sieve into a dish ; put it Into a comer of the sieve again for an hour and a half longer to drain the water from it; then stir it on the fire in a stewpan with a piece of butter; as soon as it is melted add three or four spoonsful of good consomme, and continue btirring it on the fire till it boils to its former thickness; when it does so mix in three spoonsful of bechamel sauce; boil it for a minute, take it off the fire, and stir in the yolk of one egg, with a little cream and salt, and a very little sugar if required. ENDIVE RAGOUT. Take three or four heads of the whitest endive, and put them in salt and water for two or three houis; cut off the heads from ten sticks of asparagus, and chop the rest small as far as they are tender; lay them also in salt and water; take three or four heads of celery washed and scraped clean, and cut in pieces two or three iuches long; put them into a saucepan, with three or four blades of mace, some whole pepper tied in a rag, and a pint of water. Stew tlie celery till it is quite tender, then put in the as- paragus, shake the saucepan, and let it simmer till the asparagus is done. Take the endive out of the water, and drain it well; leave one head whole, and pull the others leaf from leaf; put them into a stewpan with a pint of white wine ; cover the pan quite close, and let it boil till it is Bufficiently done; then put in J lb. of butter rolled in flour; cover it closely, but shake the pan; take up the endive, and put the whole head