FRU I 6S2 ] esteemed as liigTily as tliose of Frontignan. They contain 15-52 per cent, of alcohol. FROTH FOR CREAMS OR CUSTARDS. Sweeten ^Ib. of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit; put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them till it will stand as high as you wish, and being put on the cream, &c., with a spoon, it will take any form: it should be rough to imitate a rock. FROZEN or Frost-bitten. When a per- son has been long exposed to the action of cold, suffering a general numbness and a sort of intoxication, he quickly falls asleep, and. becomes quite insensible. It sometimes happens that he returns to his senses without assistance, but he more frequently dies. Our duty is to remove him to a convenient , place, where the necessary aid can be given. If the body be naked it should be covered, but the head left bare. The body should, if possible, be plunged into the snow, and rubbed gently with it, direct- ing the friction from the stomach towards the extremities. In a few minutes after the friction should be with cloths steeped in cold water, the temperature of which is to be gradually in- creased ; in a word, great care must be taken that the body be not heated suddenly, but slowly and by degrees. If neither ice nor snow can be procured the body must be placed in a bath of cold water, gradually raising the temperature, and con- tinuing the friction as before directed : water may also be sprinkled upon the face. The lips and nostrils should be irritated with a feather, or other light substance, and the lungs must be inflated as mentioned under the article Deowned, Apparently. Volatile alkali, or other stimu- lating substances, should also be applied to the nose. When the body is restored to a degree of warmth, and the limbs become flexible, it should be placed in a dry, but not warm bed, and be rubbed with a brush. A stimulating clyster may now be administered. When the power of swallowing is restored we should give some vinegar and water, mint water, thin broth, or water with a very small quantity of wine. Solid food ought not to be allowed until several hours after complete restoration. Frozen limbs ought to be treated in the same manner as above, except that only the parts affected are to be placed in a cold bath, and the friction confined to the same. Six or seven drops of aromatic spirits of ammonia may be given, mixed with a little orange-flower water, or with simple water. FRUIT : To Prepare for Children. Put apples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseberries, &c., into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as necessary among them; place the jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is per- fectly done. FRUIT : To Preserve Green. Take pip- pins, apricots, pears, plums, or peaches, while they are green ; put them in a preserving pan, cover them with vine leaves, and then with fine clear spring water ; put on the cover of the pan, set them over a very clear fire, and when they begin to simmer remove them from the fire, and carefully take them out with the slice; peel and preserve them as other fruit. FRUIT : To Preserve for Tarts. Gather cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples when ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound ; strew over each jar 6 ozs. of good loaf sugar pounded ; cover with two blad- ders, each separately tied down ; then put the jars up to the neck in a large stewpan of water, and let it boil gently for three hours. All sorts of fruit should be kept free from damp. FRUIT, ARTIFICIAL. Save the stalks of any kind of fruit with the stones ; take some tins very smooth on the inside, and of the shape intended ; leave a hole to put in the stone and stalk, and so contrived as to open in the middle to take out the fruit; have also a wooden frame to mix them in. Take some stron-J jelly, strain it, put it into a saucepan, sweeien it, add perfumed lemon-peel, and colour it according to the fruit represented. Stir the whole, and boil it; fill the tins, and put in the stones and stalks. When cold open the moulds, and put on the bloom. FRUIT BEVERAGES. These may be made of any kind of fresh or preserved fruits, heightened by an addition of their essences. Lemons, China or Seville oranges, sweet or bitter almonds, syrups, capillaire, &c., peach, necta- rine, apricot, and cherry kernels ought to be preserved for making them, but not used in too great a quantity in these mixtures. FRUIT BISCUITS. To the pulp of any scalded fruit put an equal quantity of sugar sifted, and beat it two hours ; then put it into little white paper forms ; dry them in a cool oven, turn them the next day, and in two or three days box them. FRUIT, BISCUITS OF PRESERVED. Take dried preserved fruits, such as apricots, verjuice, grapes, plums, oranges, and a little orange-flower marmalade ; pound them together, and sift in a sieve ; then mix with it yolks of new-laid eggs and fine powder sugar until it comes to a supple paste, but not too liquid; then bake them on paper in a moderate oven. FRUIT FOR BRANDY. Take the pro- posed quantity of fruits gathered before they are perfectly ripe, dry them carefully, prick