CAE, CAR C 235 ] they should be changed three or four times a day. This treatment is to be continued till all the sloughs have separated, and till the sore below put on a healing action. We are then to apply any mild dressing spread on lint. Atten- tion is to be paid to general symptoms. We are to keep the bowels open by proper laxatives, to give antimonial medicines in order to keep the sldn moist, and freely to use bark and wine to obviate gangrene and debility. The carbuncles which we meet with in this country, though sometimes bad enough, and when occurring in unhealthy constitutions of great danger, are yet mild when compared with the carbuncles that occur in warm climates. CARDAMOM COMFITS. Procure your cardamoms at the chemists', and they will be in a shell; put them into the oven to dry the skins and they will break; pick all the seeds from them, put the seeds into a large comfit pan, and have a fire under, the same as for others. Mix your gum, starch, and syrup, and finish them the same as caraway comfits. CARDAMOM SEEDS are produced by a plant named by botanists Alpinia cardamomum. They are an ingredient in all good curry powder. They are carminative and stomachic, and prove grateful adjuncts to bitter infusions. They are principally employed to give warmth to other remedies. Dose of the powder, 6 grains to 1 scruple. Cardamom seeds should be kept within their husks, or their virtues will soon be considerably impaired. They are frequently mixed with grains of paradise, which are much hotter and more spicy, but less aromatic in their flavour. CARDAMOM WATER. Take pimento, caraway, and coriander seeds, and lemon, of each 4 ozs.; 3 gallons of proof spirit, and a sufficient quantity of water. Distil, and sweeten it with 1| lb. of sugar. CARDINAL. Cardinal is old Rhenish wine mulled. CARDOONS (in Batter). Having prepared the cardoons, marinade them in vinegar, salt, and pepper. Prepare a nice, light batter, dip them into it, and fry them a light brown. CARDOONS (in Cheese). Add to the sauce in which the cardoons are cooked grated Parme- san or Gruyere cheese, and put it over them when placed in the dish; cover them with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, and pour melted butter over the whole. Colour it in the oven, or with a salamander. CARDOONS (Fried and Buttered). You must cut them about six inches long, and string them, then boil them till tender; take them out, have some butter in yoiu- stewpan, flour them, and fry them brown. Serve them in a dish, with melted butter in a cup. CARDOONS (with Marrow). Take a few pieces of beef marrow, all of a size, and put them to disgorge in warm water, to draw out all the blood. When thoroughly disgorged blanch and stew them in a little water, with a little salt, and a few slices of lemon to keep it white. When done put it into the essence, which is nothing but Espagnole reduced. Drain the fat, and do not forget to put a little sugar, which is requisite in all dishes of cardoons, as it makes them much better. CARDOONS: To Dress. Cut them in pieces six inches long and put them on a string; boil till tender, have ready a piece of butter in a pan, flour and fry them. They may also be fried in bundles and served as asparagus, boiled on a toast, and butter poured over. CARDOONS, PUREE OF. Boil some cardoons in a blanc, and cut them into small pieces. Have ready 3 large spoonsful of veloute and 6 of consomme, in which put the cardoons ; set them on the fire till reduced to a paste, and then pass tliem through a bolting. Keep your puree as thick as purees usually are, but, if too thick, put in a little cream. Add a bit of jelly about the size of a walnut. Keep it hot without boiling in the bain marie. CARDOONS, SPANISH. Cut them into lengths of three inches (be careful to use those which are hollow and green); boil them for half an hour; put them into lukewarm water to cleanse them from their slime ; then dress them in some stock, with a spoonful of flour, some salt, onions, roots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little verjuice, and a little butter. When done put them into a cullis with some stock. Cook them for an hour in this sauce, and serve. CARDOONS, STEWED. Cutthem in pieces, take off the outside skin, and wash and scald them. Put them into a stewpan, add stock enough to cover them, boil till three parts done, and the liquor nearly reduced; then add a little bechamel, and stew them gently till done. Serve with sippets of fried bread round the dish, and the cardoons in the centre. CARDS. These, whether for visiting, invita- tion, or returning thanks, cannot be too plain. Embossed cards, or fancy ornamented printing upon them, are not suggestions of good taste. When a black edge is necessary do not let it be excessively broad. When the family called upon are from home a gentleman should leave one card for the lady of the house, and another for the gentleman; but a lady should leave only one. A card must also be left for each visitor in the house to whom the compliment of a call is intended. When a visit of condolence is paid, even to intimate friends, it is usual to send up your card. It is held very courteous