[ 34 ] APP APP APPLE CAKE. Pare and core a dozen apples, and make them into marmalade with essence of lemon and a little cinnamon, and pass them through a cloth: put them into a stewpan with a spoonful of potato-flour, I lb. of sugar, and 2 ozs. of butter; dry the mixture over the fire, and, when cold, add to it 6 eggs; stir them well in, and, having buttered a mould, pour your preparation into it, and bake it in a slow oven; when done, turn it upon a dish, and serve. APPLE CHARLOTTE. Cut a sufficient number of thin slices of white bread to cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking dish, first rubbing it thickly with butter. Put thin slices of apples into the dish in layers till the dish is full, strewing sugar and bits of butter between. In the meantime, soak as many thin pieces of bread as will cover the whole in warm milk; over which place a plate and a weight to keep the bread close upon the apples. Bake slowly for three hours. For a middling-sized dish you should use i lb. of butter. APPLE CHEESECAKES. Pare, core, and boil 12 apples with sufiicient water to mash them; beat them very smooth; add 6 yolks of eggs, the juice of 2 lemons, and some grated lemon peel, and | lb. of fresh butter beaten to a cream: beat the whole with the apples. Bake in a puff-crust and serve open. APPLE COMPOTE. Pare and cut 6 apples in half, and put them into a pan with a little water and lemon-juice; then clarify ^ lb. of sugar, and, when you have skimmed it, put in your apples and the juice of a lemon; turn the apples frequently. As soon as you find the fork will penetrate them they are sufficiently done, and may be taken out; strain and reduce the syrup; strain it again, and then pour it over your apples, which may be served either hot or cold. Garnish with the peel of a very red apple, cut into various devices and laid on the apples. APPLE CUSTARD. Take 30 fine apples and pierce out the cores of 10 of them of an equal size; pare and trim them neatly, and boil them in 6 ozs. of sugar till pretty firm. Peel and cut the remaining apples very small, and put them into the above syrup; shred the rind of an orange, and mix with them; stir the whole constantly, to prevent their sticking to the pan. When sufficiently done, rub the mar- malade through a horsehair sieve, and, if too moist, evaporate them until of a custard thick- ness. Beat up this pulp with the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites of two. Add gradually, and beat up with the mass, as much sifted loaf sugar as will sweeten it to your taste. Add, also, during this beating, 2 or 3 table-spoonsful of either rose water or orange-flower water. When all are thoroughly mixed, set them over a slow fire, and stir them until of the thickness of custard, taking cai'e that they do not boil, or the whole will be spoiled. APPLE DUMPLING. Make paste the same as for apple pudding; divide it into as many pieces as you want dumplings; peel the apples, and core them; then roll out your paste large enough, and put in the apples; close them all round, and tie them in pudding-cloths very tight. One hour will boil them, and when you take them up just dip them in cold water, and put them in a cup the size of the dumpling while you untie them, and then they will turn out without breaking. APPLE FLOATING ISLAND. Bake or scald 8 or 9 large apples; when cold, pare and pulp them through a sieve; beat this up with fine sugar ; put in the whites of 4 or 5 eggs that have been beaten in a little rose water; mix it a little at a time, and beat it till light. Heap it on a rich custai'd or jelly. APPLE FRITTERS (1). Pare, core, and cut in slices some large apples; then take |- pint of ale and 2 eggs; beat the mixture in as much flour as will give it of a consistence rather thicker than that of a common pudding. Add nutmeg and sugar, and let the whole stand a few minutes to rise ; then dip the slices of apple into the batter, fry them crisp, and serve them up with sugar grated over them, and wine sauce in a boat. APPLE FRITTERS (2). Beat the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs well together; strain them into a pan; then take 1 quart of cream make it moderately hot, and add 2 glasses of sherry, | pint of ale, and mix them well toge- ther; then add nutmeg and ginger, grated, salt and flour at pleasure. The batter should be pretty thick; then put in sliced apples or scraped pippins, and fry them quick in butter. APPLE JELLY. Pare, core, and quarter any quantity of good apples; cover them well with water, and let them boil till soft; drain them through a sieve into a pan, and in the meantime have ready a syrup made by boiling the rinds and cores in water; strain it ofi", and boil it with a sufficient quantity of sugar to make it rich. Take as much of this as of the juice which passes through the sieve, and boil it thoroughly; then add the jelly, and boil all together eight or ten minutes. This jelly should be kept covered with paper dipped in brandy, like all others made of fruit. APPLE MARMALADE. Pare, core, and cut your apples into small pieces; put them into water with a little lemon-juice to keep them white; take them out after a short time and drain them; weigh, and put them into a stewpan. If for present use, ^ lb. of sugar will