GOU GOU [ 570 ] pistachios ; put it into a moderate oven, and let it take a fine yellow tint on both sides. If the top is sufBciently coloured Lefore the bottom, cover the top with papers till the other has attained its colour, as the colour must be equal. Take them out the moment they are ready, as half a minute more will make them brittle, and will render it impossible to give them a fine form; and if not done enough they will not preserve their form, and will be disagreeable by sticking to the teeth. When they are done enough cut them in lengths two inches broad, and then into two inches square or oblong; set the pan in the mouth of the oven, have a small roller of four or five feet long, place them on the roller, and give them a half-circular form. It takes one very quick or two hands to this operation, as the gouffre soon changes colour. It is, there- fore, better to put one half into the oven before the other, which gives time to manage it. GOULARD'S EXTRACT, or Goulahd's Water, is a weak solution of acetate of lead It is sold by all chemists. It may always be formed when required, if some of the crystals of acetate of lead are kept in the house, as we shall presently direct. The use of acetate of lead has been revived in Paris in pulmonary hemorrhage and in dysentery, often combined with opium. The dose is half a grain or a grain eveiy two or three hours till it succeeds, or its continuance becomes unsafe. It forms, however, a very valuable external application in super- ficial and phlegmonio inflammations, bruises, and diseases of the skin. It is always applied in solution, either simply, or by means of cloths soaked in it, or mixed with bread crumb. A drachm, with 5 ozs. of any distilled water, forms a strong solution, and with 10 ozs. of water a weak solution. If common water be used the addition of about a drachm of acetic acid will be necessary to keep the lead in solution. GOURDS : To Faece. Open a little bit at the top, scoop out a little of it, put it in a piece of butter mixed with mace and salt; put in the top, and set it in the oven. Have a nice ragout of any kind ready; take off the top, mix the butter with the pulp, and if there is not room enough take out a spoonful or two, put in the ragout, and cover it with the top, or garnish it with an appropriate garnishing. Dish it up on fried parsley or on a napkin. Take care that the skin in cutting-is not split: it should be gone cai'efully round with a blunt knife. A paste border may be laid round and turned in; or it may be baked, and then cut open and mixed with cream, sugar, and cinnamon. GOURDS : To Preserve. Hang them in the roof of a chamber where there is occasionally a fire, and they wiU keep a long time. GOUT is a painful disease arising without any evident external cause, but for the most part preceded by an unusual aiTection of the stomach. There is also some degree of fever, with pain in the joints, particularly in those of the great toes, which affects the motion of the feet and hands, returning at intervals, and often alternating with affections of the stomach or other internal parts. The only disorder for which gout can possibly be mistaken is rheumatism, and cases may occur where there might be some difficulty in making a just discrimination; but the most certain way of distinguishing them will be to give due consideration to the predisposition in the habit, the symptoms which have preceded, the parts affected, the returns of the disease, and its connection with the other parts of the system—circumstances usually different in the two diseases. In gout the pains generally attack the small joints, and are at the same time less inclined to shift; but when they do they usually seize^ the corresponding limb or some of the viscera ; the parts are redder, and more swollen than in rheumatism ; and the symptoms of in- digestion, which rarely precede rheumatism, are present in a considerable degree for some days previously to the attack of the gout. Rheuma- tism and gout are, however, sometimes com-' binea. In these cases it is neither necessary nor possible to discriminate between the two. The attacks of the latter are chiefly in the spring of the year and the beginning of winter, and the disease seldom appears at an earlier period of life than fx'om thirty-five to^ forty. Where, however, the contrary is the case, it may be supposed to arise in general from an hereditary predisposition, &c. It for the most part attacks men, and such as live well or lead sedentary lives, or are addicted to literary pursuits; those who keep late hours, or who are in the decline of life. It is, nevertheless, met with in females of a full and robust habit of body. Men whose em- ployment requires constant bodily labour, or who live much upon vegetable food, as well as those who use wine and other fermented liquors very sparingly, are not often afflicted with, the gout. The causes which lay the foundation of gout may be enumerated as follows, viz., into those which induce a plethoric state of the body, and those which occasion weakness of the body in general, or of the stomach in particular. Among the latter may be considered intemperance of every kind, late hours, intense study, long want of rest, much grief or anxiety of mind, great sensuality, long-continued fatigue, exposure to cold, particularly by getting wet in the feet, using too freely acidulated liquor, sudden change from a full to a spare diet, excessive evacua- tions, violent passions of the mind, &c.