[ 464 ] EGG ELD -4 rasped lemon-peel; strain and press it; then pour it into a dish, and keep it some time over a moderate fire to catch a little at the bottom ■without burning. Glaze it with powder sugar, and colour it with a hot shovel. EGGS, STUFFED. Take ten or a dozen hard eggs, and cat each in half lengthwise ; take out all the yolks, and pound and rub them through I quenelle sieve ; soak some crumb of bread in milk, and when quite soft press out all the milk; pound and pass it also through a quenelle sieve ; do the same with some good fresh butter ; then take equal quantities of each, mix them together well in the mortar, with the addition of parsley and scallions shred finely; season with salt, pep- per, and nutmeg, and bind the farce with the yolks of eggs. When quite done put a layer about an inch thick on a dish; then put some in each, and cement them together with white of egg; place them in proper order on the farce, set the dish on hot ashes, and cover it with hot ashes also to colour it. EGGS, SWISS. Mi.K 2 ozs. of grated cheese and two of melted butter with six beaten eggs ; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and young onions; fry it very liyhtlij with a little butter in a frying-pan, and serve guite hot. EGGS A LA TRIPE. Boil your eggs hard, take off the shells, and cut them longways in four quarters ; put a little butter into a stew- pan, let it melt, shake in a little flour, and stir it with a spoon; then put in your eggs, throw a little grated nutmeg all over, a little salt, and a good deal of shred pai'sley ; shake your pan round, and pour in a little cream; toss the pan round carefully, so that you may not break the eggs. When your sauce is thick and fine take up your eggs, pour the sauce all over them, and garnish with lemon. EGGS, WHITES OF. Take the whites of twelve eggs, and beat them up with four spoons- ful of rose water, some lemon-peel grated, and a little nutmeg ; sweeten them with sugar, mix them well, and boil them in four bladders ; tie them in the shape of an egg, and boil them hard ; they will take half an hour ; lay them in a dish, and when cold mix half a pint of thick cream, a gill of mountain, and the juice of half an orange together ; sweeten it with fine sugar, and serve it over the eggs. EIDER DOWN. This is the down plucked from her breast by the eider duck (Somateria mollissirna) for covering her eggs. There are two kinds of eider down; the Iwe down, as it is termed, and the dead down; the latter, which is considered to be very inferior in quality, is that taken from the dead bird. The down of superior quality, or live down, is that which the duck strips from herself to cherish her eggs. Jts lightness and elasticity are such, it is asserted that two or three pounds of it squeezed into a ball which may be held in the hand will swell out to such an extent as to fill a case large enough for the foot covering of a bed. It is collected in the following manner:—The female is suffered to lay her five or six eggs, which are about three inches in length, and two in breadth. These, which are very palatable, are taken, and she strips herself a second time to supply the subsequent eggs. If this second batch be abstracted, the female being unable to supply any more down, the male plucks his breast, and his contribution is known by its pale colour. The last deposit, which rarely consists of more than two or three eggs, is always left, for if deprived of this their last hope the bereaved birds forsake the inhospitable place, whereas, if suffered to rear their young, the parents return the following year with their progeny. The quantity of down afforded by one female during the whole period of laying is stated at ^ lb. neat, the quantity weighing nearly 1 lb. before it is cleansed. Of this down Troil states that the Iceland Company sold in one year (1750) as much as brought £850 sterling, besides what was sent to Gliickstadt. ELATERIUM, or Squirting Cucumber {Mo- mordica elalerium). The dose of good elaterium as it occurs in commerce is about one grain, or it is better to give it only to the extent of half a grain at a time, and to repeat that dose every hour until it begins to operate. It is probably, when thus managed, the best water-expelling cathartic which we possess. It differs, however, from the class of remedies to which it belongs, for it excites the pulse and the whole animal system, so as to produce a considerable degree of febrile action. It was strongly recommended by Sydenham, Lister, and Hoffman, and all their contemporaries and immediate successors, as a valuable remedy in dropsy ; but, in consequence of some fatal results from its improper applica- tion, it was driven from practice with a violence that marks prejudice r.ither than conviction. For its restoration to medicine we are indebted to Dr. Ferriar, of Manchester, who used it with great success in the cure of water on the chest (hydrothorax). ELDER ELECTUARY. Take 5 lbs. of the juice of elderberries and 1 lb. of good brown sugar or honey ; let them simmer gently till like thick syrup, and take a spoonful mixed with a little water at bedtime. This preparation is good for a cough, and keeps well. ELDER, EXTRACT OF. For medicinal purposes the extract of elder may be made by reducing the juice and pulp without sugar, and preserving in pots. ELDER OINTMENT. Mix a large handful