[ 379 ] CRO CRO In maniacs, and in cases where the administra- tion of bulky medicines is extremely difficult, it would seem to offer a decided advantage. It has been usually given in this country, in the pro- portion of from one to two drops, in the form of pills. Dr. Nimmo's discovery with respect to the chemical composition of the oil very naturally suggested to him the mode of administering it in the form of an alcoholic tincture {Tinctura Tiglii), and he has found by experience that such a preparation furnishes the means of I'eadily apportioning the dose to the various cir<;um- stances of the case. Thus he found that, in administering a tincture in doses equivalent to the number of drops decomposed, the same effects were produced as have been attributed to the entire oil. In making such a tincture we should employ a fluid drachm of rectified spii'it to two drops of the oil. They should be digested for some time, and then filtered. With all the care that can be used a certain portion of the spirit will be evaporated, and half a fluid drachm of the tincture may be thus considered as nearly equivalent to a drop and a half of the oil. CROUP. This disease generally creeps on in an insidious and almost imperceptible manner, beginning first with a hoarseness and wheezing, short dry cough, and sometimes a rattling in the throat when asleep. Among the other symptoms characterising this disease the most conspicuous is that of the voice in speaking and in coughing, acquiring a shrill and peculiar sound similar to the crowing of a cock, or to the noise made by a fowl when caught in the hand. It most frequently terminates fatally about the fourth or fifth day, when the patient expires from suffocation. The croup is mostly confined to children be- tween the age of three and thirteen years, and prevails most in low and moist situations, and on the seashore. Anything causing inflamma- tion may bring it on. It is supposed to be contagious, and prevails epidemically. This disease may be distinguished from the convulsive asthma of children by the following signs :—In croup the cough is frequently sing- ing in our ears, whereas in the latter there is little or no cough. In the first there is seldom or never any remission, whereas, in the convul- sive or acute asthma, this is one of the most striking phenomena of the disease, and it is attended with some evacuation, such as belching, vomiting, or purging. In croup the pulse is strong, with much febrile heat, the urine is high coloured, and the voice shrill and small. In the convulsive asthma the pulse, though perhaps equally quick, is less full, the urine is limpid, and the voice is croaking and deep. The treatment adopted in this disease is the game as obtains in all those of the inflammatory kind —early bleeding from the jugular vein, and by the application of leeches to the wind- pipe, &c.; emetics in full and nauseating doses, especially ipecacuanha, squills, or tartar emetic. Immediately after bleeding it will be proper to apply a large blister across the throat from ear to ear, keeping it open after it is removed by dressing the part with savine cerate. After this a gentle emetic is recommended, namely take ipecacuanha wine, ^ oz.; oxymel of squills, 3 drachms, of which give the patient a tea-spoon- ful often. Or, tincture of squills, \\ drachm ; oxymel, 5 drachms; distilled water, 1^ oz. A tea-spoonful to be given often until nausea or vomiting be promoted. Great relief will be afforded by this means, in consequence of which a considerable quantity of ropy matter will be brought off. Purgatives of neutral salts or submuriate of mercury are to be given occasionally:—Take sulphate of magnesia (Epsom salts), 3 drachms; infusion of senna (senna tea), l^oz.; syrup of roses, 2 drachms. Make a mixture, and give a table-spoonful as may be required. In all cases of croup the child must be kept nearly upright in bed, to guard against suffoca- tion. Brisk purgatives, in which the submuriate of mercury (calomel) may be an ingredient when the bowels are inactive, are proper, namely, take submuriate of mercury, 3 grains; jalap, 4 to 8 grains; or, rhubarb in powder, 6 grains; calomel, 2 grains. Strong decoction of snake root, frequently taken into the mouth in small quantities, has been successfully used to promote a separation of the films and coagula that form and adhei-e to the windpipe and cells of the lungs, where it has been thought the inflammatory affection in croup is chiefly confined, although the late Drs. Baillie and Cbeyne have asserted the contrary. When the child is threatened with suffocation it will be right to excite sneezing by introducing strong snuff or the compound asarum powder up the nostrils by means of a quill, as well as to cause vomiting by a solution of emetic tartar, or of sulphate of zinc if the patient can swallow. CROUSTADE. Take a loaf of close texture, remove the crust, and cut the crumb I'ound to the size you may require, and about four inches in height; form it into the shape of a cup or basin, and, cutting the outside accord- ing to your taste, put it into a pan with a proper quantity of butter, and brown it. When of a good colour and very dry drain it, take out the inside, and fill it with such articles as you may require. CROUSTADE A LA BECHAMEL. Line the number of custard moulds you may require with a rich puff paste, adding a small quantity