COL [ 341 J COL table-spoonful of fresh lemon juice, and take it while in a state of effervescence. But, if there be only sickness at the stomach without vomit- ing, the patient may drinlc plentifully of camo- mile tea, applying externally to the seat of pain flannels wrung out of a warm decoction of emollient herbs, or a bladder filled with warm water, interposing occasionally frictions with some anodyne liniment, as opodeldoc, &c. When the nausea and vomiting have ceased the patient should take an active purgative to carry off the offending matter, viz.:—Take jalap in powder, i drachm; calomel, 5 grains; and treacle enough to make a bolus or two, to be taken for a dose, assisting the operation by thin gruel or broth. In many cases the stomach is so irritable that it will not retain the medicine. When this occurs the contents of th& intestines must be evacuated by means of mild laxative clysters at first, increasing them afterwards in strength should it be found necessary, viz.:—Take bruised aniseed and camomile flowers, of each 1 oz.; pure water, H pint. Boil them over a slow fire until the water is reduced to 11 ozs.; then strain the liquor, and add Glauber's salts, 6 drachms; castor oil, 1 oz.; or, thin gruel, IS ozs.; Glauber's salts, loz.; olive oil, 1| oz. Mix them for a clyster. To be repeated until a due effect is produced. The second, ov flatulent colic, is marked by a costiveness, pain, soreness, and griphig of the bowels, a rumbling noise, distention of the stomach, desire to vomit, and coldness of the feet and hands. In this species of colic take peppermint water, 4 ozs.; spirit of caraway, 2 ozs.; compound tincture of lavender, i oz. ; tincture of opium, 1 drachm. Make a mixture, and give the patient 2 table-spoonsful every hour; and, if this does not soon afford relief, the above clyster, containing bruised aniseed, may be given every three or four hours, and warm fomentations applied, with flainiels wrung out of them, over the whole belly. Should the clysters not act sufficiently, 1 oz. of the compound tincture of senna, with 2 drachms of the tincture of jalap, may be taken by the mouth. Notwithstanding these means, should the disease increase in violence so as to threaten inflamma- tion of the bowels, the patient should be blooded, put into a warm bath, fomented, and a large blister applied over the seat of the pain. Inflammation of the bowels may be known from colic by the absence or trifling degree of fever in the latter, and by the pain diminishing by pi'essing on the belly. Third, or hijsteric colic, is characterised by nausea and sickness at the stomach, attended with severe spasms, costiveness, and lowness of spirits. In this it is seldom necessary to use evacuants, unless obstinate costiveness prevail. when it will be proper to give some gentle aperient medicine; for example, take rhubarb in powder, 15 grains; spirit of aniseed, 4 drachms; cinnamon water, 1 oz.; tincture of jalap, 3 drachms. To be made into a draught and taken immediately, administering at the same time, every four or six hours, the following clyster:—Take oil of turpentine, 8 drachms ; enough of the yolk of an egg. Mix them to- gether, and add gradually about f pint of thin gruel. Should there be any nausea or vomiting the patient's stomach may be cleansed out with a tea-cupful or two of camomile tea, giving afterwards some antispasmodic mixture, viz.:—• Take water, 4 ozs. ; spirit of sulphuric ether,^ 1 drachm ; fetid spirit of ammonia, \ drachm ; tincture of opium, 60 drops; tincture of castor, I oz.; of which 2 table-spoonsful may be given every three or four hours. When colic rises to a violent height the mo- tion of the intestines is entirely inverted from below upwards—a most dangerous distinction: it obtains the name of iliac -passion. Its most peculiar symptom is vomiting of faecal matter by the mouth, attended with obstinate costiveness and a high degree of infl.ammation, consequently demanding the most prompt interference of medical advice. See Bowels (Pain in), Diae- EHCEA, and Worms. COLLAR BONE. If this be broken let the arm on the same side be supported by a sling, or by resting on the table, and be kept as close to the side and as unmoved as possible until surgical aid can be obtained. COLLARED BEEF. Take a piece of thin flank of beef, and bone it; cut off the skin, and salt it with 2 ozs. of saltpetre, 2 ozs. of sal prunella, 2 ozs. of bay salt, ^ lb. of coarse sugar, and 2 lbs. of common salt. Beat the hard salt very finely, and mix all together ; turn it every day, and rub it well with the brine for eight days; then take it out, wash it, and wipe it dry. Take \ oz. of cloves, \ oz. of mace, 12 corns of allspice, and a nutmeg beaten very finely, with a spoonful of beaten pepper, a large quantity of chopped parsley, and some sweet herbs shred finely. Sprinkle this mixture on the beef, and roll it up very tightly; put a coarse cloth round it, and tie it very tightly with beggar's tape. Boil it in a copper of water, and if it is a large collar it will take six hours boiling; but a small one will be done in five. When it is done take it out, and put it into a press; but if you have not that convenience put it between two boards, with a weight on the uppermost, and let it remain in that state till it is thoroughly cold; then take it out of the cloth, cut it into thin slices, lay them on a dish, and serve them to table. Garnish your diah with raw parsley. COLLARED BREAST OF MUTTON.