BRA BRA [ 1^7 J clothes dipped in warm water to the part. When bleeding at the nose does not happen spontane- ously it may be provoked by putting a straw or any other sharp body up the nostril. Bleeding from the temporal arteries greatly relieves the head; but as this operation cannot always be performed we would recommend in its stead bleeding in the jugular veins. When the patient's pulse and spirits are so low that he cannot bear bleeding with the lancet, leeches may be applied to the temples. These not only draw off the blood more gradually, but, by being applied nearer to the part affected, generally give more immediate relief. The next step will be to direct the head to be shaved, and to apply a large blister over it. Linen cloths wetted with vinegar and water, cold spirituous lotions, diluted ether, or iced water may likewise be kept constantly to the temples and forehead, renew- ing them as they become dry. Gold applied over the seat of the brain by means of a wet towel or other similar medium, will, indeed, in many cases, prove more efficacious than the application of a blister, as this has been ob- served occasionally not only to accelerate the pulee, but also render the patient more ungo- vernable. The feet should be frequently placed in warm water; and to assist in diminishing the determination of blood to the head the patient should be kept as nearly as possible in the erect posture as can conveniently be borne. A dis- charge of blood from the hsemorrhoidal veins is likewise of great service, and ought by all means to be promoted. If the patient has been sub- ject to the bleeding piles, and that discharge has been stopped, every method must be tried to restore it; as the application of leeches to the parts, sitting over the steams of warm water, sharp clysters, or suppositories made of honey, aloes, and rock-salt. If the inflammation of the brain be occasioned by the stoppage of evacuations, either natural or artificial, as the menses, issues, setons, or such like, all means must be used to restore them as soon as possible, or to substitute others in their stead. The patient's body must be kept open by stimulating clysters, or either of the following smart purges : —Take submuriate of mercury, 2 grains ; extract of colocynth, 6 grains. Make 3 pills for a dose. Or, take submuriate of mercury, 6 grains; pow- dered jalap, 1 scruple. Make a cathartic powder; and small quantities of nitre ought frequently to be mixed with his drink. Two or three drachms or more, if the case be dangerous, may be used in the space of twenty-four hours. The feet ought frequently to be bathed in lukewarm water, and soft poultices of bread and milk may be kept constantly applied to them. Though this species of inflammation ought to be treated nearly as other inflammatory dis- orders are, yet more than ordinary care should be used to keep the patient in a state of as much ease, composure, and tranquillity as possible. A strict attention to hints already given will often do more good than the best medicines. It should be considered that a sore will not bear the touch of a feather, and that the nerves of an inflamed brain are still more unfit to endure the least irritation, without torture, and without danger. Even light, sound, or whatever may make a strong impression on the senses, is car- ried with such rapidity and force to the brain as to increase the inflammation, and disorder the veiy organs by which it was conveyed. A docile and sensible nurse is, in such cases, of as much sei'vice as the most enlightened physician. When inflammation of the l)rain is a symptom of some other disease it will not require our using active purgatives. On the contrary, the body should be kept open with gentle aperients or laxative clysters, administered from time to time as occasion may require. In most cases the application of a blister to the neck or be- tween the shoulders will be pi'oper. As a me- dicine the patient may take in both species of this inflammation this diaphoretic bolus every three hours :—Take camphor, 3 grains; anti- monial powder, 5 grains; confection of roses, enough to make a small bolus, washing the bolus down with 3 table-spoonsful of this mix- ture :—Take lemon-juice, H oz.; subcarbonate of ammonia, ^ drachm ; mint water, 1 oz.; pure water, 4 ozs.; nitrate of potash, 1 drachm; syrup of roses, 2 drachms. Make a mixture. BRAIN, WATER ON THE {Hydrocepha- lus). This disease is almost confined exclusively to young children, and is rarely known to show itself beyond the age of twelve or fourteen years, appearing more frequently to arise in those of a scrofulous and rickety habit than in those of a different temperament. It very often attacks in a very gradual manner. One of the earliest symptoms in this disease is the little patient feeling imeasy in raising its head from the pillow, and wishing to lie down again immediately. It frequently commences with languor, pains in the limbs, and headache. The patient is affected with sickness at the stomach, vomiting several times in the course of the day. The pain of the head is usually confined to one side, or extends from just above the eyebrows to the temples ; the eyes are painfully sensible to light; the patient is watch- ful and moans; or, if he sleeps, he grinds his teeth, picks his nose, and often awakes suddenly in a fright; the bowels are costive, and are with difficulty acted upon by the strongest purgatives, &c. These symptoms go on increasing until squinting, convulsions, and dilated pupil come on, and close the scene. Such symptoms, how- ever, are not expected to follow each other in all