BAR BAR [ 67 ] fruit and the cocoa trees; the Russians and Poles produce their shoes worn by the peasantry, twist ropes, and form a variety of mats and other useful articles of the inner bark of the lime tree; the Germans have, for the last twenty years, converted the bark of the common black and white mulberry trees into excellent paper. We will confine our attention here to Peru- vian bark. There are three principal species of this. The tree which yields this celebrated bark is a native of Peru. It was first observed a few miles south of Loxa, a small town on the river Catamayo, nearly in the same meridian with Quito, but in south latitude 4° 1', and at a height of nearly 7000 feet above the level of the sea. The use of this bark in curing inter- mittent fevers was known to the Americans before the conquest of Peru, but they concealed its virtues from the Spaniards in consequence of the detestation in which they held them. It was known, however, to the Corregidor of Loxa in 1638. In that year the lady of Count Cinchon, viceroy of Peru, was afflicted with an obstinate intermittent fever which her at- tendants were unable to cure. The Corregidor of Loxa informed of this sent a quantity of cinchona to the viceroy, assuring him that it would speedily remove the disease of the Coun- tess. In consequence of this information the Corregidor was himself summoned to Lima, in order to regulate the dose, and point out the method of administering the remedy. Some trials being previously made upon other patients, the Countess took the medicine, and was cured. It was this cure that gave the bark celebrity, and made it known in Europe as a remedy for intermittent fevers. The Countess brought large quantities of it to Lima, where it was known by the name of powder of the Countess, and distributed it to all who were afflicted with intermittent fevers. Some months after (pro- bably when Count Cinchon returned to Spain in 1639,) she consigned her whole stock of bark to the Jesuits, who continued for some time to distribute it gratis. Hence it came to be known under the name of Jesuits' bark. The Jesuits afterwards sent a cargo of it to Cardinal de Lugo at Rome, who distributed it with the same success as the Jesuits had done at Lima, and afterwards consigned it to the Apothecaries' Company at Rome. Hence it came to be known in Italy by the name of powder of the Cardinal. It was about this time that Louis XIV., while Dauphin, was cured of an intermittent fever by the use of this bark. As he became king in 1643, it is obvious that the cure must have ; been effected before that period. In 1640, when Count Cinchon had returned to Spain, his physician, Dr. Juan de Vega, who li i! had brought a cargo of it from Peru, sold it publicly in Spain at the rate of 100 reals a pound. The sale continued at this price till most of the cinchona trees in the neighbour- hood of Loxa being exhausted, those whose business it was to collect the bark began to adulterate it by mixing the barks of many other trees. This speedily brought it into such dis- credit, that the price sank to eight reals a pound. 1. The pale bark, which is the kind originally brought from Loxa, in Peru, is the bark of the Cinchona lancifolia. This tree is found chiefly in the neighbourhood of the village of Ayavaca, at a height of about 7000 feet above the level of the sea, where the mean temperature is about 60". It is a lofty and handsome evergreen tree from 30 to 40 feet high, and standing usually single, whereas the other species of cinchona are found in groups. The pale bark is now, comparatively speaking, rare. It is known to the English by the name of crown bark. Two other varieties, probably from distinct species, are known in commerce by the names of Lagartijada (lizard- like), and negrilla (blackish), from the colour of their epidermis. The branches are barked in dry seasons from September to November, and the bark is carefully dried in the sun. The trees frequently die after this operation. The bark arrives in Europe packed in chests made of slips of wood roughly fastened together, and covered with skins. Each chest contains about 200 lbs., well packed, but generally mixed with dust and other foreign matter. The pieces are about 9 inches in length, some of them scarcely one-tenth of an inch in thickness, singly or doubly quilled, the quills being in size from a swan's quill to 1^ inch. Some pieces have a coarser texture, are thicker, and nearly flat It has a chopped, greyish-coloured epidermis, often much covered with lichens. The colour is pale fawn, and, when it is moistened, pale orange. 2. The red bark was introduced into com- merce by Don Sebastian Joseph Lopez Ruiz in 1778. It is considered as the bark of the Cinchona ohlongifolia of Mutis. The tree which yields it is found in the Andes, growing abundantly along the banks of the mountain streams at Riobamba, Chinchao, Cuchero, and Chacahnassi. It rises to a very considerable height, and is covered with smooth, brownish bark. The bark is brought to this country in chests, containing from 100 lbs. to 160 lbs. each. It consists of various-sized pieces, covered with a thin, rough, reddish-brown epidermis. Most of the pieces are flat, though some are partially quilled. Under the epidermis there is an in- termediate layer, which is dark-coloured, com-