CON [ 347 3 CON recovery, and is often vainly forming distant projects of interest and amusement, when death puts a period to his existence. The causes which predispose to this disease are very numerous, among which are an heredi- tary disposition, particularly shape of the body, obvious by a long neck, prominent shoulders, and narrow chest; a tendency to scrofulous com- plaints, indicated by a fine clear skin, fair hair, delicate rosy complexion, large veins, thick upper lip, a weak voice, and great sensibility; certain diseases, such as catarrh, inflammation of the lungs, spitting of blood, small pox, measles; par- ticular employment exposing artificers to dust, such as needle pointers, stone cutters, millers, &c.. or to the former of metals or minerals under a confined and unwholesome air; violent passions, exertions, affections of the mmd, as grief, disappointment, anxiety, or close applica- tion to study without using a proper degree of exercise; playing much on wind instruments; frequent and excessive debaucheries ; late watch- ing, and drinking freely of strong liquors ; great evacuations, as diabetes, excessive venery, im- moderate discharge of the menstrual flux, and continuing to suckle too long under a debilitated state of constitution ; the application of cold, either by too quick a change of apparel, keeping on wet clothes, lying in damp beds, exposing the body too suddenly to cool air when heated by exercise; and by everything, in fact, that gives a considerable check to perspiration, &c. As it is only in the early stage of consump- tion that remedies are likely to be employed with success, the greatest attention should be paid to the first appearance of the symptoms. If spitting of blood be among the first of these the remedies pointed out under that head will be proper, in order to prevent ulceration. When persons of consumptive habits, or born of parents who have the same disposition, are attacked with it at about the age of twenty or sooner, in the spring of the year, everything must be done to prevent the formation of tubercles, and their consequent inflammation and suppuration, as by this means the disease may be kept under for many years. In these cases the treatment consists in bleed- ing from the arm and from the chest, either by means of leeches or cupping, keeping the body open with gentle laxatives, and a spare regimen. When there is any febrile heat, with a cough or pain in the chest, medicines which promote perspiration may be given, such as small doses ii to i grain) of tartarised antimony, or two or three grains of the antimony powder three or four times a day, together with the saline mixture and nitre. The patient's dietshould consist of such things as are easily digested and nutritive, such as light puddings, milk, poached eggs, jellies, and animal broths ; the different kinds of shell fish, such as lobsters, oysters, crabs, prawns, crayfish, &c. Where symptoms are but trifling, and the patient finds any difficulty in abstaining from animal food, he may be allowed such as is of the lightest nature and easiest digestion. Fer- mented and spirituous liquors on no account should be used. Milk is a very valuable remedy in consumption. Asses' milk, to the amount of three or four pints daily, has been productive of considerable benefit, and buttermilk at the commencement of the disease has in many cases done much good. It should be taken sparingly at first, and gradually increased in quantity, to make it sit easily on the stomach. Women's milk has also been re- commended ; but, in consequence of the difficulty of procuring it in sufficient quantity, asses' milk, or that of cows, is obliged to be substituted. The patient, to assist in preventing inflamma- tion of the tubercles in the lungs, should sedu- lously avoid all irritation of the affected part, such as singing, playing on wind instruments, &c.; he should never go into crowded rooms; refrain from placing his body in such positions, either in writing, reading, &c., as may tend to straiten the capacity of the chest, carefully shun- ning all bodily exercises that require much exer- tion, and particularly to guard against exposure to cold. Flannel or calico should be worn next the skin, and worsted or cotton stockings, The cold and variable temperature of the winter in England is the great source of consumption in this country, and when the disease is once formed it contributes greatly to its fatal termination. A warm and uniform temperature in some measure prevents the formation of the disease, and when it has only taken place in a slight degree has a tendency to retard its progress. It is a fact sufliciently known that a warm climate is only beneficial in incipient consumption. In arresting pulmonary inflammation the fox- glove has been extolled by some writers, and in the early stage of the disease, when the powers of the system are not broken down, it will moderate the pulse and diminish the hectic fever. This powerful medicine, however, re- quires to be administered with much caution as well as discrimination. In the early stage of the disease an emetic of from 10 to 15 grains of the sulphate of copper every second or third day in 2 ozs. of water has been attended with good effect. Vomiting soon comes on after it is taken into the stomach, and its effects may be assisted by drinking a few tumblersful of lukewarm water. During the intervals the patient may take two table-spoonsful four times a day of the following mixture :—Dissolve of myrrh 1 drachni, in a mortar, with spirit of pimento, 6 drachms; dis-