CLA CLA [ 309 ] ducted on the same principle as the refining of sugar, although not carried out in every par- ticular. For every 6 lbs. of sugar required to be cla- rified take 1 quart of water, the white of 1 egg, and about half a tea-cupful of bullocks' blood. Less than 1 pint will be sufficient for 112 lbs.; but if very fine, transparent, and colourless syrup is required, use either charcoal finely powdered or ivory black instead of the blood. Put the white of the egg in the water, and whisk it into a froth ; then add either of the articles mentioned and the sugar; place the pan con- taining the ingredients on the stove fire, and stir them well with a spatula until the sugar is dissolved and is nearly boiling. When the ebullition commences throw in a little cold water to check it. This causes the coarser parts to separate more freely, by which means •Ihe whole of the impurities attach themselves in the clarifying matter used. Continue this for about five minutes, using about 1 pint of water for every 6 lbs. of sugar, or more, until you consider the whole of the dross is dis- charged, and there remains a fine clear syrup; then place it by the side of the stove, and care- fully remove with a skimmer the scum which has formed on the top. It may also be taken off as it rises ; but we find it is the best method to let it remain a short time after it is clarified before it is removed, otherwise, if you take it off as it rises, part of the syrup is also taken •with it. When either the charcoal or ivory black is used it must be passed through a filtering bag, made of thick flannel in the shape of a cone, having a hoop round the top to keep it extended, and to which strings are sewn, that it may be tied or suspended in any convenient manner. That which runs out at first will be quite black, and must be returned again into the bag. Con- tinue this operation until it runs fine and clear. If a little lime—about a spoonful—or any other alkali is added to the sugar, with the water, &c., it will neutralise the acid which all raw sugars contain, and they will be found to stand much better after they have been manu- factured, by not taking the damp so soon. Tbis is not generally done by the trade; but it will be found beneficial if practised. Loaf Sugar is clarified by mixing the whites of eggs with water, without any other assist- ance ; for, having been previously refined, it does not require those auxiliaries again to sepa- rate the coarser parts unless it is of inferior quality, or an extra fine syrup, as for bonbons and other fancy articles, is required. When it is necessary to have a very fine, sparkling grain break your lump into small pieces, and put them in a preserving pan, with a suffi- cient quantity of water to dissolve it, in which has been mixed the white of an egg and pow- dered charcoal, as for raw sugar, following those instructions already given. After the sugar has been di-ained from the bag pass some water through, to take off any which may be left in the charcoal, which you can use for dissolving more sugar. The scum should always be reserved, when charcoal or ivory black is not used, to mix with articles of an inferior quality. The best refined loaf sugar should be white, dry, fine, of a brilliant, spai'kling appearance when broken, and as close in texture as possible. The best sort of brown has a bright, sparkling, and gravelly look. East India sugars appear finer, but do not contain so much saccharine matter; yet they are much used for manufac- turing the best sort of common sweetmeats, when clarified, instead of loaf sugar. Degrees of Boiling Sugar. This is the principal point to which the confectioner has to direct his attention, for, if he is not expert in this particular, all his labour and knowledge will be useless; it is the foundation on which he must build to acquire success in his under- takings. There are seven essential points or degrees in boiling sugar. Some authors give thirteen, but many of these are useless, and serve only to show a critical precision in the art, without its being required in practice. However, for exact- ness, we admit of nine, viz.:—1. Small thread, or Petite lisse. 2. Large thread, or Grande lisse. 3. Little pearl, o'c Petite perle. 4. Large pearl, or Grande perle. 5. T]ie blow, or Souffle. 6. The feather, or Grande plume. 1. Ball, or Gros boulet. 8. Crack, or Casse. 9. Caramel. This last degree derives its name from a Count Albufage Caramel, of Nismes, who discovered this method of boiling sugar. The three purposes for which sugar is clarified are Syrup, Crystallisation, and Candy. SvRUP. Under this head are comprised the degrees from the small thread to the large pearl, for at these points the sugar is kept in a divided state, and remains a fluid of an oily consistence. A bottle which contains 3 ozs. of water will contain 4 ozs. of syrup. The method of ascertaining those degrees, according to the usages of the trade, is as follows. Small thread, or Petite lisse. Having placed the clarified syrup on the fire, let it boil a little ; then dip the top of your finger in the boiling syrup, and, on taking it out, apply it to the top of your thumb, when, if it has attained the degree, on separating them a -^imall string will be drawn out a little distance about as fine as a hair, which will break and resolve itself into a drop on the thumb and finger. Large thread, or Grande lisse. Continue tlie