BEE BEE [ 89 ] BEEF. The carcase of the bullock consists of two divisions. The first is the fore-quarter, which contains:— 1. The cheek. 2. The neck or sticking-piece, weighed, undressed, 8i lbs.; hone, after dressing, 10 ozs. 3. The clod. 4. The shin, weighed 9 lbs., undressed; hone, afier dressing, 9^ lbs. 5. The shoulder, or leg-of-mutton piece. 6. The chuck, three ribs. 7. The middle rib, four ribs. 8. The fore-rib, Ave ribs, weighed, undressed, 12lbs.; bone, after dressing, 1^ lb. 9. The brisket. The second is the hind-quarter, which con- tains :— 10. The sirloin, weighed, undressed, 13 lbs.; bone, after dressing, IJlb. Jl. The thiu flank. 13. The rump, weighed, undressed, 20lbs.; bone, after dressing, 4 lbs. 13. The aitch, or edge-bone, weighed, undressed, 11 lbs.; bone, after dressing, IJ lb. 14. The buttock, or round, weighed, undressed, 13f lbs.; bone, after dressing, IJlb. 15. The mouse buttock. 10. The veiny piece. 17. The thick flank, weighed, undressed, 11 lbs.; hone, after dressing, 1J lb. 18. The leg. These are the principal parts, besides which there are the head, the tongue, and the palate ; the entrails consisting of the heart, sweetbreads, kidneys, skirts, and tripe; of which last there are three sorts, the double, the roll, and the reed pipe, which all undergo a necessary process before they are offered for sale. In choosing beef, observe that the young ox flesh has a fine, smooth, open grain, the colour of it a pleasant red, the fat rather white than yellow, and the suet still wliiter and particularly firm. Cow beef is of a coarser grain, and the fat, except when the animal has been fed with oil-cake, is whiter than that of the ox; but the colour of the lean is of a paler red. In both the cow and the ox, if the flesh be young and tender it will be elastic, and on being pressed with the finger will spring up instantaneously ; while old meat, on the contrary, retains the impression for some time afterwards. Bull beef is of a deeper hue, a coarser grain, and a firmer texture than either of the former; in- somuch that it is difficult to make any impres- sion at all upon it with the finger, especially if the animal is old, in which case, also, the flesh smells strong and offensive. Ox beef is the largest and best of all; but in small families heifer beef will be found profitable and excellent, if the animal has been properly fed. Old meat may be quickly known by a horny kind of substance running along the ribs, the hard- ness of which will be in proportion to the age. Ox beef is a wholesome and nutritious food, and readily digested by persons in • health. Rumps and aitch-bones are often bruised by the blows given to the cattle by the drovers; there- fore, as those parts are liable to taint in such cases, be careful not to purchase joints where bruises appear. The flesh of cattle that are hilled when full of food soon spoils. They ought, therefore, to be kept fasting twenty-four hours in winter, and double that time in summer, previous to being killed. The first thing to be observed on receiving pieces of beef is to search for fly-blows, which, in the sirloin, are generally found under the loose fat, and, therefore, this part must be wiped well with a dry cloth, then sprinkled with salt, and the same is also to be rubbed on the chine-bone. Take out the pipe that runs along it, and the kernel in the fat at the chump, and likewise the pith, which places are to be rubbed with salt, as well as the outside and both ends. By attending to these rules it will keep good a week. In treating the ribs, rub the chine-bone with salt; cut out a piece of skirt that is commonly left by the butcher, and rub the inside well with salt, as also the outsides, the two ends, and the tops, after which hang the piece up for use. In the rump there is a kernel at the s.mall end which is generally left by the butcher, but must be taken out and the fat cut off, after which the joints should be wiped quite dry with a cloth, and hung up. That part of the brisket which is usually kept for stewing is the thick end, which must be wiped perfectly dry; and the same care is to be taken of the pieces intended for boiling. Observe that there are two kernels in a round of beef, one in the middle called the popes eye, and the other in the thick fat, both of which should be taken out by the butcher, but if he neglects doing so, the cook must do it immediately, otherwise no salt, in whatever quantity, will keep the meat sweet, particularly in summer. There is a kernel, also, in the middle of the fat of the thick flai'.k which must be cut out, as well as one in the aitch- bone where it is divided from the rump. There is, besides, another kernel, which, according to the different methods of cutting up carcases^