[ 461 ] EGG EGG enough ; tlien potir them on the toast, set the largest bunch of broccoli in the middle, with the other little pieces round about, and garnish the dish with little sprigs of broccoli. This is a pretty side dish or a corner plate. EGGS, BUTTERED. Beat together the yolks of four or five eggs, and put ^ lb. of butter into a basin; then put that in boiling water, and keep stirring it till it is melted ; then put the melted butter and eggs into a saucepan, keep a basin in your hand, and hold the sauce- pan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way ; as it begins to warm pour it into a basin, then back again, and hold it over the fire, keeping it constantly stirring in the saucepan, and pouring it into the basin more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread or in a basin to eat with salt fish or red herrinsrs. EGGS IN CAUL. Cut bits of caul large enough to wrap a poached egg in with a little ready-prepared farce of any kind, minced meat, stewed greens, or onions fried in butter ; roll them up, dip them in yolks of eggs, and bake in the oven about a quarter of an hour in a baking dish. Serve with any sauce you please. EGGS AND CHEESE (in cups). Beat up two spoonsful of rich cream with four yolks of eggs, a heaped spoonful of rasped Parmesan or Dutch cheese, about the size of a walnut of butter, with mace, pepper, and salt. Mix well, fill the cups half full, and put them into the oven. They will take little time. EGGS WITH CREAM. Take a dozen eggs boiled hard, cut them in two, take out the yolks, and rub them through a hair sieve; chop the whites very finely, and make a sauce with cream. When your sauce is vrell done add a lump of butter, and then the chopped whites ; season it well, pour it into your dish, and cover the whole with the yolks ; baste with a little butter, and brown with a red-hot shovel. EGGS WITH CUCUMBERS. Peel some cucumbers, cut them in halves, take out the seeds, slice them and some onions, and steep them in salt and vinegar an hour; drain them in a cloth, and fry them. When a little brown flour them, put in a little water, and let them stew. The sauce must not be very thin. If not tart enough add a little lemon juice, with a little pepper and salt, and lay poached or fried eggs on the cucumbers. EGGS, CUPPED. Put a spoonful of very nice highly-seasoned brown gravy into each cup, and set the cups in a saucepan of boiling water. When the gravy heats drop a fresh egg into each cup, take off the saucepan, and cover it closely till the eggs are nicely and tenderly cooked; dredge them with very fine mace, nut- meg, or salt; serve them in a hot-water plate covered with a napkin, or poach them in butter, vinegar, and spices in cups. EGGS A LA DUCHESSE. Boil a pint and a half of cream with some sugar, orange flowers, crisped almonds, preserved lemon-peel, and almond cakes, all shred finely ; have ready eight eggs, beat up the whites, and put the yolks apart; poach two or three spoonsful at once of the whites in the cream, to appear like eggs poached without the yolks ; let them drain, and dish them one upon the other till they have formed eight upon the dish for table ; put some cream over the fire to reduce to the consistence of sauce, and when you are ready to serve it up put in the eight yolks; thicken over the fire, and pour the sauce over the whites. EGGS, FARCED. Get two cabbage let- tuces, scald them, with a few mushrooms, pars- ley, sorrel, and chervil ; chop them rery small with the yolks of hard eggs, seasoned with salt and nutmeg, and stew them in butter; when they are done enough put in a little cream, and pour them into the bottom of a dish. Take the whites, and chop them very finely with parsley, nutmeg, and salt; lay this round the brim of the dish, and run a red-hot shovel over it to brown it. EGGS, FRENCH. Take some butter and green onions chopped ; put them into a stewpan, stir over the fire with a dust of flour, adding some herb broth ; when it boils skim it, and let it be of a proper thickness; put six hai'd-boited eggs cut into slices in your stewpan, thicken with two yolks of eggs mixed with cream, the juice of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of mustard ; put it in the dish, and serve it up with sippets. EGGS, FRICASSEED. Boil the eggs pretty hard, and slice them ; tlien take a little veal gravy, a little cream and flour, and a bit of butter, nutmeg, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a few pickled mushrooms ; boil all these up, and pour it over the eggs. Put a hard yolk in the middle of a dish, with toasted sippets. EGGS, FRICASSEED (with Onions and Mushrooms). Boil the eggs hard, take the yolks out whole, cut the whites into slips, and some onions and mushrooms; fry the onions and mushrooms ; throw in the whites, and turn them about a little; if any fat, pour it off; flour tlie onions, &c.; add a little good gravy, boil this up, and add pepper, salt, and the yolks. EGGS, FRIED. Slice and fry any kind of bacon, and dish it; have the eggs ready in a disl), and pour them into the gravy; when done tako them up and lay them on the meat. EGGS, FRIED (in Balls). Take a deep frying-pan, pour into it three pints of clarified