GIN GIN C 558 3 put then! into a very moderate oven. If tliin three quarters of an hour will do them, other- wise they must remain till, by testing, the knife comes out bright. GINGERBREAD, FLEMINGTON. Stir together till quite light J lb. of fresh butter and J lb. of brown sugar, and then mix in half a pint of West India molasses. Sift rather less than a pint and a half of flour, beat four eggs till very light, and stir them gradually into the mixture alternately with the sifted flour; add a heaped table-spoonful of ginger and 'a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and stir all well; dissolve a level tea-spoonful of soda or pearlash in as much water as will melt it, then stir it in at the last. Put the mixture into a buttered tin pan, either square or round, set it immediately in the oven, which must be brisk, but not hot, and bake it well. When you think it done probe it to the bottom with a knife, or a broom twig stuck down into tlie centre, and do not take the cake from the oven unless the knife comes out clean and dry. It requires long baking. GINGERBREAD, INDIAN. Take Uozs. of pounded loaf sugar, J lb. of fresh butter, 1 lb. of dried flour, 2 ozs. of pounded ginger, and ol cloves and cinnamon J oz. each. Mix the ginger and the spices with the flour; put tlie sugar and a small tea-cupful of water into a saucepan; when it is dissolved add the butter, and as soon as it is melted mix it with the flour and other things. Work the whole up, form the paste into cakes or nuts, and bake them upon tins. GINGERBREAD, LAFAYETTE. Take five eggs, i lb. of brown sugar, ^ lb. of fresh butter, a pint of sugar-house molasses, l^b. of flour, four table-spoonsful of ginger, two large sticks of cinnamon, three dozen grains of all- spice, three dozen cloves, and the juice and grated peel of two lemons. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, beat the eggs very well, pour the molasses at once into the butter and sugar, add the ginger and other spices, and stir all well together. Put in the egg and flour alternately, stirring all the time ; stir the whole very hard, put in the lemon at the last, and when the whole is mixed stir it till very light. Butter an earthen pan, or a thick tin or iron one, put the gingerbread into it, and bake it in a moderate oven an hour or more according to its thickness. Take care that it does not, burn. Or you may bake it in small cakes or little tins. Its light- ness will be much improved by a small tea- spoonful of pearlash dissolved in a tea-spoonful of vinegar, and stirred lightly in at the last. Too much pearlash will give it an unpleasant taste. If you use pearlash you must omit the lemon, as its taste will be entirely destroyed by the pearlash. You may substitute for the lemon some raisins and currants, well floured to prevent their sinking. GINGERBREAD, LIGHT. Take three cups of molasses, five of flour, one of sugar, three eggs, and a tea-spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a cup of sour cream; work tlie sugar with J lb. of butter; beat two dozen cloves, and put them in with two table-spoonsful of ginger; mix the whole together, and bake in shallow pans or cups. GINGERBREAD, NEW YORK. Take one quart of molasses, 6 ozs. of butter, 1 oz. of ginger, I oz. of pearlash, one pint of milk, and three eggs. Use as much flour as will make it the thickness of pound cake. GINGERBREAD NUTS. Take 4 lbs. of flour, ^ lb. of sifted sugar, 1 oz. of caraway seeds, ^ oz. of ginger pounded and sifted, 6 ozs. of fresh butter, and 2 ozs. of candied orange- peel cut into small slices; then take 1 lb. of treacle or honey, a gill of cream, and make them warm together; mix it with all the in- gredients into a paste, and let it lay six hours ; then roll it out, malie it into nuts, and bake them in a moderate oven. GINGERBREAD, OATMEAL. Sift 4 lbs. of oatmeal, and mix with it 4 lbs. of treacle, i lb. of brown sugar, the same quantity of melted butter, and f oz. of powdered ginger. Work all well together, let it remain for twenty- four hours, and then make it into cakes. GINGERBREAD, RICH SUGAR. Take 1 lb. of flour, f lb. of sugar, |lb. of butter, four eggs, and a glass of brandy or rose water. GINGERBREAD, ROLL. Take 3 lbs. of flour, 2 lbs. of sugar, 1 lb. of butter, seven eggs, a tea-spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a cup of milk, and a cup of ginger. Roll it out very thin on tin sheets. It will bake in ten or fifteen minutes. GINGERBREAD, SOFT SUGAR. Take 2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of butter, six eggs, a large tea-cupful of milk (sour if preferable), a tea-spoonful of saleratus, half a nutmeg, and half a large tea-cupful of ginger. GINGERBREAD, SPICED. Sift into a deep pan l^lb. of flour, and cut up in it ^Ib. of the best fresh butter; rub them together with your hands till thoroughly incorporated, then add i lb. of brown sugar crushed finely with the rolling-pin, and a table-spoonful of mixed spice, consisting of equal quantities of powdered cloves, mace, and cinnamon; also a table-spoonful of ground ginger, and two table- * spoonsful of caraway seeds. Mix the whole together, and wet it with a pint of West India molasses; dissolve a small tea-spoonful of pearlash or soda in a very little warm water, and mix it into the other ingredients; spread