[ 523 ] FOW FOW joined in the middle. The throat should be cut off about two joints from its ccmmencement, leaving sldn enough to turn over the back. Make a slit in the apron, and tuck the rump through it. Fowls for roasting are trussed as follows :— Extend the legs on each side of the bird, only cut off the toes, and run a skewer through each foot to keep them at a proper distance. In some cases the feet should be scalded, and the outside scaly skin taken off. Make a slit in the skinny part of each pinion; through one thrust the liver, and through the other the gizzard ; turn the top of the pinion over the back, and run a skewer through the first joint of each wing, through the body to the other wing. For boiling the under part of the thigh must be cut off, and the stump tucked into a slit made on each side of the belly. Before dressing singe off the hairs of the fowl -with a piece of white paper, and dredge it lightly with flour. The head of a capon is sometimes twisted under the wing, FOWLS, BECHAMEL OF. Put half a dozen spoonsful of bechamel and a piece of jelly into a saucepan ; let it boil, and stir it con- stantly with a wooden spoon. Take the remains of some roasted fowls, and, having minced it very small, put it into the bechamel; stir it lightly, and then pour it into a silver dish; beat up the white of an egg, spread it over the mince, and strew on it grated bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese; pour a little melted butter over the whole, and colour it with a salamander. FOWLS, BOILED. White-legged poultry should always be selected for boiling, as they are of a better colour when dressed than any others. Truss them firmly and neatly, with the legs drawn into the bodies, and the wings twisted over the backs ; let them be well covered with water, which should be hot, but not boil- ing, when they are put in. A full-sized fowl will require about three quarters of an hour from the time of its beginning to simmer, but young chickens not more than from twenty to twentyr five minutes. They should be very gently boiled, and the scum removed with great care as it gathers on the surface of the water. Either of the following sauces may be sent to table with them :■—Parsley and butter, bechamel, English white sauce, oyster, celery, or white mushroom sauce. The fowls are often dished with small tufts of delicately boiled cauliflower placed round them, or with young vegetable marrows, scarcely larger than an egg, merely pared and halved after they are dressed. White sauce must be served with both of these. The livers and gizzards are not at the pi*esent day usually served in the wings of boiled fowls. When they are not so the livers may be sim- mered for four or five minutes, then pressed to a smooth paste with a wooden spoon, and mixed very gradually with the sauce, which should not boil after they are added. FOWLS, COLLOPS OP. Take some puff paste, roll it out very thin, lay on half of it, and at intervals some small pieces of quenelle farce; moisten the paste round each portion, and fold the remainder over it; press it down, and then either with a paste cutter or a knife cut it in semicircles ; fry them, and serve with bunches of fried parsley. FOWLS WITH CRAYFISH SAUCE. Prepare and cook your fowls; put into a stew- pan four spoonsful of reduced veloute, and about the size of an egg of beurre d'ecnvisse ; pass it over the fire, and work it; put it into a dish, and lay the fowls over it, FOWLS, CURRIED (1), To make a dish of cuny for five or six persons take one large or two small fowls, cut them into pieces, and put them in salt and water until the other ingredients are ready. Take two table-spoonsful of powdered ginger, one table-spoonful of fresh turmeric, a few cloves, some mace, cardamom seeds, Cayenne pepper, a dessert-spoonful of black pepper, and salt to your taste ; put these ingi'edients into a mortal", and add eight large onions ; bruise the spices and onions together until they form a paste, and then brown the chicken in butter. Put three pints of water into a saucepan, and when it boils throw in the paste; when this is dissolved put in the chicken, and boil it. When the meat is done the curry is ready for the table. Rice must be served in a separate dish, FOWLS, CURRIED (2). A readier method is to cover each piece of poultry or game in a mixture of flour and curry powder; then fry them with sliced onions in butter till brown ; put all into a stewpan, with boiling water to cover, and simmer about two honi's. FOWLS DEVONPORT FASHION. Let young fowls hang a night; take the livers, hearts, and most tetider parts of the gizzards shred very small, with half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, with pepper, salt, and mace according to taste. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks very closely to prevent the water getting in; boil them in salt and water till almost done, drain them, and put them into a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of butter to brown them. Serve with melted buttei', and a spoonful of any catsup you please in the dish. FOWLS' LEGS : To Dress. Cut the legs and wings of fowls that have been left from a former dinner; chop thyme, parsley, shallot, and mushrooms; mix them with bread crumbs