[ 318 ] CLY CLY are liquid remeclies introduced into the larger intestines or rectum. The most usual clvstering machines are those consisting simply of the bladder of a hog, sheep, or ox, to which an ivory- pipe is fastened with packthread. A more con- venient and durable sort is prepared of India rubber instead of a bladder, though the French and Germans employ in preference a long pewter eyringe, by which the liquor may with more ease and expedition be drawn in, and likewise more forcibly expelled than from a bladder. Both methods, however, are in many instances liable to great objections, especially the former, which cannot be administered without the assistance of another person, even though the patient should possess sullicient strength and dexterity to per- form the operation. Clysters form a very important class of medi- cines, which, if properly understood amd applied, might be effectually substituted for many reme- dies swallowed by the mouth to the detriment of the stomach, as well as the whole anim^al economy; for nature never intended that the receptacle of nourishment should become the laboratory of drugs, the local effects of which, sooner or later, cannot fail to impair digestion, and lay the foundation of more serious evils than those deluded patients vainly imagined to remove. Clysters not only serve to evacuate the con- tents of the belly in cases of obstinate costive- iiess, but also to convey into the system medicinal preparations of great activity. Thus opium, the Peruvian bark, &c., when they cannot be taken by the mouth, may be given in much larger doses, and with less danger; nay, the most nutritive ansd strengthening liquids may in this manner be administered to persons unable to swallow, so that their lives may be supported for many months, and even years, by means of clysters alone. In short, it may without hesita- tion be affirmed that injections are more con- formable to the intricate functions of the animal body, and doubtless safer than the introduction of medicines by the stomach. Although clysters should never be adminis- tered too hot or too cold, yet there are certain complaints accompanied with such debility of the larger intestines and the abdominal muscles as renders the application of cool liquids some- times necessary. Such cases, however, must be determined by the experienced practitioner. In general, thereforOrthese remedies are given in a tepid or lukewarm state, that is, from 80° to 96° of Fahrenheit's scale. The quantity used for adults is from half a pint to a pint; and for children, according to their age, from two or three spoonsful to half a pint. In administering a clyster attention should be paid to the quantity; for if too abundant, by occasioning over-fulness of the rectum, it is apt to excite an unnecessary degree of distention, and consequently to produce too much irritation in the internal membrane of the intestine which receives it. In affections where the intestines are in a state of irritation a stimulating clyster might produce much mischief. It must not be forgotten that a simple clyster ought to precede a stimulating one. By such practice the large intestines are disencumbered, and room is left for the medicaments to operate on the upper por- tion of the intestinal canal. Clysters act on the interior of the rectum and colon, and their in- fluence is afterwards extended to the small intestines. The advantage principally gained by this class of remedies is the evacuation of the faecal matter contained in the large intestines. Simple water is sufficient to produce this effect, and it is generally this liquid which is used when we would only empty the colon and rectum. The object of the medicinal clyster is a subsequent operation which requires great attention. Emollient clysters are composed of gelatinous and oily articles, as the decoction of the roots and leaves of the marsh-mallow, linseed, barley, starch, calves' feet and flesh, hartshorn shavings, &c. In the exercise of our daily functions these clysters do not create sudden changes worth noticing, but they insure in all the organs a perfect abatement, which tends to lessen their activity, and which, in diseases caused by an excess of vital force by a too great agitation of the blood, brings on a very remarkable calm. Very useful assistance is to be met with in all chronic affections in a dry, irritable constitu- tion. They agree with people who are subject to spasmodic affections within the abdomen. It is to them we must have recourse to combat active constipation, that is to say, that which retains an excess of heat or inflammatory excite- ment in the large intestines. We chiefly adopt the form of clyster termed emollient. It is eminently efficacious in pro- moting the operation of a purgative medicine, to prevent griping pain, and to render irritating matter which remains to be evacuated inoffen- sive. Its laxative power moderates the in- tensity of diseased secretions, and concurs in leading to a favourable issue. Sydenham and the most eminent practitioners prescribed the use of it in similar circumstances. In the case of a continued constipation it is an error to believe that a clyster produces the desired evacuation; for this remedy, not attack- ing the seat of the malady, becomes useless and even dangerous if too often renewed. Thus it is better to abandon it in this case, and re- turn again to purgation. Simple Clyster. Take 1 pint of cheese when