DOG DIU [ m ] Other recipes will be found under the names of the liquids distilled. DIURETICS. A term applied to those medi- cines which increase the secretion of urine in the liidneys. The use of diuretics, in general, is indicated by the following circumstances:—■ 1. An interrupted or diminished discharge of urine; but as this complaint may arise from a great diversity of causes, such as spasms, acri- mony of the fluids, relaxation of the solids, pletliora, &c., great circumspection is necessary in the choice of medicines properly adapted to the nature of the case. 2. A natural tendency of the constitution to evacuate the morbid matter of a particular dis- ease by this passage, the symptoms of which are a frequent inclination to maiie water, and a dark, turbid, and copious urine. 3. An earthy, alkaline, scorbutic quality of the fluids. 4. An abundance of aqueous humours in the body in general, or au exU'avasation of them in particular parts. 5. A local accumulation of impurities in the urinary passages. On the contrary, diuretics should never be re- sorted to in the following cases :— 1. In diabetes, or an immoderate and long- continued evacuation of urine. 2. When this fluid is mingled with blood. 3. In inflammations of the kidneys and bladder. 4. In violent spasms, when there is reason to apprehend that stones are confined, or other organic defects prevail, in the urinary canal. 5. In those profuse states of perspiration termed critical. 6. When the patient's body is already defi- cient in aqueous humours. In the same proportion as we make use of thin diluent li(iuors the quantity of urine may be either increased or diminished. Frequent drinking of such watery beverage is, thei'efore, one of the mildest diuretic remedies. This effect may be considerably promoted by the addition of such substances as specifically act upon the kidneys. To this class belong all the mineral waters containing saline ingredients, as well as the juices of mild summer fruit mixed with water, and particularly the sap extracted from the birch tree. Those who are under the influence of diuretic medicines ought to observe a cool rather than a warm regimen, because heat promotes perspira- tion, and lessens the secretion of urine. During the use of such remedies considerable benefit may be obtained by conjoining them with those articles of vegetable nutriment which naturally operate on the kidne^-s. Of this kind are the tops of asparagus and hops, the sweet cicely, lettuce, parsley, celery, all the subacid fruits, such as cherries, currants, raspberries, straw- berries, grapes, mulberries, apricots, peaches, &c. Besides these we possess various and more powerful diuretics among plants ; for instance, the horseradish, onions, and garlic, neither of which, however, ought to be indiscriminately taken. One of the most efficacious remedies of this description is the expressed juice of the common radish, mixed with sugar to the con- sistence of a thin syrup, and taken in doses of one or two spoonsful every three or four hours, or oftener. The medicines which are powerfully diuretic are acetate, nitrate, and bitartrate of potash; oils of cajeput, copaiba, juniper, and turpentine; sweet spirits of nitre, decoction of common broom leaves, and many others. DIXON'S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS. Pound together aloes, I drachm ; powdered rhubarb, 9 scruples; scammony, ^ drachm ; tartar emetic, 10 grains. Make into a mass with syrup of l)uckthorn, and divide into forty-eight pills. Take two at bedtime. DOG. This most useful, sagacious, and faithful friend of man usually lives to the age of fourteen or fifteen years, and seldom survives twenty. The females breed during the first year, and produce from six to twelve puppies, after a gestation of about nine weeks. Those of a small size bring forth five, four, and some- times only two. The whelps are blind, and can- not open their eyes till the tenth or twelfth day. In the fourth month they lose some of their teeth, which are soon succeeded by others. Pkopkr Managemknt of Dogs. As these are at all times very valuable animals it is a matter of some importance to take care of their health. This depends much on their diet and lodging. The frequent cleaning of their kennels and giving them fresh straw for their couch are highly necessary ; or, during the summer, deal shavings may be substituted for straw, as the shavings will prevent the breeding of fleas. If dogs be rubbed with chalk, and brushed and combed once or twice a week, they will thrive much better. The chalk will clear their skin from all greasiness. and they will be less liable to the disorder called mange. Dogs are of a very hot nature. Hence they should always be provided with clean water, that they may drink when thirsty. With respect to food carrion is by no means proper for them, as it must hurt their sense of smelling, in which their excellence in a great measure consists. Barley meal, the grossest part of wheaten flour, or both mixed together with broth or skinuned milk, afford very wholesome nourishment. On account of the sanguine constitution of these