L 560 GLA GLA The cylinder, thus open at one end, is returned to the mouth of the furnace, where it is cut by the aid of cold water, after which it is gradually heated on an earthen table, in order to unfold its length, while the workman with an iron tool alternately raises and depresses the two halves of the cylinder. By this process the latter ac- commodates itself to the same flat form, in which it is again heated, cooled on a copper table, hardened twenty-four hours in the annealing furnace, and afterwards preserved for use. Window glass is divided into various sorts, the principal of which are :— 1. Crown glass, which is the clearest and most expensive. The best window glass is made of white sand, 60 lbs.; purified pearlash, 30 lbs.; saltpetre, 15 lbs.; borax, 1 lb.; and arsenic, ^ lb. These materials are melted in the manner before mentioned, and if the glass should assume a dusky yellowish hue a suffi- cient quantity of manganese must be added to remove that defect. 2. Newcastle glass, which is most commonly used in England. It is of an ash colour, and frequently speckled, streaked, and otherwise blemished. Its preparation consists of white sand, 60 lbs.; unpurified pearlash, 25 lbs. ; common salt, 10 lbs.; arsenic, 21bs.; and man- ganese, 2 ozs. 3. Phial glass is an intermediate kind between flint and the common bottle or green glass. The better sort is made of white sand, 120 lbs.; unpurified pearlash, 501bs.; common salt, lOlbs.; arsenic, 5 lbs.; and manganese, 5 ozs. The com- position for green or common phial glass con- sists of the cheapest white sand, 120 lbs.; wood ashes well burnt and sifted, 80 lbs.; pearlash, 20 lbs.; common salt, 15 lbs.; and arsenic, 1 lb. 4. The common bottle or green glass is pre- pared from any kind of sand fused with wood ashes, to which may be added the clinkers of forges. Flate glass is the last and most valuable kind, and is thus called from its being cast in plates or large sheets. It is almost exclusively em- ployed for mirrors or looking-glasses, and for the windows of carriages. It is composed of white sand cleansed, 60 lbs.; purified pearlash, 25 lbs.; saltpetre, 15 lbs.; borax, 7lbs.; and if a yellow tinge should appear in the glass a small quantity of manganese and arsenic is added in equal proportions. Plate glass was formerly blown, but that method having been found veiy inconvenient, casting was invented; namely, the liquid metal is conveyed from the furnace to a large table, on which it is poured, and all excrescences or bubbles are immediately removed by a roller that is swiftly passed over it. It is then an- nealed in the manner already referred to. The last process is that of grinding, which is performed by machinery Glass is so remarkably elastic that if the force with which glass balls strike each other be computed at 16, that with which they recede from their elasticity will be nearly 15. Hence we have seen glass wigs, and even glass hnishes. If glass be exposed to the influence of dew it becomes moist, which does not happen either with silver or any other metal; and if a goblet or other drinking glass be filled with watei', and rubbed on the brim with a wet finger, it will im- part musical notes, higher or lower, in propor- tion as the glass contains more or less of that fluid. It likewise possesses considerable elec- trical properties, and is therefore frequently employed in experiments on electricity. It is a good plan to prepare glass which will be used to hold hot water by boiling it, which is effected by putting the articles into a kettle of cold water over the fire, letting them just boil, then taking the kettle off, and allowing them to remain in the water till cold. Ground glass may be imitated by pasting upon it white tissue paper. GLASS : To Mend. See Cement. ' GLASS PANES : To Remove. To effect this easily, rub some soft soap upon the putty, which in a few hours will usually be rendered soft. If this fails put some rags dipped in a strong solution of caustic potash upon the putty, and keep them wetted with it for three or four hours. GLASS PAPER is coarser than either sand paper or emery paper. It is, like them, used for scouring metallic surfaces, and is formed by sprinkling powdered glass upon paper Avetted with glue. GLASS, STORM. This meteorological in- strument is formed of a glass tube about an inch in diameter, closed at one end, filled with the following mixture, and then the open end covered with a piece of bladder. A Cologne- water bottle will answer as a substitute for a glass tube. Camphoi', 2 drachms; nitre, 1^ drachm; sal ammoniac, ^ drachm ; and rectified spirit of wine, 2 ozs. Mix until all are dis- solved. White flocks of the camphor float in the mixture, and these rise or fall previously to a change of weather. GLASSWARE, PACKING. Procure some straw or hay to pack the articles in, and if they are to be sent a long way, and are heavy, the hay or straw should be a little damp, which will pre- vent them slipping about. Let the largest and heaviest things be always put undermost in the box or hamper. Let there be plenty of straw, and pack the articles tightly; but never attempt to pack up glass or china which is of much consequence till it has been seen done by some