CAR [ 242 ] CAR of mushrooms, garlic, or anything else you may like; blanch them in boiling water and salt and butter, take them out and put them into a stew- pan with stock or consomme and fine sugar. Stew it to a glaze, and if your sauce be not thick enough, add a little butter mixed with flour, herbs, and sauce tournee. Serve with fried CI'lists CARROT MARMALADE. This head- ing will no doubt excite curiosity, which will not probably decline when we state that the carrot marmalade was invented by a celebrated English physician, as an excellent confection to be used at the breakfast-table by persons of a scorbutic habit:—Take any quantity of carrots, those to be had in the months of September and October are the best. Wash them thoroughly in cold water, and cut off tlie tops and tails. Then scrape them well, wash them again, and dry them. Cut them into pieces about two inches in length, dividing the whole cir- cumference into four parts, if the carrots are large, and into two or three if they are small, taking care to throw away any part that is de- cayed. Put these bits into a pan with as much water as will prevent the bottom of the pan from burning its contents, cover them close, and let them stew over a moderate fire until they are tender and fit for the purpose we are now going to mention. Mash them thoroughly, and pass them through a hair sieve. Then prepare and clarify a syrup, using for every pound of pulp 1 lb. of sifted sugar and | pint of water. Clarify it, and boil it up until it adheres to the spoon. Put in the pulp, boil it up according to rule, evaporating the moisture until it forms a fitting marmalade, then put it into pots. This marmalade will keep any length of time. We have seen some of it two years old which was excellent. _ CARROT PUDDINGS. Boil a large carrot «till tender, then bruise it in a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit powder, 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, a pint of cream, a little ratafia, a large spoonful of orange-flower water or rose water, a quarter of a nu.tmeg, and 2 ozs. of sugar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste; turn it out and serve with ?ugar over. CARROT RAGOUT. Cut some carrots about two fingers in length, sharpening them round; boil them a quarter of an hour in water, and then put them in a stewpan with some good stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When done add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, and serve the ragout with any dish you please. CARROT SAUCE. Cut the red part of a small carrot into dice, boil them in a little of your best stock gravy till they come to a glaze, then add cullis according to the quantity required. CARROT SOUFFLE. Make a thick puree of carrots, and instead of broth use water, in which put a great deal of sugar, half a spoonful of flour, a little salt, and a good bit of butter. Let all this boil till very tender, then put in the yolks of 6 eggs, and mix all well together. The moment you are ready to send to table beat the whites of the eggs, which throw in with the rest, and put it into the oven. CARROT SOUP. Put some beef bones with 4 quarts of the liquor in which beef or a leg of mutton has been boiled, 2 large onions, I turnip, pepper, and salt, into a stewpan, and stew for three hours. Have ready 6 large carrots, scraped and cut thin; strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth; then boil the pulp with the soup, which must be as thick as pea soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the car- rots through. Make the soup the day before it is to be used; add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yellow. CARROT, STEWED. Half boil the carrots, then scrape them nicely, ajid cut them into thick slices. Put them into a stewpan with as much milk as will barely cover them, a very little salt and pepper, and a sprig or two of chopped parsley. Simmer them till they are perfectly tender, but not broken. When nearly done add a piece of fresh butter rolled in flour. Send them to the table hot. Carrots require long cooking. CARROTS: To Boil. They should be washed and cleaned well, but not scraped. An hour will suffice to boil young and early ones, which should be dressed whole; but old ones ought to be cut in two, and will take from an hour and a half to two hours and a half. When done rub off the outside with a coarse cloth, slice them into two or four lengths, according to the size. Try them with a fork. Cold carrot with cold beef is much relished by many persons. CARyiNG: Beef, Bkisket of. This is always boiled, and cut in the direction a h quite dovai to the bone. The outside slice, which should be taken off pretty thick, ought never to be offered to any one. The fat cut from this slice is firm and gristly; a softer kind may be found underneath.