[ 416 ] DIN DIN DINNER, ENGLISH (fob Ten or Twelve). White soup, cod's head and shoulders crimped, succeeded by saddle of mutton that has hung a fortnight, and boiled turkey or chickens top and bottom. The two middle dishes should be tongue highly glazed and heef a la mode. The side dishes should be curry, sweetbreads with white sauce, lamb cut- lets breaded, and patties. For the second course a couple of pheasants and snipes for the top and bottom. The snipes to be removed, and an omelette take their place. For the middle dishes gooseberry tart and a soujfle. The side dishes, jelly, blanc-manger, tipsy cake, and French pastry. You will see by this bill of fare that much of the second course can be prepared the day before, which, unless you have a large establishment, is a great advantage. The White Soup. Take a knuckle of veal, four large onions sliced, a carrot, three turnips, a head of celery cut up, some white pepper, and a little salt; boil all together the day before for some hours in a closely covered saucepan, strain it off, and the next morning you will find it in a jelly; skim the fat off, and you have the stock ready for any white soup you may require. If it is to be a simple " white soup " you must thicken it in the following manner:—Take a stale slice of white bread, and boil it till quite smooth in a little of the stock ; ■ then add four dozen almonds pounded very smoothly, and half a pint of ci'eam; warm this altogether with a little spice, but do not let it boil after the cream is in. When this soup is ready to send up stir the thickening into it, and you will find it very good. ' If you wish artichoke or celery soup you have only to boil the vegetables till quite soft, pass them through a sieve, and add them to the stock instead of the " thickening." Cod's Head and Shoulder. The only re- mark necessary for the cod's head and shoulder is that it should be " crimped," and served with oyster sauce. The water should boil before the fish is put in, and to every six quarts of water allow l^lb. of salt. A good-sized head will take about half an hour to dress. The fish should be laid on a napkin, and the dish gar- nished with slices of lemon. In many houses the fish is now covered with a napkin nicely folded instead of a cover. If you have silver dishes with hot water under them it saves the cook some trouble to have them on the table before dinner is an- nounced, taking care that the water is quite boiling. The side dishes are sweetbreads, cuiTy, lamb chops, and patties. - The Sweetbreads must be soaked for three hours in warm water; then blanch them for four minutes in boiling water, and stew them in a rich white sauce until they are quite tender. Three good-sized sweetbreads are sufficient for a dish, and you may either cut them in half before putting them on the dish, or send them up whole. If they are cut it must be doue with a veij sharp knife, or they will look untidy. CuRRT can be made with the remains of any cold joint; but, if easily procured, we prefer a rabbit curry to any other. It absorbs the flavour of the powder better than anything else. The following receipt for making it was given by a person who had lived much in India, and is always much liked. The receipt may be sent to a chemist you can depend on; but it will be much cheaper to buy the articles and make it at home. The only art in making it is to pound and sift it very finely:—Coriander seed, 4 ozs.; white pepper, 1 oz.; Cayenne pepper, J oz.; cumin seed, f oz.; turmeric, 2 ozs.; and dried chillies, ^ oz. Pound all the ingredients together, and sift them through fine muslin. Keep the powder closely corked and in a dry place. The rabbit must be cut into small pieces frea from bone, which put into a stewpan, with two large onions, one apple cut into small dice, and half the juice of a lemon; when nicely browned add two large tea-spoonsful of the powder, a little floui', and half a pint of rich stock; cover very closely, and stew it till quite tender. Have ready some rice boiled thus:—To each tea- cupful of rice add two of water and a little salt; let it boil twenty minutes without stirring it, then set it by the side of the fire, closely covered, for a quarter of an hour, and the steam will finish it. Put this rice round your dish, leaving room in the centre for the curry. Be very careful it is sent to table " piping hot." Patties should be served with a doily at the bottom of the dish. The number sent to table depends on the size of your cutters: six is a good number. The best pasting for them is the following:—1 lb. of dried and sifted flour, half the juice of a lemon, and the yolk of one egg; mix with a very little cold water, roll it out, and lay on the paste ^ lb. of lard and ^ lb. of butter. It must be rolled out eight or ten times, and at each turn add some of the butter and lard. Touch it as little as possible. The patties can be filled with any meat you please ; but whatever it may be it is better pounded in a mortar, and it must be highly seasoned. Add a tea-spoonful of Worcestershire sauce or tomato sauce to the forcemeat; indeed, to any made dish it is a great improvement. The Lamb Chops must be cut from the neck, the bone cut veiy short, and the meat nicely trimmed; season with pepper and salt, egg them once, and dip them into very finely sifted bread crumbs; beat them gently into a good