[ 411 '] DEV DES root about three inches long, and fix them upright to the roll of paste on the edge ; make gravel walks of shot comfits round the dish, and set small figures in them; roll out some paste, and cut it open like Chinese rails; bake it, fix it on either side of the gravel walks with gum, and form an entrance whei'e the Chinese rails are with two pieces of eryngo root for pillars. DESSERT. The following suggestions ai'e from " The Butler," published by Messrs. Houlston and Stoneman:—Put on the top, middle, and bottom dishes before the sides; but as the dishes for this course are usually smaller, and frequently more in number, they should be put more in the centre of the table, aud closer together than in the other courses The centre dish is usually a plain or orna- mented Savoy or other cake on an elevated stand or high dish, or a vase of flowers or wax fruit; the top and bottom dishes are elevated or high dishes, in which are usually placed a melon, or pine apple, or bunches of grapes; the side dishes are filled with apples, pears, oranges, strawberries, or other fruits in season, and olives; also compotes (fruit preserved in syrup), dried and crystallised fruits, and fruits preserved in brandy, placed in china or glass dishes; small biscuits, cakes, filberts, and such-like. When the ices are placed on the table they are put at the top and bottom, with the ice pails and dishes, with wafers at the sides. The dishes of fruit for these places are put on to remove the ices ; but this arrangement is usual only in large parties, otherwise the ices and wafers are handed round, followed by preserved ginger or brandy cherries. The dishes being all on the table, then put on the sugar basins with powdei'ed lump sugar, and the water jugs, with a tumbler on either side, between the top and bottom dishes, and basins with cream, when required, near the centre dish. Put table-spoons to the dishes for fruit; knives for the cake and large fruits, such as a melon or pine apple. The ice plates are first to be placed on the table when ices are served, with a tea-spoon to each, aud two wine- glasses to each person. When the ices are done with put on the dessert plates, with a doily, knife, fork, and dessert-spoon on each; put the spoon in the centre of each knife and fork ; sometimes the two wine-glasses are placed across these with the foot of one to the rim of the other. Finger glasses should be placed to the right of each person, nearly half filled with cold spring water in summer and lukewarm ■water in winter. Put the grape scissors by the side of the dish of grapes, and if you have a melon knife and fork place them with the melon instead of a dinner knife and fork. If there are nuts put on several pairs of nut- crackers. The wine should be placed at the top and bottom of the table, cooled or otherwise, accord- ing to the season. If the party is small the wine may be placed only at the bottom of the table. When the dessert is all set out, and the ices served round, be as quick as possible in re- moving everything out of the dining-room that has been used for dinner, but with as little noise and bustle as possible. The clean glasses on the sideboard, with the clean plate and cruet stand, may remain, as well as the clean plates and knives and forks on the side table. Occasionally zests are served at the close of the dessert. These consist of anchovy toasts or biscuits, devilled game or poultry, gi'ills, and such-like. Coffee is served last, just before the gentlemen retire to the drawing-room to join the ladies. DEVIL. The gizzard and rump, or legs, &c., of a dressed turkey, capon, goose, or mutton or veal kidney, scored, peppered, salted, and broiled, sent up for a relish, being made very hot, has obtained the name of a " devil." DEVILLED BISCUIT. Bone and wash some anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a little fresh butter, rub them through a sieve, and spread them on a biscuit warmed before the fire in a Dutch oven, with a sufficient quantity of salt, savoury spice, zest, curry powdei", or Cayenne pepner sprinkled over it. DEVONPORT FOWLS. Hang up young fowls for a night. Make a stuffing of the liver, hearts, and the softest parts of the gizzards shred small, with a handful of young clary, one anchovy for each fowl, an onion, the yolks of four hard eggs, pepper, salt, and mace. Stuff the fowls, and stew up the vents and necks ; boil them in salt and water till nearly done ; drain, and put them into a stewpan with sufficient butter to brown them. Serve them with melted butter and catsup in the dish. DEVONSHIRE CREAM. See Cbeam. Devonshire. DEVONSHIRE HERB PIE. Pick two handsful of parsley from the stem, half as much spinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cress, a few leaves of boi-age, and white beet leaves ; wash and boil these a little, drain and press out the water, cut them small, and lay them in a dish, sprinkled with some salt; make a batter with flour, two eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, and half as much milk ; put this on the herbs; cover the whole with a crust, and bake it well. DEVONSHIRE JUNKET. Put into a bowl some new milk warm from the cow, and turn it with rennet; then add some scalded cream, with sugar and pounded cinnamon on