[ 469 3 EME EME two classes or lands, namely, the oriental and the occidental. The former aie at present ex- tremely scarce, being found only in the king- dom of Canibay, in India. The occidental emeralds are chiefly imported from Peru, in South America. A very inferior sort is also obtained from Silesia, which, however, is little esteemed. Genuine emeralds being seldom to he met with, several experiments have been made and direc- tions given for imitating them, from which we select the following:—Take of natural crystal and of red lead, each 4 ozs.; verdigris, 48 grains ; acetate of iron, 8 grains. The whole is to be finely pulverised, sifted, and put into a crucible, the space of one inch being left empty. It is then to be well luted, set in a potter's fur- nace, and left for the same space of time as earthenware. When cool the crucible is to be broken, and these ingredients will be found converted into a mass of a fine emerald colour, ■which, after being properly cut and set in gold, will at least be equal, if not superior, to genuine oriental emeralds. EMERY is a mineral found in the island of Jersey, and is a compound of clay, iron, and flint. It is used for filling little cushions kept in ladies' workboxes for the purpose of removing rust or other roughness from needles. It is also consumed in very considerable quantities by locksmiths, glaziers, lapidaries, masons, cutlers, and others, who employ it for cutting and polishing glass, marble, and precious stones, as well as for the polishing and burnishing of articles made of iron and steel. This species of emery is of a brownish colour, inclining to red, is extremely hard, and consequently very difli- cult to be reduced to powder—an art which has been discovered in this country, and is effected by means of certain mills invented for the purpose. When pulverised it forms a considerable article of exportation. This native ore, when fused with lead or iron, possesses the property of hardening those metals. It deserves no notice either as an internal medicine or as a den- tifrice. EMETIC, TARTAR. See Antimony, Tar- trate OF, AND Potash. EMETICS are those medicines which are either given with a view to discharge the foul or poisoned contents of the stomach, or to stimu- late the coats of that organ, and thus to produce certain changes in other parts of the animal economy not immediately connected with the process of digestion. With the latter inten- tion small nauseating doses are generally ad- ministered, especially in catarrhal and other diseases of the breast. In this place, however, we shall but briefly enumerate the cases in which vomiting may be excited with a proba- bility of success, and also those instances m which this remedy cannot be safely adopted. Emetics may be of great service— 1. Immediately after swallowing narcotic and other poisons. See Antidotes. 2. For the purpose of evacuating viscid, bilious, and putrid matters, or undigested food from the stomach. 3. To assist nature when there is a spon- taneous effort to vomit. 4. To expel substances fallen into and ob- structing the passage of the gullet. 5. To promote the expectoration of mucous and purulent matter collected in the lungs and windpipe, as well as on many other occasions. On the contrary, the greatest precaution is required in the following cases, where a precipi- tate use of emetics may be attended with fatal effects, from bursting a blood-vessel, &c. 1. In all plethoric persons, but especially such as perceive a strong propulsion of the blood to the head, breast, stomach, or liver. 2. In actual inflammation of the intestines. 3. In states of extreme languor and debility. 4. In every species of ruptures and prolapses. 5. In violent pain proceeding from stones confined in the bilious or urinary passages. 6. In obstructions of the bowels and other abdominal parts. 7. In persons of very rigid fibres; for instance, the aged and emaciated. 8. In a very weak or affected state of the lungs, liver, and stomach. 9. In a deformed structure of the body or some particular parts, for which reason emetics might prove dangerous to persons troubled with a hump back, a very short neck, narrow chest, &c. The following are the best emetics usually employed :— 1. Ipecacuanha wine, 1 drachm; tartar emetic, 1 grain ; water, 1J oz. 2. Ipecacuanha in powder, ^ drachm; tartar emetic, 1 grain ; tincture of squills, 1 drachm; water, 8^ ozs. Dose, three table-spoonsful at first, and two or more every fifteen minutes until it operates. 3. Tartar emetic, 2 grains; water, 4 ozs. Dose, two table-spoonsful every quarter of an hour until it has operated sufficiently. 4. White vitriol, 2 grains ; water, 2 ozs., for a dose. Emetic jnlls. White vitriol, 1 scruple ; con- serve of hips enough to make a bolus. To be taken for one dose, drinking camomile tea. The most speedy emetic, and advisable where poison has been swallowed, is 1 scruple of sul- phate of zinc (white vitriol), dissolved in 1 oz. of warm water. A small table-spoonful of flour of mustard in a pint of warm water may be taken if other emetics are not at hand.