BEE BEE [ 99 ] BEEF SAUSAGES. Take two beefsteaks about the size of two hands and the thickness of a finger; beat them well to make them flat, and pare the edges of them; then mince the parings with beef suet, parsley, green onions, mushrooms, two shallots, and some basil leaves, tbe whole shred fine, and mixed into a force- meat with the yolks of four eggs. Spread the forcemeat on the slices of beef and roll them up in the form of sausages; tie them up with packthread, and stew them with a little stock, a glass of wine, some salt and pepper, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, a carrot, and a parsnip. When they are done, strain the liquor, and, having skimmed the fat, reduce it over a fire to the consistence of a sauce. Take care that the sauce is not too highly flavoured, and serve it over your sausages, or they may be served with any ragout of vege- tables you please. To serve the sausages cold (to make a dish for the second course), reduce the sauce by letting it boil with the sausages till almost all the fat is consumed ; then let them stand to cool with what remains of the sauce ad- hering to them, and serve upon a napkin. BEEF, SHIN OF (Stewed). Desire the butcher to saw the bone into three or four pieces; put them into a stewpan, and just cover it with cold water; when it simmers fikim it clean ; then put in a bundle of sweet herbs, 1 large onion, 1 head of celery, 12 berries of black pepper, and the same of allspice ; stew very gently over a slow fire till the meat is tender. This will take from about three hours and a half to four hours and a half. Take 3 car- rots, peel and cut them into small squares; peel and cut ready in small squares 2 turnips, with 24 small, young, round, silver-button onions ; boil them till tender—the turnips and onions will be done in about fifteen minutes, the carrots will require about twice as long— drain them dry. When the beef is quite tender take it out carefully with a slice, and keep it on a dish while you thicken 1| pint of the gravy. To do this mix 3 table-spoonsful of flour with 1 tea-cupful of beef liquor; stir this thoroughly till it boils, skim off the fat, strain it through a sieve, and put your vegetables in to warm ; season with pepper, salt, and 1 wine-glassful of mushroom catsup, or port wine, or both, and pour it over the beef. Dr. Kitchener commends this dish as one of the very best that can be carried to table, and advises it to be called ragout beef. A leg of mutton is excellent dressed in the same way. BEEF, SIRLOIN OF. A noble sirloin of about 15 lbs. (if very thick the outside will be overdone before the inside is done enough,) will require to be before the fire about three and a half or four hours. Take care to spit evenly, that it may not be heavier on one side than on the other. Put a little clean dripping into a dripping-pan, tie a sheet of paper over the meat to preserve the fat, baste it well as soon as it is put down, and once every quarter of an hour whilst it is roasting till the last half hour; then take off the paper. Stir the fire, and make it clear, to brown and froth it; sprinkle a little salt over it; baste it with butter, and dredge it with flour; let it roast a few minutes longer till the froth rises; take it up, put it on a dish, &c., garnish it with hillocks of horse- radish, scraped as fine as possible with a very sharp knife. A Yorkshire pudding is an excel- lent accompaniment. BEEF, SIRLOIN OF (en Spigeamme). Having roasted a sirloin of beef, carefully take up the skin of the meat, which you must cut out and mince in fine shreds, but take care you do not cut the sides. Have a strong, brown sauce ready, with a few mushrooms, pepper and salt, and a little lemon-juice; put in the mince, lay it inside the beef, and cover the skin. Serve it up hot with a strong gravy. BEEF, SIRLOIN OF (Inside of). Raise the fat, cut the meat close to the bones, and chop it small. Cut 1 lb. of suet in the same manner ; then put to it some crumbs of bread, shredded lemon-peel, thyme, pepper, and salt, half a nut- meg, grated, and 2 shallots, chopped fine. Mix them with 1 glass of port; put the whole into the cavity from whence the beef was cut, strew the skin and fat over it, skewer it down and cover it with paper. Spit the sirloin before the meat is taken out, and put it down to the fire. Previous to its being done, take i pint of port, and some shallots, cut small; boil them, and pour the whole into the dish with the gravy. Send it hot to table, garnished with lemon. The inside of a rump of beef may be done in the same way by taking off the skin, cutting out the meat in the middle, and proceeding as before. BEEF, SKIRTS OF. Beef skirts eat well boiled ; they also make an excellent pie. BEEF, SMOKED (Hamburgh). Take a rump of beef, put it into a pan with juniper berries, thyme, basil, clove of garlic, bay leaf, cloves, and onions, cut in slices. Cover your pan very carefully, so as to exclude all air; turn your meat every two or three days ; at the end of a fortnight take it out, and, after having washed it in several waters, drain it for four- and-twenty hours ; then wrap it in a clean cloth, put it into a saucepan, and let it stew for seven or eight hours; take it out and let it drain. Serve cold, the same as ham. BEEF SOUP. Take a shin or leg of beef, cut it in pieces with 6 onions, 2 carrots, celery, leeks, 2 turnips, a bundle of sweet herbs, black pepper, and allspice, to your taste ; put all this