COO [ 349 ] COH wbich has served for the disinfection should be washed in large quantities of water, dried, and folded. CONTRACTTON occurs in all metals whilst they are cooling. Advantage has been taken of this property to restore the walls of a house to a perpendicular position. Bars of iron have been passed through the house from outside to out- side, and plates of iron screwed tightly on the ends of the bars up to the walls. The bai's were made to expand or lengthen by heating them; the plates were screwed up again close to the walls; and then, as the bars contracted or shortened in cooling, they drew the walls up- right. Advantage may be taken of contraction in closing the cleft in anything that is split. Let a piece of hot iron wire be coiled tightly round the article split. As the wire cools it will close the cleft still more strongly. CONTUSION. See Bruises. CONVULSIONS in adults will be considered under the title Epilepsy, and we shall confine our attention here to convulsions in children. Convulsions are generally produced either by a lodgment of some acrid matter in the intestines or wind pent up ; or they arise from teething, worms, the sudden striking in of a rash, or the accession of some constitutional disease; for example, the small pox, scarlet fever, &c. Any trifling matter will induce symptomatic con- vulsions in some children, while others will withstand a great deal. The younger and more irritable the infant is, the more liable will it be to these convulsions, especially from any consi- derable disturbances in the first passages. Where the intervals are short, although the fit itself be not long nor violent, the disease is to be considered as more dangerous than where the paroxysms are attended with long intervals. The principal treatment in convulsions con- sists in removing the cause that has given rise to them. If they are occasioned by improper food or indigestion a gentle emetic may be given, and for this purpose a weak solution of tartarised antimony (3 grains to 4 ozs. of water) may be em- ployed, in the quantity of a tea-spoonful every ten or fifteen minutes, until the desired effect is produced. When they are supposed to pro- ceed from acrid matter in the bowels a laxa- tive clyster, assisted by some gentle aperient given by the mouth, such as calomel, followed by a little senna tea, with a little tincture of jalap ; if from flatulency, carminatives, or the cordial waters possessing the power of expelling wind ; and if from teething, whenever the tooth can be discovered working through the gum scarifications may be made with the edge of a lancet immediately over it, and this operation should be repeated for several successive days, till either the tooth makes its way or the con- vulsions cease ; and where scarifications are not found to answer the purpose the tooth may be cut down upon and liberated in every part. Worms have been considered as a cause of convulsions. In these cases those remedies used in expelling worms may be had recourse to. Should convulsions have arisen from the sudden disappearance of a rash, or the drying up of a discharge behind the ears, the re-appearance of these ought to be promoted. In those convulsive attacks which frequently precede an eruption of the small pox nothing will be required but the free exposure of the child to cool air. Cold water thrown over the face, the body placed in a horizontal position, tends frequently to shorten an individual paroxysm. It is only in cases of the most urgent necessity that a small quantity of the syrup of poppies or a few drops of the tincture of opium should be hazarded. For the removal of what nurses call inward fits a few drops of antimonial wine, according to the age of the child, are recommended by Dr. Armstrong ; but all that appears to be necessary is to take up the child when it sleeps too long, and when the smile on the countenance returns often, with any of the other symptoms, to tap it softly on the back, rubbing its stomach and belly well before the fire. This gentle exercise will bring a little wind from the stomach (which is sup- posed to be the cause of the comjjlaiut), and the child will then go quietly to sleep again. Should these simple means not be sufficient a drop or two of the oil of aniseed or caraway on a bit of white sugar may be given to it. COOKERY. Under this head we shall con- fine our notes to a few suggestions which would not come appropriately under the separate con- sideration of Boiling, Roasting, &c. Many things may be re-dressed in a different form from that in which they were first served, and improve the appearance of the table without increasing the expense of it. Cold Fish. Soles, cod, whitings, smelts, &c., may be cut into bits, and put into escalop shells, with cold oyster, lobster, or shrimp sauce, and bread crumbled, put into a Dutch oven, and browned like scalloped oysters. The best way to ivarm cold meat is to sprinkle the joint over with a little salt, put it in a Dutch oven at some distance before a gentle fire, that it may warm gradually ; watch it care- fully, and keep turning it till it is quite hot and brown. It will take from twenty minutes to three quarters of an hour, according to its thick- ness. Serve it up with gravy. This is much better than hashing it, and by doing it nicely a cook will get great credit. Poultry and Fried Fish may be re-dressed this way. Take care of the liquor you have boiled poultry or meat in. In five minutes you can