COR COS [ .338 ] .figure. So far as the fulfilment of the first in- tention is concerned they appear to be indispen- sable in the present construction of European dress, as without some defence of this kind the waist would be injured by being tightly girt, and an undue pressure be exercised on the organs of digestion. It is no uncommon cir- cumstance to find, in some old women who em- ploy a string or cord to fix the petticoats, a transverse fissure on the loins nearly an inch in depth. So far, indeed, stays are useful when thus employed with the intention of avoiding circumscribed constriction, and of rendering the pressure more uniform and diffused; but when for the purpose of bringing the body within the limits of some fancied line of beauty they can- not but meet with the most decided disapproval. Gradual pressure on any part of a living body sooner or later leads to the removal of the compressed part, and this is said to take place from absorption, or, in other words, the pressure irritates a set of vessels provided for taking up useless parts of the frame, and they shortly fall to work and dissipate the matter now regarded as an encumbrance. This process is invariably facilitated by the compressed parts remaining perfectly at rest, a state generally in- sured by the continuance of the pressure. The first evidence, therefore, of the pernicious effects of a belt round the body is the wasting of those muscles which are designed for the support of the bony coverings of the chest. Slowly but surely do these muscles disappear, and with the same certainty does the spinal column come to have its sole dependence for its erect posture on the deceitful jean or calico machine, which has, under the disguise of friendship, wrought its ruin. If, however, the mischief terminated here we should not have much reason to com- plain, as with proper management a wasted muscle may soon be restored to its healthy and vigorous dimensions. But no; a chain of actions has been called into operation—the first of a series of destructive agencies has commenced its havoc, and the road to ruin of the silly victim is now clearly marked. The bones of the chest and back, now deprived of their guardian muscles, yield readily to the quiet onsets of the instru- ment of fashion ; they are crushed together so long as they will bend one upon another, and when that bending ceases their absorbent vessels are speedily called into play, as in the case of the muscles, and the owner's wishes are gratified by a short life-rent of a horrible deformity, inno- cently called by the world "ahandsome waist!" The word " waist" expresses a something for which we can find no parallel in nature ; some- thing, in fact, which should not exist, and never would have been but for the perverted ideas of beauty which have been suffered too long to pass current with the people. It signifies an unnatural indentation, embracing the body, and dividing it into an upper and a lower portion. COSMETICS. Ladies who have once adopted the use of paint become insensibly so accustomed to the sight of the artificial bloom that it always appears to them less intense than it really is; they, therefore, invariably lay on a thicker coat than is necessary. To the lady at her toilet glass the colour seems veiy be- coming, when, in sober truth, it is so dreadfully exaggerated that she exposes herself to one of three things—to immediate detection by eveiy one who sees her (and this is now generally the case), or else to the imputation of being either a termagant or a drinker in private of ardent spirits. We most earnestly, therefore, deprecate this excess of bloom. We would rather see too little than too much; and such of our fair readers as are votaries of the hare's foot may depend upon it that when they deem them- selves under-rouged they are the very pink of perfection, so far as the best carmine can make them. Let them, therefore, rely more upon the judgment of their maids than upon their own. As for those who have no waiting- maids, let them consult whom they can, and, in default of advisers, let them in their own judgment be under-painted. The use of pearl powder, as it is generally termed, is very injurious not only to the skin, but to the general health. Certain substances brought too near it turn it to a dark lead colour. Let the lady who beautifies with this compound avoid all preparations of onions—they would prove fatal to her beauty. Pearl powder, moreover, is always detected, for it imparts a pale, sickly hue, which is the more apparent from its contrast with the carmine. The natural skin is of a pink white, and to imitate this a pink tinge is often given to the pearl powder; but the aim is missed, for the pink and white never blend sufficiently to form a proj^er tint. White paint of any kind, besides that it often gives a ghastly appearance, is quite unnecessary. The skin, however dark or freckled, will generally not look ill in the evening in well-lighted apart- ments, especially when a reasonable quantity of carmine has imparted to the cheeks a bloom, which at a distance conceals the ravages of age, provided it be not outre; but the white, from its unnatural colour, even a long way off, always draws attention. If, however, ladies will use white, let them have some French chalk blanched and ground into an impalpable powder. They can then make the tint they wish by mixing with the chalk a sufiicient quantity of the carmine herein- after indicated. This mixture is, at all events, fully as good as the pearl powder, if not better;