[ 31 ] APP APP ness, and are in reality the dearest of any. A well-made garment, of good materials, will with proper care look well to the last, and is not damaged by dirt or wet; but an inferior one will never look well after the shine has been literally taken out of it by a shower of rain; and therefore, on the score of economy, the person whose outlay for clothes is limited, should invariably decline the purchase of cheap ticketed garments, made up, like Peter Pindar's razors, " to sell." Neither would we recommend the system of bargain for a certain number of suits annually— a very prevalent practice some years ago, but now gone out of fashion, because it never gives satisfaction to either party ; and, in truth, is not so cheap a plan as purchasing good clothes out- and-out, and when they are worn down suffi- ciently, disposing of them to the Jews, who, if the articles were originally good, will give a tolerable price for them. The best system is, therefore, to deal with tradesmen of established respectability, to pay punctually, which will ensure attention, to have your things made to fit (but not too tightly) after the prevailing mode, but by no means in the extreme of the fashion. A real gentleman is distinguished by the neat- ness of his attire, the goodness of the material, personal cleanliness, and an unaffected carriage. This is the pattern which persons of inferior degree should imitate, avoiding a display of rings and brooches, and any outre foppishness ; which is a sure sign of want of intellect, and instead of exciting admiration, in nine cases out of ten, induces contempt. For general wear, invisible green in coats is the most prevalent .and enduring colour; but a suit of black is convenient to keep at hand, being always dress for an evening, and ready on occasions of private or public mourning. A material point for the economist to attend to is, however, to be careful in the wear of his clothes. For this reason the coat should be thrown off when at home (or if a professional man or a tradesman, during his hours of busi- ness), and either some older garment or a morning-gown substituted. Clothes take more damage in lounging about, rubbing the cuffs against chairs and desks, &c., than when worn in walking; and for this reason it is the constant practice of the thousands of persons emploj'ed in public and private offices in the metropolis, to change their coat, and substitute that called the " office coat," before they enter on their daily labours. Trousers, too, are more de- teriorated m a sitting than a standing posture, particularly by bagging at the knees, and it is good economy before sitting down at home to dinner, if there be no engagement for the eve ning, to put on a homely suit, kept for the purpose, which fits easy. Owing to the great scarcity of beaver it is now difficult to get a really good hat, made of that material, which will wear well to the last. So many spurious articles are offered that the best judges are deceived, and therefore the only resource is to trust to the respectability of the hatter you deal with. The same reasoning applies to boots and shoes, of which vast numbers are imported into the metropolis and other large towns from Northamptonshire, Staffordshire, and Cheshire, of very inferior quality to the " London-made." Those who tread heavily and are apt to cut the leather at the sides before the sole is worn through, or whose feet are tender, should have the front of their boots of buck- skin ; and it may be procured prepared with a varnish which renders it impervious to wet. Boots and shoes improve by keeping, provided they are thoroughly saturated with good blacking occasionally; and if several pairs are kept in use, so as to change them on alternate days and give the wetted pair sufficient time to dry, it will be found economical, for they will wear better and retain their shape longer. Having thrown out these general hints, we shall now describe more particularly the manage- ment of clothes in the brushing, folding, cleaning, &c. Woollen clothes must be occasionally beaten, so as to raise the dust before brushing; and this, as well as the brushing, should be performed in a yard or a passage, because when done in a kitchen not only is there a liability of grease, but the minute particles of dust enter into the culinary preparations. A maid-of-all work should always be made to put on an apron, kept for this purpose alone, and wash her handfi before entering on the task of brushing; but in families where no footman or boy is kept, young men should not be above jierforming this operation for themselves. Footmen are., or ought to be, sufficiently instructed in the pro- cess ; but for the information of others the following directions will be useful. First, as to dusting, having spread the garment on a wooden horse, beat it gently with a small switch or cane free from knots; a lady's whip is the best dust- ing tool. Do not strike too hard, or you will break the mould buttons ; and always endeavour to avoid striking metal buttons, otherwise they will be scratched, Kub gently between the hands any spots of dirt set firm, and be sure that the gai'ment is dry before you commence upon it. You should provide two clothes brushes, a hard and a soft one. and never use the hard one unless to remove fixed dirt. The soft brush does not wear ofi the nap, and will suffice to