BRE BRE [ 155 ] in small loaves, but not less than 4-lb. loaves, for if smaller the bread is insipid. One of these reasons is, that such bread is more entirely freed from the products of fermentation; they must escape much more completely from a small loaf than from a larger one. There is, in the second place, less necessity for putting the bread into a very hot oven, or for continuing it in the oven so long as to deprive the outer part of its nu^ tritious particles. Such bread is sweeter to the taste than bread made in large loaves, because it is more entirely freed from the products of fermentation, and for the same reason it is more digestible. Looking upon this matter in a pecuniary point of view, from any given number of pounds of flour, baked in small loaves, a larger quantity of nourishing matter will be obtained than if it be baked in large loaves, while the bread will be both more palatable and more wholesome. It will now be no very difficult m.atter for the reader to understand why it is found so useful by many sufferers from indigestion to have their bread toasted. By this, in fact, the products of fermentation are still further expelled; and, pi'ovided the process be not carried too far, the loss of nourishment is comparatively trifling. To bum toast is not only a proof of careless^ ness, and not only renders the burned parts almost uneatable, but it is an absolute waste, seeing that they afford little more nourishment than would be derived from swallowing an equal quantity of chai'coal. We may mention another fact which is worth the attention of some people. Toast allowed to stand till it is cold before it is eaten is much more wholesome, or at least much less likely to interfere with the functions of the stomach, than if it be eaten hot; ajid some of our readers, who may be particular in such matters, will be glad to hear that, in our opinion, toast is more digestible, as well as more palat- able, if placed on end while cooling, than if allowed to lie flat on the table or the plate. We have hitherto spoken of bread as made of the flour of the finest wheat, without any addi- tions to it. The viscidity of the dough is neces- sai'ily much diminished if any of the covering , or husk of the grain is left in combination with the flour. At the same time the lightness or porosity of the bread made from it is lessened; and, owing to this, the products of fermentation, &c., do not so completely escape during the baking. In some people its tendency to dis- agree with the stomach is, in this way, very materially increased. Yet in the mass of people, ■whose stomachs seldom complain unless they are dreadfully overworked, and with whom the' I chief grievance is a confined state of the bowels,. I this kind of bread is for the most part found to j agree much better than that into the composi- tion of which flour only enters. The husks, in fact, mechanically irritate the stomach and bowels, and promote the propulsion of the ingesta through them. To the classes we have spoken of we would strongly recommend this kind of bread, or at all events an occasional use of it; but with a man who has a otorbidly sensible stomach, or feeble powers of digestion, it will seldom indeed be found to agree, and to suih we should certainly not recommend its use. It will have been observed that we advise some to use inferior flour, or, what is commonly called, brown bread—which is seldom anything but a mixture of very coarse w heat and rye flour—when they find, for the reasons we have mentioned, that fine bread does not suit them. Such bread is often far from wholesome, as well as being anything but nutritious. It may be depended on that the best flour—that which contains the largest proportional quantity of gluten—is al- ways the cheapest; affords, weight for weight, more nourishment than suffices to counterbalance the trifling difference of price. Let us add another word to this. Those who ■want good, sound, well-fermented, and well-baked bread, made of the best flour, with or without some or the whole of the husks of the grain, and without any other addition to this than water, yeast, and salt must make it and bake it at home. Our remarks will probably never go so far as to injure the bakers ; but if they were to do so the cause of the complaint would be done away with. For so great is the prejudice of people in favour of white-looking bread— bread that is really whiter than it could be made fi'om the finest flour that was ever seen, that, in self-defence, bakers have been compelled to resort to means that enable them to please the eyes of their customers, although at the expense of the wholesomeness of the article they vend. And bread so adulterated, in order to render it of a sufficiently white colour, affords an almost irresistible temptation to adulterate the mass still further, from the next to impossibility of detecting the adulteration in such bread. What is added for this purpose is always less nutritious than wheat-flour, and thus it does negative if not positive hai-m. Flour ought not to be used immediately after being ground, because in its fresh state it is too glutinous to make good bread. It should be kept dry for several weeks, stirred every day in summer, and at least every second day in colder weather, until it becomes quite dry, loose. a!id yielding between the fingers. A bushel of good flour made from dry. well- harvested wheat, and freed from bran and pol- lard, weighs 56 lbs. : such flour will make the whitest bread; but it is dear in the first instance, and will not yield so great an increase as that