COD COD [ 326 ] COD, SALT (Fried). Boil and pull a cod into flakes, and put into it some bechamel. Let it cool in this sauce. Place the flakes in little heaps; bread them; dip each heap into some well-beaten eggs; bread them a second time; fry them of a nice colour; and serve with orange juice and fried parsley. COD, SALT, FRITTERS. Dip some flakes of previously boiled cod into a batter made of wine, sweet oil, and a very little salt; fry, and garnish with fried parsley. COD, SALT (a la Languedocienne). Make a sauce with a bit of butter, salt, pepper, nut- meg, parsley, and sweet herbs minced, half a glass of sweet oil, and some bread crumbled. When suSiciently thick and well flavoured put in the tail of a salt cod, and stew it gently for half an hour. Serve it hot, and squeeze the juice of half a lemon over. COD, SALT (a la MAiTRR d'Hotel). Put the fish when soaked, &c., into a fish kettle with cold water. When near boiling skim it, and the moment it does boil take it from the fire, and cover it with a cloth seven or eight minutes; then drain, and place the fish, with parsley, chopped scallions, pepper, nutmeg, a bit of butter, and a spoonful of sweet oil, on a dish. Make it quite hot, and serve immediately. COD, SALT (Marinated and Fried). Having boiled and flaked it, marinate it for two or three hours in a little water, with vinegar, pepper, parsley, scallions, garlic, sliced onions, bits of carrot, and cloves. Drain well, dry, flour, and fry it. Serve with fried parsley. COD, SALT, PIE. Put some flakes of boiled cod (cold) into a puff paste, with butter, pepper, and sweet herbs. When baked take out the herbs, and put into the pie some sauce d la crime. COD, SALT (A. LA Proven^ale). Prepare and boil the cod 1 la Maitre d'Hotel, and put it into a stewpan, with fresh butter, pepper, nutmeg grated, shred parsley and scallions, a little sweet oil, and a clove of garlic; mix this well together, and then put in your fish. Make it quite hot, stirring constantly. Serve with the sauce over it, and a little lemon juice. COD, SALT (en Stinquerque). Take a dish that will bear the fire, and put into it a bit of butter, with some parsley, scallions, garlic, and anchovies (all minced), pepper, and a few Vvfhole capers. On this put a layer of salt cod, then a layer of-the seasoning, and so on altei-nately until the dish is quite full. Cover the whole with bread crumbs, place the dish on a stove, and let it boil a little while. Brown it with a salamander. COD, SALT (au Verd Pre). Boil the fish ill butter and sweet herbs ; dish it, and cover it with parsley chopped very small; squeeze lemon iuice over, and serve it hot without any other seasoning. COD SAUCE. Take a bunch of parsley, chibbal, 2 shallots, 2 cloves, a bay leaf, some mushrooms, and a bit of butter. Soak all together on the fire, adding a small spoonful of flour, and milk or cream sufficient to boil to the consistence of a sauce; then add to it some chopped parsley, first scalded. COD SOUkDS. This is the white skin of the belly, and is reckoned a great delicacy, and may be either boiled, broiled, or fried. Pre- viously to dressing either way they should be well soaked, washed, and boiled a little. COD SOUNDS (Boiled with Gravy). Scald them in hot water, and rub them with salt; blanch them, that is, take off the black, dirty skin ; then set them on the fire in cold water, and let them simmer till they begin to be tender; take them out, flour, and broil them on a gridiron. In the meantime take a little good gravy, a little mustard, and a little bit of butter rolled in flour; give it a boil, and season it with pepper and salt. Lay the sounds in your dish, and pour the sauce over them. COD SOUNDS (en Poule). Make a force- meat with some chopped oysters, anchovies, bread crumbs, and a little butter; bind it with two eggs, and season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Wash and boil in milk and water three or four sounds, and when cold put a layer of the forcemeat on each; roll them up in the form of chickens, and skewer them ; lard, sprinkle flour over, and cook them' gently in a Dutch oven. Serve with oyster sauce. COD, STEWED. Cut the fish into slices an inch thick, lay them in a stewpan, seasoned with nutmeg, pepper, sweet herbs, salt, an onion, \ pint of white wine, and ^,pint of water. Cover the whole closely, and simmer for five or six minutes; then squeeze a lemon over it, and add a few oysters, with the liquor strained, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and one or two blades of mace. Stew gently, and shake the pan often to prevent burning. When done take out the onion and sweet herbs, lay the cod in a warm dish, and strain the sauce over it. COD'S HEAD : To Bake. When cleaned and washed lay it in a dish that has been rubbed with butter. Put therein some sweet herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, 3 or 4 blades of mace, some black and white pepper, a nutmeg bruised, a little lemon-peel, a piece of horseradish, and 1 quart of water. Dust the fish with flour, grate a little additional nutmeg over it, stick butter on different parts, sprinkle raspings of bread thereon, and place it in the oven. When done take the head out of the dish, and put it into another, which set over some boiling water, and cover it thoroughly. In the meantime pour