C 50T ] FLA FLA The principal objection to the wearing of flannel appears to be that it irritates the skin, and occasions disagreeable sensations. These, however, continue only for a few days, and the subsequent advantages thence resulting amply compensate for such temporary uneasiness. Both young and aged would derive from it equal advantages. We do not, however, mean to in- sinuate that flannel next the skin should be universally and indiscriminately worn by infants and young persons, though it is an ill-founded assertion of its adversaries that it has a tendency to produce eruptions, as it ev-idently opens the pores, promotes perspiration, and thus removes the principal cause of cutaneous diseases that originate from an obstructed and irregular state of the skin. There are, however, certain cases in which flannel cannot with strict propriety be used as an under dress. In order to enable the reader to ascertain whether its constant use be ad- visable or not we shall point out the leading circumstances which may, in this respect, in- fluence his determination. It is a salutary dress to all those, in general, who have passed the meridian of life, or the thirty-fifth year of their age, though they may not have been ac- customed to it from their infancy; to persons of a cold and phlegmatic habit, or leading a sedentary life ; to such as are subject to fits of the gout, rheumatism, frequent colds, and catarrhs ; to individuals very susceptible of impressions connected with the vicissitudes of air, weather, and climate, as well as to nervous patients, and those who have recently recovered from severe chronical diseases. On the contrary, the wearing of flannel next the skin may be injurious to constitutions so organised that they are liable to profuse perspiration on taking even moderate exercise ; or to those who are already afflicted with scorbutic or other eruptions of the skin or, lastly, to all such irritable and whimsical persons as possess neither bodily nor mental vigour sufficient to overcome tlie first uneasy sensations which it occasions. But we are fully warranted to assert, from daily experience, that the habitual use of this beneficent texture has essentially contributed to the recovery of number- less rickety childi-en, not less than to the saving of others who were born of feeble and enervated parents. In short, there is every reason to believe that a more general adoption of this salutiferous cloth might prevent many fatal inflammations of the throat, breast, lungs, &c., to which the poorer class of people are re- markably liable, and thus preserve the lives of multitudes who now become a prey to our damp and variable climate. Flannel should be washed in cold water mixed with a little ox or sheep-gall. If washed in hot water and with 6oap it shrinks and becomes yellow coloured. To prevent it becoming yellow we have, nevertheless, the following recom- mendation :—Mix four table-spoonsful of flour with four quarts of water, and put it to boil, stirring the whole time. When thoroughly boiled put the flannel articles into a tub, and pour over them half the quantity of this liquid in a boiling state. When the water in the tub has become cold enough to enable you to bear your hand in it wash the flannels in the usual way, but without using soap ; rinse in three or four waters, and having let them drain as much as possible, replace them in the tub, and pour over the remainder of the liquid boiling hot. When cool wash out as before, rinse them well, and hang out to dry without wringing. FLANS. Pare and cut in quarters twelve fine rennet apples ; put them on the fire, with 4 ozs. of butter and 4 ozs. of sugar, or what has been rasped on the zest of a citron or lemon; cook the apples half, and let them cool. Make 6 ozs. of flour into a fine paste; mould and roll it out eleven inches , dress it up two inches all round, which will leave it seven inches over ; put it on an oven leaf; pinch or decorate it lightly round the edge , put the quarters of the apples round which are most done; pour over the syi-up; bind the paste with a strong buttered paper; dress the other apples carefully over; put it into a quick oven. When it has been in three quarters of an hour take off the band, and glaze the crust tenderly; return it for some minutes into the oven, and then strew the crust with sugar finely powdered ; glaze it at a little flame in the mouth of the oven, and when it is to be served mask it with some spoonsful of apricot, apple, or simple syrup. If to be served cold make it without butter. Flans may be made of all fruits; none but apples take butter. They are elegant dishes. Flans may also be made with crime patissiere and others. FLATULENCY, or Wind. All nervous patients, without exception, are afflicted with wind and flatulencies in the stomach and bowels, which arise chiefly from the want of tone or vigour in these organs. Crude flatulent aliment, as green peas, beans, coleworts, cabbages, and such-like, may increase this complaint; but strong and healthy people are seldom troubled with wind unless they either overload their stomachs, or drink liquors that are in a fermenting state, and consequently full of elastic air. While, therefore, the matter of flatulence proceeds from our aliments, the cause which makes air separate from them in such quantity as to occasion complaints is almost always a fault of the bowels themselves, which are too weak either to prevent the production of elastic air, or to expel it after it is produced.