BEE [ 95 ] BEE BEEF, MINCED (1). Take some cold roasted fillet of beef, cut out all the fat and suet, then chop the meat as fine as possible, and put it into a reduced Spanish sauce made boiling hot; when ready to serve, add a bit of butter to it. Serve your mince with soft, boiled eggs round it, or with pieces of toasted bread. BEEF, MINCED (2). Mince your beef very small; put it into a saucepan with a little gravy and a little of the fat of fowl, or any other fat; moisten it with some stock and a little white wine; season according to your taste; then let it simmer over a gentle fire till it is sufficiently done. BEEF OLIVES. Cut some slices of under- done boiled beef i inch thick and 4 inches square; lay them on a forcemeat, made of bread- crumbs, shallots, suet or fat, pepper and salt. EoU and fasten them with a skewer ; put them into a stewpan with gravy, made of either bones or meat, and a little water. Stew the whole till tender; add at pleasure mushrooms, truffles, and morels. Garnish with beet-root and lemon. You may use fresh meat instead of that which has been dressed. BEEF-AND-OYSTER SAUSAGES. Scald f pint of oysters in their own liquor ; take them out and chop them fine; mince 1 lb. of beef and mutton, and f lb. of beef suet; add the oysters, and season with salt, pepper, mace, and two pounded cloves ; beat up 2 eggs, and mix them well with the other ingredients, and pack it closely into a jar. When to be used roll it into the form of small sausages ; dip them into the yolk of an egg beaten up, strew grated bread- crumbs over them, or dust with flour, and fry them in fresh dripping. Serve them upon fried bread hot. BEEF PASTY. Take a small rutnp or sir- loin of beef, bone it, and beat it well with a rolling-pin ; to 5 lbs. of beef take 2 ozs. of sugar, rub it well into the meat, and let it lie for twenty-four hours ; then either wipe it clean or wash it off with a little claret, and season it highly with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; put it in your pasty, and lay over it 1 lb. of butter; close it up, and bake it. Put the bones into a pan with just as much water as will cover them, and bake them to make gravy, and when the pasty is drawn, if it wants liquor, put in some of this gravy. BEEF, PICKLED. Stick a rib of beef with garlic and cloves; season it with salt, black pepper, mace, and garlic, pounded; cover it with vinegar and thyme; turn it every day for a fortnight, and, if necessary, add more vinegar; then put it into a stewpan, and cover it close; simmer for si.x; hours, and put thereto vinegar and white wine. BEEF PIES (with Truffles). Bone a small, fat rump of beef; daub it with slips of fat bacon; put it into a raised crust with light forcemeat, and plenty of whole, peeled, green truffles round it; cover it with paste; garnish, and bake it two hours ; then add sauce made with a pint of veal broth, a gill of lemon-pickle, a bay leaf, a few chopped shallots, and Cayenne pepper; make it of a proper thickness, and strain. Two hours afterwards cut the top off the pie, skim free from fat, glaze the rump, and serve it at table. BEEF, PORCUPINE OF. Bone the flat ribs and beat the meat half an hour; then rub it over with the yolks of eggs. Strew thereon bread-crumbs, parsley, leeks, sweet marjoram, lemon-peel, grated fine, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Roll it up tight and bind it close : lard it across with bacon; then add a row of cold, boiled tongue, another of pickled cucumbers, next a row of lemon-peel, and so continue till it is larded all round. Then split and put it into a deep pot with 1 pint of water; then lay over it a caul of veal; tie it down with strong paper, and send it to the oven. When done, skim off the fat and strain the gravy into the saucepan; add to it 2 spoonsful of red wine, as much browning, half the quantity of mushi'oom catsup, and half a lemon. Thicken it with butter rolled in flour. Dish up the meat, pour in the gravy, lay round it forcemeat balls, and garnish with horseradish. BEEF, PORTUGAL. Take the meat from a rump of beef, cut it across, flour it, and fry the thin part brown in butter; stuff the thick end with suet, boiled chestnuts, an anchovy, an onion, and a little pepper; stew it with good strong broth, and when tender cut the fried in two, and lay it on each side of the stewed in the dish; strain the gravy; put to it pickled gherkins, chopped, and some boiled chestnuts ; thicken with burnt butter, and boil it up two or three times; season with salt; pour it over the beef; garnish with lemon, and serve. BEEF, POTTED (1). Rub 2lbs. of lean beef with saltpetre and let it lie one night; then do it over with common salt and cover it with water, in which it must remain four days. On taking it out, dry it with a cloth and season it with black pepper. Lay it in a small pan, cover it with a coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven, but put no liquor into the pan. When cold, clear away the sinews and fat; beat the meat very fine, with ;|-Ib. of warm butter and as much gravy as will make a paste. Put it into small pots covered with melted butter. BEEF, POTTED (2). Take 4 lbs. of beef, free from skin and sinews, and rub it with sugar, salt, and saltpetre, in the proportion of about ^ oz. of each to the above quantity of meat. Let it lie in the pickle one or two days,