[ 300 ] CHO CHO Put 2 ozs. of very fine sugar, sifted, and 8 ozs. of chocolate, grated, into a pan with the whites of 1^ eggs ; stir it with a silver spoon for eight or ten minutes, and, having filled the bouchees with marmalade, mask them with this mixture. As you do them strew crystallised sugar over them, and place them carefully on a baking plate covered with paper. When all are done put them in the oven for five or six minutes, and serve them when cold. CHOCOLATE CAKES. Grate 3 ozs. of vanilla chocolate, and mix it with ^ lb. of sifted sugar, diluted with a little white of egg. Pre- pare and finish your calces as directed. CHOCOLATE WITH CHEESE. Whip 1^ pint of rich cream. Melt Jib. of chocolate that you have previously rasped or pounded; add a little water to it. Wlien melted mix with it a little isinglass and a little sugar ; then mix that with the whipped cream ; fill your mould, and surround it with ice. Do not neglect to whip it over ice till you find the mixture begins to freeze ; then put it into the mould, and sur- round it with ice. CHOCOLATE CHEESE (Bavarian). Dis- solve ^ lb. of the best chocolate in a glass of boiling water, and boil it for five minutes, stir- ring constantly. When perfectly dissolved add a glass of good cream (also boiling), 6 ozs. of powder sugar, and 6 drachms of clarified isin- glass. When well mixed strain it off into a bol in ice; stir it with a silver spoon, and, as soon as it begins to take, mix some Chantilly cheese, and finish as usual. CHOCOLATE COMFITS. Take 2 ozs. of chocolate, and beat it small with a little warm water over the fire. When it is dissolved and reduced to a paste pour it upon 1 lb. of masse- pain, or sweet paste, to which add some cinna- mon or vanilla at discretion. Mix the whole well together, then spread it over some wafer shapes, and bake it in a moderate oven. If the paste does not appear deep-coloured enough you may colour it with bolus Armeniacum. CHOCOLATE CONSERVE. Dissolve 2ozs. of good chocolate in a little water; put it into a skillet, with i lb. of sugar boiled to perle. Keep the sugar stirring, and when it boils put the conserve into moulds. CHOCOLATE CKEAM (1). Scrape down i lb. of the best chocolate; put it into a marble mortar; pour on by degrees as much boiling water as will dissolve it, and beat it well for about a quarter of an hour; then sweeten it with 4 table-spoonsful of powdered loaf sugar. Add gradually pint of rich cream. Mill it with a chocolate mill or a little tin churn, or beat it hard with rods. As the froth rises take it off, and lay it on the inverted bottom of a sieve that is placed in a deep pan. When done take the liquid that has drained through the sieve, and put a portion of it in the bottom of each glass ; then fill the glasses with the froth, heap- ing it high on the top, and set it in a cool dry place till wanted. CHOCOLATE CREAM (2). Boil a vaniUa bean in | pint of milk till the flavour is well extracted : then take out the bean, wipe it dry, and put it away. It may be used a second time for a slight vanilla flavouring. Scrape down J lb. of excellent chocolate, and mix it with the vanilla milk. Put it into a chocolate pot or a saucepan, and pour on it H pint of rich milk. Set it on a fire or on a bed of hot coals, and boil it slowly, stirring it till the chocolate is entirely dissolved and thoroughly incorporated with the milk. Beat 6 eggs very light, and stir them gradually into the mixture, continuing to stir, lest it should curdle. When the egg is all in, and it begins to boil up, take it off, and when cool enough transfer it to glasses, or to a bowl. CHOCOLATE CREAM (French). Dissolve J lb. of the best chocolate in a glass of boiling water over a slow fire ; then pour into it, one at a time, the yolks of 8 eggs; add ^ lb. of sugar and 4 glasses of boiling milk. Stir it constantly over a moderate fire till the cream thickens, then boil it up once, and strain it. When nearly cold add 6 drachms of isinglass, and finish in the usual way. CHOCOLATE CREAM (Whipped). Dis- solve i lb. of the best chocolate in i glass of boiling water over a moderate fire; then let it cool. Add to it J lb. of powder sugar, and mix it with whipped cream. CHOCOLATE DROPS. Take li lb. of chocolate, put it on a pewter sheet or plate, and set it in the oven just to warm the chocolate ; then put it into a copper stewpan, with f lb. of powder sugar. Mix it weU over the fire ; take it off, and roll it in pieces the size of small marbles. Put them on white paper, and, when they are all on, take the sheet of paper by each corner, and lift it up and down so that the paper may touch the table each time, and by that means you will see the drops come quite fat, about the size of a sixpence. Put some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover all that are on the paper; then shake them off, and you will see all the chocolate drops covered with sugar nonpareils. Let them stand till cold, and they will come off well; then put them in a box papered. CHOCOLATE FLOATING ISLAND. Take the whites of 2 eggs, and mLx them with 2 ozs. of chocolate scraped. Pile it on a thin custard or jelly. CHOCOLATE FROTHED. Put ilh. of chocolate to a glr^s of water over a slow fire, stirring it with a wooden spoon until perfectly