CAB [ 196 ] CAB by furnisliing cabins; and will there tave the advantage of not only selecting what best suits your purpose and taste, but you will obtain the articles for one-fifth less than would be charged by an outfitter. After you have made your purchases the upholsterer will accompany you on board, and not only receive directions, but offer suggestions as to the arrangement of the furniture. The best rule to follow in judging of the linen necessary for each person is, to multiply the number required weekly of each article by 20— the probable number of weeks the passage will occupy—and this will leave some to spare on arrival; for although you may very soon get a few articles washed, yet it is some days, perhaps, before the linen can be obtained from the ship. If you touch and remain at the Cape a few days, it is easy to get washed a few clothes which may be requisite; for although it would be dangerous to trust linen to a washerwoman unrecommended, yet any respectable person in Cape Town will procure for the inquirer a trust- worthy person, and we have found them punctual in delivering the linen on the day appointed. It is right to observe, however, that from the short time which can be allowed, it cannot be bleached, and, consequently, is invariably of a bad colour. In addition to the body, bed, and toilet linen usually required by each person, there are some articles which must be added. These are 6 pairs of mosquito-drawers, which are very comfort- able to sleep in dui'ing the hottest period of the "voyage; 12 pairs of Irish linen, or white jean trousers—if flannel is worn next the skin, which should always be the case, the first is to be pre- ferred; 12 ditto jackets; 12 ditto waistcoats; 2 suits (jacket, waistcoat, and trousers) of blue camlet, to wear during the voyage. These are of the greatest use. One bag for dirty linen, or, which is better, deep baskets, such as those made in India, with the lid fastening down with a padlock, and usually to be met with at shops near the East India Docks. For packing clothes in, of course sny strong b'jxes may be employed ; but, if any have to be purchased, it is best to have the bullock-trunks, which may be obtained at any outfitting ware- house ; a looking-glass, with a sliding wooden guard ; 3 lbs. of Windsor soap ; 6 lbs. of short wax candles; a'Wooden bucket and rope to draw water for bathing ; a tin japanned water-can with a cover, to get the ship's allowance each day of fresh water for toilet purposes, and three or four boxes of lucifer matches. If a child be of the party and a lamp is required all night, 1 gallon of lamp-oil in a tin bottle, and a lamp- feeder must be taken, as well as double the number of lucifer matches. Several brass hooks fixed around the cabin will be found very con- venient. The following are the highest prices that will have to be paid, if the articles be bought at the upholsterers' near the docks :— £ s. d. Swing cot and screws - • -10 0 Mattress, bolster, pillow - .-1150 Two blankets and one quilt - -10 0 A bullock trunk • - . . 1 15 0 A looking-glass - - .-090 Sofa, with drawers under, and chintz cover - - - - --550 Pillow, counterpane, and blankets, as before Washhand-stand and pewter service 2 0 0 A leather brush-case and blacking - 1 5 0 Cabin lamp - -- - - - 0 12 0 Folding chair 0 8 0 Foot-bath 0 7 0 Bucket and rope - - .-050 Swing tray 0 10 0 Mahogany chest of drawers, brass- bound, dividing into two parts .500 Book-shelf 0 7 0 Those who intend to become housekeepers in India should take out with them table cutlery and china, for everything of this description is enormously dearer there than in England. CABOBS, BALL. Pound the meat, fat and lean, with a sufficient quantity of onions, garlic, curry powder, pepper, and salt. Mix all well together, make it up into balls, and fry them in butter. Serve them in a heap upon buttered or carried rice, or in a curried sauce on fried bread or parsley, or almost in any way, with plain boiled rice in another dish. CABOBS, CURRY.' Cut the meat into small, equal pieces, and thread them upon silver skewers, intermixed with garlic and onions; rub them over with ginger, sprinkle with vine- gar, dust them over with a little curry powder, and fry them in butter. CABOBS OF OYSTERS. Any of these different things must be properly cooked by themselves, excepting the fruit, which must be used raw. Make them as nearly of a size as possible, and thread them alternately in proper mixtures upon silver skewers in the following manner :—An oyster, a bit of liver, a bit of sweetbread, and so continue till the skewer is filled; or truffle, tongue, liver, calf's foot, mushroom, cockscomb, sturgeon, palate, morel, crayfish, sweetbread. To any of these may be added: apple, artichoke bottoms, cucumber or dried fruits, in which case a little sugar is to be added or Parmesan. This is an excellent dish, made up nicely of little remains that could not be presented alone; besides, there is no trouble, as they are all properly cooked. Hang these cabobs on a bird S})it, and baste them with butter and proper seasoning; or dip them in egg and butter, and baste them with crumbs mixed with truffle or mushroom, parsley, burnet. I