[ 276 ] CHE CHE with good toasting cheese, cut in thin shces without the crust. Toast it rather quickly, and serve it un hot. CHEESE, WELSH, or Gallimaufry. Mix in a mortar any kind of cheese with butter, mustard, and wine, or make it without butter if it is objected to, and with any flavoured vinegar. This makes excellent zests or sandwiches. CHEESECAKES. Cheesecakes should be put into the oven immediately they are made, otherwise they will become oily and look dis- agreeable. The oven should be of a moderate heat; for if too hot it will burn the cakes, if too slack they will be heavy. CHEESECAKES (1). Put a spoonful of rennet into a quart of milk. When turned drain the curd through a coarse sieve, gently break the curd, and rub in ^\h. of butter, Jib. of sugar, nutmeg, and 2 Naples biscuits grated, the yolks of 4 eggs and the white of 1 egg, ^oz. of almonds, | lb. butter, and I lb. suet, well beaten in a mortar, with 2 spoonsful of rose water, and 4ozs. of currants. Put in the curd, and mix all together. CHEESECAKES (2). Put some curd from the dairy into a mortar, with a bit of fresh butter, a little salt, the yolks of 3 eggs, and the white of 1 egg; rasp the peel of a lemon over some sugar, and put this also into a mortar; add 4 macaroons and a bit of sugar. Pound the whole together, and when very fine take it out of the mortar. Butter any quantity of tartlet moulds, according to your company; spread some puff-paste over the dresser, cut with a round cutter as many pieces as you have moulds, and put a spoonful of the preparation to each ; bake next in a pretty hot oven, and serve up hot with powder sugar. Sometimes you may glaze them with a salamander. CHEESECAKES, COMMON. Beat 8 eggs well while a quart of milk is on the fire, and when it boils put in the eggs and stir them till they come to a curd; then pour it out, and when it is cold put in a little salt, 2 spoonsful of rose water, and fib. of currants, well washed; put it into puff-paste and bake it. If you use tin patty pans to bake in, butter them, or you will not be able to take them out; but if you bake them in glass or china only an upper crust will be necessary, as you will not want to take them out when you send them to table. CHEESECAKES, COURT. Boil a bit of butter in a little water and a little salt; thicken it with as much flour as it will take, stirring it on the fire constantly until it becomes quite a paste; then mix some eggs with it one by one, to make it almost as liquid as a thick batter, and mix some good cream cheese with it. Bake it in good puff-paste, coloured with yolks of eggs, and serve it up either hot or cold. CHEESECAKES, CURD. Beat i pint of good curd with 4 eggs, 4 spoonsful of cream, some nutmeg, a little brandy, and i lb. of cur- rants. Sugar to the taste. CHEESECAKES, ST. DENIS. Mix a spoonful of flour with a fresh cream cheese, well drained, commonly called curds, a little salt, a proper quantity of eggs, and finish the same as for Court Cheesecakes. CHEESECAKES, FINE. Warm 1 pint of cream, add to it 5 quarts of milk warm from the cow, with some rennet; give it a stir about, and when the curd is come put it into a linen bag or cloth. Drain it well away from the whey, but do not squeeze it too much; put it into a mortar, and break the curd as fine as butter. Add to the curd ^Ib. of sweet almonds, blanched and beaten extremely fine, and -^^Ib. of maca- roons, or Naples biscuits beaten very fine; then put the yolks of 9 eggs beaten, a nutmeg grated, two perfumed plums dissolved in rose or orange-flower water, and |lb. of fine sugar. Mix all well together. Melt IJlb. of butter, and stir it well in; wet 1 lb. of fine flour with cold water, roll it out, put into it by degrees 1 lb. of fresh butter, and shake a little flour on each coat as it is rolled. The perfumed plums may be omitted or not, according to your taste. CHEESECAKES, FRENCH. Take some of the petits choux paste, made with water, mix with it some cream cheese that has been curdled cold, and then proceed in the usual way. CHEESECAKES, HARRISON. For the paste use 1 quart of fine flour, or more, 1 lb. of butter rubbed into the flour, with J lb. of sugar beaten fine, and 2 spoonsful of orange-flower water; make it into a paste, and lay it in the patty-pans for the curd. Take the yolks of 12 eggs, and beat them in 1 pint of very thick cream. When the cream boils up put in the eggs ; take it off, and put it in a cloth over a cullender; whey some new milk with rennet for the other curd. When you temper them together take lib. of currants, fib. of butter, i lb. of sugar, J oz. of nutmegs, 4 spoonsful of rose water, and bake them quick. CHEESECAKES, RICH PASTE FOR. Dry 1 lb. of the finest flour, mix with it 3 ozs. of refined sugar; then wash ^ lb. of butter with your hand till it comes to a froth ; put the flour into it by degrees, and work with it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of 3 eggs and the whites of 2 eggs. If too limber put some flour and sugar to make it fit to roll. Line your patty- pans, and fill; a little more than fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out have ready some refined sugar; beat up the white of an egg as thickly as you can, ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a very