I 306 ] CIT CIT acid. If any quantity is made it must be kept in a well-corked, dry bottle, in a dry, -warm place. CITEINE OINTMENT is one of the most effectual of applications for curing the inflam- mation and ulceration occurring so commonly about the roots of the eyelashes, and along the edge of the eyelid. A little of the ointment should be warmed and rubbed at bedtime well about the roots of the eyelashes, either by the point of the finger or by means of a camel's hair brush. It is really a nitrate of mercury ointment, and is prepared by dissolving 1 drachm of mercury in 2 drachms of nitric acid, and then mixing and beating together in a glass mortar this solution with 9 drachms of olive oil and 3 drachms of hog's lard which have been previously melted together. CITRON, AMERICAN. Pare a sufficient number of citron melons, and cut each melon into four thick quarters. Weigh them, and put them overnight into a tureen, or a large white- ware pan or basin. Prepare some very weak brine, allowing a table-spoonful of salt to a quart of water for every pound of citron. Pour the salt and water over the citron, cover it, and let it stand all night to draw out the sliminess. Prepare some alum water, allowing to each quart of water a bit of alum about the size of a grain of Indian corn. In the morning drain the citron from the brine, and wash every piece in alum water, which will green and clear it. After it has lain half an hour in the alum water drain the citron, and put it into a porcelain preserving kettle, allowing for every 4 lbs. of citron a large i pint of clear fresh water. There must be water enough to cover the citron and keep it from burning. Add to every 4 lbs. the yellow rind of a large lemon, grated or pared off very thin, and cut into shreds. Set the kettle over a clear fire, and boil it slowly till the citron is tender enough to be easily pierced through with a large needle; if it seems to be boiling dry add a little more cold water. When all are quite tender take out each piece sepa- rately with a fork, spread them out on a large dish, then strain and measure the liquid, and to each pint allow 1 lb. of the best double- refined loaf sugar; not the sugar that is sold ready powdered, as this is so adulterated with ground starch that it has little or no strength, and sweetmeats made with it are sure to spoil unless four times the usual quantity is put in. Having broken up the loaf sugar add it to the liquid in the preserving kettle, and let it boil, skimming it well, till it becomes a thick, rich, jelly-like syrup. It will most probably be boiled Bufliciently in half an hour. Next put in the pieces of citron one at a time, and boil them ten minutes or more in the syrup till it has thoroughly penetrated them. Afterwards take out the citron, spread it on a dish to cool, and transfer the syrup to a large pitcher. When cold put the citron into glass jars, and pour the syrup over it. Cover the tops with white paper dipped in brandy, and tie closely over each another covering of bladder that has been pre- viously soaked in water. The covers of lac- quered tin that belong to glass jars seldom fit perfectly tight, and are not to be trusted without another covering over them. This will be found a very fine sweetmeat. To dry it in imitation of foreign citron select some of the finest pieces, spread them on a dish, and set them for three days in the hot sun, turning each piece several times a day. Then make a hole near the end of each piece, run a twine string through them, and hang them on lines across an open sunny window. When sufficiently dry put them in tight jars or boxes, and keep them for use as citron in cakes or mince pies. Preserved citron may be candied after it has been five or six months in the syrup by taking out the pieces, spreading them on a dish, and boiling the syrup again till it is as thick as possible. It may require some additional sugar. Then pour it on the citron, and when it has grown cold, and has dried on the pieces, put them into a jar. When giving the citron its first boiling in the lemon-peel and water you may add to every 4 lbs. of citron ^ oz. of ginger root (if green and teniSer it will be better), or else a few pieces of preserved ginger. To increase the lemon flavour rub off upon some lumps of sugar, before you make the syrup, the yellow rind of two or three other lemons. CITRON, CANDIED. Pare the citrons very thin and narrow, and throw them into water ; these are called faggots. Then cut the citron into slices of any thickness you think proper; take out the inner part with great care, so as to leave only the white ring, and put them with the faggots into boiling water; when tender drain them. Boil a sufficient quantity of clari- fied sugar to souffle ; then put in the rings, and boil them together. Take it from the fire, and when a little cool rub the sugar against the side of the preserving pan with the back of a spoon. As soon as it becomes white take out the rings with a fork very carefully one by one, and lay them on a wire grate to drain ; boil, and proceed with the faggots in a similar way. When taken out cut them into proper lengths with a pair of scissors, and lay them also on the wire to drain. CITRON CHEESECAKES. Boil 1 pint of cream, and when cold mix with it S eggs well beaten; then boil them together until they become a curd. Beat a few blanched almond^