CAR CAR [ ] over the fire, taking care not to let them colour; add the carp roes to them, and let them simmer a minute. Make a round caisse, at the bottom of which lay a gratin; oil the caisse well, and put it on the gridiron over hot ashes ; place the roes on the gratin, and broil them thus. When done take them from the caisse, and dish them. CARP EOES, PIE OP. Make a farce as follows :—Take 1 lb. of pike or carp, and pound it well; then put with it J lb. of panada, and pound it again; add 1^ lb. of fresh butter, grated bacon or calf's udder. When it is all mixed add the yolks of 4 eggs, 4 spoonsful of fine herbs, 8 drachms of spiced salt, 1 spoon- ful of veloute, and J lb. of por-ided anchovies. Take a score of carp roes and a very fine tur- bot, cut them in pieces, weigh them, and put spiced salt proportioned to tlieir weight. Slightly warm 2 lbs. of fresh butter with 2 spoonsful of shallots, 4 spoonsful of parsley, champignons and truffles shred fine. Prepare your pie as usual. Garnish the bottom and sides with the farce, and lay it on some of the turbot. Season them with spiced salt, -and mask them with a spoonful of butilfer and sweet herbs, and a little of the farce ; then lay five of the carp roes, seasoned and masked as above, then the turbot, and so on till the dish is filled. Put in what- ever spice and farce which may remain, and over the whole lay slices of bacon. Cover the pie, and bake it for three hours and a half. When done remove the top, and pour in melted butter and sweet herbs CAEP ROES, RAGOtT OF. Soak slices of ham and veal about half an hour on a slow fire; then add a good bit of butter, with mush- rooms, 2 cloves, a faggot of sweet herbs, a little basil, a glass of white wine, a little veal gravy, and cuUis. Boil these till the veal is done, skim the liquor, and take out the veal and ham. Scald the roes of carp in hot water, and then boil them in this cullis about a quarter of an hour, skimming it well. It ought to be as thick as very good cream. Season it with pepper, salt, and a lemon squeezed. When ready serve it as an entremet. You may make it in maigre, but in that case you must have fish for the cullis instead of ham and veal. CARP SAUCE. Cut up a carp in large bits and put it into a stewpan with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, 2 onions, 1 carrot, and half a parsnip. Soak it till it catches a little ; then add a glass of white wine and good broth, a little culUs, a faggot of parsley, chibbal, a clove of garlic, two of spices, and laurel leaf. Simmer for an hour, skim it very well, and strain it in a sieve. CARP, STEWED. Bleed a brace of mid- dling-sized fish in some claret or red port, and stir the whole well all the time. After cleaning and scalding, but not washing the carp, put them into a stewpan, cover them with water, and throw in a handful of salt, some whole pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, a large onion, a little horseradish, and lemon-peel, with some white wine vinegar, and stew them slowly. When done take the pan off and cover it close. Then, for sauce, take some of the liquor in which the fish were stewed, and add to it 2 anchovies, some whole pepper, powdered mace, horseradish, lemon-peel, and a small onion. Boil the whole till the anchovies are dissolved, and put in the blood and wine with 2 spoonsful of rich gravy. When it boils up strain off the liquor, and, having thickened it with flour and butter, pour it over the carp. Garnish with slices of lemon, fried sippets of bread, and barberries. In Ger- many a substitute for wine is made of strong ale or beer, with grated gingerbread, and some colouring. CARP, STEWED (with Wine). Take a carp, being well cleaned, crimp it two or three times, set it in a stewpan with some good coii- somme, a bottle of Madeira, a little salt, a bay leaf, a few peppercorns. Let it stew gently be tween two fires till well done ; then take it out and lay it on a dish. The liquor must stew, with 3 table-spoonsful of sauce tournee, till tolerably thick. If not quite smooth squeeze it through a tammy; put in the juice of a lemon with a very little Cayenne pepper, and pour it over the fish, which must be garnished with veal forcemeat. CARPETS. These coverings for floors are of many kinds. Turkey carpets are woven with a long pile made entirely of wool; Persian, also long-piled, but some of the richest have floss silk mingled with the wool. Brussels is composed of wool woven on strong linen threads ; the best weigh If lbs. per yard. Wilton is Brussels with the worsted loops cut so as to form a short pile Royal Wilton, or velvet pile, has a still longer pile. Axminster is of linen threads and tufts of worsted woven upon them. Tliey are usually in one piece to fit the room. Kidderminster is woven of woollen threads only, and is not durable. Scotch is much the same. Dutch is yard-wide, like the Kidderminster, but stronger. Veneti-an is on hemp, cotton, or woollen threads, but well covered with the wool of the woof, and very durable. Carpeting is rather a momentous branch of household furniture. In our cold climate we require the floors of all the rooms and passages to be covered; and, even at the cheapest rate, it is the cause of considerable expense. Carpets in sitting-rooms, where the flooring is not of oak, are generally made to cover the whole room and to fit into all the corners and recesses. This is the handsomest way of laying them down;