BAT BAT [ 77 ] batli frequently repeated, has been of great service. Its stimulating effect is sometimes best pro- cured by a local application in the form of a stream of water falling on the head from a considerable height. The simplest example of this is the common practice of sprinkling the face with cold water in case of a tendency to faint; and in many diseases of the most dan- gerous character, it is a remedy superior to any other. It is called the cold dash, or douche, or dome, and is beneficially employed in fever, particularly when the brain continues the seat of inordinate action of the blood-vessels, after depletion has been carried as far as prudence will allow. (See the instructive case of Dr. Dill in Dr. Southwood Smith's " Treatise on Fever," p. 398.) It requires to be used with the greatest caution. Also in the state of stupor, or coma, which occurs in the last stage of hydrocephalus acutus, or water in the brain, it often succeeds in rescuing the patient from imminent danger. (See Abercrombie " On iDiseases of the Brain," first edit. 1828, p. 157.) Its utility is well known in the East in rousing drunken soldiers from their stupor so effectually as to enable them to rise up and apppear immediately on parade. In the melancholy and mania which overtake habitual drunkards it is of great ef&cacy, and also in cases of loss of nervous power from excessive mental exertion. In apoplectic stupor it has also been very advantageously employed. In the sinking stage of croup, when all other remedies have failed, cold affusion has some- times restored the functions of life to new action. The cooling or refrigerating effect of cold bathing is most desired in diseases where the animal heat rises above the proper standard, as in fevers, both continued and eruptive, especially scarlet fever; also, in some local inflammations, particularly of the brain. iFor the principles which should regulate our practice in this appli- cation we must refer to Dr. Currie and other writers, only remarking that in the hot and restless stage of scarlet fever, when the heat is steadily above the natural standard, the skin hot and dry, and neither sleep nor perspiration can be procured, a plunge into cold water will be followed by both, to the relief and often recovery of the patient. (See Bateman " On Cutaneous Diseases," edit. 1829, p. 120.) In applying cold locally, as in inflammation of the brain, one rule is of the utmost importance to be observed, viz., that the application of .the cold shall be continuous ; therefore a second 8Ct of cold cloths or bags of ice should be applied before the former has become warm. This plan, especially pursued during the night, along with judicious internal treatment, will save many children from perishing under the most insidious and fatal disease of childhood— water in the brain. The cases already mentioned are mostly acute diseases, where the cold affusion is employed to avert an imminent but temporary danger. It is generally in chronic diseases that the cold bath is employed for a length of time, and in these it is chiefly the secondary effect, the glow or reaction which is desired. The rules which are to be observed in order to obtain this effect, are founded upon the strength, which is generally inferred from the age of the individual. The degree of reaction is, for the most part, de- pendent upon the coldness of the water and the length of time the person remains in the bath. Very cold water, in which the person re- mains but a short time, will in general produce a greater degree of reaction than a more mode- rate temperature in which he remains longer. But here everything depends upon the general power of the individual, the state of the system, especially of the skin at the moment of immer- sion, and the nature of the bath, according as it is fresh or salt water, and also the season of the year. As the immersion of infants and young chil- dren in tubs of water must be considered as bathing, we deem it necessary here to explahi the principles upon which the temperature of the bath for them should be regulated, espe- cially during the season of winter. The experi- ments of Dr. Edwards (see Edwards " On the Influence of Physical Agents on Life," London, 1832,) have proved that the power of producing heat in warm-blooded animals is at its minimum at birth, and increases successively to adult age. It is clear, therefore, that water of a higher temperature than what feels cool to the hand of the nurse should be used, particularly in winter, when the power of regaining a proper degree of heat is necessarily less. The attempt to harden children, by exposure to too great a degree of cold, is of the most injurious nature. It either produces acute disease of the lungs, which are then very sensible to external im-^ pressions, or disease of the digestive organs, leading to disease of the mesenteric glands, scrofula, water in the brain, or, if they survive a few years, to early consumption. Delicate and feeble persons of all ages require a higher temperature of the bath, and a shorter stay in it than other people. If the reaction does not speedily take place, means must be employed to ensure its so doing, or the use of the cold bath must be abandoned. A tepid or temperate bath may be used in the early treatment of feeble persons, and the cold bath gradually substituted for it; or a glass of wine, or, which is far preferable, strong coffee or chocolate may