EEL EEL [ 456 ] tlien trim tlie eels as for pi-esent use; fry them in oil and a few bay leaves in three parts ; ■when they are nearly cold put them in an earthen pnt, pour the wine upon them, and the oil is used for frying with the bay leaves ; when they are quite cold cover the pot with leather or strong paper, and tie it fast. They will keep in a cool place for a great length of time. EELS, BAKED. Skin and clean some eels ; take a shallow pan, and cut the eels in lengths according to the depth of the pan ; put them in, letting them stand upright; the pan should be filled. Put in a little water, some salt, pepper, shallots cut small, some sweet herbs, and a little parsley cut small; set them in the oven to bake. When they are done take the liquor that comes from them, put it into a sauce- pan, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little white wine. EELS, BOILED. The smallest are best for boiling ; they should be boiled in a small quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which must be served up with them and the liquor. Serve with chopped parsley and butter for sauce. EELS, BROILED. Skin and cleanse your eels, rub them with the yolk of an egg, and strew over them bread crumbs, chopped parsley, sage, pepper, and salt. Baste them well with butter, and put them in a dripping-pan. Roast and hroil them, and serve them up with parsley and butter. EELS, BROILED (1 lTtalienne). If for an entree choose two moderate - sized eels, take off the skin, wash, bone, and dry them thoroughly; toss them in an egg beaten up with pepper and salt, and fry them of a good brown colour. Serve with a good Italian sauce under them. EELS, CONGER. See Conger Eel. EELS, ENTREE OF. Take some good- sized eels, bone them, and cut them into pieces about a finger in length; pass them over a slow fire in a small quantity of sweet herbs, shallots, pepper, salt, butter, and lemon juice. When they are three parts done put all on a dish; dip each piece in the liquor, bread crumb them, and boil them over a clear fire. Serve with anchovy sauce. EELS, FORCEMEAT OF. Take two fine eels, boil them till they are nearly done enough, and then put them into cold water; broil a perch, and when it is nearly done lay it to cool; take the meat from the bones of both fish, mince it, and add to it the liver of a cod, minced also; then season it with pepper and salt, sweet herbs picked from the stalks, some small onions minced, some scraped bacon, a little veal suet, a few bread crumbs, and a piece of butter; put the whole inJ:o a naortar, and beat it to a paste. It is used for fish pies, and adds a fine relish to all made dishes of fish. It may also be rolled up into balls, and fried or stewed. EELS, FRICASSEED. Skin three or four large eels, and notch them from end to end ; cut each of them into four or five pieces, and lay them for half an hour to crimp in spring water; dry them in a cloth, and put them in a pan, with a piece of fresh butter, a green onion or two, and a little chopped parsley. Set the pan on the fire, and shake it about for a few minutes ; then put in about a pint of white wine and the same quantity of stock, with pepper, salt, and a blade of mace. Stew together about half an hour ; then add the yolks of four or five eggs beaten very smooth, a little grated nutmeg, and some chopped parsley. Stir the whole well together, and let it simmer for a few minutes; then squeeze in the juice of a lemon; give the whole a good shake ; pour it into the dish, and serve it very hot. Garnish your dish with lemon. EELS, FRIED. If your eels are small they should be curled round, dipped into egg, and then nicely fried. If of a good size cut them into pieces; season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; flour them, and fry them in butter. EELS EN MATELOTE. Skin and wash some eels; cut them into three or four pieces; lay them between pieces of fat bacon, and con- somme enough to cover them, to which add a little carrot, onions, parsley, peppercorns, salt, bay leaf, and one clove of garlic; stew them till well done, and let them stand in their liquor till nearly cold; then take them out, trim them, lay them on the dish, to which add a few rolls of very good veal forcemeat blanched, and pour over the whole a good bechamel sauce, and a liaison gently mixed in. EELS, PICKLED. Take some eels, skin them, slit them down the belly, take out the bones, and rub them all over with salt; let them lie three days, and turn them every day; then take them out of the brine, wash them in water, and wipe them dry with a cloth; season them with nutmeg, cloves, mace, and a bay leaf; roll them in a collar, tie them tightly in a cloth, and boil them in an equal quantity of white wine and vinegar. When they are tender take them out of the liquor, and set them to cool; when they are cold put them into the same liquor again; if there is not liquor enough boil some more vinegar, white wine, and spices ; set them upon their ends while cooling, and they will keep their shape much better. EELS, POTTED. Rip open the eels, bone, and put them into pieces ; wash and well dry them, season them highly with pepper, salt, and nutri^eg ; put them into a pot; lay on pieces of