[ 175 1 BUN in colour, and covered at first with a glutinous substance, which afterwards dries and hardens, and by its means each egg becomes generally- attached and fastened to a small hair-like stalk, or to any other object with which it comes in contact. The female lays fifty eggs at a time, and the usual periods for depositing them are the months of March, May, July, September; and thus every female bug that lives through the season may produce two hundred young ones. Three weeks are required for the hatch- ing of the eggs, at the end of which time the young bugmal?e3 his appearance under the form of a large, lively larva, or grub, nearly resembling his parent, except in size, the structure of the feelers, and a few minor differences; and having undergone the usual transformations, becomes in about three months a perfect insect. There have been for no vermin, perhaps, a greater number of specifics prescribed and ad- ministered than for bugs; while the greater number of them have, unfortunately, been found on trial to fail in the certainty of their eradica- tion, and we should, therefore, feel a reluctance to add to the number of these proposed reme- dies, and a doubt of the efficacy of the new ones we have to add to the list, had not the circum- stances, under which their perfect success has been tested, been of a character so highly favour- able to the production of these disgusting ver- min, and every other method previously adopted and resolutely practised failed to remove them. The first remedy is a saturated solution of alum; it being only necessary to reduce common alum to powder, and dissolve as much as possible of it in hot water, until the powder remains un- dissolved at the bottom. This strong alum- water is then to be applied hot, by means of a brush, to every joint and crevice of the room which could harbour the insects. Get 9 lbs. of alum, and having bruised or powdered it, dissolve it in 3 or 4 quarts of boiling water, letting it remain in a warm place, and stirring frequently until the solution is completed. After washing and scouring the suspected furniture and floors all over with soap and water, take a brush, and apply the alum-water to every part, especially the cracks and crevices; and for the walls add alum to the whitewash. The second remedy is, perhaps, even more effectual, but has objections to its use on account of the strong odour which for a few days it diffuses on evaporation, and that is, the common spirit of naphtha of com- merce, now so much employed for a variety of other purposes, and to be procured at a cheap rate. This is to be applied in its ordinary cold state, in the same manner as the alum-water. It need scarcely be added that extreme vigilance and cleanliness must form the indispensable accompaniment of any and every process for the secure exemption from the bug, or any other species of vermin of an odious and insidious character.—[Magazine of Domestic Economy ) BUG BITES. iSWAdder. BUGLOSS (Anchusa officinalis) was formerly admitted among medicinal plants, and the slight bitterness in the flowers may render them some- what tonic; but if they had not been given in wine by ancient herbalists they would not have been for their merits included among the four cordial flowers, BULLACE CHEESE (with the Skins). Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar on a hot hearth or in a saucepan of water. Pour off some of the juice, and to every 2 lbs. of fruit weigh ^ lb. of sugar. Set the fruit in a pan over the fire; let it boil quickly till it begins to look dry; take out the stones, add the sugar, stir it well, and simmer it slowly for two hours; then boil it quickly half an hour. The jam may then be poured into potting pans. BULLACE CHEESE (without the Skins), Bake or boil the fruit as above, but, instead of taking out the juice, beat the bullaces through a coarse sieve; then proceed as before, crack the stones, and boil the kernels with the jam. The sugar must not be added until the juice has evaporated. BULLACES : To Presf.rve. Prick the fruit, throw it into scalding water for a minute, take it clear from the water, and strew over it powdered lump sugar. The next day pour off the syrup, boil and skim it, pour it over the bullaces, and let it stand a day cr two. Boil the syrup again, put in the fruit, and boil them together (be careful not to mash them), and then put the preserves into jars; when cold put bnuidy papers. To 1 lb. of i'ruit allow i, lb. of sugar. BULLOCK. See Bkf.f. BUNION. This chiefly differs from a corn iu being larger and always on the ball of the great toe. It commences hy a thickening of the skin and then a bag forming in the skin attended by inflammation, and the forming of serum, or limpid matter. If the pressure causing the thickening is removed, and all causes of irritating the part avoided, the inconvenience is speedily removed. Otherwise inflammation increases, and leeches, poultices, and the lancet to- allow the escape of the matter are necessary. If the abscess does not speedily heal nitric acid should be carefully applied to its inner surface; but all this should be done by a surgeon, for wounds about the joints of the feet often end in ampu- tation and even lock-jaw. The commencement of a bunion generally takes place in youth. Children complain that their shoes pinch them across the foot, on the side of the great toe joint, which soon, if not attended to, begins to enlarge,