BRO BRO [ 171 1 delicate people. If, instead of boiling water, the fat skimmings of soup be poured upon the oatmeal, that vaunted Scotch dish,/ai brose, is the rich and indigestible result. We mention this as a caution to those who may be tempted at any time to try the dish. It requires extra- ordinary power to digest it without inconve- nience. See Beef Bkose. BROTH, a liquor in which the flesh of animals has been boiled, and which is rendered palatable by the addition of herbs, &c. If other ingredients be used, such as rice, pearl-barley, oatmeal, &c., it is then generally called soup. It is a common error to act as if broth is more easily digested than solid food. And though we are countenanced in this opaiion by the most enlightened physicians of the age, yet we fear that old customs and deep-rooted preju- dices will continue to prevail, while supported by so many old women besides those of the faculty. Perhaps nothing but experimental conviction of the contrary can produce a change of sentiments imbibed with the mother's milk. Mutton broth, veal broth, and chicken broth are such comfortable things when the appetite is disordered and the stomach fastidious, that they are generally administered in all states of fever, without any regard to the nature of the disease, or the constitution of the patient. In this preposterous manner the stomach is inundated and the bowels are drenched till all their tone and vigour are irrecoverably destroyed. Indeed, from the slight degree of attention paid to the subject of diet, an accurate observer may be led to conclude that the stomach is destined for a certain time to serve the purpose of a laboratory, where the effect of medicines is to be ascertained before the vessel to be used in this chemical process has acquired sufficient vigour to with- stand the attack. Yet such is the infatuation of the multitude that they would rather en- courage the prosperous commerce in emetics and purgatives than listen to suggestions which tend to confute spurious notions, and, by cor- recting their former errors, would eventually deprive them of many favourite cups and dishes. Thus we are not vain enough to flatter ourselves with producing such a change on the prevailing manner of living as to banish either teas or broths to their proper places—the apothecaries' shops—and to substitute in their room more wholesome articles of nutriment; though we are firmly persuaded, from reason and daily experience, that the physical order of things has also been perverted in the present age, and tliat the swallowing of drugs is not a primary but a secondary object in the cure of diseases. BROTH: To Clarify. Put on the broth in a clean stewpan ; break the white and shell of an egg, beat them together, put them into the broth, and stir it with a whisk. When it has boiled a few minutes strain it through a tammy or a napkin. BROTH, FAT. Boil part of a round of a leg of beef with other meat; take out the gravy and broth, strain it through a napkin, boil them a second time, and take out the broth again, keeping both these sorts apart. The first will be good to put to capons, turkey poults, veal, and other forcemeats, to be served in white soups. Capon or veal broth ought to be used to soak young pigeons for bisque, and with the broth of the bisques a cullis may be made for soup d la reine or d la royale. The broth of the forcemeats will serve to make a cullis for the same sorts of meat; as young turkeys and pullets, knuckles of veal, and other sorts of meat that ought lo be forced and parboiled. The second sort of broth is to be put into brown soups, or ducks, teal, rabbits, wood pigeons, pheasants, &c., or of vegetables, roots, &c., and the brown ingredients will serve to thicken them, and are to be mixed with the same broth. BROTH, FISH. Take tench, carp, pike, and eels; prepare them for boiling, cut them in pieces, and put them into a kettle of water, with salt, butter, an onion stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs, Let it boil an hour and a half; then strain it through a napkin and divide it into three lesser kettles. Into one of them put mushrooms, and strain them through a sieve, with a cullis, a sliced lemon, and some fried wheaten flour. BROTH OF FRAGMENTS. When you dress a large dinner you may make good broth, or portable soup, at very small cost, by taking care of all the trimmings and parings of the meat, game, and poultry you are going to use. "Wash them well and put them into a stewpnn with as much cold water as will cover them ; set your stewpan on a quick fire ; when it boils take off all the scum, and set it on again to simmer gently ; put in 2 carrots, 2 turnips, a large onion, 3 blades of pounded mace, and a head of celery; some mushroom parings will be a great addition. Let it contitme to simmer gently four or five hours; strain it through a sieve into a clean basin. This will save a great deal of expense in buying gravy-meat. BROTH, MEAGRE. Set on a kettle of water, put in 2 or 3 crusts of bread, and all sorts of good herbs; season with salt; put in butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; boil it an hour and a half; then strain it through a sieve or napkin. This will serve to make lettuce soup, asparagus soup, soupe de saiUe, &c., with herbs. BROTH OF ROOTS. Take a quart of peas, boil them till tender; bruise them to ^