BED [ 86 ] BED monary and hectic complaints. The bolster should be stuffed with horsehair, and covered with a small pillow filled with feathers. The bedding might consist either of sheets with blankets and a counterpane, or a single cover thinly quilted with cotton wool. The latter might be easily washed, and will last for several years. In very cold seasons a counterpane, quilted with a few pounds of soft feathers, might be substituted for the former; but it should not be used in summer. The use of feather beds, excepting in cold climates and seasons, is highly injurious. It is certainly hurtful in many diseases, and some are actually occasioned by that pernicious prac- tice. Feather beds imbibe the perspired vapours thrown out of the body; and unless they are frequently and carefully shaken, aired in the sun, and provided with a new covering, the noxious vapours thrown out of the body may be resorbed, to the great injury of the health. Indeed, such beds should be exposed every morning to the open air before they are made up. They are particularly calculated for camp- beds, not being so apt to become damp. The observations of Locke upon this subject are extremely judicious. He remarks that the bed should be hard for strengthening the parts : whereas being buried every night in feathers, melts and dissolves the body, is often the cause of weakness, and the forerunner of an early grave. Warmth about the kidneys, the neces- sary consequence of sleeping on down beds, is very apt to induce the stone, and to occasion other disorders. But though mattresses made of hair or straw ought to be preferred in hot countries, and in warm seasons of the year, yet in northern cli- mates, where people are much accustomed to use feather beds in winter, bad consequences have arisen by exchanging them for mattresses during the cold season of the year; and it has been found very apt to call forth gouty or rheumatic affections in those who have a tendency to such complaints. With regard to the bolster, it should be well stuffed and elastic. Some recommend that it should be filled with feathers in winter, and with horsehair in summer ; but others contend that it should be always stuffed with horsehair, as it is proper to keep the head cool. The pillow should be so disposed as to suit the usual manner you have adopted of placing your head, so as to be perfectly easy. Several mattresses or feather beds are laid one above the other, in order to raise the couch to the height that it is required; but the modern fashion, by which it is necessary to ascend the bed by steps, is absurd and dangerous, and it must be attended with some hazard, ascending or descending, more especially for the aged or invalids. It is highly improper for young people to sleep in beds overloaded with clothes. They heat the blood more than is consistent with health, and produce an immoderate and ener- vating perspiration, which still more weakens the organs already relaxed by sleep. But to old people warm bed-clothes are highly proper and necessary, in order to preserve or increase their heat. From neglecting to attend to that circumstance in very cold countries, the aged have often been found dead in their beds in thfe morning after a cold night. Mauklin, the player, when he got old, always slept in blankets for the sake of warmth ; and the late Dr. Chovet, of Philadelphia, who lived to be eighty-five, slept in a baize nightgown, under eight blankets and a coverlid, in a stove-room, many years before he died. In regard to bed-clothes, the most comfortable discovery hitherto made was the invention of sheets, by means of which, dress may be thrown off with comfort, and the body almost in a state of nature given up to repose ; whilst by woollen coverings, or blankets, in number or thickness adequate to the warmth required, the body is kept in a proper and equal temperature. Nothing, however, has proved more injiuious to health than damp linen. If there is any fear of dampness, the sheets should be removed, and repose taken between the blankets. Cotton sheets are much pleasanter in winter than linen sheets. The use of curtains has been objected to ; but they are in some degree necessary to exclude the light, which, at least in the summer season, might discompose the slumbers at too early a period; and in winter they are useful to exclude the cold. The old custom of warming the bed deserves to be particularly reprobated, as it has a direct tendency to produce weakness and debility. It is still more dangerous when done with a char- coal fire, the poisonous vapours of which must be highly pernicious. With a view to health, it is desirable that beds, instead of being made up as soon as people rise out of them, should be turned down and exposed to the fresh air from open windows for some time. The bed should never be placed near a wall, more especially if there is any risk of its being damp, or in any country where lightning is frequent; for a flash of lightning, accidentally entering through the window, will take its direction along the walls, without touching any- thing that is not close to them. Beds shut up in close alcoves are extremely objectionable. The gi-eatest care ought to be taken to beat