BAR BAR [ 69 ] Entire, it is given as food to horses; and pearl barley and barleymeal are used by man, especially in northern countries. The former is eaten boiled until it is soft, either simply with some condiment, as salt, sugar, currants, cinnamon, or made into broth with meat, either alone or with other vegetables. The flour is used in the form of porridge and unleavened cakes. It cannot be made into bread, and is incapable of the panary fermentation, which is owing to the small proportion of gluten in its composition. It is probably for the same reason that it is less nutritious. On the other hand, it has the advantage of having no tendency to induce constipation, so that some persons, who are habitually costive, derive great advantage from the use of barleymeal cakes and porridge. Hufeland highly praises what he calls prepared barleymeal as a nutritious food, easy of diges- tion, and devoid of all stimulus in atrophic diseases and hectic fever. It is prepared by tying barleymeal up in a cloth and boiling it till everything soluble is removed. On the contrary, it is the soluble part which is made use of in barley water. BARLEY BROTH. To 4ozs. of Scotch barley, washed in cold water, add the same quan- tity of sliced onions; put them into 5 quarts of water, boil gently an hour, and then pour it into a pan. Next put into a saucepan from 1 oz. to 2 ozs. of beef or mutton-dripping, clari- fied or melted suet, or 2 ozs. or 3 ozs. of fat bacon, chopped small. When melted, stir in 4 ozs. of oatmeal, and rub these together till they be- come a paste; then put it in the barley broth by spoonsful, gradually, and stir the whole till it boils. Season it by putting into a tea- cup 1 drachm of pounded celery or cress seed, J drachm of pounded Cayenne, or 1^ drachm of black pepper or allspice; then mix a little of this with the soup, pour it into the rest, simmer the whole a quarter of an hour, add salt, and it is ready. BARLEY BROTH (Scotch). Wash f lb. of Scotch barley in some cold water, put it into a soup-kettle with a shin or leg of beef, or a knuckle of veal, of about 10 lbs. weight, divided into four pieces; cover the whole well with cold water; set it over the fire; when it begins to boil, skim it clean and put in two large onions ; set it by the side of the fire to simmer gently about two hours ; take off all the fat, and put in two heads of celery and a large turnip cut in small pieces; season the whole with salt, and let it boil an hour and a half longer. Take out the meat and skim the broth carefully before you put it into the tureen. By making the soup the day beforehand and letting it stand to cool, i much fat may be taken off, which, when clarified, will be useful for drippings. BARLEY CREAM. Boil a little pearl barley in milk and water till tender, and then strain off the liquor. Put the barley into one quart of cream and let it just boil. Take the whites of 5 eggs and the yolk of 1 egg, and beat them up with 1 spoonful of fine flour and double that quantity of orange-flower water. On taking the cream from the fire, mix in the egg by degrees, and then set the pan on again. Sweeten the cream to your taste, and when thick pour it into basins. BARLEY GRUEL. Take 3 ozs. of pearl barley, of which make 1 quart of barley water. If not to be white, shift it once or twice; put in 2 ozs. of currants, clean picked and washed, and when they are plumped, pour out the gruel, and let it cool a little ; then put in the yolks of 3 eggs, well beaten, ^ pint of white wine, and i pint of new thick cream, and some lemon- peel ; then sweeten with fine sugar to taste; stir it gently over the fire until it is as thick as cream. BARLEY POSSET. Boil 1 lb. of French barley in 3 quarts of milk; when boiled enough, put in 3 quarts of cream, some cinnamon and mace ; sweeten it with sugar; let it stand until it is but just warm; then put in 1 quart of white wine; froth it up. To be eaten either with a spoon or the liquor may be pressed out to drink. BARLEY SUGAR (1). Put clarified syrup {see Syrup) into a saucepan, and boil it to a carimel height [see Carimel), taking off the scum as it rises. Having prepared a marble slab with butter or oil, pour the syrup along it in long slips ; then twist it while hot at each end, and let it stand till cold. Rasped lemon- peel boiled in the syrup enriches the flavour much. Barley-sugar drops are made nearly in the same way; only, when the sugar is boiled, pour it out in drops from a ladle on white paper covered with sifted sugar. BARLEY SUGAR (2). Boil some clarified sugar until it reaches that state that on dipping the finger into the pan the sugar which adheres to it will break with a slight noise ; this is called crack. When the sugar is nearly in this state, put in two or three drops of lemon-juice, or as much vinegar, to keep it from graining or crys- tallising ; also a drop of citron-juice, which will greatly improve the flavour. When it has come to the crack state, take the pan off from the fire instantly, and dip it into cold water to pre- vent the sugar bui'ning. Let it remain for a few minutes, and then pour it on a marble slab which has been oiled previously. Cut the cake of sugar into long slips, and make it into any form desired. BARLEY SYRUP. Make of 1 lb. of barley 8 quarts of barley water; strain out the barley.