BRI [ 168 ] BRO B'RIOCHE FRITTERS. Cut some small brioche in halves, take out the middle, and put in some kind of sweetmeat or made-cream; put the two halves of each together so that they may appear whole; dip them in a paste made of flour, a little oil, salt, and white wine; fry them of a gold colour, and glaze them with sugar. Pass a salamander over. BRIOCHE STITCH. Bring the wool for- ward ; slip a stitch under; knit two together. Every row is alike. BRISKET. See Beef and Carving. BRISTOL CAKES. Mix up Jib. of flour with \ lb. each of pounded lump sugar and fresh butter, 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. When well worked together in a bowl, add ^ lb. of currants ; then rub a tin plate over with butter, drop on it the mixture to form each cake, from a table-spoon, and set it in a brisk oven. BRISTOL HOT WELL. This celebrated spring is situated at the bottom of a lofty cliff, called St. Vincent's Rock, on the banks of the Avon, and about a mile distant from the city of Bristol. The air is genial and salubrious from its agreeable southern exposure, being sheltered by high ridges of dry limestone cliffs from the bleak north and east winds, and likewise from the boisterous west. It is, therefore, well cal- culated in every respect to renovate the health and spirits of the invalid, and, from its mild atmosphere, to be a winter residence. The hot-well water is extremely clear and sparkling, and separates numerous air bubbles when poured into a glass. It has no decided taste or smell, although rather agreeable than otherwise to the palate. Its average temperature is pretty steadily at 74° Fahr. during winter and summer. Its specific gravity is only l'000-77, which ap- proaches so nearly to that of distilled water, that this circumstance alone sufficiently proves its purity. Among the numerous chemical investigations of this water the analysis by Dr. Carrick is, per- haps, the most accurate. It gives the following contents in a wine gallon :—• Grains Chloride of magnesium . • • • . 7 y,5 Chloride of sodium . 4'00 Sulphate of soda 11'25 Sulphate of lime . , . ..... 11-75 Carbonate of lime ...*•... 13-50 47-75 Cubic Inches Carbonic acid ptas 30 Atmospheric air .■>>«... 3 33 This water is entirely an internal remedy. Its sensible effects, when warm and fresh from the spring, are generally a gentle sensation of warmth in the stomach, and sometimes a slight degree of headache and giddiness; but these symptoms are only transient, and may speedily be removed by a gentle aperient. It increases, in most cases, the flow of urine, and the perspir- able state of the skin; but it has a tendency to constipate the bowels, which effect should be obviated by the requisite remedy. Its operation is highly salutary in several dis- orders of the alimentary canal, in those dyspeptic symptoms with which Europeans who have long resided in hot climates are commonly afflicted, in chronic, bilious diarrhoeas, and mild dysen- teries. It has afforded relief in diabetes, by rendering the system more sensible to the im- pressions of the appropriate medicines; but the high reputation which it has acquired is above all in alleviating some of the most distressing symptoms of pulmonary consumption, as the harassing thirst, the dry, burning heat of tlie hands and feet, the partial night sweats, and all those symptoms which are peculiarly hectical. From the relief which it thus affords, even in the advanced periods of this formidable disease, it may materially contribute, in the early stages of it, to a re-establishment of health. The season for the hot well is from the middle of May to October, to combine the advantage of air and exercise. The following is the usual mode of taking the water:—Two glasses should be taken as early in the morning as the invalid's time of rising will permit, with half an hour spent in gentle exercise interposed between them; and this quantity should be repeated in the same manner midway between breakfast and dinner. The size of the glass should be from ^ pint to ^ pint, which last may be considered a full dose. At no time should it be taken in such a quantity as to cause any oppression or sense of weight in the stomach. As the effects of this water are extremely gradual, the duration of a course of it must necessarily be for a long time, to experience the full benefit arising from its use. Another spring, resembling the hot well, is at Clifton, called Sion Spring, equally noted for cures in similar diseases.—(Mackenzie.) BRITANNIA METAL is made of equal parts of tin, brass, antimony, and bismuth, forming an excellent alloy for making tea-pots and other utensils. The best mode of cleaning them is to wash them with warm soap and water, to wipe them dry with a soft cloth, and to polish them with a little dry whiting and a soft leather. BROCADE: To Clean. Nothing cleans brocaded articles, gold and silver lace, and similar things, so well, without after-injury to them, as spirit of wine. It should be applied with a soft