BUR BUN [ 177 ] proved, ice tlieni with the white of an egg beaten to a froth; lay some pounded sugar over that, and dissolve it with water splashed from the icing-brush. Bake ten minutes. BUNTINGS. Having singed, blanched, and trussed the birds, lard and fry them; put them into a stewpan with some good gravy or broth, and when tender add sweetbreads cut in pieces and fried, a few mushrooms and morels, and 10 or 12 blanched chestnuts. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Put into another pan i lb. of butter, a handful of flour, 2 onions, and 1 pint of gravy. Brown them, and then put in the birds, &c., and stew the whole together some time. Take it off and set it to cool; line a saucepan, having buttered it well, with thin slices of bacon; cover them with forcemeat half an inch thick. On this place the buntings, the breast downwards, with the rest of the ragout; take away the bacon and onion, and squeeze the juice of a lemon. Cover the whole with a layer an inch thick of forcemeat, press it close and smooth it with a knife, brush it over with egg, strew bread- crumbs over, and bake it an hour. When wanted for table loosen it from the saucepan with a knife, and turn it on a dish. Squeeze the juice of an orange on it and serve. BURGLARIES. Against the practised burglar, shutters, bars, bolts, locks, or, indeed, fastenings of any kind avail but little. An old convict burglar stated that what most baffled him was: 1st, a small dog in the lower part of the house ; 2nd, a light in the house ; 3rd, bells on a spring handle fixed inside to the shutters and doors. BURGOUT, SCOTCH. This dish possesses the grand qualities of salubrity, pleasantness, and cheapness. It is, in fact, a sort of oatmeal hasty pudding without milk, much used by those patterns of 'combined industry, frugality, and temperance—the Scottish peasantry; and this, among other examples of the economical Scotch, is well worthy of being occasionally adopted by all who have large families and small incomes. It is made in the following easy and expeditious manner:—To 1 quart of oatmeal add gradually 2 quarts of water, so that the whole may smoothly mix; then, stirring it continually over the fire, boil it together for a quarter of an hour; after which take it up, and stir in a little salt and butter, with or without pepper. This quantity will serve a family of five or six persons for a moderate meal. BURGUNDY PITCH is the resin obtained from the common spruce-fir [Pines abies). It is used in the formation of various plasters. The usual Burgundy pitch plaster. The fol- lowing is the formula directed by the London Medical College; but, of course, smaller quan- tities in similar proportions may be mixed to- gether for family use:—Take of Burgundy pitch. 2 lbs.; frankincense, lib.; yellow resin and yel- low wax, of each 4 ozs.; expressed oil of mace, 1 oz.; olive oil, and water, of each 2 ozs. fluid. To the pitch, resin, and wax melted together, add first the frankincense, and then the oil of mace, olive oil, and water. Mix the whole,, and boil down to a proper consistence. This is a very common and useful domestic application, when a continued local stimulus is wanted, without much risk of exciting blisters or pustules. Some irrit- able habits are, however, unable to support it. This plaster is a very useful application in the catarrhal complaints of infants, and even of adults ; and in slight affections of the liver, and rheumatic pains of the trunk of the body. It is generally worn for several days, or until it drops off, in consequence of the perspiration confined beneath it. BURGUNDY WINE. The wines of Bur- gundy are ranked under three different names, distinguished by marks peculiar to each. The wines of Basse-Bourgogne are less spirituous, less full-flavoured and fragrant than those of the Cote d'Or. They are brisker, and pre- serve for a long time a weak portion of the roughness of the Bordeaux wines. The wines of Haute-Bourgogne possess all the qualities of perfect wine. In these the body does not injure their delicacy. Their lightness does not arise from want of strength, warmth, or flavour, and the spirit does not render them too intoxicating. Wines of Maqon differ in having less perfume. Their substance is more thick and less delicate, without being clammy. Wines of L'Yonne. The plants generally cultivated are, Le Pineau, black and white ; Le Tresseaii, Le Rongain, and Le Gamine. This last is a great bearer, but spoils all the wine. It would be well if the order of Charles IX., forbidding the planting of infame Gamme, were revived. In the district of Sens and Gorgny are also cultivated Le Saimioreau, Le Metier, and Le Gros. Red Wines of the First Quality. Dane- moine, near Tonnerre. Here is situated the famous spot called des Olivotes. The wines are of a good colour, much body, and particularly spirituous, and are at the same time light and delicate. They have also seve and bouquet. They should be bottled after three years, and will keep a long time. The country of Ton- nerre has many distinguished cms, as those of Pitoy, de Perriere, and des Preaux. Auxerre. Tho best vineyards are upon the mountain, called La Grande Cote d'Auxerre. It is covered with vines, and planted with the Pineau Noir. Les Clos de la Chainette and de Migrenne hold the first rank. The first produces heady wines, light and delicate, with a seve and bouquet. The