FLO FLE [ 509 ] phur, and fumigation with the leaves of penny- royal, or the fresh-gathered foliage of that plant sewn up in a bag, and laid in the bed, are also remedies pointed out for the expulsion of fleas. The most effectual and speedy way to get rid of fleas on dogs is to pour sweet or train oil along the back, from the top of the rump to the back of the head, rubbing the sides, haunches, and flanks well with the hand until the oil be well incorporated with the hair. If this be done properly there will not remain a living flea on the animal in ten minutes after the application. They will throw themselves out upon the surface of the hair of a yellow colour, with legs, &c., extended, and die almost instantaneously. FLEMISH SOUP. Slice six onions and twelve potatoes, and cut six heads of celery into small pieces ; put I lb. of butter into a sauce- pan with half a pint of water ; then set it over the fire to simmer for half an hour, after which fill up the saucepan with some of your best stock. Let the whole boil until the vegetables are dissolved ; then rub it through a tamis, and add to it a pint of boiled cream. FLIES. The simplest mode of destroying them, and without danger to any other living creature, is to pour half a pint of boiling water upon J oz. of quassia chips, to sweeten the liquor with sugar or treacle, and expose it in plates to the visits of the flies. FLIP, EGG. SeeEoa Flip. FLOATING ISLAND. Put a deep glass dish in one of china, sweeten a quart of thick cream with powder sugar, pour in a gill of mountain wine, and rasp thereto the yellow part of a lemon; whisk the cream, and put the thin froth into a dish. Cut some Naples biscuits very finely, put a layer of them on the cream, then a layer of currant jelly, then another of biscuit, and over that the rest of the cream. Garnish at pleasure. FLOATING ISLAND OF APPLES. Bake or scald two or three lai'ge sharp apples ; when cold pare and pulp them through a sieve ; beat the pulp with fine sugar, and the whites of three eggs that have been beaten with a little rose water ; mix it a little at a time, beat till light, and lay it on almond custard, or jelly. FLOOR CLOTHS. These are best cleaned and preserved by being dry rubbed every day, for mopping them spoils and wears them out soon, besides causing the sides to turn up. Cleaning them occasionally with milk, and dry rubbing them when dry, will make them look as bright as when new. Wax renders them sticky, and retentive of dust and dirt. FLOORS. [See Boards.) The best wood that can be selected for this purpose is yellow deal thoroughly seasoned, which, if well laid, will for a long time retain its colour; whereas tho wldte sort, by frequent washing, becomes black, and presents a disagreeable appearance. The joints of the boards are usually made plain, so as barely to touch each other; but as the materials are not always perfectly dry the boards not unfrequently shrink, and the water runs through them every time they are washed, by which the ceiling underneath is injured. To remedy this inconvenience they should always be made either with edges so as to fold over each other about half an inch, or with what is called dovetails. In the latter case the lower edge is nailed down, and the next driven into it, so that the nails are effectually concealed. To keep oak floors brown without washing strew tansy, mint, balm, fennel, or other green sweet herbs on the boards well swept, and rub thera all over the wood with a long hard brush till it is scubbed clean. When the wood or boards are quite dry the herbs should be swept off, and the boards, being well dry rubbed with a dry rubbing brush, will look like mahogany, and have an agreeable smell. Greasy spots may be taken out by laying a little ox-gall on at night, and washing them well next morning with a little brush and clean flannel, with some strong lye ; but if the spots be slight a little clay or fullers' earth will do ; or, if they be dirt or marlcs of feet, dry rubbing will remove tliera, and after these operations the boards will keep a long time bright and brown with only using a little hard brush. To polish oak floors rub them with bees' wax, and then with a hard brush loaded with lead, and fixed to a long handle. FLORENDINE OF HARE. Case a hare that has hung four or five days, leave the ears on, but take out the bones except tho»e of the head. Make a stuffing of bread crumbs, the liver chopped, ^ lb. of fat bacon scraped, a glass of red wine, one anchovy, two eggs, some winter savory, sweet marjoram, thyme, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Put this into the belly, roll it up to the head, and fasten it tightly; boil it in a cloth an hour and a half with two quarts of water, and when reduced to orte-half put in a pint of port wine, a spoonful of lemon pickle, and as much catsup and browning. Stew till reduced to a pint, thicken with butter rolled in flour, and lay I'ound the hare morels and slices of force- meat boiled in the caul of a joint of veal. On dishing draw the jaw-bones, and stick them in the sockets of the eyes. Let the ears lie back, and put myrtle or parsley into the mouth. Strain the sauce over it, garnish with bar- berries and parsley, and serve it hot. FLORENDINE OF VPJAL. Take two kidneys with the fat, mince thera finely, and put to them some chopped herbs, with a few curi'ants, an apple or two cut small, candied