DYE DYE [ 443 ] obtaining which thei"e are ten different ingre- dients; but four of these only yield a good and permanent dye, namely, dyers' weed, or, as the dyers call it, weld, savory, dyers' green-weed, and fenugreek. The first of these, namely, weld, in general affords the truest yellow, and is therefoie pre- ferred to all the others. Savory and dyers green- weed, being naturally somewhat green, are more advantageously employed for dyeing that colour; and the last yields different shades of yellow. In order to dye worsted and stuffs yellow they undergo the usual preparation with tartar and alum. Of the latter 4 ozs. are allowed to every pound of wool, or So lbs. to every 100 lbs. Of the former 1 oz. is sufficient for yellow. After dissolving both the wool is boiled in the same manner as in the preceding colour. A fresh liquor is next to be made for the welding or yellowing, in the proportion of 5 lbs. or 6 lbs. of dyers' weed to every pound of stuff. Sopie inclose the drug in a clean woollen bag to pre- vent it from mixing with the cloth to be dyed, and in order to keep the bag down in the copper they lay a cross of heavy wood over it. Others boil the weld in the liquor till the water has imbibed all its colour, and the drug sinks to the bottom, when the stuff is suspended in a net. Others, again, take the weld out as soon as it is boiled. According to the shade I'equired other vegetables are occasionally mixed with that drug. By varying the proportions of the salts employed, as well as the quantity of colouring ingiedients and the time of boiling, different shades may be produced. The fourth primitive colour is that denomi- nated by dyers the fawn or root colour. It is a kind of brown, and the process for dyeing it is widely different from those 'just described, the wool merely requiring a simple immersion in water as already directed for blue. The materials employed consist of the green shell of the walnut, the root of the ivalnut tree, the bark of alder, sanded or sanders wood, sumach, and soot. The green walnut shells are collected when the nuts are thoroughly ripe. They are put into tubs or casks, which are afterwards filled with water, and are thus preserved till the succeeding year. Sandal or sanders wood is much inferior to walnut shells, because if used in too large a quantity it stiffens, and consequently injures, the wool. It is in general mixed with galls, sumach, and alder bark, without which its colour could not be extracted; and though it yields very little with alum and tartar, it is never- theless used in large quantities on account of the solidity of its colour, which is naturally a yellow reddish brown. The best of the different ingredients em- ployed in dyeing fawn colours is the hark or rind of the walnut tree. Its shades are uncom- monly fine, its colours solid, and it renders the wool dyed in it flexible and soft. A cauldron half full of water is placed over the fire, and, as soon as it grows warm, bark is added in propor- tion to the quantity of stuffs intended to be dyed, and the lightness or depth of the shades required. It is then boiled for about a quarter of an hour, when the cloths, being previously moistened with warm water, are immersed, fre- quently turned, and well stirred till they have sufficiently imbibed the colour. They are aired,- dried, and dressed in the usual manner. Next to the rind or bark the root of the walnut tree is the best dye for a fawn colour. It also affords a variety of shades similar to those pro; duced by the bark, for which it is frequently sub- stituted. The root, however, requires a different process. A cauldron is filled about three parts full of river water, into which the root is im- mersed, after being tied up in a bag. When the liquor is very hot the wool or stuff is plunged into it, repeatedly turned, and occasionally aired. The lighter stuffs are next to be dipped till the colour is completely extracted. Durnig this operation proper care should be taken to pre- vent the liquor from boiling, as in such case the piece first immersed would imbibe the whole of the colour. The process of dyeing with the hark of alder is nearly the same as that pursued with walnut roots. The boiling of it is at first not very material, as this drug very freely com- municates its colour. It is chiefly used for worsteds, imparting shades darkened with cop- peras, and for wool that is not required to be very dark, as it equally withstands the effects of the sun and rain. Suniach possesses nearly the same properties as the bark or rind of the walnut tree. Its colour is not so deep, somewhat inclining to green, but is solid and permanent. Where dark colours are required sumach is frequently substituted for nut-galls, in which case a greater proportion becomes necessary. These different substances, however, are not unfrequently mingled together, and as they are of a similar nature, and differ only in degree, it is easy to obtain various shades. With respect to the method of compounding the different ingredients with pulverised san- ders wood, 4 lbs. of the latter are to be put into a copper, with i lb. of powdered nut-galls, 12 lbs of alder bark, and 10 lbs. of sumach, The whole is to be boiled, when a small portion of water should be added to check the boiling. After immersing the cloth, stirring and turning it repeatedly, it is aired, and washed in river vrateF. The quantities of these ingredients may