CAS CAS [ 247 ] and, Vigne believes, brackish. Old shawls that require cleaning, and sometimes also new ones, are washed by means of the freshly-gathered root of a parasitical plant called kritz. A pound of this is bruised and mixed with about three pints of water, to which is added a piece of pigeon's dung, equal in size to a turkey's egg, beaten up in about an equal quantity of water. The shawl is saturated with this liquor, stamped upon, washed with the hand, and then steeped in the canal. Vigne gives further particulars respecting the mode of producing a fine pale yellow colour by the fumes of sulphur, and various other matters relating to the manu- facture of and trade in Cashmere shawls, and an enumeration of the various kinds of fabric produced in the looms of Cashmere, and states that a cloth called silling is manufactured from the shawl wool in Yarkund and China which resembles a coarse English kerseymere in texture. Various attempts have been made to naturalise the Cashmere shawl goat in this and other European countries, but as the pe- culiarities of its wool appear to be dependent upon climate, the perfect success of any such attempt is problematical. The wool itself has also been imported as a raw material, and Dr. Ure, in the "Dictionary of Arts," article Cash- mere, gives an account of the various plans adopted in France for working both the imported wool and that produced in France from a breed of Thibet goats imported in 1819, into shawls in imitation of those of Cashmere, in which plans the Jacquard loom has been employed to great advantage.—(Supplement to Penny Cyclopadia.) CASSAVA. See Tapioca. CASSEROLE. Take H lb. of Carolina rice; wash it thoroughly in several waters (warm), and then put it into a saucepan at least four inches in diameter. Moisten it with stock in this pro- portion :—If the rice lies an inch thick let the stock come two inches above it, and 4 ladles- ful of fowl skimmings. Place the saucepan on a hot stove. When the rice boils set it on the side, and skim it; then put it on hot ashes ; cover, and let it boil slowly for fifteen or twenty minutes ; stir it. Let it boil as before. In twenty or twenty-five minutes stir it again. If by this time the rice is perfectly soft take it off, but if not add a little more liquid, and continue boiling until it is so. Place the saucepan aslant on the side of the stove, that the fat may drain away, and be taken off easily. As soon as the rice is lukewarm work it into a firm, smooth paste with a spatula. It can hardly be worked up too much, as every grain of rice ought to pass under pressure. If necessary add more stock, a veiy little at a time. When the paste is thus thoroughly worked up form your casse- role of it, first laying it in a heap four or five inches high and seven inches in diameter. Do it with the hand as you would a raised crust. Make the ornaments of the outer surface with the point of a knife, or by carrots cut up for the purpose, taking care that the decorations be de- tached from the mass of rice at least an inch. Attention to this particular will not only add to the beauty of the form, but to the colour also, as the I'aised parts will be lightly coloured, while the ground will be quite white. When properly formed mask the whole surface with clarified butter, and place it in a hot oven for an hour and a half, by which time it will be of a fine clear yellow. Take off the top of your casserole, clear away all the rice inside that does not adhere to tlae crust, which ought to be very thin, and mix it with bechamel, Espa- gnole, or whatever other sauce may be proper. Put it in again, and then fill your casserole with such ragouts as your fancy may dictate. Glaze the surface of the outer ornaments, and serve it. CASSIA, CANDIED. Pound a little musk and ambergris with as much of the powder of cassia as will lie on two shillings. Having pounded them well together, take ^ lb. of fine sugar and as much water as will wet it, and boil it to a candy height; then put in your powder, and mix well together Butter some pewter saucers, and when it is cold turn it out. CASSIA, RATAFIA OF. Take lib. of cassia, ^ lb. of bitter cherries, J lb. of cassia leaves, and -J- drachm of cinnamon. Bruise the first two, cut up the leaves, and pound the cin- namon ; infuse these ingredients in 3 quarts of brandy for three weeks. Dissolve 2 lbs. of sugar in 1 quart of water and mix with the liquor, and let it stand some time longer; then strain and bottle it. Cork it up close. CASSIMERE is said to be a corruption of the word Cashmere; but kerseymere is derived from the mere, or small lake, of the village of Kersey, in Suffolk, where the cloth so called was first manufactured. See Cloth. CASTILE, or Spanish Soap, is made chiefly in Spain, because the inferior olive oil of which it is made can be obtained there at a low price. This soap is formed of that oil and soda. It ought to be quite hard, brittle, and white. The mottling is caused by impurities. In large doses it is purgative, in smaller ones it is decomposed in the sto.mach, and its alkali is carried to the kidneys. In this way it may act beneficially in some calculous diseases, or it may produce its effects by correcting any acidity which may prevail, for the weakest acid is capable of decomposing soap, and of uniting with its al- kaline base. A solution of soap in lime-water was long regarded as one of the strongest sol- vents of urinary calculi that could be adminis- tered with safety, but the result of such a mix-