GLA t 56a ] GLO to double the weight of that which is in a crystalline form. It is rendered more active by being combined with other purgative salts, espe- cially with Epsqm salt (sulphate of magnesia), and the compound is more soluble and less nauseous. A portion of triple salt, a magnesio- sulphate of soda, probably results from the com- bination—a salt which may be frequently detected in parcels of sulphate of magnesia, and may be known by its crystals, which are regular rhom- boids. It is also contained, according to Dr. Murray, in the brine or mother liquor of sea water, and it constitutes the whole of that salt which was formerly sold under the name of Lymington Glauber's salts. See Cheltenham Salts. GLAZE (1). Take the remains of any liquor in which meat has been cooked, and strain it through a silk sieve until quite clear ; then put it into a saucepan, and reduce it over a brisk fire. As soon as it is sufficiently done—that is, when it sticks to the spoon—put it into a smaller saucepan, and set it in the bain-marie. When wanted add a small piece of fresh butter to it to correct its saltness. GLAZE (2). Make a consomme with what- ever remnants of fowls or meat may be in the house ; strain it, and then put it on the fire with two or three whites of eggs beaten to a snow; stir till it boils, then set it on the side of the stove, and place fire on the saucepan lid. As soon as the eggs have set pass the glaze through a wet cloth, reduce this over a large fire, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon to prevent its sticking, and then pour it into a pot for use. GLAZE OF EOOTS. Fill a saucepan three parts full of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions (have the largest quantity of the two latter); four or five cloves may also be added, and veal if you think proper. Moisten the whole with stock and water, boil your vegetables over a slow fire, and proceed in the usual manner. When wanted put a small quantity of it into a saucepan, make it hot over a slow fire, and in this state lay it gently over such articles as may require glazing. GLOVES. Although the most fashionable gloves, and those very generally worn, consist of leather, yet they are by no means the most healthy. Indeed, it is equally improper and unwholesome to cover the hands and arms with any other than woollen texture, which ought to be preferred by all females who are anxious to improve the complexion of those extremities. No cosmetics are so efi&cacious and safe as simple animal wool. Kid gloves are the most beautiful, from their softness, thinness, and elasticity, fitting the hand almost like a second skin. They are white, and dyed of all colours, but white kid is always worn in full dress. Those of French manufacture are certainly superior to ours in the neatness of the workmanship, and for elas- ticity they are highly prized. This superiority has occasioned many imitations in this country, and it is said that most of what are sold here for French are, in fact, home made from French or Italian sldns. We have few goats in England, therefore our kid leather is chiefly imported from Switzerland and Tuscany, whence it comes by way of Leghorn. Most of the lower- priced gloves sold for kid are made of lamb- skin, which is thicker. A vast, many are made in Worcestershire. It used formerly to be the custom in the south- west of Ireland to slaughter many cows while in calf. The skins of these xmborn calves were of extraordinary fineness and delicacy, and from such was prepared the leather of which the celebrated Limerick gloves were made. This practice, however, is now almost discontinued; and whatever merit the Limerick gloves may still possess is owing to the skill of the manu- facturer, and not to the superiority of his raw material, which is generally kid leather. Beaver gloves are among the most common of the cheap leather gloves, manufactured chiefly at Hereford. They are dyed of many colours, but they do not wash. Woodstock gloves are a superior kind of soft leather, made of lamb-skins, wbich have the advantage of bearing washing. They are manu- factured chiefly at Woodstock, in Oxfordshire, which has been celebrated for them ever since the time of Queen Elizabeth. Buckskin makes the strongest kind of leather gloves, and washes well. It may be had white and of various colours. Doe-skin is a thick, strong, and soft leather. Bears washing. Tan leather is the name of a very serviceable, strong, and cheap glove for riding, driving, or gardening. Its colour is that of bai'k or tan, and it is either common or York tan. Sheep-skin is not much used except in the army. It is generally white. Leather gloves are likewise sometimes lined with fleecy hosiery or fur for winter, and are sometimes cuff'ed. Machines have been lately invented for sew- ing leather gloves, by which the process is per- formed more accurately, and which reduces the price. The principal leather glove manufactories in England are at Worcester, Woodstock, Yeovil, Leominster, Ludlow, and London. Thread gloves are either of linen or cotton thread; but it is the former only that are properly known in the shops by the name of thread gloves, though it is now a common prac-