[ 32 1 APP APP remove liair, lint, dust, &c. The brush improves after a little use, when the sharp edges of the bristles are worn off; and the brush usually called a blacking brush is one of the best for the purpose. After dusting a coat, spread it out on a table (free from grease) with the collar towards your left hand ; commence brushing the inside of the collar ; then the back and sleeves. The nap of the cloth is towards the skirts, so let the strokes of the brush be in that direction; next brush the two lapels ; lastly, the outside of the collar, and then fold it over and brush the inside in like manner. Wipe the dust off the table before you turn the garment, and if the coat is in- tended to be packed in a trunk, you must fold according to the following directions ; but if for immediate wear, or to be laid along in a ward- robe or drawer, no further folding is necessary. When the sleeves of the coat are brushed, turn them back, so that the crease comes just below the elbow; then turn the lapel over the folded sleeve, and finally turn the skirt up over the lapel, so that the end will come under tho collar when folded down ; then double it. Waist- coats should be folded as little as possible, merely doubling them inside out. Trousers should be brushed from the band downwards, the fore part then brought out so as to permit the legs to fold flat on each other; and they must be folded from the bottom, not the band. The wardrobe should be covered with a linen cloth (brown holland is in general use), and frequent opportunities taken to air, as clothes are apt to acquire an unpleasant smell when kept close for any length of time, and moreover subject to the moth; the best airing is to wear every garment occasionally. There are various nostrums for the preven- tion of moths, such as camphor, bitter apples, lavender, rue, pepper, laurel leaves, &c., folded in the clothes; nevertheless, to be secure from these destructive insects, which are not easily extirpated when they effect a lodgment, frequent airing is indispensable. Be particular to keep your clothes brushes clean, washing them occasionally in cold water with soap, or rubbing on paper placed over the edge of aboard, which not only removes the dirt, but rounds the edges of the bristles. Unless your clothes are clean-brushed you can never keep your gloves unsoiled. It sometimes happens that grease or paint spots appear. These are easily removed by oil of turpentine, or a hot iron pressed on the place over coarse brown paper, after scraping all that can be got off with a blunt knife. Stains may be removed from light-coloured clothes, such as drabs, buffs, or whites, with fullers' earth; but this is apt to take the colour out of dark cloths. It should be dissolved in a little boiling water, put on the spot when hot, held to the fire to dry, and then brushed out. Pitch is removed, first by rubbing the place over with grease or oil, and then taking out the oil by the application of spirits of tui'pentiue. Scouring balls may be prepared as follows. 6 parts fuller's earth to 1 part of pearl-ash, kneaded to a paste with lemon-juice. Moisten the stain with water, rub on the paste, and when dry wash it off again with soft water. Scouring drops: 1 tea-spoonful of essential oil of lemon, cloves, peppermint or cinnamon, to 1 wine-glassful of rectified spirit of tui-pen- tine. Rub a little on stains of silk, linen, or woollen stuff, with a bit of soft cloth or silk velvet. It will remove the stains of paint, pitch, oil, or fruit, without taking out the colours. This will be found equal to the scouring drops sold by chemists, and cost about one-tenth the price. Hats should be brushed with a soft brush kept for that purpose. When wetted by rain, they must be wiped quite smooth with a clean silk handkerchief. When dry, the brush then raises the nap evenly. For cleaning boots and shoes, use a wooden knife to remove the rough dirt, and brush off the remainder quite clean with a hard brush. When dry, apply the blacking, and polish immediately. Boot-trees are very useful, but they must be kept clean, or they will soil the inside of the boots, and consequently the stock- ings ; this precaution applies also to the hand. Never put boots or shoes too near the fire to dry. APPETITE, in the present instance, we shall consider means the craving for food. In this respect the appetite of man may be divided into three different species, though that evinced by inferior animals is naturally simple, because it is not impaired by art. Thus, if cliildren were never enticed by weak parents and ignorant nurses to eat more than their own inclination directs them, or to partake of highly-flavoured, artificial dishes which stimulate the palate, and preternaturally distend the stomach, there is every reason to believe that the following classi- fication would be unnecessary:— 1. The natural appetite, which is contented, as well with the most simple as the most com- pound and delicious dishes: such as that of country people employed in hard manual labour ; of children who have not been mismanaged in the imrsery; and of every rational person who is convinced of the advantages resulting to both mind and body from a simple frugal diet. 2. The artificial appetite of the epicure, the hypochondriac, and the tippler, all may be ranked under the same claSs. It would be needless to