[ 503 ] GLO GLU tice to pass off cotton thread for linen thread. They are a remarkably cool wear in summer, and bear washing perfectly. They are sometimes of unbleached yam. Cotton gloves are the cheapest of all, and are dyed of various colours: being warm, they are much in use for common wear. Many are im- ported from Germany of very low price. Berlin gloves are strong, and of white cotton. They wei'e originally imported from the continent, but are now made in great numbers in Not- tingham and Leicester. These and the other cotton gloves have almost driven away the common beaver. Jean, satteen, and cambric gloves are cut out of the cotton cloth of these names, and sewed to- gether : their use is confined to women. The first are strong, but the cambric gloves are bought merely for their cheapness, having nothing else to recommend them. Mittens are gloves made of various materials, of which the tips of the fingers are wanting, and are used in work that requires the points of the fingers to be uncovered. Silk gloves. These are of various qualities, determined by their weight and the neatness of workmanship. The French ivliite are the best. They are also black and coloured. A figured silk net glove has lately come much into use among ladies. It is extremely elegant and cool in summer. Gloves are now also made remarkably cheap of spun silk. Worsted gloves are of many kinds. Lambs' wool and Shetland are extremely soft and warm. Dutch knit, plain and lined, are strong and warm. German icorstcd are the cheapest. Worsted gloves, though not so elegant as others, have a great advantage in their real warmth in cold weather. The above gloves of silk, cotton, worsted, and thread are now generally woven in the loom, knit gloves, formerly so common, being seldom met with. Several other names of gloves may be found in shop lists, and every winter produces something new. Gloves of various kinds of cloth sewed are now introduced. They are warm, and fit well. Elastic wristbands to gloves are a late improvement.—[Encyclopiedia of Domestic Economy.) GLOVES, MANAGEMENT OF. Never pull them on forcibly by the wristband, but rub them on by pressing between and against the sides of the fingers. To prevent kid gloves becoming yellow wrap them in blue paper. To clean a kid glove put it on the hand, and apply over it, by means of a shaving brush, a strong lather made of brown soap ; wipe off the lather quickly with a clean towel, take off the glove, expand it by blowing, and hang it up to dry. To clean buckskin gloves. First wash them in warm water and soap until the dirt is removed ; then pull them out into their proper shape, or stretch them on wooden hands. Do not wring them, but place one on the other, and press the water out. Mix a little pipe- clay, or pipe-clay and yellow ochre, according to the colour required, with vinegar or beer. Rub this over the outside of the gloves, and let them dry gradually in the shade ; or, if in the house, not too near the fire. When about half dry rub them well, and stretch them on the hand or wooden mould; after they are rubbed and dried brush them with a soft brush to get out the dust. Finally, iron the gloves with a smoothing-iron moderately heated, taking the precaution to place a cloth or piece of paper over them, and they will look like new. Tanned gloves, commonly called Limerick, are economical in spring and autumn, as they do not soil so soon as white. The tan colour is made by infusing saffron in boiling water for about twelve hours, and rubbing the stuff over the leather with a brush. The water should be soft, and never applied to leather in any case at more than blood heat. Thread gloves, after washing, should be dried on a wooden hand. GLUE is made from waste pieces of skins, hides, tendons, &c. It is, in fact, concentrated animal jelly, or gelatine. There are various kinds of glue, cake or string glue, used by car- penters ; Flemish, used by cabinet-makers; French, used by the same for finer work; hat- makers', which becomes moist in damp weather, but is not brittle even when driest; Jish glue, made from the fins, &c., of the cuttle and other fish. It is a very pale-coloured glue, as is that made from parchment shavings, and called parchment glue. GLUE, LIQUID. Dissolve IJ oz. of shellac in I oz., by measure, of naphtha; put the shel- lac, broken finely, into a wide-mouthed bottle; stir it with a wire until dissolved, and keep it corked. If thicker than cream add more naphtha. This glue you will find always ready for use. It is perfectly waterproof, and ap- plicable to the purposes of the carpenter, joiner, and turner. It is used like common glue, the only difference being that the surfaces to bo joined together must be quite dry. GLUE, PORTABLE. Best glue, I lb. ; water sufficient. Boil it in a double gluo pot, and strain ; add fine brown sugar | lb., and boil it till pretty thick ; then pour it into moulds; when cold cut into small pieces and dry them. This glue is very useful to draughtsmen, architects, &c., as it immediately dilutes in warm water, fastens the paper without the process of damping, and may be softcued for many pur- poses with the tongue.