COM CON [ 345 ] j)art of our toilet furniture that the most durable combs for parting the hair, the least liable to injury, and the readiest to clean are made of a white metallic compound resembling silver, and that the next to be preferred are combs made of gutta percha. COMPOTE is a method of preparing fruits, which will be treated of under the name of CONDUCTORS OF LIGHTNING. The best are made of copper wire twisted into a rope. One half an inch in diameter is quite large enough, and we recommend one at each end of a house. CONGER EEL (Boiled). The boiled con- ger taken from the soup may be eaten with plain melted butter and fish sauce, or with oil and vinegar, or with parsley and butter, or it may be sent to table covered with white sauce. It is also very nice fried in a light batter. In a word, this fish will be found very useful and economical in large families, being nutritive, palatable, and e.xtremely wholesome. CONGER EEL (Broiled). The conger eel cut into streaks and broiled is a dish of no ordinai-y attractions. It may be served with the common sauce piquante, or with tomato sauce. CONGER EEL SOUP. Put 5 lbs. of con- ger eel into a pipkin (which must be used for no other purpose), together with a slice of lean ham, an anchovy, J lb. of bullock's liver, and a sheep's melt; add water as you would for making beef soup. When the pot has been well skimmed put in 1 turnip, 2 carrots, half a parsnip, an onion with 3 cloves stuck in it, 1 clove of garlic, and a good bunch of leeks ; season with salt and some whole pepper. Let the soup simmer during six hours. It may be sent to table either with bread, or with small round Italian paste, or with semolina. This soup is excellent for consumptive persons. CONSERVES, FRIED. For all sorts of conserves the sugar should be prepared to the ninth degree, according to the quantity wanted. They are all made much after the same manner, the only diffei'ence being in the quantity of fruits proposed. Conserves are made with all sorts of sweetmeat marmalade sifted in a sieve, and soaked pretty dry over a slow fire. Use about ^ lb. of the sugar thus prepared to ^ lb. of sweetmeat marmalade ; take the sugar off the fire to work them well together; warm the whole for a mo- ment, and pour it into paper cases made for the purpose. When it is cool it may be cut into cakes of what size you please. CONSERVE OF FOUR FRUITS. Take strawberries, currants, cherries, and raspberries, of each ^ lb., and 3 lbs. of sugar. Bruise your fruit, and, having strained off the juice, put it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring it till re- duced to half. Dissolve the sugar, skim, and boil it to casse; take it from the fire while you put in the juice, then put it on again, and give it one boil; take it off, and keep stirring till the sugar bubbles, when the conserve may be put into moulds. CONSOMMEE. This is broth, jelly, or jelly stock. CONSOMMFE : To Make. TakeSorlOlbs. of beef steaks, 8 old hens, 2 young ones, and 4 knuckles of veal. Put these into a large pot, and fill it with strong broth. Skim it well, cool- ing it three or four times to make the scum rise, after which let it boil gently. Put into the pot carrots, turnips, onions, and 3 cloves. When your meat is sufficiently done pass the liquor through a fine napkin or silk sieve, that it may be very clear. No salt need be put in if strong broth is used. CONSOMMEE of game is made in the same manner as with poultry, substituting the backs, &c., of partridges or other game for the trimmings of fowls. CONSOMMFE of poultry. Lay a few slices of ham and veal at the bottom of a stewpan, and on them the trimmings of poultry; cover them with consommee, and let the stewpan stand over a slow fire till the meat is quite warmed through ; then add more consommee, mushrooms, parsley, and scallions, and let the whole continue to boil till done. Strain it through a silk sieve, and set it by for use. constipation. See Costiveness. constitution. Few persons, we believe, notwithstanding the assertion " that every man past forty is either a fool or a physician," know their constitution, and what it will bear either in the way of excess or abstinence. Now, though this seems to be a sweeping assertion, it is certainly too true ; and the lamentable situation to which many reduce themselves by their in- dulgence in every kind of excess is but too powerful an illustration of our position. How very few, for instance, though complaining violently of their bad and slow digestion, will debar tiicni- selves the gratification of partaking of a disli that pleases their palate, or refrain from a wine of the peculiar flavour of which they are fond. Exercise, too, that great promoter of health, even in the hands of the physician, without whose aid his prescriptions might frequently be throw-n behind the fire, is neglected by the sedentary, and those whose avocations lead them to adopt a sitting pos ture, and confine themselves to close rooms. The pure air, instead of being sought by them as the phj'sic best suited to their complaints, is sliuirned or totally neglected, and for no other reason than, that it occasions the waste, as they term it of time ; when, if the hours that are idly sponi by