BUG BEU [ 173 ] slow fire till the apples are tender. When cold put them into a very light paste, and pour round them some good custard. BRUNSWICK TART (2). Make a crust as for a VoLAN Vbnt ; pare and core with a scoop 8 or 10 golden pippins; put them into a stew- pan, with 1 gill of sweet wine and 4 ozs. of sifted loaf sugar, a bit of lemon-peel, a small stick of cinnamon, and a blade of mace. Stew them over a slow fire till the apples are tender; set them by. When cold place them in the paste, and pour round them some good custard. BRUISES, or Contusions. If violent on the head, knee, or hip, a surgeon had better be consulted, but if slight the only application needed is a rag kept moistened with a warm mixture of 2 parts of water to 1 part of vinegar. BRUSHES required for household purposes are of various kinds, viz., clothes, shoe, nail, tooth, crumb, bottle, scrubbing, loaded rubbing for floors, black-lead, furniture, dusting, filter- ing-stone, and water-closet brushes. The wooden part of brushes is generally of oak or elm, which is cut to the proper size by a large knife, fastened down to a block, with a staple at one end, in such a manner that it is moveable up and down ; at the other end is a handle. The wood to be cut is held in the left hand, while the knife is worked with the right. The knife is always kept very sharp, and by its make and mode of using the hardest wood is readily reduced to any shape and size. This wood, when formed, is drilled with as many holes as necessary, and into these holes the hair is put. The hair made use of by brush-makers is hogs' bristles, vast quantities of which are yearly imported from Russia and Ger- many ; but whalebone, split very fine so as to resemble bristles, is very generally substituted, particularly in the black-coloured br jshes, where it is often mixed with the black hair. Some brushes are made of whalebone entirely; these are cheaper, but not so durable. In choosing brushes observe that the hair is fast bound, and that it lies close together. If it is not close bound and the hair ajtpears to fly out it will never work well; and, besides, it will come out and disfigure the work, as may sometimes be seen on paint. Brushes in which the hair is fastened with silver wire are superior to those fastened with copper or iron wire, especially when they are to be used in water. Brushes for the hat-maker, as well as some other trades, are fastened with cord and wooden pegs in- stead of wire and the usual cements, as they require to be frequently dipped in a boiling, though weak solution of sulphuric acid, mixed with water. There are brushes of various sorts, sizes, and shapes, but the structure of them all is the same or nearly so. When the bristles are sorted, combed, and picked, a certain portion is taken and tied in the middle with string, fine copper or iron wire, and then doubled. In this double state they are fastened into the wooden stock, with hot cement made of melted glue, pitch, or rosin. The ends of the hair are next cut off", and the surface made smooth and uni- form. Common hearth brushes and hair brooms are made in a slighter way. As soon as the stock is brought to the proper shape it is drilled, and the bristles inserted in the manner above described. In some brushes the wires are visi- ble on the back ; in others the backs are smooth, there being thin slices of wood glued over the w.'res. The scrubbing-brush used to dry-rub oaken floors is generally loaded with lead at the back. BRUSHING. Seo Apparel. BUBBLE-AND-SQUEAK. Sprinkle some slices of cold, boiled, salted beef with pepper; fry them with a bit of butter to a light brown colour. Boil a cabbage, squeeze it quite dry, and chop it snmll; take the beef out of the frying- pan, and lay the cabbage in it; sprinkle a little pepper anc^ «alt over; keep the pan moving over the fire for t few minutes. Lay the cabbage in the middle o the dish, and the beef round it. BUCKBE.vN, or Marsh Trefoil (Me»y- nnthes trifoliata). This is common in marshy soils, by the sides of rivers, and similar wet situations. The leaves are vei'y bitter and are said to be used by fraudulent brewei's, 1 oz. giving out as much bitterness to the wort as ^ lb. of hops. It is said to be effectual in curing sheep of the rot if they be compelled to eat it. A strong infusion of the leaves pro- motes perspiration violently, and has been given with benefit to the extent of a pint a day in cases of rheumatism and dropsy. It is also said to be very beneficial in scorbutic com- plaints, and removing inveterate eruptions. A drachm of the leaves dried and powdered causes vomiting and purging. BUCKTHORN [Rhamnus catharticvs). This tree or bush is common in hedges ; it flowers in May and June, and ripens its fruit in September or the beginning of October. The berries when recent are about the size of a pea, green before they are ripe and black when ripe, nearly round, a little flattened on the summit, smooth, shining; parenchyme juicy, green, becoming of a deep violet red, and surrounding four seeds, oval, obtuse, trigonal, brown, smooth, and curvated. Their smell is unpleasant and their taste nau- seous and bitterish. In the market the fruit of some other trees, as the blackberry-bearing alder {Eliamnus fravgula) and the dogberrj' tree, have been frequently mixed with or substituted for those of buckthorn. This abuse may be dis- covered by opening the berries; those of buck- thorn have almost always four seeds, of the alder