CAR CAR C 236 ] if that card is black edged. Fashion varies as to wedding cards, but plain, unostentatious ones are never out of fashion. No one to whom, wedding cards have not been sent ought to call upon a newly-married couple. CARD WORK: To Varnish. Dissolve a little isinglass in hot water, and strain it through fine muslin. Brush over the cardwork with this liquid size. When quite dry brush over it a second and a third time even, if necessary. A small brush, called a size brush, is the best for applying it, and a similar brush for the varnish. A very delicate touch is required in applying the first coat of size to avoid making the colours of the paintings on the cardwork run. The varnish may be that mentioned under Canada Balsam, Copal, and Varnish. CARMINATIVE, DALBY'S, is formed of the following ingredients :—Mix together car- bonate of magnesia, 2 scruples; oil of pepper- mint, 1 drop; oil of nutmeg, 3 drops ; oil of aniseed, 3 drops ; tincture of castor, 30 drops; tincture of asafcetida, 15 drops; tincture of opium, 5 drops ; spirit of pennyroyal, 15 drops. Add of peppermint water 2 ozs. fluid. Shake before using the bottle in which the mixture is kept. A small tea-spoonful is a dose. CARMINATIVES are medicines employed to remove flatulency and its attendant pains. Such are ginger, cardamom, peppermint, and other aromatics. If they do not give relief they should not be repeated without medical advice, for they may tend to bring on inflammation. Even dill or anise under such circumstances may be injurious to infants, for dill seed kills the bullfinch, anise kills the canary, and parsley seed the parrot. See Aromatics and Anti- spasmodics. CARMINE is one of the most beautiful reds used by the artist. It is prepared from cochi- neal, and employed in water-colour drawings, in tinting artilicial flowers, and for rouge. Liquid carmine is carmine dissolved in spirits of harts- horn. CARP. Though this fresh-water fish is very tenacious of life, and will exist a very long time out of watej:, yet as it must unavoidably waste in a foreign state of nature, it is best when killed as soon as caught. The freshness of a carp may be known by the colour of its gills, and the diSiculty of opening them. CARP (German way of Cooking). The Germans take a liv6 carp of about 3 lbs., and bleed it into a stewpan, then scale and take out the entrails, which, with the exception of the gall, they convert to food. Having opened the maw and washed it, they cut the roe in pieces, of which, with the rest of the internal parts, they make a soup, either rich or maigre, according to circumstances. In the former case thev use gravy or strong beef broth, with herbs, spicery, and flour for thickening. When the dish is for maigre days, as Lent, they take the broth made of some other fish, and pass it through a sieve, adding thereto a bundle of sweet herbs, and a due seasoning of spices. This is the first dish, and for the second, or stew, they slit the carp quite through the head to the tail along the backbone. When the head is cut off", with a good shoulder, the largest part of the body con- taining the bone is divided into three pieces, which, with the half of the head, are put into the blood in the pan, and dressed as before directed, either with a glass or two of Rhenish wine, or double the quantity of ale, a Uttle grated gingerbread, and sometimes only a small portion of vinegar, adding sweet herbs and spicery according to taste. This dish is usually sei-ved with lemon-juice. The third dish con- sists of the remaining half of the head and body, divided in the same manner as for the stew, and dredged with flour, then dried brown and crisp in oil or clarified butter. CARP : To Bake. Clean a brace of carp, and lay them in a buttered pan; season with doves, nutmeg, mace, black and white pepper, sweet herbs, an onion, and an anchovy; then pour ^ in a bottle of white wine, and send them to the oven. Let them bake an hour, and when done lay them in a dish, which must be set over some boiling water, and kept covered. Pour the liquor in which the fish were baked into a saucepan, boil it a few minutes, strain it ofi", and add thereto i lb. of butter rolled in flour. Let it boil, and keep it stirring. Squeeze in half a lemon, and put in some salt; pour the sauce over the carp, lay the roes round the dish, and garnish with .slices of lemon. CARP : To Boil. In killing the fish save the blood, and have ready some good beef gravy seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and onions. Having boiled the carp and strained the gravy, put the fish into it; then set it on a slow fire for fifteen minutes, and thicken with a large bit of butter rolled in flour. Or, make your sauce thus:—Take the liver with 3 anchovies, a little parsley, thyme, and an onion; chop them all together; then take i pint of white wine, 4 spoonsful of vinegar; add thereto the blood. Stew the whole gently, and put it to the fish, which has been boiled in water, salt, and 1 pint more of wine. Care must be taken that it is not done too much after the addition of the sauce. CARP, BOILED (in Wine). Take the liver of the carp clean from the guts, 3 ancho- vies, a little parsley, thyme, and onion. Chop these together, and take ^ pint of Rhenish wine, 4 spoonsful of vinegar, and the blood of the carp. Stew them gently together, put it to the carp, which must first be boiled in water with ^