EPI EPI L ^72 ] whole body. During the fit the countenance is variously distorted. After the convulsions have continued for a longer time they subside alto- gether, leaving the patient motionless, though still in a state of insensibility, and under the appearance of profound sleep, the patient on recovery having no recollection of what has passed. The epileptic fit is often preceded by pain in the head, lassitude, some disturbance of the senses, unquiet sleep, unusual dread, noise in the ears, palpitation of the heart, coldness of the joints, sensation of a cold air, the aura epi- leptica, arising in some part of the extremities, and gradually creeping upwards until it reaches the head, when the patient is instantly deprived of his senses, and falls to the ground with a violent scream. The returns of epilepsy are periodical, and the paroxysms take place more frequently duiing the night than in the day- time, being somewhat connected with sleep. It is one of those diseases which are sometimes counterfeited for the purpose of extorting charity or exciting commiseration. Epilepsy may arise from a variety of causes, such as mechanical, chemical, and mental stimuli, especially the effects of fear, joy, anger, &c.; sudden fright; fulness of the vessels of the head; worms ; teething; acute pain; excessive evacuations ; suppression of accustomed dis- charges ; tumours compressing the brain, or any part of the nervous system. It may also arise from an hereditary disposition. The cure of epilepsy must vary according as may proceed from any of the above causes; that is, where it is sympathetic, and arising from worms in the intestines, the medicines proper for dislodging these vermin must be employed. In epilepsy arising from this cause the oil of turpentine, as an anthelmintic, is recommended in doses from \ oz. to 1 oz., taken in pepper- mint water or any other suitable vehicle. When the fits proceed from teething the inflamed- part of the gum over the protruding tooth should be deeply scarified, the body kept open with laxative medicines, and the feet bathed in warm water. If it proceed from any suppressed discharge, particularly the bleeding piles, leeches should be applied, fomentations used to pro- mote the bleeding, and purges of aloes should be given, &c. If from a plethoric state of the system, general bleeding, with the use of pur- gatives and abstemious diet, proper exercise, &c., the disease may be obviated here, as in every other circumstance, by avoiding the ex- citing causes. In some cases epilepsy has been known to continue, from custom alone, after the original cause has long subsided. In these cases the object should be to induce nature to discontinue the custom. When, there- fore, an attack under such circumstances can be foreseen, an emetic given about an hour before its approach may probably prevent it. When the predisposition to epileptic fits proceeds from weakness, which is, sometimes the case, the patient should breathe a cool air, take nutritious food, daily exercise adapted to his strength, particularly on horseback, and go fre- quently into a cold bath, entering at the same time on a course of antispasmodic, astringent, and tonic medicines. The antispasmodics most generally used are valerian, musk, ether, castor, oil of amber, oil of cajeput, opium, &c. See Hysterics. The mistletoe, as an astringent, was formerly the most celebrated in the cure of epilepsy. It was given in powder from h drachm to 1 drachm, or about 1 oz. of the infusion twice a day. Dr. Henry Frazer, in his treatise on epilepsy, still assigns wonderful powers to it, and gives several cases that were radically cured by it. As an antispasmodic bolus previously to an approach of the fit the following may be given every six hours: — Take castor and musk, of each 10 grains; opium, ^ grain; confection of roses. Make a bolus. In plethoric constitutions opium would be improper; but wheie there is no fulness, and the disease seems to depend upon irritation or increased excitement, its use will prove a safe and powerful remedy, and when given in the dose of 2 grains in substance, or 60 or 70 drops of the tincture on the accession, the fit has been pi'evented, or, where this has failed, it has mainly contributed in moderating its violence. Take infusion of cascarilla, 6 ozs.; ammoniated tincture of valerian, 2 drachms; tincture of calumba, 1 oz.; tincture of henbane, l-^- drachm. Make a mixture, and take two table-spoonsful every six hours. The Peruvian bark as a tonic has been much used in the cure of epilepsy ; but it appears to be best calculated for that form of the disease which recurs at stated periods when taken con- stantly. As tonics the metallic preparations have been found more powerful than the vegetable ones, and those now most in use of the former are the sulphate and carbonate of iron, and the ammoniated iron, e.g.:—Take ammoniated iron, 1 drachm ; extract of gentian root, 2 scruples ; syrup a sufficient quantity. Make four boluses, and take one three times a day. Or, take tincture of ammoniated iron, 22 drops, twice or thrice a day in a glassful of water. Or, take sulphate of copper, 12 grains; extract of bark, 2^ scruples; opium, 8 grains; s^vrup enough to make the mass into twenty-four pills, one of which may be taken three or four times a day. Or, take oxide of zinc, 2^ scruples; extract of