BOO BOR fore you use it. Put it on the brush with a piece of sponge tied to the end of a small cane, and keep it corked when you have done with it, or the air will spoil it. If your hoots and shoes do not look bright after once blacking and rubbing, do them again until you are satisfied with them. When finished always put them away in the places proper for them, that they may be kept clean and in readiness. It is always best to scrape off the dirt when wet from boots or shoes, but never place them too near the fire to dry, as that cracks the leather : it ought to be done very gradually. If boots or shoes become mildewed put them into a ve7-y cool oven ; they will soon be tho- roughly dried, and the mildew easily brushes off. The creaking of boots and shoes is usually removed by soaking their soles in water, and letting them dry very gradually; but it is always cured by having the soles so soaked and then hammered upon the last before they be- come dry. BOOT-TOPS. In cleaning top-boots the blacking part should be done first, meanwhile covering the tops with paper or parchment, and this is shifted to the leg when the top is being cleaned. The top should be washed clean with soap and water, and if very dirty, rubbed with stone or brickdust. The following application may then be used, if it is wished to render the top white:—Oxalic acid, 1 oz., dissolved in 1 pint of soft water; apply with a sponge, and then wash over with clean water. Polish, if desired, with fine flannel. For brown tops, mix, with 1 pint of skimmed milk, 1 oz. of miiriatic acid, 1 oz. of gum arable, i oz. of spirits of lavender, and the juice of 2 lemons. Rub this mixture on the tops, and when dry polish with a flannel or soft brush. Keep both these pre- parations in bottles closely stopped and in a safe place, for they are poisonous. BORAGE {Borago officinalis). This plant, although commonly found growing about rub- bish and in waste grounds, is, however, not originally a native of this island, but has now been long enough naturalised here to be con- sidered as a British plant. Its flowers, which appear from June till September, are of a beau- tiful blue colour. Hence this plant, in many gardens, is cultivated for ornament, as well as for its popular use as an ingredient in that grateful summer beverage known by the name of cool tankard, its leaves tasting like cucumber and burnet. This plant apjjears to be the bu- glossum of the ancients ; and its reputed me- dicinal character seems also to correspond most exactly with that of our common bugloss. The flowers of both have been termed cordial, and hence, formerly, much recommeuded in melan- cholia and other affections of the nervous system; and as these flowers were found to possess neither warmth, pungency, nor fragrance, their cordial efficacy has been ascribed to a saline quality, which, by abating inordinate heat, was said to be peculiarly grateful and refreshing. But though the herbaceous substance of borage has bfcen discovered to contain a saline matter, there is no evidence of its existence in the flowers; so that the advantages supposed to be derived by a vinous infusion of these, like those of bugloss, can only be imputed to the menstruum. The leaves of borage manifest nothing remark- able either to the smell or to the taste; but they abound with a juice which, in its expressed state, is said to be saltish, and which, on being boiled a sufficient time, forms crystals of nitre. Similar crystals have also been obtained from a decoction of the leaves; and hence it may be inferred that this plant has a peculiar claim to the possession of refrigerating and aperient vir- tues. Dr. Withering observes that the young and tender leaves are good in salads, or as a pot-herb. The old herbalists considered this one of " the four cardinal flowers "—the others being the alkanet, rose, and violet. BORAX is a salt composed of boracic acid, 37'; soda, 14-5; water, 48'5. In the language of chemistry it is a bi-borate of soda. Boi'ax is found native in the East Indies anJ is imported under the name of tinkal. It prjmotes the melting of metals, and, consequently, is much used in soldering. In medicine it is used to cure the thrush and other ulcerations of the tongue and mouth. It may be applied dissolved in water, or in the form of powder by itself, for it is cool and sweetish ; but the usual mode of administering it is mixed with honey. It is then called honey of borax, and is made by mixing a drachm of finely-powdered borax, with the snme quantity of honey. The ulcerated part should be touched frequently with this mixture. The above quantity of honey of borax, dissolved in a pint of hot water and allowed to cool, forms an excellent gargle for an ulcerated sore throat. Borax also forms an efficient lotion. A drachm should be dissolved in a pint of rose water and kept constantly applied, by means of a thin linen rag, over the redness which often affects the nose and blotches the face of delicate per- sons. It is also a soothing application to in- flamed piles and chilblains. BORDEAUX, or Claret Wines. Claret wir.es are produced principally in a district of France called the Bordelais, and in the fertile country on the banks of the Gironde. The most esteemed are tlie Lafitte, Latour, Chateau- Margaux, and Haut-Brion wines, these always fetching from 20 per cent, to 30 per cent, higher prices than any other sorts of the dis-