CUP CUL [ 884 ] till they are brown, and then put in a little broth to moisten them. When it has boiled a few minutes strain into another saucepan, and put in a leek, some parsley, sweet basil, half a dozen cloves, some mushrooms, truffles, and a few bread crumbs. When it has stewed gently a quarter of an hour put in the fish, &c., from the mortar. Let the whole stew some time longer, but be careful that it does not boil. When it is sufficiently done strain it through a coarse sieve. CULLIS, ITALIAN. Put into a stewpan half a ladleful of cullis, as much essence of ham, half a ladleful of gravy, as much of broth, three or four onions cut into slices, four or five cloves of garlic, a little beaten coriander seed, with a lemon pared and cut into slices, a little sweet basil, mushrooms, and good oil; put all over the fire ; let it stew a quarter of an hour ; take the fat off well; let it be of a good taste ; and it may be used with all sorts of meat and fish, particularly with glazed fish. This sauce will also serve for two chickens, six pigeons, quails, or ducklings, and all sorts of tame and wild fowl. CULLIS FOR RAGOUTS. Having cut 3 lbs. of lean veal and ^ lb. of ham into slices, lay them in the bottom of a stewpan ; put in carrots, parsnips, and an onion sliced; cover it, and set it stewing over a stOve; when it has a good colour and begins to stick put to it a little melted butter, and shake in a little flour; keep it moving a little while until the flour is fried; then moisten it with gravy or broth, of each a like quantity; put in some parsley, basil, a whole leek, a bay leaf, some mushrooms and truffles minced small, three or four cloves, and the crust of two French rolls; let all these simmer together for three quarters of an hour; then take out the slices of veal, strain it, and keep it for all sorts of ragouts. * CULLIS OF ROOTS. Cut some carrots, parsnips, parsley root, and onions into slices, put them into a stewpan over the fire, and shape them round; take two dozen blanched almonds and the crumb of two French rolls soaked first in good fish broth, pound them with the roots in a mortar, and then boil all together; season it with pepper and salt, strain it off, and use it for herb or fish soups. CULLIS, WHITE. Take a piece of veal, cut it into small bits, with some thin slices of ham and two onions, each cut into four; moisten it with some broth seasoned with mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, green onions, and three cloves, and 60 let it stew. Being stewed take out the meat and roots with a skimmer, put in a few crumbs of bread, and let it stew softly. Take the white of a fowl or two chickens, and put it into a mortar; being well pounded mix it in the cullis, but it must not boil, and the cullis must be very white; but if not white enough pound two dozen sweet almonds blanched, and put it into the cullis; then boil a glass of milk, and add to it the cullis ; let it be of a good flavour, and strain it off; then put it into a small kettle, and keep it warm. It may be used for white loaves, crust of white bread, and biscuits. CULM. See Anthkaoite. CUPPING is of two kinds; one by which some blood is taken away, generally simply termed cupping; the other when no blood is abstracted, which is accordingly termed dry cupping. The preliminary steps of the operation are the same in both cases : the part to which it is intended to apply the cupping-glasses is washed with warm water, or a warm cloth is merely applied to it, in order to attract blood to the part. A small bell-shaped glass, a portion of the air of which has been expelled by holding it for an instant over the flame of a spirit-lamp, is immediately applied to the spot which has been prepared. The usual amount of pressure on the part being diminished, the blood flows to the part, and produces distention of the vessels and elevation of the surface, as well as a purple or livid colour. If it be intended to take away blood the cupping-glass is speedily removed, and an instrument called a scarificator, con- taining a number of lancets, sometimes as many as twenty, is applied, and made to act so as to inflict a corresponding number of incisions on the skin and subjacent vessels. " The instru- ment is so constructed that the depth to which the lancets penetrate may be made greater or less at the option of the practitioner." It is not in general advisable that the depth should be very great, as more blood flows, and the vessels will continue to bleed longer, if only partially divided, than if completely cut through. The cupping-glass, exhausted as before, is to be immediately replaced, and if skilfully applied, and the air has not been too much I'arefied, by which too great pressure is made by the edges of the glass, a considerable quantity of blood will flow into it. When neai-ly full, or if the blood begin to coagulate, the glass is to be care- fully removed, the wounded part quicldy washed with a sponge with warm water, and the glass having been emptied and washed, is to be again applied if a sufficient quantity of blood should not have been obtained by the first application. Two or more glasses may be applied to different spots at the same time, so that the quantity of blood desired, or necessary to obtain the object in view, may be more quickly abstracted. " Where dry cupping only is intended the glasses may be permitted to remain on the skin for a few moments, and replaced five or six times with a little variation of their position, in