ALT C 15 ] is nearly dry ; then put it on a stronger fire till it flows, and take it off the fire, and keep work- ing it to the sides of the pan to granulate and make the almonds take the sugar ; do not let it burn ; turn them out of the pan and separate them. Some of the blanched may be coloured before they are put into the sugar, and some of them after, with cochineal and other colours. ALMONDS, PICKLED (Green). Boil vine- gar according to the quantity of pickle you wish to make ; skim it well; add to it mace, nutmeg, ginger, and pepper; cut your almonds, which should be quite young and soft, in halves ; put them into jars and pour the vinegar over them. Take care to have in each jar sufficient liquor to cover the almonds. ALMONDS, PRESERVED (Geeen). Put some water into the saucepan with two handsful of bran, and when it has boiled up twice, throw in some green almonds ; let them boil up once, then take them outwith a skimmer and rub them well in your hands to take off the down ; as you do this, throw them into cold water; then boil them in water till on pricking them the pin easily enters and they shrink; then clarify some sugar, lib. to lib. of fruit ; boil up the syrup four or five successive days, morning and evening, without the fruit. When cold pour it over the fruit in jars. ALMONDS, SMOOTH. Dry them in a preserving pan, and throw in about a gill of smooth, boiled sugar, and stir and turn the almonds in it, leaving them to dry, and adding as many coatings as is judged necessary. ALOES. Socotorine aloes, which is the most esteemed, is brought, wrapped in skins, from the island of Socotora in the Indian Ocean. It is dark coloured, of a glossy, clear surface, and in some degree pellucid; in mass of a yellowish-red colour with a purple cast; fracture unequal; easily pulverisable; when reduced to powder, of a bright golden colour. It is hard and friable in the winter, somewhat plastic in summer, and growing soft between the fingers. Its taste is bitter and disagreeable, though accompanied with some aromatic flavour; the smell is not very unpleasant, and somewhat resembles that of myrrh. It is said not to produce haemorrhoidal affections so readily as Barbadoes aloes. Medical use. Aloes in doses of two grains or less is a stomachic, and with this intention is an ingredient of the various digestion pills. In larger doses it acts as a purgative, but its opera- tion is tardy, first manifesting itself eight or twelve hours after it has been taken. It is therefore frequently given at bed-time. It also acts in a small dose, and hence it is to be used whenever we wish to increase the secretion of bile, and correct the torpidity of the liver. It is particularly adapted to persons who lead a sedentary life. Aloes is a bitter, stimulating purgative, exert- ing its action chiefly on the rectum. In doses of from five to fifteen grains it empties the large intestines, without making the stools thin, and likewise warms the habit, quickens the circulation, and promotes the uterine and haemorrhoidal fluxes. If given in so large a dose as to purge effectually, it often occasions an irritation about the anus, and sometimes a discharge of blood. It is frequently employed in female cases, and of the haemorrhoidal discharge ; but it is particularly serviceable in habitual costive- ness, to persons of a phlegmatic temperament and sedentary life, and where the stomach is oppressed and weakened. Aloes is also used as an anthelmintic, both given internally and applied to the abdomen in the form of a plaster. Dissolved in alcohol, it is employed to check haemorrhages in recent wounds, and as a deter- gent in ulcers. From its warmth and activity it is accused of causing colic pain, bloody stools, and other haemorrhages, and has been forbidden in persons of a plethoric, nervous, and diy habit of bodj% in pregnant women, and in fevers and inflam- mations generally; yet it is often given in these with advantage. Dose. The effect of aloes is by no means proportioned to its dose, so that a few grains operate nearly as well as several times the number. Five, ten, or fifteen grains may be given in a single dose as a purgative, but against a costive habit two or three grains will generally suffice. Corresponding quantities may be given in solution, and the action is more speedy Some foreign therapeutists assert, but connected with a hypothesis as to its mode of action, that aloes has absolutely no effect when thi'own into the rectum as a clyster. ALTERATIVES are medicines which pro- duce a beneficial change in the patient's health without causing any strong evacuation, either by perspiration or other discharge. They do not produce any immediate effect, but gradual])' improve the health by repeated doses. Almost every kind of medicine can be so administered as to be an alterative. Thus 10 grains of ipecacuanha will produce vomiting, but ^ grain taken an hour before a meal daily for several days successively will increase the taker's appe- tite and improve his digestion. To many, pre- parations of mercury in full doses are poison- ous, but in minute doses they relieve from diseases which render life miserable. Arsenic so deadly a poison, will often, when properly administered, remove ague, and the most ago- nising of headaches Sarsaparilla, quinine, and