ETH ESS L 477 ] with 100 of the smallest oysters very finely, and put them to the liquor; season with mace, all- spice, and pepper, and reduce to a fourth; melt 1 lb. of anchovies in white wine, and add it during the boiling; strain through a napkin, and have small fumigated bottles to put it in, and seal it tightly. Mince the oysters, and let them simmer over the fire till every watery part is evaporated in clarified butter, but they must not boil. Fill small pots just with what will be sufficient to use at a time for melted butter or any sauce. ESSENCE OF VINEGAR. During the hard frost expose vinegar to the weather in shallow vessels : the watery parts will freeze, but the sj irit will remain fluid. Repeatedly expose the fluid as it is obtained, and if the season be very cold a pint of strong vinegar will be re- duced, by the frequent exposure, to about a table-spoonful of finely flavoured essence, and very pungent. ESSENCES are the peculiar flavours or odours of vegetables or other substances ex- tracted from them, and comprised in a concen- trated form. See Anchovy, Biorgamot, &c. ESSENTIAL OILS are oils obtained from vegetables by Distillation. (See our notes upon that subject.) That of the camomile is obtained from the flowers ; caraway from the seeds ; fennel from the seeds ; juniper from the beri ies; savine from the leaves; sassafras from the root, bark, and wood ; lavender from the flowering spikes ; ^je/5^er))n«f from the recent herb in flower; spearmint from the recent herb in flower; inmento from the fruit or berry; origanum from the recent herb in flower ; aniseed from the seeds; pennyroyal from the recent herb in flower; rosemary from the flowering tops ; and rue from the herb in flower. Volatile oils are obtained from recent or dried vegetables. Some, as oil of orange flowers and roses, can be procured only from the petals when recent or preserved with salt, while others are generally distilled from the vegetable dried. It is thought that herbs and flowers moderately dried yield a greater pi'oportion of volatile oil than if distilled when fresh. Drying may be useful either by diminishing the bulk of the subject to be distilled, or by causing it to part with its oil more easily ; besides, aromatic waters distilled from the dry herb are more fragrant than from the fresh. Large quantities of the oils of lavender, peppermint, spearmint, and pennyroyal are annually distilled in this country from the fresh herb. The oils of aniseed, camomile, caraway, juniper, origanum, rosemary, and pimento are usually imported. Volatile oils in themselves are not so volatile as water; but many of them rise at 212° un- changed along with aqueous vapour; others are less volatile, and the water must be saturated with sea salt, to raise its temperature to 230°, before it will come over. The subject of distillation, if dry, should be macerated in the water until it be perfectly penetrated by it. To promote this effect woods should be thinly shaved, or sawn across the grain, roots cut transversely into thin slices, barks reduced into coarse powder, and seeds slightly bruised. Very compact and tenacious substances require the maceration to be con- tinued for some time ; for those of a softer and looser texture a short time is sufficient. Herbs and flowers stand in no need of maceration, and are even injured by it. The proportion of water to be added A'aries considerably. More than enough diminishes the product of oil, or prevents its separation altogether, while a deficiency of water does not bring over the whole oil, and increases the risk of still-burning. Some substances never yield oil on the first distillation, and it is necessary to return the distilled water repeatedly upon fresh quantities of the subject in the still pot, and draw it off again and again, until it comes over sufficiently impregnated to part with a propor- tion of the oil. This process is termed cohoha- tion, and by means of it the virtues even of inodorous plants are supposed to be extracted. ETHER is made from alcohol, or spirit of wine, by mixing with it some acid, as the sulphuric or nitric, and distilling from it the very light and inflammable liquid which is formed. Ether taken internally is an excellent anti- spasmodic, cordial, and stimulant. In catarrhal and asthmatic complaints its vapour is inhaled with advantage by holding in the mouth a piece of sugar on which ether has been dropped. It is given as a cordial in nausea, and in febrile diseases of the typhoid type; as an anti- spasmodic in hysteria, and in other nervous and painful diseases; and as a stimulus in soporose and apoplectic affections. Regular practitioners most frequently give only half a drachm or a drachm for a dose ; but empirics have sometimes ventured upon much larger quantities, and with incredible benefit. When applied externally it is capable of producing two very opposite effects according to its management; for if it be pre- vented from evaporating by covering the place to which it is applied closely with the hand, it proves a powerful stimulant and rubefacient, and excites a sensation of burning heat. In this way it is frequently used for removing pains in the head or teeth. On the contrary, if it be dropped on any part of the body, exposed freely to the contact of the air, its rapid evaporation produces an intense degree of cold, and, as this is attended with a proportional diminution of