CUR CUR L S87 J knife lliat it may be equally liquid in all parts, and tlien with a fork remove such of the almonds as may lie above the others; strevf over the Avhole 2 ozs. of dry currants, and put it into a moderately heated oven for two minutes ; then strew over the currants some crushed sugar, and replace it in the oven till it acquires a clear yellowish tinge on both sides. When done cut it into pieces two inches square, and while warm press them on a round stick about two inches in diameter, to give them a semicircular form. This operation should be performed as quickly as possible, that the wafers may not change colour. CURRANT, DRY, BRIOCHE. This is made in the same manner as Cheese Brioche only that currants lb. to 8 lbs. of the paste) are used instead of the cheese. The same quantity of stoned raisins may also be used if preferred. CURRANT, DRY, CAKES. Take 2lbs. of fine flour, 1^ lb. of butter, the j'olks of five or six eggs, l^lb. of sugar, 6 spoonsful of white wine, 3 spoonsful of caraway seeds, 2 nutmegs, and 1 lb. of currants; beat up the butter with your hand till it is very thin ; dry the flour well, and put in the caraway seeds and nutmegs finely grated. Afterwards put them all into your batter, with the eggs, white wine, and rose water ; mingle them well together ; put in the currants, let your oven be pretty hot, and as soon as they are coloured they are sufficiently done, CURRANT, DRY, FRITTERS (without Eggs). Take half a pint of ale, not bitter; stir into it flour to make it tolerably thick, and a few currants ; beat this up thickly, have the lard boil- ing, and throw in a large spoonful at a time. CURRANT, DRY, GENOISES. Having \rashed and dried J lb. of currants, mix half of them and the peel of a lemon finely shred with the usual preparation. Finish and glaze them with i lb. of powder sugar and a little white of egg. As you do them strew over each a few currants, and dry them a minute in the oven. CURRANT FRITTERS (without Eggs). Take about half a pint of mild ale and as much flour as will make it into a thick batter ; add a little sugar and a few currants; beat it up quickly, and with a spoon drop it into boiling lard. CURRANT ICE CREAM. Take one large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into a basin with half a gill of syrup, and squeeze in a lemon and a half; add a pint of cream and a little cochineal; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. CURRANT ICES (1). Boil 2 lbs. of red currants a moment with J lb. of raspberries ; rub them through a sieve, adding a pint of water, and then the sugar, which must be very well dissolved before icing. CURRANT ICES (2). Pick some currants from their stalks, and squeeze them through a sieve ; then take clarified sugar, boil it to a very liigh degree, add it to your currant juice, and if you choose squeeze in the juice of four lemons, as it will make it more mellow; strain it through the sieve a second time, put it in the iciug pot, and finish the same as all other ices. CURRANT JELLY (1). Set on the fire in a sugar pan a pint of smooth claiified sugar; when it boils put in a quart of picked red currants, in which let them boil for an hour. Be careful to skim them well, and at times add a little cold water to raise the scum. When boiled enough run the liquor through a sieve into a basin, ia which you have squeezed three lemons; then put in some isinglass, and set your jelly in a mould to ice as usual. CURRANT JELLY (2). For this purpose the ripest red currants should be taken, as the white are not so good for jelly ; crush them, and press out all the juice into a glazed pan ; cover it very closely, and set it in a cold place for six days ; then with great care remove the thick skin which covers the juice, and pour it into another vessel, throwing away what remains at the bottom. When the juice is perfectly clear weigh it, and for each pound take i lb. of crushed sugar; put them on the fire together, and much scum will soon rise, which must all be taken off; let it remain on the fire for about an hour, and then try it as follows :—Put a small quantity on a very cold plate, and if when it cools it becomes thick and of proper consistence take the pan from the fire; if it is not let it remain till that is the case. Pour the jelly whilst hot, and the glasses must be quite cold before you cover them with paper. CURRANT JELLY DUMPLINGS. Take a piece of nice rich paste, and roll it out rather thin; then take some currant jelly, spread it over the paste, and roll it up ; roll it in a cloth, and tie it at each end ; boil it an hour, and then serve. CURRANT JELLY (without Fire). Press the juice from your currants through a sieve; weigh it, and to every pound put 1 lb. of powder sugar; stir them together well, pass it through a straining bag, and let it stand a little; then put it into pots, and expose it to the sun for two days. CURRANT JELLY (with Raspberries). Take 7 lbs. of fine ripe red currants, 3 lbs. of white, and 2 lbs. of white raspberries; press them through a very close horsehair sieve ; pour the juice on 9 lbs. of double-refined sugar broken in small pieces; place the whole on a brisk fire, taking care to remove the scum as soon as it appears. When the boilings follow each other very quickly take out the skimmer (which should be of copper). I