¥13 [ fi Keep the fish no longer on the fire than to become hot, but not boil. FISH FRITTERS. Make a light force- meat with fish of any kind; then put a small quantity into pieces of puff paste the size of a common puff, fry them in boiling lard, and drain them dry. Serve them to table with truffles or bechamel sauce round them. FISH, GLAZE OF. Take some fish broth, to which add an eel cut in pieces, and the heads, tails, fins, and large bones of either sea or river fish; wash them perfectly clean, and chop them into small pieces. When they have been boiling in the broth for about an hour strain off the liquor, and reduce it to a jelly, which is used to glaze all sorts of maigre dishes. FISH GRAVY (1). Cut two or three little fish of any kind into small pieces; put them into a saucepan with rather more water than will cover them, a bit of toasted bread, a blade of mace, some lemon-peel, whole pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let these simmer gently till the gravy is rich and good; brown a little bit of butter in a stewpan, and when it is browned strain the gravy into it, and let it boil for a few minutes. FISH GRAVY (2). Skin two or three eels or some flounders, and gut and wash them thoroughly; cut them into small pieces, put them into a saucepan, cover them with water, and add a little crust of bread toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a little horseradish (about a tea- spoonful); cover closely, and let all simmer; add a bit of butter and some flour, and boil with the above. FISH JELLY. Eub lightly the bottom of a saucepan with butter, cover it with sliced onions and carrots, and then add the remains and carcasses of fish, a little parsley and scallions, a bay leaf, thyme, sweet basil, and a clove of garlic. To these ingredients add a ladleful of fish soup, let it boil, put it upon a hot hearth or table, and let it simmer until it becomes a jelly; again add to it some fish soup, pour it off clear into a clean saucepan, and let it simmer another hour; run it through a napkin, reduce it to a jelly, and use it for glazing. FISH MATELOTE BOURGEOISE. A matelote is generally composed of several sorts of fish, such as carp, eel, barbel, and small pike. Scale, gut, and cut them into pieces ; put into a stewpan a bunch of mixed herbs, composed of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf, with chives, three cloves, and some cloves of garlic; put the fish on this seasoning, pour on some good red wine and as much gravy or bouillon, adding salt and pepper; set the stewpan on the fire, and let it simmer twenty minutes. Put into another )2 ] FIS stewpan a good piece of butter, twenty button onions, and let them take a fine light colour; add two spoonsful of flour, and pour in some fish liquor strained through a sieve ; add some mushrooms stewed in butter, with a dash of vinegar or lemon, and a little water. When the matelote sauce is reduced to a proper con- sistency, and the onions are done, dress the fish, masking it with this ragout. Garnish the dish with crusts fried in butter, and small crayfish. FISH MATELOTE A LA MARINlfiRE. Clean the fish as above, take a kettle propor- tioned to the quantity of fish, and put at the bottom of it a bunch of mixed herbs, of thyme, chives, a bay leaf, parsley, a score of small onions, three cloves, a few mushrooms, some cloves of garlic cut or bruised, some good red wine, pepper, and salt. Half an hour before serving hang the kettle on the hook over a flaming fire ; at the moment it boils add half a glass of brandy, some pieces of butter rolled in flour, and stir it a little to thicken. It ought to catch fire, and it is only the quickness of the operation which renders the fish firm and of good^ flavour. The sauce being reduced to its proper thickness, lay the fish in the dish, omit- ting the bunch of herbs, and garnish the mate- lote with a crust of toasted bread. Pour the mushrooms and the onions over the fish as well as the sauce; some crayfish may also be added. FISH MATELOTE VIERGE. Take a carp, an eel, a pike, or a barbelgut and scale them, and cut off their fins; skin the eel, and cut up the whole into pieces, which put into a stewpan, with a bunch of mixed herbs ; add seasoning, two-thirds of white wine and one of water, and put in a piece of butter; let the whole boil up, and take it off the fire. Fry some button onions and mushrooms in butter ; add a little sugar, pepper, nutmeg, two or three spoonsful of flour, and a little liquor from the fish. When the ragout is done dress the fish in the middle of the dish; thicken the ragout with yolks of eggs. With the sauce mask the onions and mushrooms, placed round with some fried crusts and crayfish. FISH PATTIES. Take a carp, a tench, and an eel, and boil them a little; half stew six oysters; pick the flesh from the bones of the fish, and beat it together in a mortar with the melts of the fish, some mace, and some white wine; make some rich puff paste, line the tins with it, and then put in the forcemeat, with one oyster and a bit of butter ; put on the top, and bake them. FISH PIE (1). Clean and cut fresh sal- mon, cod, turbot, soles, sturgeon, or haddocks into moderate-sized pieces ; then roll them into a mixture made of parsley, thyme, and shallots, chopped finely, some beaten spices, powder of