CYD [ 359 ] CYD fruit lias acquired such a state of nmtmnty as to be ready to drop from the tree, ^^hen the limbs and branches should be slightly shaken, and dis- burdened in a partial maimer of-its apples, thus taking only such as are in a ripe state, leaving the others to acquire a due degree of maturity. It is, indeed, thought best to make three gatherings of the crop, keeping each by itself. The latter gatherings, as well as the windfalls, can^ however, only be employed in making inferior cyder. The prime cyder must he drawn from the first gatherings which have been made. The merit of cyder will always depend much on the proper mixture, or rather, on the proper separation of the fruits. Each kind should be collected separately, and kept till it becomes perfectly mellow. For this pur- pose, in the common practice of the country, they are placed in heaps of ten inches or a foot thick, and exposed to the sun, ail', and rain, not being over covered except in very severe frosts. The strength and flavour of the future liquor are, however, increased by keeping the fruit under cover some time before it is ground; but unless a situation can be afforded it in which it is exposed to a free current of aii% and where it can be spread very thinly, it is apt to contract an unpleasant smeil, which will much affect the cyder produced from it. No criterion appears to be known by which the most proper point of maturity in the fruit may be ascertained with accuracy; but there is good reason to believe that it improves as long as it continues to acquire a deeper shade of yellow. Each heap should he examined prior to its being ground, and any decayed or green fruit carefully taken away. When the fruit of different sorts and qualities has been kept separately from one another a few weeks it will be perceived that some of the prime sorts are in a proper state of matura- tion, that the pulp has acquired its highest degree of richness, the kernels assumed their brownest colour, the rind still free from any appearance of rottenness, and that they easily yield to the pressure of the thumb: then is the time, and such is the fruit employed in making prime cyder. Every necessary utensil should now be got in readiness ; the mill, pi'ess, tubs, casks, pails, and bowls well washed, and suffered to dry thoroughly before they are employed in the business. Grinding the apples. In the business of grinding the fruit for this use into what is termed pommage several different methods are practised. It has been suggested by some that each sort of apple should be ground separately, or at least such sorts in mixture as they become ripe at the same time; but others state that this practice is that by which " fine cyder " of different flavours and degrees of strength is ob- tained from the same orchard, the liquors being mixed after they are made. It is, however, allowed that " in all common cases " the practice of grinding different varieties of fruit equally ripe together is found eligible, as it is less diffi- cult to find the requisite degrees of richness, astringency, and flavour in three varieties tlian in one, and hence it is supposed that cyders made from the juice of mixed fruits under common management generally succeed with greater certainty than those from only one kind. In the grinding the fruit should be re- duced as nearly as possible to a uniform con- sistence, in such a manner as that the rinds and kernels may be scarcely discernible from the general mass, the operation proceeding slowly with a free access of air. Preparing the ground fruit. Cyderists do not all agree with regard to the exact time the pommage should be carried to the press. The usual average is from about eighteen to twenty- four hours. At the end of this time the ground fruit, or pommage, is carried to the press, and a square cake or cheese made of it by placing very clean sweet straw or reeds between the alternate layers of pulp, or pommage, or by putting it into hair cloths spread upon the vats, aud placing them one upon another: they are turned up on the sides and covers over the pulp so as nearly to meet in the centres. They should be laid very even, and ten or twelve may be laid over each other in regular layers, the square frame of the press being raised with tliem, keeping the pile of a uniform size. Upon the whole a strong board is placed, wider than the pile, on which the blocks of the press rest. It is of the utmost importance that the straw or reed, where it is used, should be sweet, and perfectly free from fustiness, lest the cyder be impregnated therewith. Particular care ought also to be taken to keep the hair cloths sweet by frequently washing and drying, or the ill effects of their acidity will be com- municated to the cyder. To this cake or cheese, after standing awhile, a slight pressure is at first to be given by lowering the screw of the press, which must be gradually increased as the cakes become drier until all the must or juice is expressed, which is usually completed by a long lever and windlass, after which the juice must be strained through a coarse hair sieve, and put either into open vats or close casks. Fermentation. Fermentation should not, by too much heat, be carried on too rapidly, nor by extreme cold too slowly, as in either case the fermenting body would be injured ; therefore a certain degree of warmth, or rather, imper- ceptible heat, conduces best to regulate this operation. This degree of waimth may be