AIR AGE [ 4 ] General decay and decrease of energy at seven times seven 49 Old age at eight times seven . . .56 The grand climacteric of the ancients at nine times seven 63 Whenever tlie general decay is perceptible, whether at 49, or earlier or later, then a more nourishing and cordial diet should be adopted, more warmth of clothing, and more sleep. The power of the stomach to digest food has become weaker, and in proportion to that weakness the quantity of food taken should be diminished; but what is taken should be nutritious and as easy of digestion as possible. See Aliment, Clothing, Diet, Exercise, and Sleep. AGRIMONY TEA. Pour 1 pint of boiling water on 1 oz. of the fresh tops of agrimony (gathered before the flowers are formed), and 1 oz. of liquorice root, sliced; macerate for one hour in a close vessel and a warm situation; then strain for use. Dose. A tea-cupful or more two or three times a day. It has been found useful in disorders of the skin, and in a disordered state of the liver. AGUE. There are three stages in an ague fit—the cold, the hot, and the sweating stages. When a fit of ague is coming on, the patient feels a kind of distress about the pit of the stomach; he becomes weak, languid, and un- equal to any exertion. There is a chilly feeling along the course of the spine ; the countenance becomes pale, the skin dry and rough, like the skin of a plucked goose; his breathing becomes short; his pulse feeble, though quick ; he will pass his urine often, but it is small in quantity and light in colour; his tongue is dry and white, and his bowels inactive. This state is succeeded by the hot stage. By degrees the shiverings alternate with flushes of heat, which begin about the face. The skin gradually resumes it natural colour and smooth- ness, then becomes hot, red, and diy. The pulse is rapid and strong, the head aches, and the breathing is difficult. The urine is now high coloured, but still small in quantity. The third stage soon follows. A moisture appears on the face, and a copious perspiration breaks out; the thirst abates; the pulse be- comes again natural; the urine is turbid and copious, and the tongue regains its natural look. When this stage has lasted some time it gradually subsides, and the patient becomes nearly as well as before The best treatment during the cold stage is external warmth. A warm bath or, at all events, let the feet be put into warm water ; then place the patient in bed, with hot bran on the pit of the stomach, and a bottle of hot water to the feet. For children, a good thing is to rub a lina- ment, made of equal parts of soap linament and laudanum, along the course of the spine. In the beginning of the symptoms, Q or 3 grains of calomel should be given with 8 grains of rhubarb at bed-time, and the next day 2 grains of the sulphate of quina, with 1 oz. of infusion of roses, and 5 drops of diluted sulphuric acid. Take 2 table-spoonsful of this mixture every six hours. The stomach sometimes is so irritable that it will not retain the mixture, and when this is the case mix 2 grains of sulphate of quina in about 1 oz. of gruel, adding 2 or 3 drops of laudanum, and let this be injected into the rectum. The patient must not discontinue his medi- cine when the fit has once missed him, for it is always likely to recur, and he must, therefore, continue to take the medicine for about a fort- night, gradually diminishing the quantity after the first week. The causes of ague are the malaria, or un- healthy exhalations arising from putrefying vegetable matters in marshy places, or where there is much stagnant water. To sleep at night in such places in the open air is almost sm'e to bring on an attack of ague. Indeed, it is best in an aguish district always to sleep in one of the upper rooms of the house, and never on the ground-floor. " Early to bed," too, in such districts is a good rule, but the remainder of the proverb is not so applicable, as " early rising," or at least early leaving the house and inhaling the morning air will be found pre- judicial. AGUE DROPS. A preparation of arsenic too dangerous to be adminstered unprofes- sionally. AIR. Pure atmospheric air is quite as es- sential for the preservation of health as are pure water and wholesome food. Respiration comprises two distinct and sepa- rate actions, and those chiefly effected by the muscles of the chest: inspiration, or the intro- duction of air into the lungs ; and expiration, or the return or expulsion of the air from the lungs. It is essential to life, and there is a great general relation between the frequency of the pulse and the frequency of the respiratory movements. When the pulse beats at the ordinary standard in the adult there are usually two respirations for every seven pulsations. Any variation from this standard may reason- ably, except in violent exercise, justify the sus- picion of incipient ill-health. A man in perfect health should not feel that he is breathing. The great bulk of the air is composed of ni- trogen (called also azote by many) and oxygen. The proportion is four volumes or measures of nitrogen and one volume or measure of oxygen,.