CHI CHI [ 296 ] fear of making a child delicate, weakly, and susceptible of cold. 9. Avoid carrying a child always on the same arm—for fear of making it crooked. 10. Never confine a child's limbs by wrapping its clothes tightly round it, especially at night—■ by inaction of the muscles and retention of moisture the child will become weak and sickly. 11. Avoid exposing an infant to the open air in a cold season when its bowels are dis- ordered, or if it has shortness of breathing, with fever and cough—for fear of bringing on high inflammation. 12. Never allow a child's food to be chewed —it is not only a nasty practice, but if the nurse has a sore mouth or gums she may com- municate disease. 13. Never provoke violent laughter, nor dis- regard violent crying—for fear of a fit in either case. 14. Never wash a child with milk, with a view to heal a chafed part—milk will inflame, and cold water will heal it. CHILLI VINEGAR. This is commonly made with the foreign bird pepper; but you will obtain a much finer flavour from infusing 50 fresh red English chillies, cut in half or pounded, iu 1 pint of the best vinegar for a fortnight, or i oz. of pepper. Many people cannot eat fish without the addition of an acid and Cayenne pepper: to such palates this will be au agreeable relish. CHILLI WINE. Poimd and steep 50 fresh red chillies in ^ pint of brandy, white wine, or claret for fourteen days. Tiiis is a..bonne louche for the lovers of Cayenne, of which it takes up a larger proportion of its flavour than of its fire, which, being instantly diffused, is a very useful auxiliary to warm and finish soups, sauces, &c. CHIMNEY: To Peevent Smoking. It fre- quently happens, that the smoking of chimneys is occasioned by their being carried up narrower at the top than below, or in a zigzag form, or in angles. Indeed, in some instances this is owing to accidental causes, but, for the most part, it must be attributed to those above men- tioned. When chimneys are constructed in a pyramidal or tapering form, especially if the house be of a considerable height, there is much reason to apprehend that they will smoke ; the air of a room, being rarefied, is forced into the funnel of the chimney,- and receives from the fire an additional impetus to carry up the smoke. Thus it is evident that, as the smoke ascends, the impelling force is lessened; it moves more slowly, and consequently requires a greater pro- portion of space to circulate through; whereas, in the usual way, it has less room, from the sides of the chimney being gradually contracted. Al- though this method of constructing chimneys may not meet with general approbation, because it is supposed that, the wider a chimney is at the top, the more liberty the wind has to blow down, yet, on the other hand, it is obvious that, from the structure of the chimney and from other causes, the wind, having no resistance to overcome, must necessarily return, and thus facilitate the free egress of the smoke. In the usual manner of building pyramidal chimneys, when a current of air rushes downwards the wind and smoke are in a manner confined, and, as the resistance is less from below, the smoke bursts out into the room. Hence the reverse method before suggested has proved effectual after every other expedient had failed, and even in a house standing in the most disadvantageous situation, namely, under a lofty mountain to the southward, from which blasts were blown down upon it. A vent was carried up without angles as perpendicularly as possible, being made several inches wider at the top than at the bottom; the funnel was contracted in a throat directly above the fireplace, and widened gradually upwards. Since that time the house has not only ceased to smoke, but, when the doors stand open, the draught is so strong that it will carry a piece of paper up to the top of the chimney. The ad- vantage of erecting chimneys after this mode is so evident that we venture strongly to recom- mend its adoption; for, independently of their being exempt from smoking, and contributing to purify the atmosphere by the rapid current of air continually circulating through the apart- ment, it will prevent large quantities of soot from accumulating, and, consequently, remove every apprehension of their taking fire. Various other experiments have been made with a view to prevent or cure smoky chimneys. Of these we shall enumerate only the two fol- lowing, which deserve particular notice. The first is, not to suffer the height of the mantel to exceed one-third of that of the room, and to carry the jaumbs and breast upright at least to the ceiling, when they should be turned or sloped as easily and gradually as possible. The jaumbs from the hearth to the mantel should describe the form of a curve, and the lower part of the mantel a broad horizontal plane; the distance from the inside of »the breast to the back, on each side of the throat, being from ten to four- teen or sixteen inches, according to the size of the chinmey. This mode of reducing smoky chimneys, we are informed, has repeatedly been found successful. Another method, which is attended with but little expense, consists in setting the grate, if a Bath stove, eleven or twelve inches distant from the fender, and in cutting away the back of the chimney, so as to leave a space of two inches between the back of