[ 211 3 CAL CAL ■witli a spoonful of mustard. Strew bread-crumbs and grated cheese, and colour it in the oven. Wipe the dish free from fat, and serve with clear, relishing sauce. CALF'S CHAWDRON AND ANCHO- VIES. Melt some butter in a stewpan, and toss in it some small sliced onions ; add a little stock or veal broth; put into this the chaw- dron properly prepared, and cut in pieces with salt, pepper, tarragon, and herbs. When they are flavoured pour them into a buttered mould, and place on them 6 anchovies, -washed and split in 4 pieces, in the forms of crosses. Cover the whole with caul, and bake in a moderate oven. CALF'S CHAWDRON AND CHEESE. Toss up the chawdron with a bit of butter, and some small onions, with ^ glass of stock. Cut some Gruyere cheese into thin slices, melt it, and baste it with veal gravy, mixed with the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs. Pour over this the chawdron and sauce, and brown it. CALF'S CHAWDRON FRITTERS. Cook a prepared chawdron with salt, parsley, scallions, garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, and 2 or 3 cloves. When sufBciently done drain it, and clear away the fat; cut it small, and marinade it one hour in butter, 2 spoonsful of vinegar, parsley, scallions, shallots (all minced), salt, and pepper. Warm the marinade, then take out the chawdron and its seasonings, and roll them up by degrees, making the herbs, &c., stick to them. Dip them in egg and bread, and fry them. CALF'S CHAWDRON PIE. Make a ragout with a chawdron (previously boiled), mushrooms, parsley, shallots, garlic, 1 glass of white wine and cuUis. When quite done cut the chawdron in slices, and put it with the sauce into a baked puff-crust. Skim the fat off, and add pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. CALF'S CHAWDRON PUDDING. Pre- pare your chawdron, and cut into small piecoe of the size of a nut. Season with salt, pepper, tarragon, scallions, spices, and pork fat cut small. You may add some godiveau and the crumb of bread boiled in milk, and beaten up ■with yolks of eggs. Soften some pieces of caul in warm water, lay them open on the table, and fill them with the above mixture. Form them to any shape you please, and bake them. When crisp they are ready to serve. Pour on them blond or veal gravy. CALF'S CHI-TTERLINGS. Cut into dice some bacon, a calf's udder, and the fat that comes from the chitterlings and calf's chawdron. Put them all into a stewpan, with a bay leaf, shallot, pepper, and salt; toss them up, take off the pan, and thicken it with 4 or 5 yolks of eggs and some bread-crumbs. Keep it warm and fill the chitterlings with it; tie up the other end and boil them; let them cool in their own liquor. When wanted boil them over a moderate fire. CALF'S CHITTERLINGS (Stewed). Cut a calf's chitterlings lengthways in slices about 1 inch wide. Take some ham, bacon, white part of chickens, and cut them in the same way. Put them into a stewpan, with salt, pepper, sweet herbs, and spice; then, having cleansed the skins, cut and tie them, fill them with slices ; line a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, pepper, salt, bay leaf, and an onion. Lay in the chitterlings, cover them with bacon and veal, pour in 1 pint of white wine, put the lid down quite close, and stew them with fire, above and below, for some time; then take out the puddings, and broil them in buttered papers. CALF'S EARS (Braised). Scald, blanch, and clean the ears thoroughly from the hairs, and braise them in the following manner:—Put some good stock into a small saucepan, svith i pint of white wine, i lemon sliced (witbout the peel), a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and some roots. Stew the ears in this, and cover them with bacon. When done serve with sauce piquante or d la ravigotte. CALF'S EARS (in Marinade). When you have prepared the number of ears you require, boil them in some blauc, and then throw them into cold water. When well drained cut each ear into 3 or 4 pieces ; put them into pickle made of vinegar, salt, and a bag of herbs ; drain again, and dip each piece into batter, and fry of a good colour. Before you place them in a dish they must be drained a third time. Garnish with fried parsley. CALF'S EARS (in Peas). When you have properly prepared four ears cook them in a little clear stock, lemon-juice, salt, pepper, a bunch of parsley, cloves, garlic, and a laurel leaf. When done serve them with a ragout of peas prepared as follows :—Put 1^ pint of peas, with a bit of butter, a little parsley, green onions, and a pincli of flour; moisten with gravy and stock into a saucepan, over a gentle fire, until sufBciently done ; put in a lump of sugar about the size of a walnut, a little salt, and a spoonful of cullis. Pour the whole over the ears. CALF'S EARS (Stuffed). Scald two or three pairs of calves' ears, and having blanched, cool and singe them; fill each ear with a good stuffing, and press it in well; dip the ears in egg, cover them with bread-crumbs, and fry them of a nice brown. Serve with clear gravy. _ CALF'S EARS AND CHEESE. Prepare six ears, and boil them with i glass of white wine, 1 glass of good stock, salt, pepper, parsley, green onions, garlic, 2 cloves, half a laurel leaf, thyme, basil, and a bit of butter. As soon as they are done take out the ears, and let them drain; make a stuffing with a handful of dried bread-crumbs,