FOW [ 518 ] FOW after it is lifted out boil down the gravy to a jelly, and strain it; let it become cold, clear off the fat, and serve it cut into large dice, or roughed, and laid round the fowl, which is to be served cold. If restored to its form instead of being rolled it must be stewed gently for an hour, and may be sent to table hot, covered with mushroom, or any other good sauce that may be preferred ; or it may be left until the following day, and served garnished with the jelly, which should be firm, very clear, and well flavoured. The liquor in which a calf's foot has been boiled down, added to the broth, will give it the necessary degree of consistency. French cooks add three or four onions to these preparations of fowls. FOWL: To Marinate. Raise the skin from the breast bone, take a veal sweetbread, with oysters, mushrooms, an anchovy, pepper, nutmeg, lemon-peel, and a little thyme; chop them small, and mix them with the yolk of egg; stuff this carefully under the skin without break- ing it, put oysters into the body, paper the breast, and roast it. Garnish with lemon, FOWL BOILED WITH OYSTERS. Take a young fowl, fill the inside with oysters, put it in a jar, plunge the jar into a kettle or sauce- pan of water, and boil it an hour and a half. There will be a quantity of gravy from the juices of the fowl and the oysters in the jar; make it into a white sauce, with the addition of egg, cream, or a little flour and butter; add oysters to it, or serve it up plain with the fowl. The gravy that comes from a fowl dressed in this manner will be a stiff jelly the next day. The fowl will be very white and tender, and of an exceedingly fine flavour-^advantages not attainable in ordinary boiling, while the dish loses nothing of its delicacy and simplicity. FOWL BOILED WITH RICE. Stew a fowl in some well-skimmed clear mutton broth, and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it is ready put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked, and simmer till tender; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire ; keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and the rice round it without the broth. The less liquor the fowl is done in the better. Serve with gravy, or parsley and butter for sauce. FOWL A LA BRAISE. Truss the fowl the same as for boiling, and season the inside with pepper and salt; put at the bottom of a vessel a slice or two of beef, lay over the fowl some thin slices of lean bacon and bits of veal, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot, half a lemon, pepper, and salt. Set these over a slow fire for ten minutes, and put to them about three pints of beef brotb or warm water; warm a glass of Madeira, and pour it in. Stew till the fowl is tender, strain the gravy through a piece of dimity, the rough side upwards, first dipped in cold water, and mix it over the fowl. Oysters are a great addition. FOWL, BROILED. Split the fowl down the back, season it very well with pepper, and put it on the gridiron with the inner part next to the fire, which must be very clear. Hold the gridiron at a considerable distance from the fire, and allow the fowl to remain until it is nearly half done; then turn it, taking great care that it does not burn. Broil it of a fine brown, and serve it up with stewed mushrooms, or a sauce with pickled mushrooms. FOWL, COLD: To Dress. Cut a fowl into quarters, and beat up one or two eggs; grate in a little nutmeg, put in a little sauce, some chopped parsley, and a few bread crumbs; beat them well together, dip the fowl into this mixture, and then fry them of a nice light brown. Prepare a little good gravy, thicken it with flour, and put in a spoonful of catsup ; lay the fried fowl in a dish, and pour the gravy over it. You may garnish with lemon or a few mushrooms. FOWL A LA CRfiME. This dish is made of a cold fowl, either roasted or stewed. Take off the breast and fleshy part of the fowl by cutting it square all through, and with a little bread toasted and dipped in butter stop the aperture; then fill the fowl with Jarc6 a la creme, make a kind of wall round it with buttered paper, and cover the same with bacon to prevent the fowl from getting too much colour. If this dish is to be placed on the flanks of the table in the second course, some of the same fai'ce may be served on toasts cut in the shapes of hearts or lozenges, which are called teinoins. These are to be baked in the oven the same as the fowls, and the fat to be well drained. Serve with a thin sauce Espagnole or veloute. The to astmust be fried before the farce is put over it. FOWL, CROQUETTES OF. Take cold fowl with slices of bam, fat and lean, chop them together very finely, and add half as much stale bread grated, some salt, pepper, nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of made mustard, one of catsup, and a lump of butter; knead all well together till it resembles sausage meat, make it up into cakes or little balls the size of a walnut, dip them in the yolks of eggs beaten, cover them thickly with grated bread, and fry them of a light brown. FOWL, CROUSTADES OF. Cut some crumb of bread into the shape of drops, that is, pointed at one end and rounded at the other; fry them, and lay seven or eight of tbem to