EPI [ ^71 ] END in the centre of a dish ; arrange the celery and asparagus round it with a spoon, and the leaves of endive over that, keeping it hot; pour the liquor into a stewpan; have ready the yolks of a couple of eggs beaten up with some cream; put in a little salt and some grated nutmeg; mix this well with the sauce, and keep it stir- ring one way till it is thick; pour it over the endive, and send it to table. ENDIVE FOR SALADS. In the countiy it is a good plan to accustom your gardener to raise Cos lettuce and curled endive. He should use in the same salad the three Cos lettuces—white, the streaked with rose, and dark-streaked kind. The hearts of the lettuces should be cut lengthwise, and placed in rays at the top, alternating the colours, not heart by heart, but by two or three of each. The curled white endive should be set up above the let- tuces, and should form in the middle a hollow, wherein the flowers should be placed. The flowers that will serve for garnishing, and are not unwholesome, are nasturtium, borage, mallow, marsh-mallow, white endive, bugloss, periwinkle, and mullein, or torchweed. Reject those plants of which you do not know the properties, because there are some injurious, such as wolf's-bane, the rose, bay, &c. The colours of the flowers should be mixed with taste: nasturtium, the round- leaved mallow, the rose-flowered mallow, and borage may be advantageously used together. ENDIVE SOUP. This is a clear soup, made in the same manner as Lettuce Soup. Be careful to wash the endive well, and pick out all the bitter parts. ENDIVE, STEWED. Take a dozen heads of the very best endive; pick off what you think bitter; wash it well, and blanch it whole in plenty of water with a good handful of salt. When done lay them on a sieve to drain, tie each head separately with packthread, lay them between pieces of fat bacon, and stew them gently in good consomme ; take them out of the con- 8omm6, and lay them in a line upon a clean cloth; take off the packthread, and roll the endive up tightly in the cloth a nainute or two ; then open the cloth, cut the endive in pieces about six inches in length, and lay them on a dish; have ready the sauce a VEspagnole, with a bit of butter mixed in it, and a squeeze of lemon. When this sauce is very hot pour it over the endive, and serve it to table. ENDIVE AU VELOUTfi. Take off all the outer leaves of your endive, and, having opened the hearts, put them into cold water to wash them. In the meanwhile heat a kettle of water, put in it a handful of salt, then throw in the endive, and keep it constantly under the water to prevent its turning black. As soon as the endive is tender drain it; then put it into cold water, and when quite cold drain it again ; press the water out with your hands; then chop it small, and put it into a saucepan, with some butter, salt, and pepper ; stir it well, and then add five spoonsful of veloute and the same of consomme ; reduce it till pretty thick, and then put it in a dish with fried bread round it. Endive may also be dressed with cream, in which case put two spoonsful of flour into it, and moisten it with cream. ENDIVE, WHITE. It is eaten in salads, or used for ragouts. For the latter, having picked and washed it, boil it half an hour in water; then change it into cold water, squeeze it well, and stew it with a little butter and cullis if you have any, otherwise thicken the sauce with a little burnt flour and butter. When done season to your taste, skim off the fat, and add a little shallot for those who like the flavour. Serve this ragout under a roasted shoulder, leg, or loin of mutton. ENEMA. See Clyster. ENTREE. There is no word precisely equivalent to this in English. Any dish of butcher's meat, fowl, game, or fish dressed for the first course is called an entree. ENTREMET. There is no word equivalent to this in English. All dishes of vegetables, jellies, pastries, salad, prawns, lobsters, and, in general, everything that appears in the second course except the roast, is called an entremet. EOLIAN HARP. See ^olian Haep. EPIDEMIC, in general, denotes a spreading disorder which, as is supposed, arises from some malaria, and attacks great numbers of people at certain seasons. Mankind have always been more inclined to search for the most distant causes in order to explain physical events, rather than to avail themselves of those which are within their reach. Thus the yellow fever, which in 1793 ravaged the city of Philadelphia, was doubtless generated by the immense quantities of damaged coffee and other putrescible substances exposed in the heat of summer on the muddy banks of the river. In like manner the plague, which formerly destroyed great numbers in London, was not always imported, but probably originated at home, where, in those ages, cleanliness was not so generally attended to as it is at present. Hence this domestic virtue has guarded us against many epidemics to which other less cleanly nations have been subject; but there is still great occasion for improvements, especially in the houses of the narrow courts and alleys of the metropolis. See Contagion. EPILEPSY, Epileptic Fits, or Falling- \ Sickness. This disease comes on suddenly ' without any evident cause, with a sudden loss of sense and violent convulsive motions of the