[ 458 ] EGG EGG sllr till sufficieutly thick. If any scum should arise it need not be taken off, as the boiling and stirring will effectually remove it. Orange- flower water may be added if approved. EGG MINCE PIES. Boil six eggs until they are hard, shred them small, and shred double the quantity of suet; then add 1 lb. of currants picked and washed (if your eggs are large you must use more currants), the peel of one lemon shred very finely, and the juice, six- spoonsful of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very small quantity of salt, orange, lemon, and citron candied. Make a light paste for them. EGG PANADA. Boil a handful of good raisins in a quart of water; toast a slice of bread, and cut it up; beat two eggs with a spoonful of sugar, and mix with the bread. When the raisins are done pour them on the toast and eggs, stirring all the time; season to your taste with wine, nutmeg, and butter. EGG PANE. Three eggs to a quart of meal (no wheat flour, and to be made also with milk, as water would make it heavy), and a spoonful of butter, all well beaten together, and made up of a consistence tliicker than cakes—too thick to pour out, but just thick enough to require to be taken up with a spoon. Tliis may be baked like cakes immediately after being mixed. It must be baked in a tin pan, which should be placed in a Dutch oven, not too hot at first, but the fire under it to be increased. The object is to have it to begin to bake at the bottom, when it will rise in the process of baking, become brown on the top, and, when put on the table and cut, resemble what we call pound cake. " Salt, of course, add as usual to your taste in both cases. EGG PAP. Set a quart of water on a clear fire, make two spoonsful of wheat flour into a batter with the yolks of two or three new-laid eggs well beaten, and a little cold water. When the water is about boiling put in the batter, and keep it stirring till it is ready to boil; then take it off", put in a little salt, poxir the whole into a basin, and let it cool gradually. When eggs are not at hand a piece of butter may be substitiited, and stirred in gently. EGG PIE. Boil a dozen eggs hard, and mince the yolks very finely with their weight in beef suet; put to them gome salt, beaten spice, lemon-peel, rose water, sugar, and ^ lb. of cur- rants. You may also add an apple shred small. Mix all these together, fill j'our dish, and bake it. Serve it to table with a little wine. EGG PLANT (1). The pui-ple-fruited is considered the nicest. Pull the fruit from the plant, parboil it, and cut it in slices about an inch thick ; dip them in a batter, or in a^ pgg well beaten, and then in a pounded crccker, seasoned with a little salt and pepper. Fry them of a nice brown colour. EGG PLANT (Q). Split the fruit of the egg plant in half, parboil it until soft enough to sci'ape out the inside, leaving the shell whole ; take an onion cut up, pepper, salt, parsley, and one egg; sprinkle in a little flour, stew the whole together with a lump of butter in a sauce- pan until thoroughly cooked; then put it in the shells, sprinkle with crumbs of bread, and bake until brown. EGG ROLLS. Boil a quart of new milk with J lb. of butter, the same of lard, and a little salt; beat up two eggs, and pour the boiling milk on them, stirring all the time. When neai'ly cold add a tea-cupful of yeast, and as much wheat flour as will make it into a thick batter. When quite light knead it up as bread, and let it lighten before moulding out; grease the pans, and bake them with a moderate heat. A little sugar and water rubbed on just before baking rolls makes them glossy. EGG SANDWICHES. Take fresh-laid eggs, boil them hard, and put them in cold water till quite cold ; then peel them, and, after taking a little of the white off each end, cut them in slices, and lay them between bread and butter, with a little salt and mustard if approved. EGG SAUCE. Boil three eggs hard, cut them in small squares, and mix them in good butter sauce ; make it very hot, and squeeze iu some lemon juice before you serve it. EGG SNOW AND CUSTARD. Beat the whites of twelve eggs very well with 2 ozs. of sugar and a little orange-flower water, or a few drops of any essence; then two pints of milk with 2 oza. of sugar upon the fire. When it boils lay the frothed white upon the milk, and poach it. When it is done take out a little of the milk, and season what is upon the fire with cinnamon, rose water, or any other seasoning; mix in the yolks as for a custard, stir till it tliickens, dish it, and dress the snow over it. The snow may be made of any colour, or with pulped fruit. EGG SOUP. Beat the yolks of two eggs in your dish, with a piece of butter as large as a hen's egg; take a tea-kettle of boiling water in one hand, and a spoon in the other, and pour in about a quart by degrees ; then keep stirring it all the time till the eggs are well mixed and the butter melted; pour it into a saucepan, and keep stirring it all the time till it begins to simmer; take it off the fire, and pour it between two vessels, out of one into the other, till it is quite smooth and has a great froth; set it on the fire again, keep stirring till it is quite hot, pour it into a soup dish, and send it to table hot. EGG TART. Chop up some sweet herbs.