C 267 ] CHE r HE In making ctieese the milk warm from the cow is first coloured by rubbing down on a stone some annotto, about 1 oz. for each expected 112 lbs. of cheese, and mixing it with the milk. The rennet is then added, about one-third of a pint to fifty gallons of milk. As soon as the milk is curdled the whey is strained off, the curd broken small, put into a vat, and pressed gently for two hours; then turned, pressed again for six or eight hours, again turned, rubbed on both sides with salt, pressed again for twelve or four- teen hours, and finally dried on a board, being turned every day. In large cheeses the sides are pierced with iron skewers, to allow the whey to escape during the pressure, which is very moderate, upon a medium of 1^ cwt. dead weight. Colour is given with annotto root, turmeric, or marigold, but uncoloured cheeses are generally preferred. Cheese is set for curd at 90° to 90°. If too cold the curd is soft, and retains its whey ; if too hot it is hard and tough. One and a half to three Lours are allowed for coagulation after mixing with the rennet. The curd is then worked with the hands and arms for three quarter* of an hour. When freed from the whey it is pierced for two or three hours. It is then put iuto the press, salted, and set to sweat. Somet'mes yolks of eggs are mixed with tlie curd before pressing. Cheshire cheese, famous all over Europe, is made from herds of from 100 to 400 cows in rich pastures, sometimes 2 cwt. or 3 cwt. to a single cheese. The curd is hard if set too warm, and then requires breaking up with the hand, and the green whey got rid of. Gloucestershire has hitherto been the principal seat of this manufacture, but North Wiltshire begins to take the lead. Cheddar cheese is of this kind, and esteemed the choicest sort, but the quantity made is very small. Cheshire Cheese. In general only two meals or milkings are put together, and some- times when milk is scarce three, four, or even five meals. The cold milk being creamed, one- third or half is made scalding hot, and half is then added to the remainder .if the cold milk, which has in the meanwhile been coloured by a piece of annotto tied up in a linen rag, soaked all night in warm water, and then well rubbed nito the milk until the bag has given out all its colour. The other half of the scalded cheese is mixed with the cream, and both the parcels added to the milk warm from the cow. This melting of the cream, as it is called, is thought to be the best method of uniting two or more meals of milk. Cbeam Cheese is made by adding cream to new milk. Of this kind is Stilton cheese. The cream of the night's milk is added to the morn- ing's milk, along with the rennet. The curd is not broken, but put into a sieve to drain, and very gently pressed. When the cheese is suf- ficiently firm it is put into a wooden ring, and kept on a dry board. A thicker sort of this cheese is called Gotten- ham cheese. DuNLOP Cheese, of Scotland, is also made from the evening meal of milk, warmed, mixed with the morning meal, and the rennet added imme- diately. No colouring is used. The whey as it gathers is ladled off, the curd drained, and even pressed with a light weight. It is then cut up by a knife with three or four blades, salted, mixed by the hand, and pressed by a heavy stone of from 10 cwt. to 20 cwt., being frequently taken out and examined. When all the whey is pressed the cheese is taken out, turned, and rubbed frequently with a coarse cloth. The usual size is from 30 lbs. to 60 lbs. in weight. Lincolnshire Cream Cheese, called in Lon- don neiv cheese, is made in the same manner as Cream Cheese. It is pressed with a 2-lb. weight, and sold when only a few days old. York cream cheese is thus made :—The curd, when turned out of the sieve, is cut into a square cake or tile, placed on rushes, covered with them, and pressed with ^ lb. weight. It can only be kept in a cool place, and for a few days. The whey left in the curd becomes acescent, and this acidity is agreeable to some palates. Cheese made from new iitilk mixed with shim milk. The half-covered milk Gloucester cheese is of this sort. It is usually marked with a heart, to distinguish it from the best-covered milk cheese, and is often called Warwickshire cheese. Skimmed Milk Cheese. This cheese is only made in those districts where butter is the chief object of the dairyman, and the milk is used after it has been skimmed, as in Essex and Suffolk. The English cheese of this kind has seldom a good flavour; but, although it is gene- rally nearly as hard as horn, it is much easier of digestion than some of the soft cheeses. The Dutch round cheeses which belong to this class are of fine flavour. CHEESE : To Make. Pour out the milk, as soon as brought warm from the cow, into the cheese tub ; add a sufficient quantity of rennet to turn it, and cover it over with a cloth. This will make what is called one-meal cheese. Let it stand till it is completely turned; then cut the curd with a cheese knife or skimming-disli into uniform pieces. Cover up the tub, and allow it to remain about twenty minutes. The pieces having settled, ladle off the whey gently, gather and press the curd towards the side of the tub, letting the whey pass through the fingers; then break the curd as small as possible, and salt it to taste, either in the proportion of a hand-