CAN C 221 ] CAN may also be occasioned by the long-continued use of food that, is too hard of digestion or of an acrid nature ; by barrenness, celibacy, indo- lence, cold, external injui-ies, friction, pressure, or the like. Women often suffer from the last of these by means of their stays, which squeeze and compress their breasts so as to occasion great mischief. Sometimes the disease is owing to an hereditary disposition. This disorder seems often very trifling at the beginning. A hard tumour, about the size of a hazel-nut, or perhaps smaller, is generally the first symptom. This will often continue for a long time without seeming to increase, or giving the patient great uneasiness ; but if the consti- tution be weakened, or the tumour irritated by pressure or improper treatment of any kind, it begins to extend itself towards the neighbouring parts, by pushing out a kind of roots or limbs. It then gets the name of cancer, from a fancied resemblance between these limbs and the claws of a crab. The colour of the skin begins to change, which is first red, afterwards purple, then bluish, livid, and at last black. The patient complains of heat, with a burning, gnawing, shooting pain. The tumour is very hard, rough, and unequal, with a protuberance, or rising, in the middle. Its size increases daily, and the neighbouring veins become thick, knotty, and of a blackish colour. The skin at length gives way, and a thin shar-p ichor begins to flow, which corrodes the neighbouring parts till it forms a large, unsightly ulcer. More occult cancers arise and communi- cate with the neighbouring glands. The pain and stench become intolerable, the appetite fails, the strength is exhausted by a continual hectic fever. At last a violent discharge of blood from some part of the body, with faintings or con- vulsion fits, generally put an end to the patient's life. The diet ought to be light but nourishing. All strong liquors and high-seasoned or salted provisions are to be avoided. The patient may lake as much exercise as he can easily bear, and should use every method to divert thought and tmuse his fancy. All kinds of external injuiy are carefully to be guarded against, particularly of the affected part, which ought to be defended from all pressure, and even from the external air, by covering it with fur or soft flannel. One misfortune attending the disease is, that the patient often conceals it too long. Were proper means used in due time a cancer might often be prevented; but after the disorder has arrived at a certain height it generally sets all medicine at defiance. When a scirrhous tumour is first discovered the patient ought to observe a proper regimen, and to take twice or thrice a '.veek a dose of the common purging mercurial pill. Some blood may also be let, and the part affected may be gently rubbed twice a day with a little of the mercurial ointment, and kept warm with fur or flannel. The food must be light, and an English pint of the decoction of woods or sarsaparilla may be drank daily. To allay pain and irritation, and, probably, thereby retard the progress of the disease, opium may be given internally, and likewise applied externally, mixed with the different preparations of lead used as sedatives and discutients. Take cerate of superacetate of lead, 1 oz.; opium, in powder, ^ drachm ; mix them for an ointment. Or take a plaster of the oxide of lead, and apply it to the tumour. Much may be done in all incipient scirrhous tumours by repeatedly blister- ing the part, having first had recourse to the frequent applications of leeches, occasional pur- gatives, and a cooling diet. Should the tumour, however, not yield to this treatment, but, on tlie contrary, become larger and harder, it will be proper to extirpate it either by the knife or caustic. Indeed, whenever this can be done with safety the sooner it is done the better. It can answer no purpose to extir- pate a cancer after the constitution is ruined, or the whole mass of humours corrupted by it. This, however, is the common way, which makes the operation so seldom succeed. Scirrhous tumours are often removed with perfect safety, and thereby prevented from degenerating into true cancer, when extirpation is not delayed too long; but after a tumour of this description has ulcerated, thereby assuming the cancerous character, and has afforded an opportunity fox* an absorption of the matter into the system, there is every reason to suppose that a complete cure seldom, if ever, is effected. When the cancer is so situated that it cannot be taken away, or, if the patient will not submit to the operation, such medicines as will mitigate or relieve the most urgent symptoms may be used. Dr. Home says that half a grain of the cori'osive sublimate of mercury, dissolved in a proper quantity of brandy, and taken night and morning, will often be of service in cancers of the face and nose. He likewise recommends an infusion of the solanum, or nightshade, in cancers of the breast. But the medicine most in repute at present for this disease is hemlock. Dr. Stork, physician, at Vienna, strongly re- commended the extract of this plant as very efficacious in cancers of every kind. The doctor says he has administered it in hundreds of cases, and often with manifest advantage. He advises the patient, however, to begin with very small doses, as 2 or 3 grains, and to increase the dose gradually till some good ef?'ect be perceived, and there to rest without further increase. From 2 or 3 grains at first the doctor says he has