BLO BLI [ 12T ] blister it is not necessary to cut away the epi- dermis, or scarf skin, and to cause unnecessary pain and irritation, as a single longituditial in- cision is sufficient to give vent to the collected humour. BHsters sometimes operate on the urinary canal, and produce a painful strangury, or difficulty of malting urine. This effect may be remedied by the internal use of camphor, assisted by diluent and agglutinating emulsions, such as strong decoctions of barley, linseed, solutions of gum arabic, &c.; and to prevent such accidents, the blister itself may be mixed with camphor. If strangury is occasioned it is effectually relieved by an anodyne injection thrown into the rectum, consisting of 4 ozs. or 6 ozs. of thin tepid gruel, with 30 or 40 drops of laudanum. If, on the other hand, they will not draw, the skin ought to be previously rubbed with strong vinegar; or, if their action be too violent, a little of the extract of henbane may be added to the composition. We think it our duty to warn the reader against the rash use of blisters in which the Spanish fly is the principal ingredient. In plethoric persons, or those of a full habit, they increase the circulation of the blood, and ought to be applied only after the necessary evacua- tions have been strictly attended to. In dis- eases of a putrid tendency, such as low fevers and bilious diarrhoeas, they are pernicious, be- cause they stimulate and spread the contagion over the whole frame. Lastly, when the hu- mours are obviously in a state of dissolution, which is evident from the sallow and lifeless complexion of dropsical persons, blisters are not unfrequently productive of incurable morti- fication These fatal effects, however, seldom or never take place from the application of mustard seed or horseradish. The following are some of the best prepara- tions for raising blisters, besides those already particularised :—• Blister, Liquid. Powdered cantharides, 1 oz.; flour of mustard, 1 oz.; oil of turpentine, 4ozs.; olive oil, 4 ozs. Mix all together. It is not very effective until made two or three days. This is rubbed into the place where a blister is wished to be raised. Blisters of Spanish Flies. Powdered cantharides, 1 oz.; lard, 2 ozs.; oil of origanum, 10 drops. Mix thoroughly; spread thinly on a piece of diachylon plaster or of washleather of the appropriate size and shape, and dust a little of the powdered cantharides over the surface. Blister, Tartar Emetic. Mix thoroughly 2 drachms of powdered tartar emetic with 1 oz. of lard. Rub well into the place where the blister is wished to rise. Applied to the chest this has been found very beneficial in hooping- cough, and other disorders of the lungs and their appendages. The eruption thus caused should be kept up for some time by applying more of the ointment. When the pustules, or pimples, thus caused are very painful and inflamed, relief is afforded by applying to them a poultice made of bread and milk. Blister Tissue. White wax, 4 ozs.; ethe- real extract of cantharides, 2 ozs. Melt the wax by a gentle heat, and as soon as liquid mix with it the extract. Spread a very thin coat over oiled silk or waxed paper, and when dry brush over the surface a little tincture of ben- zoin. A piece of this tissue to be applied like a common blister. BLISTERS, MANAGEMENT OF. If a blister is not spread on diachylon plaster, and a margin of the diachylon left bare all round, the blister will require to be kept in its place by strips of adhesive plaster. A blister usually requires to be left on twelve hours, but may be removed as soon as bladders of serum are fully raised. Do not break their skin. The bladders are then to be cut with and opened by sharp- pointed scissors, and the serum pressed out by the aid of an old cambric pocket-handkerchief. A piece of linen dipped in sweet oil is a good covering for the blistered part. This part, sometimes, is very difficult to heal, requiring poulticing and strapping over with basilicon plaster. The attendant symptoms must then be watched. To keep a blister open, or dis- charging, it must have applied to it a little of the liquid blister. For dressing a blister re- quired to heal, a very good ointment is formed as follows:—Olive oil, 2 ozs. ; white wax, 1 oz.; spermaceti, J oz. Melt them together and stir until cold. Spread this on a piece of linen and cover over the blistered part. BLOND : To Clarify for Table. Whip the whites of 4 eggs in a large pipkin, and put the blond to them; set the whole on the fire in a stewpan; continue to whip till nearly boil- ing, when it will have become white; then put it in the stove with fire over and under. When quite clear, strain it through a sieve. BLOND (in Veal Gravy). It is made as follows :—Put a few slices of lean ham into a thick stewpan, and lay over them some slices of lean veal; half cover the meat with jelly stock ; stew it over a brisk fire, taking care it does not burn. When the broth is reduced, thrust a knife into the meat that the gravy may run out, and then stew it more gently till brown, turn- ing the meat frequently. When of a dark red colour, moisten with hot stock; season with shred mushrooms, parsley, and green onions, and when it has boiled an hour, skim and strain it thi'ough a tammy to clarify for use. BLOND LACE. When laid by for any time this should be wrapped in blue paper; for