BAG C 58 ] BAE BACON EASHERS (Relishing). If you have any cold bacon you may make a very nice dish of it by cutting it into slices about J inch thick; grate some crust of bread and powder them well with it on both sides; lay the rashers in a cheese-toaster; they will be browned on one side in about three minutes; turn them and do the other. These are a delicious accompaniment to poached or fried eggs, the bacon having been boiled first is tender and mellow. They are an excellent garnish round veal cutlets, or sweet- breads, or calf's head hash, or green peas, or beans, &c. BACON SLICES. Bacon may be fried, or broiled on a gridiron over a clear fire, or toasted with a fork. Take care to slice it of the same thickness in every part. If you wish it curled, cut it in slices about two inches long (if longer the outside will be done too much before the inside is done enough); roll it up, and put a little wooden skewer through it; put it in a cheese-toaster or Dutch oven for eight or ten minutes, turning it as it gets crisp. This is considered the handsomest way of dressing bacon ; but we like it best uncurled, because it is crisper and more equally done. Slices of bacon should not be more than one-eighth of an inch thick, and will eat much more mellow if soaked in hot water for a quarter of an hour, and then dried in a cloth before they are broiled, &c. BACON SPARERIB usually weighs 8 lbs. or 9 lbs., and will take from two to three hours to roast thoroughly—^not exactly according to weighs, but the thickness of the meat upon it, which varies very much. Lay the thick end nearest to the fire. A proper bald sparerib of 8 lbs. weight (so sailed because almost all the meat is pared oiT), ■with a steady fire, will be done in an hour and a quarter. There is so little meat on a bald sparerib that if you have a large fierce fire it will be burnt before it is warm through. Joint it nicely, and crack the ribs as you do the ribs of lamb. When you put it down to roast dust on some floiu", and baste it with a little butter ; dry a dozen sage leaves, rub them through a hair sieve, and put them into the top of a pepper-box, and about a quarter of an hour before the meat is done, baste it with butter. Dust the pulverised sage or the savoury powder, or sprinkle with duck stuffing. Make it a general rule never to pour gravy over anything that is roasted; by so doing the dredging, &c., is washed off, and it tastes insipid. Some people carve a sparerib by cut- ting out in slices the thick part at the bottom of the bones. When this meat is cut away the bones may be easily separated, and are considered as vely sweet picking. Apple sauce, mashed potatoes, and good mustard, are indis- pensable. BAG, among commercial men, is known to contain a certain quantity of the article named in connection with it. Thus a bag of almonds weighs about 300 lbs.; a bag of aniseed from 300 lbs. to 400 lbs.; of Bengal rice, 1^ cwt; of Patna rice. If cwt.; of Mauritius sugar, 1^ cwt.; of East India sugar, 2 cwt.; of Penang sugar, I cwt. to 1 cwt.; of Madras sugai-. If cwt.; of coffee, li cwt. ; of pepper in two sizes of 1 cwt. and 300 lbs.; of pimento (allspice), 1 cwt.; of African ginger, 1 cwt.; and a bag of shot, 28 lbs., &c. BAG, SCENTED, is made of equal weights of rose leaves, lavender flowers, orris-root powder, coriander seed, cassia, and cloves, all dried and pounded fine. Add a few drops of oil of berga- mot and essence of ambergris, or of any other essential oil preferred. Musk is to be avoided, because offensive to many persons. Put this mixture into a woollen bag, and cover with, any fancy material which taste dictates. BAIN MARIE. Bain marie is a flat vessel containing boiling water, meant to hold other saucepans, either for purposes of cookery or to keep dishes hot. The advantage of preserving the heat of dishes by the bain marie is that no change is effected in the flavour of the ingre- dients. This is much the better way to warm rich soups, &c. BAKER. We merely mention this trades- man for the purpose of showing the profits be makes and the frauds he commits. A baker who gets rid of seventy sacks ol flour per week in the form of bread requires the aid of five journeymen besides his own labour, and a baker who sells less than that quantity requires more journeymen in proportion. If he bakes only five sacks weekly he has to employ one man. From a sack of flour weighing 280 lbs. can be made on. an average eighty-two four- pound loaves. For what is called household bread only the less finely-bolted floui', called seconds, is used. The best flour, called Jine whites, is only employed for French bread, rolls, and white biscuits. The best bread is made from flour called households. The baker gets his yeast from the brewers at so much per gallon ; but many bakers use a chemical preparation. They use alum to whiten the bread, and pota-