[ 27 ] APO APO of all the senses, externally and internally, and a loss of all voluntary motion, at the same time that the heart and lungs continue to perform their functions. Apoplexy makes its attack principally at an advanced period of life, and most usually on those of a corpulent habit, with a short neck and large head, and on those who lead an in- active life, make use of full diet, or drink to excess. Although young subjects are not ex- empted from this disease, it is with them but rare, compared with persons advanced in years. It is divided into two species, viz., the sanguine- ous and the serous. When the disease arises in consequence of an accumulation of blood in the vessels of the head, or by an effusion of blood from the red vessels, it is called the sanguin- eous ; and when occasioned by the production of serum, it is called the serous apoplexy. The first is preceded sometimes by giddiness, dimness of sight, drowsiness, loss of memory, and a faultering of the tongue in speaking; but more usually it happens that the person falls down suddenly, the face becomes red and is puffed up; the veins of the head, particularly of the eyes, temples, and neck, seem swollen; the head feels hot, the eyelids are half open and stiff, the eyes prominent and fixed, the breathing difficult and noisy, and the pulse, for the most part, is strong, regular, and generally less frequent than in the natural state. In some instances, slight convulsive motions, with grinding of the teeth, are observed, &c. The second, or serous apoplexy, is generally gradual in its attacks ; the face is pale and tumid, respiration is impeded and noisy, the extremities cold and flaccid, the veins are de- pressed, the pulse weak, irregular, and inter- mittent. These appearances are sometimes preceded by swimming in the head, torpor, impediment of speech, loss of memory, &c. The sanguineous apoplexy is to be treated by bleeding largely and frequently from the jugular vein and temporal artery, applying leeches and cupping-glasses, blisters to the back,- afterwards to the head, and then to the extremities : strong purgatives and clysters. Take wine of aloes, ^ oz., tincture of jalap, 2 drachms, infusion of senna, 1 oz. Mix for a strong purging draught. Or, wine of aloes, 3 drachms, pure water, 1 oz. For a clyster, take compound extract of colo- cynth (bitter apple), 1 scruple; hot water, 10 ozs.; syrup of buckthorn, 1 oz., to be thrown up immediately. Or, for the same purpose, take common turpentine, i oz., beat up with the yolk of an egg; add gradually linseed tea, 10 ozs. To promote perspiration, give the following powder every four hours, in some strong gruel. Take antimonial powder, 5 grains, lump sugar, 4 grains, calomel, 1 grain. In most cases of sanguineous apoplexy, the patient cannot swallow during the fit of this disease. Great care is then required in giving medicine by the mouth, lest anything get down the wrong passage and suffocate the patient. When, therefore, this is likely to happen, the attempts should be given up, and external means trusted to. If the apoplectic fit has taken place soon after a full meal, or in consequence of intoxi- cation, an emetic should be given, provided blood-letting has been effected. The patient should be kept in an erect position, &c. When these plans fail, the stimulants recom- mended for the serous apoplexy and for palsy may be adopted. In the serous apoplexy, blood-letting is dis- pensed with. Emetics of ipecacuanha or tar- tarised antimony, or the following common emetic draught, may be given. Take sulphate of zinc, (white viti'iol) 1 drachm; pure water, 10 drachms ; syrup, 2 tea-spoonsful; after which apply blisters to the head, mustard plasters to the extremities, strong purges, as directed in the sanguineous apoplexy, with diffusive stimulants of ammonia, castor, asafoetida, and valerian. For example, take aromatic spirit of ammonia, 3 drachms; camphorated mixture, 5 ozs.; the acetated liquor of ammonia, H oz.; syrup of orange-peel, of which give the patient three table-spoonsful every two hours. Or, take tinc- ture of ammoniated valerian, and spirit of nitric ether, of each 3 drachms; peppermint water, 4 ozs ; syrup of orange-peel, i oz. To be given as above. People of a full and plethoric state of body, who are predisposed thereby to an attack of apoplexy, will act wisely by confining them- selves to a very abstemious mode of living, carefully abstaining from strong liquors, high- seasoned food, and meat suppers, as well as to a limited use of spirits of every kind, &c. APOTHECARIES' IMPLEMENTS, MEA- SURES, AND WEIGHTS. The following articles for domestic use are necessary to the proper dispensing of medicines, requiring accu- rate preparation, measuring, weighing, &c. A spatula for mixing ointment, making pills, &c. A tile, on which the preceding articles may be made or divided. A glass funnel. A clyster- pipe and bag. A graduated glass for measuring fluids, which has a scale from ^ drachm up- wards to 2 ozs. or more. The first line marks i drachm, the second 1 drachm, the third 2 drachms, the fourth 3 drachms, the fifth 4 drachms (or i oz.), and so on. As these mea- sures, as well as the weights, are marked with their proper characters, it will be proper to