APP C 30 J APP tion being lessened, the clothing by day, and the covering by night, should be gradually in- creased ; for many of the diseases of advanced life are produced or exasperated by obstructed perspiration. Climate and season of the year ought cer- tainly to have clothing suited to them ; but in our unsteady climate it is very difficult to ac- commodate them to the sudden changes. Upon the whole, however, after the age of thirty-five, it may be better to exceed rather than be deficient in clothing. Habit or custom always merits great attention. If persons have been accus- tomed to warm clothing, there will always be hazard in sudden changes of every kind. Those who clothe and sleep warmly ought not to in- dulge in hot, close rooms during the day, or have fires in their bed-chambers. Those who have resided long in hot climates, when they 3ome into this country, should rather exceed in their clothing. With respect to the state of health. To per- sons of hale constitutions and in high health, very warm clothing in the day or covering at night would be highly improper, because their vital powers being strong, and the circulation vigorous, the warmth and steady perspiration on the surface and extremities resist the im- pressions of cold and moisture, unless they are very violent. Such persons, however, relying too much on the strength of their constitutions often expose themselves imprudently; and as the violence of their disease is in general in proportion to the vigour of their vital powers, so they are fre- quently rapid in their progress and fatal in their termination. The grand rule is, so to regulate our clothing and covei'ing, that when we expose ourselves to the external air, the difference of the temperature of the air in both situations may be such that we shall not be susceptible of dangerous impressions under any inclemency of season when we go abroad. Persons in firm health ought, therefore, so to regulate the temperature within-doors, that it shall not exceed 56° of the thermometer in winter, spring, and autumn; and in the sum- mer, bring it as near that as possible by the admission of fresh air. Were it happily at our option to obtain all the requisites for forming a fine constitution, no man of common sense would spare any pains to acquire them ; but this is not always in our power. A weakness of constitution is often hereditaiy; or it may result from diseases either unavoidable, or the efi'ects of negligence or in- attention. Under such circumstances we must be content to accommodate ourselves to our situation, and prudently avoid all such extremes as may impair health. Persons of delicate and irritable constitutions, whose powers are weak and circulation languid and unsteady, are apt to have the perspiration checked by very slight causes. This also happens to invalids, whose complaints are thereby much exasperated. Until the constitution, therefore, has been strengthened, and, as it were, hardened by being gradually habituated to air and exer- cise, they ought rather to exceed than be de- ficient in the quantity of clothing. With respect to clothing, such addition ought to be made to it in cold and damp weather as to protect the body against the sudden and severe impressions of either. Invalids should have clothing accommodated to different seasons and changes of weather, and ought rather to exceed than be deficient in their warmth—those par- ticularly who are subject to coughs, those whose nerves are weak and irritable, and those who are gouty and rheumatic. Such persons ought in the beginning of Sep- tember to wear a flannel waistcoat over the shirt' or shift, and, provided their skin is not irritable or liable to eruption, towards the end of October the flannel may be worn next the body; taking care to defend the lower limbs by flannel drawers and woollen stockings. Such persons as wear flannel next the body are apprehensive of changing this part of their clothing lest they should catch cold, and there- fore many continue to wear the same garment through the winter, and, as warm weather comes on, cut it away by degrees. But this precaution is not only unnecessary, but to persons of deli- cacy must be offensive, and, indeed, injurious; as thereby a part of the perspirable matter ac- cumulated for months is retained in constant contact with the surface of the body. We can, however, own from long experience, that the under-waistcoat may be safely changed once or twice a week ; and as the weather becomes more mild it may be worn over the linen, and at length totally left ofl" till the subsequent autumn. There is no part of our domestic economy wherein thrift can be practised with better success, provided the matter is well understood, than in what relates to wearing apparel, an article which forms so considerable an item in our yearly expenditure. By the exercise of care and judgment many persons are enabled to maintain a respectable appearance at less than half the cost of others, who, for want of these attributes, are always slovenly. It is our purpose to throw out a few hints on this subject, which those disposed to follow may profit by adopting. First, as to the purchase of clothes: we by all means recommend our friends to deal with respectable tradesmen, to eschew all ticketed goods, which have only the semblance of cheap-