[ 189 ] BUT BUT of E. hulbosus applied to the nostrils causes sneezing, and a portion of the root has been found to act beneficially on the gum of an aching tooth. Haller informs us that the Swiss hunters chew B. alpestris as a restorative after fatigue, and as an antidote to giddiness ; and Withering states that in the case of poison having been taken, R.flammula, which produces instantaneous vomiting, is preferable to any medicine. With the juice of B. thora the Swiss hunters were wont formerly to poison their darts, by means of which the wounds inflicted on wild beasts were speedily fatal and incurable. The dis- tilled water of B. sceleratus is eminently acrid, and, when cold, deposits crystals, which have been found to be utterly insoluble, and of an inflammable nature; yet, notwithstanding its poisonous properties, it is eaten when cooked by the shepherds of Wallachia. BUTTERMILK is an excellent food for weak stomachs and children, yet it is generally given to the pigs. Fresh buttermilk, eaten with sugar and bread, is more agreeable than fresh cream, as it does not cloy; but it is not good with fruit; because, unless the stomach is extremely strong, it will turn immediately into a strong acid. Sometimes, however, a consump- tive patient's stomach is very strong, or rather requiring that sort of nourishment, yet it will not be so beneficial as if eaten separately in small quantities, this ailment requiring a con- stant feeding. If these milks are much sweetened with syrup, or capillaire, the patient will, in that case, be able to take more sugar, which is so renovating. Milk in every simple form cannot be too highly recommended as food for infancy, childhood, invalids, and old age. BUTTERMILK PUDDING. Having warmed 3 quarts of new milk, turn it with 1 quart of buttermilk. Drain the curd through a sieve, and when dry pound it in a marble mortar, with about ^ lb. of loaf sugar, 1 lemon boiled tender, the crumb of a grated roll, also a grated nutmeg, 6 bitter almonds, 4 ozs. of warm butter, 1 tea- cupful of cream, the yolks of 5 and the whites of 3 eggs, 1 glass of wine, and another of brandy. Bake in small cups or basins well buttered, and if the bottom is not browned use a salamander. Serve them hot and with pudding-saiice. BUTTONS AND BUTTON-HOLES. But- tons upon shirts, and upon all other articles of wearing-apparel, should be put on with' great firmness and security, as it is no slight annoy- ance if, on putting on a fresh garment, one or more buttons should be found wanting. For the Bake of sti-ength, as well as of neatness, great care should be taken with the cutting and over- casting of button-holes. V/hen going to make a button-hole, fold the material in which it is to be made, to see that it is periectly even; then turn in the raw edges all round, double it, and tack it together slightly; cut it exactly to a thread, and its length must be proportioned to the size of the button which it is intended to receive. If you should have a row of button-holes to make, as in a waistcoat, for instance, when they would require to be all exactly even, then have a pair of those scissors which are made for the purpose; it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to cut several button-holes exactly even, regular, and alike, with common scissors. After you have cut the hole, hold it straight along the fore-finger of the left hand, and, confining it in that position by the thumb and middle finger, begin on the side farthest from the point of the finger, and work it from left to right, that is, from the thumb to the point of the finger ; put your needle in at the back, and bring it out in front, four or five threads below the edge. To make the stitch for forming the head of the button-hole, make the stitch by putting the needle through the loop of the thread before it is drawn close, keeping the hand upwards, so that the loop may lie along the edge of the button-hole. The needle must always be put in at the back, and never at the front of the loop. Leave between the stitches one thread. When the stitches are as near the end as pos- sible, take two stitches, as in common sewing, across to the other side, and then work two looped stitches at the end, and in the same direction as that in which the button-hole is cut. It is called barring. As the chief faults in a button-hole are its gaping and tearing at the corners, those faults are guarded against by this mode of working the ends, which require particular firmness and strength. Instead of barring, the button-hole may be worked completely round. The first side of the button-hole having been worked, work the other side in the same manner. For the following notes on the various kinds of buttons we are indebted to that excellent little book "The World in its Workshops :"— The fabrication of the gilt button preceded that of the covered, or Florentine, as it is technically called, and required a considerable amount of ingenuity to keep pace with the adaptation of tastes, which the caprices of fashion are ever and anon in the process of generating; but a greater amount of ingenuity was evoked when the covered button came into general use, as the old method of covering bone moulds by the hand with a needle and thread was superseded by the use of dies and the screw-press. The latter process not only effected a complete change in the manufacture of covered buttons, but it ma- terially enlarged its power, both in the variety and the extent of its productions. The first patent taken out for making covered buttons by dies and pressure-stands was in the name of Mr. B. Sanders, who removed from Birmingham to