CLO CLO r. ] Tn the case of a fancy trimraing tlie straight edge of the velvet is run on the edge of the cloak, and the scallops or Vandykes are tacked down from the lined side. The making of such a trimming is not difficult to a good eye and exact hand. The velvet must be cut out by a paper pattern, either the straight way or on the bias, as may suit. It is lined with leno or stiff muslin, and the edges either corded and felled down upon the lining, or herring-boned without any cord. You must take care that your paper pattern is an exact one—that it may be trusted for the points or scallops being all alike; for any irregularity in a trimming of that kind makes it more of a disfigurement than an ornament. A silk trimming of the same material as the cloak will be managed in much the same way. The arm-holes (almost universal in cloaks) have to be finished next. If you can so arrange your breadths as to have the arm-holes come in the seam it will be better than making a slit in the middle of a breadth. Whether you can do this will depend on the size of the cloak, and on the width of the material it is made of; but do not, for this object, make the arm-holes too far back, so as to encumber the wearer with too much fulness in front, or to make the cloak twist on the shoulders. It is better to make a slit in a breadth than to do this. The right place for the arm-hole of a grown person's cloak is about sixteen inches from the front edge, and five or six inches below the shoulder-piece. The arm-hole itself should be about seven "inches long. Its edges will be either corded or covered by a fold called an arm-piece. The largest parts of the cloak are now ready, but the most important remain to be done. The most important part of a cloak is the shoulder-piece, since upon this depends the comfort of the wearer. Some cloaks drag back- wards, so as to threaten to choke the wearer; others putl forwards, and gall the back of the neck; and in either case the weight of the cloak feels very oppressive. These discomforts are owing to a defective make about the neck and shoulders. When, on the other hand, the shoulder-piece is formed from a pattern cut from the figure, and the fulness of the cloak is properly disposed round it, no garment can be more delightful to wear. Its weight is not felt, and it wraps round the figure, warm and easy, without any pressure being felt in any part. This shoulder-piece is a useful French inven- tion. Before it was known the entire fulness of a cloak was set into the collar, looking very clumsy on the shoulders. Now, by means of this piece, the garment lies flatly and gracefully on the upper part of the figure, while the weight is supported by the shoulders, instead of drag- ging from the neck. This piece is lined, and sometimes wadded, and edged with a cording. If a cloak is to have no cape it is usual to finish the neck and back with more care than if they were to be concealed. Sometimes the shoulder-piece is embroidered, or edged with a fringe. Sometimes the back is plaited from the shoulder-piece to the waist, where the plaits are secured by a band or strap six or eight inches long. A string is fastened to this band inside the cloak, and is tied round the waist, to give the garment somewhat of the bend of the figure. The collar of a cloak should be cut out with the same regard to the ease of the wearer as the shoulder-piece. This done, the stiS'ening, lining, and trimming are done in the common modes. Any other parts which it may be the fashion of the day to add to the cloak may be learned when wanted. The fancy is sometimes for capes or mantelets, sometimes for hanging sleeves. It is well to know how to make these things while the fashion for them prevails ; but there can never be a time when it \vill not be useful to you to be perfect in all the essential parts of a cloak. CLOTH, WOOLLEN. In selecting this pre- fer that which is soft and flexible ; tbat which is stiff and glossy is inferior, and will soon lose its bright appearance. See Appakel. CLOTHES BALL. &e Balls. CLOTHES LINES are best when made of horsehair or cocoa-nut fibre. If the lines are long, and it is desirable to keep them from being swayed much by the wind, it is a good plan to have cross lines, ty- ing the parallel long ones to each other thus: ' "~~ CLOTHING. See Apparel, CLOVE CAKES. Beat 6 eggs with 2 spoonsful of rose water, ^oz. of cloves or cin- namon, I lb. of sugar, and 1 lb. of sifted flour ; make it into a paste, roll it in thin cakes, and bake it on white paper. CLOVE CORDIAL. For 3 gallons take 2 of rectified malt spirits, \ lb. of clove pepper, 2 pennyweights of the oil of cloves, 1 pint of elder juice, lb. of loaf sugar, and fill up with water. To colour it put some archil in a bag, and press it into the spirit till it becomes a deep red, and let it fine of itself. If you choose it white leave out the elder juice and archil, and fine it in the same way as peppermint. CLOVE GILLYFLOWERS. Gather the flowers early in the morning, pick them clean, and cut the white from the red. To 1 quart of flowers put 2 quarts of spring water; let it stand for two days in a cold place, and, after boiling it till it comes to a quart, strain it off", put in i lb.