BOI [ 133 ] BOI Ligli a degree of heat will render all boiled flesh hard or tough. It is indispensable, also, tliat the water should entirely cover the meat; con- sequently the dimensions of the pot should be suited to the bulk of the joint. Other evil consequences arise from boiling too violently, as by the force of the steam the cover of the pot is constantly lifted up, and with the escape of steam thus liberated the more volatile and savory particles of the meat escape also, and the meat is thereby deprived of its flavour, and rendered less nutritious. Tbis constant open- ing and shutting of the lid, moreover, renders the pot liable to the admission of smoke, and sometimes even of soot, which taints the meat and broth beyond endurance. Large joints, as rumps and rounds of beef, ham, &c., where there is suitable convenience, are best boiled in a copper, as it is less difficult to regulate the heat of a copper fire than of a kitchen range. A discreet cook will be known by her economy in the management of the fire. The waste of fuel is an evil of magnitude proportioned to the means of every householder, it being an article of great expense in most parts of the kingdom. Meat before boiling or roasting should be washed, and it is improved by soaking. For roasting and baking, liowever, before it is put on the spit or in i,he oven, it should be wiped and dried. It is impossible to complete the operation of boiling without due care in skim- ming the pot. The instant the water approaches boiling heat the scum which rises to the surface must be cleared off; and in this early state of the process, from the operation of the heat disengaging the coagulated matter which thus floats, the skimming must be patiently followed up, or the scum will attach itself to the meat and thereby spoil its appearance. The cook must not neglect to skim duting the whole process, though the scum rises less frequently the longer it boils. By strict attention to this important part of the process of boiling, the custom of wrapping meat in a cloth may be dispensed with. Indeed, the only reason assigned for this is, to preserve its appearance ; whilst, if the pot be carefully skimmed, the meat will be cooked clean and pure, and come out of the vessel in which it was boiled still more delicate, white, and firm, than when so wrapped up. The flavour, too, is improved by the absence of the cloth. The learned in the art of boiling recom- mend different periods for the completion of the process ; some allowing fifteen minutes to each pound, others twenty, and some even more. All the best authorities, however, as Dr. Kitchener, Mr. Accum, Mrs. Rundell, and -others, agree in this, that the longer the boiling the more perfect the operation. The French cook may claim the honour of a scientific stew, but the English cook stands unrivalled in the whole world for a delicate boil. It is of consequence, as before said, to suit the cooking vessel to the joint, for there should be no space for superfluous water, the suffi- cient allowance being about a pint of water to a pound of meat. It is sufficient that the joint be entirely covered, as the richness of tlie juices is best preserved in proportion to the least quantity of water. The liquor, indeed, thus becomes broth, and .should be consequently preserved for that useful purpose, as by thus slowly boiling or sim.mering, it imbibes no incon- siderable portion of savory nutriment. As the water wastes whilst boiling by evaporation the pot should be replenished, for the water must con- stantly cover the meat. A little cold water, too, accelei'ates the rising of the scum to the surface. When taken from the pot the meat must be carefully wiped. Some use a clean cloth for this purpose, but a sponge, jireviously dipped in hot water and wrung dry as often as needed, is more convenient. Be careful not to let the meat stand, but send it to table with all con- venient speed, or it will darken in complexion and become hard. Boiled meat, as well as roasted, cannot be served too hot. Particular care should be paid to the culinary vessels, that they are kept constantly clean and thoi'oughly tinned, otherwise they will both give an unpleasant look to what is cooked and render it unwholesome. The kettle in which a joint is dressed must be of such dimensions as to allow room for a sufficient supply of water to dilute the grosser particles of the meat. A steady fire nuist be kept up that the boiling may continue in an equable state ; for, should it slacken, the meat will become sodden and tough. All meat should be weighed before it is put into the pot; but the time of boiling must be regulated accord- ing to the size and quality of the article, care being required to watch the progress; for, if the copper or pot boils too quickly or too slowly, the meat will be over or underdone. Fresh killed meat takes longer time than that which has been kept for some days, and longer in cold than in warm weather. The old limit of a quarter of an hour to a pound seems too little, at least, for those who wish to have their food thoroughly done ; and, therefore, twenty minutes may be safely adopted as a general rule, reckoning from the moment when the boiling commences. It is a sure and tried result, that the slower the meat boils the better it will eat. A moist heat does not dress meat so fast as a dry heat, and, therefore, a longer time, reckon- ing from the first putting the joint into the pot, is necessary for boiling than roasting. A trivet or fish drainer put into the boiler,