ELD ELD L 465 ] of elder-buds very well with 2 Iba. of palm oil, and let it stand two days ; then simmer it on the fire, and strain it. When applied to a burn or scald spread it on soft linen cloth, and renew it twice a day. ELDER PASTE. This is an excellent con- fection for the sick room, besides being a paste of very agreeable flavour. Put a quantity of ripe elderberries into a stone jar, place the jar in a pan of boiling water, and let them boil until they are sufficiently soft to be pulped through a sieve. There is very little pulp, but a great deal of juice. Put both into a pan, and boil them until they begin to thicken. When of the consistency of thick oil stir in 1 lb. of sifted sugar to every pint of reduced pulp ; stir it well, and boil the whole mass till it is reduced to a paste ; put it into pots, and keep it in the same manner as currant jelly. ELDER ROB. When the elderberries are quite ripe pick them clean, put them in a jar, and bake them in a slow oven nearly two hours; then squeeze out the juice through a coarse cloth, boil it over a slow fire till it is very thick, and keep it stirring. Three quarts should be re- duced to one. Put it into pots, set them in the sun for two or three days, and paper them as usual. This, as well as ihe black currant rob, is an excellent thing for a hoarseness or sore throat. ELDER SYRUP. Pick the berries from the stalks, and put them in an earthen pot, with half a pint of water to each quart of berries; cover them, and set tliem in the oven till they are sufficiently stewed to extract the juice from them. To every pint of syrup add 1 lb. of brown sugar and a little bruised ginger; boil half an hour, and when cold bottle it, cork it up closely, and keep it in a cool place. When to be taken warm at bedtime, as in cases of cold or sore throat, boil a little grated nutmeg or lemon-peel in water a few minutes, and then add one-third part of the syrup to two-thirds of water, and a little lemon juice. Blackberry syrup may be prepared in the same way. ELDER VINEGAR. Choose the elder- flowers when just blown, take away all the stalks, and when the flowers are about half dry put them into a jar, fill the jar with vinegar, close it tightly, and let it stand in the sun for twenty days ; then draw it off, press the flowers, and, having filtered the whole, bottle it. Take care to keep the bottles closely corked. ELDER WINE (1). Pour a gallon of boiling ■water on evei-y gallon of elderberries, and let it stand twelve hours ; then draw it off, and boil it up with 3^ lbs. of sugar. When boiling beat up some whites of eggs, and clarify it; skim it clear, add } oz. of pounded ginger to every gallon of wine, and boil it a little longer before you put it in the tuD. When cool put in a toast rnbbed in yeast, and let it ferment a day or two, after which put it into a barrel previously rinsed with brandy. All wines should be milkwarm when the yeast is added to it. ELDER WINE (-2). To 3 lbs. of elderberries put 1 lb. of damsons, and to a nine-gallon cask put a pint of sloes. Boil two gallons of water with 1 oz. of hops for an hour and a half, then put in sugar in the proportion of 4 lbs. to five quarts of water, keep skimming it as it rises, and then set it to cool. Boil the fruit for half an hour, strain the juice, and put a quart of it to every gallon of water; then let it work with yeast three days, put it into the barrel, and stop it closely. The quantity of spice to be regulated by the taste, as may also be the sugar. When the wine has stood four or six weeks add to the above 4 lbs. of stoned raisins. ELDER WINE (very Fine). Boil twenty gallons of water, and when cold add 20 lbs. of raisins cut or chopped small; let them work together ten days, stirring them twice each day; strain the liquor through a flannel bag, then add six quarts of elder juice and a little juice of sloes ; put the whole into a cask, adding 7 lbs. of moist sugar and J oz. of isinglass dis- solved in a little of the liquor, with two pints of brandy; let it stand three or four months, when it raav, if fine, be bottled. ELDER-BUDS, PICKLED. The elder- buds should be gathered when they are about the size of hop-buds; put them into a strong brine of salt and water for nine days, and stir them two or three times a day ; put them into a pan, cover them with vine leaves, and pour over them the water they came out of; set them over a slow fire till they become quite green, and then make a pickle for them of alegar, a little mace, a few shallots, and some ginger sliced ; boil this two or three minutes, and pour it upon the buds ; then tie them down, and keep them in a very dry place. ELDER-FLOWER FRITTERS. They are made whilst the elder-flowers are in bloom, and they should marinate three or four hours in brandy, sugar, orange-flower water, and lemon- peel. When drained dip them in good thick batter to fry, and serve with rasped sugar as in general. ELDER-FLOWER WINE. Put 10lbs. of loaf sugar to four gallons of water, and boil it till a sixth part is wasted away. While it is boiling skim it well, then set it by till it is as cool as wort, put in a spoonful or two of yeast, and as soon as it begins to work put in about a pint and a half of blossoms of elder picked from the stalks ; stir it daily until it has done working, which will be in about a week ; then put it in a cask, stop it closely, let it stand two or three months, and if it is clear bottle it off. 2 u