DYS DYS [ 445 ] one part indigo, two of copperas, and two of lime with water. Green. Cloth dyed blue and well washed is imbrued with aluminous acetate, dried, and sub- jected to tlie quercitron bath. In the above cases the cloth, after receiving the mordant paste, is dried, and put through a mixture of covvdung and warm water. It is then put into the dyeing vat. FuGiTiVK Colours. All these colours are given by making decoctions of the different colouring woods, and receive the slight degree of fixity they possess, as well as great brilliancy, in consequence of their combination or admix- ture with the nitro-muriate of tin. Red is frequently made from Brazil and peach wood. Black. A strong extract of galls and deuto- nitrate of iron. Pwple. Extract of logwood end the deuto- nitrate. Yellow. Exti'act of quercitron bark or French berries, and the tin solution. Blue. Prussian blue and solution of tin. Fugitive coloxirs are thickened with gum tra- gacanth, which leaves the cloth in a softer state than gum Senegal, the goods being frequently sent to market without being washed. DYSENTERY. This disease, vulgarly called the flux, is an inflammation of the membrane lining the intestines. It is attended with frequent stools, severe griping pains, fre- quent desire of stools, which are small in quantity and not of the natural kind, consisting principally of slimy matter, and not unfrequently streaked with blood. When the natural evacua- tions do make their appearance they usually come away in small, compact, hard bodies. It occurs chiefly in autumn, and is often occasioned by moist or cold weather suddenly succeeding intense heat or great drought, which checks the perspii'ation, and determines it towards the in- testines. It is also occasioned by eating unwholesome and putrid food, and by noxious exhalations of vapours; but when it prevails epidemically it may be attributed to a particular disposition of the atmosphere. It also occurs about the same time with the intermittent and remittent fevers of autumn, and is frequently combined with typhus fever, &c. This disease may be distinguished from diarrhcea or looseness by the absence in the latter of fever and frequent desire of going to stool, as well as by the other symptoms already enumerated. In the treatment of this complaint it is usual to begin with a gentle emetic of ipecacuanha in the evening, administering the next morning castor oil, or some saline purgative, which should be repeated every second or third day, .for the purpose of procuring a discharge of the natural motions :—Take castor oil, 1 oz. Or, Epsom salts, 1 oz.; manna, | oz.; hot water ^ and mint water, of each 2^ ozs.; tincture of rhubarb, 2 drachms; of which four table- spoonsful may be taken occasionally. Should these not prove sufficient to procure the natural stools in a sufficient degree stronger purgatives must then be employed. Small doses of some diaphoretic medicine, such as three grains of the compound powder of ipecacuanha made into a pill with some aromatic confection, may be taken every five hours, to determine the circulation from the intestines to the surface of the body after proper evacuations, so as to produce and keep up a gentle perspira- tion. If the disease be accompanied with violent retching and vomiting a gentle emetic may be given in such cases. The contents of the stomach may be discharged by the mild stimulus of a decoction or infusion of camomile flowers, giving, afterwards small doses of opium ; and when the pains are griping and severe, flannels wrung out of the same, to which, for this purpose, poppy heads have been added, and applied as hot as the patient can endure them over the parts, may afford relief; but should these not produce the desired effect it will be advisable to apply a blister. In the acute stage of dysentery the patient may be relieved by a warm bath of moderate temperature. On his being taken out of the bath the abdomen should be rubbed witli some warm stimulating liniment:—Take opo- deldoc, 2 ozs.; tincture of opium, J oz.; oil of rosemary, 1 drachm. Mix, and use for an em- brocation. The patient should drink plentifully of muci- laginous solutions, such as those of gum arabic, barley water, rice, arrowroot, &c.; clysters, also, of a similar nature should be given, to which from thirty to sixty drops of the tincture of opium may be occasionally added. All straining at stool should be avoided; nor should the morbid calls of nature, namely, the vain attempts to go to stool in this disease, be always attended to, for if these be always complied with the straining which ensues will prove highly injurious. If the fundament becomes inflamed or excoriated the parts should be anointed with pomatum or hogs' lard after each evacuation. At the commencement of the disease neither opiates nor astringent medicines should be em- ployed ; but in the second stage, when the patient is exhausted by the severity of the symptoms and their frequent return, they will be of service, ob- serving from time to time, and during their use, to evacuate the contents of the bowels by giving a few grains of rliubarb. The following may then betakenat bedtime, viz., from 1 to 2 grains of opium, with 2 grains of antimonial powder, made into a pill. The next day take extract