CHE [ 272 J CHE is boiled enougli put to it 4 yolks of eggs, i lb. of grated Gruyere or Parmesan cbeese; and lastly, 4 wbites of eggs whipped to a snow. Stir the whole well together. Next pour the pap into a mould, and place it over a mould covered with a lid, and fire on top. It will be done enough in ten minutes, when it should be thickly served and eaten. CHEESE, FRESH. Take 2 quarts of raw cream, and sweeten it with sugar. Boil it, then put in some damask rose water; keep it stirring that it may not burn. When it is thickened and turned take it off the fire; wash the strainer and cheese vat with rose water; roll your curd back- wards and forwards in the strainer to drain the whey from it; then put the curd, with a spoon, into the vat. As soon as it is cold slip it into the cheese dish with some of the whey, and serve it up. CHEESE, FRIED. Cut it in slices, with double the quantity of sliced apples the same size; powder them with sugar; dip the cheese in a mixture of egg, butter, salt, and mustard ; put a slice between two slices of apples, dip them into egg, fry, and serve very hot. Cheese is excellent in plum batter. It is generally served in Cheshire with plum-pie or tarts. CHEESE FRITTERS. Put some milk, butter, and mild cheese into a saucepan. Add to these ingredients flour, and afterwards eggs and sugar. Make all into a paste, of which form your fritters. Fry them of a nice colour, and serve them sprinkled with sugar. A small quantity of orange flowers may be added. CHEESE, ICED (as Butter). Boil for a few minutes 1 pint of cream with some rasped lemon-peel and 1 good spoonful of orange-flower water. When taken off the fire add 12 yolks of eggs well beat up, and mix together without boil- ing. Sift through a sieve, and put into an icing- pot to freeze, working it the same as ices. It must be iced in such a manner that you may take it with a spoon to serve, like pats of butter stamped, and bits of clear ice between to look like crystals. CHEESE, ICED, A LACHANTILLY. It is prepared the same as Cream Cheese, Iced, and put to ice in moulds. Beat up 1 pint of cream to a froth, add rasped lemon-peel, 1 lb. of pounded sugar, and 1 spoonful of orange-flower water. Serve the froth upon the cheese, raised as high as possible. You may, if you choose, ice the fi-oth a little. - CHEESE, ICED, AND MARMALADE. They are made in the same manner as Cream Cheese, Iced, when the cream and eggs are well mixed, and a sufficient quantity of what marma- lade you please, to give it the proper taste of the fruit desired. CHEESE, ITALIAN. Take 1 pint of cream and 1 tea-cupful of sherbet. Sweeten it to the taste; whisk it up, and put it into a hair sieve, with a piece of muslin over, to drain till next day. Turn it out into a dish; strew it over with candied lemon shred fine, or almonds blanched and split. CHEESE, LEMON. Take 1 quart of cream and i pint of sherbet; grate into it the rinds of 2 lemons; add the juice of 3 lemons strained, and sugar to the taste. Whisk it twenty minutes, then lay a thin cloth in a sieve, and pour it in. The next day turn it carefully out of the cloth, and garnish with candied or preserved orange sliced thin, or nonpariel comfits. The above quantity makes a large dish. CHEESE, MARIGOLD. Pick the freshest and best coloured petals of marigold flowers, pound them in a mortar, and strain out the juice. Put this into milk at the same time with the rennet. The milk being set and the curd produced break it as gently and equally as you possibly can; put it into the cheese vat, and press it with a gentle weight, there being such a number of holes at the bottom of the vat as will let the whey easily out, or else let there be a spout to carry off the whey, though the holes will be the best. They must be finished the same as all other cheeses. CHEESE, MITES IN (To Destroy). Pour on each side of the cheese ravaged by these insects a sufficiently soaking coat of melted mutton suet boiling hot, an application that not only arrests any further destruction from that source, but also prevents the too rapid decaying action of the air. We have seen a cheese on which this experiment was tried on one side only; the coated side was still in a state of perfect preservation, while the unprotected side was perforated and scooped out nearly to the middle of the cheese by the unchecked activity of the mites. CHEESE, MONTMORENCY CREAM. Boil 1 pint of cream with 2 ozs. of sugar; when it boils take it off the fire and let it cool; when cool put in ^ tea-spoonful of orange-flower water. Whip the cream, and as the cream thickens take it off with a skimmer, and put it on a basket with a fine cloth laid over it. Continue to whip until there is no longer any cream remain- ing. Let it drain, and serve it on a plate. CHEESE EN NEIGE. Put into an earthen pan 1| pint of very thick cream, a piece of gum tragacanth about the size of a large pea, in powder, and a little fresh lemon-peel grated. Whip the cream well, and as the froth thickens take it off with a skimmer, and put it into a small osier cheese basket. If the basket is not closely made, put in the bottom of it a little piece of muslin or fine linen. When the cream is all whipped and skimmed let the cheese drain.