£ 37» J CRO CRO When both plates are full place them on stools in the oven or stove, close the top, and lay embers over it, so that the croquettes may be as far removed from the fire as possible; let them remain in this state all night; the next morn- ing put them into a moderate oven, and bake them fifteen or twentj' minutes; they should then quit the plate easily, and be of a clear reddish colour; remove them from the plates whilst hot. CROQUETTES OF RICE. Boil ilb. of rice till it becomes quite soft and dry, and then mix with it two table-spoonsful of rich; but not strong, grated cheese, a small tea-spoonful of powdered mace, and sufficient fresh butter to moisten it; mince very fine six table-spoonsful of the white part of a cold chicken or turkey, the soft parts of six large oysters, and a sprig or two of tarragon or parsley; add a grated nut- meg and the yellow rind of a lemon; mix the whole well, moistening it with cream or white wine. Take of the prepared rice a portion about the size of an egg, flatten it, and put into the centre a dessert-spoonful of the mixture ; close the rice round it as you would the paste round a dumpling apple ; then form it into the shape of an egg ; brush it over with some beaten yolk of egg, and then dredge it with pounded crackers. In this way make up the whole into oval balls; have ready in a saucepan over the fire 1 lb. of boiling lard; into this throw the croquettes two at a time, so as to brown them ; let them brown for a few minutes, then take them out with a perforated skimmer, drain them from the lard, and serve them up hot, garnished with curled parsley. CROQUETTES OP SWEETBREADS. Having trimmed some sweetbreads nicely and removed the gristle, parboil them, and mince them very fine ; add grated bi'ead; season with a very little salt and pepper, some powdered mace and nutmeg, and some grated lemon rind; moisten the whole with cream, atid make it into small cones or sugar loaves, forming and ismoothing them nicely; have ready some beaten egg mixed with grated bread crumbs; dip into it each croquette, and fi-y them slowly in fresh butter; serve them hot, standing up on a dish, and with a sprig of parsley on the top of each. Sweetbreads should never be used unless per- fectly fresh. They spoil very rapidly. As soon as they are brought from market they should be slit open and laid in cold water. Never attempt to keep sweetbreads till the next day except in cold weathen CROQUIGNOLES A LA CHARTRES. Blanch and pound 5 Ozs. of sweet and 3 ozs. of bitter almonds with a little white of egg ; put ^ lb. of flour on your slab, and make a hole in the middle, in which put the almonds, with i lb. of powder sugar, 4 yolks of eggs, and a little salt. Make this into a paste, and roll it into strips about the size of your finger; cut them into square pieces the bigness of a filbert, and roll them into little balls; place them on baking plates rubbed with wax; doi-ez and bake them in a moderate oven. Remove them from the plates whilst hot, as, if suffered to grow cold first, they will break to pieces. CROQUIGNOLES A LA FRxiNgAISES. Break up J lb. of bitter macaroons so small as to be able to sift them, and, having laid i lb. of sifted flour on your slab, make a hole in the middle, and put in the macaroons, with 6 ozs. of powder sugar, 3 yolks of eggs, 3 ozs. of fresh butter, and a grain of salt; make these ingredients into a paste, and form the croquignoles into the shape and size of olives; dorez them lightly, and bake them in a gentle oven. These must be of a lighter colour than other croquignoles. CROTON OIL is the most violent of pur- gatives. It is obtained from the seeds of the Croton Tiglium, which is a native of the island of Ceylon, and is found in Malabar, China, Cochin-Cliina, and the Molucca Islands. Every part of the plant would seem to be endowed with medicinal activity. The root acts as a drastic pur- gative, and when pulverised and exhibited in the dose of a few grains is considered at Amboyna and Batavia as a specific for dropsy. The ivood [Lignum Pavanm) pi'oduces, when administered in small doses, a diaphoretic effect, and in larger ones it proves drastic. The leaves are also purga- tive, and when dried and powdered are supposed to afford an antidote against the bite of the cohra de capella. The seeds, however, are the parts which have been more generally employed in medicine, the effects of which appear to have been well known for nearly a thousand years. They were early introduced into Europe, and long known under the names of Grana Molucca, Tilii grana, and Grana Tiglia. It appears that they were at first very frequently administered, but their extreme acrimony and violence, and probably the accidents which arose from their injudicious use, soon banished the article from medical practice. In India, however, these seeds are still employed as an effectual purgative, after first undergoing the process of roasting or baking for the purpose of removing the shell, rendering the nut pulverulent, and at the same time of moderating its acrimonious qualities. The expressed oil of these seeds does not appear to have been obtained in a separate form until a later period. This oil does not produce any effects which caiinot be commanded by other drastic purgatives ; its value depends upon the facility with which it may be administered. In some cases it is amply sufticient to touch the tongue, in others a drop or two will be required.