CAR CAR [ 244 ] small hole on the top of the ham at c, and taking thence in succession thin circular slices, the gravy is preserved and the meat kept moist. The best and most economical way is to begin at the hock end, and proceed onwards. When used for pies, ham should be cut from the under side, first taking off a thick slice. CARVING : Lamb, Fore-quaeteb op. Take the shoulder from the breast and ribs, by passing the knife in the direction bed, keeping it to- wards you in a horizontal position, that the meat may not be cut too much from the bones. If it is grass lamb and the shoulder is large, lay it in another dish. Squeeze the juice of a lemon, or half of a Seville orange, on the other part, and eprinkle thereon a little pepper and salt. Then divide the gristly part from the ribs in the direction e c, and help either from that or the ribs, according to taste. Mutton, Haunch of. This is the leg and loin, so cut as to resemble a haunch of venison, and, of course, is to be carved in the same manner. Mutton, Leg of. A boiled leg of mutton should be sent up to table as hei-e represented, i.e., lying upon its back. The shank, which should be broken and bent for the convenience of putting into a less pot or vessel to boil, is not broken and bent in a roasted joint. Of course, it should be wound round, after it is taken up, with half a sheet of writing-paper, and so sent to table that the carver in taking hold of it may not grease his hands. Accord- ingly, when he wishes to cut it on the under side, it being too heavy a joint to be easily turned with a fork, the shank should be held with the left hand; the carver will then be enabled to turn it readily, and to cut it where he pleases with the right. A leg of wether mutton (which is by far the best flavoured) is known by the kernel, or round lump of fat just above the letter a. When a leg of mutton is first cut, the carver should turn the joint. towards him as it here lies, the shank to the left hand : then, holding it steadily with his fork, he should cut in deep on the fleshy side, quite to the bone, in the direction a to c, cutting right through the kernel of fat, called the pope's eye, which many are fond of. The thickest and most juicy parts of the leg are fi-om the line a c upwards to b, but many prefer the part which is about the shank or knuckle, especially when boiled; this part is by far the coarser. The fat of this joint lies chiefly on the ridge at a. There is one bone that can be readily sepa- rated from the leg of mutton; it is called the cramp bone, and is to be cut out by holding the knuckle in the left hand, and cutting down at the point d, then passing the knife under the cramp bone in the direction of d to g. CARVING: Mutton, Loin of. Cut the joints into chops, and serve them separately, or cut slices the whole length of the loin, or run the knife along the chine-bone, and then slice it, the fat and lean together. Mutton, Neck of. It should be prepared for table as follows :—Cut off the scrag, have the chine-bone carefully sawn off, and also the top of the long bones (about an inch and a half), and the thin part turned under. Carve in the direction of the bones. Mutton, Saddle of, sometimes called a cMne of mutton, the saddle being two necks, but, as the two necks are now seldom sent to table to- gether, the two loins are called a saddle. A saddle of mutton is a genteel and handsome dish. It consists of the two loins together, the back-bone running down the middle to the tail. Of course, when it is to be carved, you must cut a long slice in either of the fleshy parts on the side of the back-bone, in the direction a b. If sent up with the tail it may be readily divided into several pieces, by cutting between the joints of the tail, which are about the distance of an inch apart. Mutton, Scrag of, when roasted, is very fre- quently separated from the ribs of the neck, and in that case the meat and bones may be helped together.