CLE ■[ 312 ] CLE but washing them out as before while the water is warm, and squeezing them hard when taken out. Prepare a third lather with water scalding hot, but not boiling, as that is apt to render the things yellow. Then put a small quantity of powder blue into a cup, with about as much water as will wet it, shaking the cup about to mix it, when it is to be poured into the scalding water, and stirred about till it is sufficiently blue. Then a lather is to be made of it with soap as before, tlie yellowest articles being put in first, and tlie whole covered with a clean cloth. They may either be washed out whilst warm, or be allowed to stand all night, for all the foulness ought now to have disappeared, and standing in the water will tend to clear them. In washing these articles out of the last lather the blue ought all to be washed out; then they must be laid in cold spring or pump water. If there be not sufficient time to starch them all at once let no more be done than there is time to finish, because lying in the starch will make them look yellow, and they may remain in the spring water till there is leisure to go on with the starching, provided this be not longer than two days, for fear of mildew. It is not considei'ed proper to boil fine articles, as it not only wears them soon out, but is apt to give them a yellow tinge. Fine articles should not have soap rubbed upon them, because the washing and rinsing them to get out the soap cause them to fray. Rinsing. In order to rinse fine articles before starching put some spring or pump water into a clean pan, and, putting a small portion of blue in a cup wetted with a little water, shake it so as to mix it, and put it into the water in small quantities, stirring it about with the hand. Into this water put the whitest of the fine articles one by one, previously squeezing them hard. Tvra or three will be enough at a time, for, if many be put in, the blue will settle upon them, and make them appear clouded and marbled. When any blue does settle in this manner acci- dentally let the parts be rubbed lightly by hand in the water, and it will not be difficult to get it off. If any of the finer articles be yellow a greater portion of blue added to the rinsing water will be advantageous. After rinsing out the articles let them be squeezed one by one between the hands very hard, for if any water be left in they will not take the starch. Then pull them out one by one with very dry hands, double them, and lay them on a clean dry cloth previously to the operation of starching. Some people starch the articles in the dry state, but this is not only apt to fray them, but makes them yellow and stiff. Starching. For caps, muslins, and other fine articles, prepare the starch by taking 1 pint of spring or pump water to J lb. of starch, and a little gum arable or isinglass may ho added. Warm the water a little more than milk warm in a very clean saucepan over a clear fire, and strain it if isinglass be used; put in the starch, and slowly stir it round in one direction till it just boils up, and no more, for if it is allowed to boil long it renders it yellow. Take it off, and pour it into a clean pan, covering it over with a plate till it becomes cold. It will prevent the starch from being too sticky if a small piece of rendered mutton suet be added to it; but some use a mould candle, stirring the starch about with it just before it boils. It will also make the starch much clearer, and consequently will render the articles clearer, and make them keep longer, to prepare the water by putting into a pint of water a piece of alum the size of a walnut, letting the whole come to a boil in a clean saucepan. Pour this out into a pan containing three pailsful of water, cover it over, and let it stand twelve hours, when it will be rendered very clear, and well adapted both for making clear starch and for washing or rinsing fine articles. The made starch, when cold, is to be mixed with a littlo blue by taking some blue in one hand and a portion of starch in the other, so as to incorpo- rate them thoroughly. When blued starch 13 used this is, of course, unnecessary. Care nui.st be taken not to make the starch too blue, and no more should be made at once than is to bo immediately used, because when- allowed to stand it tinges the articles yellow. Let the articles, according to circumstances, be doubled by the selvages, and, taking thcni one by one in the left hand, spread the starch upon them with the right, taking care not to put it too thickly. Put the starch first on one bide and then on the other, without opening such articles as are double. It will be best in this process to begin first with the finest caps or tho like, letting those of thicker fabric come last, for the starch that comes out of the finer things will do well enough for those that are coarser, such as aprons and handkerchiefs, thin starch being best for thick fabrics, as thick starch ren- ders them too stiff. When the caps and other fine articles have been done over with the starch, and well kneaded with the fist doubled till tho starch sticks about the hands, they must then be wrung pretty hard, and wiped with a dry cloth. They must afterwards be opened out, and rubbed very slightly through the hand. Clapping. In the case of caps and other fine articles, when they have been opened and rubbed through the hands take the two ends of the lappets, or the corners of things so shaped, to the middle of the article, and, holding them in this manner, let them be clapped altogether between the hands very hard. During the pro-