BIR BIR [ 110 3 edge of your binding to tbe raw edge of your flounce. Then turn the binding over, and fell it down on the wrong side, taking care to let no stitches be seen below the run on the right side. The reason why this binding is made double is that it so stands off with a handsome roundness. This bindmg is most used for bows and flounces, and other light trimmings ; while the French hem suits better for finishing a dress at the bottom, or for edging a cape, or the front of a plain pelisse. French hem is made like plain-binding, except that it has a cord at the upper edge. This cord is run on, on the right side of the article to be trimmed, and the strip is then turned over, and felled down at the back. BIRCH TREE {Betula alba). The wood of the birch is of a very extensive use. Professor Pallas informs us that the Tartars cover their huts with its bark, and the navigators of the Volga construct of it portable boats, cradles, &c. It is also used in fumigations to purify a vitiated atmosphere. The Laplanders cut the outer bark into thongs, of which they manu' facture ropes, baskets, and other utensils, and it even forms some part of their wearing apparel: it is also used in dyeing; and, as a substitute for oak-bark, in tanning. The Swedish house- wives employ this bark, after burning it to a certain degree, as a cement for broken china or earthenware. When boiled with alum it affords a dye of a dark red colour. Dambourney as- serts that the bark is better for tanning, when dried, than in a fresh state. For this purpose it is cut into small pieces, and boiled for half an hour in pure water, and the prepared hides are steeped in it while lukewarm. The ley is again boiled on the two following days, and the steeping of the leather as often repeated, after which it is suspended to dry in the air. Leather thus prepared is said to be waterproof. The leaves of the birch give a yellowish colour to wool which has been previously prepared with alum. Those collected in the spring, however, are not so proper for dyeing as the autumnal leaves, because the former produce a greenish tinge, but the latter afford a beautiful yellow colour. They have also been used in the dropsy, itch, &c., either applied externally or in de- coctions taken by the mouth. The fungus which grows on the trunk of the birch tree is a very good styptic i and when boiled in water, beaten, and dried in an oven, it makes excellent touchwood. Birch twigs are used for fishing- rods and brooms, as well as by bird-catchers, who smear them with birdlime. BIRCH WINE was formerly in great repute as a remedy for nephritic disorders, but is dis- used in modern practice. As it is a rich cordial, and, according to Dr. Needham, an excellent remedy for consumption and the scurvy, we shall acquaint our readers with the method of preparing it, though we have no experience of its medicinal powers. The juice or sap of the burch tree should be extracted about the begin- ning of March, when the buds begin to swell, and before they have opened their leaves. An incision or hole must be made in the trunk, almost as deep as the pith, under some branch of a well-spreading tree, on its south-western side, and about one foot above the ground : a hollow tube should then be fitted to the aper- ture, through which the sap will flow similar to distillation. On applying a little mould to the orifice the wound will heal, and the bark after- wards close. Some persons are of opinion that the sap drawn from the trunk of the tree is not so pure as that obtained from its higher branches. To prevent this juice from fermenting till a suf- ficient quantity is procured, the bottles in which it is collected ought to be immediately stopped. One of the best methods for making birch wine is as follows :—To every gallon of the sap add 1 pint of honey or ] lb. of sugar, stir the whole together, and boil it for an hour with a few cloves and a little lemon-peel; at the same time care- fully skim off the rising impurities. When cool a few spoonsful of new ale should be added, to induce a proper degree of fermentation ; and, after the yeast has settled, the wine should be bottled, corked tightly, and kept for use. If this liquor be prepared with proper attention, it becomes so strong that the common stone bottles, into which it is decanted, frequently burst. Another recipe is a? follows :—The season for procuring the liquor from the birch trees is the beginning of March while the sap is rising, and before the leaves shoot out; for when the sap is exuding, and the leaves appear, the juice, by being long digested in the bark, grows thick and coloured, which before was white and clear. The method of procuring the juice is by boring holes in the body of the trees, and putting in fossets, which are commonly made of the branches of elder, the pith being taken out. You may, with- out hurting the tree, if large, tap it in several places, four or five at a time, and by that means save from a good many trees several gallons every day; if you have not enough in one day, the bottles in which it drops must be corked close, and rosined or waxed. However, make use of it as soon as you can. Take the sap and boil it as long as any scum rises, skimming it all the time. To every gallon of liquor put 4 lbs. of good sugar and the thin peel of a lemon; boil it afterwards half an hour, skimming it well; pour it into a clean tub, and, when it is almost cold, set it to work with yeast spread upon a taast; let it stand five or sk days, stiiTiug it