BLO BLO [ 129 ] could not be proposed. One person will faint at the very sight of a lancet, while another will lose almost the whole blood of his body before he faints. Swooning depends more upon the state of the mind than the body: besides, it may often be occasioned or prevented by the manner in which the operation is performed. Children are generally bled by leeches. This, though sometimes necessary, is a very trouble- some and uncertain practice. It is impossible to know what quantity of blood is taken away by leeches; besides, the bleeding is often very difficult to stop, and the wounds are not easily healed. Would those who practise bleeding take a little more pains, and accustom them- selves to bleed children, they would not find it such a difficult operation as they imagine. Certain vulgar prejudices with regard to bleeding still prevail among the country people. They talk, for instance, of head-veins, heart- veins, breast-veins, &c., and believe that bleed- ing in these will certainly cure all diseases of the parts whence they are supposed to come, without considering that, all the blood-vessels arise from the heart, and return to it again; for which reason, unless in topical inflammations, it signifies very little from what part of the body blood is taken. But this, though a foolish pre- judice, is not near so hurtful as the vulgar notion that the first bleeding will perform wonders. This belief makes them often postpone the ope- ration when necessary, in order to reserve it for some more important occasion, and, when they think themselves in extreme danger, they fly to it for relief, whether it be proper or not. Bleed- ing at certain stated periods or seasons has likewise bad effects. It is a common notion that bleeding in the feet draws the humours downwards, and, conse- quently, cures diseases of the head and other superior parts; but we have already observed, that in all topical affections the blood ought to be drawn as near the part as possible. When it is necessary, however, to bleed in the foot or hand, as the veins are small and the bleeding is apt to stop too soon, the part ought to be im- mersed in warm water, and kept there till a sufficient quantity of blood be let. All the apparatus essential for blood-letting, on the part of the patient, is a bandage or fillet, two or more small pieces of folded linen for compresses, a basin to receive the blood, and a little clean water and a towel. The bandage ought to be about a yard in length and nearly two inches broad, a common riband or garter being frequently employed. The compresses are made by doubling a bit of linen rag about two inches square. On the part of the surgeon it is neces- sary for him to have a good lancet, of proper ehape ; for, if the shoulders of the lancet be too broad, it will not readily enter the vein, and when it does enter, it invariably makes a large opening, which is not always desirable. If the lancet be too spear-pointed, an incautious ope- rator would often run a risk of transfixing the vein, and wounding the artery beneath it. More, however, depends on the mode of introducing the lancet than on its shape. During the operation of bleeding the patient may lie down, sit down, or stand up, each of which positions may be chosen as circumstances may require. If the patient be apt to faint froin the loss of a small quantity of blood, and such fainting can answer no surgical purpose, it is " best to bleed him in a recumbent posture; but when the person is strong and vigorous, there is little occasion for this precaution, and a sitting posture is to be preferred as the most conve- nient, both for the surgeon and patient. In fat subjects the large veins at the bend of the arm are sometimes totally imperceptible, notwithstanding the fillet is tightly applied, the limb is put in warm water, and everything done to make those vessels as turgid as possible. Under these circumstances, if the surgeon has not had much experience in the practice of venesection, he will do well to be content with opening one of the veins of the back of the hand, after putting the member for some time in warm water, and applying a ligature round the wrist. In children a suflicient quantity of blood cannot always be obtained by venesection, and, in this event, the free application of leeches, and, occasionally, the puncture of the temporal arteiy, are the only effectual methods. One of the most common ill consequences of bleeding in the arm is a thrombus, or ecchy- mosis, that is, a small tumour round the orifice, and occasioned by the blood insinuating itself into the adjoining cellular substance at the time this fluid is escaping from the vein. Changing the posture of the arm will frequently hinder the thrombus from increasing in size, so as to obstruct the evacuation of blood. The best ap- plications for promoting the absorption of these tumours are those containing spirit, vinegar, or muriate of ammonia. Compresses wetted with any lotion of this sort may be advantageously put on the swelling, and confined there with a slack bandage. The integuments and subjacent cellular sub- stances, the absorbents, the veins, &c., are all liable to inflammation, in consequence of bleed- ing, a nerve also may be wounded, all requiring proper surgical treatment. BLOOD, SPITTING OF, or Hemoptysis. We mean here to treat of that discharge of blood from the lungs only which is called an hamoptoe, or spiltini) of blood. Persons of a slender make and a lax fibre, who have long necks and straight