DYS [ 447 1 UYS ir.eg, 8 grains. Mix and make a powder, to be taken morning and evening. And to allav the pain and flatulency in the stomach and in- testines take prepared chalk, 1 drachm ; pepper- mint water, 2 ozs.; pure water, 4 ozs. ; spirit of pimento, 1 oz.; tincture of opium, 50 drops. Make a mixture, of which two table-spoonsful may be taken three or four times a day, to which a drachm of ether may occasionally be added. And, lastly, to remove costiveness, gentle laxatives combined with aromatics ; for example, take socotrine aloes and rhubarb in powder, of each 1 drachm ; aromatic powder, .1 scruple; Castile soap, ^ drachm; syrup enough to form the whole into a mass, which is to be divided into fifty pills, of which two or three may be taken for a dose. Or, take rhu- barb, 1 scruple; ginger, 5 grains ; mngnesia, i drachm. Mix for a powder, to be taken occasionally. Stools procured at regular and stated intervals by soliciting them by voluntary and persevering efforts, such as every morning, will operate as a powerful opiate in aiding the other means employed, and, although some days, nay, weeks, may elapse before this regularity be pi'ocured, the patient will evidently succeed if he con- tinue his endeavours to obtain a motion every morning. Where indigestion is occasioned by a defective secretion of bile, in consequence of a diseased state of the liver, spleen, or biliary ducts, calomel may be given to the amount of three, four, or five grains every third or fourth night, made into a pill, succeeded the next morning by a draught composed of 3 ozs. of senna infusion with 2 drachms of Epsom salts. As the food and drink we daily consume to supply the waste of the body necessarily leave behind a useless matter, a daily motion of the bowels is extremely salutary, particularly in persons subject to costiveness ; and where the -bile is deficient, as may be known by the clayey appearance of the stools, the following pills will be found to answer this purpose:—Take of compound gamboge pill. 6 grains ; extract of bitter apple, 6 grains; calomel, 2 grains; tar- tarised antimony, i grain ; oil of cloves, 2 drops; simple syrup enough to make a mass. Divide it into four pills; two to be taken every third night at bedtime. To obviate the henrtburn and vomiting attendant on indigestion a blister may be applied over the stomach ; and to accomplish the third intention, viz., that of restoring the tone of the stomach, such medicines should be employed as are known to operate directly on this organ, adopting such other means as are : calculated to strengthen the system generally, ;as aromatics and astringent bitters, e.g.;—Take infusion of gentian, 6 ozs.; tiactureof cardamoms, 1 oz ; tincture of myrrh, k oz. Make a mixture, and take two table-spoonsful three or four times a day. Or, take gentian root bruised, 1 oz.; sweet flag root sliced, and cardamom seeds, of each 6 drachms; dried orange-peel, I oz.; white wine, I quart. Let them infuse or steep for eight days, and afterwards let the patient take a wine-gh^ssful twice a day. The Peruvian bark, mineral acids, and prepara- tions of steel may also be given, the latter in particular, where the appetite is impaired and capricious, viz., take wine of iron, 1 oz.; infusion of gentian, 6 ozs.; tincture of cascarilla, 4 drachms. Mix, and take two table-spoonsful twice or thrice a day. Or, take extract of Peruvian bark and extract of gentian, of each 1 drachm ; sulphate of iron, ^ drachm; pow- dered myrrh, 1 drachm; syrup of ginger enough to form the whole into a mass, to be made into sixty pills, of which take three twice or thrice a day, washing them down with a wine-glassful of the infusion of cascarilla bark. In addition to this means for strengthening and restoring the tone of the stomach and digestive organs generally, the patient should take daily exercise on horseback, which is pre- ferable to walking, where it can conveniently be indulged in without fatiguing or over-exerting himself; he should breathe a pure, dry, and temperate air; lead a regular life, get soon to bed, rise early, and use light animal food for his diet, avoiding farinaceous vegetables; adapt Lis dress to the climate and changes of the weather, and attend to the state of his bowels by never being too long costive. Frequent bathing in cold water during the season is also recommended. The mineral waters are of themselves powerful remedies in cases of dyspepsy, and the Buxton water is found of considerable service in ob- viating many of the symptoms of defective digestion originating in a life of high indulgence and intemperance. Change of scene, by amusing the mind at the same time that the body is employed, is of essential importance in dyspepsy, as well as in many other chronic diseases ; and much, if not the whole of the benefit derived from visiting watering places, may be attributed to the amuse- ment afforded to the mind alone, while in the water itself there may be no virtue at all. Dyspeptic people should never make a full meal, but eat a little at a time and often, chewing it well with the saliva before swallowing it. Biscuit should be preferred to bread which is fermented. They should not drink diluent fluids at their meals, lest the solvent property of the saliva, an important agent in digestion, be diminished; nor should the quantity takeii after-