CAL CAK [ 209 ] aticl sugar together on a clean dresser, willi half water and half whites of eggs, and as many caraway seeds as you think proper. Mix all together so as to make a vei^ fine paste that you can roll on the dresser, and the thinner the better; cut out the shape you like with a tin cutter (round and scalloped is the most common, but vary the shape to your own fancy); roll them very thin, and tliey will be the crisper, for, if they are not crisp, tliey are not worth eating ; put them on a sheet of paper, and put them into a rather slow oven, and, if you think it too hot, put as many sheets of paper as you think fit, to prevent them fi'om being burnt. Bake them very little, so as just to change the colour of them, and butter the sheet of paper you put them on, that they may come off easily. CAKE, YEAST. Take 1 lb. of flour ; 2 lbs. of currants, washed and picked; I lb. of Lisbon sugar; J lb. of citron and can- died orange-peel, cut into slices; cinnamon and mace, a small quantity of each, pounded and sifted. Make a hole in the centre of the ingredients, put in 1 gill of sweet wine and a little warm milk. Mix all together, fill a hoop with it, let it remain till it rises, and 1)^116 it CAKE, YORKSHIRE. Take 2 lbs. of flour, and mix with it 4 ozs. of butter, melted in 1 pint of good milk, 3 spoonsful of yeast, and 2 eggs. Beat all well together, and let it rise; then knead it and make it into cakes. Let them rise on tins before you bake. CAL DUMACHU CALDE. Cut the breast out of 2 chickens, and pound the remainder. Put the pounded meat with the gizzards to simmer two hours in 2 quarts of water. Prepare one of the breasts by pounding it well; strain the liquor, of which there ought to be at least 3 pints; add the pounded meat, by rubbing it with a little of the soup; put in the other breast whole, some fried onions, the livers, gizzards, and J spoonful of curry powder, acid and salt. More curry or Cayenne may be added, accord- ing to taste. CALASH. This is a kind of hood for ladies to wear over their heads, when going to evening parties. Supposing it to be wished of black silk, buy f yard of the silk, and the same quantity of pink sarcenet for lining; 3| yards of black ribbon, f inch wide, for the runners ; 1 yard of pink for strings, 2 inches wide ; 2 small canes, 27 inches long, the size of a thick bonnet-wire, and a sheet of white wadding. Cutoff the selvage way \H inches of the silk, and of the strips left make the curtain and horseshoe—the former must be 12^ inches long and 4 J- inches wide ; the latter 5 inches wide, and 4i inches high. Now quilt the lining 6J inches deep; viz., lay the wadding. split in halves to make it thin, on the pink sarcenet, and run it in stripes crossways with fine silk, If inch one way, and 2 inches the other. Join the outside and inside tog.iiher by bringing the black over the lining enough to admit one of the canes, and make a running for the other close to it. Now measure 4| inches, and begin the first numers (they must be all ^ inch wide); leave 2 inches, and make the second; leave If inch, and make the third. Gather up the end, leaving 3 inches plain on each side, quilt your horseshoe (the black one), cord it round, and put it in, lining it afterwards that all the raw edges may be covered. The curtain must be quilted half way up to make a border of a diamond and a half. Line it, and make a narrow runner at the bottom (the lining should be a little wider than the out- side, to form, or rather cover the joint, and make the runner at the bottom of the hood); put it on, leaving 3^ inches on each side from the front. Make eyelet-holes in the middle of each runner, at the top of the hood, and also below the horseshoe ; put in your narrow ribbon and the canes, draw it up the size you like, which will just allow three good bows and ends at the top, and one at the back ; put in the strings, and turn up the hood in front 2 or 3 inches, and you will have made a pretty and truly comfortable hood, or calash, for evening wear. CALCAVALLA. See LisnoN Wines. CALENDERING is the process by which a glazed surface is put upon silks, stuffs, linens, and calicoes. It used to be done by rubbing the surface with a very smooth round flint pebble, but now by pressing the fabric between two heated iron rollers. Calico is always calen- dered before being printed, and so are all goods after being scoured or dyed. Household furniture and wearing-apparel must be very valuable to render it worth the expense of being calendered. Calamanco is a fine woollen stuff highly calendered. CALF'S BRAINS (in Aspic). Prepare your brains a.s for poelees. Put some lukewarm aspic in a mould, lay it about an inch thick, let it cool and congeal, and then, having cut the brains into four parts, place them on the aspic in a thin layer, and pour on them a sufficient quantity of nearly cold aspic to fill the mould, and place it till the jelly quits the side, or dip the mould in ice. When properly set, and it is wanted for table; heat a cloth, and rub your mould with it into w'arm water; turn it out with ' gi'eat care, and if any pieces of the jelly should be spilt on the dish suck them up by means of a reed. CALF'S BRAINS (in Black Buttf.b). Clean, soak, and blanch 3 or 4 calves' brains;