I .37 '> APP APP Put a handful of vine leaves iuto a preserving- pan, then a layer of codlins, and vine leaves alternately, until it is full, with vine leaves pretty thickly strewed on the top, and fill the pan with spring water; cover it close to keep in the steam, and set it on a slow fire till the apples become soft. Take them out, and pare off the rinds with a penknife, and then put them into the same water with the vine leaves; hut take care that the water is become quite cold, or it will cause them to crack; put tbera into a little alum, and set them over a slow fire till they are green; then take them out and lay them on a sieve to drain. Make a good syrup, and give them a gentle boil three successive days; then put them into small jars, with brandy paper over them, and tie them down tight. APPLES, PRESERVED (Golden Pippins). Take the pippins, pare, core, and quarter them, put them into water, and boil them till the strength of the pippins be boiled out, then strain them through a jelly bag, and to 1 lb. add 2 lbs. of double-refined sugar, 1 pint of pippin liquor, and 1 quart of spring water. When your sugar is melted, and your syrup boiled a little and clean skimmed, dry your pippins with a clean cloth, put them into your syrup, take them off the fire a little, and then set them on again; let them boil as fast as you possibly can, having a clear fire under them, till they jelly. You must take them off sometimes, and shake them, but stir them with a spoon. A little before you take them off the fire squeeze the juice of a lemon and an orange into them, which must be first passed through tiffany; give them a boil or two after; then take them up, or they will turn red. At the first putting of your sugar in allow a little more for this juice. You may boil orange or lemoa-peel very tender in spring water, and cut it in thin, long pieces, and then boil them in a little sugar and water, and put them in the bottom of your glasses. Turn your pippins often even in boiling. APPLES AND RAISINS. Pare and cut 12 apples into quarters, and each quarter into six pieces; put them into a pan with 4 ozs. of g.>od fresh butter, 2 oz. of sugar, over which a little orange-peel has been grated, and ^ lb, of currants, well washed ; toss up these ingredients over a moderate fire for a few minutes, and then let them cool. Make a round under-crust 7 inches in diameter ; moisten the edge, and put on it a band of puff-paste f inch high and ^ inch thick. Put your apples, &c., in this so as to form a sort of a dome ; cover them with the puff- paste, taking care that it does not extend beyond the band, upon which it must be pressed down; wash it over with the white of egg, and bake it in a gentle oven for about an hour. When a little cooled, take the whites of two eggs, whipped to a strong froth and mixed with 2 ozs. of powdered sugar, and mask with it your cake, sprinkling it with sifted sugar; then, having drained and dried some currants, mix them with sugar and strew them over the dome ; form a crown of small meringues with the remainder of the white of egg and place it on the band; cover this with sifted sugar, and colour the whole of a clear yellow in the oven; and then serve immediately. APPLES AND RICE (1). Scoop out the cores and pare, very neatly, half a dozen good- sized apples ; boil them in thin, clarified sugar; let them imbibe the sugar, and be careful to preserve their form. Make a marmalade with some other apples, adding to it apricot marma- lade and 4 ozs. of rice previously boiled in milk, with sugar, butter, and the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs; put them into a dish for table, surround it with a border of rice, and place the whole apples in the rice and marmalade and bake it. When done, put into the apples a tea- spoonful of any kind of sweatmeat you may think proper. APPLES AND RICE (2). Pare, core, and cut 4 or 5 good apples in quarters; boil some rice in a cloth, and when soft put in the apples; tie up very loose, and boil gently till sufficiently done. APPLES, STEWED. Take to 1 quart of water 1 lb. of double-refined sugar, beaten fine; boil and skim it, and put into it 1 pound of the largest and clearest pippins, pared, cut in halves, and cored; let them boil, covered with a continual froth, till they be as tender and clear as you would have them; then put in the juice of 2 lemons, and a little peel, cut like threads; let them boil up five or six times after the lemon is in ; then put them in a dish or salver. They should be done two hours before they are used. APPLES STEWED IN JELLY. Cut your apples in half; peel, and core them; and as you do them put them into cold water; then cut two apples into small pieces; put the whole into clarified sugar, with a glass of water, and some lemon-juice, and stew them; when sufficiently done, lay them in a dish; make a jelly of the syrup, and pass it through a cloth upon a silver plate, and let it cool and set, and when set, slide it carefully over the fruit. APPLES, STEWED WHOLE. Take 12 apples; pare them ; put the parings into a sauce- pan with water enough to cover them ; a blade of mace; 2 or 3 cloves; a piece of lemon-peel. Let them simmer till there is just enough to stew the pippins in; then strain the liquor and put it into the saucepan again, with sugar enough