CRU CUO [ 381 ] pan 1^ pint of water, 4 lbs. of flour, and 4 J ozs. of butter; stir till it is a thick paste, take it out, and add the yolks of 3 or 4 beaten eggs; work it well together, roll it out rather more than half an inch thick ; cut out the top and bottom ; set on the sides, keeping the paste rather within the edge of the bottom; pinch it all round to make the pieces adhere; then fill the pie, and brush round the upper sides of the crust and the outer edges of the cover with egg; lay on the cover, pinch it round neatly, and ornament it according to fancy with leaves, festoons, or chains of rings made of paste. CRUST, SHORT. Pound, sift, and dry 2 ozs. of white sugar; then mix it with 1 lb. of well-dried flour, rubbing into it so fine as not to be seen 3 ozs. of butter; then put the yolks of 2 eggs into some cream, and mix the whole into a smooth paste ; roll it out thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. CRUST SHORT AND RICH. Mix into a stifiBsh paste, using as little water as possible, 6 ozs. of butter and 8 ozs. of fine flour, rubbing the butter well into the flour before mixing it with the water; beat it well, and roll it thin. Bake in a moderate oven. This crust is proper, aa well as the above, for tarts of fresh or pre- served fruits. CRUST FOR VENISON PASTY. Work into a paste with warm water 2^ lbs. of butter, 1 peck of fine flour, and 4 eggs ; work it till Bmooth and of a good consistence. The paste should be put round the inside, but not at the bottom of the dish. Let the cover be tolerably thick, to bear the long continuance in the oven. CRUSTS FOR CHEESE. Take a half- baked loaf from the oven, and tear it into small rough bits with a couple of forks ; lay these on a tin, and put them back into the oven for ten minutes. If a light loaf be made for the pur- pose with new milk and 2 ozs. of butter the bits will quite resemble rusks. A sweet light cake pulled apart in the same manner is likewise very good. CRYING. We shall confine our notes to the squalling of infants. It is remarkable that the first symptoms of human life are uniformly those of loud cries. Hence superstitious persons are apt,to imagine that such are tlie prognostics of future misery. Those who reflect upon the previous situation of the new-born, who is now surrounded by a diff'erent element, and placed in a much colder temperature, may easily account for this natural phenomenon. Instead, therefore, of being alarmed by those plaintive expressions, we ought to rejoice, because they indicate ex- panded lungs and vital action. In a similar manner judicious persons will consider the fre- quent and almost instinctive cries of children as they advance in age, unless arising from acci- dental and obvious causes. The conduct of those mothers who from an excess of tenderness, and of those nui'ses who from too much ofiicious- ness, exert their utmost endeavours to relieve the clamorous noise of infants (often by the most absurd and pernicious means), equally deserve to be censured. Admitting that in some, nay, in many cases, it proceeds from a concealed pain, yet experience has sufficiently evinced . that these very cries alleviate, and often totally remove such painful sensations as are produced by flatulency, gripes, &c. Never- theless, when children continue in an uneasy state for a considerable time, violently drawing their legs towards their stomach, wemayconclude that they are afiiicted with colic pains; or, if they suddenly move their hands and arms to their face while crying, we may attribute it to difficult teething; and if other morbid symptoms accompany these loud complaints, especially if repeated at certain periods of the day, we ought in such cases by no means to neglect them, but endeavour to ascertain the efficient causes. Hunger is frequently assigned as a motive for crying, but it is not always really so. The latter is the sole language of infants, by which they manifest all their sensations and wants. If they cry without intermission it may be con- sidered as an indication of the return of appetite, and they ought to be satisfied either by the breast or other means; but if they vociferate quickly and abruptly it may be reasonably sup- posed to proceed from a sense of pain. Circum- stances of this nature claim the most diligent attention of mothers and nurses. We therefore earnestly enjoin them to study the exact distinc- tion of the diff'erent sounds expressed by their infants, as the results of such inquiries would greatly enable the medical assistant to ascertain with more precision the true cause of infantine CUCUMBER SALAD. Peel and cut a cucumber in slices, or peel without slicing it, and let it steep twenty-four hours in vinegar; then when you wish to serve drain off" the vinegar, and season the cucumber with pepper and salt. CUCUMBER SAUCE. Cut four cucumbers into pieces the size of half-a-crown, and three quarters of an inch thick ; put them in a clean cloth, and rub them well to take out the water; put a bit of butter into a stewpan, to which add the cucumbers, and set them over a brisk fire, taking care to shake them frequently ; when they are of a good colour put to them three large spoonsful of veloute and two of blond; let them remain a shoit time on the fire. CUCUMBER TOAST. Make a ragout of cucumbers well thickened; add to it the yolka