GAS [ 547 ] GAT Independently of all these, inflammation of the stomach may arise from an inflammation of some of the neighbouring parts, as the liver, intestines, &c. The symptoms of this complaint are violent burning pain, heat and tension in the neighbour- hood of the stomach, with great sourness and flatulence, severe vomiting, especially after any- thing is swallowed, whether solid or liquid ; most distressing thirst, restlessness and anxiety, and a continual tossing of 1>he body, with great weakness, constant watching, delirium, &c. The event of inflammation of the stomach is seldom favourable, as the patient is usually either suddenly destroyed b}' the violence of the inflammation, or else it terminates quickly in suppuration, ulceration, or gangrene. If, how- ever, the symptoms are very mild, and proper medicines have been early employed, it may terminate, nevertheless, in resolution, and that in the course of eight, or at most fifteen days. The cure of inflammation of the stomach is to be attempted by copious and repeated bleedings, without regard to the smallness of the pulse, or to the extreme weakness, fainting, or convulsions, for these are the effects of the disease. Bleeding, therefore, may be repeated every four or six hours, in such a quantity at a time as the action of the circulating medium will bear, which practice is to be continued as long as the characteristic symptoms of the disease remain. After bleeding from the arm several leeches are to be applied over the stomach, or cupping may be adopted if pi'e- ferred. A large blister may next be applied, and the cure assisted by fomenting the whole of the belly, as well as by administering frequent soothing and laxative clusters. A warm bath will prove beneficial, and bathing the feet in warm water is also recommended. In consequence of the irritable state of the stomach it will not retain medicine, and it is only after the violence of the pain and the fre- quency of vomiting are abated by the preceding treatment that opiates can be given, even in the form of clysters; but when the disease is somewhat brought under, opium may be given this way, as well as internally, in small doses. The stomach may be sheathed from any acri- monious substances coming in contact with it, and which may have caused the inflammation, by the patient taking small draughts of some mild diluent diink, such as chicken broth, linseed tea, or barley water, in which a small quantity of gum arable has been dissolved. When, however, the nature of the offending matter is known the proper specific remedies may be resorted to. Inflammation of the stomach, fortunately, is a very rare disorder. The fatal species of it arises chiefly tt/imrds the close of other diseases, in- dicating the certain approach to dissolution, and is unaccompanied with any marks of general inflammation, or by burning pain in the stomach. GxlTEAU DE COMPIEGNE. Take 3 lbs. of flour, 2 lbs. of butter, 1 oz. and 4 drachms of yeast, 1 oz. of salt, J lb. of sugar, a glass of cream, twelve yolks and twelve whole eggs, and five or six spoonsful of whipped cream. With these ingredients proceed as follows:—Sift the flour, of which put one-fourth part on the slab, make a hole in the middle, and put into it a glass of warm water and the yeast; mix them together as lightly and with as much despatch as possible, adding more warm water if necessary. When well worked up for some minutes gather it together (it ought to leave the slab and the hand freely), put it into a saucepan, cover it, and place it in a tolerably warm situation to rise. Take the rest of the flour, lay it on the slab, make a hole in the middle of it, in which put the salt, sugar, and cream ; stir these together well, and then put in the eggs one at a time; break them into a basin in case all should not be good. The eggs being put in, add by degrees the butter, stirring them well ; then mix the flour a little at a time with the above until the whole is formed into a smooth paste: more eggs must be added if it be too stiff'. Work it up a little, and then add the leaven ; work that in ; and lastly, put in the whipped cream. The whole operation being thus per- formed, have ready a cylindrical fluted mould, about eight inches in diameter and nine in height; butter it by means of a sponge, being careful that it is done in all parts, otherwise the gateau will adhere to it. Put the mould in a moderately warm place, but where there is a free current of air. When the gateau has risen so as to fill the mould, and the surface is a little inflated, it should be put into the oven instantly, for if not 'it falls and becomes heavy. The oven must be of moderate heat, and kept closed while the gateau is baking. Take it out in about an hour, and if it be flexible and light-coloured replace it for thirty or forty minutes ; but if, on the contrary, it is red and firm to the touch, place a tin plate on the top, and put it into the oven till done , remove the mould with care, and the gateau is finished. If the mould does not come off as it ought strike it gently with a spatula. When taken out put it in the oven a few minutes to dry. GATEAU A LA FRANgAlSE. Take 3 lbs. of flour, 12 drachms of yeast, 1 oz. of salt, 6 ozs. of sugar, the rinds of four oranges, half a glass of rum, | lb. of dry currants, twelve eggs, the same number of yolks, three glasses of cream, and 2 lbs. of butter. Grate the rind of the oranges on a piece of sugar, and