CAP [ 231 ] CAP take the yolks of 5 eggs, some minted thyme, and sliced nutmeg; mix them well together, and put them into the pan with clarified butter, half hot, and fry them till they are brown, then turn them out. Put the yolks of 3 eggs, an onion cut in quarters, anchovies, and a little grated nutmeg, into some white wine, strong broth or gravy; then pour out what liquor is in your pan, and put to it a ladleful of butter. Put this layer into your pan, and keep it continually shaking over a slow fire till it thickens (if it is too thick it may be thinned with white wine) ; then put your fowl into a dish, and pour in your sauce. Garnish it with slices of lemon and hard yolks of eggs chopped small, and serve. CAPON, BOILED. Draw your capon, wash it, and fill the inside with oysters. Cut a neck of mutton in pieces, boil it, and skim it well; put in the capon, and when it boils skim it again. Take care that you have not more broth than will just cover the meat. Then put in about a pint of white wine, some whole pepper, cloves, and mace. About a quarter of an hour before it is finished put in 3 anchovies carefully washed and boned. You may also, if you think proper, add parsley and sweet herbs. When it is sufficiently done put some sippets, then place the capon in the middle, and squeeze either an orange or lemon over before you serve. CAPON, LARDED (with Lemon). Let your capon be first scalded; then take a little dust of oatmeal, to make it look white, 1 pint of stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 or 3 dates cut longways, some currants parboiled, a little whole pepper, a blade of mace, and a nutmeg. Thicken it with almonds; season with sugar, verjuice, and a little butter; then lard the capon with thick lardings of bacon and preserved lemon, and boil it. When done place it in a deep dish, and pour the stock over it. Gar- nish with preserved barberries and sippets. CAPON PASTY. Roast the capon"; let it be cold. Take the flesh from the bones, and slice it, but keep the thighs and pinions whole. Add to the flesh of the capon 4 sweetbreads and |- pint of oysters. Season them with salt, cloves, nutmeg, and mace, sweet marjoram, pennyroyal, and thyme minced. Lay a sheet of paper or paste in your pasty-pan; lay the thighs and pinions at the bottom, and strew them over with sliced onions; then put in the flesh of the ca- pon, the sweetbreads, and the oysters cut in halves. Over these strew a handful of chestnuts boiled and blanched; then put butter over them. Close up your pan, and bake it. When done add gravy, good stock, drawn butter, anchovies, and grated nutmeg. Garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Tiurkey may be done in the same manner. CAPON PUDDING. Roast a capon, take out the meat of the breast, mince it small; then cut some pig's feet very thin, put them into a saucepan with a couple of roasted onions, then pound them in a mortar, with sweet herbs and shred parsley, seasoned with spices and mixed with the whites of 2 or 3 eggs beaten. Beat up the yolks of 12 eggs in 1 quart of milk, boil it to a cream; then mix all together and just warm it over the fire ; put these into skins, and do the same as you do with marrow puddings. Blanch them in water and milk, with slices of onion. When you use them spread a sheet of paper over the lard, lay it on a gridiron, broil your puddings on it over a gentle fire, and serve them. CAPON, ROASTED (with Sweet Heebs). When you have drawn the capon put your finger between the skin and the flesh to loosen it. Grate some bacon (the quantity of 2 eggs), and add to it 1 truffle, 1 mushroom, a little parsley and garden basil. Season these well with salt, pepper, and spices. Mix these well together, and put them between the skin and flesh of the capon, and sew up the end; then lard the capon with slices of veal and ham, putting a little sweet herbs, salt, and pepper between ; then wrap it up in sheets of paper, and put it on the spit to roast. By the time it is roasted have ready a ragout of veal, sweetbreads, fat livers, mushrooms, trufHes, morels, artichoke bottoms, asparagus tops in their season, which should be tossed up with a little melted lard and strengthened with a good gravy. Take off the fat and thicken it with cuUis of veal and ham. Place your capon on a dish, pour your ragout all over, and serve. CAPON SOUP. Truss a capon for boiling, leave on the pinions, and truss them nicely, put it in a pot with a bunch of sweet herbs, well seasoned, and 2 onions, 1 stuck with 2 cloves. Moisten with good stock; skim it well. When there is just time to cook the rice wash it, take up the fowl, and drop it into the boil- ing soup, with i lb. of prunes or raisins. Add a little beef juice to colour it. Unskewer and dish the capon; cover it with liver, egg, celery, fricassee, mushroom, oysters, or cream and lemon sauce, and serve it' as a remove to the soup. CAPONS, ROASTED. To eat tender they should be killed at least two days before they are dressed. You may judge of their ripeness for the spit by the ease of pulling out the feathers. The same general directions are to be followed as in roasting a turkey, only a full- grown fowl will take no more than an hour and a quarter, one of a middling size an hour, and a chicken from thirty to forty minutes. Pork sausages fried are a good accompaniment, or the fowl may be stufted with the same ingre- dients as a turkey, in which case the neck and