pared au casse, and roll them in white or in any 4 ozs. of crumbs of bread ia l^piut of cream, I [ 13 ] ALM ALM of Wancliecl almonds with thin gum-water, a few drops of lemon-juice, a little powdered cinnamon, and some ginger, finely grated and seered to give it a brown colour; sweeten and smooth it well; roll it out thin, and cut it into squares; dry it in a stove or before the fire. ALMOND ICING (for Beide Cake). The whites of 6 eggs, 1^ lb. of double-refined sugar, 1 lb. of Jordan almonds, blanched and pounded with a little rose-water; mix altogether, and whisk it well for an hour or two; lay it over the cake, and put it into the oven. ALMOND MACAROONS (Bitter). Take 1 lb. of blanched bitter almonds ; rub them well in a clean cloth, and beat them to a paste with the whites of 3 or 4 eggs; then put them into an earthen pan with 3 lbs. of powder sugar; mix them well together, and, if the paste should be too dry, moisten it with white of egg; drop it on sheets of paper in lumps about the size of a walnut, and bake them in a close, gentle oven. ALMOND MACAROONS (Sweet) are done in the same way; but 2 lbs. of sugar are sufficient for 1 lb. of almonds. ALMOND MARMALADE (Green). Take the down from green almonds; boil them till tender; throw them into cold water, and then set them to drain; break and pass them through a sieve ; put the marmalade on the fire to dry it, and for each pound put 1 lb. of sugar and i pint of water; boil and skim it until, on dipping year finger first in cold water, then in the sugar, it comes off clean when you put it in the water again; add the marmalade; heat, but not boil, both together, and then put it into pots. ALMOND MILK. Take 6 ozs. of sweet almonds and 1 pint of milk; 4 drachms of orange-flower water and 5 ozs. of sugar; blanch and pound the almonds to a very smooth paste, moistening them occasionally with a few drops of milk; when your paste crumbles, put it in the milk and mix them well, and boil it till reduced to half; then let it boil up once more ; let it cool, and serve. ALMOND MILK SOUP. Take ^Ib. of sweet almonds; put them on the fire with some water until near boiling ; then blanch and put them into fresh water ; drain and pound them. Boil 1 pint of water, a little sugar, salt, cinna- mon, coriander, and lemon-peel, for a quarter of an hour, and rub the almonds through a sieve to this. Lay some slices of toasted bread in a dish, and pour the milk of almonds on it as hot as possible without boiling. ALMOND NONPAREILS (Green). Drain some green almonds that have been preserved in brandy; dip them, one by one, in sugar pre- other coloured nonparlels, and dry them in a stove or gentle oven. ALMOND PASTE. Blanch 2 lbs. of sweet almonds and soak them in cold water for twelve hours; then dry them in a napkin and pound a quarter of them to a very fine paste with a little water and lemon-juice; pass them through a sieve, and then pound the remainder lb. at a time). When all are done, mix them with 1 lb. of sifted sugar; place them over a gentle fire, stirring it continually until the paste will flow from the spoon; then pour it into a mortar, and when it becomes lukewarm, pound it again with 1 oz. of gum dragon, previously dissolved in a glass of water and strained, the juice of 2 lemons, and 1 lb. of sifted sugar. As soon as your paste is of proper consistence, take it out and lay it on the slab, sprinkled first with sugar; divide your paste into three parts, and colour each part according to your fancy. The coloming or dyes are made of the same materials as are used for almonds, ALMOND PASTE (Coloured). Divide the above paste upon the slab for all the shades. For red, mix it with a little infusion of cochi- neal ; for yellow, saffron; green, spinach, and the other intermediate colours. ALMOND PASTE (for the Hands). See Almond Cream. ALMOND-AND-FLOUR PASTRY. Take 1 lb. of flour, f lb. of sugar, and ^ lb. of butter, a little salt, 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, with orange or rose flower water; mix all together; work it well and leave it; give it two or three turns, and cut it into leaves, stars, lozenges, shells, &c.; glaze and rasp almonds over them, and give them a moderate oven; serve, piled on dishes, or on napkins, in second courses. They may be mingled, or coloured, or strewed with flour powders, sliced almonds, citron, or cur- rants, and the powders perfumed by a drop of any of the essences, and named by them, as rose, citron, almond pastry, &c. They may also be coloured. These little entremets should be made as perfumed as possible. When musked they re- quire great management. When puddings or pasties are lined to be turned out in ornamental paste, ornaments may be made of a paste without butter, composed of flour, whites of eggs, and sugar, or the remains of any other paste, mixed with fruit, boiled rice, or the mould powdered with fine crumbs, or any of the small Italian pastes. Ornaments of this kind, which cost little and are not much trouble, give such a finish to dishes that the cook ought to practise them laily till she can execute them well. ALMOND PUDDING (Baked). Steep