[ 527 ] FRE FRI lead in it. French chalk is a mixture of fine siliceous sand and magnesia combined together. The powder of French chalk rubbed upon grease spots, a piece of paper placed on it, and pressed with a warm iron, removes them from silks and other materials they may have dis- figured. FRENCH POLISH. Shellac, H oz.; mastich, ^oz. ; sandarac, ^ oz.; rectified spirits of wine, 20 ozs. Mix them, and keep iti a gentle heat, frequently shaking the bottle until all the resins are dissolved. Apply very little ]o the furniture, and rub hard until the polish is established. FRENCH VARNISH FOR SHOES. This, called by the French cirage vernis, is made as follows :—Take 3 ozs. of logwood and 2 ozs. of nut-galls, bruise them, and boil them in 1 quart of light white wine, such as Cape, for half an hour; remove it from the fire, and add while hot 4 ozs. of gum arabic, A oz. of isinglass, and \ oz. of sulphate of iron. When the whole is thoroughly dissolved throw in a wine-glassful of best japanned ink, and \ pint of spirits of wine. This vamish should be laid on with a soft brush kept for the purpose, taking care that the boot or shoe is perfectly free from dirt. If previously blacked in the usual manner the coat of varnish laid over the blacking will give it additional lustre. As the crust accu- mulates when the varnish is used it will be necessary to sponge it off with warm water once in ten days or a fortnight. If wine is considered too expensive 2 ozs. of spirits of wine and 1 oz. of vinegar, with water to make up the quantity to a quart, may be substituted. FRENCH WOMAN COOK. A French authority observes as follows:—A really good cook ought to be that and nothing else ; all other house employment but cooking ought to be of no account to her. Being thus undisputed mistress of her entire time, she will consecrate herself to the right exercise of her important art. Always rising at daylight in winter, and at six o'clock on summer mornings, her first care is to put her kitchen in exact order, and keep everything in the most perfect state of cleanli- ness. These preliminary duties performed, she will put her broth pot on, and not fail to skim it ere she goes out to make purchases at the market. Thence returning as speedily as may be, she will begin her other preparations for dinner, the order of which will have been arranged with her employer the evening before; she will set down the entrees; she will dispose her entremets, also lard her roasts; in a word, she will put everything in proper condition to serve all up at the hour appointed, and so that evei-}-thing shall be in its place and nothing in arrear. When that hour is come she will pre- pare her broths, do up all her dishes, and dis- pose them in the order that each will appear. If she have the care of getting up the con- fectionery, &c., let her have the dessert prepared by the morning; and give, above all thiugs, her best attention to the coffee, which ought always to be carefully prepared without boiling. The tea, which is now beginning to supersede the former at some fanciful people's tables, being a simple infusion, demands not the same care, and in some sort makes itself; but both are to be provided, that all tastes may be instantly suited on demand. The dinner over, she will count the pieces of plate, clean, and lock them up; wash, or cause to be washed, the various dishes, &c.; and make out the daily bill of expenses, &c. In the evening, if such be the Custom of the family, she will reckon up with her employers, and will confer with them on the bill of fare for next day, indicating among the presented meats that are left what may appear with propriety again, either in their present shape or disguised in another, and what is to be turned over to the domestics and dependents of the house, or sold, or otherwise disposed of. It is fit and proper that, occupy- ing herself exclusively with the purchase and dressing of viands, and of attending to every- thing belonging to her kitchen, all the other household work should be done by others. Liberal wages, too, are justly due to such a one from the first, and these ought to be raised from time to time as her good qualities are brought more and more into play. She is to be treated with perfect kindness, but with no undue familiarity. She is to be made to under- stand at the same time that no dereliction of duty, no symptom of negligence, will ever be allowed to pass without remark, if not reproof. Lastly, but by no means least, let her most savoury achievements be handsomely spoken of to her advantage, for flattery is a greater moving power with women in general than interest. By such means, having chosen fit subjects to work upon, judicious masters and mistresses may even make good cooks, and keep them so. FRIAR'S BALSAM is known to medical men as tincture of benzoin. Take of benzoin powdered 3 ozs. ; balsam of Peru, 2 ozs. ; hepatic aloes in powder, \ oz.; rectified spirits of wine, 2 pints. Digest them in a gentle heat for three days, and then strain the balsam. This balsam, or rather tincture, is applied externally to heal recent wounds and bruises. It is likewise employed internally to remove coughs, asthmas, and other complaints of the breast. It is said to ease the colic, cleanse the kidneys, and to heal internal ulcers, &c. The dose is from twenty to sixty drops. This, though a medicine of some value, does