[ 81 ] BAT BAT advantages are placed within the reach of the poor to which the rich alone aspire in other countries. The number of gratuitous baths which are given at the hospitals of St. Louis and La Charite is truly prodigious; in 1822 it amounted to 127,752 for the out-patients only of the hospital of St. Louis." (Raver " On Diseases of the Skin.") Why some portion of the funds of hospitals and dispensaries in London, and other large towns, should not be applied in a similar way, we can see no good objection. There is as much philanthropy and benevolence in preventing disease as in curing it. A partial warm bath, such as the foot halh, is of much service in warding off many com- plaints. After getting the feet wet, plunging them into warm water will often prevent any ill consequences; and even when the first chill and slight shiverings which usher in colds, fevers, and other inflammatory complaints, have been felt, the disease may be cut short by the use of a foot bath, continued till free perspira- tion occurs. In inflammatory diseases, where tbe head and throat are much affected, the employment of a foot bath, at a later period, often gives great relief by causing a revulsion of the blood from the upper to the lower part of the body. Water of a temperature from 99° to the highest which can be endured is termed the hot hath. When a person in health enters such a bath, it greatly excites the nervous system, and, through that, the heart and arteries ; causes heat and constriction of the skin, with disturb- ance of the internal organs generally, but especially those of secretion. This state of uneasiness is lessened by the breaking out of perspiration, which is succeeded by great languor, torpor, and disposition to sleep. In such a bath little absorption takes place through the skin, and the body is found to have lost weight. The hot bath is a powerful stimulant, and can never be used by persons in a state of health. The same cautions which were stated under the head of the Warm Bath apply to it in a greater degree. The few cases to which it is suited ai'e chronic affections of the nervous system, such as paralysis, when all vascular fulness of the brain or spinal chord has been removed. The waters of the King's Bath, at Bath, and some of the hot baths on the Continent, are very bene- ficially employed in such cases ; but careful discrimination must be made to suit the tempera- ture to tbe degree of sensibility remaining in the paralysed part. Where the power of motion is lost, the sensation is sometimes increased. Here the hot bath would be very hurtful. On the other hand the sensation may be lost, while the power of motion remains. Here equal care must be observed not to use too high a tempera- ture. Erythema, erysipelas, mortification, ot death, may follow the use of too high a tempera ture, or a stay too prolonged even in a proper temperature. Sudden retrocession or repulsion of some cutaneous or eruptive diseases is relieved by the use of a hot bath for a few minutes, the eruption often coming out favourably after it. Some chronic cutaneous diseases, in which great thickening or torpor of the skin exists, are benefited by the hot bath. Vapour Baths are either natural or artificial. Several natural vapour-baths exist in the Nea- politan States, in Switzerland (Pfefl'ers in the country of the Grisons), and in Ischia. The artificial vapour-baths are much in use in the East and in Russia, where they are public, or intended for several persons to use at tbe same time ; and occasionally in Britain, where they are always solitary or for a single individual. The Russian baths are described in Lyall's " Character of the Russians,"p. 112—115. The bathing-room contains tiers of benches, like an amphitheatre, the seats nearest the bottom being the coolest, those higher up hotter. The temperature varies from 112° to 224°. Persons commencing the use of such baths occupy the lower seats, and ascend as they become accus- tomed to them. While exposed to the vapour the body is washed or rubbed with soap or bran, and beaten with fresh birch twigs. The head is surrounded with a cold cloth, or cold water is dashed over the head. When the person does not wish to breathe the heated vapour, a sponge which has been dipped in cold water is held to the mouth and nose. On first employing the vapour-bath the person usually remains about fifteen minutes, but afterwards three-quarters of an hour, and at Pfefl'ers, the temperature of which is only 100°, sometimes four, eight, ten or sixteen hours. After coming out c f the bath the bather goes into a room heated wi;h dry air, where he is rubbed, puts on a flannel dress, and then reposes upon a couch for some time, where he may take warm drinks to promote the perspiration. " As soon," says Dr. E. D. Clarke, " as the inhabitants of these northern nations have en- dured the high tempei'ature of their vapour- baths, which is so great that Englishmen would not conceive it possible to exist an instant in them, they stand naked, covered with profuse perspiration, cooling themselves in the open air. In summer they plunge into cold water, and in winter they roll about in the snow, without sustaining injury or even catching cold. When the Russians leave a bath of this kind, they moreover drink copious draughts of mead, as cold as it can be- procured." (" Travels in Russia," part i., p. 143.) The absence of all risk in