BEA [ 85 ] BED BEANS : To Boil (1). Boil tliem in water, with plenty of salt in it, till tender. Chop and boil parsley, put it into melted butter, and serve it as sauce. BEANS: To Boil (2). Boil in salt and water with a bunch of savory; drain, and then put them into a stewpan with 5 spoonsful of sauce tournee reduced, the yolks of 3 eggs, and a little salt. Add a piece of fresh butter, and stir it constantly' till it becomes of a proper thickness. BEARS' GREASE has been eulogised as promoting the growth of the human hair, and some has been imported from Russia for the purpose; but it arrives in a rancid state. The soft fat of the calf is said nearest to resemble it; but the whole of the fatty compound sold in this country as bears' grease is formed as follows :—Melt 3 ozs. of hogs' lard and ^ oz. of spermaceti in ^ pint of oil of sweet almonds. Strain through muslin. Add, when nearly cold, a few drops of essence of bergamot, or of any other perfume preferred. Stir until quite cold, and then put into pomatum pots, and keep closely covered. BECHAMEL. Bechamel is a white sauce, resembling batter, and derives its name from a French nobleman who either invented or patronised it. The composition is as follows : —Cut in square pieces, each half an inch thick, 2 lbs. of lean veal and i lb. of lean ham ; melt in a stewpan 2 ozs. of butter, and let the whole simmer till it is about to catch at the bottom; then add 3 table-spoonsful of flour, and, when thoroughly mixed, put in 3 pints of broth or water, pouring in a little at a time, that the thickening may be smooth, and stir it till it boils; then put the pan on the corner of the stove, or by the side of the fire, to boil gently two hours. Season it with 4 cloves, 1 onion, 12 peppercorns, 1 blade of mace, a few mush- rooms, and a bundle made of parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf. Reduce to a quart, skim off the fat, and strain the liquor through a tammy. This is the bechamel; and to make a sauce of it, add to 1 quart 1 pint of cream, and stir it till it is reduced to a good consistence ; then put in a few mushrooms to give it a flavour, and strain it as before. BECHAMEL CAKE. Boil 1 pint of cream with a few pounded sweet almonds, and a little coriander seed; then strain it. Use to it about 1 lb. of flour, 3 eggs, and about as much butter as will make it into a paste. Finish like other ; paste, and make it into cakes of any shape or "i size ycu please. BECHAMEL SAUCE. To equal parts of ■j broth and milk add an onion and a blade of ;; mace; put them into a stewpan, and let them boil ten minutes. In the meantime, ruL on a plate 1 oz. of flour and butter, put it to the liquor and stir it well till it boils up; then place it by the fire, stirring it every now and then till it becomes smooth. Next strain it through a sieve into a basin; after which return it into a pan ; season it with salt and the juice of a small lemon; beat up the yolks of 9 eggs with about 3 table-spoonsful of milk; strain this into the' sauce, stir it well again and keep it over the fire, but do not let it boil, lest it curdle. This is a good sauce for boiled fowls, especially if their colour is objectionable. BECHE DE MER is a glutinous, mollus- cous sea animal, collected on the west coast of Holland, dried, and used for making a rich soup. BED-COVERING. It is advisable, on ac- count of neatness, and, consequently, of economy, to provide bed-covers, to be laid over the beds when the rooms are being swept. The quantity of dust which settles on other articles of furni- ture will convince those who observe it that a due proportion will fall on the bed-cover; and, in the absence of this neat appendage to a housemaid's paraphernalia, on the counterpane or quilt. A half-tidy, and much more trouble- some method is sometimes adopted, that of turning the counteq)ane wrong side outwards, on the occasion of sweeping; but this is ob- jectionable, if only in consequence of the dust that must be unnecessarily communicated to the blanket. A bed-cover may be made of any light, slight material—our own is of mattress- ticking, which is cheap and preferable to any other article for the purpose. The spring is the season for taking down and putting up again those white or light-coloured bed and window-furnitures that may require to be washed. Every article should be removed from the bedsteads, which ought to be carefully attended to, thoroughly dusted, the sacking-cords braced, the sackings themselves well brushed, mattresses the same, and bedstead-screws well tightened by means of a tool styled a bed-ivinch, •which is a useful article in a family. When the clean furniture is replaced on a bedstead some sheets of large paper should be pasted together, and laid on the top (the tester) of the bed. Of whatever material the furniture may be com- posed, this will be found a useful and cleanly little arrangement, as it will not only receive all the dust that would otherwise settle on the fur- niture, but it may be carefully lifted off at any time, and the accumulated dust can be easily removed. BEDDING. A mattress filled with horse- hair is preferable to a feather bed, which heats and relaxes the body, and disposes it to pul- i