22101419666 rION KS JOHN HODGKIN, F.L.S.Med K8796EASY DISHES FOR SMALL INCOMESEASY DISHES FOR SMALL INCOMES OR The Housewife’s Guide to Practical Cookery By E. M. BUCHAN Domestic Economy Diplomas (Battersea Polytechnic), Teacher of Registered Classes under the City and Guilds of London Institute LONDON GEORGE ROUTLEDGE & SONS LIMITED New York: E. P. DUTTON & COr'yi p *4 r >(r H'.STOR'CAL medical WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welJVrQmec Call No. ■— <5TPREFACE This little book, which, claims to provide no more than is indicated by its title, is based to a large extent on material provided by Mrs. Louise E. Smith. My work has, in the main, been limited to selection and arrangement of the material placed at my disposal; though where it has seemed to me necessary or desirable, I have supplemented Mrs. Smith’s recipes by others of my own. E. M. B.CONTENTS Twenty-Four Simple Dinners A List oe Utensils necessary The Principles op Cooking . Diets ..... Invalid Cookery . Marketing and the Choice op The Management op Stoves The Cleaning op a Gas Stove Recipes ..... Index . . . . PAGE 1 5 . 8 • • • 11 . 12 Food Stuffs. . 13 * 14 . . 15 • * • • 17 • • * V 147 vHTWENTY-FOUR SIMPLE DINNERS 1 Boiled Hake and Egg Sauce Stuffed Fillet of Veal Peas Potatoes Black Currant Tart Cheese 2 Kidney Soup Minced Veal Vegetable Marrow Potatoes Pineapple Fritters 3 Boiled Mutton and Onion Sauce Carrots and Turnips Potatoes Prune Jelly Custard Cheese and Celery E.D. 4 Macaroni Soup Mutton Cutlets and Tomato Sauce Spinach Mashed Potatoes Semolina Pudding 5 Fried Plaice Beef Steak and Kidney Pie Baked Tomatoes Potatoes Lemon Pudding Cheese 6 Roast Beef and Yorkshire Pudding Boiled Cauliflowers and White Sauce Baked Potatoes Baked Custard and Stewed Fruit BTWENTY-FOUR SIMPLE DINNERS 7 10 Tomato Soup Cold Beef and Horseradish Sauce Potatoes and Salad Gingerbread Pudding Oxtail Soup Chicken Curry Cauliflower Potatoes Jam Roly 8 11 Fish Fried in Batter Scotch Collops Baked Tomatoes Baked Haddock Haricot Mutton Baked Tomatoes Potatoes Potatoes Casserole of Sweet Rice Pineapple Fritters Cheese 9 12 Roast Chicken and Boiled Celery Soup Bacon Sheep’s Tongue Kidney Beans New Potatoes Baked Rice Pudding Boiled Carrots Potatoes Eleanor’s PuddingTWENTY-FOUR SIMPLE DINNERS 3 13 Fried Sole and Potato Chips Stewed Beef Vegetable Marrow Potatoes Stuffed Apples Cheese 14 Oxtail Soup Boiled Mutton and Parsley Sauce Turnips Potatoes Chocolate Tart 15 Tomato Soup Liver and Bacon Potatoes Queen’s Pudding Cheese and Salad 16 Roast Pork and Apple Sauce Brussels Sprouts Potatoes Banana Custard 17 Boiled Sole Sweetbreads and Kidney Potatoes Almond Cheesecakes Egg Jelly 18 Scotch Broth Grilled Steak Baked Spanish Onions Potatoes Leicester PuddingTWENTY-FOUR SIMPLE DINNERS 4 19 22 Boiled Rabbit Stuffed Fillet of Veal Seakale Cauliflower Potatoes Treacle Pudding Cheese Straws. Browned Potatoes Semolina Pudding 20 23 Vegetable Soup Stewed Leg of Beef Boiled Celery and Sauce Potatoes Chocolate Mould Boiled Beef Carrots and Turnips Potatoes Lemon Sponge Cheese Straws 21 24 Boiled Cod and Egg Sauce Pig’s Fry Potatoes Sponge Cake Pudding Cold Beef Cauliflower Salad Mashed Potatoes Apricot Fritters Chocolate Custard Cheese5 A LIST OF UTENSILS NECESSARY FOR FUR- NISHING A SMALL KITCHEN s. dt 1 Baking Sheet . . . .19 1 Baking Tin . . . . 0 10 1 Baking Tin . 1 4£ 1 Basin (5| inches) . . . . 0 2£ 1 Basin (6 inches) . . . .03 1 Basin (10 inches) . . . .10^ 1 Lipped Basin (10 inches) . . 1 l£ 1 Blancmange Mould . . . 0 10 1 Box of Cutters . . . .19 1 Box for Spices . . . .20 Brushes: 1 Flue Brush . . . .12 1 Plate Brush . . . . 0 11 1 Saucepan Brush . . .0 3^ 1 Scrubbing Brush . . .13 1 set Shoe Brushes . . . .30 1 set Stove Brushes . . . .33 1 Carpet Broom . . . .23 1 Hair Broom . . . .33 Boards : 1 Knife Board . . . .14 1 Paste Board and Rolling Pin . 2 0 1 Chopping Board . . 1 11 1 Cake Tin . . . . .05 1 Colander . . . . . 0 10 1 Clothes-horse (2-fold 4 feet) . .26 1 Coal Scuttle . . . . .23 1 Coal Shovel . . . . .106 A LIST OF KITCHEN UTENSILS 8. 1 Cork Screw . .... 0 1 Dust Pan . , . . .0 Dishes : 1 Pie-dish (9 inches) . . .0 1 Pie-dish (11 inches) . . .0 1 Oval Glass Dish (8 inches) . 0 1 Oval Glass Dish (10 inches) . 0 1 Bound Glass Dish (6 inches) . 0 1 Soap Dish . . . .0 Fender . . . . .8 Fire Irons . . . . .4 3 Flat Irons . . . . .2 1 Flour Dredger . . . .0 1 Flour Tub 2 1 Fish Kettle . . . . .4 1 Fish Slice . . . . . 0 1 Gridiron . . . . .1 1 Glass Lemon Squeezer . . . 0 1 Grater . . . . . 0 1 Gravy Strainer . . . .1 1 Housemaid’s Box . . . .2 1 Jelly Mould . . . . . 1 1 Iron Stand . . . . . 0 2 Jugs (| pint, 3d. ; 2 pints, 7d.) . 0 2 Knives and Forks . . . . 1 1 Knife Tray . . . . .1 1 Leather . . . . . 0 1 Pair of Steps . . . .6 1 Papier-Mache Bowl (15 inches) . 1 1 doz. Patty Pans . . . . 0 1 Pepper Box . . . . 0 1 Preserving Pan (Enamelled Iron) . 5 1 Pestle and Mortar . . .3 1 Plate Basket . . . .2 1 Plate Rack for Scullery . . .5 1 Salt Cellar . . . . 0 Saucepans : 1 Enamelled Lipped (6 inches) . 0 d. 3 8 5 4 8* 3* 3 3 6 5 2 6 8* 6 3* H l 6 n 6 10 7 1U 6 6 H 3 1 6 9 6 9 1 87 A LIST OF KITCHEN UTENSILS s. d. 1 Iron (1 pint) . . . . 0 11 1 Iron (2 pints) . . . .12 1 Iron (4 pints) . . . .18 1 Iron (8 pints) . . . .23 1 Steamer (8 pints) . . .13 1 Stewpan . . . .23 1 Frying Pan . . . .28 1 pr. Scales, “ Family ” . . .4 11 1 Sieve (wire) 10 inches . . .0 10J 1 set Skewers . . . .04 1 Tea Canister . . . . 0 1 Tea Kettle (3 quarts) . . .31 1 Teapot . . . . . 1 0£ 1 Tea Tray . . . . .28 1 Tin Funnel . . . . 0 2£ 1 Toasting Fork . . . .01 1 Zinc Hand Bowl . . . .10 1 Zinc “Washing up ” Tin . . 2 10£ 1 Zinc Pail . . . . . 1 3£8 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING Roasting is the process of cooking before a fire. To accom- plish this successfully a clear fire is necessary, which should be made up often and not allowed to get down. Place a sheet of newspaper on the hearth under the basting-tin. Hang the meat on a “ jack ” so that the thickest part is immediately opposite the hottest part of the fire. (A skein of worsted may be substituted for a jack.) The meat should be placed close to the fire for the first ten minutes to harden the surface. In this manner the juices are retained in the joint. A metal roasting screen is useful to concentrate and radiate the heat on the joint. The joint should be dredged with a little flour, and must be well basted during the process of cooking. Time allowed for roasting : quarter of an hour for every pound and quarter of an hour over. For veal and pork allow twenty minutes to each pound and twenty minutes over. Grilling or broiling may be done over or in front of the fire. A clear fire is necessary, and the gridiron must be warmed. This method of cooking is suitable for chops and steaks, which take from ten to fifteen minutes to cook, the time varying according to the thickness of the meat. When turn- ing the meat, forks must not be used ; if steak tongs are not available, use the blade of a knife. Baking is the term applied to cooking in a closed oven. The oven should be well ventilated and very clean, or the meat will be sodden and unpalatable. A double baking tin, fitted with a grid, should be used' The meat must be weighed, wiped with a damp cloth, and placed upon the grid. The joint is placed in the hottest part of the oven from five to ten minutes to harden the surface so that the juices do not escape. Reduce the heat by pushing in the oven damper, and remove the meat to a cooler part of the oven. Baste9 THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING frequently to keep tlie joint moist, to prevent charring, and to improve the taste. Time allowed for baking : poultry, fifteen minutes to the pound and fifteen over. Beef and mutton, twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes over. Pork and veal, twenty-five minutes to the pound and twenty-five minutes over. Boiling. The meat to be boiled must be plunged into rapidly boiling water to harden the outside and retain the juices in the joint. After the first five minutes reduce the heat and simmer, allowing the same time as for baking. Salt meat must be put into warm water to extract some of the salt, brought to the boil, and then simmered. Frozen meat should hang for several hours before cooking, and a longer time allowed for boiling. For thick pieces of meat, allow five minutes extra to each pound. Fish should be placed in hot water ; if it is plunged into boiling water the extreme heat will cause it to break. A teaspoonful of lemon juice is put into the water to keep the fish a good colour. Frying. The food is cooked by immersion or contact with hot fat. Frying may be divided into two classes. (1) Shallow. The food to be cooked is placed in a frying pan, and as little fat as possible is used. This method is used for sausages, bacon and pancakes. (2) Deep. The food is immersed in hot fat—oil, dripping, clarified fat or butter are the best mediums. The food must be protected by a coating of batter, or egg and breadcrumbs. The fat is raised to a temperature of 351° F., or what is gener- ally termed “ smoking hot ” ; a blue smoke rising from the surface. A better result is obtained from this method ; the food, when cooked, has a nice even colour and is not so greasy. It is also more economical, the fat being strained and used several times. Steaming. The food to be steamed is not brought into contact with the hot water. This method should be used as far as possible when cooking for invalids, because very little of the nourishment escapes from the food. Fish, vegetables and puddings may be steamed. Stewing. Stewing is an economical and easy way of cook- ing. Small pieces of tough or sinewy meat may be madeTHE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 10 palatable, the juices being partially extracted, the tissues softened and made eatable. To stew meat successfully, the temperature should not exceed 170° F., and must never be allowed to reach boiling point. APPROXIMATE TIMES ALLOWED FOR BOILING Artichokes . Bacon (two pounds) Beetroot Cabbage Carrots (medium sized) Cauliflower Chicken Cod . Fowl French Beans Green Peas Ham Leg of Mutton Leg of Pork Parsnips Spinach Steak Pudding Tongue Soup-making Half an hour One and a half hours One and a half to three hours One hour One hour Twenty minutes Forty minutes Forty minutes One and a half hours Twenty minutes Twenty minutes Four hours Two and a half hours Three hours One hour Twenty minutes Three and a half hours . Two and a half hours The object is to obtain as much nutrition as possible from the meat and bones. Use fresh, lean, and juicy meat and soft water. Stock, made from meat and bones is used as a foundation for soups and gravies. Allow one quart of water to each pound of meat. Add a teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water to facilitate the rising of the scum. Put the meat or bones into cold water, raising the tempera- ture gradually so that the juices are extracted from the meat before coagulation takes place. Remove any scum as it rises, reduce the heat, and let the stock simmer for six or seven hours. Long and slow cooking is necessary. Use an enamelled iron saucepan with a tightly fitting lid. Stock should be made the day before it is required for use, and every particle of fat can then be removed. The stock pot must be emptied daily, and the stock be poured into anDIETS 11 earthenware vessel and the pot thoroughly cleansed. Vegetable may be added to the stock after the scum has been removed. Vegetable soups are often made without stock. For a White stock use a knuckle of veal, rabbit, calves’ foot, or fowls. For Brown stock use shin of beef or the lower part of a round of beef. DIETS The following considerations should be taken into account when constructing dietaries, namely, the age of the persons, climate and occupation. For young children meals should be regular, light and frequent, because the digestive organs are not strong. The greater percentage of the diet should consist of milk. Per- sons over forty years of age require less food, because the tissues are fully developed ; if taken in excess, the digestive organs are overloaded and cannot fulfil their functions. Per- sons engaged in manual labour require more nitrogenous food than those leading a sedentary life ; they can digest it easily, and it is needed to replace the waste in the body. 'When not engaged in active physical work the circulation is not so quick, and digestion is slower. In this case, fish and eggs should occupy a chief place in the diet. Diets should be mixed, the food palatable and digestible, so that it can be absorbed into the blood and nourish the body. Meals must be regular, and the interval between each should be long enough to allow for complete digestion in the stomach. NITROGENOUS FOODS OR CARBONACEOUS FOODS FLESH FORMERS HEAT GIVERS Meat Butter Poultry Dripping Game Suet Fish Lard Eggs Sugar Cheese Starch Flour Beans Peas Lentils Barley OatmealINVALID COOKERY 12 INVALID COOKERY Beef Tea is valuable for its stimulating properties, but it contains very little nourishment. The meat must be shredded finely to expose as much of the surface as possible to the water, in order that the soluble parts may be extracted. The beef tea must not be allowed to reach a temperature above 150° F. If it does, the albumeu becomes hard and the juices are retained in the meat. Fresh beef tea should be made daily because it is cooked at such a low temperature, and therefore will not keep good. Raw Meat Juice should be used in cases of extreme weakness, when it is needed in its most stimulating and concentrated form. To Prepare Raw Meat Juice.—To every oimce of shredded rump steak add two teaspoonfuls of cold water and a pinch ‘of salt. Place in a jar, cover with paper, and stand in a warm place for one hour. Strain through a piece of muslin, which must be twisted round the meat to extract the juices. Pour a tablespoonful into a red glass and give to the patient as often as required. Mutton Broth. Mutton broth is more digestible, but not so stimulating as beef tea. Fish may be divided into three classes, first (1) oily, (2) white, (3) shell fish. Only white fish should be given to invalids. The fat being confined to the fiver, the fish is not so rich, and therefore more easily digested. A white sauce is served with the fish to supply the deficiency in heat-giving or carbonaceous food. Preference should be given to sole, whiting and plaice because the flesh is finer and more digestible. Steam, if possible, because more nutriment is retained in the fish. Baking is more savoury, but not so digestible. Jellies are valuable as a means of conveying nourishment and stimulant. If made solely from gelatine, sugar, water and flavoured, it has hardly any food value. The jelly must contain either wine, milk or eggs. Egg jelly is a good method of preparing eggs. The albumen in the white does not become hardened or indigestible because hardly any heat is used in the cooking. Peptonized Milk is used when the digestive organs are13 MARKETING unable to perform tbeir functions. The milk is practically disgested before it is given to the patient, and is therefore more easily retained. To Peptonize Milk, warm half a pint of milk to 140°F., and stir in half a tube of Fairchild’s Peptonizer. Stand in a warm place for two hours, then boil for one or two minutes to stop the peptonizing. Peptonizing Agents should not be used for a longer time than is really necessary. If they are, the digestive organs lose their power because they have not sufficient work to perform. Milk Puddings containing cereals must be thoroughly boiled to cook the starch before the eggs are added ; after which the temperature must be lowered to prevent the eggs curdling. The usual quantity allowed is two ounces of grain to a pint of milk and one or two eggs. Custards, if properly cooked and not allowed to boil, are extremely nourishing as they are prepared from two perfect foods, milk and eggs. Green Vegetables are important as blood purifiers, but they should not be given in cases of weak digestion. They stimulate the movement of the intestine, and are therefore good in cases of constipation. Potatoes. If potatoes are given to invalids they should be pressed through a masher, because they are more easily digested if finely divided. Tea stimulates the nerves, but if taken in excess causes constipation and dyspepsia. After boiling water has been poured on the tea, it should only stand for a few minutes. The tannin which is extracted in excess if the tea is allowed to stand indefinitely, forms a coating round the food, so that the digestive juices cannot penetrate and perform their functions. MARKETING AND THE CHOICE OF FOOD STUFFS Ascertain the amount of money to be spent on housekeeping and do not exceed this limit. As far as possible market with ready money. Pay the bills weekly, if possible, and do not let them under any circumstances run for more than a monthMANAGEMENT OF STOVES 14 Do not buy inferior goods, as this is false economy. Make a list of the articles required in the kitchen for the next day’s work, and order what is necessary in good time. Before purchasing, inquire the price of the goods and take every pains to judge the quality of food stuffs. Mutton and Beef should be firm, well flavoured, economical in cooking, and the colour bright and uniform. To ascertain whether fish is fresh, the gills should be red and the eyes bright, the flesh stiff and rigid, the skin smooth and not blistered, but closely adhering to the flesh. Salmon, Cod and large white fish should have a bronze tint when freshly cut. Poultry must be young and in good condition. Fowls should have soft feet and necks, the spur hardly formed, the breastbone must not be broken, and it should be soft and resemble gristle. Apples, cheese, flour, oatmeal, onions, potatoes, salt, soap, sugar and tea can be purchased more economically in large quantities, but if the storing space is limited, this must not be attempted. Salt should be cut into small blocks and wrapped in paper. Cut the bars of soap into pieces with string and store in a dry cupboard. Tea must be kept in a canister. Potatoes should be spread out on a cellar floor and covered with a piece of sacking. To store Onions, tie the stalks together and hang them from a nail. Flour must be kept in a wooden bin with an air-tight lid. THE MANAGEMENT OF STOVES To Clean a Kitchen Range Rake out all the cinders and dust from the fireplace. Sift the cinders and remove the ashes. 1. Remove the doors from the flues, and the rings on the ovens. 2. Sweep the flues with a flue brush. Remove the long narrow door at the bottom of the oven and scrape out all the soot.15 THE CLEANING OF A GAS STOVE 3. Sweep any dust out of the ovens. Replace the rings and the flue and soot doors. 4. Mix some powdered blacklead in a gallipot to a smooth paste with cold water. Dip a blacklead brush into the paste and brush all over the stove. 5. When the blacklead is dry, brush the stove over and polish with a second brush. 6. Blacklead and polish the bars of the grate in the same manner. To Clean the Steel Parts 1. Rub with medium sized emery paper, or rub first with oil and then polish with grated bath brick. Polish any brass with “ Globe ” or “ Bluebell ” polish. Lay the fire and then clean the hearth with hot soda water and rub with hearth stone. Blacklead the fender inside, and clean the steel parts and the fire irons with emery paper. THE CLEANING OF A GAS STOVE 1. Take the shelves out of the oven. 2. Wash the enamelled sides with hot water and soda. 3. Remove the steel bars from the top of the stove, and scrape if necessary. 4. Wash the stove with hot water and soda. 5. Blacklead and polish the iron parts, clean the steel bars with emery paper and replace them. 6. Use “ Globe ” or “ Bluebell ” polish to clean the brass taps and fittings. 7. Wash the tiles and hot-plate with hot water and soda, and dry with a clean cloth. 8. Wash the tin inside the oven, and clean with Brook’s soap. 9. Clean the hearthstone. To Clean an Iron Saucepan 1. Wash inside and out with hot water and soda, using a saucepan brush and a dish cloth. 2. Empty the water out and scrub with silver sand and soap. 3. Rinse in plenty of water, and wipe first inside and then outside with a dishcloth wrung out of hot water.THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 16 4. Clean the lid with Brook’s soap, and polish with powdered whitening. Saucepans must not be put away with the lids on, but turned upside down on a shelf, and in such a way that the air can get inside the pan. Remove the stains from enamelled pans with salt. To Clean a Pastry Board 1. Dip a dishcloth into a bowl of hot water and wet the board all over. 2. Sprinkle a little silver sand on the board and scrub well with the grain, turn over and repeat the process. 3. Rinse well with plenty of water. 4. Rub with a cloth and stand in a current of air to dry. To keep the boards white do not use soda in the water or place near the fire to dry. To Clean Knives. Stand the blades only in a jug of hot water, rub each knife with a damp dishcloth and dry with a knife cloth. Sprinkle a little patent powder or bath brick on to a knife board, and rub the blade of the knife backwards and forwards on the board until it is quite bright and all the stains have disappeared. Each knife must be dusted before it is put into the knife box. To Clean a Baking Tin. If necessary, scrape the tin with an old knife. Scrub with silver sand and soap, finish cleaning with Brook’s soap and polish with powdered whitening. To Wash a Pudding Cloth. Scrape with the back of a knife, and steep in a bowl of hot water and soda for half an hour. Wash thoroughly, but do not use soap. Rinse in two or three waters, dry out of doors. Roll up and tie round with a piece of string.SOUPS BROWN STOCK Ingredients : Three pennyworth of Bones One pound of Shin of Beef Three quarts of Water One Turnip One Carrot One Onion Salt and Pepper One ounce of Dripping. 1. Put the bones into a large saucepan and add the meat cut up into small pieces. 2. Add the water, bring to a boil, skim and simmer for two hours. 3. Prepare the vegetables, cut into dice, and then fry in the fat. 4. Add the vegetables to the stock and simmer for another hour. 5. Strain the stock through a sieve into a large bowl. 6. Before using remove the fat which rises to the surface. CAULIFLOWER SOUP Ingredients : Three Cauliflowers Two Onions One Head of Celery Half a Cucumber One teacupful of French Beans Two ounces of Butter Two quarts of Water Two tablespoonfuls of Curry Powder. E.D.SOUPS 18 1. Slice the cauliflowers, onions, celery and beans. 2. Melt the butter in a saucepan and fry the vegetables. Stir in the curry powder. 3. Pour the water on to the vegetables and stew for three hours. 4. Pass the whole through a sieve and serve in a hot tureen. CELERY SOUP Ingredients : Three Heads of Celery One pint of Stock One Carrot One Onion Two quarts of Water Two lumps of Sugar One teaspoonful of Salt Yolks of two Eggs One pint of Milk or Cream. 1. Cut the celery into pieces and wash in plenty of cold water. 2. Put the water into a large pan and throw in the celery, add the sugar, carrot, onion and a little grated nutmeg. 3. Boil until the vegetables are tender. 4. Strain off the liquid but do not throw it away. 5. Rub the vegetables through a sieve, add the pint of stock, and half a pint of the celery liquor as flavouring. 6. Stir in the milk or cream and the yolks of the eggs well beaten. 7. Make the soup thoroughly hot, but on no account must it be allowed to boil after the milk and eggs have been added. 8. Serve very hot in a tureen. GREEN PEA SOUP Ingredients : Half a peck of Green Peas Three pints of Stock Two Carrots Two Turnips Two Onions Bunch of Parsley.19 SOUPS 1. Shell the peas and wash in cold water with a lump of salt. 2. Put the stock into a saucepan and add the parsley, carrot, turnip and onion. 3. Boil for three quarters of an hour and then strain the stock into a clean saucepan. 4. Add the peas and a sprig of mint. 5. When the peas are cooked, rub the contents of the pan through a sieve. 6. Serve very hot with toast. KIDNEY SOUP Ingredients : Three pennyworth of Bones Two Onions Two Carrots One Parsnip Three Leeks Bunch of Parsley Four Sheep’s Kidneys. 1. Put the bones in a large saucepan and cover with water 2. Add the parsley, and the vegetables washed and cut up. 3. Boil for two hours, strain through a sieve and remove the fat. 4. Thicken with half an ounce of butter, rolled in a dessert- spoonful of cornflour. 5. After the bones have boiled for one hour, take some of the stock and stew the kidneys in a small pan. 6. Pass the kidneys through a wire sieve, using the back of a wooden spoon. 7. Add the strained stock and serve in a hot tureen. LENTIL SOUP Ingredients : One teacupful of Lentils which must be soaked overnight One Turnip One Carrot Two Onions Bunch of Herbs Two quarts of Stock One ounce of Butter or Dripping Salt and Pepper.SOUPS 20 1. Put the lentils into a strainer and wash well with plenty of cold water. 2. Melt the fat in a saucepan and fry, the prepared vegetables cut into dice, lightly. 3. Add the lentils and the stock or water, bring to a boil, skim well and simmer until the lentils are tender. 4. Strain into a hot tureen and rub the lentils and vegetables into the soup through a sieve. 5. Add one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. MACARONI SOUP Ingredients : Half a pound of Macaroni Two quarts of White Stock One pint of Cream or Milk A little Cayenne Pepper Quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan Cheese. 1. Boil the macaroni in the stock for one and a half hours until tender. 2. Pour on to a sieve and rub the macaroni through. 3. Return to the saucepan, add the cheese, cayenne and salt to taste. 4. Make the soup very hot and serve with sippets of toast. MUTTON BROTH Ingredients : Two pounds of Neck of Mutton One Onion One small Carrot One Turnip One bunch of Parsley One teacupful of Scotch Barley Five quarts of Water. 1. Cut the mutton into pieces, removing most of the fat, place in a saucepan with the cold water, bring to a boil and skim. 2. Prepare the vegetables, wash the barley and throw into the broth. 3. Simmer for two or three hours, season with pepper and salt and pour into a hot tureen. N.B.—If possible the broth should be made the day before it is used so that the fat may be easily removed.SOUPS 21 OXTAIL SOUP Ingredients : Two jointed Oxtails Three quarts of Water One Carrot One Turnip One Onion One head of Celery Bunch of Herbs Eight Cloves Blade of Mace Cayenne Pepper Three ounces of Butter. 1. Soak the oxtails in warm water for one hour. 2. Cut the tails into pieces and fry in one ounce of butter. 3. Add the water, herbs and the prepared vegetables. 4. Simmer for two hours, skimming continually. 5. Add the seasoning, remove the meat from the bones and cut into small pieces. 6. Strain the soup through a sieve and add the meat. 7. Put two ounces of butter into a pan and when melted stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour and brown over the fire. Pour the soup gradually on to the flour and bring to a boil. 8. Serve with toast cut into dice. PEA SOUP Ingredients : One pint of split Peas Three pints of Stock Two Turnips Two Onions Two Carrots Pepper and Salt. 1. Soak the peas overnight in cold water. 2. Strain away the water and simmer the peas in the stock for two and a half hours, skim well. 3. Add the vegetables which have been washed and cut up.SOUPS 22 4. Cook until tender and then pass through a sieve or colander. 5. Put a piece of toast in a hot tureen and pour the soup over. POTATO SOUP Ingredients : One and a half pounds of Peeled Potatoes One quart of Water or Stock Half a pint of Milk One ounce of Butter One Onion Bunch of Herbs One tablespoonful of crushed Tapioca Pepper and Salt. 1. Wash, peel and slice the potatoes. 2. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the potatoes and stir well for three minutes. 3. Add the stock, crushed tapioca and the herbs tied in a piece of muslin. 4. Season with pepper and salt and boil for twenty-five minutes. 5. Pass through a sieve, add the milk and make the soup very hot but do not allow it to boil. 6. Serve at once in a tureen. SCOTCH BROTH Ingredients : Three pennyworth of Bones Six small Mutton Chops Three Carrots Three Turnips Two Leeks Half a head of Celery One teacupful of Barley 1. Put the bones into a large saucepan, cover with cold water, boil well and skim occasionally. 2. Clean the carrots, turnips, leeks and celery, cut each into two and throw into the broth.SOUPS 23 3. Boil for two hours, remove the vegetables and pour the broth through a sieve. 4. Cut the vegetables into dice, wash and scald the barley, place in a saucepan with the broth and boil for twenty minutes. 5. Add the chops which must be freed from fat and simmer for thirty minutes. 6. Remove the bones from the chops and cut the meat into dice. 7. Place the meat and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley into a hot tureen and pour the boiling broth over. SHEEP’S HEAD BROTH Ingredients : One Sheep’s Head Five quarts of Water Half a pound of Pearl Barley Two Turnips Two Carrots Two Onions Pepper and Salt. 1. Soak the head in cold water overnight. 2. Dry the head and place in a large saucepan, cover with the cold water. 3. Add the barley and stew for one hour, removing the scum. 4. Prepare the vegetables, add to the broth and simmer for three hours. 5. Remove the head and skim the fat from the broth. 6. Serve the broth in a tureen and the head on a flat dish, garnished with the carrots and turnips, TOMATO SOUP Ingredients : Two pounds of Tomatoes One ounce of Butter Two ounces of Crushed Tapioca One Onion One quart of Stock Pepper and Salt.24 SOUPS 1. Slice the tomatoes and peel and slice the onions. 2. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and the tomatoes and onions, and cook slowly until tender. 3. Add the stock, bring to a boil, season and pass all through a sieve. 4. Return to the pan, add the tapioca and boil until clear. 5. Serve very hot in a tureen. VEGETABLE SOUP Ingredients : Two quarts of Water in which meat has been boiled Four Carrots Four Onions Four Potatoes Four Turnips One Parsnip One ounce of Dripping Bunch of Parsley One teacupful of Barley or Rice. 1. Wash and cut up the vegetables. 2. Melt the fat in a saucepan and fry the vegetables. 3. Pour the stock in gradually, bring to a boil and skim. 4. Add the rice or barley and boil slowly for two hours. 5. Strain the soup and rub the vegetables through a sieve. 6. Season with pepper and salt and if liked add a little cream or the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. 7. Make the soup very hot but do not boil. Put a slice of toasted brown bread in a hot tureen and pour the soup over. N.B.—Celery—salt, mushroom ketchup or Yorkshire Relish might be added to the soup and would give a pleasant flavour. WHITE STOCK Ingredients : Two pounds of Knuckle of Veal or lean Neck of Mutton Two quarts of Cold Water One CarrotSOUPS 25 One Turnip One Onion Bunch of Herbs Three Cloves Eight Peppercorns One blade of Mace Salt and Pepper. 1. Cut up the veal, chop the bone and place in a large saucepan. 2. Add the water, bring to a boil and skim ; boil for three hours. 3. Prepare the vegetables, add to the soup with the spices and herbs, simmer for two hours. 4. Strain the stock through a sieve.FISH BAKED STUFFED HADDOCK Ingredients : One fresh Haddock Three tablespoonfuls of Bread Crumbs One teaspoonful of chopped Lemon Rind One teaspoonful of Salt Half a teaspoonful of Pepper One ounce of Butter Yolk of one Egg. 1. Wash and dry the haddock. 2. Make a stuffing of the bread crumbs, lemon peel, butter, salt and pepper, using the yolk of the egg to bind them together. 3. Fill the haddock with the stuffing and sew the fish up with a needle and cotton. 4. Place the fish in a baking tin with two ounces of dripping. Brush over with milk and sprinkle with bread crumbs. 5. Bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 6. Serve on a hot dish with a brown sauce. BOILED DRIED HADDOCK 1. Cover the haddock with boiling water for a few minutes. 2. Place the fish in a baking tin and pour over one gill of milk and one gill of water. 3. Lay a few small pieces of butter on the fish and dust with pepper. 4. Cook in a hot oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 5. Serve on a hot dish and strain a little of the hot milk on the fish. N.B.—A better method of cooking a dried haddock, is to 26 l27 FISH warm the fish slightly, cut it in half lengthwise, cut off the tail, and then skin the fish starting from the shoulders downwards. Cook in the same manner. BOILED FISH To Boil Cod, Halibut, Haddock, Mackerel and Sole, place in a fish kettle, and add sufficient hot water to cover the fish, and two tablespoonfuls of salt. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat and simmer until the fish is cooked, removing the scum as it rises. Salmon must be put into boiling water. Time Allowed for Cooking.—When the water reaches boil- ing point allow for : Cod’s head and shoulders, about thirty minutes. Three pounds of Halibut, about thirty minutes Three pounds of Haddock, about twenty minutes. Mackerel, about twenty minutes. Sole, from five to ten minutes. Salmon, fifteen minutes to each pound, and fifteen minutes over. BOILED SOLE Ingredients : One thick Sole Lemon Parsley Two tablespoonfuls of Salt Anchovy or Shrimp Sauce. 1. Wash and then dry the fish in a clean cloth. 2. Place in a fish kettle, pour on sufficient cold water to cover the fish, and add the salt. 3. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat and simmer from five to ten minutes, according to the size of the fish. Remove the scum carefully. 4. Serve on a folded napkin with the white side of the sole uppermost. 5. Garnish with sliced lemon and sprigs of parsley.FISH 28 FISH CAKES Ingredients : Equal quantities of Fish, and Potatoes One Egg to every half pound of Fish One dessertspoonful of chopped Parsley A little grated Lemon Rind Pepper and Salt. 1. Remove the skin and bones from the cold fish and break it into small pieces with a fork. 2. Mash the potatoes. 3. Mix the fish, potatoes, parsley, seasoning and lemon rind together with the well-beaten egg. 4. Flour the hands and form the mixture into balls about the size of an orange. 5. With two knives form into a cake similar in shape to a quarter of a pound round of butter. 6. Brush over carefully with egg, then dip into the bread crumbs. 7. Fry in sufficient boiling fat to cover the cakes. 8. When a golden brown, drain on soft paper and serve hot. N.B.—The fat must be boiling ; a blue smoke rising from the surface, and it must not bubble. FISH FRIED IN BATTER Ingredients : Two or three Cod Steaks Four ounces of Flour One gill of Milk One Egg. 1. Wash and wipe the fish, and either cut the steaks into neat pieces, or fry them whole. 2. Put the flour in the basin and make a hole in the centre. 3. Beat the egg and add the milk. 4. Pour the egg and milk gradually into the centre of the flour, using a wooden spoon and making a smooth batter. 5. Dip the fish into the batter and then plunge into boiling fat. 6. Fry a nice golden brown, drain on soft paper and serve very hot with melted butter. Garnish with parsley.FISH 29 FISH PIE Ingredients : Cooked Fish Cooked Potatoes Half a pint of White Sauce Pepper and Salt. 1. Grease a pie dish and into it put any remains of cold white fish, freed from the skin and bones. 2. Pour the sauce over the fish and season with pepper and salt. 3. Mash the potatoes and spread them neatly over the fish. Place a few small lumps of butter on the top. 4. Bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes and serve hot, FISH AND POTATO MOULD Ingredients : Equal quantities of cooked White Fish and cold Potatoes Two or three ounces of Butter Salt and Pepper to taste. 1. Flake the fish and remove the skin and bones. 2. Mash the potatoes and melt the butter. 3. Pound the fish, potatoes and butter together until quite smooth. 4. Add the seasoning and press the mixture into a mould. 5. Turn the shape out on to a dish, and place it in a Dutch oven before the fire. 6. Brown on both sides. Time allowed : about quarter of an hour 7. Serve very hot. FLAKED COD Ingredients : One pound of Cold Fish One ounce of Butter One ounce of Flour Half a pint of Milk One pint of Shrimps Lemon Parsley Pepper and Salt.FISH 30 1. Melt the butter in an enamelled pan. 2. Remove from the fire and with a wooden spoon stir in the flour. 3. Add the milk gradually, replace on the fire and bring to a boil, stirring all the time. 4. Flake the cod, pick the shrimps and stir both into the sauce. 5. Add the seasoning and make the fisb thoroughly hot. 6. Pour on to a hot dish and garnish with lemon and parsley. FRESH HERRINGS BAKED 1. Wash the herrings carefully and then wipe quite dry. 2. Place on a hot baking tin, dust lightly with pepper and a little nutmeg. 3. Put a small piece of butter on each herring. 4. Cook in a hot oven until nicely browned. 5. Serve on a hot dish. Garnish with lemons cut into halves and parsley. FRIED PLAICE Ingredients : One Plaice Filleted One Egg Bread Crumbs Fat for frying Lemon Parsley 1. Wash and wipe the fish. 2. Beat the egg on a plate. 3. Rub the bread through a sieve on to a sheet of paper. 4. Dip the fish first into the egg, and then into the bread crumbs 5. Fry, in sufficient boiling fat to cover the fillets, until they are a golden brown. 6. Drain upon soft paper. 7. Place on ornamental paper on a hot dish, arrange the fish on it and garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 8. Serve with shrimp or anchovy sauce.FISH 31 FRIED SOLE 1. Wash and then dry the fish in a cloth. 2. Dip into flour and wipe it off with a clean cloth. 3. Brush the fish over with egg and then dip into bread crumbs. 4. Plunge into a frying pan half full of boiling fat. Turn in five minutes and fry on the other side. 5. Place on soft paper in front of fire to drain. 6. Serve on a hot dish and garnish with parsley. Send to table with melted butter. N.B.—Plaice may be cooked in the same way, KEDGEREE Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Rice Half a pound of Cooked Fish One Egg One ounce of Butter One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley, 1. Boil the rice and then drain on a sieve. 2. Boil the egg for ten minutes and put into cold water. 3. Remove the skin and bones from the fish. 4. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the fish, rice, and white of egg cut into dice. Season with pepper and salt. 5. When thoroughly hot, pile in the centre of a dish and gar- nish with chopped parsley and the yolk of the egg, rubbed through a sieve. 6. Serve very hot. POTTED HERRINGS Ingredients : Six Herrings Two ounces of Butter Salt Nutmeg Mace Cayenne. 1. Clean the herrings and place in a pie dish with a little butter. 2. Bake in a moderate oven. 3. When cold, remove the skin and bones from the fish.32 FISH 4. Pound in a mortar and add two ounces of creamed butter. 5. Season with salt, grated nutmeg, ground mace and cayenne. 6. Mix thoroughly making the whole into a paste and press into small pots. 7. Cover the top with a coating of melted butter, or sweet mutton dripping, and tie down with paper. SOUSED MACKEREL Ingredients : Four Mackerel One ounce of Spice One and a half pints of Vinegar Two lumps of Sugar. 1. Clean, wash and bone the mackerel. 2. Place side by side in a shallow pie dish. 3. Warm a gill of the vinegar, add the sugar and spice and pour over the fish. 4. Pour over the rest of the vinegar and cook in a moderate oven for one hour. 5. Serve cold. TO COOK SPRATS 1. Wipe six sprats with a clean cloth. 2. Place them side by side on a buttered tin and dust lightly with flour, pepper and salt. 3. Cook in a hot oven from ten to fifteen minutes. 4. Serve with thinly cut bread and butter, lemon and cayenne.VEGETABLES BAKED SPANISH ONIONS 1. Cut off the root and peel away the skin. 2. Boil in salted water for one hour. 3. Drain, and place on a baking tin, wrapping each onion in a sheet of buttered paper. 4. Bake for one and a half hours and serve with or without gravy. BAKED TOMATOES 1. Remove the stalks, and make a small hole in the top of each tomato. 2. Put a piece of butter in the hole and place the tomatoes on a baking tin. 3. Bake in a moderate oven from twenty to thirty minutes. 4. Serve very hot. BOILED CABBAGE 1. Cut off the stalks, remove the decayed leaves, and divide the cabbage into four. 2. Place in a large vessel, and cover with plenty of salted water for one or two hours. 3. Drain and throw into a pan of boiling water with one table- spoonful of salt. 4. Boil for three quarters of an hour, then boil in a second water for half an hour. Drain in a colander and serve hot. BOILED CARROTS 1. Wash and brush the carrots well. 2. If large, cut lengthwise into quarters. E.D. D34 VEGETABLES 3. Throw into boiling water, add a little salt and boil until tender : half to one and a half hours according to size and age. 4. Rub off the skin, and serve with good melted butter. BOILED CAULIFLOWERS 1. Choose medium sized cauliflowers and as white as possible. Cut away the outer leaves, and trim off the tops of the inner. Soak in plenty of cold water for one hour, adding one tablespoonful of salt to the water. 2. Stick three kitchen forks into the stalk of the cauliflower, and place in a pan of boiling water, the head of the flower downwards. Add a tablespoonful of salt. Boil from fifteen to twenty minutes. Drain and serve whole with melted butter. N.B.—The forks should rest on the edges of the pan, and are used to support the cauliflower and to facilitate the taking up and draining. BOILED HARICOT BEAN5 1. Soak a pint of beans in cold water overnight. 2. Strain, throw into a pan of cold water, bring to a boil and simmer for three hours. 3. Strain, then add an ounce of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. 4. Serve in a hot vegetable dish, BOILED LETTUCE Ingredients : Two or three Lettuces One ounce of Butter One teaspoonful of Sugar Pepper and Salt. One pint of Stock One dessertspoonful of chopped Parsley One tablespoonful of Flour. 1. Well wash and trim the lettuces, cutting away the roots. 2. Throw into boiling water for one or two minutes, and then throw into cold water,VEGETABLES 35 3. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the sugar, pepper, salt and lettuces. 4. Pour the stock into the pan and boil for thirty minutes until the lettuces are tender. 5. Put the lettuces in a hot dish, thicken the gravy with flour and add the chopped parsley. Pour the gravy over and serve at once. BOILED MARROW 1. Place a young vegetable marrow with the skin on in a pan of boiling water. 2. Boil from twenty to thirty minutes. 3. Pare the marrow and cut into half lengthwise. 4. Serve on toast, pour melted butter over and keep the mar- row very hot. BOILED PEAS 1. Shell the peas. 2. Prepare a pan of boiling water and allow one dessertspoonful of salt to every quart of water. 3. Throw the peas into the water, add a sprig of mint and boil for twenty minutes. 4. Strain through a sieve or colander, serve at once in a hot dish and place a small piece of butter in the centre of the dish. N.B.—If the peas are old add one teaspoonful of sugar to the water. BOILED POTATOES 1. Choose potatoes that are nearly equal in size. Wash and peel thinly, removing the eyes. 2. Throw into cold water and leave for one hour. 3. Place in a pan of boiling water and add one tablespoonful of salt. 4. Boil quickly for ten minutes, and then simmer for ten. Test with a fork to see if they are tender. 5. Drain and place the pan on the stove, but not over the fire, Shake gently and serve on a hot dish.36 VEGETABLES TO MASH POTATOES 1. Add one ounce of butter, two or three tablespoonfuls of milk, pepper and salt to taste. 2. Beat lightly with a fork or wooden spoon until the potatoes are quite smooth, and stir for a few minutes over the fire before serving. BOILED SEAKALE 1. Wash, trim, and tie the seakale into bundles. 2. Boil in plenty of water for half an hour. 3. Strain away the water and simmer in milk from ten to fifteen minutes. 4. Serve on toast with melted butter. BOILED TURNIPS AND WHITE SAUCE 1. Peel the turnips thickly, and if large cut in half. 2. Place in a pan of boiling water, add a tablespoonful of salt and a small piece of butter. 3. Boil from twenty minutes to one hour, according to size and age. Strain when tender. 4. Prepare half a pint of melted butter, add the turnips and simmer for five minutes. 5. Pour into a hot vegetable dish and serve at once. CARROTS AND POACHED EGGS Ingredients : Five or six Carrots (medium size and equal in length) One pint of Stock One teaspoonful of Sugar One tablespoonful of Chopped Parsley Two ounces of butter Three or four Eggs. 1. Wash, scrape and cut the carrots into quarters. 2. Melt an ounce of butter in a stewpan and fry the carrots lightly. 3. Cover with white stock, add a teaspoonful of salt, and the same amount of sugar, and stew the carrots until tender.VEGETABLES 37 4. Add the chopped parsley and a lump of butter which must be well rubbed in flour to thicken the stock. 5. Serve on a flat dish in the form of a wheel, and place the poached eggs in the centre. Serve the sauce in a tureen. FRIED POTATOES 1. Wash, peel, and shoe the required number of potatoes. 2. Melt the fat in a pan and when it is hot, throw the potatoes in and cook for ten minutes. 3. Drain, reheat the fat to boiling point. Put the potatoes in again and fry until they are a golden brown. 4. Drain on paper and serve very hot. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES Wash well in cold water ; pare thinly and shape into ovals Throw into a pan of warm water to which salt has been added. To make the artichokes look white add a third part of milk to the water. Boil from twenty to twenty- five minutes, according to the size. Drain, and serve at once with thick melted butter. MUSHROOMS IN BATTER Ingredients : Six or eight medium sized Mushrooms One large Rasher of Bacon Two Eggs • Half a pint of Milk One teaspoonful of Flour Breadcrumbs. 1. Make a batter with the well-beaten eggs, flour and milk. Season with salt. 2. Pour into a buttered tin and place in a quick oven. 3. Skin the mushrooms and cut the stalks. 4. Mince the bacon and fill the mushrooms with the mince. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs and brush over with egg. 5. When the batter is set place the mushrooms on top and cook until they are done. 6. Serve very hot. Place the tin on a flat dish and hide the tin with a border of parsley.VEGETABLES 38 MUSHROOMS AND GRAVY Ingredients : One dozen Mushrooms Two ounces of Butter One gill of Gravy Hot buttered Toast Watercress. 1. Skin the mushrooms and scrape the stalks. 2. Cut the stalk off almost level with the mushroom. 3. Place half an ounce of butter in a frying pan and lay the mushrooms in with the underside uppermost. 4. Put a small piece of butter into each and turn the mush- rooms occasionally. 5. When cooked add the gravy. 6. Cut the toast into squares and place on a hot dish. Pour the boiling mushrooms over and garnish with tufts of watercress. PUREE OF GREEN PEAS Ingredients : One and a half pints of shelled Green Peas Two ounces of Butter One dessertspoonful of Castor Sugar A few sprigs of Parsley A few Chives. 1. Put the peas, butter, sugar, parsley and chives into a saucepan. Stew thoroughly. 2. Rub through a sieve and return to the pan with sufficient white broth to make a very thick soup. Simmer slowly. 3. Serve with fried bread cut into dice. N.B.—Peas will lose colour if allowed to boil after the broth has been added. SPINACH 1. Take some freshly gathered spinach and pick the leaves from the stalk. 2. Wash in two or three waters and drain on a sieve. 3. Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan. Throw in the spinach and stir over a clear fire for five minutes.VEGETABLES 39 4. Cook until tender. Drain and serve on toast with or without poached eggs. STEWED ARTICHOKES 1. Wash, peel, and parboil the artichokes. 2. Make a pint of thick gravy hot in a stewpan and add the artichokes. 3. Stew for twenty minutes. 4. Serve hot, garnished with sippets of toast. STEWED CELERY 1. Wash two or three heads of celery well and cut off the outer leaves. 2. Throw into a pan of boiling water to which add a lump of sugar, salt to taste, and a slice of lemon. 3. Simmer until tender. Drain. 4. Serve in a hot dish and pour over half a pint of good brown gravy or half a pint of white sauce. STEWED CUCUMBER 1. Peel and cut the cucumbers into quarters lengthwise and remove the seeds. 2. Place in a stewpan and cover with a pint of gravy or stock. 3. Simmer about half an hour or until tender. Season with pepper and salt. 4. Thicken the gravy and pour into a hot vegetable dish with the cucumbers. VEGETABLE CURRY Ingredients : Eight new Potatoes One pint of Gravy Three Onions A bunch of Parsley One small Lettuce Six Radishes A few slices of Cucumber One teaspoonful of Bombay CurryVEGETABLES 40 One tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup One teacupful of Boiled Green Peas, Butter for frying. 1. Scrape, wash and cut the potatoes into blocks and fry until a golden brown. 2. Put the potatoes in a stewpan with the gravy. Add the sliced onions, chopped parsley, washed and broken lettuce, cucumber and radishes. 3. Simmer until tender. Season with pepper, salt and grated nutmeg and stir in the curry and ketchup. 4. Dredge in a little flour and add the boiled peas. 5. Serve very hot. VEGETABLE MARROW AND EGGS Ingredients : One small Marrow Four or five Eggs A large piece of Toast Two or three ounces of Butter Parmesan Cheese. 1. Cut and toast a piece of bread the size of the dish. 2. Boil a young marrow, cut each half into four pieces and place them on the toast. 3. Beat up four or five eggs and put them into a saucepan with the butter. 4. Season with pepper and salt and stir quickly over a clear fire until the eggs thicken. Do not allow it to boil. 5. Lay the eggs on the marrow, and grate a little cheese over each portion. 6. Serve very hot. VEGETARIAN DISH Ingredients : Half a pint of Kidney Beans Two Carrots Two Turnips One Onion One head of Celery One pint of Milk41 VEGETABLES Half a dozen Mushrooms Pepper and Salt Juice of Lemon Mashed Potatoes. 1. Wash, slice, scald and blanch the vegetables. 2. Place in a stewpan and stew in milk until quite tender. 3. Turn into a pie dish, season with pepper and salt. 4. Skin and blanch the mushrooms, lay them on top of the vegetables and sprinkle a little chopped parsley over, and the juice of a lemon. 5. Place some small pieces of butter on the top and cover with mashed potatoes. Brown in a hot oven, 6. Serve hot with a tureen of melted butter.42 MEATS BEEF STEAK AND KIDNEY PIE Ingredients : One and a half pounds of Beef Skirting Quarter of a pound of Bullock’s Kidney One tablespoonful of Flour One teaspoonful of Salt Half a teaspoonful of Pepper Cold Water Three quarters of a pound of Flaky Pastry. 1. Make the pastry according to the recipe given under that heading ; place it on one side to cool for an hour. 2. Cut the meat into strips and then into thin shoes and the kidney into dice-shaped pieces. 3. Mix the flour, pepper and salt on a plate. 4. Dip each slice of meat into the flour and seasoning, put a piece of kidney and a small piece of fat on the meat, roll up and place in a pie dish. 5. Pour in a gill and a half of cold water. 6. Put a strip of paste round the edge of the dish, cover with a lid of the pastry and make a hole in the top and orna- ment with leaves. 7. Bake in a hot oven for half an hour, reduce the heat and cook for one and a half hours longer. BEEF STEAK PUDDING Ingredients : Two pounds of Steak Eight ounces of Suet One pound of FlourMEATS 43 Two ounces of Kidney One Onion Parsley Pepper and Salt. 1. Chop the suet and add to the flour with a pinch of salt. 2. Mix with sufficient cold water to make a fight paste, cut off one quarter for the fid. 3. Roll out on a floured board and fine a greased basin with the paste. 4. Cut the steak into thin slices, dip into the flour, which has been seasoned with pepper and salt. 5. Roll a small piece of kidney in each slice of meat and place in the basin. 6. Sprinkle over the meat a finely chopped onion and a little parsley. 7. Pour in half a teacupful of stock or water. 8. Cover with a fid of suet pastry, and then with a cloth wrung out of cold water. Tie round with a string. 9. Place in boiling water and boil for three hours. BOILED BACON 1. Soak three or three and a half pounds of bacon in warm water for an hour or two. 2. Place in a large saucepan with plenty of cold water. 3. Put it on the fire, heat gradually, skimming off any fat as it rises to the surface. 4. Allow about forty or forty-five minutes to each pound of bacon. 5. When cooked, remove from the pan, peel off the skin and cover with grated bread crumbs, BOILED BEEF Ingredients : Five or six pounds of brisket of Beef One tablespoonful of Salt One tablespoonful of Allspice Two Onions Two Turnips Two CarrotsMEATS 44 One ounce of Butter Two tablespoonfuls of Flour One quart of Gravy One tablespoonful of Ketchup Pepper and Salt. 1. Boil the beef gently, in sufficient water to cover it, for five or six hours. 2. Add the salt, allspice and the vegetables. 3. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. 4. Pour the gravy gradually into the stewpan, add the ketchup, and some carrots and turnips cut into shapely pieces. 5. Stew until the vegetables are tender and then season with pepper and salt. 6. Dish the beef, pour the sauce over and serve at once. TO BOIL A HAM Ingredients : One Ham Two Carrots Two Onions Herbs. 1. Soak in tepid water over night. 2. Scrape and trim the ham and place in a very large pan of cold water. 3. Heat gradually and skim off the fat as it rises. 4. Throw into the water one or two carrots and onions, and some fresh herbs. 5. Simmer for about five hours, less for a small ham. 6. Remove from the pan and peel off the skin carefully, 7. Cover with grated crumbs from a crust of bread. 8. Put a paper frill round the knuckle. BOILED MUTTON AND PARSLEY SAUCE Ingredients : Two pounds of Middle Neck One ounce of Pearl Barley or Rice Half a teaspoonful of Salt45 MEATS Half an ounce of Butter Half an ounce of Flour Two sprigs of Parsley Two pints of Boiling Water. 1. Wash the mutton and place in a saucepan with the boiling water. 2. Wash the barley or rice, and throw it into the boiling water with the salt. 3. Skim occasionally, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and simmer gently for two hours. SAUCE 1. Wash and chop the parsley finely. 2. Put the butter in a saucepan and melt over the fire. 3. Add the flour and stir until smooth with a wooden spoon. 4. Stir in a gill of broth from the mutton and boil until it thickens. 5. Place the mutton on a hot dish and pour the sauce over. BOILED RABBIT 1. Wash and dry the rabbit and truss with the head fastened to the side with a skewer. 2. Place in boiling water and simmer for three quarters of an hour. 3. Serve on a hot dish and pour over onion or parsley sauce. BROILED BEEF STEAK Ingredients : A Steak from the middle of the Rump, one inch thick Dripping Pepper Butter Salt Parsley. 1. Dip the steak into heated dripping and dust with pepper. 2. Put it on a well greased and heated gridiron and place over a clear fire.MEATS 46 3. Turn the meat, to prevent it being scorched, with steak tongs. A fork would probably pierce the meat and the gravy would be lost. 4. Ten minutes is the usual time to allow for the cooking of each steak. 5. Serve quickly on a hot dish, put a piece of butter on top and sprinkle with pepper and salt. 6. Garnish with parsley. N.B.—A tablespoonful of walnut, or Worcester sauce is sometimes poured over the steak. CHICKEN CURRY Ingredients : One Chicken One large Onion Two or three Apples One pint of Stock One dessertspoonful of Curry Powder One dessertspoonful of Flour One ounce of Butter Milk of one Cocoanut Lemon Juice Quarter of a pound of Rice One dozen Almonds Salt. 1. Cut up a chicken, ready dressed as for roasting, and divide each joint into two or three pieces. 2. Slice the apples and onions apd fry a golden brown in a stewpan. 3. Add the chicken and stock and simmer until tender. 4. Twenty minutes before serving, mix together the curry powder, flour, butter and the cocoanut milk. 5. Stir into the stew and add a little lemon juice. 6. Boil the rice in plenty of water for twenty minutes, drain and dry before the fire. 7. Blanch and pound the almonds. 8. Pour the curry on to a hot dish, decorate with a border of rice and sprinkle the almonds on the latter. N.B.—The rice could be served separately if preferred.MEATS 47 COLD VEAL AND WHITE SAUCE Ingredients : Slices of cooked Veal One ounce of Butter One ounce of Flour Half a pint of Milk Yolk of one Egg One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce Toast. 1. Melt the butter in a saucepan, remove from the fire, stir in the flour and add the milk, gradually. 2. Return the pan to the fire and stir until the sauce boils. 3. Add the sliced veal and simmer for a few minutes. 4. Remove from the fire, stir in the beaten yolk of the egg and add the anchovy sauce. 5. Place some toast on a hot dish, pour the veal and sauce over and garnish with nicely cooked rolls of bacon. CORNISH PASTIES Ingredients : One pound of Flour Half a pound of Lard or Dripping Half a pound of Beef Steak Half a pound of Potatoes One small Onion Salt and Pepper. 1. Cut the meat up into very small pieces, 2. Wash, peel and cut up the potatoes. 3. Skin, shoe and chop the onion finely. 4. Mix the meat, potatoes, onion and seasoning in a basin. 5. Rub the dripping or lard into the flour, and add a pinch of salt. 6. Add sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste. 7. Roll out into a thin sheet on a floured board. 8. Cut into rounds, about six inches across, and place a large spoonful of the meat and potato mixture in each. 9. Damp the edges with a little water. 10. Join at the top, forming a frilled edge with the fingers. 11. Brush each with a little egg or milk, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour.MEATS 48 CURRY Ingredients : Two pounds of cold Mutton or Veal Two tablespoonfuls of Curry Powder Two or three Onions One pint of Gravy One large Apple One tablespoonful of Flour Two teaspoonfuls of Salt Two ounces of Butter or Dripping. 1. Cut the meat into dice. 2. Mix the flour, salt and half the curry powder together and dredge on to the meat. 3. Melt the fat in a saucepan and fry the sliced onions a golden brown. 4. Remove the onions and fry the meat in the same fat. Drain the meat. 5. Put the gravy into a stewpan and add the meat and onions and the rest of the curry powder, mixed with a little gravy. 6. Slice in the apple and stew for one and a half hours. 7. Serve with a border of boiled rice, placed round the curry as a garnish. FRICASSEE OF FOWL Ingredients : Remains of a cold Fowl Two-thirds of a pint of Stock One blade of Mace Mushroom Ketchup Salt and Pepper Lemon Juice Half an ounce of Butter Half an ounce of Flour. 1. Cut the meat from the bird into neat pieces, removing the skin and gristle 2. Boil the skin and gristle in the stock and flavour with mace, lemon juice, ketchup, pepper and salt, and add a little browning if necessary. 3. Add the butter rolled well into the flour to the stock, boil and strain through a sieve,49 MEATS 4. Return to the saucepan, add the pieces of fowl and bring to a boil. 5. Serve on a very hot dish. GRILLED CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS Ingredients : One small chicken Half a pound of large Mushrooms Two ounces of Butter Pepper Parsley Lemon. 1. Prepare a chicken as for roasting, place on a chopping- board and cut it straight down the back. 2. Brush the chicken over with melted butter, put it on a well- greased gridiron, and place over a clear fire. 3. Turn the bird often, adding occasionally pieces of butter which have been dipped in pepper. 4. While the chicken is cooking, skin and trim the mushrooms, sprinkle with pepper and place a small piece of butter on each. Put into a quick oven to cook. 5. Garnish the chicken with the mushrooms, parsley and slices of lemon. HARICOT MUTTON Ingredients : Two pounds of Neck of Mutton One large Carrot One Turnip Two Onions One ounce of Dripping One tablespoonful of Flour A bunch of Parsley Pepper and Salt Two pints of Water. 1. Wipe the meat, cut it into neat pieces and trim off some of the fat. 2. Melt the fat in a saucepan and fry the meat lightly on both sides. E.D. E50 MEATS 3. Peel, slice and fry tlie onions. Add the flour and brown in the fat. 4. Pour the water into the pan and bring to a boil, stirring all the time. 5. Put the meat into the pan, add the carrot and turnip cut into dice, and the parsley. 6. Season with pepper and salt and simmer slowly for two hours. IRISH STEW Ingredients : One and a half poimds of Mutton Two pounds of Potatoes One large Onion One teaspoonful of Salt Half a teaspoonful of Pepper Three quarters of a pint of cold Water. 1. Wipe the meat and cut it into neat pieces. 2. Wash, peel and cut the potatoes into three, lengthwise. 3. Peel and shoe the onion. 4. Put a layer of meat into a saucepan, then one of onion and one of potatoes. Season with half of the salt and pepper. 5. Repeat the layers. Pour the cold water over the stew and simmer for two hours. 6. Serve very hot, LIVER AND BACON WITH ONIONS Ingredients : One pound of Calves’ Liver One pound of Streaky Bacon Two Onions One pint of Stock One teaspoonful of Flour One tablespoonful of Ketchup Pepper and Salt. 1. Peel, slice and fry the onions. 2. Dip the liver into cold water and roll in a clean cloth. 3. Cut the liver into pieces about one quarter of an inch in thickness, and slightly pepper the slices.MEATS 51 4. Cut and roll the bacon, melt a little bacon dripping in tbe frying pan. 5. Cook the bacon first and place in the oven to keep hot. 6. Cook the liver, turning often until it is a nice brown. 7. Serve on a hot dish, garnish with rolled bacon and fried onion. 8. Pour round a thick gravy made from the stock, flour and ketchup, MINCED VEAL Ingredients : Cold Veal One Carrot One Onion Parsley Lemon Peel Pepper and Salt One tablespoonful of Ketchup. 1. Remove the skin and gristle from the veal and then mince the remainder. 2. Put the skin, gristle, carrot, onion, piece of lemon peel and a few sprigs of parsley into a saucepan and pour over suffi- cient cold water to cover. 3. Simmer slowly for one hour, add pepper and salt to taste, and sufficient browning to make the gravy a nice colour. 4. Strain though a coarse cloth, return to the saucepan, thicken with a little flour and bring to a boil. 5. Add the meat and simmer for twenty minutes, taste and if necessary, add the ketchup. 6. Serve very hot, garnish with sippets of toast, slices of lemon and tufts of parsley. 7. Boiled macaroni may be served with the veal if liked. N.B.—After the meat has been added to the gravy, the mince must not be allowed to boil. MUTTON CHOPS 1. Rub a hot girdiron with a little butter or mutton suet. 2. Dip the chops into warm butter, then lightly dust with pepper.MEATS 52 3. Place them on the gridiron over a clear fire ; turn them every three minutes, hut not with a fork. 4. Cook for three minutes, place on a hot dish, put a few small pieces of butter on the chops, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them. 5. Serve as soon as they leave the fire. MUTTON CUTLETS Ingredients y The best end of a Neck of Mutton Egg Bread Crumbs Fat for Frying. 1. Cut the mutton into cutlets, half an inch thick, and then chop each bone short and trim them neatly. 2. Brush over with beaten egg and dip into bread crumbs. 3. Fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. 4. Serve round a pyramid of peas, spinach or mashed potatoes, and send to table with a tureen of tomato sauce. N.B.—Cutlets are best prepared at the butcher’s, as the bones should be chopped to give them a nice appearance. PIG’S FRY Ingredients : Pig’s Fry Three or four Apples Powdered Sage Leaves Half a gill of Gravy Pepper and Salt. 1. Peel, core and mince the apples. 2. Cut the fry into neat pieces. 3. Line a baldng tin with the apples, and then arrange alter- nately the liver, sweetbread, fat, kidney and heart. 4. Dust over with the powdered sage leaves, pepper and salt. 5. Pour in the gravy and cook in a quick oven for an hour, 6. Serve hot. POOR MAN’S GOOSE Ingredients : Shoulder of Mutton Sage and Onion Stuffing Pepper and Salt.53 MEATS paper. 1. Bone an Australian shoulder of Mutton, 2. Spread over it some well-made stuffing. 3. Roll the meat up neatly and tightly, and place on a baking tin. 4. Roast for nearly two hours, basting continually. 5. Serve with roast potatoes and a dish of boiled parsnips. POTATO PIE Ingredients : One pound of Potatoes One pound of Meat One Onion Pepper and Salt One gill of good Gravy. 1. Wash, peel, and boil the potatoes. 2. Cut the meat into small slices. 3. Butter a dish and put a layer of potatoes at the bottom, then a layer of meat, and one onion. 4. Season with a little pepper and salt and repeat the layers until the dish is nearly full. 5. Cover with a lid of mashed potatoes, score the top with a knife, and bake in a hot oven from three quarters of an hour to one hour. 6. When the first slice is cut from the pie pour in the hot gravy. POTTED BEEF Ingredients : Two pounds of lean Meat Quarter of a pound of Butter Cloves Nutmeg Allspice Mace Salt Cayenne. 1. Cut the meat into dice and place in an earthenware jar with the butter. Cover with a lid and tie down with brown54 MEATS 2. Place the jar in a large saucepan half full of boiling water. When partly cooked add the ground cloves, grated nut- ' meg, allspice, ground mace, salt and cayenne to taste. 3. Cook the meat until it is quite tender. 4. Pound in a mortar until the meat is a smooth paste. Add sufficient melted butter and press into small pots, 5. Cover with a thin layer of melted butter, PRESSED BEEF Ingredients : A round of brisket of Beef Salt Saltpetre Vinegar One dessertspoonful of Peppercorns One handful of Sugar. 1. Put the joint into a large vessel and cover it with salt, add- ing one tablespoonful of saltpetre to every four ounces of salt. 2. Add enough water to come half-way up the sides of the meat. 3. Add one teacupful of vinegar to every pint of water. Add the peppercorns and sugar. 4. The meat must be turned every day for a fortnight in cold weather, and for at least one week in warmer weather, with a wooden spoon and fork. 5. Before cooking, wash away the salt, place in a jar, just cover with hot water and simmer in the oven until tender. 6. Leave in the water until nearly cold, and then place between two flat vessels such as a tray and paste-board, with a heavy weight on top. N.B.—The joint may be obtained from the butcher ready salted. RAGOUT OF TURKEY Ingredients : Cold Turkey Two small Onions Blade of Mace Half a small Parsnip Bunch of Parslev NMEATS 55 One tablespoonful of Ketchup Half a teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce Half an ounce of Butter Yolk of an Egg.. 1. Cut any remains of meat from the bones of the turkey and remove the skin. 2. Put the bones with sufficient stock to cover them into a saucepan. Add the parsley, mace, chopped onion, par- snip and pepper and salt to taste. 3. Simmer for forty minutes, then strain through a wire sieve into a clean pan. 4. Lay the pieces of turkey in the stock and simmer slowly for thirty minutes. 5. Thicken the gravy with the butter, rolled in equal quantities of flour and cornflour. 6. Stir in the ketchup and sauce, remove the pan from the fire and stir in slowly the well-beaten yolk of egg. 7. Serve very hot with a dish of mashed potatoes. RISSOLES Ingredients : About eight tablespoonfuls of minced cold Meat One tablespoonful of Bacon or Ham One small Onion One dessertspoonful of chopped Parsley A little grated Lemon Rind Thyme One Egg Half an ounce of Dripping One ounce of Flour One gill of Stock Bread Crumbs. 1. Remove the skin and gristle from the meat and bacon and mince finely. 2. Chop the onion and parsley. 3. Melt the dripping in a stewpan and fry the onion, dredge in the flour, add one gill of stock, bring to a boil and remove from the fire.MEATS 56 4. Add the meat, bacon, parsley, lemon rind, thyme, pepper and salt to the sauce, and make the mince very hot, turn out on to a plate to cool. 5. Flour the hands and form into small balls. Dip into egg and then into the bread crumbs. 6. Fry in boiling fat a golden brown. 7. Place on a hot dish, covered with an ornamental dish paper, and garnish with parsley. Serve with a tureen of brown gravy. ROAST DUCKS Ingredients : Two plump Ducks Two pounds of Onions Two tablespoonfuls of Bread Crumbs A few sprigs of Sage Pepper and Salt. 1. Skin, boil and chop the onions. 2. Dry and rub the sage until fine, mix with the onions and bread crumbs, put the stuffing into the body of the birds and secure each end with a string. 3. Place on a greased baking tin, breasts downward, place some fat on the backs and cook in a quick oven for one hour. 4. Turn at the end of half an hour. 5. Serve with a thick gravy. ROAST GOOSE Ingredients (for stuffing) : One pound of Onions Three sprigs of dried Sage One tablespoonful of Bread Crumbs. 1. Order a goose ready dressed as for roasting. 2. Boil and chop the onions, powder the sage and mix the two together. 3. Add the bread crumbs and season with pepper and salt. 4. Fill the body with the stuffing, and, before securing the ends of the bird, put half a lemon inside. This will give the stuffing a nice flavour. X57 MEATS 5. Roast for two hours. The liver should be placed in the pan when the bird has been in the oven one and a hall hours. 6. Serve hot with apple sauce, ROAST TURKEY Buy a prepared turkey which has been drawn, singed and the sinews removed. 1. Wash and dry the bird. 2. Turn the skin back and cut off the neck close to the back. 3. Fill the crop with veal stuffing. Fasten the skin down with a skewer on to the back of the bird. 4. Finish the trussing, fastening the gizzard on one side and the liver on the other, in between the pinions. 5. Roast in front of the fire or place on a tin in the oven and baste well. Allow three hours for a large bird and two for one weighing about eight pounds. 6. Garnish with rolls of broiled bacon and baked sausages. 7. Serve with a nice brown gravy and bread sauce. N.B.—It is more economical to garnish with the sausages than to stuff the turkey with sausage meat. For a fowl allow one hour for roasting and the breast may be stuffed with sausage meat if liked. For a chicken allow about three quarters of an hour in a hot oven. ROAST LEG OF PORK Ingredients : Leg of Pork, weighing five or six pounds Three large Onions One tablespoonful of fine Bread Crumbs One tablespoonful of powdered Sage Leaves Pepper and Salt. 1. Score the skin with a sharp knife, taking care not to cut the flesh. 2. Place in a baking tin with some peeled potatoes. 3. Allow from two to two and a half hours in a hot oven. Baste occasionally. 4. Serve with brown gravy, apple sauce, and sage and onions.MEATS 58 SAGE AND ONIONS 1. Boil the onions and mince finely. 2. Add the bread crumbs, sage and season with pepper and salt 3. Stir in a tablespoonful of liquor from the pork and place the jar or basin in a hot oven for twenty minutes. ROAST RABBIT Ingredients : One or two Rabbits One small Onion Two ounces of Ham, minced Two ounces of chopped Beef Suet, One dessertspoonful of chopped Parsley, Four tablespoonfuls of Bread Crumbs One teaspoonful of mixed Herbs Pepper and Salt Yolks of two Eggs or A little Milk 1. Wash and dry the rabbits. 2. Make a forcemeat of the above ingredients, 3. Fill the rabbit with the forcemeat and sew up. 4. Truss the rabbit into shape and flour lightly. 5. Place in a quick oven for an hour and a half and baste with dripping. Serve with a thick brown gravy and currant jelly. SAUSAGES AND MASHED POTATOES Ingredients : Mashed Potatoes One pound of Sausages Thick Gravy, 1. Partly cook the sausages. 2. Form half of the mashed potatoes into a mound on a baking dish. 3. Lay the sausages side by side on the potatoes. 4. Cover the sausages with the rest of the potatoes so that they are entirely hidden and form into a nice shape. 5. Make a hole in the centre at the top so that a funnel will pass down when cooked. 6. Place in a hot oven for thirty minutes.59 MEATS 7. When the potatoes are browned, fill the centre with thick gravy and pour some round the mould. 8. Serve hot and quickly. N.B.—When mashing the potatoes, butter, milk and season- ing should be added. SAUSAGE ROLLS Ingredients : One pound of Flour Six ounces of Lard One pound of Sausages Half a teaspoonful of Salt Cold water. 1. Put the sausages in a saucepan of cold water, bring to a boil, drain away the water and remove the skins. 2. Rub the lard into the flour, add the salt, mix to a stiff paste with cold water. 3. Divide the paste and the sausage meat into eight or ten portions. 4. Roll each piece of paste into a thin strip on a floured board. 5. Place a portion of the sausage on each, damp the edges of the paste, roll up and press the edges together. 6. Brush over with milk or well-beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven for half and hour, SCOTCH COLLOPS ingredients : One pound of Veal One Apple One Anchovy One Onion One Mushroom One ounce of Butter One pound of Spinach 1. Cut the meat into slices about the size of a five shilling piece and dip into flour. 2. Put the butter in a stewpan, add the sliced onion, peeled and chopped apple and a little finely chopped parsley. 3. Place the meat on top of these ingredients, cover the pan with a lid and simmer until tender.60 MEATS 4. Arrange a pyramid of cooked spinach on a dish and dish the collops seasoned with pepper and salt round the spinach. 5. Thicken the gravy if necessary, pour over the spinach and send to table with halved lemons. SEA PIE Ingredients : One pound of Beef Steak One Onion Salt and Pepper Half a pound of Flour Quarter of a pound of Suet One teaspoonful of Baking Powder Cold Water One ounce of Butter and Dripping. 1. Cut the meat into pieces about half an inch square. 2. Skin and shoe the onion. 3. Melt the butter in a saucepan and fry the onion, add a dessertspoonful of flour and make a sauce with a pint of water. 4. Add the meat and seasoning and simmer gently for twenty minutes. 5. Chop the suet, mix with the flour, baking powder, and a pinch of salt. 6. Add sufficient water to make a stiff paste. 7. Form into a round, a little larger than the lid of the sauce- pan, place on top of the stew and cook for one hour. 8. To dish, cut the pastry into quarters and lift on to a plate, place the stew on a hot dish and lay the pastry on top in the form of a round. SHEEP’S HEAD Ingredients : Sheep’s Head. One' quart of Stock One ounce of Butter One ounce of Flour Half a pint of Milk One Turnip One Leek One Parnsip.61 MEATS 1. Remove the brains and place in clean water. 2. Blanch the head, place in a saucepan and cover with the stock. 3. Peel, and shoe the turnip, parnsip, and leek, and add to the stock. 4. Boil until the meat leaves the bones. 5. Skin the tongue, cut in slices and slice the meat from the head. 6. Make a sauce from the brains, butter, flour and milk, add half a pint of the stock, strained, in which the head has been boiled. 7. Bring to a boil, add the shoes of meat and serve hot, SHEEP’S TONGUE Ingredients : Tongues Stock Butter Egg Vermicelli. 1. Blanch and then skin the tongues. 2. Put them in a saucepan with the hot stock and stew until tender. 3. Dip each tongue into melted butter, brush them all over with well beaten egg and sprinkle with crushed vermicelli. 4. Place on a baking tin and cook in a hot oven until brown. 5. Serve on buttered toast and pour the gravy round. STEWED BEEF Ingredients : Two pounds of Beef Steak Two Onions Two ounces of Dripping One ounce of Flour One and a half pints of Stock or Water Pepper and Salt. One tablespoonful of Worcester Sauce. 1. Beat the steak. 2. Melt the dripping in a stewpan. 3. Slice the onions, fry in the fat and remove from the pan.62 MEATS 4. Fry the steak on both sides for three or four minutes and place on a plate with the onions. 5. Leave a little of the fat in the pan, stir in the flour, add the stock gradually and stir over the fire until the gravy boils. 6. Put the steak and onions into the stock and simmer for two hours. 7. Season with pepper and salt and add a tablespoonful of Worcester sauce or ketchup. 8. Serve hot with the gravy. STEWED LEG OF BEEF Ingredients : One and a half pounds of Leg of Beef. One ounce of Flour Half a teaspoonful of Salt One teaspoonful of Pepper Cold Water. 1. Cut the meat into neat pieces. 2. Mix the flour, salt and pepper on a plate. 3. Dip each piece of meat into the flour and place in a sauce- pan. 4. Cover with cold water, bring to a boil, reduce the heat and simmer for two hours. 5. Serve with the gravy. STEWED OX KIDNEY 1. Wash the kidney thoroughly, cut into shoes and dredge over with flour. 2. Put a small sliced onion into a stewpan with a lump of dripping, fry it until beginning to brown, then put in the floured shoes of kidney with pepper and salt to taste and cover it with cold water. 3. When boihng, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, let the contents simmer for half an hour. 4. Mix one teaspoonful of flour with just sufficient water to make it smooth and add a few drops of mushroom ketchup. 5. Stir it in with the kidney and continue stirring over the fire until the flour is cooked and the gravy thickened. 6. Pour the stew into a hot dish, garnish with some sippets of toast, sprinkle about one tablespoonful of chopped parsley over and serve very hot.63 MEATS STEWED OX-TAIL Ingredients : One Ox-tail Three Cloves Three Onions One blade of Mace Half a teaspoonful of Peppercorns One Carrot Three pints of Water. 1. Buy a jointed tail and wash it well in plenty of water. 2. Place in a stewpan with the water, cover with a lid and sim- mer for one hour. Remove the scum as it rises. 3. Add the vegetables and flavourings and let the stew simmer for three hours. 4. Before serving thicken the gravy with half an ounce of butter well rolled in flour. STUFFED FILLET OF VEAL Ingredients : Five or six pounds of Fillet of Veal (for the Forcemeat) Twelve tablespoonfuls of Bread Crumbs Four tablespoonfuls of chopped Suet Two tablespoonfuls of Parsley One dessertspoonful of grated Lemon Rind Thyme Marjoram Pepper and Salt Milk or liquid Butter. 1. Remove the bone from the fillet. 2. Prepare the bread crumbs, chop the suet and parsley, grate the lemon rind and add the seasoning. Mix the ingredi- ents with milk or liquid butter, using just sufficient to bind the forcemeat, but do not make it wet. 3. Fill the space in the meat with the stuffing and tie a piece of greased paper over the top. 4. Place on a baking tin, pour over three or four tablespoonfuls of dripping and bake in a hot oven. 5. Cook about three hours, basting thoroughly.64 MEATS 6. About half an hour before serving remove the paper, dredge the top with flour, replace in the oven, baste well and cook a nice brown. 7. Make some thick brown gravy, pour three spoonfuls round the veal on the dish and pour the rest into a hot tureen. 8. Garnish with slices of lemon. If there is too much force- meat, make the rest up into balls and use as a garnish. SWEETBREADS AND KIDNEY Ingredients : Three small Sweetbreads Half a pound of Ox-kidney One pound of Mushrooms Four ounces of Butter One pint of White Stock One tablespoonful of Worcester Sauce One dessertspoonful of Flour Half a teaspoonful of made Mustard Salt. 1. Blanch and trim the sweetbreads and kidney. 2. Cut the kidney into thick slices and place on a tin with the sweetbreads, put some small pieces of butter on the top and cook in the oven for twenty minutes. 3. Skin the mushrooms, remove the stalks and fry in two ounces of butter. 4. Pour the stock into a saucepan, add the kidney and sweet- breads and simmer for half an hour. 5. Add the sauce to the stock, thicken with flour, season with salt and add the mustard. 6. Boil for five minutes and add the mushrooms 7. Serve very hot. TOAD IN THE HOLE Ingredients : Three quarters of a pound of Sausages Half a pound of Flour One pint of Milk Two Eggs Salt and Pepper65 MEATS 1. Put the flour in a basin. 2. Beat the eggs and pour in half of the milk. 3. Make a well in the centre of the flour. With a wooden spoon gradually stir in the milk and egg. 4. Beat the batter well and then add the rest of the milk. 5. Grease a pie-dish, cut each sausage into halves, place in the dish and season to taste. 6. Pour the batter over the sausages and bake in a hot oven from half to three guarters of an hour. 7. Serve immediately. TRIPE AND ONIONS Ingredients : One and a half pounds of Tripe One large Onion One and a half tablespoonfuls of Flour One pint of Milk Pepper and Salt. 1. Scald the tripe and cut it into neat pieces. 2. Peel the onion and boil in salt and water for fifteen minutes. 3. Chop the onion and sprinkle the flour on gradually. 4. Put the milk into a saucepan, add the onion and flour and stir until the sauce boils. 5. Put the tripe in the pan and simmer for one and a half hours. 6. Add seasoning to taste and serve hot. E.D. FPIES AND PASTRY. PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 66 ALMOND CHEESECAKES Ingredients : Two ounces of Sweet Almonds One ounce of Bitter Almonds One tablespoonful of Rose Water Four ounces of Sugar The yolks of four Eggs. 1. Blanch the almonds and throw them into cold water. 2. Drain and then beat in a mortar with the rose water. 3. Add the sugar and well beaten yolks of eggs. 4. Line some patty tins with puff paste and nearly fill with the mixture. 5. Sift a little soft sugar over and bake in a hot oven, being careful not to burn the cheesecakes. ALMOND CUSTARD Ingredients : One pint of Milk Six lumps of Sugar Two bitter Almonds or a little lemon rind The yolks of three Eggs and the whites of two One ounce of Blanched Almonds One tablespoonful of Rose Water Sweet Jelly. 1. Add the lemon rind, bitter almonds and sugar to the milk. 2. Pour over the well beaten yolks and then the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Strain the whole into the top part of a milk saucepan. 3. Put water into the lower part and place together over the fire. 4. Pound up the sweet almonds with the rose water. Stir the paste into the custard and when it thickens pour into a jug and stir until cold.PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 67 5. Prepare some custard glasses, half full of jelly, and when set pour the custard over. Serve with wafer biscuits. APPLE PUDDING WITH RICE Ingredients : Two ounces of Rice Six Apples One pint of Milk Two Eggs Castor Sugar Jam. 1. Put the well washed rice into a greased pie-dish, and cover with water. 2. Peel and core the apples. 3. When the rice is swollen, place the apples in the dish and into each crevice put a teaspoonful of jam. 4. Cover the dish with a plate to keep the fruit in place and replace in the oven. 5. When the fruit is nearly cooked pour over the custard, re- turn to the oven and when the custard is set dust over a little castor sugar and serve hot. BAKED APPLE CUSTARD Ingredients : Six Apples One and a half pints of Custard. 1. Peel and core the apples. 2. Place them in a well greased baking-dish. 3. Bake in a moderate oven. 4. When the apples are nearly cooked, pour over the custard ; replace in the oven. 5. Watch the pudding carefully. It must not boil. As soon as the custard is set the pudding may be served. BANANA CUSTARD Ingredients : Half a dozen ripe Bananas A little Demerara Sugar One pint of Milk Two Eggs.08 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 1. Skin and slice the bananas. 2. Arrange them in layers in a pie-dish. Sprinkle a little sugar over. 3. Cover the dish, and place in a moderate oven until the fruit is soft. 4. Pour over a custard, made with milk, eggs and a little sugar. 5. Replace in the oven and bake until the custard is set. 6. Do not let the milk boil. When cold the pudding may be served with jelly cut into fancy shapes. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING Ingredients : Bread Butter Demerara Sugar Currants Sultanas One pint of Milk Two Eggs. 1. Butter a dish and scatter a layer of sugar over the bottom. 2. Arrange a layer of thin bread and butter on the sugar. 3. Next spread a few cleaned currants and sultanas over. 4. Arrange these layers in this order until the dish is full. 5. Beat the eggs well, add the milk and pour into the pie-dish. 6. Scatter some sugar over the top. 7. Place the pie-dish on a small tin and bake in a moderate oven from thirty to forty minutes. BREAD PUDDING Ingredients : une pound of Bread Two Eggs One Pint of Milk Four ounces of Sugar Four ounces of Currants Two ounces of Candied Peel Four ounces of Suet Two ounces of Flour One teaspoonful of mixed Spice Rind of a Lemon.3PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 69 1. Chop the suet and grate the lemon rind. 2. Add the sugar, currants, chopped candied peel, flour, spice, suet, and lemon rind to the bread, which has previously been soaked in cold water and passed through a sieve. 3. Beat the eggs well and stir them into the pudding. 4. Pour into a greased pie-dish or tin and bake for one hour. 5. Serve hot. CASSEROLE OF SWEET RICE Ingredients : One pint of Milk One ounce of Butter One Egg Quarter of a pound of Rice Jam Essence. 1. Put the milk into a pan and add a few drops of essence. 2. Well wash and drain the rice. 3. Add the rice to the milk and allow it to swell over a slow fire. 4. Sweeten to taste and add the butter and well beaten egg. 5. Press into a well buttered mould. 6. Place the mould in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 7. Serve on a dish and decorate with jam. CHEAP CUSTARD Ingredients : One pint of Milk Five or six lumps of Sugar A piece of Lemon Peel One tablespoonful of Cornflour The yolks of two Eggs. 1. Mix the cornflour in a basin with a little milk. 2. Beat the yolks well and add them to the cornflour. 3. Stir in the boiling milk which has been sweetened and flavoured. 4. Pour into a well greased pie-dish, when cold pour into cus- tard glasses and dust over with grated nutmeg.Two Eggs 70 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS Two sheets of leaf Gelatine. 05 Ol CHOCOLATE CUSTARD Ingredients : One and a half ounces of Chocolate One pint of Milk Two ounces of Lump Sugar 1. Add a wineglassful of water to the chocolate and dissolve gently in a warm place. 2. Pour the milk into a jug and add the sugar, gelatine (cut up) and the well beaten eggs. Flavour with one table- spoonful of grated cocoanut. 3. Place the jug in a pan of boiling water and stir the custard until it thickens. 4. Remove the jug from the water ; continue to stir until the custard is nearly cold. . Pour into custard glasses. . Pour a little of the dissolved chocolate on the top of each custard, about half an inch in depth and decorate with a blanched almond, CHOCOLATE MOULD Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Chocolate One ounce of Butter One ounce of Castor Sugar Three Eggs Candied Cherries. 1. Dissolve the chocolate with a little boiling water, and flavour with vanilla essence. 2. Melt the butter and add it with the sugar to the chocolate. 3. When cool mix in the well beaten yolks of the eggs. 4. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and stir into the other ingredients carefully. 5. Butter a fluted mould and dust wuth two oimces of rusks finely grated. 6. Cut the cherries into halves and place two in each flute and cover them with the grated rusks. 7. Pour in the chocolate mixture.PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 71 8. Cover with a buttered paper and steam for three quarters of an hour. 9. Turn out carefully and surround with small custards made firm with gelatine and put a little pistachio nut on each. CHOCOLATE TART Ingredients : Four ounces of Chocolate Rind of a Lemon Four Eggs Two tablespoonfuls of Flour Two tablespoonfuls of Milk Eight ounces of Pastry 1. Grate the chocolate and lemon rind, add a pinch of salt, and sugar to taste. 2. Mix together the flour, well beaten yolks of the eggs and the milk. 3. Put the mixture into a clean saucepan and warm gradually until nearly boiling. 4. Put it on one side to cool. 5. Line a dish with some good pastry and pour in the chocolate mixture. 6. Cover with the well whisked whites and sprinkle with castor sugar. 7. Bake in a hot oven. CHRISTMAS DUMPLING Ingredients : One pound of Flour Eight ounces of Suet One ounce of minced Apples One ounce of chopped Candied Peel One ounce of Sugar One ounce of Currants. 1. Chop the suet and add the flour. • 2. Make into a light paste with cold water. 3. Roll out on a board until quarter of an inch thick. 4. Scatter on to the paste the apples, peel, sugar and currants. 5. Roll up neatly. Tie in a cloth wrung out of cold water. 6. Place in boiling water and simmer for three hours. 7. Serve with red currant jelly sauce.72 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS CHRISTMAS PUDDING Ingredients : One and a half pounds of Raisins / Half a pound of Currants y Half a pound of mixed Candied Peel - Three quarters of a pound of Suet , -• Three quarters of a pound of fine Bread Crumbs Half a pound of Flour Half a pound of Demerara Sugar Two ounces of Almonds Quarter of a Nutmeg Rind of a Lemon One teaspoonful of Pudding Spice Blade of Mace Wineglassful of Brandy. 1. Stone and chop the raisins ; pick and dry the currants. 2. Shred and chop the suet, and rub the bread through a wire sieve. 3. Blanch and chop the almonds, chop the candied peel, grate the lemon rind and nutmeg, and crush the mace. 4. Mix all the dry ingredients together and moisten the mix- ture with the well beaten eggs and a glass of brandy. 5. Cover with a cloth and leave for one day. 6. On the following day fill some mould with the mixture and tie down with a wet cloth. 7. Place in a pan of boiling water and boil for five hours. EASY PUDDINGS Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Flour Half a pound of Castor Sugar Quarter of a pound of Butter One pint of Milk Four Eggs One Lemon Nutmeg. 1. Put the milk into a saucepan and when it is hot add the butter. 2. Stir in the sugar, flour and well beaten eggs. 3. Flavour with grated lemon rind and nutmeg.PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 73 4. Beat well and half fill a buttered pie-dish, 5. Bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Do not let the mixture boil. EGG PUDDING Ingredients : Three Eggs One pint of Milk One teacupful of Flour Currant Jelly. 1. Put the flour into a basin and add a pinch of salt. 2. Stir in gradually the well beaten eggs and milk. 3. Strain the batter through a strainer into a greased mould, filling to the brim. 4. Cover with a cloth wrung out of cold water. 5. Place in a pot of boiling water and simmer for three hours. 6. Turn out on to a dish and serve with red currant jelly. If placed round the dish the jelly dissolves and makes a sauce. ELEANOR’S PUDDING Ingredients : Flour Eggs Milk Gravy Parsley Six Sheep’s Kidneys. 1. Make a good batter with the flour, eggs and milk. 2. Grease a pie-dish and pour in the batter and place in a moderate oven. 3. Skin the kidneys, cut in halves and dip into heated butter. 4. When the batter is nearly set arrange the kidneys on the top, dust lightly with pepper and salt and leave in the oven until cooked. 5. Garnish with a rim of fried parsley and place an ornamental paper round the dish. 6. Just before sending to table pour half a gill of hot gravy over the pudding.74 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS FLAKY PASTRY Ingredients : Twelve ounces of Flour Three ounces of Butter Three ounces of Lard Salt. 1. Halve the butter and lard, making four portions. 2. Put the flour in a bowl and rub in one of the portions of fat, adding a pinch of salt. 3. Mix to a stiff paste with cold water. 4. Roll out into a long strip on a floured board. 5. Cover the strip with small pieces of the fat using up another quarter. Fold in three, turn the paste over with the cut edges parallel to the rolling pin. Roll out. 6. Repeat this process until all the fat is used up. Place the paste in a cool place for an hour, it is then ready for use. FIG PUDDING Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Figs Quarter of a pound of Suet Quarter of a pound of Bread Crumbs Quarter of a pound of Golden Syrup Two Eggs. 1. Chop the suet and figs. 2. Add the bread crumbs and golden syrup. 3. Beat the eggs well and add to the mixture. 4. Turn into a greased mould. Cover with a cloth wrung out of cold water. 5. Boil for four hours. 6. Serve^hot. GINGERBREAD PUDDING Ingredients : Three quarters of a pound of Flour Quarter of a pound of Suet Half a pound of Treacle Two tablespoonfuls of Sugar Nearly half a pint of Milk One tablespoonful of Ground Ginger One teaspoonful of Baking Powder Half a teaspoonful of Salt One Egg.PlES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 75 1. Shred and chop the suet. 2. Mix all the dry ingredients together. 3. Melt, but do not warm the treacle. 4. Add the treacle, milk, and the well beaten egg to the dry ingredients. 5. Turn into a greased basin, and leave room for the pudding to rise. 6. Cover with a greased paper and steam for three hours. 7. Serve with sweet sauce. GOLDEN PUDDING WITH ORANGE JELLY Ingredients : The weight of four Eggs in ; Suet Bread Crumbs Marmalade. 1. Chop the suet, add the bread crumbs and marmalade. 2. Stir in the eggs which must be well beaten. 3. Pour into a greased mould and boil for three hours. 4. Serve with the orange jelly. ORANGE JELLY Ingredients : Half a pint of Orange juice Half an ounce of Leaf Gelatine. 1. Pour the juice into a jug, cut the gelatine into small pieces and throw into the jug. 2. Sweeten to taste. 3. Let the jelly simmer in a jug placed in a pot of boiling water, until the gelatine is dissolved. 4. Pour when nearly cold in small moulds which have been oiled or standing in water. 5. When firm they are ready for use. Turn out carefully. It is better to make the jelly the previous day, GROUND RICE BLANCMANGE Ingredients : One pint of Milk One dessertspoonful of Ground Rice One tablespoonful of Rose Water One tablespoonful of Sugai One Lemon One ounce of Gelatine.76 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 1. Pour the milk into a jug with the gelatine and thinly pared lemon rind, and stand in a pan of boiling water. 2. Stir until it boils. 3. Mix the ground rice with the rose water and pour the milk over. 4. Strain through a sieve into a well soaked mould, 5. Serve when firm. HUNTER’S PUDDING Ingredients : One pound of Flour One pound of Suet One pound of Currants One pound of Raisins Four ounces of Sugar Half a Lemon Rind Four Eggs One gill of Milk Quarter of a teaspoonful of Salt. 1. Mix together the finely chopped suet, flour, currants, stoned and chopped raisins, sugar, grated lemon rind and salt. 2. Beat the eggs well and add the milk. 3. Strain into the dry ingredients, reducing them to a thick batter. 4. Boil in a cloth for six hours. 5. Serve with sauce. JAM ROLL Ingredients : Half a pound of Flour Six ounces of Suet Jam. 1. Shred and chop the suet. 2. Put the flour in a basin, add the suet and a pinch of salt. 3. Make into a light paste with cold water. 4. Roll out on a floured board. 5. Spread with jam, roll up and close the ends. 6. Wring a cloth out of cold water and tie the pudding in it. 7. Place in a pan of boiling water and simmer for two hours. 8. Remove the cloth and serve on a hot dish.PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 77 LEICESTER PUDDING Ingredients : One pound of Flour One teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda One Lemon Quarter of a Nutmeg Eight oimces of Beef Suet One and a half teaspoonfuls of Demerara Sugar Half a pound of Raisins. 1. Chop the suet. 2. Stone the raisins. 3. Mix all the dry ingredients together. 4. Add the juice of a whole lemon and the grated rind of half. 5. Add sufficient milk to make a wet paste. 6. Grease a basin, dust it over with Demerara sugar and pour in the mixture. 7. Wring a clean cloth out of cold water and tie over the pud- ding. 8. Plunge the basin into boiling water and boil slowly for two and a half hours. 9. Serve with sweet sauce. LEMON CURD FOR CHEESECAKES Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Butter Three quarters of a pound of Castor Sugar Six Eggs The juice of three Lemons The rind of Four Lemons. 1. Put the butter into a double saucepan. 2. Add the sugar, grated rind and juice of the lemons. 3. Beat the eggs well and add to the mixture, stir until it thickens. 4. Pour into jars, tie down and keep in a cool place. LEMON PUDDING Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Suet Half a pound of Bread Crumbs Four ounces of Sugar Two Lemons Two Eggs.78 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 1. Mix together the chopped suet, bread crumbs, sugar, grated rind, and the juice of the lemons and the yolks of the eggt well beaten. 2. Grease a pie-dish and pour in the mixture. 3. Bake in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. 4. Cover the pudding with a layer of red currant jam. Over this spread the whites of the eggs well beaten. 5. Replace in the oven to colour the whites to a golden brown. 6. Serve hot. LEMON SPONGE Ingredients : Three gills of Water One ounce of Gelatine Four ounces of Sugar Three Lemons Two Eggs (whites only), 1. Cut the gelatine into pieces, pour on the water, add the sugar, juice of three lemons and the thinly peeled rind of one. 2. Place on one side for half an hour. 3. Heat gradually in a saucepan until the gelatine and sugar are dissolved. 4. Pour into a large basin and when cold add the whites of the two eggs. 5. Whisk all well together until the mixture is white and spongy. 6. Arrange in spoonfuls on a glass dish or pour into an oiled mould. MACEDOINE Ingredients : One pint of Jelly Almonds Grapes Oranges Dates Grated Cocoanut. 1. Line an ornamental mould with liquid jelly. When nearly set decorate the sides with blanched and split almonds.PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 79 2. Place in the mould a layer of grapes and cover with jelly. 3. When nearly set cover with a layer of thinly sliced oranges free from peel and pour over more jelly. 4. Place on one side to set and then arrange a layer of stoned dates. Fill up the mould with jelly, into which drop a few blanched and split almonds. 5. When set turn out carefully, and if liked dust over with grated cocoanut. Place little heaps of chopped jelly round the bottom. MINCEMEAT Ingredients : One pound of Beef Suet One pound of Cooking Apples One and a half pounds of Currants One pound of Raisins One pound of Moist Sugar Three quarters of a pound of Mixed Peel One Nutmeg One teaspoonful of Ground Ginger Three Lemons One teaspoonful of Allspice and Cloves One teacupful of Brandy. 1. Chop the suet. 2. Peel, core and chop the apples. 3. Clean the currants, and stone the raisins. 4. Chop the candied peel, and grate the nutmeg. 5. Place all in a large stone vessel and add the grated rind and juice of the lemons, sugar, spice, brandy and a pinch of salt. 6. Blend all well together and cover the jars with paper. OMELETTE SOUFFLE ET MOULEE Ingredients : Six Eggs Two tablespoonfuls of Castor Sugar Four Macaroons One tablespoonful of Flour Grated rind of one Lemon One tablespoonful of Orange Flower Water.80 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 1. Butter a mould and dust it with crushed biscuits. 2. Separate the whites and yolks of the eggs and beat separ- ately. 3. Add to the yolks the castor sugar, macaroons powdered, flour, pinch of salt, lemon rind and the orange flower water. 4. Stir in the whites, mixing carefully. 5. Pour the mixture into the mould but do not fill it quite full. 6. Place in a slow oven and when it is well risen and baked, turn out upon a dish. PANCAKES Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Flour Half a pint of Milk One Egg One Lemon Castor Sugar. 1. Put the flour in a basin, add a pinch of salt and make a hole in the centre. 2. Beat one egg well, and add half the milk. 3. Stir the egg and milk into the flour with a wooden spoon and beat well. 4. Add the rest of the milk and stir rapidly for a few minutes. 5. The batter should be made at least one hour before it is to be cooked. 6. Make some dripping very hot in a frying pan and pour in sufficient batter to cover the bottom. 7. Fry a golden brown on the under side. Toss and fry the other side. 8. Serve on a hot dish with castor sugar and lemon. PARSON’S PUDDING Ingredients : Six ounces of Suet Eight ounces of Flour Apples Currants Candied Peel. 1. Shred and chop the suet. Put it into a bowl, 2. Add the flour and a pinch of salt.One ounce of Sugar. Ingredients : One ounce of Gelatine PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 81 9. Boil for two hours. 4. Roll out on a floured board. Od CO 3. Mix to a stiff paste with cold water. 5. Peel, core and chop the apples and spread over the paste. 6. Sprinkle over a few currants, chopped candied peel, and sugar. 7. Damp the edges and roll up. 8. Tie in a clean cloth. PINEAPPLE CREAM Half a pint of Cream Four tablespoonfuls of Pineapple Juice One cupful of Milk. 1. Soak a mould in water for one hour. 2. Soak the gelatine in the milk. 3. Boil the pineapple juice with the sugar and add the gelatine to it with the milk. 4. Pour the cream into a bowl and whisk in a cool place until it begins to thicken. 5. Add the cream to the juice, gelatine, and milk and stir lightly together. 6. Pour the mixture into the wet mould and place in a cool place until set. PINEAPPLE FRITTERS Ingredients : One small tin of Pineapple Quarter of a pound of Flour One gill of Milk One Egg. 1. Remove the fruit from the syrup and drain on a cloth. . Make a batter with the flour, egg, and milk, and beat well. . Dip each piece of pineapple into the hatter and drop imme- diately into boiling fat. 4. Drain on soft paper. 5. Serve very hot and place a teaspoonful of chopped almond on to each fritter. E.D. G82 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS PLAIN PUDDING WITH CHOCOLATE SAUCE Ingredients : Half a pound of Suet Three quarters of a pound of Flour A pinch of Salt. 1. Chop the suet and mix with the flour in a basin. 2. Add the salt and baking powder. 3. Warm the milk and stir into the flour and suet. 4. Turn the mixture on to a cloth wrung out of cold water. Tie up in the shape of a roll. 5. Place in boiling water and simmer slowly for two hours. 6. Before serving pour over the chocolate sauce. PRUNE JELLY Ingredients : Half a pound of Prunes One pint of AVater One wineglassful of Sherry Four ounces of Loaf Sugar Half an ounce of Gelatine One tablespoonful of chopped Lemon Peel The juice of half a Lemon. 1. Put the water, prunes and sherry into an enamelled pan and stew until tender. 2. Rub the whole through a sieve and pour into a clean pan. 3. Add the sugar, gelatine, peel and lemon juice. Stir over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. 4. Slightly oil a pint mould, and pour in the jelly. 5. AVhen set turn out and serve with custard or whipped cream. QUEEN’S PUDDING Ingredients : Sponge Cakes Apricot Jam One pint of Milk Two Eggs One tablespoonful of Sugar. 1. Grease a pie-dish and place a layer of sponge cake crumbs at the bottom, then a layer of jam, and then another layer of crumbs until the dish is nearly full.PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 83 at n*. os to . Make a custard with the milk, yolks of eggs and sugar. . Pour into a pie-dish and place in a moderate oven. . Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. . When the pudding is nearly cooked, cover with the whites of the eggs, sift a little castor sugar on the top, and return to the oven. Bake until a golden brown. RASPBERRY CHARLOTTE ingredients : Bread crumbs Raspberries Sugar Butter. 1. Butter a pie-dish and cover the bottom with a layer of dry bread crumbs. 2. Cover with a layer of ripe raspberries and sprinkle with sugar. 3. The layers must alternate until the dish is full, the last layer being breadcrumbs. 4. Put pieces of butter on the top, cover with a plate and bake in a moderate oven. 5. When baked sift castor sugar over, 6. Serve with clotted cream. RICE CUSTARD Ingredients : One pint of Milk Two Eggs One ounce of Ground Rice One dessertspoonful of Sugar Jam. 1. Beat the eggs in a basm. 2. Add the sugar and the milk. 3. Pour into a jug and place in a pan of boiling water. Stir until the custard thickens. 4. Put the rice into a basin and pour the custard over. 5. Stir until nearly cold, and then pour into custard glasses. 0. Before serving place a teaspoonful of jam on each.84 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS RICE PANCAKES Ingredients : Half a pound of Rice One pint of Milk Four Eggs Pinch of Salt Nutmeg Two ounces of Butter Flour Lard or Dripping Castor Sugar. 1. Boil the rice to a jelly in a small quantity of water. 2. When cold, add the milk, well-beaten eggs, salt and a little grated nutmeg. 3. Warm the butter and stir into the mixture. Add suffi- cient flour to make a thick batter. 4. Melt a small quantity of fat in a frying pan, pour in suffi- cient of the mixture to cover the bottom of the pan. 5. Fry on both sides. 6. Sift a little castor sugar over and serve very hot. RICE PUDDING Ingredients : Six ounces of Rice One quart of Water One quart of Milk Piece of Lemon Peel Cinnamon Yolks of three Eggs Sugar One pound of Minced Apples Puff Paste. 1. Put the well-washed rice into a saucepan and pour on the water. 2. Boil for five minutes and pour away the water. 3. Put the milk into the pan and simmer gently until tender, stirring occasionally. 4. Beat the yolks of the eggs well and add to the rice. 5. Line a pie-dish with puff paste. Pour in the boiled rice.PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 85 6. Cover the top with a layer of minced apples and sprinkle over some Demerara sugar. 7. Cook in a hot oven until the paste is a light brown colour. 8. Serve hot or cold, with or without black currant jelly. ROLLED FRENCH PUDDING Ingredients : Light Suet‘Paste Minced Candied Peel Chopped Figs Butter Golden Syrup. 1. Roll out the suet paste until it is about quarter of an inch thick. 2. Scatter over the chopped candied peel and figs, 3. Place a few small lumps of butter on the top. 4. With a tablespoon screen the whole with the syrup. 5. Roll up lightly. Close the ends, tie up in a cloth, and boil for two and a half hours# ROLLED TREACLE PUDDING Ingredients : Half a pound of Suet Half a pound of Treacle Twelve ounces of Flour Half a teaspoonful of Baking Powder Pinch of Salt Pinch of Ground Ginger. 1. Add the flour, salt, baking powder and ginger to the well- chopped suet. 2. Mix with sufficient warm water to make a moist paste, and then press the paste out on a floured board with a rolling pin. 3. Spread with the treacle and roll it up with well-floured fingers, closing the ends of the roll. 4. Roll in a cloth that has been well soaked in cold water. Tie up the ends and fasten the centre with a safety pin, 5. Boil for two hours, and turn occasionally.86 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS ROUGH PUFF PASTRY Ingredients : Three quarters of a pound of Flour Half a pound of Butter Salt. 1. Weigh the flour on to a pastry board and add a pinch of salt. 2. Place the butter in the centre of the flour and chop finely with a knife. 3. Add gradually sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste. Keep the mixture together on the centre of the board and knead lightly with the tips of the fingers. 4. Flour the board and roll the paste into a long strip. Dredge lightly, fold in three, roll out and repeat this process three times. 5. Place in a cold place for one hour. N.B.—This pastry is suitable for tarts and mincepies. SAGO PUDDING Ingredients : One and a half pints of Milk Two tablespoonfuls of Sago Rind of half a Lemon Three ounces of Brown Sugar One ounce of Butter Half a poimd of Figs One ounce of candied Orange Peel. 1. Grease a pie-dish and dust over with the sugar. 2. Simmer the sago in half a pint of water for ten minutes. 3. Stir in the milk and sweeten to taste. Pour into the pie- dish. 4. Bake in a moderate oven for three hours. 5. Cut but do not divide the figs. 6. Place in a stew jar and cover with water. 7. Add the chopped peel and place in the oven for four hours. 8. Serve with the pudding. SHORT PASTRY Ingredients : Half a pound of Flour Four ounces of Butter, lard or dripping Half a teaspoonful of Salt Cold WaterPIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 87 1. Put the flour into a bowl and rub the fat in lightly with the tips of the fingers. 2. Add the salt, and stir in gradually sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste, using a knife or fork. 3. Flour a marble slab or pastry board, and roll the pastry out. 4. Bake as soon as it is prepared. SOUFFLE PUDDING Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Butter Six ounces of Flour One pint of Milk Lemon Essence Two tablespoonfuls of Demerara Sugar Yolks of Six Eggs and whites of Four Glace Cherries Angelica. 1. Beat the butter to a cream and add the flour, 2. Boil the milk and flavour with lemon. 3. Pour on to the flour and butter, return to the pan, and when at boiling heat add the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Stir well. 4. Sweeten to taste and place on one side to cool. 5. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth and stir into the cooled mixture. 6. Line a plain mould with buttered paper and decorate with the cherries and angelica. 7. Pour in the mixture, and steam the pudding for two hours. 8. Allow the pudding to cool a little before turning out. Serve with port wine sauce. N.B.—The mould should be placed in a large stewpan. If properly made the pudding should rise to twice its size. SOUFFLE OF RICE AND APPLES Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Rice Lemon Cinnamon Two pounds of Apples Whites of three Eggs Castor Sugar.88 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 1. Wash and boil the rice until soft. 2. When it is cool line the sides of a buttered pie-dish with the rice. 3. Half fill the dish with apple marmalade, prepared as for apple sauce. 4. Cover with the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Sift a little sugar over. 5. Place in a good oven until the pudding is a light golden brown. SPANISH TRIFLE Ingredients : Sufficient paste to line a pie-dish One pound of good Cooking Apples Two Bananas Grated rind of one Lemon Pinch of ground Ginger One Mango Sugar to taste. 1. Peel, core and shoe the apples. 2. Place in an enamelled pan and add the bananas skinned and sliced, grated lemon rind, a little ginger and the stoned skinned and sliced mango. 3. Sweeten to taste and cook slowly. 4. Line a pie-dish with good pastry and pour in the fruit. 5. Place in a quick oven to bake. 7. Before serving pour over a good cupful of custard, and send to table at once. SPONGE CAKE PUDDING Ingredients : Two Sponge Cakes One gill of Milk One Egg Jelly. 1. Grease a small pie-dish, cut the sponge cakes into slices and place them in the dish, shoe upon shoe. 2. Add the milk to the well-beaten egg, and pour over the sponge cake. 3. Cook slowly in a moderate oven.PIES, PASTRY, PUDDING AND SWEETS 89 4. When set remove from the oven. 5. Serve with small moulds of jelly. SPONGE CREAM Ingredients : One ounce of Isinglass Half a pint of Cream Two tablespoonfuls of Raspberry Juice Sugar Lemon Juice. 1. Boil the isinglass and the rind of half a lemon in half a pint of water. 2. When dissolved strain through a piece of muslin or coarse calico. 3. When cool add the cream, raspberry juice, and sugar to taste. 4. Pour into a large bowl and whisk until it is a stiff froth. 5. Turn into a wetted mould, and when set it is ready for use. SWEET OMELETTE Ingredients : Three Eggs Jam. 1. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs and beat separ- ately. 2. Add the whites to the yolks. 3. Grease an omelette pan with a little butter, and pour in the eggs. ■ 4. Brown lightly on the under side, hold in front of the fire and colour the top. Do not turn. 5. Spread half the omelette with a little jam and fold the other half over. 6. Serve quickly. STEWED GOOSEBERRIES Ingredients : One pint of Gooseberries One tablespoonful of Sugar Lemon Peel Small teacupful of Water,90 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 1. Snip each end off the gooseberries and wash in cold water. 2. Place in a jar and add the sugar, a piece of lemon rind, and the water. 3. Cover with a lid and cook in a moderate oven until the fruit is quite tender, but not broken. 4. When cold, turn into a glass dish. 5. Pour half a gill of cream round. STEWED PLUMS Ingredients : One pound of Plums One teaspoonful of Ginger Two ounces of Candied Peel. 1. Wash the plums and put them into an earthen stew jar. 2. Add the ginger, chopped candied peel and sugar to taste. 3. Cover with water and tie down the lid. 4. Cook in a slow oven for two or three hours. Do not let the plums break. STUFFED APPLES Ingredients : Half a dozen large Apples Mincemeat Lump Sugar Few Cloves Sweetened Wine or Water. 1. Peel and core, but do not break the apples. 2. Fill the holes with mincemeat and place a lump of sugar on the top of each hole. 3. Place the apples side by side in a dish. 4. Pour in a httle wine or water and a few cloves, and bake in a quick oven. 5. Serve hot. SUET PASTE FOR FRUIT PUDDINGS Ingredients : One pomid of Flour Six ounces of Beef Suet Salt.PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 91 ]. Shred and chop the suet. 2. Mis the suet, flour and a pinch of salt together. 3. Add gradually sufficient cold water to make a smooth, stiff paste. 4. Roll out twice very lightly and quickly. 5. Grease a basin, line with the paste, fill with fruit, to which add sufficient moist sugar to sweeten. 6. Place a lid of paste on the top, wet the edges, and fold over firmly. 7. Cover with a pudding cloth wrung out of cold water. SUET PUDDING Ingredients : Six ounces of Suet Nine ounces of Flour Salt Cold Water. 1. Shred and chop the suet. 2. Put the flour into a boAvl, add the suet and a pinch of salt. 3. Make into a moist paste Avith cold water. 4. Pour the pudding on to a cloth Avrung out of cold Avater, tie up and boil from two to two and a half hours. 5. Serve hot with jam, sugar or syrup. N.B.—The pot must be kept supplied with boiling water as the AA"ater is sure to boil away. TAPIOCA PUDDING WITH APPLES Ingredients : Two ounces of Tapioca One pint of Water Six Apples Sugar to taste. 1. Wash the tapioca and put it into a, saucepan with the water. 2. Cook slowly until tender, sweeten to taste, and pour into a buttered pie-dish. 3. Peel and core the apples and place in the dish of tapioca. 4. The pudding is ready when the apples are sufficiently baked. Serve with or without cream.92 PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS TREACLE SPONGE Ingredients : One pound of Flour Three quarters of a pound of Suet One teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda One breakfastcupful of Treacle One Egg. 1. Chop the suet. 2. Add the flour. 3. Melt the treacle, but do not let it get hot. 4. Mix the soda with a tablespoonful of milk and add to the well-beaten egg. 5. Make the flour and suet into a soft dough with the treacle and egg. Add a little more milk if necessary. 6. Pour into a buttered basin and tie a cloth over. When it has come to a boil simmer for three hours. VERMICELLI PUDDING' Ingredients : Three ounces of Vermicelli One pint of Milk Two ounces of Butter Half a gill of Cream Three Eggs Sugar. 1. Boil the vermicelli in the milk until soft. 2. Flavour with a little grated lemon rind. 3. Stir in the butter, cream and the well-beaten yolks of the eggs. Sweeten to taste. 4. Bake in a moderate oven. 5. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add one teaspoonful of castor sugar. 6. Put the whites on the top of the pudding and replace in the oven to brown, 7. Serve hot. YORKSHIRE PUDDING Ingredients : One and a half pints of Milk Three Eggs One teacupful of Flour.PIES, PASTRY, PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 93 1. Put the flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt, and make a well in the centre. 2. Beat the eggs well and add half of the milk. 3. Stir into the flour gradually, using a wooden spoon. Beat well. 4. Add the rest of the milk and stir rapidly. 5. Melt a tablespoonful of dripping in a tin, and when hot pour in the batter. 6. Bake for thirty minutes. 7. Cut into pieces and serve round the joint. WHITE PEARS IN SUGAR Ingredients : Two pounds of large Cooking Pears Three Lemons Half a pound of Sugar Few Cloves. 1. Insert a clove in the eye of each pear. 2. Throw into boiling water and simmer until soft. 3. Pare and throw into cold water with the juice of two lemons. 4. Lay the pears in a stewpan with the sugar and juice of a lemon and sufficient water to cover them. 5. Boil for ten minutes. 6. Take them up and carefully place in a glass dish. 7. Boil the syrup again, and pour over the pears when it is cool.CAKES AND BISCUITS 94 ARROWROOT BISCUITS Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Flour Quarter of a pound of Castor Sugar Three ounces of Arrowroot Three ounces of Butter Two Eggs. 1. Rub the arrowroot, flour and sugar through a sieve. 2. Beat the butter to a cream. 3. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs and beat the whites to a stiff froth. A. Stir the dry ingredients into the butter, add the well- beaten yolks of the eggs and then the whites. 5. Drop the mixture on to a greased tin, allowing a teaspoonful to each biscuit. 6. Bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. ROLLS FOR BREAKFAST Ingredients : Two pounds of Flour One ounce of Butter One and a half teaspoonfuls of Brewer’s Yeast Pinch of Salt One teaspoonful of Sugar One pint of Milk. 1. Put the flour to warm in a large bowl or pan. 2. Warm the butter with the milk. 3. Mix the yeast, sugar and salt and stir into the lukewarm water.95 CAKES AND BISCUITS 4. Pour on to the flour and let the dough rise for two hours, 5. Knead lightly, form into eight rolls and bake in a quick oven. BROWN BREAD Ingredients : One poimd of White Flour One pound of Brown Flour One teaspoonful of Sugar Three quarters of an ounce of Yeast One pint of lukewarm Water One large teaspoonful of Salt. 1. Mix the flour and salt in a warm bowl. 2. Cream the yeast and sugar in a basin and add the water; place in a warm place for ten minutes. 3. Pour into the flour and mix thoroughly to the consistency of a very moist dough. 4. Grease and warm the bread tins, half fill with the dough and stand near the fire to rise until it comes to the top of the tin. 5. Bake in a hot oven for three quarters of an hour. CHOCOLATE BISCUITS. (Recipe i) Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Flour Two ounces of Sugar Two ounces of Butter Half an Egg Essence of Vanilla Small cake of Cadbury’s Chocolate Boiling Water Half an ounce of Butter Half an ounce of Flour Quarter of a pound of Icing Sugar. 1. Rub the butter, flour, and sugar together in a clean bowl. 2. Beat the egg, add a few drops of vanilla, stir the egg into the flour and knead lightly. 3. Roll out on a floured board, cut into rounds and bake on buttered baking sheet in a slow oven.96 CAKES AND BISCUITS 4. Put the cake of chocolate in the oven and when soft place it in a little boiling water. 5. Mix the half ounce of flour and butter in a small pan over the fire. 6. Add two tablespoonfuls of the chocolate and stir until it boils. Flavour with vanilla. 7. Dissolve the icing sugar with boiling water to make a thick icing and beat well. 8. Mix the icing and chocolate together and spread over the biscuits with a knife dipped in hot water. CHOCOLATE BISCUITS. (Recipe 2) Ingredients : Three Eggs Three quarters of a pound of powdered Choco- late Three ounces of Castor Sugar Three ounces of Flour. 1. Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, putting the yolks into a bowl. 2. Add the chocolate and castor sugar and beat thoroughly. 3. Beat the whites to a snow and stir carefully into the mix- ture. 4. Add the flour gradually and drop the mixture from a spoon into buttered tins or upon white paper. 5. Shift a little castor sugar over and bake in a moderate oven. COCOANUT BISCUITS Ingredients : Half a pound of Cocoanut Half a pound of Castor Sugar Whites of two Eggs. 1. If afresh cocoanut is used it should be grated the daybefore, in order that it may be thoroughly dry. 2. Beat the whites to a stiff froth. 3. Mix the cocoanut and sugar together in a bowl. 4. Stir in the whites and form the mixture with the hands into small cones.CAKES AND BISCUITS 97 5. Place on a buttered baking sheet and bake in a hot oven for half an hour. 6. The top of the cone should be coloured and the rest of the biscuit quite white. COCOANUT CAKES Ingredients : Half a pound of Flour Quarter of a pound of Butter Six ounces of Sugar Two ounces of Desiccated Cocoanut. One small teaspoonful of Baking Powder Two or three Eggs Half a gill of Milk. 1. Boil the milk and pour it over the cocoanut. Place on one side to cool. 2. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. 3. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. 4. Add the flour and yolks of the eggs alternately to the butter, stir in the milk and cocoanut and beat thoroughly. 5. Stir in lightly the baking powder and whites of the eggs. 6. Pour into a tin lined with greased paper and bake one and a quarter hours in a moderate oven. COVENTRY CAKES Ingredients : Four ounces of Flour Two ounces of Sugar One Lemon (Rind only) Six ounces of Butter The Whites of two Eggs Milk 1. Rub the butter into the flour and add the sugar and grated lemon rind. 2. Make into a paste with the whisked whites of the eggs. 3. Roll out on a board and cut into rounds. 4. Brush over with a little of the white and dust with sugar. 5. Bake in a moderate oven. 6. Keep in tin boxes, E.D.98 CAKES AND BISCUITS DELICIOUS CAKE Ingredients : Half a pound of Flour Half a pound of Butter Six ounces of Sugar Two ounces of Candied Peel Quarter of a pound of Almonds One teaspoonful of Mixed Spice Grated rind of an Orange and Lemon Four Eggs 1. Beat the butter to a cream, add the yolks of the eggs and the sugar ; and beat well. 2. Stir in the flour, chopped candied peel, blanched and pounded almonds. 3. Grate the orange and lemon rind, add these with the spice to the other ingredients. Beat in each ingredient well before adding the next. 4. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and add to the mixture. 5. Pour into a cake tin lined with four folds of greased paper and bake in a hot oven. DERBY CAKES Ingredients : One pound of Flour Half a pound of Butter Half a pound of Castor Sugar Half a pound of Currants One Egg Half a pint of Sour Milk. 1. Rub the butter into the flour. 2. Add the sugar, currants and the well-beaten egg. 3. Mix into a paste with the sour milk. 4. Roll out on a board. Cut into rounds and place on a bak- ing-tin.. 5. Bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. FIVE MINUTES’ CAKE Ingredients ; The weight of two eggs in Flour and Castor Sugar One large teaspoonful of Baking Powder Essence.99 OAKES AND BISCUITS 1. Separate the whites and yolks of the eggs, put the yolks into a mixing-bowl and the whites on to a plate and beat throughout. 2. Add the whites, which must be quite stiff, to the yolks, stirring with a metal spoon. 3. Stir the sugar and flour gradually into the eggs. 4. Lastly add the baking powder and essence. 5. Grease two Victoria sandwich tins. Put half the mixture into each and make the top smooth with a knife. 6. Bake in a very hot oven for five minutes. 7. When cool spread jam in between and dust with sugar. GENOA CAKE Ingredients : The weight of five Eggs in : Sugar Flour Butter Quarter of a pound of Candied Peel Quarter of a pound of Sultanas One ounce of Candied Cherries Two ounces of Almonds One teaspoonful of grated Lemon or Orange Rind. 1. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. 2. Add the flour and eggs gradually, and a pinch of salt. 3. Add the chopped candied peel, the blanched and split almonds and the other dry ingredients to the mixture. 4. Pour into a tin lined with greased paper ; place a paper on the top. 5. Bake in a hot oven and reduce the heat gradually. GINGERBREAD CAKE Ingredients : One and a half pounds of Flour One pound of Golden Syrup Half a pound of Lard Half a pound of Sugar Two tablespoonfuls of Ground Ginger100 CAKES AND BISCUITS Three Eggs Two tablespoonfuls of Milk One small teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda Two ounces of Chopped Candied Peel. 1. Put the lard, sugar and syrup into a stewpan and melt them gradually. 2. Rub the ginger and flour through a sieve into a large basin. 3. Pour the lard, sugar and syrup into the centre of the flour and stir round with a wooden spoon. 4. Dissolve the carbonate of soda in the milk and stir into the mixture with the well-beaten eggs. 5. Beat from ten to fifteen minutes. Add the candied peel and if liked a few almonds, blanched and split. 6. Grease a dripping-tin very well. Pour in the mixture and bake in a very slow oven about one and a half hours. LEMON BISCUITS Ingredients : Half a pound of Flour Half a pound of Castor Sugar Grated rind of a Lemon Three ounces of Butter Three ounces of Currants Three Eggs. 1. Mix the flour, sugar and grated lemon rind. 2. Dissolve the butter and stir in the flour. 3. Separate the whites and yolks of the eggs and beat separ- ately. 4. Stir the yolks of the eggs into the mixture, add the currants and lastly the whites of the eggs. 5. Drop the biscuits on to wafer paper, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. LIGHT CAKE Ingredients : The weight of three eggs in : Castor Sugar, and in Flour Two and a half ounces of ButterCAKES AND BISCUITS ioi One teaspoonful of Baking Powder Three tablespoonfuls of Milk Half a teaspoonful of Essence (lemon or vanilla). 1. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream and add one egg well beaten. 2. Stir in about one third of the flour and then add another egg ; repeat this and then add the milk. 3. Beat the cake well for at least five minutes, then add the baking powder and essence. 4. Line a baking tin (the edges of which should be about two inches deep) with greased paper. Cut the corners of the paper so that it fits the tin. 5. Pour in the mixture and smooth over with a knife. 6. Bake in a good oven about fifteen minutes. Turn out on to a sugared board and then turn right side uppermost to cool. 7. Trim the edges and cut the cake into halves. Spread one half with jam, lemon curd or icing sugar and place a few walnuts or almonds on the latter. Cover with the other half of the cake, dust over with sugar or ice the cake. LONDON BISCUITS Ingredients : One and a half pounds of Flour Half a pound of Butter Three quarters of a pound of Sugar Two Eggs Two teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder Two ounces of Currants Two ounces of Candied Peel. One teaspoonful of Carraway Seeds Milk. 1. Rub the butter into the flour 2. Add the sugar, baking powder, cleaned currants, carraway seeds and finely chopped candied peel. 3. Mix to a stiff paste with the well-beaten eggs and a little milk.102 CAKES AND BISCUITS 4. Roll out on a floured board, cut into shapes and bake in a quick oven. 5. When cold store in a tin. MACAROONS Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of finely Sifted Sugar Whites of Four Eggs Four ounces of Jordan Almonds One tablespoonful of Rose Water Wafer Paper. 1. Blanch and then pound the almonds in a mortar with the rose water. 2. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir in the sugar. 3. Add gradually the almond paste, and beat well until thoroughly mixed. 4. Drop the mixture in small rounds on to a wafer paper. 5. Bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, PLAIN MADEIRA CAKE * Ingredients : Half a pound of Flour Quarter of a pound of Butter Quarter of a pound of Castor Sugar Two Eggs Candied Peel One teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 1. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. 2. Separate the whites and yolks of the eggs and beat separ- ately. 3. Add the yolks of the eggs and sifted flour alternately. Beat well. 4. Stir in the baking powder, and the whites of the eggs lightly. 5. Pour the mixture into a cake tin lined with greased paper and place a piece of candied peel on the top. 6. Bake in a moderate oven for one and a quarter hours.CAKES AND BISCUITS 103 MADEIRA CAKE Ingredients : Half a pound of Flour Half a pound of Butter Half a pound of Sugar Three Eggs Two ounces of Candied Peel. 1. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. 2. Add the eggs and flour gradually and beat well. 3. Pour the mixture into a cake tin lined with greased paper and place the candied peel on the top. 4. Dust with castor sugar and place in a hot oven, reducing the heat in ten minutes. MILK BISCUITS Ingredients : Half a pound of Flour One ounce of Butter One teaspoonful of Baking Powder Quarter of a pint of Milk. 1. Warm the butter and milk in a saucepan. 2. Mix the flour and baking powder in a basin. 3. Add the hot milk and butter and form into a stiff dough. 4. Roll out on a floured board into a thin sheet, and cut into rounds with a cutter. 5. Place on a greased tin and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. 6. When cold store in a tin. ORMSKIRK GINGERBREAD BISCUITS Ingredients : One pound of Flour Half a pound of Sugar Half a pound of Golden Syrup Six ounces of Butter One ounce of Ginger One ounce of candied Lemon Peel. 1. Rub the butter into the flour and add the dry ingredients. Mix well.104 CAKES AND BISCUITS 2. Melt the syrup in a cup and use it to make the other ingredi- ents into a paste. 3. Roll out on a floured board and cut in rounds. 4. Bake in a moderate oven. SCONES Ingredients : One pound of Flour Two ounces of Butter One tablespoonful of Baking Powder One tablespoonful of Sugar Milk 1. Rub the fat into the flour and add the baking powder and sugar. 2. Stir in sufficient milk to make a light dough. 3. Roll out on a floured board. 4. Cut into rounds. Place on a tin and bake in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. SEED CAKE Ingredients : Half a pound of Flour Quarter of a pound of Lard or Butter Quarter of a pound of Castor Sugar Two Eggs Two tablespoonfuls of Carraway Seeds One teaspoonful of Baking Powder Half a gill of Milk. 1. Rub the lard into the flour. 2. Add the sugar, baking powder and seeds. 3. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. 4. Add the milk to the yolks and stir into the dry ingredients. 5. Stir the whites in lightly and bake in a hot oven, finishing off in a cool one. Time about one hour. SHORTBREAD Ingredients : Eight ounces of Flour Six ounces of Butter Two ounces of Castor Sugar Essence of Almonds Candied Peel.CAKES AND BISCUITS 105 1. Beat the butter to a cream with the hand. Add the sugar and mix well. 2. Stir in the flour gradually and knead well. 3. Form into a ball and roll out into a round. 4. Grease a Victoria sandwich tin, fit the shortbread into it, mark the edges using the thumb and first finger and decor- ate with candied peel. 5. Bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Cool in the tin. SHORTBREAD BISCUITS Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Flour Two ounces of Butter Three ounces of Sugar Half an ounce of Candied Peel One Egg. 1. Rub the butter into the flour. 2. Add the sifted sugar, finely minced candied peel and well- beaten egg. 3. Make into a light paste, roll out on a floured board into a thin sheet. 4. Cut into rounds with a cutter or wine glass. 5. Place upon fine white paper and bake in a moderate oven. 6. When cold store in boxes. SODA CAKE Ingredients : One pound of Flour Quarter of a pound of Lard or Butter Quarter of a pound of Sugar Two Eggs Quarter of a pound of Currants One teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda Half a pint of Milk Salt. 1. Rub the tat into the flour. 2. Add the currants, sugar, and a pinch of salt. 3. Dissolve the soda in a little milk and add it with the well beaten eggs to the flour.106 CAKES AND BISCUITS 4. Stir in the rest of the milk and beat well. 5. Line a cake tin with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven for one hour and ten minutes. SNOW CAKE Ingredients : Half a pound of Potato Flour Half a pound of fine white Sugar Quarter of a pound of Butter. Two Eggs Two tablespoonfuls of Flour Half a teaspoonful of Baking Powder Two tablespoonfuls of Milk Essence of Lemon. 1. Cream the butter and add the sugar. 2. Add the well-beaten eggs and stir in the two tablespoonfuls of flour and milk. 3. Then add the potato flour, baking powder and essence. 4. Pour into a cake tin lined with buttered paper. 5. Bake in a cool oven for one hour and ten minutes. BREAD. (Recipe i) Ingredients : One and a half pecks of Flour One pint of Brewer’s Yeast One pint of Lukewarm Water One teaspoonful of Sugar Half a small teacupful of Salt. 1. Measure the flour into a large earthenware pan and place on a chair near the fire to warm. 2. Make a well in the centre of the flour and a ridge round the edge ; scatter the salt round the ridge. 3. Stir the water into the yeast and add the sugar, mix well for a few minutes. 4. Pour the liquor into the well through a hair sieve and mix a little of the flour into it with a wooden spoon. 5. Sprinkle flour over the batter and cover the pan with a thick piece of flannel or baize, and let it stand from half to three quarters of an hour.CAKES AND BISCUITS 1U7 6. Knead into a dough with the hands, pouring in one or two more quarts of lukewarm water. 7. Knead for twenty minutes. 8. Cover again and let the dough rise for two hours. 9. Warm, grease and flour the bread tins. 10. Cut off sufficient dough to more than half fill the tin, knead lightly into shape on a floured board. 11. Place the tins near the fire for half an hour until the dough has risen to the top. Then bake in a hot oven for three quarters of an hour. BREAD. (Recipe 2) Ingredients : Three and a half pounds of Flour One ounce of German Yeast One dessertspoonful of Salt One teaspoonful of Sugar Half an ounce of Lard Lukewarm Water. 1. Cream the yeast, sugar and lard in a small basin. Add a gill of warm water. 2. Put the flour in a basin and add the salt. 3. Stir the yeast into the flour, add sufficient warm water to make a soft dough, and knead lightly. 4r. Grease four or five warmed bread tins, nearly half fill with the dough and place near the fire to rise. 5. When the dough has risen to within half an inch of the top, place in a hot oven and bake from thirty-five to forty minutes. 6. Turn out of the tins and rear up to cool or place upon a sieve. WINE BISCUITS Ingredients : One pound of Flour Half a pound of Sugar Six ounces of Butter Essence of Lemon Two EggsCAKES AND BISCUITS 108 1. Rub the butter into the flour and add the sugar. 2. Add the well-beaten eggs and form into a stiff paste. 3. Roll out on a lightly floured board and cut into rounds. 4. Place on a tin and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. VICTORIA BUNS Ingredients : Half a pound of Flour Two ounces of Butter Two ounces of Sugar One ounce of Sultanas One teaspoonful of Baking Powder A little Lemon Rind One Egg Milk. 1. Rub the butter into the flour, pick the stalks off the sultanas, mix all the dry ingredients together. 2. Beat the eggs and add two or three tablespoonfuls of milk. 3. Pour the egg and milk on to the flour, making a stiff mixture. Add a little more milk if necessary. 4. Place in heaps on a greased tin and bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. N.B.—This quantity should be sufficient for eight or nine buns.EGGS, OMELETTES, AND SAVOURIES AUSTRALIAN KIDNEYS Ingredients : Kidneys Streaky Bacon One Egg Bread Crumbs Toasted Bread Pepper. 1. Skin and cut the kidnej^s in halves, dust each one with pepper. 2. Trim the bacon. In each rasher wrap half a kidney and fasten with a small skewer. 3. Half an hour before breakfast, brush over with beaten egg and cover lightly with fine bread crumbs. 4. Place in a buttered tin and cook in a hot oven for twenty minutes. 5. Serve on strips of toasted bread. BREAKFAST DISH OF EGGS Ingredients : Eggs Butter Vermicelli Fat for Frying Watercress. 1. Put as many eggs as required into a saucepan of cold water, bring to a boil and cook for eight minutes. Drop into cold water. 2. Remove the shells carefully, dip the eggs into melted butter and then into some crushed vermicelli, 100110 EGGS, OMELETTES, AND SAVOURIES 3. Place carefully into boiling fat and fry a golden brown. 4. Drain, arrange on a hot dish, and garnish with thinly-cut and rolled brown bread and butter, and watercress. CHEESE STRAWS Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Flour Two ounces of Butter One and a half ounces of Parmesan Cheese Yolk of an Egg Salt Cold Water. 1. Rub the butter into the flour, add the salt and grated cheese. 2. Mix to a stiff paste with the egg and a little cold water. 3. Roll out on a floured board into a strip four inches wide and a quarter of an inch thick. 4. Cut into straws, place on a floured tin and bake in a moder- ate oven. 5. The straws should be served in bundles tied round with narrow ribbon. CHICKEN MOULDS Ingredients : Batter Cold Chicken Cooked Ham Pepper and Salt Grated Nutmeg Bread Crumbs Bacon Toast. 1. Mince the chicken and ham, mix them together and season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. 2. Butter some moulds and nearly fill with some rich batter. 3. Put a dessertspoonful of the mince into each mould and cover the top with fine bread crumbs. 4. Cook in a hot oven until the batter is set. 5. Turn out on to a hot dish and between each place a roll of grilled bacon. 6. Serve with a rack of thinly-cut toast,EGGS, OMELETTES, AND SAVOURIES 111 EGGS A LA SUISSE Ingredients : One ounce of fresh Butter Four ounces of Parmesan Cheese. Four Eggs Pepper Cayenne Nutmeg Salt. 1. Spread the bottom of a baking dish with butter. 2. Grate the cheese, and sprinkle half of it into the greased dish. . 3. Break the eggs upon the cheese without disturbing the yolks. 4. Cover with the other half of the cheese, over this scatter tiny pieces of butter. 5. Place the dish in the oven for fifteen minutes, or until the eggs are just set. 6. Hold in front of the fire for a few minutes or brown lightly under the toasting grid of a gas stove. 7. Serve very hot. EGGS ON SAVOURY TOAST Ingredients : Four Eggs Toast Rolls of grilled Bacon Potted Meat Parsley Lemon Juice. 1. Spread some nicely-seasoned potted meat over a slice of hot buttered toast. 2. Poach the eggs and lay them on the toast. 3. Scatter a little finely chopped parsley on to each and gar- nish with small rolls of grilled bacon. 4. Squeeze a little lemon juice over and serve. FRICASSEED EGGS Ingredients : Four or five hard-boiled Eggs Half a pint of thick brown Gravy Sippets of Toast Parsley.112 EGGS, OMELETTES, AND SAVOURIES 1. Boil the eggs for ten minutes, throw them into cold water for a minute and remove the shells. 2. Pour the gravy into a saucepan and when thoroughly hot add the eggs cut into round dice. 3. Serve at once on a hot dish, garnished with sippets of toast and parsley. FRIED EGGS, SAUSAGES AND BACON Ingredients : Sausages Rashers of Bacon Eggs Fat for Frying Toast. 1. Cut the required number of sausages into halves, roll each in a rasher of bacon and fasten with a skewer. 2. Place in a pan of boiling fat and fry slowly, turning often. 3. Arrange on a square piece of toast, put into the oven and keep warm. 4. Fry one egg for each person and place them round the toast. 5. Garnish with parsley and send to table very hot. HERB PIE Ingredients : Two Lettuces Three Shalots One pennyworth of Mustard and Cress A handful of picked Spinach Two handfuls of Picked Parsley A few strips of Mint Half an ounce of Butter Half a pound of Flour Two Eggs One pint of Milk Sufficient light pastry to cover the pie-dish. 1. Wash all the herbs in plenty of water and put them into a saucepan with the shalots and butter. 2. Add sufficient water to keep them from burning, stir occa- sionally and cook until tender,EGGS, OMELETTES, AND SAVOURIES 113 3. Drain and chop the herbs finely. 4. Put the flour in a basin and make into a batter with the well-beaten eggs and milk. 5. Grease a pie-dish, throw in the herbs and pour the batter upon them. 6. Cover with pastry, bake in a good oven until the paste is cooked (about half an hour). Serve hot. KIDNEY FRITTERS Ingredients : One Veal Kidney One tablespoonful of minced Shalot One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley One tablespoonful of fine Bread Crumbs Pepper and Salt Grated Nutmeg Cayenne One Egg Vermicelli Lard. 1. Mince the kidney, shalot and parsley. 2. Mix with the bread crumbs and season with pepper, salt and cayenne. Add a little grated nutmeg. 3. Add sufficient well-beaten egg to form the mixture into balls. 4. Dip the balls into vermicelli and fry in boiling lard. 5. Drain upon kitchen paper and serve very hot, garnished with parsley. KIDNEY TOAST Ingredients : Half a pound of Ox Kidney One and a half gills of rich Gravy Pepper and Salt One round of buttered Toast. 1. Mince the kindey and place in a small pan with the gravy. 2. Simmer from fifteen to twenty minutes and season with pepper and salt. 3. Place the toast on a hot dish and pour the mince over. E.D. I114 EGGS, OMELETTES, AND SAVOURIES MACARONI CHEESE Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Macaroni Three ounces of Cheese Half a pint of Milk One ounce of Butter Half an ounce of Flour Salt and Pepper. 1. Throw the macaroni into a saucepan of boiling water. 2. Boil for half an hour. 3. Grate the cheese and divide it into two portions. 4. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and stir in the milk, bring to a boil, stirring all the time. 5. Drain the macaroni and add it to the sauce with half the cheese. 6. Season with pepper and salt and pour into a buttered dish. 7. Scatter the other half of the cheese on the top and pla ce in a very hot oven for ten minutes. 8. Serve at once. MACARONI AND TOMATOES IN BUTTER Ingredients : Three ounces of Macaroni Tomato Sauce Two Eggs Half-pint of Milk One tablespoonful of Ground Rice Butter Juice of one Lemon Water or Stock. 1. Boil the macaroni in water or stock until it is tender, drain and turn into a buttered pie-dish. 2. Cover with a layer of tomato sauce. 3. Beat the eggs and add the milk. Stir in the ground rice and pour into the pie-dish. 4. Dip a few dice-shaped pieces of butter into pepper and place on top of the batter, squeeze the lemon juice over and bake in a moderate oven. 5. When the batter is cooked serve at once.EGGS, OMELETTES, AND SAVOURIES 115 MOCK CRAB SANDWICHES Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Cheddar Cheese One teaspoonful of made Mustard Pepper Grated Nutmeg Vinegar Parmesan Cheese Watercress Brown Bread and Butter. 1. Grate the Cheddar cheese and put it into a basin. 2. Add a little pepper, grated nutmeg and the made mustard. 3. Mix with sufficient vinegar to make a paste. 4. Spread lightly on the bread and butter, sprinkle a little grated Parmesan cheese over and a few watercress leaves. 5. Cut in fingers’ lengths and garnish with parsley. OMELETTE WITH BACON Ingredients : Half a pound of thin rashers of Bacon One ounce of bacon Dripping Three eggs. 1. Remove the rind and cut the bacon into dice-shaped pieces. 2. Melt the bacon dripping in a frying pan. 3. Scald the bacon and drain the water off. 4. Cook in the frying pan for a few minutes. 5. Pour in the well-beaten eggs and, when nearly cooked, hold in front of the fire until the omelette rises. 6. Serve at once. PORRIDGE Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Medium Oatmeal One quart of Water One large teaspoonful of Salt. 1. Boil the water in a saucepan. 2. Add the salt and sprinkle in the oatmeal. 3. Continue stirring and boil for a few minutes. 4. Reduce the heat and simmer from twenty to twenty-five minutes.116 EGGS, OMELETTES, AND SAVOURIES SAUSAGES To Fry.—Prick with a steel fork and fry in a pan of boiling fat over a clear fire, turning often. To Grill.—Plaoe in a Dutch oven, hang the oven in front of a clear fire, turn them once and baste. To Bake.—Place on a buttered baking tin, cook in a hot oven, turn once and serve upon toast. Boiled Sausages are served with mustard sauce. SAVOURY EGGS Ingredients : Three or four Eggs One gill of highly-seasoned Brown Gravy Nutmeg Toast. 1. Place three or four cups in a shallow pan of boiling water. 2. Put a tablespoonful of gravy into each cup and make it boiling hot. 3. Break an egg into each cup, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, cover with a lid until the eggs are nicely poached. 4. Dust a little grated nutmeg over each egg and serve on rounds of hot toast. SAVOURY OMELETTE Ingredients : Four Eggs Two ounces of Onions Two ounces of Bread Crumbs One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley Grated rind of one Lemon Half a teaspoonful of powdered Sage Pepper and Salt to taste One ounce of Lard or Butter. 1. Beat the eggs and chop the onions. 2. Mix all the ingredients together. 3. Melt the butter in an omelette pan and pour in the mixture. 4. Hold the pan over a clear fire and when the omelette is lightly browned on the under side, hold the pan in front of the fire until it rises to twice its height. 5. Dish and send to table at once.EGGS, OMELETTES, AND SAVOURIES 117 SCOTCH EGGS Ingredients : Six Eggs One teacupful of Milk One teacupful of Bread Crumbs Half a pint of finely-chopped Ham One Egg Half a teaspoonful of made Mustard Parsley, 1. Boil the milk and bread crumbs in a saucepan until they are smooth. 2. Beat up one egg, pour into the saucepan and add the ham and seasoning. 3. Boil the eggs for ten minutes, drop into cold water for one minute and remove the shells. 4. Cover the eggs with the mixture and fry in boiling fat until they are a nice brown colour. 5. Drain and serve, garnished with parsley ; or cut them in halves and arrange on a green salad. SHRIMP SANDWICHES Ingredients : One quart of Shrimps Thin Bread and Butter Watercress Finely-chopped Parsley, 1. Skin the shrimps ; cover the shoes of bread and butter with a layer of them and a few nicely picked watercress leaves. 2. Put a little chopped parsley on to each. 3. Cover with a slice of bread and butter, press and cut into finger lengths. TOMATOES WITH BACON Ingredients : Six Tomatoes Six Eggs Half a pound of Bacon Bread Crumbs Pepper Salt.118 EGGS, OMELETTES, AND SAVOURIES 1. Cut off the top of the tomatoes and scoop out a little of the pulp. 2. Mince the bacon and season the bread crumbs. 3. Stuff the tomatoes with the bacon and bread crumbs. 4. Cover the top of each with some thickly-made, rich batter. 5. Place the tomatoes in a pan of boiling fat and cook in the same manner as for fish. 6. Remove the shells from six boiled eggs, dish with the tomatoes and decorate with parsley, TOMATOES WITH EGGS Ingredients : Four or five large Tomatoes Four or five Eggs Butter Parsley. 1. Remove the tops from the tomatoes and part of the inside. 2. Dip each into melted butter and place in a greased dish. 3. Break the eggs carefully and drop one into each tomato. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over them. 4. Bake in a hot oven and serve on the same dish, surrounded with an ornamental paper.SALADS 119 BEETROOT SALAD Ingredients : One Beetroot One cooked Onion One gill of Salad Sauce Parsley. 1. Wash, but do not cut or scrape any part of the beetroot. Place in a pan of boiling water and boil from one and a half to two hours. 2. Pare, trim, and cut into slices. 3. When cold add the sliced onions and decorate with parsley. 4. Pour the sauce over and serve. CAULIFLOWER SALAD Ingredients : One large Cauliflower One small Beetroot One gill of Mayonnaise. 1. Boil the cauliflower, drain it and separate into tufts. 2. Shoe the beetroot and cut into triangular pieces. Then dip them into vinegar and drain for one hour. 3. Arrange the cauliflower on a dish in the form of a pyramid and pour the mayonnaise over. 4. Place a circle of beetroot at the top, points downward, and a circle at the bottom, points upward. 5. Garnish the edges of the dish with some more beetroot and put a sprig of cauliflower on the top of the pyramid. N.B.—This salad must be served at once or the beetroot will colour the mayonnaise.120 SALADS CODFISH SALAD Ingredients : Half to one pound of Cold Boiled Fish One Lettuce One gill of Mayonnaise Sauce. 1. Arrange upon a dish a pile of nicely-washed and drained lettuce. 2. Divide the fish into flakes and arrange tastefully on the dish. 3. Pour the mayonnaise sauce over the fish just before sending in to table. FRENCH BEAN SALAD Ingredients : Two pounds of French Beans One gill of Vinegar Pepper and Salt One gill of Salad Sauce. 1. Trim, slice and boil the beans in the ordinary way. 2. Drain in a colander and when cold sprinkle with pepper and salt, and pour in the vinegar. 3. Drain again, arrange in a salad bowl and pour any salad dressing over. FRUIT SALAD Ingredients : One small tin of Pineapple Half a pound of Victoria Plums Six Bananas and a few Grapes. 1. Slice the bananas and pineapple with a silver knife. Place them with the grapes in a glass bowl. 2. Remove the skins from the plums and slice them. Sift soft sugar over the fruit. 3. Strain and add the juice of the pineapple, POTATO SALAD Ingredients : Cold cooked Potatoes A few slices of Beetroot or Cucumber, or other vegetable Vinegar, Salt and Pepper.SALADS 121 1. Slice the potatoes and season with pepper and salt. Add the vinegar. 2. Decorate with any of the vegetables. SARDINES WITH SLICED TOMATOES Ingredients : One box of Sardines Half a pound of Tomatoes Vinegar. 1. Slice the tomatoes and soak in vinegar for one hour. 2. Remove the sardines from the box and arrange in a block in the centre of a flat dish. 3. Surround the sardines with a wall of sliced tomatoes and place a little of the tomatoes and a few sprigs of water- cress round the edge as a garnish. SPRING SALAD Ingredients : One pennyworth of each of the following vegetables ; Radishes Lettuce Mustard and Cress Spring Onions One gill of Salad Dressing One hard-boiled Egg. 1. Plunge the lettuce into a bowl of salted water for a few minutes. Drain in a cloth. Break into small pieces by hand. (Do not cut the lettuces.) 2. Wash and drain the mustard, cress, and the radishes. 3. Cut up in thin slices one or two spring onions. 4. Place the salad in a bowl and decorate the top with the white of egg. 5. Serve the dressing separately.SALADS 122 SUMMER SALAD Ingredients : One lettuce Four Tomatoes One bunch of Watercress Breast of a cooked Fowl One gill of Mayonnaise Sauce. 1. Break the lettuce off leaf by leaf, wash and drain well. Arrange in a block in the centre of the dish. 2. Cut the meat from the fowl in thin slices and place them on the block of lettuce. 3. Surround with a layer of sliced tomatoes, season with pepper and salt. 4. Garnish with picked, washed and dried lettuce. 5. Before serving pour over the mayonnaise. WINTER SALAD Ingredients : Cold Potatoes One boiled Beetroot One head of Celery Two Apples One gill of Dressing One hard-boiled Egg. 1. Arrange in layers in a bowl the sliced potatoes, beetroot, apples and celery. 2. Decorate with beetroot cut into fancy shapes, and slices of egg. 3. Pour over, just before serving, one gill of salad dressing.123 SAUCES APPLE SAUCE Ingredients : Five large Apples Two tablespoonfuls of Brown Sugar Half an ounce of Butter A little Lemon Juice Water. 1. Peel, core and slice the apples into an enamelled pan. 2. Pour in sufficient water to cover the apples. 3. Stew for half an hour with the lid on. Then add the butter. 4. Add the sugar and lemon juice and mash the apples up with a silver fork. N.B.—Codlins are good faffing apples. The butter and lemon may be left out. This sauce is served with pork and goose. BREAD SAUCE Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Bread Crumbs One pint of Milk Half an ounce of Butter One small Onion Salt and Pepper. 1. Peel the onion and boil it in the milk for ten minutes, 2. Put the bread crumbs into a basin and pour in the milk. 3. Add the butter and season to taste. 4. Return to the saucepan and boil until it is quite thick, 5. Serve in a sauce tureen.SAUCES 124 BROWN SAUCE Ingredients : Two tablespoonfuls of Butter Two tablespoonfuls of Chopped Onions Two tablespoonfuls of Flour One pint of Stock Salt and Pepper, 1. Chop the onion. 2. Melt the butter in a saucepan. 3. Fry the onion in the butter. 4. Remove from the fire and stir in the flour. 5. Pour in gradually a pint of the stock and stir over the fire until it thickens. 6. Season with pepper and salt and simmer for five minutes. CELERY SAUCE Ingredients : One tablespoonful of Flour One gill of Stock One gill of Milk One ounce of Butter Stewed Celery. 1. Melt the butter in a saucepan, remove the pan from the fire and stir in the flour. 2. Add the milk, gradually stirring all the time, and then the stock. 3. Return to the fire, bring to a boil, and add the celery cut into dice. CHOCOLATE SAUCE Ingredients : Two ounces of Vanilla Chocolate Half a pint of Milk Two Eggs. 1. Grate the chocolate into a saucepan. 2. Pour on the milk and stir until hot. 3. Remove from the fire and add the well beaten yolks of the eggs. 4. Stir until thick. 5. Pour the sauce over the pudding and decorate with the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth.125 SAUCES DUTCH SAUCE Ingredients : Six tablespoonfuls of Water Four tablespoonfuls of Vinegar Yolks of two Eggs Pepper Salt Juice of half a Lemon, 1. Warm the water and vinegar in a saucepan. 2. Thicken with the yolks of the eggs. 3. Make the sauce very hot and season with pepper and salt. 4. Add the lemon juice and strain the sauce through a sieve. EGG SAUCE Ingredients : Two Eggs Half a pint of White Sauce, 1. Boil the eggs for ten minutes and then place in cold water. 2. Make a smooth white sauce and season with pepper and salt. 3. Remove the shells. Cut the eggs into thick rounds, and then into dice-shaped pieces. 4. Stir the eggs once round in the sauce and serve in a hot tureen. HORSERADISH SAUCE Ingredients : One teacupful of grated Horseradish One tablespoonful of Moist Sugar One tablespoonful of Mustard Pepper and Salt One teacupful of Vinegar. 1. Mix the sugar, mustard and horseradish in a basin, 2. Season with pepper and salt. 3. Add the vinegar and stir until smooth. 4. Serve in a sauceboat. MAYONNAISE Ingredients : Yolks of two Eggs Two tablespoonfuls of Salad OilSAUCES 126 Two tablespoonfuls of Vinegar One tablespoonful of Cream. 1. Beat the yolks of the eggs well. 2. Add the salad oil drop by drop, stirring continually. 3. When the sauce is of a smooth consistency, stir in the vinegar and lastly the cream, which must be added slowly, MARMALADE SAUCE Ingredients : One teacupful of Marmalade Half a pint of Water Cochineal. Put the marmalade and water into a saucepan and allow it to boil for one minute. Colour with cochineal and strain before serving. MINT SAUCE Ingredients : One tablespoonful of Chopped Mint Half a pint of vinegar Sugar. 1. Wash and chop the mint. 2. Put the mint in a sauceboat and pour over the vinegar. 3. Add sufficient sugar to sweeten. 4. The sauce should be allowed to stand for twenty minutes before serving. MOCK CREAM Ingredients : One tablespoonful of Flour One pint of new Milk The Yolk of one Egg Half an ounce of Butter. 1. Mix the flour and milk together. 2. Pour into an enamelled pan and simmer for five minutes, stirring all the time. 3. Beat the yolk of the egg and the butter together. 4. Stir them into the boiling milk. 5. Pass through a fine sieve and it is ready for use.127 SAUCES ONION SAUCE Ingredients : One pound of Onions One pint of Milk Half a teacupful of Flour. 1. Skin, wash and boil the onions. When half cooked change the water for fresh. 2. Strain and chop upon a board, adding the flour gradually. 3. Make the milk hot in an enamelled pan. Season with pepper and salt. 4. Stir in the onions and bring to a boil. Simmer for five minutes. After the onions have been added to the milk the sauce must be stirred until it is ready. 5. Serve in a hot tureen. SHRIMP SAUCE Ingredients : Two tablespoonfuls of flour One pint of Milk One ounce of Butter One pint of Shrimps Salt and Pepper. 1. Mix together smoothly the flour and nj'lk in a saucepan, 2. Add the butter and season with salt and pe, per. 3. Stir over the fire until it thickens. 4. Pick the shrimps and put them into the saiv2. 5. Serve in a sauce tureen. SAUCE A LA TARTARE Ingredients : Yolks of three hard boiled Eggs One tablespoonful of made Mustard One teaspoonful of Salt Half a teaspoonful of Pepper Two wineglassfuls of Salad Oil. 1. Pound the yolks of the eggs in a mortar until they are quite smooth. 2. Add the mustard, pepper and salt. 3. Pour in the salad oil by degrees and stir until it becomes the consistency of a good thick cream.SAUCES 128 TOMATO SAUCE Ingredients : One pound of Tomatoes One ounce of Butter A bunch of Parsley- Six Shalots Pepper and Salt. 1. Wash and cut up the tomatoes. 2. Melt the butter in a stewpan and add the tomatoes, parsley, shalots, and seasoning to taste. 3. Stir over a slow fire until the tomatoes are cooked. Rub through a wire sieve. 4. Pour the sauce into a jug and place in a pan of boiling water and when quite hot pour into the centre of a dish of cutlets. WHITE SAUCE Ingredients : One ounce of Butter One tablespoonful of Flour Half a pint of Milk Salt and Pepper. 1. Melt the butter in a small enamelled pan. 2. Remove from the fire and stir in the flour with a wooden spoon. 3. Add the milk gradually until the flour is quite smooth and the sauce free from lumps. 4. Return to the fire. Stir quickly, bring to a boil, add the salt and pepper and boil for another five minutes. 5. Serve very hot.PRESERVES APPLE GINGER Ingredients : Allow three pounds of Apples to every two pounds of Sugar Ginger Lemon. 1. Peel, core and quarter the apples. 2. Put alternate layers of sugar and apples into a wide-mouthed jar, adding a quarter of a pound of the best white ginger. 3. On the following day infuse about an ounce of bruised ginger in rather less than half a pint of boiling water. Cover closely. 4. On the second day put the apples into a preserving pan with the water drained from the ginger, and boil until the apples and the syrup look clear, about one hour. 5. Throw in the rind of a lemon before taking the pan from the fire. 6. Pour into jars. Leave them uncovered for a day or two, and then tie down with paper and bladders. N.B.—Care must be taken when stirring not to break the fruit. APPLE JELLY Ingredients : Apples Preserving Sugar Rind and Juice of a Lemon, 1. Wash and dry the apples. 2. Slice them into a preserving pan. 3. Place on the fire and pour on sufficient water to cover the apples. 189 rrPRESERVES 130 4. Simmer for six or eight hours. 5. Strain through jelly bags. 6. Allow three quarters of a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Add the rind and juice of the lemon. 7. Bring to a boil, and boil from three quarters of an hour to one hour. 8. Remove the scum as it rises. 9. Pour into jars, cover with paper and store in a dry place. TO BOTTLE FRUIT 1. Pick the fruit carefully and put into clean dry bottles. 2. Cover with bladders and tie a band of hay round each bottle. 3. Stand the bottles in a large pot of cold water, reaching up to the necks. 4. Let the water boil, prick the bladders when they begin to rise. 5. As soon as the water boils, remove the pot from the fire and take out the bottles when they are cold. 6. On the following day remove the bladders and strew a thick layer of crushed sugar in each bottle. 7. Fit the bottles with corks and cover with wax, resin or bottle cement. N.B.—Do not use Castor Sugar. DAMSON CHEESE 1. Pick off any stalks and wipe the fruit with a clean cloth. 2. Place the damsons in a brown jar and tie down with paper. 3. Bake in a slow oven until the fruit is quite soft. 4. Rub through a colander. 5. Measure the juice and allow one and a quarter pounds of crushed lump sugar to every quart of juice. 6. Put the sugar and juice into a preserving pan and boil over a clear fire until the preserve is quite stiff, stirring con- tinually for about two hours. 7. Crack the stones, blanch the kernels and put them into the pan a few minutes previous to pouring the fruit into the pots. 8. Pour into small pots and when cold tie down with paper. 9. Store in a dry cupboard.131 PRESERVES LEMON MARMALADE 1. Choose lemons with clear skins. 2. Cut each lemon in half and squeeze out the juice and pulp. 3. Boil the rinds in water until tender, changing the water three times. 4. Pound the rinds in a mortar. 5. Pass the juice and pulp through a sieve and weigh with the pounded rind. 6. Put the fruit into a preserving pan with double the weight of sugar. 7. Bring to a boil and simmer over a clear fire for three-quarters of an hour. 8. Pour into warm jars and when cool tie down with brandy papers and fasten securely. ORANGE MARMALADE Ingredients : Four and a half pounds of Seville Oranges (cut up) Eighteen pounds of sugar Eleven and a half pints of Water. 1. First wipe and then peel the oranges. Shred the peel. 2. Slice the oranges finely, removing the white skin and pips. 3. Weigh the fruit and peel and place in a large basin. 4. Pour the water over and soak for twenty-four hours. 5. Boil in a preserving pan until tender, from three-quarters to one hour. 6. Turn out into a large bowl, and when cold add the sugar. 7. When the sugar has dissolved, pour into a preserving pan, bring to a boil, add the fruit, and continue boiling for half an hour. 8. Pour into warm pots and leave until cold. Cover with brandy papers. PLUM JAM Ingredients : To every pound of Plums allow Three quarters of a pound of Sugar.PRESERVES 132 1. Divide the plums and remove the stones. 2. Put the fruit and sugar into a large bowl for six hours. 3. Pour into a preserving pan, bring to a boil and simmer slowly for half an hour. 4. Remove any scum as it rises with a wooden spoon, and stir the jam continually. 5. Throw in a few of the blanched kernels. 6. Pour into warm jars, cover with brandy papers and then tie down with parchment jam covers. RED CURRANT JELLY 1. The fruit must be ripe and dry. 2. Strip the fruit off the stalks and place in a large preserving pan. Cover with a lid and tie down with paper. 3. Place in a cool oven for one hour. 4. Strain through a sieve into a clean vessel and allow a pound and a half of crushed lump sugar to every quart of juice. 5. Stir gently over the fire until the sugar is melted. 6. Boil steadily for twenty minutes and skim well. 7. Pour the jelly into hot pots. Cover with brandy papers, tie down with parchment covers and store in a dry place. N.B.—Black or white currant jelly may be made in the same manner. RHUBARB JAM Ingredients : To every Pound of trimmed Rhubarb allow One pound of Sugar Rind of half a Lemon Half an ounce of chopped Almonds. 1. Wash, wipe and cut the rhubarb into two inch lengths. 2. Put the rhubarb and sugar into a preserving pan, place over a slow fire and stir until the sugar is dissolved. 3. Add the grated lemon rind and chopped almonds, bring to a boil and simmer for three-quarters of an hour. 4. Remove the scum as it rises. 5. Pour into warm pots and tie down with paper.PRESERVES 133 TOMATO JAM Ingredients : To every three pounds of Green Tomatoes allow One pound of Ripe Tomatoes To every One pound of Fruit allow One pound of Sugar To every pound of Sugar allow One gill of Water Juice of one Lemon, 1. Boil the green tomatoes until they are just tender. Skin and slice the ripe and the boiled fruit. 2. Put the sugar and water into a preserving pan and bring to a boil. Stir continually. 3. Add the sliced tomatoes to the boiling syrup and simmer slowly until they resemble jam. 4. Pour in the lemon juice and, if liked, add a little ground ginger. 5. When cold, pour into jars and tie down with paper. VEGETABLE MARROW PRESERVE Ingredients : A large Vegetable Marrow Preserving Sugar Ginger Lemons. 1. Peel and cut the marrow, first into strips and then into chunks about half an inch in size ; remove the pulp and seeds. 2. Weigh the fruit and to every pound of fruit allow one pound of sugar, 3. Leave the marrow and sugar in a large basin over night. 4. To every five pounds of marrow allow two ounces of bruised ginger and three lemons. 5. Peel the lemons, cut the rind into thin strips and squeeze out the juice. 6. Put the marrow, ginger, rind and juice of the lemons into a preserving pan and boil gently from three to four hours. The marrow should be soft and the juice thick and trans- parent.PICKLES BENGAL CHUTNEY Ingredients : Four and a half pounds of Normandy Pippins Three quarters of a pound of Castor Sugar Three quarters of a pound of Raisins Quarter of a pound of Ground Salt Half a pound of bruised Mustard Seed Quarter of a pound of chopped Garlic An eggspoonful of Cayenne Pepper. 1. Split the apples, take out the cores and put them into a stewpan with half of the sugar. 2. Boil the apples until tender and beat to a pulp with a wooden spoon. 3. Stone and chop the raisins. 4. Mix all the ingredients together and add a little cold vinegar. 5. Store in stone jars. N.B.—If the chutney is too thick add a little vinegar. CHUTNEY Ingredients : One and a quarter pounds of Moist Sugar Half a pound of Salt Half a pound of Raisins Half a pound of Mustard Seed Quarter of a pound of Ginger Quarter of a pound of Onions Two and a half ounces of Garlic Two ounces of Chilies Two dozen Cooking Apples Three pints of Vinegar.PICKLES 135 1. Peel, core and chop the apples, onions, raisins and garlic finely. 2. Bruise the ginger and mix all the ingredients together, 3. Boil for one hour and store in bottles and jars. PICKLED DAMSONS Ingredients : To every Quart of Damsons allow Six ounces of Lump Sugar One pint of Wine Vinegar 1. The damsons must not be too ripe and the stalks must be left on. 2. Prick the damsons all over with a darning needle. 3. Boil the sugar and vinegar together and pour at once over the fruit. 4. The following day strain off the syrup and boil it with quarter of an ounce of cloves. 5. Pour the syrup over the damsons and leave for a whole day. 6. On the third morning pour the pickle into a preserving pan and simmer gently, being careful not to break the fruit. 7. Pour into glass bottles and tie down with bladders. PICKLED RED CABBAGE 1. Trim the cabbage and cut into slices on a chopping board. 2. Sprinkle with plenty of salt and let it stand for one night. 3. Rub in a clean coarse cloth, and put into stone jars. 4. To every quart of vinegar allow one ounce of mixed spice and a teaspoonful of sugar. Bring to a boil. 5. When the vinegar is cold pour over the cabbage, which must be well covered with the liquor. 6. The pickle is ready for use in seven days, but the colour improves if kept longer.136 PICKLES PICKLED WALNUTS Ingredients : Eighty young Walnuts One ounce of mixed Spice to every Quart of Vinegar Salt Water, 1. Prick the walnuts with a fork or darning needle. 2. Make a brine of three ounces of salt to every quart of water. 3. Cover the walnuts with the brine and let them soak in this for six days. 4. Drain the walnuts and place them on a dish in the sun to dry and blacken for two days. 5. Add the spice to the vinegar and make it thoroughly hot. Pour at once over the walnuts, which must be covered with the pickle. 6. Place in jars and tie down with bladders.137 HOME-MADE DRINKS APPLEADE Ingredients : Three large Apples One quart of boiling Water Honey. 1. Slice the apples into a jug. 2. Pour the boiling water over the apples, 3. Sweeten with honey to taste. 4. Strain and stand upon ice. COFFEE 1. Grind the coffee berries. 2. Put one and a half ounces of the ground coffee into a coffee pot. Pour in one pint of boiling water and bring the coffee to a boil. 3. Pour into a cup two or three times, returning to the coffee pot. 4. Add a pinch of isinglass which has been previously dis- solved in a little boiling water. 5. Boil for three minutes and keep the pot near the fire for ten minutes. GINGER BEER Ingredients : Two ounces of Ginger Three pounds of Loaf Sugar Three ounces of Cream of Tartar Two Lemons (the juice of one only) One tablespoonful of Yeast White of one Egg.138 HOME-MADE DRINKS 1. Bruise the ginger and place it in a large stone vessel. Add the sugar, cream of tartar, juice of one lemon and the rind of two. 2. Pour four gallons of boiling water on these ingredients and, when nearly cold, stir in the yeast mixed to a cream with a teaspoonful of sugar and beaten with the white of an egg. 3. Mix all well together and let it stand for one night. 4. Strain through a sieve, bottle in stone bottles, cork and tie down with wire or string. LEMONADE. (Recipe i) Ingredients : Two pounds of loaf Sugar One pint of Water One ounce of Citric Acid Twenty drops of Essence of Lemon. 1. Boil the sugar and water together in a saucepan. 2. Skim and pour into a jug. 3. When nearly cold add the citric acid and lemon essence. 4. Stir well and pour into a decanter. 5. Use a tablespoonful to a tumbler of water. LEMONADE. (Recipe 2) Ingredients : Six Lemons One quart of Water Twelve ounces of Lump Sugar. 1. Pare the rind off the lemon thinly and put into a large jug. 2. Add the sugar and very hot water. 3. Stand over night, add the strained lemon juice and pass through a bag until it looks clear. N.B.—A teacupful of rose or orange flower water might be added if liked. LIQUORICE, FIGS AND RAISINS Ingredients : Two ounces of Figs One ounce of Liquorice Two ounces of Raisins One quart of Water Two ounces of Barley.139 HOME-MADE DRINKS 1. Wash and scald the barley, throw into an enamelled pan and pour the water over. 2. Boil gently for one hour. 3. Put the figs, raisins and liquorice into a large jug, strain the boiling barley water over them and stir for ten minutes. 4. This drink is ready for use when it is quite cold. RASPBERRY VINEGAR Ingredients : Allow Six quarts of Raspberries to every Quart of Vinegar, and One pound of lump Sugar to every Pint of Liquid. 1. Put the vinegar into a china bowl, add two quarts of rasp berries and let them stand for twenty-four hours. 2. Drain away the raspberries and put in two quarts of fresh fruit ; stand again for the same length of time, and repeat the process a third time. 3. Measure the liquid, pour it into an unglazed jar, and to every pint allow one pound of lump sugar. 4. Stand the jar up to the neck in boiling water, bring to a boil and boil for ten minutes, stirring frequently. RHUBARB WINE Ingredients : Six pounds of Rhubarb Stalk One Gallon of Cold Water One Lemon Four pounds of Loaf Sugar Quarter of a pound of Isinglass. 1. Cut the rhubarb into two-inch lengths and throw into a large stone vessel. 2. Add the water and stir up well two or three times a day for six days. 3. Strain off into another vessel, and add the sliced lemon and loaf sugar.HOME-MADE DRINKS 140 4. Stir until the sugar is dissolved, and do not touch again for ten days. 5. Put a double piece of muslin over the mouth of a funnel, and strain the liquor through into a clean cask without disturbing the sediment at the bottom. 6. Dissolve the isinglass in a tablespoonful of boiling water and stir into the wine. 7. After six months strain the liquor as before. Draw off into bottles, first placing a lump of sugar in each. 8. Keep for twelve months before using.141 SICK ROOM RECIPES BARLEY WATER Ingredients : Four ounces of Barley One quart of Water One Lemon Sugar to taste. 1. Wash the barley in a strainer. 2. Put it into an enamelled pan and cover with cold water. 3. Bring to a boil and strain away the water. Add another quart of water and the lemon rind. 4. When boiling, reduce the heat and simmer for one and a half to two hours. 5. Strain and add the sugar and lemon juice, BEEF TEA Ingredients : Half a pound of Shin of Beef Half a pint of Water Half a teaspoonful of Salt. 1. Put the water and salt in a small basin, 2. Scrape the meat with a small sharp knife. 3. Put the meat in the water and let it stand for half an hour. 4. Pour into a jar, cover with a lid and tie down with brown paper. 5. Stand the jar in a saucepan of hot water, bring to a boil and simmer for half an hour. 6. Strain, remove any grease and serve very hot, with sippets of toast.142 SICK-ROOM RECIPES BLACK CURRANT LOZENGES Ingredients : Quarter of a pound of Sugar One third of a pint of Black Currant Juice One ounce of Gelatine. 1. Cut up the gelatine and dissolve it in a gill of water. 2. Add the juice and sugar, and simmer for twenty minutes. 3. Pour out in layers about one quarter of an inch deep on to tins. When nearly cold, stamp, cut into shapes and dust lightly with sugar. CALVES’ FEET JELLY Ingredients : Two Calves’ Feet Three quarts of Water One pint of White Wine Half a pound of Loaf Sugar Juice of three Lemons and the Rind of two Lemons Whites of two Eggs One ounce of Isinglass. 1. Put the calves’ feet into the water, bring to a boil and then simmer until only one quart of the liquid remains. 2. When cold, remove the fat, and with a spoon take the jelly carefully off the sediment. 3. Put the jelly in a brass saucepan, add the wine, thinly- peeled lemon rind, lemon juice, isinglass and the sugar. 4. Add the partly whisked whites, and continue whisking until it boils. 5. Stand the saucepan by the side of the fire for ten minutes. 6. Pour some boiling water through a jelly bag or cloth, and pass the jelly through several times into a clean basin until it runs clear. 7. Pour into a mould that has previously been soaked in cold water for one hour. CUP OF ARROWROOT Ingredients : One dessertspoonful of Arrowroot Half a pint of Milk One teaspoonful of Castor Sugar.143 SICK-ROOM RECIPES 1. Mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste with a tablespoonful of milk and add the sugar. 2. Put the milk in a saucepan, and when boiling pour on to the arrowroot, stirring until it thickens. 3. Serve hot in a cup. CUP CUSTARDS Ingredients : Two Eggs One pint of Milk One tablespoonful of Sugar Flavouring 1. Beat the eggs and add the milk, sugar and flavouring. 2. Pour into a jug. 3. Stand in a saucepan half full of boiling water, 4. Stir until the custard thickens. 5. Remove the jug from the fire and continue stirring until nearly cold. 6. Pour into eight custard glasses and serve cold. GRUEL Ingredients : One tablespoonful of fine Oatmeal One breakfastcupful of Water One breakfastcupful of Milk One teaspoonful of Salt Nutmeg. 1. Mix the fine oatmeal smoothly with the water and pour into a saucepan. 2. Add the milk, salt and a little nutmeg. 3. Continue stirring until it boils. Simmer gently for ten minutes. 4. Serve immediately in a hot basin. EGG JELLY Ingredients : Three Eggs Three Lemons Three quarters of a pound of Castor Sugar Three quarters of a pint of boiling Water One pint of New Milk Twenty sheets of Leaf GelatineSICK-ROOM RECIPES 144 1. Cut up the gelatine, place in a large bowl, pour the boiling water over, add the sugar and stir until both dissolve. 2. Add the grated rind of half a lemon and beat the eggs well. 3. Pour the milk into the eggs, stir and add the dissolved gelatine and sugar ; stir well. 4. Strain the lemon juice and pour gradually into the jelly, stirring all the time. 5. Pour into a mould and serve when set. INVALID EGG PUDDING Ingredients : One Egg One teaspoonful of Flour One tablespoonful of Milk A pinch of Salt. 1. Mix the flour and milk together and add the salt. 2. Stir in the egg well beaten. 3. Strain into a buttered cup. 4. Stand in boiling water and simmer for twenty minutes. 5. Serve with castor sugar. LINSEED TEA Ingredients : Two ounces of Linseed One ounce of Sugar Candy Strips of Lemon Peel One and a half pints of Water. 1. Put all the ingredients into an enamelled saucepan, bring to a boil and simmer from one to two hours. 2. Strain, and add the juice of half a lemon. 3. Serve hot or cold. N.B.—If liked, an ounce of liquorice root may be added to the above ingredients, in which case, omit the rind and juice of the lemon. SEMOLINA PUDDING Ingredients : One and a half pints of Milk Three tablespoonfuls of Semolina Two Eggs One and a half tablespoonfuls of Moist Sugar Nutmeg.SICK-ROOM RECIPES 145 1. Boil the milk in an enamelled pan. 2. Stir in the semolina with a wooden spoon. 3. Bring to a boil and cook until the semolina thickens. 4. Allow it to cool a little, stir in the well-beaten eggs and add the sugar. 5. Pour into a buttered pie-dish. 6. Grate a little nutmeg on the top. 7. Bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. STEAMED FISH FOR AN INVALID Ingredients : One small plaice filleted. 1. Wash and dry the fillets. 2. Roll the fillets and place them on a greased saucer. Cover with another saucer or plate. 3. Place in a steamer and steam from fifteen to twenty minutes. 4. Serve very hot on a small dish, cover with a little white sauce and decorate with parsley and a thin slice of lemon. LSUNDRIES p BAKING POWDER Ingredients : Half a pound of Ground Rice Quarter of a pound of Carbonate of Soda Three ounces of Tartaric Acid. 1. The ingredients and the bottles in which the powder is to be stored must be perfectly dry. 2. Put the rice, soda and tartaric acid on a sieve, and rub through on to a dry board or plate, and then pass the powder through a second time. 3. Store in bottles and keep in a dry place. BROWNING FOR GRAVIES Ingredients : Two ounces of Sugar One breakfastcupful of Water 1. Put the sugar into a small iron saucepan and place on the fire. 2. Stir frequently with an iron spoon. 3. Add the water gradually. 4. When all the sugar is dissolved store in bottles. BUTTER SCOTCH Ingredients ; One pound of Sugar Half a pound of Butter Juice of a Lemon Cupful of Water. 1. Put the water and lemon juice into a saucepan and add the sugar. 2. Boil until brittle. 3. Add the butter and boil for another six minutes. 4. Pour into buttered tins. 5. When cold mark into squares, 148 tuasam147 INDEX PAGE PAGE SOUPS. Kedgeree .... 31 Potted Herrings . • • 31 Brown Stock . Cauliflower Soup . * • 17 17 Soused Mackerel . Sprats • • 32 32 Celery Soup • 18 Green Pea Soup . • 18 Kidney Soup . • 19 VEGETABLES. Lentil Soup • 19 Macaroni Soup • 20 Baked Spanish Onions • 33 Mutton Broth . • 20 Baked Tomatoes . • 33 Oxtail Soup • 21 Boiled Cabbage • 33 Pea Soup .... 21 Boiled Carrots • 33 Potato Soup • 22 Boiled Cauliflowers 34 Scotch Broth . • 22 Boiled Lettuce 34 Sheep’s Head Soup • 23 Boiled Marrow 35 Tomato Soup . 23 Boiled Peas 35 Vegetable Soup • 24 Boiled Potatoes 35 White Stock • 24 Boiled Seakale . 36 Boiled Turnips with White Sauce .... 36 FISH. Carrots and Poached Eggs 36 Fried Potatoes • 37 Baked Fresh Herrings • 30 Haricot Beans . • 34 Baked Haddock 26 Jerusalem Artichokes • 37 Boiled Dried Haddock 26 Mashed Potatoes . 36 Boiled Fish 27 Mushrooms in Batter. • 37 Boiled Sole 27 Mushrooms and Gravy • 38 Fish Cakes .... 28 Puree of Green Peas . • 38 Fish fried in Batter . 28 Spinach .... • 38 Fish Pie .... 29 Stewed Artichokes • 39 Fish and Potato Mould 29 Stewed Celery 39 Flaked Cod 29 Stewed Cucumbers . 39 Fried Plaice . 30 Vegetable Curry . . 39 Fried Sole .... 31 Vegetable Marrow with Eggs 40INDEX 148 PAGE Vegetarian Dish .... 40 MEATS. Australian Kidneys . . , 109 Beef Steak and Kidney Pie . 42 Beef Steak Pudding . . 42 Boiled Bacon . • • 43 Boiled Beef 43 Boiled Ham Boiled Mutton and Parsley 44 Sauce 44 Boiled Rabbit. 45 Broiled Beef Steak 45 Chicken Curry # 46 Chicken Moulds 110 Cold Veal and White Sauce . 47 Cornish Pasties 47 Curried Mutton 48 Fricasseed Fowl Grilled Chickens with Mush- 48 rooms 49 Haricot Mutton 49 Irish Stew . . 50 Kidney Fritters 113 Liver and Bacon . 50 Minced Veal 51 Mutton Chops . 51 Mutton Cutlets 52 Pig’s Fry . . . 52 Poor Man’s Goose . 52 Potato Pie 53 Potted Beef 53 Pressed Beef . 54 Ragout of Turkey . , 54 Rissoles 55 Roast Ducks . 56 Roast Goose 56 Roast Leg of Pork 57 Roast Rabbit . 68 Roast Turkey . , . 57 Sausages .... Sausages and Mashed Pota- 116 toes .... 58 Sausage Rolls . , . 59 Scotch Collops • 59 Sea Pie 60 Sheep’s Head .... PAGE . 60 Sheeps’ Tongues . . 61 Stewed Beef Steak . . . 61 Stewed Ox Kidney . 62 Stewed Leg of Beef . . 62 Stewed Oxtail . 63 Stuffed Fillet of Veal. . 63 Sweetbreads and Kidney. . 64 Toad in the Hole . 64 Tripe and Onions . 05 PIES AND PASTRY. Beef Steak and Kidney Pie 42 Flaky Pastry 74 Herb Pie . . . . . .112 Potato Pie 53 Rough Puff Pastry ... 86 Sea Pie 60 Short Pastry 86 Suet Pastry for Fruit Pud- dings 90 PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. Almond Cheesecakes . . 66 Almond Custard . . 66 Apple Pudding witli Rice . 67 Apple and Custard Baked . 67 Banana Custard . 67 Bread and Butter Pudding . 68 Bread Pudding, Baked . . 68 Casserole of Sweet Rice . . 69 Cheap Custard . 69 Chocolate Custard . 70 Chocolate Mould . . 70 Chocolate Tart . 71 Christmas Dumpling . 71 Christmas Pudding . 72 Cup Custards .... . 143 Easy Pudding .... . 72 Egg Jelly Eleanor’s Pudding . 73 . 73 Flaky Pastry .... . 74INDEX 149 TAGE Fig Pudding . . • 74 Fruit Salad . . 120 Ground Rice Blancmange 75 Golden Pudding . • • 75 Hunter’s Pudding. • • 76 Jam Roly .... • • 76 Invalid Egg Pudding . • • 141 Leicester Pudding. • • 77 Lemon Pudding . • 77 Lemon Curd . , « 77 Lemon Sponge. • • 78 Macedoine 78 Mincemeat . . , , 79 Mock Cream . # , 126 Omelette Souffle et Moulee . 79 Pancakes .... 80 Parson’s Pudding . • • 80 Pineapple Fritters • • 81 Pineapple Cream . . 81 Plain Pudding and Chocolate Sauce .... . . 82 Prune Jelly . . 82 Queen’s Pudding . . . . 82 Raspberry Charlotte . . • 83 Rice Custards , , 83 Rice Pancakes , , 84 Rice Pudding • . 84 Rolled French Pudding • 86 Rolled Treacle Pudding . • 85 Rough Puff Pastry . s 86 Sago Pudding • • 86 Semolina Pudding. • 144 Short Pastry . 86 Souffle Pudding . . 87 Souffle of Rice and Apples . 87 Spanish Trifle . . 88 Sponge Cake Pudding • • 88 Sponge Cream • 89 Sweet Omelette . . 89 Stewed Gooseberries . 89 Stewed Plums # . 90 Stuffed Apples . . 90 Suet Pastry for Fruit Puddings 90 Suet Pudding . , 91 Tapioca Pudding . • , 91 Treacle Sponge • . 92 Vermicelli Pudding # , 92 Yorkshire Pudding # , 92 White Pears in Sugar . 93 PAGE CAKES, BISCUITS AND BREAD. Arrowroot Biscuits . 94 Breakfast Rolls . 94 Brown Bread .... . 95 Chocolate Biscuits (Recipe 1) 95 Chocolate Biscuits (Recipe 2) 96 Cocoanut Biscuits. . 96 Cocoanut Cake . 97 Coventry Cakes . 97 Delicious Cake . 98 Derby Cakes .... . 98 Five Minutes Cake . 98 Genoa Cake .... . 99 Gingerbread .... . 99 Lemon Biscuits . 100 Light Cake .... . 100 London Biscuits . . 101 Macaroons .... . 102 Madeira Cake (Recipe 1). . 102 Madeira Cake (Recipe 2). . 103 Milk Biscuits .... . 103 Ormskirk Biscuits. . 103 Scones . 104 Seed Cake . 104 Shortbread . 104 Shortbread Biscuits . . 105 Soda Cake .... . 105 Snow Cake .... . 106 Victoria Buns . 108 White Bread (Recipe 1) . . 106 White Bread (Recipe 2) . . 107 Wine Biscuits . 107 EGGS, OMELETTES AND SAVOURIES Australian Kidneys . . . 109 Breakfast Disk of Eggs . . 109 Chicken Moulds . . . .110 Cheese Straws . . . .110 Eggs a la Suisse . . . .111 Eggs on Savoury Toast . .111 Fricasseed Eggs . . . .111 Fried Eggs, Bacon and Sau- sages U2INDEX 150 Herb Pie . . . PAGE . . 112 Kidney Fritters . 113 Kidney Toast 113 Macaroni Cheese 114 Macaroni and Tomatoes in Batter .... 114 Mock Crab Sandwiches • • 115 Omelette with Bacon. 115 Porridge .... 110 Sausages .... 116 Savoury Eggs . . . 116 Savoury Omelette. 116 Scotch Eggs . 117 Shrimp Sandwiches . 117 Tomatoes with Bacon 117 Tomatoes with Eggs . • 118 SALADS. Beetroot Salad . . .119 Cauliflower Salad . . . .119 Codfish Salad . . .120 French Bean Salad . . .120 Fruit Salad . . .120 Potato Salad . . . .120 Sardine Salad . . . .121 Spring Salad . . . .121 Summer Salad. . . .122 Winter Salad . . . .122 PAGE Parsley Sauce . . . ^45 Sauce k la Tartare . . . 127 Sage and Onions .... 58 Shrimp Sauce . . . .127 Tomato Sauce . . . .128 White Sauce 128 PRESERVES. Apple Ginger 129 Apple Jelly 129 Bottled Fruit 130 Damson Cheese . . . .130 Lemon Marmalade . . .131 Orange Marmalade . . .131 Plum Jam 131 Red Currant Jelly . . .132 Rhubarb Jam 132 Tomato Jam 133 Vegetable Marrow Preserve . 133 PICKLES. Bengal Chutney . . 134 Chutney . 134 Damson Pickle . 135 Red Cabbage .... . 135 Walnut Pickle . . . . 136 SAUCES. Apple Sauce .... . 123 Bread Sauce .... . 123 Brown Sauce .... . 124 Celery Sauce .... . 124 Chocolate Sauce . . 124 Dutch Sauce .... . 125 Egg Sauce . 125 Horseradish Sauce . 125 Marmalade Sauce . . 126 Mayonnaise .... . 125 Mint Sauce .... . 126 Mock Cream .... . 126 Onion Sauce .... . 127 HOME-MADE DRINKS. Appleade 137 Barley Water 141 Coffee 137 Ginger Beer 137 Lemonade (Recipe 1) . .138 Lemonade (Recipe 2) . .138 Linseed Tea 144 Liquorice, Figs and Raisins 138 Raspberry Vinegar . . . 139 Rhubarb Wine .... 140. 146 20 151 Mutton Broth INDEX Butter Scotch PAGE PAGE SICK ROOM RECIPES. Raw Meat Juice . . 12 Peptonised Milk . . 13 Bariev Water 141 Semolina Pudding . 144 Beef Tea 141 Steamed Fish . . . . 145 Black Currant Lozenges . 142 Calves’ Feet Jelly.... 142 Cup of Arrowroot. 142 Custard 143 MISCELLANEOUS. Gruel 143 Invalid Egg Jelly .... 143 Baking Powder . 146 Linseed Tea 144 Browning for Gravies . 146I