22101417365ADVERTISEMENTS. EVERY MOTHER who values Beauty and Health in her child should use the greatest possible care in selecting for its - Toilet a proper Soap. A bad soap :: [[ may be productive of life=long injury * *■ to a delicate and sensitive skin, * * ;f whereas a good one will preserve | I iX and enhance the beautiful com» plexion natural to infancy. PEARS'Soap has received THE ONLY GOLD MEDAL ever awarded solely for Toilet Soap - at any International Exhibition in ][ ^- the world oADVERTISEMENTS. THE PERFECT WHEAT FOOD, DAINTY, NOURISHING. ** PAROL A is immeasurably superior to arroAvroot, corn flour, sago, ^vc. With milk it forms exquisite puddings, and in the nursery it will prove a valuable variety which children will take with avidity. Liverpool Medico-Chirurgical Journal. " An ideal form of giving farinaceous food with milk."—A London Physician. Supplied to the Household I Supplied to the Household of I of H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. \ H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. AWARDED GrOLD MEDALS at the two important International Exhilntions held in 1886—Edinburgh and Liverpool—two'years before any imitations were IN THE MARKET. FAROLA is a highly refined preparation of Wheat, which conserves all the nutritive elements and fine flavour naturally belonging to the purest part of the grain. All irritating and indigestible matter has been reinoved by careful treatment, mechanical means only being employed. FAROLA will satisfy a robust appetite, but it is specially suited for invalids and children. Send post card for Descriptive Bool< witti Recipes {post free). JAMES MARSHALL, 25 East Cumberland Street, GLASGOW. X Supersedes Raw Suet, Lard, and Cooking Butter, for Puddings, Cakes, Mince Meat, Pie Crust, Frying and Cooking. Made from best English Beef Suet only! Saves trouble of Chopping. One Pound goes as far as two pounds of Raw Suet! Always sweet! All grocers and provision dealers sell it, or can get it for you, but if you can't get it send 8d. in stamps to the Sole Makers, HUGON & CO., Ltd., Pendleton, MANCHESTER, they will send you a One Pound Sample Package and the name of the nearest dealer. SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR HOT CLIMATES.ADVERTISEMENTS, Cookery an Art. EVERYONE is concerned in the subject of cookery. Though all cannot cook, all must eat, and health and happiness depend to a much greater extent than many people are aware upon what we eat. It is not to be wondered at, therefore, tiiat cookery has become quite an art. Books are being written on the subject nearly every day, and classes a)-e held all over the country to assist us in solving the ever recurring problem of what shall we eat, and how shall we cook our food ? In cooking, as is so often the case, it is the apparently small things that make the difference between success and failure; digestion and indigestion. Many years ago the Emperor Napoleon's chef once remarked that " The very soul of cookery is the stock pot, and the best stock is his remark, so that there are now very few households where Liebig Company's EKtract is not used, and used almost daily, in the kitchen. Most sauces, meat pies, curries and made dishes will be vastly improved by adding a little extract, wliile for gravies and soups it acts like a cook's talisman, making everything go smoothly and end satis- factorily. Its efficiency recommends it, but, owing to its perfect con- centration, economy doubly recommends it. Successful articles always have hosts of imitators, so you will find many Liebig's Extracts, but only one Liebig Company's Extract. This is the original and the only one with which Justus von Liebig ever had any connection, his blue signature across the label is the guarantee that you get it. COMPANY'S EXTRACT. Liebig Com- pany's Ex- tract o f Beef," and the advance made in cookery in Great Britain day in the direction of light, tasty, digestibl e dishes, made highly nour- ishing, has only served to emphasise the truth of since that LIEBIG iTo face Title.TEE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY, Buckingham Palace Eoad, S.W. HIGH-CLASS COOKERY KECIPES, AS TAUGHT IN THE SCHOOL. BY MRS. CHAELES CLAEKE, THE LADY SUPEEINTENDENT. SEVENTH EDITION, LONDON: PBINTED AND PUBLISHED FOE TilE LADY SUPERINTENDENT OF THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY, BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, 13, CHARING CROSS, S.W. # 1897. (All rights reserved.) s ,M 151^7 io WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. mm-SUMMARY OF RULES, FEES, Etc., OF THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY. Patron—K.n.B: THE PRINCE OF WALES, K.G. President—THE DUKE OF WESTMINSTER, K.G. Vice-President—TR^ MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON, K.G. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The Hon. E. F. Leveson-Gower, Chairman. Sir Daniel Cooper, Bart., G.C.M.G., Vice-Chairman. The Duke of Abercorn, K.G., C.B. James Bateman, Esq., F.R.S. The Duke of Beaufort, K.G. W. Burdett-Coutts, Esq., M.P. A. W. Fitz Roy, Esq. Lord Loch, G.C.B., G.C.M.G. The Hon. Edward Lyulph Stanley. Col. The Hon. W. P. Talbot. Capt. The Hon. John Manners Yorke, R.N. Lady Superintendent—Mrs. Charles Clarke. Secretary—Fox. Students are trained for Teachers' Cookery Di- plomas, recognised by the Education Department; also Diplomas for Laundry, Needlework, and Dressmaking, and Certificates in Millinery, etc. Classes for Coohs and Students, £ s. d. Scullery Cleaning, for five Lessons 10 a.m. to 12 Noon 0 10 6 Ten Plain Cookery Demonstrations 10 a.m. to 12 Noon 0 4 6 Ten High-Class Demonstrations 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. 0 10 6 Ten Plain Cookery Practice Lessons 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 2 2 0 Ten High-Class Practice Lessons 10 a.m. to .3 p.m. 3 3 0 Single Lessons, from Qd. to 10s. 6d.iv SUMMARY OF RULES; FEES, ETC. Fees to be paid on entry. Dishes cooked in the School are for sale every day (except Saturday) at cost price. Teachers sent to all parts for private lessons at moderate fees. For full particulars, apply to the Secretary at the School. Edith Clarke, Lady Superintendent, Jan.y 1897.HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. SOUPS- Stock. Ingredients. Four pounds Shin of Beef. * One Carrot. One Turnip. One Onion. Half a head of Celery. One teaspoonful of Salt. Four quarts of Water. Cut the meat off the shm of beef into small pieces. Break the bones and remove the marrow. Put the meat, bones, and water into a stock-pot, add the salt, and remove the scum as it rises. When the stock is thoroughly skimmed and boiling, put in the vegetables, all well washed and cut up in large pieces. Avoid the use of spices and herbs in making stocks, and do not use much salt: these seasonings can be added later when you finish the soups made from this stock. Let the stock boil slowly for at least five hours ; then B2 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY, strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin, and let it get cold. White stock is made in this way, only use knuckle of veal instead of beef, and bones of poultry, all white meat. Consomme. \ Ingredients, Two quarts of Stock. Half a pound of lean Beef. The White and Shell of one Egg, Half a Carrot. Half a Turnip. Half an Onion. A buncli of Pot Herbs. Scrape or chop up the beef very finely: (I)lean the vegetables, and cut them up into small pieces. Carefully remove all the fat from the stock, which is now a jelly, and put it into a stewpan; add the scraped meat, the white of egg just beaten, the shell broken up roughly, and the vege- tables, stir all together over the fire until just on boiling point, then take out the whisk and let the soup boil up well; it should then be clear. Take a clean cloth, fix it on a soupstand, and pour boiling water through it, to wash and warm it thoroughly. Pour the contents of the stewpan gently on to this cloth, let it run through slowly twice. This is consomme, and can be served as a variety of soups named according to what is served in them.SOOTS. 3 Consomme a la Rachel. Ingredients. Clear consomm^, to which is added some very small quenelles made in teaspoons. One part coloured with pounded Tarragon. One part coloured with Lobster Coral. One part coloured with Truffles pounded. These quenelles must be all mixed separately, poached separately, and kept in cold water until the soup is ready. Put them into the tureen and pour the boiling consomme on them. Consomme a la Royale. ^ Ingredients, Three pints of Consomme. CtlSTARD TO SERVE IN THE CONSOMMEi Ingredients. Three Yolks of Eggs.] One White of Egg. One gUl of Stock. A little Salt. Beat up the eggs with the stock ahd a little salt; strain this into a well-buttered gallipot^ cover it over with a piece of kitchen paper buttered, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and steam it very gently for fifteen minutes; if steamed quickly the custard will be full of holes. When the custard is set take it out of the sauce- B 24 StGH-CLASS pan and let it get cool, then turn it out of the gallipot, cut it into small rounds, diaiiaonds or fancy shapes, put them into the tureen and pour the boiling consomme on them. Consomme aux QEufs Files. Ingredients, One quart of Consomme. One Egg. One dessertspoonful of Flour. One tablespoonful of Milk. Seasoning. Put the soup on to boil. Mix the egg, flour, milk, and seasoning together like a batter. Pass this batter through a very fine funnel or strainer into the boiling soup. It should look like threads. Consomme d'Orleans. Ingredients. One quart of Consomme. Quarter pound of Quenelle Meat. Divide the quenelle meat into three portions; make one a nice green with spinach colouring, another red with beetroot colouring or coral, then shape the quenelles in teaspoons and poach as usual; there should be an equal number of red, green, and white quenelles. Serve these in the consomme.5 S6UPS. Consomme k la Sevigne. Ingredients, One quart of Consomme. Two ounces of cooked Chicken. Two Eggs. Three tablespoonfuls of Milk. Twelve drops of Almond Essence, Salt, Cayenne, and Nutmeg. Pound the chicken and pass it through a hair sieve. Then mix with it the eggs, milk, salt, cayenne, nutmeg, and almond essence. When thoroughly blended, turn the mixture into three or four small dariole moulds well greased, and steam slowly for twenty minutes, or until set. Turn out very carefully, cut into fancy shapes, and serve in the consomme. A few asparagus points and chervil leaves may also be served in this soup. Carrot Soup a la Crecy. Ingredients, Six large Carrots. Two Onions. One head of Celery. Four ounces of raw Ham or Bacon. Two ounces of Butter. Three pints of Stock. One gill- of Cream. Half a teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. Pepper and Salt, and fried Croiitons. Peel off the red part of the carrots, and put into a stewpan with the onions sliced, the celery cut up6 HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. and the ham cut up, add two ounces of butter, put the lid on close and simmer over the fire gently for ten minutes, then add two pints of stock and simmer gently till the vegetables are tender. Drain off the stock, pound the carrots, &c., in the mortar, add the stock they were cooked in and one pint more, pass all through a tammy cloth or fine hair sieve. Eeturn this puree to the stewpan, and stir it over the fire till it boils, then stand it by the fire to clear itself of all grease, which must be taken off with a spoon as it rises. Let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour, add one gill of cream, half a teaspoonful of sugar, a little pepper and salt. Serve with fried croutons handed separately. Chicken Broth. Cut a chicken into several pieces, put it into a stewpan with one quart of water, and a little salt; as it boils, skim it well, and let simmer gently for two hours. If liked, rice or pearl barley can be cooked in the broth and served with it; about one ounce of either. Clear Mock Turtle. Ingredients, Half a Calf's Head. Six pounds of Knuckle Veal.SOUPS. 7 Eight ounces of raw Ham. One Carrot, One Turnip, Two Onions. Twelve Cloves. One head of Celery. A bunch of Sweet Basil, Marjoram, Thyme, Lemon Thyme and Parsley, One blade of Mace. One quart of Stock. Two pounds of lean Beef. Half pint of Madeira. A pinch of Cayenne. A teaspoonful of Lemon Juice. Some small quenelles, A little Salt. Egg Balls. Bone half a calf s head and parboil it in plenty of cold water with a little salt for twenty minutes. Take it out, let it get cold, then trim away all the rough parts. Place the half head in a stewpan with the knuckle of veal, ham, all the vege- tables cleaned and cut up, all the herbs and a quart of stock ; let this all boil quickly until the stock is reduced to a glaze, then fill up the stew- pan with cold water (about two quarts); when it boils, skim it well and keep it gently boiling until the calf s head is quite tender ; lift the head carefully out with a slice and set it aside to get cool. Strain the stock through a hair-sieve or cloth, when cold remove all the grease and clarify it with the two pounds of beef scraped (proceed as in Consomme). When clarified, cut up some of the calf s head into pieces one inch square, put8 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. these into the soup with the Madeira, cayenne, lemon juice, salt to taste, egg balls and small quenelles. Egg Balls. Six hard boiled eggs and four yolks of egg; pound all in a mortar and rub through a hair sieve, then sift a little flour over them on a board, roll them into balls the size of marbles, poach them very carefully, add them to the mock turtle soup just before sending to table. Clear Mulligatawny, Ingredients. Three quarts of Second Stock. Four Onions. Six Apples. Two Shalots. Four whites of Eggs. One Leek. Six Cardamom Seeds. One tablespoonful of Mustard Seed. Three tablespoonfuls of Curry Powder. Two tablespoonfuls of Curry Paste. One tablespoonful of Salt. Juice of one Lemon. Put all the ingredients in a stewpan, with the exception of the lemon-juice and eggs; add the stock, and let it boil for two hours. When it is cold, add four whites of eggs, beaten up with ^SOUPS. 9 little cold water. Let the soup boil up again, and, when clarified, strain through a clean cloth; then add the lemon-juice, and serve with some pieces of cooked chicken and well-boiled rice; the chicken served with the soup, the rice served separately. Potage d'Oseille a la Parisienne, * Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Sorrel after shredding. Two ounces of Butter. One pint of Bechamel. Twenty-four small squares of Bread. Wash and shred the sorrel. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and when hot put in the sorrel and cook about five minutes. Then add the Bechamel and boil the soup for about fifteen minutes. Season to taste. Put the squares of bread in the soup tureen and pour the soup over them. Kidney Soup, Ingredients, Four Sheep's Kidneys. Equal weight of Kidneys and lean Beef. Three pints of Brown Stock. Two tablespoonfals of Kice. Chopped Parsley. One Onion. Four ounces of Butte^.HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 10 Croutons of Bread. Pepper and Salt. Cut up the kidneys and the beef into small dice, season with pepper and salt, add the onion chopped up and some parsley, saute all these for about ten minutes in the butter; pour off the grease, add the stock and rice, and boil till quite tender, then strain; pound all the meat and rice * in a mortar, then pass through a tammy or fine hair sieve; stir this into the stock again, make it very hot and serve with croutons of bread. The soup must not boil after it has been passed through the tammy. Potage aux Abatis. Ingredients. Two sets of Duck Giblets. Half a head of Celery. One Carrot. One Turnip. Two Onions. A Bouquet Garni. Two Cloves. Ten Peppercorns. Two quarts of Second Stock. Half a pint of Madeira. Fifteen drops of Lemon Juice. A few grains of Cayenne Pepper. Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Butter. Salt. Clean the giblets carefully and put them in a stewpan of boiling water to blanch for five minutes.11 SOUPS. Then put them into cold water, wash and scrape them, and then cut them into pieces about an inch and a half in length. Put the pieces of giblets, the stock, and the vegetables (all cleaned and cut up small) into a stewpan, add the bouquet, cloves and peppercorns, and let the whole boil for two hours, skimming occasionally. Then take out the best pieces of giblets, trim them neatly, but let the stock and remainder of giblets boil half an hour longer. 'Now melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the flour, and fry for a few minutes; add the stock strained, the Madeira, lemon-juice, cayenne and the trimmed pieces of giblets, and let the whole boil twenty minutes. Potage a rAmericaine. To one quart of clear consomme add, when boiling, two tablespoonfuls of prepared tapioca let it boil ten minutes, then add half a pint of puree of tomato, a little salt, and a little sugar. This soup is better made with fresh tomatoes. Potage a la Bonne Femme. Ingredients, Two sman Lettuces. Two leaves of Sorrel. Four sprigs of Tarragon. Four sprigs of Chervil.HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 12 Half a Cucumber. One ounce of Butter. One saltspoonful of Castor Sugar. Half a saltspoonful of Salt. One pint and a half of White Stock. Yolks of three Eggs. One gill of Cream or Milk. The crust of a French Roll. Wash the lettuces, sorrel, tarragon, and chervil, and shred them all finely. Peel the cucumber, cut it into thin slices and shred these also. Melt the butter in a stewpan, place in the shredded vegetables and herbs and cook them for five minutes, but do not let them discolour. Sprinkle over the salt and castor sugar, add the stock, and let the vegetables boil slowly until tender. Beat the eggs and cream together. Take the stewpan containing the soup off the fire and let it cool. Then strain in the liaison of eggs and cream, place the stewpan on the fire, and stir until the eggs are cooked. Put the crust of the French roll in the oven to dry for a few minutes, then cut it into small round pieces. Put these into the tureen and pour the hot soup over them. Potage Dupoise, or Mussel Soup. Ingredients, Two pints of Fish Stock. Three pints of Mussels (prepared as for Dressed Mussels). Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. A few Parsley Stallss,SOOTS. 18 Half a teaspoonful of Sugar. Cayenne, Salt, Mignonnette Pepper. Lemon Juice. Half a pint of Cream. Prepare the mussels as for dressed mussels. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and mix them well. Pour the fish stock and the liquor from the mussels to the butter and flour; add the parsley stalks, &c. Let it boil, and skim well; then strain, and add the cream and the mussels. Ee-heat without boiling, and serve. Potage aux HuTtres. Ingredients, Three dozen of Oysters. Two Whitingsj or one Eel or two Flounders. t*arsley Boots. One Carrot. One Stick of Celery. A little Thyme. One Blade of Mace. A few Peppercorns. Two Anchovies. Two ounces of Butter* Two ounces of Flour. Two quarts of White Stock. One gill of Cream and two yolks of EggSi Lemon Juice, Salt, and Cayenne- Take the eel (or whitings or flounders), cut them up into pieces, and put them in a stewpan with the stock, parsley, carrot, cleaned and cut up, celery, thyme, mace, peppercorns, anchovies, andHiaH-CLASS COOKERlT. 14 salt; let it boil up, skim it well, and let it cook for one hour, then strain it off. Put two ounces of butter and two ounces of flour into a stewpan, mix them well together, and pour in the fish- stock : stir it well, and boil for ten minutes ; then strain it through a hair-sieve. Blanch and beard the oysters, strain them, and save the liquor. Put the soup on the fire and make it boil, then draw it off the fire ; mix the cream and yolks of eggs together, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a little cayenne; strain this into the soup and stir it over the fire until the eggs are cooked, taking care it does not boil, or it will curdle. Just before serving, put in the oysters and the oyster liquor. Potage a la Hollandaisei Ingredients^ Orle quEtrt of Veal or Chicken Stock. Two ounces of Butter; One ounce of Flour. Four yolks of Eggs; Half a pint of Cream. One gill of Green Peas cookeid; Onfe giU of cut Carrots cooked. One giU of cut Cucumber cooked. One teaspoonful of chopped Tarragon. Onfe teaspoonful of Sugar. One teaspoonful of Salt. Trim the peels, carrdts, and cucumbel" with ^ round cutter the size and shape of peas. Cook15 SOUPS. tliem in boiling water, being careful not to cook them too much. Melt the butter and flour in a stewpan ; add the stock, and let it boil well. Break the yolks of eggs into a basin and add the cream (making a liaison) ; then add this liaison of eggs and cream to the stock; let it just come to a boil, being careful it does not curdle. Strain into a clean stewpan, and add the vegetables, which have been previously cooked, and the tar- ragon, and serve. Potage a la Julienne. Ingredients. Oile large Carroti One smaU Turnip* Two Leeks. Half a head of Celery. One Onion. Two ounces of Butter. Salt. One teaspoonful of Sugar. One Cabbage Lettuce. A little Tarragon and Chervil. Shred the vegetables all of the same length and size. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and fry all the vegetables (except the lettuce, tarragon, and chervil) a light brown; add three pints of boiling consomme, the sugar and salt. Skim well untilHiail-CLASS COOKERY. 16 all grease is removed ; then add lettuce, tarragon, and chervil, let it boil a few minutes, and serve. Ordinary clear consomme is required for this soup. Potage a la Puree Lievre. Ingredients. One Hare. One ounce of Flour. Two ounces of Butter. Two Shalots. One smaU Onion. Small bouquet Garni. Blade of Mace. Quarter of a pound of lean Ham* Half a pint of White Wine. Salt, Whole Pepper, Cayenne. Two pints Second Stock. Cut up the hare in joints after it has been skinned and paunched. Do not wash it. Cut the bacon up in small pieces and butter a sauce- pan with the butter. Put the bacon and the hare in the stewpan and fry a light brown; then add the onion, &c., also the wine; boil ten minutes, add the stock, and let this simmer gently for about one hour and a half; strain through a sieve, remove all the meat from the bones, and pound in a mortar) pass the meat through a fine hair-sieve, using the liquor by degrees to pass it through with. Make it hot in a stewpan, but do not let it boil. Add seasoning if required.17 SOUPS. Potage aux Queues de Boeuf. Ingredients. One Ox-Tail. Four ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. Two Carrots. One Turnip. One Onion. Two Cloves. One Blade of Mace. Half a head of Celery, A bouquet Garni, Twelve Peppercorns. Salt. Two quarts of Second Stock. Cut the ox-tail into joints and blanch them for five minutes. Take them out of the water and wipe them dry. Melt two ounces of the butter in a stewpan, put in the pieces of ox-tail, the vege^ tables cleaned and cut small, the herbs and the spices. Fry all these together for ten minutes. Add the stock, and the salt. Let this come to the boil, skim well, and then simmer two hours. Take another stewpan and melt two ounces of butter, put in the flour, fry it a little. Then pour in the stock (which must be strained and freed from fat), stir until boiling, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it boil slowly for about fifteen minutes. Season to taste. Strain the soup into the tureen, serve in it the pieces of ox-tail and thin pieces of carrot and turnip, cut into C18 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. rounds about the size of a shilling; these must be boiled tender before being put into the soup. Potage au Riz. Ingredients, Two quarts of White Stock. Four tablespoonfuls of ground Rice. Half a pint of boiling Cream, One teaspoonful of Sugar, Salt to taste. Put the stock, which must be white and freed from fat, in a stewpan; when nearly boiling, stir in the ground rice, or better still, French flour of rice, which is smoother; stir well, and let it boil for ten minutes. Add the seasoning but not any pepper; then, when boiled sufficiently, add the cream, and strain before serving. Potage a la Tortue Fausse. Ingredients, Half a Calf s Head. One Carrot. One Turnip. Half a head of Celery. One Onion. A bouquet Garni. Twenty Peppercorns. Mace, Cloves, and Salt. Quarter of a pound of lean Ham. Three ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Flour,19 SOUPS. Two glasses of Sherry. Four quarts of "Water. Juice of half a Lemon. Wash and bone the head. Tie the meat in a cloth and chop the bones. Put the meat, bones, and four quarts of cold water into a stewpan, place it on the fire, add some salt, let it boil up, and skim well. Let it boil about three hours. Strain the stock into a basin to get cold, then carefully remove the fat. Now melt the butter in a stewpan; then put in the vegetables, cleaned and cut up small, the ham cut into dice, and the herbs and spices. Fry all these for ten minutes ; add the flour, and stir well. Now add the stock, stir until boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer ten minutes. Put in the sherry, lemon juice, salt, and cayenne, and strain the soup into another stewpan. Cut some of the calf s head into small neat pieces, and serve it in the soup. Make some veal stuf&ng as follows: Two ounces of beef suet, three ounces of bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped thyme and marjoram, half a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, a little nutmeg, one egg, pepper and salt; mix these all together, and roll into small balls. Poach these in salted water and then put them into the soup.20 HIGH-OLASS COOKEEY. Potage au Tapioca. Ingredients, One pint of White Stock. One ounce of crushed Tapioca. Two yolks of Eggs. One gill of Cream or Milk. Salt. Put the stock on to boil. When boiling, shake in the tapioca and stir until cooked. Beat the yolks and cream together and strain into another basin. Add the soup, when it is just off boiling point, slowly to this basin. Then pour the soup back into the saucepan, place it on the fire, and stir carefully until the eggs are cooked. This soup requires care not to curdle the eggs. Potage a la Royaleo Ingredients, Three pints of White Stock. Two ounces of cooked Macaroni, Three yolks of Eggs. One ounce of grated Parmesan Cheese. One gill of Cream. Salt and Cayenne. Put the stock in a stewpan to boil, add the macaroni cut up into pieces half an inch long; when this is cooked mix the eggs and cream together in a basin, then draw the stewpan off the fire and add the cream and eggs, the grated cheese, a little21 SOUPS. cayenne and salt. The soup must not boil after the cheese and liaison are in, or it will be spoilt. Puree de Marrons. Ingredients. Twenty-five large Chestnuts. Three ounces of Butter. One teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. One pint and a half of White Stock. Half a pint of Cream. Pepper and Salt. Slit the chestnuts at both ends, put them into boiling water, and boil ten minutes. Then remove the husks. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chestnuts and saute for a few minutes, but do not brown. Then add the stock and let the soup boil until the chestnuts are tender, when they must be rubbed through a hair-sieve. Warm up the soup, add the sugar, seasoning, and cream, and it is ready to serve. Puree de Navets, Ingredients. Twelve large Turnips. Five ounces of Butter. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Two quarts of White Stock. Half a pint of Cream. A little grated Nutmeg.22 Peel and slice the turnips, put them into a stewpan with four ounces of butter and one ounce of castor sugar and drawn down, taking care that they do not get brown; then add the stock and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour; strain this, and rub the turnips through a hair- sieve. Boil up the stock and skim it well, add the passed turnips, the cream, and an ounce of butter; stir all well together, boil up once and serve. Puree de Homard. Ingredients. One Hen Lobster. Two sticks of Celery. One Carrot. One Turnip. Four Shalots. Bayleaf, Thyme, and Parsley. Three ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Flour. Three pints of Stock (Fish Stock is best). One glass of Sherry. A tablespoonful of Anchovy Sauce. A tablespoonful of Harvey Sauce. A little Lemon Juice and Cayenne. Cut up all the vegetables very small -and fry them a light brown in the butter; stir in the flour, mix well, add the stock, stir well till it boils, then set it by the side of the fire to simmer gently for half an hour. Break up the lobster, cut up the meat from the claws into neat pieces, and put them on one side until the soup is finished. BreakSOtJPS* 23 up the shell, the rest of the lobster and some of the spawn, in a mortar, and put it into the soup, let it all boil for ten minutes, then rub it through a hair-sieve, put it back on the fire, let it boil up, skim it well, add the sherry, Harvey, anchovy, lemon-juice, and cayenne. Put the pieces of lobster, and some small quenelles of whiting into the tureen, pour the soup on them, and serve. Puree de Pommes de Terra. Ingredients, One pound of Potatoes. One Onion. Two leaves of Celery. One ounce of Butter. One pint of Stock. Half a pint of Milk. One gill of Cream. Salt. Fried Bread. Wash all the vegetables, and cut them into thin slices. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; put in the sliced vegetables. Place the stewpan on the fire and let the vegetables cook for five minutes ; then add the stock and milk, and boil slowly until the vegetables are quite tender. Now rub the vege- tables through a tammy-cloth or hair-sieve. Put the soup back in a saucepan, add the cream, and when hot it is ready to serve. Take two or three slices of stale bread; remove the crust, and cut the crumb into dice. Fry either in fat or butter, and serve with the soup.24 HiaH-OLASS (COOKBRY. Puree a la Princesse. Ingredients, One Chicken. Two ounces of Butter. One Onion. A little Mace. Bay-leaf. Parsley Stalks. Twelve White Peppercorns. Salt. Two quarts of Veal or White Stock. Cut the fowl in pieces, well wash it, put it in a stewpan previously buttered, with the onion, mace, &c. Put the lid on, let it cook over the fire ten minutes, taking care that it does not brown; add the stock ; simmer this gently one hour. Next put in a stewpan— Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Flour (Vienna). When well melted, strain the liquor from the chicken into it, and stir well; let it cook a few minutes; add the juice of half a lemon and half a pint of cream. Take the best pieces of chicken from the bones, pound in the mortar, add to the stock, and then strain through a tammy-cloth. This soup must not boil after the chicken and. cream is added.SOOTS. 2S Puree de Pois Verts. Ingredients, One quart of Peas. One handful of Parsley. A small bunch of Mint. One quart of Stock. One gill of Cream. Salt and Pepper. Put the stock on to boil. When boiling add the salt, then the peas, and other ingredients except the cream; boil until the vegetables are tender, then pass them through a hair-sieve with the stock they were boiled in, and again pass through a tammy-cloth, if desired very smooth; put all back into a clean stewpan to boil up, and just before serving add the cream and a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Puree a la Palestine. Ingredients, Two pounds of Jerusalem Artichokes. Two ounces of Butter. One pint of White Stock. Half a pint of Cream. Pepper and Salt. Wash, peel, and slice the vegetables in lemon- juice and water. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the vegetables, and cook carefully for about five minutes, being careful the vegetables d.0 not brown. Add the stock and boil until the26 HlaH-CLASS COOKUli-^. artichokes are tender, then rub them through a hair-sieve. Eeturn the soup to the saucepan, warm it up, add the cream, and it is ready to serve. Puree de Tomates. Ingredients, Three pints of Stock. Two ounces of lean Ham. One Onion. A Uttle Celery. One Shalot. One ounce of Butter. Three pounds of Tomatoes. One tablespoonful of Vinegar. Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg. Put all these ingredients, except the tomatoes and the stock, into a saute-pan and saute them for five minutes, then add the tomatoes sliced; let them simmer, and when cooked pass through a fine sieve; add to the stock, and let it boil about five minutes. This soup can be made of tinned tomatoes. Purde de Ohoux de Bruxelles. Ingredients, One pound of Brussels Sprouts. One quart of boiling White Stock. One gill of thick Cream. Boil the Brussels sprouts until tender, with the lid off and a small piece of soda in the water,SOUPS. 27 drain them, and pass through a sieve. Then put this into a pan with the stock and cream, season, and get quite hot, but care must be taken that it does not boil, or the colour will be spoilt. Serve with fried bread. Restorative Soup. Ingredients, One Calf s Foot. Three pounds of Shin of Beef. One pound of Knuckle of Veal. Three quarts of Water. Salt. Blanch the foot and cut it up into pieces. Cut up the veal and beef, and put all on to boil in three quarts of water. Skim well, and let it simmer gently till reduced to three pints.28 HIGH-CLASS dOOKEBf. DEESSED FISH. GENERAL REMARKS ON COOKINa FISH. Fish should always be steamed, except the very strong kinds, such as Mackerel and Eels ; these must be boiled. In my book of " Plain Cookery Eecipes " I suggest several ways of steaming Fish in a small household where there are perhaps not many saucepans to be had. Since writing those remarks I have found a first-rate fish steamer,* made of block tin with a copper bottom and in various sizes. These steamers have a great advantage over my simple method, which is that from an arrangement under the drainer on which the fish is placed, the steam as it condenses on the lid does not drip back upon the fish and make it sodden, but falls down into the water underneath. Fish takes rather longer to steam than to boil, but it is very much nicer, as the flavour and goodness are fully preserved. Put a good tablespoonful of salt in the water, and do not put the fish into the steamer until the water * These steamers are to be bought of Messrs. Davis & Co., 200, Oamberwell Koad, S.E.29 DRESSED FISH. boils. The recipes for Athenian Eel, Water Souchy, to warm up Salmon, and Perch; Bream Pie, and Stewed Trout, I found in MSS. among my grandfather's papers (Thomas Love Peacock, author of " Headlong Hall," etc.). Among the entrees, Pilet de Boeuf aux huitres, Salmi of Wild Duck and Minced Veal are also his. Athenian Eel and Sauce, Iihgredients. Half a pint of good Stock. One tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. One tablespoonful of Onion Vinegar. One mustardspoonful of Mustard. One dessertspoonful of Shalot Vinegar. One dessertspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. One dessertspoonful of Worcester Sauce. Marjoram and Parsley, Mix these all well together in a stewpan, and when hot stir in a dessertspoonful of chopped sweet marjoram and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Serve very hot in a sauce tureen; the eels, cut in pieces, to be baked, each piece to be rolled in oiled paper. Bream or John Dory Pie« Ingredients, Two pounds of Bream or John Dory. Four Eggs (hard-boiled).HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 30 Two Shalots (chopped fine). Two ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Bread-crumbs. Half a teaspoonful of Thyme and Marjoram. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. One teaspoonful of Worcester Sauce. Cayenne Pepper. Salt. One gill of Stock. Cut the bream in slices. Mix the butter, bread- crumbs, shalot, and seasoning together, and make into small balls. Cut the eggs in quarters. Lay the bream in a pie-dish, and then a layer of egg and seasoning, balls, &c., and, if liked, some pieces of lobster. Cover with a crust of rough puff-paste, and bake in a moderate oven one hour and a half. Mix the Worcester and anchovy sauce with the stock, and pour into the pie, after it is baked. A glass of Sherry or Chablis may be added. Cotelettes aux Huitres k la Cr^me. Ingredients, Two dozen Oysters and their liquor. Two and a half ounces of Vienna Flour. One and a half ounce of Butter. Parsley. Half a gill of Cream. Half a gill of Sherry. Six Mushrooms. Bread-crumbs. One dessertspoonful of Lemon Juice. The Yolks of three Eggs. Salt and Cayenn©^DRESSED FISH. 31 Cook the flour well in the butter^ then add one gill of boiling oyster liquor, the cream, sherry, lemon juice, salt and cayenne and the yolks of egg; stir these all well together till it thickens. Take the beards off the oysters, cut each of them into four pieces and stir them into the mixture, also the mushrooms chopped up. Turn this out on a dish to cool. Divide this mixture into por- tions of equal size, egg and bread-crumb them, form into nice-shaped cutlets, fry them in boiling fat, and dish-up with fried parsley. Serve with oyster sauce made as follows:—• Ingredients. The Beards of the Oysters. Thyme. Bayleaf and Parsley. One pint of White Stock. Two ounces of Butter. One and a half ounce of Flour. Three gills of Fish Stock or Oyster Liquor. One gill of Cream. Salt. A few drops of Lemon-juice. Cayenne, Cook the butter in the flour, stir in the white stock and the fish stock, add the beards of the oysters and the onion, thyme, parsley, and bay- leaf; cook all together for about twenty minutes; add the cream, a little salt and cayenne and a few drops of lemon juice; pass through a tammy-cloth and serve with the oyster cutlets.32 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Dressed Mussels. Ingredients, Two quarts of Mussels. One small Onion. Bay-leaf. A tablespoonful of Salt. First, well wash the mussels and lay them in water over night with a handful of salt; when they are quite clean put them in a stewpan, with the onion and bay leaf; sprinkle over them the salt, put on the lid, and stand them over the fire for a few minutes, when the shells will open; take them out of the stewpan and carefully take them from the shells, removing with care a small piece of weed which lies in the centre of the mussel. Strain the liquor which will be in the stewpan, and, if liked, can be made into a sauce with One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. Cayenne Pepper. Lemon Juice. Half a gill of Cream. and poured over the mussels. Or just warmed in their own liquor, and served with brown bread and butter. Eel Pie. Ingredients, One pound of Eels. Half a pint of Meat Stock.DKBSSED FISH. 33 Pepper and Salt. One tablespoonful of Lemon Juice. Two tablespoonfuls of Musliroom Ketchup. Cut up the eels into pieces between two and three inches long. Cut off the heads and tails and stew them in half a pint of meat stock. Strain out the heads and tails when they are thoroughly cooked, and mix into the stock a little pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, and two table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Put the pieces of eel into a pie-dish, pour in this sauce, cover with a good crust, and bake. Filets de Cabillaud a la Normande. Ingredients, Three slices of Cod of moderate thickness. Two glasses of Vin de Grave. Twelve Oysters. Twelve Button Mushrooms. Twelve small Quenelles. Half a pint of White Sauce, Two yolks of Eggs, Put the slices of cod on a greased tin, pour over a glass of the wine, place a greased paper over all, and bake in a slow oven for about fifteen minutes. Eeduce the rest of the wine in a stew- pan, add the white sauce with the yolks of eggs mixed in it, the oysters blanched, the mushrooms and the quenelles, and season to taste. Place the slices of fish on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and place the oysters, mushrooms, and quenelles in groups in the corners of the dish. DHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 34 Filets de Rougets a Tltalienne. Take your mullets and fillet them, making two fillets only of each mullet. Six mullets make a nice dish. Butter your dish, lay the fillets neatly on, sprinkle over a little salt, lemon-juice, and pepper. Cover them with a buttered paper, and place in a moderate oven till done. Drain any moisture from the dish into the sauce. Serve with Sauce Italienne poured over the mullet. Filets de Soles a la Colbert, Ingredients. Two Soles. Four Ancliovies pounded or a little Anchovy Essence. One Clove Garlic. Half a pint of Melted Butter Sauce. Skin and fillet the soles. Fold them, by placing each fillet round the left thumb and twisting the two ends tightly together. Put them on to a baking sheet, previously buttered. Sprinkle them with a little salt and lemon-juice, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. When done, roll the filets of sole in brown bread-crumbs. Dish in a circle, put a round pat of Maitre d'Hotel butter on the top of each, and pour sauce round. Sauce. Bone and pound the anchovies. Add them, with the clove of garlic, to half a pint of good35 DRESSED FISH, melted butter, prepared with, one ounce of butter, half an ounce of flour, and half a pint of fish- stock made from the bones of the soles; boil for six minutes, and strain before serving. Fish sauce is always better if it is made from fish-stock. Fish Cakes- Ingredients, One pound of cold Fish. Half a pint of thick Brown Sauce. One dessertspoonful of Anchovy Sauce, Six Gherkins. One Egg. Two ounces of Bread-crumbs. Make the brown sauce hot and stir into it the anchovy sauce and the gherkins, chopped finely. Take the stewpan off the fire, and add the fish in small flakes, removing all skin and bone. Turn this on to a plate, and when cold form into little cakes, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them; serve with fried parsley. Homard a la St. Stephens. Ingredients. One Lobster. One gin of Salad Oil. Two tablespoonfuls of Sherry. Pepper, Salt, and Cayenne. D 236 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. A little Chopped Parsley and Garlic. Two tablespoonfuls of Chablis. One ounce of Butter. Lemon-juice.^ Two tablespoonfuls of Espagnole Sauce. Take a nice fresh lobster, split it down the centre and cut the meat into small pieces; fry it in salad oil for five minutes, then pour off the oil and add the sherry, salt, pepper, cayenne, chopped parsley and garlic and chablis, let this all boil for about five minutes, then add the Espagnole sauce, boil it for a few minutes more, dish up the meat in the shells, add the butter and lemon-juice to the sauce, give it a boil up, pour it over the lobster, and serve. Lobster CutletSu Ingredients. One Hen Lobster. One ounce and a half of Butter. One ounce of Flour. One tablespoonful of Cream. Salt and Cayenne, One giU of Water, One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Parsley. Eeniove all the flesh from the tail and claws of the lobster and cut it up into small pieces. Take the coral of the lobster, wash it, dry it, and then pound it in a mortar with one ounce of butter, and rub it through a hair-sieve. Put in a stewpan one37 ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter, and mix these together over the fire; then add the water and boil the mixture well. Put in the coral butter, the cream, and the seasoning. Mix well, add the lobster, and turn on a plate to cool. Make up into cutlets, egg and crumb each one carefully, and fry in sufficient fat to cover them. Dish the cutlets on a napkin and garnish with fried parsley. Lobster Souffle. Ingredients. Two Whitings. One Hen Lobster. One gin of Cream. Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. One gill of Fish Stock made from bones of the Whitings. Four Eggs. Take the meat of the whitings (half a pound) off the bones and the coral from the lobster, pound these two together in a mortar, then pass through a wire sieve. Make a sauce of one ounce of butter, two ounces of flour, and the gill of fish stock ; this must be well cooked. Take the meat of the body of the lobster (half a pound) and pound in a mortar with the whiting and the sauce, adding the eggs one at a time; when well pounded, pass all through a hair sieve, add a little cayenne pepper and the cream well whipped. Take a plain souffle mould and well butter it, put a layer of the above mix-HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 38 ture in the bottom of the mould, and a few pieces of the meat from the lobster's claws; repeat this till the mould is full. The mould must be evenly- filled. Cover with buttered paper, and steam, very gently for half an hour. Serve very hot with white sauce, poured over the souffle. You can use half a pint of cream instead of the sauce if you like to make the souffle richer. Matelotte of Eels. Ingredients, One pound of Eels. Half a pint of Claret. Half a pint of Stock. Bouquet Garni. A few pieces of Carrot, Turnip, Onion, and half a basket of Mushrooms; Stalks and trimmings to be used with the Vegetables. Salt. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. A teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. Cut up the eelSj and cook them for about half an hour in the claret, stock and vegetables; when cooked take out the fish, strain the stock and reduce, then add the brown sauce and anchovy sauce. Extract the juice from half a basket of mushrooms by cooking them in butter and lemon- juice, add this to the stock and sauce, then put the eels in to get hot through. Cook some button onions in some stock and butter for two and a half hours in the oven; serve these with the eels.39 DKESSED FISH. Oyster Souffle. Ingredients, Two Whitings (half a pound of Fish). Twelve Oysters. Three Eggs. Two ounces of Flour. One gill of Oyster Liquor. One ounce of Butter. One gill of Cream. Blanch and beard the oysters and cut each one in four pieces. Put the butter and flour into a stewpan and mix them well together over the fire, add the one gill of oyster liquor and stir till it thickens and the flour is cooked. When cooked, put this panada and the meat of whitings into a mortar, and pound them well together, adding the three eggs, one at a time, also a little salt and cayenne pepper. Pass this mixture through a hair-sieve; stir the oysters and the whipped cream lightly in. Well butter your mould, pour in the mixture, cover it with buttered paper, and steam it gently for half an hour. Sauce for Oyster Soueele, Ingredients, Bones of the Whitings. Beards of the Oysters. One ounce of Flour. One ounce of Butter. Half a gill of Cream. To make half a pint of stock, boil down the beards of the oysters and whitings' bones in oneHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 40 pint of water. Melt the flour and butter together, stir in the half pint of stock, and let it boil six minutes ; then add the cream, a few drops of lemon- juice, and a little cayenne. Pour this round the souffle. Petits Souffles de Homard. Ingredients, One Hen Lobster. Three tablespoonfuls of good Mayonnaise Sauce. Half a pint of Aspic JeUy. One gill of Tomato Sauce. Cut up the meat of the lobster into neat pieces. Take some Eamequin cases and prepare as for a souffle, with bands of writing-paper about three inches above the case. Put the Mayonnaise sauce, the tomato sauce, and aspic jelly into a basin, and whisk till it begins to look white; stir in the pieces of lobster, add a little tarragon and chervil; then fill the Eamequin cases. When set, take off the papers carefully. Garnish with coral sprinkled on the top, and serve. Scollops of Turbot. Ingredients, One pound of Cold Turbot. • Half a pint of White Sauce. One teaspoonful of Ancbovy Sauce. Cayenne and Salt. Browned Bread-crumbs. One ounce of Butter.41 Dressed i^isil. Take one pound of cold turbot, salmon, or any cold fish, break it into small pieces^ put in a stew- pan with a little salt and pepper, and the white sauce, to which may be added one tablespoonful of cream, also the anchovy sauce, and cayenne. Butter some scollop shells, and sprinkle over them a few brown crumbs; fill in with the mixture; again sprinkle them with brown crumbs, and put them in the oven to get hot through. Serve on a napkin in the shells. Slice of Salmon Bakede Ingredients, Two tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. One Gherkin chopped fine. One Shalot chopped fine. One Anchovy chopped fine. Half a teaspoonful of Cayenne Sauce. Mix these all together and rub over both sides of a slice of salmon. Wrap the salmon in buttered paper and bake about half an hour. Serve in the paper. Sole a la Maitre d'HoteL Ingredients, One Sole, filleted. One ounce of Butter. Three quarters of an ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Milk and Water.HiaH-OLASS COOKERf. 42 Lemon-juice. Salt and Pepper. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Half a gill of Cream. Put the bones and fins of the sole into a sauce- pan with half a pint of water and milk, and put it on to boil. Fold the fillets loosely, put them on a greased tin, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and squeeze some lemon-juice over them. Cover with a buttered paper, and place in a moderate oven for about six minutes. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, mix well. Strain and pour in the fish-stock made from the bones, and boil for ten minutes. Then add salt, pepper, cream, lemon-juice, and the chopped parsley. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Sole aux Fines Herbes. Ingredients, One Sole. Half a pint of White Sauce. Two tablespoonfiils of Tarragon Vinegar. One teaspoonful of mixed Parsley, Tarragon, and Chervil chopped finely. Put the fish on a greased tin and bake in a slow oven for about ten minutes or until done. Eeduce the vinegar in a stewpan, add the white sauce and mix well, then the chopped herbs, and seasoning to taste. Place the fish when done on a dish, pour the sauce over it. (The white sauce should be made of fish-stock.)43 DRESSED FISH. Sole au Gratin a TAnglaise. Ingredients, One Sole. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Half a Shalot. Four Mushrooms. Lemon-juice. Salt and Pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of Italian Sauce. Half an ounce of Butter. Browned Crumbs. Skin the sole, cut off the fins and the head and tail, and nick it with a knife on both sides. Dry- it well; chop the parsley, shalot, and mushrooms, and mix them together. Butter a dish, sprinkle half the chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot on the dish. Lay the sole on this seasoning, and sprinkle the rest of the parsley, &c., over the fish. Squeeze over a little lemon-juice, season with salt and pepper, and then shake over some bread- crumbs previously browned in the oven. Lay the butter in little bits here and there on the fish. Put the sole in a moderate oven and bake it about ten minutes. Eemove the fish on to a clean dish. Warm up the sauce and pour it round the fish. Sole a la Bohemienne. Ingredients, Two Soles, filleted. Two Truffles.HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 44 Two Eggs (hard-boiled). One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. One tablespoonful of Lobster Coral. Three quarters of an ounce of Butter. One ounce of Flour. One gill of Fish-Stock. Half a gill of Cream. Cayenne, Salt. Lemon-juice. Fillet the soles, fold them over, put them on a buttered tin, cover them with a buttered paper to prevent them from burning, and cook in the oven. Melt the butter in a stewpan; add the flour and fish-stock; when well cooked, add the cream, salt, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Chop up the trufiles, yolks of eggs, and parsley finely ; pound the coral in the mortar, and pass through a hair-sieve. Next arrange the soles on a dish, pour the sauce over; ornament each fillet, thus: one with trufiles, one with eggs, one with coral, another with parsley, so on alternately. Sole a la Portugaise. Ingredients. One large Sole. One ounce of Butter. One Shalot. Half a teaspoonful of Parsley. Half a teaspoonful of Anchovy. Skin the sole, make an incision sufficiently large to admit of the stuffing; put the butter on a plate, add the shalot, parsley (chopped very45 DRESSED FISH. fine), and anchovy sauce; put this stuffing in the sole, and put it on a buttered gratin dish. Then take— One ounce of Butter. Four Tomatoes. One Spanish Onion. Half an ounce of grated Parmesan and Bread-crumbs. Half a gill of Tomato Sauce. Peel and cut the onion and tomatoes into thin slices, and lay over the sole alternately; sprinkle over this some salt and pepper, about one ounce of butter, and a few brown bread-crumbs, in which has been mixed a little Parmesan. Pour round the sole three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven about ten minutes. Soles a la Rouennaiseo Ingredients, Two Soles. Lemon-juice. Lobster Mixture (see Lobster Outlets, p. 36), Chopped Truffles. Skin and fillet the soles; lay some lobster mixture on the half of each fillet, fold them over in half with the skin inside, and put them on a buttered baking sheet; squeeze a little lemon on each fillet, cover them with buttered paper, and bake for ten minutes. Dish up, garnish with six prepared mussels or bearded oysters, and serve with sauce Cardinal.46 HIGH-CLASS COOKBUY. Sole a I'Horly. Ingredients, One Sole. One tablespoonful of Salad Oil. One teaspoonful of Chili Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. Chopped Parsley. Chopped Onion. Pepper and Salt. For the Battee. Two yolks and one white of Egg. Two ounces of Flour. One tablespoonful of Salad Oil. Two tablespoonfuls of Milk or Cream. Salt. First make the batter, because it should stand before it is wanted. Mix the milk and flour smoothly together with a pinch of salt; add the two yolks of eggs and the oil—the white of egg whipped ; mix in very lightly. Stand this on one side till you are ready to cook the fish. Mix the salad oil, tarragon and chili vinegar, with a little chopped parsley and onion; add some pepper and salt. Fillet the sole, cut each fillet in half, and lay each piece to soak for about ten minutes in the oil and vinegars. Dip each piece in the batter, and fry in boiling fat. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve with tomato sauce.DRESSED FISH. 47 Stewed Sole h la Gascogne. Ingredients, One Sole. One Onion. Twelve Allspice. Twelve Peppercorns. Two tablespoonfuls of Mushroom Ketchup. One teaspoonful of Cayenne Sauce, One gill of gravy or Stock. Mix all the above together, pour into a stew- pan, lay the sole in it, and stew for twenty minutes; take out the sole, strain the sauce and pour over the fish. Souffle de Saumon. Ingredients, Half a pound of Salmon. Two ounces of Vienna Flour. One ounce of Butter. One gill of White Sauce. Two Anchovies, boned and washed. One ounce of live Spawn. Three Eggs. One gill of half-whipped Cream. Salt and Cayenne, Shred the raw salmon and the two anchovies, pound them in a mortar, and rub them through a hair-sieve. Put the butter and flour into a stew- pan, and mix well together over the fire ; add the white sauce, and stir till it thickens and the flour is cooked. Now put this sauce and the salmon48 HiaH-CLASS OOOKEllY. into a mortar with the spawn, salt, cayenne, three eggs added one at a time, and the whipped cream; pound all well together. Butter your mould, put in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper, and steam very gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve with any good fish sauce poured over it. Stewed Eels. Ingredients, One pound of Eels. Half a pint of Stock. One gill of Port Wine. One dessertspoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. One Onion. Sweet Herbs. One blade of Mace, Twelve whole Peppers, Salt. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. Chop up the onion and fry it a nice brown, with the herbs and the flour, in the but>ter ; then stir in the peppers, the mace, a pinch of salt, and the stock. Cut the eel up into pieces and add it; let it stew slowly till the fish is cooked,—about half an hour. Take out the fish with a slice; put it on a hot dish in the oven while you finish the sauce. Add the ketchup and port wine to the sauce ; let it boil up quickly, strain it over the eel, and serve.49 DRESSED FISH. Stewed Oysters. Ingredients, One and a half ounce of Butter. One ounce of Flour. One gill of Milk. One gill of Cream. A small blade of Mace. Lemon-juice. Salt. Twenty-four Oysters. One Yolk of Egg. Blanch the oysters in their own liquor, strain them, and take off the beards. Cook the flour and butter together, add one gill of oyster liquor, one gill of milk, and a small piece of mace, a little salt, and a few drops of lemon-juice. When the flour is cooked, strain out the mace, add the cream, the yolk of egg, and the oysters. Let the oysters get hot through, and serve with sippets of bread round. Stewed Trout. Ingredients. One Trout* Four Shalots. One pint of Fish-Stock. One ounce of Buttel*. Two Cloves. One teaspoonful of Salt. A few grains of Cayenne. One Carrot. EHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 50 One Bay-leaf. One tablespoonful of Basil and Thyme mixed. A bunch of Parsley. Chop up the shalots and carrot, put them in a stewpan with the butter and parsley; let this get hot, add the stock, cloves, herbs and seasoning; let all this simmer for one hour. Clean and wash the trout, tie round with broad tapes to prevent it breaking. Put the trout into a stewpan, strain the stock over it, add three glasses of port wine ; let it simmer gently till the fish is cooked; it will take about half an hour. Take off the tapes carefully so as not to break the fish, reduce the stock it was cooked in, and pour over it. Hand a quartered lemon round with this dish. Supreme de Crabe k la Tomate. Take all the meat out of a crab, and to each pound add the following*— J'onr ounces of stale Bread-crtimbsi One gill of Tomato Sauce. I'he Juice of one Lemon. The Peel of a quarter of a Lemoti. Five tery thin slices Of Lemon. Salt and Pepper to tastfe. One glass of Chablis, or more if the crab is very dty. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, taking care that it does not burn. Before serving, bring it just to the boil; serve in the shell, and garnish with fried parsley.DBESSED FISa. 51 Tartelettes a Tlndienrve, Ingredients. Twelve large Oysters. ' One Shalot chopped fine. One Carrot (cooked) Half a gill of Cream. One teaspoonful of Curry Powdur, Half a teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Half an ounce of Flour. One ounce of Butter. Cayenne Pepper. A little Salt. Line some small patty-pans with good paste, very thin, and fill them with rice, so that they may be kept hollow, and bake ten minutes; then take out the rice, blanch the oysters, and remove the beards only, not the muscle part, and lay them in cold water to keep their colour. Melt the butter, fry the shalot, add the flour and curry-powder, the liquor from the oysters, cayenne, and lemon-juice; when this is cooked over the fire, add the cream and the carrot, cut up in dice; fill the cases with this mixture, and put on the top of each case one oyster glazed. When finished, cover with a buttered paper, and make hot in the oven. To Warm up Perch. Ingredients, Cold cooked Perch. Half a pint of Port Wine. One quart of Stock.HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 52 One large Onion. Twelve whole Peppers. Twelve Allspice. One blade of Mace. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. One tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. One tablespoonful of Chilli Vinegar. Mix all these ingredients together and make them hot; put in the cold perch in flakes, and serve when thoroughly hot. To Warm up Salmon- Ingredients, Salmon. Two tablespoonfuls of Liquor. One tablespoonful of Salad Oil. One dessertspoonful of Chilli Vinegar. One dessertspoonful of Cucumber Vinegar. One teaspoonful of minced Capers. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. Bread-crumbs. Separate the salmon in flakes and lay them in a sauce made of all the above ingredients mixed together (except the crumbs), to soak for about two hours. Take them up separately and lay them in a scollop tin. Mix the sauce with enough bread-crumbs to give it consistency; cover the fish with it and allow it to brown in the oven.53 DRESSED FISH, Water Souchy. Ingredients, Fish, Perch or Flounders. Fish Liquor. Four Parsley plants, roots and leaves. One teaspoonful of grated Horse-radish, One teaspoonful of Shalot Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Cayenne Sauce. One teaspoonful of Walnut Ketchup. Stew the fish slowly, in just enough fish liquor to cover them, with the parsley, the horse-radish and above sauces. When the fish are done, lay them in a deep dish, with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; strain the liquor in which the fish were cooked over them, and serve, adding a little more fish liquor to them if there is not enough left after the cooking to cover them. Whitebait, Ingredients. Three or four pounds of Lard or clarified Fat. Whitebait. One large teacupful of Flour. Put the lard in a stewpan and let it get very hot. If you use a fryometer the heat of the fat must not be less than 400 degrees. Pick the whitebait carefully out of the water, and lay them on a sieve to dry. Put the flour into a sheet ofHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 54 kitchen paper. Toss the whitebait in the flour, move them about quickly, and finger them as little as possible. Then turn the fish into a frying-basket and sift all the loose flour back on to the paper. Plunge the fish into the fat, which must be as hot as possible not to burn, for one minute; shake well, and serve at once very hot. To devil whitebait, sprinkle them, when cooked, with pepper and cayenne mixed. Hand round with quartered lemon and thinly cut brown bread and butter.( 55 ) CURKIES AND INDIAN DISHES. AS TAUGHT BY A NATIVE COOK IN THE COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION, 1886 GENERAL REMARKS ON CURRIES. 1. The quantity of butter depends a great deal on the fatness of the meat curried. 2. The onions should be of a moderate size. If small, more must be used than specified in the recipes; if large, less. 3. The quantity of fluid must depend greatly on the length of time the meat has to be cooked. The cook must use a little judgment in this matter. Curry Powder. Ingredients, One pound and a half of Papaver Somniferum. Two pounds of Turmeric (Powder), Two ounces of Yellow Mustard Seed. One ounce of Cinnamon. Quarter of a pound of Garlic.56 HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. A little Lemon-juice. Five pounds of Coriander Seed. Quarter of a pound of large Chillies. Two ounces of Black Pepper. Grind all these up together in a spice mill, then rub them through a hair-sieve. I have given half the quantities the native gave me, they can be decreased in proportion as required. It is best to make small quantities. Be sure to get the turmeric powdered. I broke several machines trying to grind it; the rest of the ingredients are easy enough. The ingredients can be had of any large wholesale druggist. Get the large chillies, the little ones are so terribly hot. When we do not make our own curry powder, we always use Edmund's ; also his curry paste and chutneys. Brown Curry (Beef). Ingredients, Two pounds of Be§f. Two ounces of Butter. One Onion. One tablespoonful of Curry Powder. Half a pint of Stock. Half a saltspoonful of Salt. Jnice of half a Lemon. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion sliced and fry a few minutes. Then add the meat cut into small pieces and cook all together. Now sprinkle the curry over the meat and stir the contents of the saucepan overCURRIES AND INDIAN DISHES. 57 the fire for about five minutes. The stock and the salt must now be added and the curry cooked slowly for about an hour and a half or until the meat is tender. Add the lemon-juice just before serving. (Mutton or veal may be cooked by this recipe.) Dry Curry. Ingredients. Two pounds of Beef. Two ounces of Butter. One Onion. One tablespoonful of Curry Powder. Two Chopped Gherkins. One dessertspoonful of Chutney. One saltspoonful of Salt. Juice of half a Lemon, Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onion sliced, and fry a few minutes. Then add the meat cut into small pieces and cook all together. Now sprinkle the curry over the meat and stir the contents of the saucepan over the fire for five minutes. The gherkins, chutney, and salt must now be added, and the stewpan must be set over a very slow fire for about an hour. It is impossible to give the exact time^ as it depends on the meat, which must be quite tender. Add the lemon-juice just before serving.58 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Fish Curry. Ingredients, Two pounds of Fish, One Onion. Two ounces of Butter. One tablespoonful of Curry Powder. Half a saltspoonful of Salt. The Juice of half a Lemon. Half a pint of Stock, or half a pint of Almond Milk. (See Chicken Curry.) Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion sliced and fry for a few minutes. Then add the curry powder and fry also. Now pour in the stock or almond milk, add the salt and lemon- juice, and boil all together for five minutes. Then put in the fish, which should be cut up into pieces about one and a half inches square, and allow it to cook in the curry until done, which will be from fifteen to thirty minutes according to the sort of fish. Kebob Curry. Ingredients, Two pounds of Beef, Mutton, or Veal. Two or three Onions. ] Three or four pieces of Green Ginger. Procure some small skewers about two and a half inches long. Peel the ginger and slice it, skin the onion and slice it rather thickly, and cut the meat into pieces about an inch and a halfCUimiES AND INDIAN DISHES. 59 square. Thread the meat, ginger, and onion on the skewers, about two pieces of each alternately. When the skewers are full proceed to make the curry by either of the recipes for meat curry given in this book, putting in tlie skewers in place of the pieces of meat. Vegetable Curry. Ingredients^ Two Carrots. Two Turnips. Half a pint of Green Peas. Two Potatoes. One Onion. ' One and a half ounces of Butter. Half a pint of Stock. One tablespoonful of Curry Powder. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. One teaspoonful of Salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onion sliced, and fry a few minutes. Then add the curry powder and stock mixed together, the salt, and the lemon-juice, and boil all together for about five minutes. v Have ready the carrots, turnips, and potatoes, cut into small pieces and boiled separately, and the peas nicely cooked. Put these vegetables into the curry and warm for about five minutes.60 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. White Curry (Chicken). Ingredients, One Fowl. One Onion. Two ounces of Butter. Two tablespoonfuls of Curry Powder. Two ounces of Sweet Almonds. Half a saltspoonful of Salt. The Juice of half a Lemon. Half a pint of Water. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion sliced and stir over the fire, but do not brown. Then add the fowl cut into rather small pieces, and cook all together for a few minutes. The curry powder should then be sprinkled over the fowl and the contents of the saucepan stirred carefully over the fire for five minutes. Blanch the almonds and pound them with a little water. When they are quite fine put them in a strainer and pour over them the rest of the water, which should come from the almonds looking like milk. Add this almond milk and the salt to the curry, and cook slowly for about half an hour according to the age of the fowl. Add the lemon- juice a few minutes before serving. (Veal may be cooked by this recipe.) Grated cocoa-nut may be used instead of almonds.CUBBIES AND INDIAN DISHES. 61 Burdwan of Fowl. Ingredients, One cooked Chicken. One sliced Onion. Twenty-four Oysters. Half a pint of White Sauce. One glass of Sherry. One tablespoonful of Anchovy Sauce. One ounce of Butter. Cayenne. Salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion and fry it a little. Then add all the other in- gredients, except the chicken and the oysters, and boil the sauce for about five minutes. Lastly put in the fowl cut into neat joints, and the oysters blanched and bearded, cook slowly about ten minutes and serve. Devilled Almonds. Ingredients. Two ounces of Sweet Almonds* Two ounces of Butter. Seven or eight croutons of fried Bread, One tablespoonful of Chutney. Two chopped pickled Gherkins. One tablespoonful of Worcester Sauce. Cayenne and Salt. Blanch and shred the almonds, then fry them brown in the butter. Mix the chutney, gherkins,62 Worcester sauce, cayenne, and salt on a plate; turn this mixture into the pan with the almonds and mix well. When quite hot serve on croutons. Devilled Lobster. Ingredients, The Tail of one or more Lobsters. Seven Croutons of fried Bread. Two tablespoonfuls of Chutney. Two chopped pickled Gherkins. One tablespoonful of Worcester Sauce. Cayenne. Salt. Two ounces of Butter. Cut from the tail of the lobster seven nice slices ; these should be as nearly the same size as possible. Mix the chutney, gherkins, salt, cayenne, and Worcester sauce on a plate, and cover each piece of lobster with the mixture. Make the butter hot in a frying-pan, put in the pieces of lobster, and warm thoroughly. Have the croutons hot and crisp, and place one piece of lobster on each. If any of the chutney mixture remains, put a little on each piece of lobster. Serve very hot*CURHIES AND INDIAN DISHES. 63 Clear Mulligatawny. Ingredients. One quart of good Stock. Two ounces of Butter. One sliced Onion. Two sliced Tomatoes. Three tablespoonfuls of Curry Paste. Two green Chillies cut fine. Three Eggs. Fry the onion in the butter, add the tomatoes, chillies and curry. Then pour in the stock and boil for about half an hour. Skim well. Let the soup cool. Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs together, wash and crush the shells, and add all to the soup. Stir over the fire until boiling, and strain in the usual way. Serve boiled rice separately. ^'Mollet'' (Indian Breakfast Dish). Ingredients. Two ounces of Butter. One rather large Onion sliced. Two pounds of Fish. One ounce and a half of Sweet Almondsj Half a pint of Watel\ One ounce of Turmeric. One teaspoonful of Salt. Cayenue. Two or three Chopped green Chillies, the butter in a saucepan, and fry thd little. Blanch the almonds and pound Melt onion a64 HiaH-OLASS COOKEEY. them, adding the water by degrees. Then put the almonds, water, salt, cayenne, turmeric and chillies into the saucepan and boil for about five minutes. Have the fish boned if possible, and cut in pieces about one and a half inches square, place these pieces in the stewpan and cook slowly until done, from fifteen to thirty minutes according to the sort of fish. Take out the chillies, and serve with boiled rice. Pillau of FowL Ingredients. One Fowl. Half a pound of Kice. Quarter of a iDound of Butter. One Onion. Twelve Kaisins. One ounce of Sweet Almonds. One quart of White Stock. Two Cloves. One inch, stick of Cinnamon. Cayenne. Salt. Have the stock boiling, put in the fowl and boil for twenty minutes. Heat the butter in a stew- pan and fry the almonds blanched and shredded, the raisins stoned and cut in halves, and the onion skinned and shredded. When these are browned strain them from the butter and place them aside. Heat the butter up again, put in the rice picked and washed, and fry it a light brown. Strain off the butter and add the stock by degrees to theCURRIES AND INDIAN DISHES. 65 rice until it is quite tender. Then stir in the salt, cayenne, cinnamon, and cloves. Make a well in the centre of the rice, lay in the fowl, heap the rice on the bird, and cook all together for about forty-five ininutes. To serve, place the fowl on a dish, the rice round and a little on the bird, and garnish with the fried raisins, almonds, and onions. (The rice may not require quite the quart of stock.)HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 66 ENTEEES. Ailerons de Volaille a Tlndienne. Ingredients, The Pinions of young Fowls—^ten for an Entree. Two ounces of Quenelle Meat. Two ounces of Foie-gras. Bone and stuff the wings of the chicken with the mixture of quenelle meat and foie-gras, sew up the ends with needle and cotton, braize for three-quarters of an hour; dish up on a bed of well cooked rice, and serve with a good curry sauce round. Beef Olives. Ingredients. One pound and a half of Fillet of Beef or Rump Steak. Three ounces of Bread-crumbs. Two ounces of Beef Suet. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped Thyme and Marjoram. Nutmeg and Lemon-rind grated. One Egg. Salt and Pepper. One pint of Brown Sauce,67 ENTREES, Cut the fillet of beef into pieces of half an inch thick and four inches long, and beat them out with a wet cutlet-bat. Chop up the trimmings of the beef, the suet, parsley, thyme, and marjoram, and mix them in a basin with the bread-crumbs, the grated lemon-rind, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and the egg; stuff each piece of beef with this mixture, roll it up, and tie it round with a piece of string. Place these stuffed rolls of beef in a stewpan with one pint of brown sauce, and stew gently for three quarters of an hour. For serving, take off the string, and dish up with mashed potato or spinach, with the sauce poured round. Bengal Curry. Ingredients, Two pounds of Meat—Chicken, Veal, Beef, or Babbit. Six Onions. One Clove Garlic. Two Cardamoms. One inch of Cinnamon. One tablespoonful of Curry Powder. One tablespoonful of Curry Paste. Quarter of a pound of Butter. Lemon-juice. Salt. Cut the meat in pieces; slice the onions and put them in a saucepan with the butter, carda- moms, garlic, and cinnamon; cook all this over the fire until the onions are quite tender, taking F 268 Hian-CLASS COOKERY. care that they do not brown; then stir in the powder, paste, meat, and salt. Put the lid on and let it simmer in the oven. If the meat used is chicken or rabbit, one hour will be sufficient; if beef or mutton, two hours will not be too long; add then the lemon-juice, and serve with well- boiled rice, separately. Bouch^es de Volaille a la St- James. Ingredients. Half a pound of Chicken. Twelve Oysters. One giU of Bechamel Sauce. Half a gill of Curry Sauce. Half a pint of whipped Cream. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Six button Mushrooms. Pepper and Salt. One ounce of Butter. One Shalot. Take half a pound of the white meat of a fowl, six mushrooms, pepper and salt; pound these in a mortar and pass through a hair-sieve, add to it a gill and a half of whipped cream and the gill of Bechamel sauce. Take the beards off the oysters, cut each one in half, fry the chopped shalot in the butter, add the curry sauce and half a gill of cream, cook this, then stir in the oysters, mix well and add a little salt and cayenne. Grease the Bouchee moulds, line well with the cream ofENTREES. ^9 chicken; put some of the oyster mixture in the middle, cover each with more chicken cream, and steam very steadily for fifteen minutes. Serve very hot with some good Supreme sauce poured round the bouchees. Bouch^es a la Reine. Ingredients. Half a minced Chicken. Two ounces of minced Ham. Six minced Mushrooms. Three minced Truffles. Half a pint of White Sauce. One gill of Cream. Yolks of two Eggs. Cases made with puff paste, either baked like vol-au-vent cases, small, or line some little moulds, which should be filled with rice before baking, to prevent them from rising too much. Next put the sauce into a stewpan, with chicken, ham, etc.; when it is quite hot add the cream, and lastly stir in the yolks of eggs, which must be cooked but not curdled; fill this into the patty cases, and serve. Boudins a la Richelieu. Ingredients, Half a pound of Chicken. Half a gill of White Sauce. Half a gill of Cream.HIGH-CLASS COOKEll-^. 70 One ounce of Panada. One Egg. Salt and Pepper. Pound the chicken, panada, egg, and season- ing all together, pass through a hair-sieve; stir in the sauce and cream very carefully, grease your tins and fill with the mixture. Cut in small neat squares, two ounces of chicken, two ounces of tongue, half a truffle and two mushrooms; mix in two tablespoonfuls of white sauce, put a small piece of this in the middle of each one, cover over and steam for ten minutes. Serve with good sauce round. Broiled Partridge. Ingredients. A young Partridge. Chopped Parsley. Mushrooms and Shalot. One ounce of Butter. Bread-crumbs. Pick and clean a nice young partridge, cut it in half, leave on the legs but cut off the toes, press the leg towards the wing to make it into a neat cutlet shape, season with pepper and salt and sprinkle over the parsley, mushrooms and shalot, baste over this with warm butter, then sprinkle over again with brown bread-crumbs, broil for fifteen minutes, baste again with warm butter, and serve very hot with fried strips of potato and either a good beef-tea gravy or Espagnole sauce.71 ENTREES. Calf's Head Pie. Half a calf s head with the skin on, boiled till tender, cut in squares, lay thin slices of bacon at the bottom of the pie-dish, lay squares of the head over, distributing fat, lean, and skin as equally as possible, not close together but with spaces for gravy to form jelly, another thick layer of bacon, and repeat squares as before till the dish is full. Tongue in the middle at top. Four hard-boiled eggs cut in halves, mix brains, sage and eggs into forcemeat balls, sprinkle cayenne and nutmeg, fill in the dish with good stock reduced from the liquor the head was boiled in. Cover with rough puff paste, and bake. Chaudfroid of Chicken (No. 1). Ingredients. One cold boiled Chicken. Half a pint of Bechamel Sauce. Two Sheets of Gelatine. One Beetroot. One Cucumber* One pint of Aspic Jelly* Mayonnaise Sauce. Melt the gelatine and stir it into the Bechamel sauce. Cut the chicken into neat joints ; remove the skin, and mask each piece carefully with the white chaudfroid sauce. Dish up on chopped aspic jelly ; garnish with a little of the cucumber and beetroot; the remaining beet and cucumber cut into neat pieces, stir into the Mayonnaise, and serve in the centre.HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. 72 Chaudfroid of Chicken (No. 2). Another very simple chaudfroid is less rich and a nice change; leave out the aspic jelly and Mayonnaise sauce, season the white sauce for masking well with tarragon, pile up the pieces of chicken neatly on the entree dish and garnish with the white hearts of cabbage lettuces cut in halves. Chaudfroid of Larks or Quails. Ingredients. Larks or Quails. Half a pint of brown Stock. One gill of Sherry. Bay-leaf and Thyme. A little chopped Onion, Carrot and Turnip. Ingredients for stuffing ''Liver Farce!' Half a pound of Calf s Liver. Quarter of a pound of Bacon. One small Carrot. A small bunch of Herbs. One Onion, Salt, Pepper and Nutmeg. First make the stuffing. Cut up the bacon and cook it, then add the liver cut up, the carrot, herbs, onion, salt, pepper and nutmeg. When well cooked pound all in a mortar and rub through a wire sieve. This liver farce is now ready for use. Draw and clean the birds, take out the breast-bone and the back-bone but leave the legs. Stuff each bird73 ENTREES. with the liver farce, tie each one up in a piece of muslin, lay them in a stewpan, cover them over with their bones, chopped vegetables, bay-leaf, thyme, half a pint of stock, and one gill of sherry. Let them cook steadily for half an hour, then take them out of the stewpan and press them lightly between two dishes. Strain the stock the birds were cooked in, remove the fat, and reduce it to a glaze, take the muslin off the birds and baste each one several times with this glaze to coat them well. When cold, dish up the birds on chopped aspic jelly with small dressed salad in the centre. Chartreuse de Faisan. Ingredients. A cooked Pheasant. Two ounces of Flour. One ounce of Butter. One gill of stock. Three tablespoonfuls of Brown Sauce. Two Eggs and the Yolk of an Egg, A teaspoonful of chopped Mushrooms. Pepper and Salt. Take the breast of the pheasant and cut it into neat pieces, add to this a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, a little salt and pepper, the yolk of one egg, and three tablespoonfuls of brown sauce. Then make a panada of two ounces of flour, one ounce of butter and one gill of stock; cook this well and turn it out to cool. Take the rest of the meat of the pheasant, about three-quarters ofHiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 74 a pound, pound it in the mortar with the panada, two eggs, pepper and salt, and pass it through a sieve. Grease a mould well and fill it with this mixture, leave a well in the centre, and fill it in with the minced breast of the pheasant, cover over with more of the mixture, smooth it over with a palette knife dipped in hot water, cover with a buttered paper, and steam steadily for one hour Sauce fok the above. Ingredients, The bones of the Pheasant. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Flour. One pint of Stock. One Tomato. One giU of Sherry. few drops of Lemon-juice. A Bayleaf, Thyme, Shalot. A few Mushrooms. Fry the bones in the butter with the herbs, add the flour and brown; then add the stock, tomato, and mushrooms; cook these well till reduced to half a pint; add the sherry and lemon-juice, strain, and pour over the Chartreuse. Chartreuse de Lievre. Ingredients, One Hare. Four tablespoonfuls of Brown Sauce. One Teaspoonful of chopped Mushrooms.75 EKTREES. Three Eggs. One ounce of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. One gill of good Stock. Pepper, Salt, and a little grated Nutmeg. Make a panada of the flour, butter, stock and seasoning, cook it well and turn it out to cool. Take one pound of cooked hare, and pound it in a mortar with this panada and two eggs, then rub it through a sieve and stir in two tablespoonfuls of good brown sauce. Grease a mould and fill in with this quenelle meat, leaving a well in the middle, into which put three ounces of the nicest parts of the hare cut into dice, mixed with one gill of good brown sauce, the yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, a little pepper and salt. Cover over this well when it is filled with more of the quenelle meat, and steam for one hour. Make the sauce of the bones of the hare chopped up, and fried in one ounce of butter with a bayleaf and a little thyme, clove of garlic, onion and carrot. When the flavour is well extracted add three gills of brown sauce, a little lemon juice, a teaspoonful of red currant jelly, a few grains of cayenne, and one gill of port wine. Boil all well together, and strain over the Chartreuse. Chicken Casuala. Ingredients, One Chicken. Two ounces of Butter. One Onion.HIGH-CLAS^ COOKERY. 76 One Egg. One quart of White Stock. Four Potatoes. Pepper and Salt. Cut up the onion and cook it in the butter; cut up the chicken into neat joints, add it to the onion, also the stock, pepper and salt, and let it all stew gently for half an hour. Peel the potatoes, cut them into slices not too thin, add these to the chicken and stew gently until the potatoes are cooked ; just before dishing up break the raw egg over, dish up neatly, and serve. Chicken Saute a la Marengo. Ingredients, One Chicken. One gill of Salad Oil. A few Truffles. Six Chives, cut small. Six Mushrooms. One gill of Tomato Sauce. One gill of Brown Sauce. Crotitons of Putf Paste. Cut the chicken in six pieces; put it in a stew- pan with the salad oil; let it brown, which will take about ten minutes, then pour away the oil; add the mushrooms, the tomato, and the brown sauce, also the chives and the truffles; it is best to put the stewpan in the oven, with the lid on, and let simmer for about half an hour. ThisENTEEES. 77 should be nicely arranged on a silver dish, and served with croutons of puff paste ; fried or poached eggs may also be used as a garnish. Civet de Lievre. Ingredients. One Hare. Half a pound of Bacon. Twenty-fonr Button Onions. Twelve Mushrooms. Bouquet Garni. Half a pint of Claret or Port Wine. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Cut the hare in neat pieces, wipe but not wash it; cut the bacon in strips, and fry in a saucepan; add the hare. Let it saute about ten minutes. Add the claret, bouquet garni, and mushrooms; let this simmer gently one hour, then add the brown sauce and the onions, which should be previously blanched ; let it simmer again for about half an hour, remove the bouquet garni, and serve with fried croutons. One gill of Tomato Sauce, Half a gill of Glaze, One tablespoonful of Chutneyj if added to this, makes a great improvement.78 HIOH-CLASS COOKERY. Cotelettes de Mouton a TAmbassa- drice. Ingredients, One best end of the Neck of Mutton. One ounce of Butter. One Shalot (chopped fine). One dessertspoonful of chopped Mushrooms. One ounce of Flour. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. One gill of Stock. The Yolk of an Egg. Pepper. Salt. A few drops of Lemon-juice. Two ounces of chopped Marrow. Trim the cutlets neatly, and cook them in a saute pan in a little stock covered over with a buttered paper. While these are cooking prepare the farce as follows: cook the butter and shalot together, then add the flour and cook well, stir in the mushrooms, parsley, yolk of egg, stock, pepper, salt and lemon-juice; let these cook with- out boiling, stir in the marrow and turn the farce out to cool. Mask the cutlets with this, smooth- ing it over with a knife dipped in water, egg, and bread-crumb, and fry in hot fat; dish up in a circle with the sauce poured over, and some nicely- cooked macaroni in the centre. Sauce for the above will be found amongst the sauces: Ambassadrice Sauce.ENTREES. 79 Creme de Volaille, Ingredients. Half a pound of the meat from the breasts of two raw Fowls. One pint of Double Cream. Pepper and Salt to taste. Pound the meat in a mortar, add pepper and salt to taste, and pass it all through a hair-sieve. Then add one pint of double cream, half whipped, mix these well together, and steam in a well- buttered mould very slowly for half an hour. It is best to try a little of the mixture in a patty- pan first, and if it is too stiff, add a little more cream. Turn out and serve with Bechamel sauce poured round; the sauce should be made with chicken stock. Rissoles de Volaille, Prepare some mixture as for Tartelettes of Chicken, page 85, make half a pound of puff pastry and roll out very thin; stamp out a round about the size of a teacup, and put a small piece of the mixture in the centre, brush over the edge, then fold over after well egging the edges. Egg and bread-crumb, and fry in hot fat and serve with fried parsley.HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 80 Cutlets a la Bretonne. Ingredients, Best end of a neck of Mutton. One gill of Bechamel Sauce* Half a pint of Haricot Beans, well cooked. Four Onions, well cooked. One ounce of Butter. Pepper and Salt. * Trim the cutlets, bread-crumb and fry them. Put the haricots and onions, previously well boiled, in a stewpan with the butter; season, and stir them over the fire. When they are hot, pass them through a tammy or hair-sieve, add the white sauce, dish the cutlets, and put the puree of beans and onions in the centre, pouring round a little thin brown sauce or half-glaze. Cutlets Chaudfroid a la Russe. Ingredients, Best end of a neck of Mutton. One pint of Aspic Jelly. One gill of good Glaze. Macedoine of Vegetables, consisting of Carrot, Potato, Cauliflower, Peas, Green Haricots, French Beans, Beetroot, Cucumber, all of which must be neatly cut in equal sizes, and carefully boiled in separate water, washed in cold water after, " to preserve the colour." Half a pint of thick Mayonnaise Sauce. Pepper and Salt. * For detailed directions how to cut and trim cutlets, see Mutton Cutlets k la Soubise, page 86.ENTREES. 81 The cutlets must first be cut, a bone to each cutlet, and not very much trimmed, then braized for an hour (in the oven is best) till the meat is quite tender ; take them out and press them until cold, when each cutlet should be very neatly trimmed, and dipped in the glaze until they have a smooth glace appearance. ISText chop the aspic, cutting from it first a few croutons to arrange round the cutlets. Put the chopped aspic on the dish, arrange the cutlets, and fill in the centre with the macedoine, which should previously be well stirred into the Mayonnaise sauce, leaving the beetroot to add at the last, as it discolours the other vegetables. This entree can be varied or ornamented, according to taste, with cut cu- cumber, small frills, etc. Cutlets a rEpicurienne. Ingredients, Best end of a neck of Mutton. One Onion. Pepper and Salt. One dessertspoonful of Vinegar. Two tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. Half a pint of Stock. A little Glaze. Two ounces of Butter. Some chopped Mushrooms. Trim the cutlets, lay them round in a saute-pan^ put in one ounce of butter, cover them with the G8^ tliGH-CLASS COOKERY. onion cut in slices, sprinkle over them some pepper and salt, and pour over all the stock, oil, and vinegar. Stew gently for about half an hour, take out the cutlets, glaze them, strain the sauce and reduce it; dish the cutlets on a border of mashed potatoes with the chopped mushrooms in the centre, and sauce poured round. Cutlets a la Milanaise- Ingredients. Strips of Tongue, j Strips of Truffles. >Equal quantities of each. Strips of Macaroni.; One gin of White Sauce. Best end of a neck of Mutton. One gill of Brown Sauce. One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Trim the cutlets, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in butter. Dish them on a border of mashed potatoes. Stir the tongue, truffles, and macaroni into the white sauce, and serve in the centre of the cutlets; pour the brown sauce round, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Proven9ale. Ingredients. Three pounds of the best end of a neck of Mlittoli. Half a pint of White Soubise Sauce.teNTKEES. 83 Six Mushrooms (chopped fine). One Shalot „ One small Onion „ Half a Clove Garlic (whole). One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. Yolks of four Eggs. Pepper and Salt, to taste. Brown Bread-crumbs. One teaspoonful of Parmesan (grated). Trim your cutlets, fry them, and press them until cold; remove all outside pieces, so that each cutlet may be the same size and shape. Put the soubise sauce in a saute-pan ; add the mushrooms, shalot, onion, garlic, pepper, and salt; when they have cooked ten minutes, take out the garlic, stir in the yolks of egg, and cook well, also the parsley; this will now form a stiff paste, which must be put on the cutlet on one side only. Sprinkle over each cutlet a little browned bread-crumb, to which has been added the Parmesan cheese. Put them in the oven to get hot through, dish them up, and serve with brown sauce or demi-glaze. Cutlets^ la Rachel. Ingredients, Six or seven Mutton Cutlets. Half a pound of Calf's Liver. Quarter of a pound of fat Bacon. A Pig's Caul. One small Carrot. One small Onion. Parsley^ Bayleaf, Thyme, all tied tdgether. G 2HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 84 One Shalot. One Clove of Garlic. Twelve Peppercorns. A small blade of Mace. Cut up the bacon and fry it for five liiinutes, liaving added the liver and other ingredients (except the cutlets and caul). When the liver is quite cooked, put all into a mortar and pound well; add seasoning to taste, and pass all through a wire-sieve. Trim the cutlets neatly; cook them, and press them between two dishes until cold. Mask them on one side with the liver farce; cover each one with a piece of caul; put in the oven to get hot; brush over with glaze. Dish in a circle on spinach or mashed potatoes; pour a little half- glaze round, some macedoine in the centre, and serve. Cutlets a la Reforme. Ingredients, Best end of a neck of Mutton. Two lean slices of Ham (chopped fine). One Egg. Bread-crumbs. One Carrot (cut in strips). Four Gherkins „ Four Mushrooms „ Four Truffles „ Whites of two Eggs „ (previously cooked). Cut the carrot into strips to cook. Cut the tegetables up neatly, put them in a stewpan, and keep them warm in a bain-marie. Cut the cutlets,ENTREES. 85 trim, mix the ham with the bread-crumb, pepper and salt, egg and bread-crumb them. Fry them a nice brown in about three ounces of butter; arrange them on a dish in a circle. Put the chips of vegetables in the centre of the cutlets, and pour Reform sauce round. Darioles de Volaille. (Tartelettes of Chicken.) Ingredients, Half a pound of Quenelle Meat. Six ounces of the breast of a cooked Ohioke^. Two ounces of lean cooked Ham. Six Mushrooms. One Truffle. One gill of White Sauce. Cut the chicken into very small pieces. Chop up the mushrooms, truffles, and ham, and stir into the white sauce. Butter well nine small moulds; line them neatly with the quenelle meat, not leaving a particle uncoated; fill in with the minced chicken; coat them neatly over the top with the quenelle meat. Steam them for twenty minutes; dish in a circle on spinach or mashed potatoes; pour good white sauce over and round, and serve peas or mixed vegetables in the centre.HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. 86 Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise- Ingredients. Best end of a neok of Mutton. One ounce of Butter, Pepper and Salt. Soubise Sauce. Take the best end of a neck of mutton, saw off the upper rib bones, leaving the bones which will form the cutlets about three inches long; then saw off the spine bone and cut off each cutlet, trim neatly, scraping the meat and fat clean off about half an inch of the top of each bone. Arrange the cutlets neatly round in a saute-pan, sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, add an ounce of butter, and cook the cutlets a nice brown on each side. Serve with Soubise sauce in the centre and a good gravy round the cutlets. Cutlets a la Vendtienne. Ingredients, Three pounds of the best end of neck of Mutton. Six ounces of QueneUe Meat. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Tongue. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Truffles. Three-quarters of a pint of good Brown Sauce. Strips of Tongue, Gherkin, and the White of Egg to garnish. Braize and press the mutton. When cold trim into cutlets. Cover one side of each cutlet withENTREES. 87 quenelle meat, and then dip in chopped tongue and truffles. Put the cutlets in a stewpan, pour in the sauce, cover with a buttered paper, and cook slowly about fifteen minutes. Serve on a border of mashed potatoes, the sauce round, and the garnish in the centre. Cotelettes de Veau. Ingredients, One pound of Veal Cutlets. Parsley and Thyme. Lemon-rind. One ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. One Egg. Pepper and Salt. Bread-crumbs. Trim the cutlets into a round shape, and beat them to half an inch in thickness with a cutlet-bat; chop up the thyme (which, when chopped, should fill a saltspoon), also the parsley. Melt the butter, add to it the chopped parsley, thyme, lemon-juice, and a little grated lemon-rind, one egg, pepper and salt to taste, and beat it all up together with a knife. Dip each cutlet into the plate and cover them all over with the mixture; then cover them with bread-crumbs and press the crumbs firmly on with a palette-knife. Fry the cutlets for ten minutes; dish in a circle on mashed potatoes, and serve with rolls of bacon in the centre and brown sauce poured round.88 HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. Escallopes de Poulet a la Financiere. Ingredients, The Legs of a Chicken. Half a pound of Veal. Quarter of a pound of fat Bacon. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Tongue. Truffles. Mushrooms. Two Eggs. Nutmeg. Cayenne and Salt. Two ounces of Butter. Three-quarters of a pint of Stock. Sauce for the Above. Ingredients. One gill of Sherry. Lemon-juice. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Chopped Truffles. Cockscombs. Tongues and Mushrooms. Bone the legs neatly; scrape and pound the veal and bacon, and pass through a sieve; add to this the two tablespoonfuls of chopped tongue, truffles, and mushrooms, the yolks of two eggs, nutmeg, salt and cayenne ; mix well together, and stuff the legs of the fowl with this, sewing them up neatly. Wrap them up in buttered paper, put them in a ^tewpan witli two ounces of butter and soineENTREES. 89" vegetables, cut up; then add three-quarters of a pint of brown stock; put the stewpan in the oven, baste well, and cook gently for one hour. When cooked, cut them in slices half an inch thick, and dish up on spinach. For the sauce: make the half pint of brown sauce, sherry, cayenne, and chopped truffles boil up once, and pour round the chicken, putting cockscombs, truffles, pieces of tongue, and mushrooms in the centre. Filets de BcBuf a la Bearnaise. Ingredients, Two pounds of FiUet of Beef, cut up into neat round fiUets. Two ounces of Glaze. Two ounces of Butter. One chopped Mushroom. Pepper and Salt. Try the fillets in butter with the mushroom and seasoning. When cooked, brush each one over with a little glaze. Dish the fillets in a circle on mashed potato or spinach. Serve Bearnaise sauce in the centre, with some glaze poured round.90 HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. Filets de Boeuf a la Mirabeau. Ingredients, One pound of Fillet of Beef. Six filleted Anchovies. Eight or ten turned Olives. A few sprigs of Watercress. Maitre d*H6tel Butter. Three ounces of Butter. Parsley. Lemon-juice. Salt and Pepper. Broil the fillet nicely, place a pat of Maitre d'Hotel butter on the top, and garnish round with the anchovies, olives, and watercress. For the Maitre d'Hotel butter, take Three ounces of Butter. One dessertspoonful of chopped Parsley. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Pepper and Salt. Work all the ingredients into a pat, and set the mixture in a cool place until wanted. Filets de Boeuf Piqu^ a la Flamande- Trim and lard carefully about three pounds of fillet of beef. Braize until cooked about forty-five minutes. Then cut the fillet in slices and arrange down the centre of the dish. Serve brown sauce round. Garnish with heads of braised lettuce,ENTREES. 91 carrots, and turnips turned into fancy shapes, rings of fried onions and little bits of streaky bacon. The carrots and turnips must be boiled separately. Filets de BcBuf aux Huitres. Ingredients, One pound of Fillet Steak. One Spanish Onion. Two pickled Walnuts. Two tablespoonfuls of Mushroom Ketchup, One dessertspoonful of Walnut Ketchup. One teaspoonful of Worcester Sauce. One dozen Oysters. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. Mix the butter and flour together in a stewpan ; peel and chop up the onion, cut up the walnuts, put them into the stewpan, also the ketchup and Worcester sauce. Lay the steak on these and let it stew for an hour, turning it every twenty minutes ; it must not hoil. Just before serving, put in the oysters, bearded, with their liquor strained through a fine strainer. Filets de BcBuf a la Pompadour. Ingredients. Three pounds of Fillet of Beef. Three Tomatoes. One ounce of Glaze. Five ounces of Butter,HIOH-CLASS COOKErvY. 92 Chopped Parsley, Lemon-juice. Macedoine. Trim off all the fat and skin, cut the fillet into neat pieces about half an inch thick. Fry quickly in two ounces of butter. Skin the tomatoes and cut them into slices, put them on a baking sheet with some pieces of fat cut into rounds, and bake for three or four minutes. Dish the fillets in a circle on mashed potato, put a piece of fat and tomato on each fillet, also a small pat of Maitre d'Hotel butter, made of three ounces of butter, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice mixed; pour some half-glaze round, and put some macedoine in the centre of the fillets. Filets de Boeuf k la Regence. Ingredients. Four pounds of Fillet of Beef. Half a pint of Madeira. Two quarts of Stock, and one pint of White Stock. Twelve Mushrooms. Ten small heads of Celeiy, or some Tomatoes. One ounce of Butter. Salt and Pepper. Carrots. Turnips. Onions. Larding Bacon. Take a nice tender fillet of beef, trim it and lard it, put it in a stewpan on a bed of carrots.93 feNTREES. turnips and onions cut up small; pour half a pint of Madeira over it, put the lid on, and let it cook for about twenty minutes. Butter some kitchen paper, and cover the steak over with it, add two quarts of stock, a little pepper and salt, and put the stewpan in the oven for about an hour and a half, basting it occasionally over the paper. Take out the fillet and strain, and reduce the stock to pour over the beef when dished up. Cook the mushrooms in the butter, cut the heads of celery into lengths of four inches, braise them in the white stock till quite tender. Put the fillet of beef at one end of the dish, and pour the reduced stock over it; and, at the other end of the dish, put the celery and mush- rooms. Serve very hot. Filets de Boeuf a la Russe, Ingredients. One pound Fillet of Beef. One gill of Glaze. Grated Horse-radish. Twenty-four Button Onions. One ounce of Butter. Pepper and Salt. Cut the beef into neat fillets, cook them on a gridiron, 'sprinkling a little pepper and salt on each fillet. When cooked, glaze them nicely and dish them up round mashed potato, putting a small piece of cooked fat on each fillet, and some grated horse-radish. Fry the onions in the butter,HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 94 put them in the centre of the fillets, pour round some good gravy, and serve very hot. Filets de Lifevre k la Montpensier. Ingredients^ A Hare. Two ounces of Butter. A bunch of Basil, Thyme and Parsley. A few Mushrooms. A teaspoonful each of Eecl Currant Jelly and Chutney. Salt, Cayenne, and Lemon-juice. Pig's Caul. One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Cut the meat out of the back of a hare on each side of the bone, cut this into neat fillets about an eighth of an inch thick, smooth them out with a wet knife, and trim them neatly. Put the butter, herbs, parsley, mushrooms, red currant jelly, chutney, salt, cayenne and lemon-juice into a saucepan, and cook a little; lay the fillets in this mixture to get nicely seasoned, cover each fillet with a small piece of pig's caul, egg and bread-crumb, and fry in boiling fat for seven or eight minutes 3 dish up on a border of hare farce, fill in the centre with strips of tomatoes and mushrooms. Make a sauce as follows :— Ingredients. Two ounces of trimmings of the Hare. One ounce of Glaze.ENTREES. 95 Two ounces of Butter. One ounce of Flour. One pint of Stock. One gill of Claret. Bayleaf, Tliyme, Marjoram, Parsley. One Clove of Garlic. Three Muslirooms. A teaspoonful of Red Currant Jelly. Cook all these ingredients together until reduced to half the quantity, stir well, and skim well; pass through a tammy, let it boil up again, skim if necessary, and pour over the hare. Filets de Lievre a la St. Stephens. Ingredients. One Hare. Half pint of Stock. One Carrot. One Onion. Four Cloves. Bouquet Garni. Larding Bacon. One Orange and One ounce of dried Cherries to dish up witli. Cut as many nice fillets off the hare as you can^ lard them and braise them in the stock, vege- tables, cloves and bouquet garni, watch them and baste them; when the bacon they are larded with turns a pale brown, the fillets are ready to serve. While the fillets are cooking, make some quenelle meat (see Quenelles, p. 117) of these ingredientSiman-CLAss cookery. 96 The Meat of the Hare that is left after the Fillets are cut. Two Eggs. One gill of Brown Sauce. Two ounces of fat Bacon. Pepper, Salt, a little Nutmeg. A teaspoonful of chopped Mushrooms. One ounce of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. When all this is made into quenelle meat and passed through a wire sieve^ butter some small moulds, fill them in with the quenelle meat and steam them twenty minutes. Sauce for the above. Ingredients, Bones of the Hare. Two ounces of Butter. A Bayleaf. A Clove of Garlic. Thyme. One ounce of Flour. One Orange. Stock the Fillets were cookedjn. Half pint of Claret. A teaspoonful of Red Currant Jelly. Salt, Lemon-juice, Cayenne. Chop up the bones of the hare, fry them in the butter with the bayleaf, thyme, garlic, and flour; then add the stock, jelly, claret, the juice and rind of one orange, a few drops of lemon-juice, salt and cayenne. Let this all boil for twenty minutes. To dish up the hare, turn out the moulds of quenelle meat, and place them in a circle on a dish; lay the fillets on the top with thin slices of97 ENTREES. orange in between each fillet; boil one ounce of dried cherries for five minutes in a little claret, take them out and place them in the centre of the fillets I strain the sauce and pour it over the har^. Filets de Veau k la Talleyrand^ Ingredients, One pound of FiUet of Veal. Four Mushrooms. Two Shalots. One tablespoonful of finely-chopped Parsley* One gill of White Sauce. Yolks of two Eggs. , One ounce of Butter. Lemon-juice. Cut and trim your cutlets neatly into round pieces; they should be all the same size; place them in a frying-pan with the ounce of butter and fry them, but do not let them brown; have ready the chopped mushrooms and shalots. Add to the cutlets. When nearly done, add the white sauce, saute them in it for three minutes. Add the yolks of egg, and, lastly, the finely-chopped parsley and some lemon-juice, stirring well all the time, until the sauce is thick. Dish in a circle on mashed potato, and pour the sauce over and round. Fricandeau de Veau. Ingredients. Three pounds of Cushion of Veal. Larding Bacon. H98 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Stock. One Carrot. One Onion. Three sticks of Celery. Bouquet of Herbs. Pare off the skin, and trim the veal into an oval shape; lard this neatly and closely with lard- ing bacon; put it into a stewpan on a bed of carrot, onion, and celery cut up ; the herbs tied together, and sufficient stock to half cover the veal; cover it over with buttered paper, and stew slowly for about an hour and a half; baste it about every ten minutes. When done, place the veal on a baking sheet in the oven for about five minutes to glaze the bacon. Strain the stock, free it from grease, boil it down to half-glaze. Eemove the veal from the oven, glaze it nicely, and serve it on a bed of spinach or sorrel, and pour the half-glaze round. A fricandeau may be served with tomato sauce or macedoine of vegetables, instead of spinach, etc. Fricassee de Poulet, Ingredients. One Chicken. One Carrot. Half an Onion. One stick of Celery. Parsley. One sprig of Thyme. One Bayleaf. Two Cloves. Six Peppercorns,BNTKEES. 99 One blade of Mace. One pint and a half of Second White Stock. One ounce and a half of Butter. One ounce and a half of Flour. Twenty-four Button Mushrooms. Fried Bread. One gill of Cream. Cut up the chicken into joints and lay it in cold water for ten minutes. Put the carrot, cut in slices, the onion, thyme, bayleaf, celery, parsley, cloves, peppercorns, and mace into a stewpan, with the stock and the pieces of chicken taken out of the water and wiped dry on a clean cloth; let these all boil gently for half an hour, then take out the pieces of chicken, wash them in cold water, and dry them; strain the stock into a basin. Peel the mushrooms and cut off the stalks, and put them into a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, the lemon-juice, and a tablespoonful of cold water; let this just boil up, and then turn them on to a plate. Put one ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour into a stewpan, and mix well together; add the stalks and trimmings of the mushrooms and the chicken stock, first taking off the grease thoroughly; stir till it boils, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes, with the lid half on; then skim off the butter which has risen to the top, and let it reduce to one pint. Add the cream, put the mushrooms and the pieces of chicken into a stewpan, strain the sauce over them, and, when quite hot, serve with pieces of fried bread round* H 2100 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Game Pie. Ingredients. One and a half pound of Flour. One and a half gill of Milk. Six ounces of Butter, The Yolk of an Egg. Pepi^er, Salt, Cayenne and Nutmeg. One pound of Yeal. One pound of fresh Pork. Game of all kinds—Pigeons, Pheasant, GrousCj Chicken, Larks, Quails—a little of each. Quarter of a pound of Ham, Liver Farce or Foie-gras. A tablespoonful of chopped Mushrooms. A tablespoonful of chopped Truffles. A teaspoonful of chopped Parsley and Pistachios^ Half a pint of good Stock. Chopped Aspic. Make a paste of the flour, mixing the butter and milk into it hot, add the yolk of egg, a little salt, mix and knead well. Line a raised pie-tin with this paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Mince the veal and pork together; season with salt, pepper, cayenne and nutmeg; place this mince all round the mould inside the paste; fill in the centre with fillets of pigeon, pheasant, grouse, chicken, strips of ham, and the larks and quails stuffed with liver farce or foie-gras; sprinkle over the chopped mushrooms, truffles, pistachios and parsley, a little pepper and salt; cover over with some of the mince, wet the paste round and lay on the top cover, close it well round the edge, trim it, and work up the trimmings ofENTREES. 101 paste to make an ornament for the top. Tie a band of buttered paper round the mould about three inches above the top, and bake in a steady oven for three hours. When the pie is nearly cold move the top ornament of paste, and pour in about half a pint of good stock, not too liquid or it will soak through the paste, replace the ornament, and when quite cold, dish up the pie, garnished with chopped aspic. Galantine of Fowl, Ingredients. One Fowl. Pepper, Salt, Aromatic Spice. Sausage Meat, about one pound. A little Tongue or Ham. Truffles and Pistachios. One hard-boiled Egg. One pint of Stock. A little Glaze. Some chopped Aspic Jelly. Bone a large fowl, draw the skin of the legs and wings inside, spread out the fowl flat on the table, season with pepper, salt, and a little aromatic spice. Spread a layer of sausage meat an inch thick upon the fowl, add some long stripes of tongue or ham, some good black truffles, a few Pistachio nuts and some stripes of hard-boiled egg; put a thin layer of sausage meat over all this, fold the fowl over both sides, roll it in a clean cloth, fasten the ends very tightly with string, braise it in some goodHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 102 stock for an hour and a half to two hours, according to the size of the fowl. When cooked and nearly cold, remove the cloth, as it always becomes loose, tie it up again tightly at both ends as before, press it between two dishes with weights on the top : when cold remove the cloth, glaze it all over, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly. Gibelotte de Lapin. Ingredients, One Babbit. Two ounces of Butter. One Onion. Two Shalots. One clove of Garlic. One pint Poivrade Sauce. Cut the rabbit in pieces; fry, or saute it in the butter: add the shalot, onion, and the brown sauce; put it in the oven for one hour, being care- ful it does not burn. Twelve small new potatoes, previously cooked, may be added to this, or pieces of cauliflower or croutons of fried bread. Grenadins de Veau. Ingredients. One pound of fillet of Veal. Larding Bacon. Half a pint of second Stock. Some Carrots, Turnips, Onion and Celery. A bunch of Herbs.ENTREES. 103 Cut the veal into neat cutlets, and half lard each one, braise them for half an hour in half a pint of second stock, put in a stewpan with a layer of carrots, turnips, onion, celery and herbs at the bottom, placing the grenadines on the vegetables ; cover them over with a buttered paper, and baste them repeatedly while cooking. When cooked, take out the grenadines, put them in the oven to brown. Strain the stock, and reduce it to one gill. Dish up the grenadines in a circle on mashed potato, pour the stock over, and serve some nicely-cooked vegetables in the centre. Grilled Steak a la Maitre d'Hotel. Ingredients, Half a pound of Eump Steak. Half an ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. One dessertspoonful of chopped Parsley. Salt and Pepper. Have a bright hot fire, place the gridiron over the fire to warm; grease the bars with a piece of fat, and lay the steak on it, let it cook for ten or fifteen minutes, turning it by sticking a fork into the fat, not into the meat. Mix the butter, parsley, lemon-juice, salt and pepper on a plate, into a little pat of green butter. When the steak is cooked put it on to a hot dish, and spread this pat of green butter over it.104 HIGH-CLASS COOKERYo Jugged Hare. Ingredients, One Hare. One Carrot. One Onion. One Turnip. A bunch of Sweet Herbs. Quarter pound of Butter. Three ounces of Flour. One pint of Stock. One glass of Port Wine. One tablespoonful of Ked Currant Jelly. Cut up the onion, carrot, and turnip and fry tliem in the butter in a stewpan with the herbs. Joint the hare into neat pieces and add it to the vegetables, and let it simmer gently for half an hour; then mix the flour into a thin paste with a little of the stock, stir it to the hare, add the rest of the stock, and cook slowly for one hour. Just before dishing up add the port wine and red currant jelly. Dish the hare up neatly, strain the sauce over it: add forcemeat balls if liked. Forcemeat Balls. Ingredients, Two ounces of Beef Suet. Three ounces of Bread-crumbs. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Quarter teaspoonful of chopped Thyme and Marjoram.ENTREES. 105 Half teaspoonful of grated Lemon-rind and Nutmeg. One Egg. Pepper and Salt. Chop the suet finely, mix all these ingredients well together, roll them up into small balls. Poach them in boiling water for a few minutes and they are ready to serve. Kromeskis a la Russe. Make some mixture as for Darioles (page 85), and set by to get quite cold. When cold make it up into small rissoles, like a cork, and roll each in a piece of fat bacon or ham, and dip into batter and fry a nice light brown. Serve with fried parsley on a napkin. Battek for Kegmeskis, Ingredients, Two Eggs. Two ounces of Flour (sifted). One tablespoonful of Salad Oil. One tablespoonful of Milk or Cream. Salt. Mix the milk and flour together, then add the yolks of the eggs, the oil and salt; whip the whites of the eggs and mix it very lightly. Dip eacli piece into the batter, and fry a nice light brown, and serve as above.HIOH-OLASS COOKERY. 106 Mauviettes en Caisse a la Lucullus. Ingredients. Larks, according to number wanted. Half a pound of Calf s Liver. Quarter of a pound of Bacon. Two Shalots. One clove of Garlic. Twelve whole Peppers. Six Cloves. Two Bay-leaves. A little Parsley. Marjoram. Thyme. Salt. Six Truffles, chopped fine. Three hard-boiled Eggs (yolks). First bone the larks, being careful not to break them. Then cut the bacon into small pieces, put it in a saute-pan with the shalot, garlic, and flavour- ing : let it fry until brown; add the liver cut in pieces, and cook over the fire until brown, but not too much cooked. Put the contents of the saute- pan into a mortar and pound it, then pass it through a wire sieve, return again to the mortar, and add the yolks of egg. When well mixed, add the truffles, and stuff each lark to resemble its natural shape. Oil some paper cases, and put each lark in a case. Brush over with salad oil and put in the oven until they are just cooked. Put the bones of the larks, half a pint of good stock, and one glass of Marsala^, into a stewpan,107 ENTREES. and reduce it all to one gill. When the larks are cooked, put a spoonful of this sauce over each. Mauviettes a la Chipolata. Ingredients. Eight or ten Larks. Two Sausages. Liver Farce. Half a pint of Stock. A few Vegetables. Bone the larks and stuff them with liver farce ; roll each lark up in a piece of muslin, and braise them in half a pint of stock and a few vegetables. When cooked press them lightly between two dishes till nearly cold. Dish the larks up on a bed of mashed lentils. Garnish the larks with the sausages thus: braise the sausages in second stock for about half an hour, then glaze them, cut them in slices and glaze again lightly, place one slice on the top of each lark. Put a few finely-shredded vegetables in the centre of the dish, as much white vegetable as possible. Sauce for the above. Ingredients, Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Half a pint of Tomato Sauce. One gill of Sherry. The Bones of the Larks. A few drops of Lemon-juice. Boil the brown sauce, tomato sauce, sherry,HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 108 and bones of the larks all together until reduced to half a pint; add a few drops of lemon-juice, strain through a tammy cloth and pour over and round the larks. Mayonnaise aux Huitres. I7igredients, Native Oysters, number as required. Mayonnaise Sauce. Mustard and Cress. The shells of the oysters must be well washed ; in the deep shell put a little mayonnaise sauce, sprinkle a little mustard and cress on it, and lay the oyster on the salad, leaving the beards on. Mayonnaise de Volaille. Ingredients, A cold boiled Fowl. Oil, Vinegar, Pepper and Salt. Mayonnaise Sauce. Salad, Cucumber, Tarragon, Chervil. Chopped Aspic Jelly. Cut up a cold fowl into small joints, and steep them for fifteen minutes in a basin with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Then drain them quite dry on a cloth, mask them all over very smoothly with some white mayonnaise sauce stiffened with a little aspic jelly. Dish up these pieces of fowl on a thick bed of well-seasoned salad, shred finelyENTREES. 109 in a pyramid form. Garnish the base with chopped aspic jelly, neatly cut cucumber, and the top with sprigs of tarragon and chervil. Minced Veal. Ingredients. One pound Minced Veal. One tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. The grated peel of half a Lemon. One teaspoonful of Cayenne Sauce. One blade of Mace. Half pint of Stock. Two dozen of Oysters. Sippets of Toast. Mince the veal and make it hot in the stock with the ketchup, cayenne sauce, lemon peel, and mace. When thoroughly hot, take out the mace; scald the oysters in their own liquor, taking off the beards; put the mince on a hot dish, the oysters in the centre and the sippets of toast round. Mousses de Faisan- Ingredients, Six ounces of Pheasant. One ounce of Butter. One gill of Cream. One gill of stiff White Sauce. Three Eggs. One tablespoonful of Sherry. Salt and Pepper. Take six ounces of the white meat of a110 HiaH-oLAss cookehy. pheasant, and pound it in a mortar with one gill of good white sauce, one ounce of butter, three eggs, and a little pepper and salt. When well mixed and pounded, rub this mixture through a hair-sieve, and stir in the tablespoonful of sherry and the gill of cream whipped. Butter some small moulds and decorate them with strips of tongue or of chillies; fill the mould with the pheasant mixture and steam steadily, not too fast, for twenty minutes. Pour some sauce, made from the bones and trimmings of the pheasant, round and serve very hot. The sauce must boil till quite clear. Noisette de Mouton. Ingredients, A Loin or Neck of Mutton. Fresh Muslirooms. Fresh Tomatoes. Glaze. Butter. Parsley. Eemove the fillet from a loin or a neck of Inutton, cut it into neat fillets crossways about half an inch thick; bat out these fillets and season them with fresh mushrooms chopped finely, and pepper and salt; place them in a buttered pan, and cook over a quick fire. Cook some chopped mushrooms in a little glaze, spread this mixture on a plate and cut out in neat squares^ place one square on each fillet of mutton; dish the fillets up on a large crouton of fried breadIll ENTREES. down the middle of the dish, and lay slices of warm tomatoes down each side of the crouton with a small piece of maitre d'hotel butter upon each one. Serve with good supreme or good brown sauce, round. Noix de Boeuf a la Chipolata. Ingredients. Three-quarters of a pint of Claret. Quarter of a pint of Water. One smaU Onion. Quarter of a smaU Carrot. Twenty Peppercorns. One Bayleaf. Two pounds of FiUet of Beef* Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Twelve Button Onions. Two ounces of Sausage Meat. Six Chestnuts. Trim the fillet of beef, tie it up carefully aiid put it into an earthen pan. Boil the claret, water, onion, carrot, bayleaf, and peppercorns togethel", and when the mixture is cold pour it over the beef and allow it to stand two days. Then braise the beef as usual for about forty-five minutes, and when cooked cut it into slices. Arrange these slices up the centre of the dish and pour brown sauce round. To garnish the entree have the onions fried broWn in butter, the sausage meat rolled in little pieces and cooked in the oven, and the chestnuts boiled tender in stock. Mix these together and serve in groups round the beef.HiaH-CLASS COOKEEY. 112 Ox Palates a la Financiered Ingredients. Six Ox Palates. One Carrot. Oiie Onion. One stick of Celery. A faggot of Parsley. Six Cloves. A blade of Mace. Six Peppercorns. A clove of Garlic. Salt. Two quarts of Stock. Quenelle Meat and fine Herbs. Financiere Kagout. Financiere Sauce. Soak the palates in water with a good handful of salt for several hours, cleaning them well; then parboil them in salt and water until the hard skin can be easily scraped off. When thoroughly clean put them on to cook in the stock with the onion, carrot, celery, parsley, cloves, mace, garlic, pepper- corns, and some salt; let them boil gently till quite tender, about four hours. Then press them between two dishes till cold; when cold cut them into pieces two inches wide and three inches long; spread each of these with a thin layer of quenelle meat in which some fine herbs have been mixed; each scollop must be rolled up tightly in a piece of buttered writing paper and placed in a saute-pan; simmer these for about twenty minutes in some of the stock in which the palates were cooked. Take them outENTREES. 113 of the papers, trim the ends off neatly, roll them in some half-glaze made by reducing some of the stock, dish them up in a conical form with Financiere ragout in the centre, and Financiere sauce poured over the entree. Compote de Pigeons. Ingredients. Three Pigeons. Quarter of a pound of Bacon. One small Carrot. One small Turnip. Two sticks of Celery. One small Shalot. Six Mushrooms, Bouquet Garni. One pint of Brown Stock. Seasoning. One tablespoonful of Flour. Cut the bacon into neat pieces and fry for five minutes. Cut the pigeons in half, truss each half as neatly as possible, and then fry them a nice brown on both sides; add the vegetables and stock, and simmer gently for one hour. Mix in a basin a tablespoonful of flour, pepper, and salt, and add a gill of the stock; half an hour before serving add the flour, etc., to the pigeons, and stir till it boils up and thickens. When cooked, dish the pigeons in a circle on mashed potatoes; strain the gravy round and over them, and put some peas or spinach in the centre. I114 HIOH-CLASS COOKEKY. Pigeons de Bordeaux a la Bourgeoise. Ingredients. Two Bordeaux Pigeons. Half pint of Brown Sauce. Six stoned Olives. Six pieces of Carrot turned in the shape of an olive. Six pieces of Turnip turned in the shape of an olive. Six Mushrooms. Eight small Quenelles shaped in teaspoons. Eight or ten croutons of fried Bread. Truss the pigeons for boiling and braise them for about forty-five minutes. Then cut them into about four pieces; arrange neatly on a dish; pour the sauce over and round. Place the pieces of carrot and turnip, the olives, mushrooms, and quenelles here and there as garnish, and stand the croutons round the base of the entree. The pieces of carrot and turnip must be boiled separately. Pigeons a la Duchesse. Ingredients, Three Pigeons. Quarter of a pound of Quenelle Meat. Egg and Bread-crumbs. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Macedoine of Vegetables to garnish. Split the pigeons in halves, remove the breast- bone and beat them flat. Saute them with twoENTREES. 115 ounces of butter, pepper, and salt. Then press them flat. When the pigeons are cold, spread the quenelle meat over the cut side of the birds. Then egg, crumb, and fry in fat. Dish in a circle, brown sauce round and macedoine in centre. Pigeons a la Financiere- Ingredients, Four Pigeons. One pint of good Stock. A block of fried Bread. One ounce of Glaze. Half a pint of Financiere Sauce. Small Quenelles. Mushrooms. Truffles. Cockscombs. Truss and braise the pigeons in the stock. When done, glaze them. Dish them up against the block of fried bread. Pour the sauce round the entree, and place the garnish of quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, and cockscombs in the centre. Pigeons a la Mazarin. Ingredients, Three Pigeons. Half a pound of Sausage Meat. One pint of Stock. One small Onion. I 2HIGH-CLASS COOKErvY, 116 One small Carrot. One Turnip, One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Half a pint of Tomato Sauce. Green Peas to garnish. Split the pigeons, take out the breast-bone, and braise them with the stock and vegetables for half an hour. Then press them fiat. When the birds are cold, spread the sausage meat over the cut side of each. Then egg and crumb and fry in fat. Dish in a circle. Tomato sauce round and peas in the centre. Quails a la Lucullus- Ingredients, Six or eight Quails, boned, which must be very carefully done. Twelve Livers from Game or Chicken. Three ounces of Bacon. One Shalot. Small Bouquet Garni, Twelve Peppercorns, Six Cloves. Pepper and Salt. Three Truffles. Cut up the bacon and put it in a saute-pan; let it cook for a few minutes, then add the livers, shalot, white peppers, cloves, and bouquet. Let this all cook carefully; pound all in the mortar, pass through a hair-sieve, then add the chopped truffles. Stuff each quail into shape, butter some117 Mtrees. paper cases; called " Quail cases/' or oil them, put the quail into the case, a few drops of salad oil on each, when they should be put in the oven for about ten minutes. ; / ) Sauce. Ingredients, - One gill of Brown Sauce. One tablespoonful of Glaze. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Truffles. Half gill of Sherry. Put the bones of the quails in a stewpan, add the glaze and brown sauce; let this boil to extract the flavour from the bones, strain, and add the trufiles and the sherry; put about one tablespoon- ful of this sauce over each quail when they are taken from the oven, after very carefully draining off all grease from the quails. Serve them in the cases. Quenelles of Veal- Ingredients. One pound of Fillet of Veal. One ounce of Butter. : Two ounces of Flour. Quarter pint of Second White Stock* Two Eggs. Salt. Mix one ounce of butter and two ounces of fl,our together in a stewpan, add one gill of stock,118 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. and cook these well together until quite thick and the mixture or panada leaves the sides of the stew- pan quite clean, then put it on a plate to cool. Cut up the veal into small pieces, removing all the fat and skin, pound it in a mortar with the panada, put half of it into the mortar with one egg (raw) and pound it to a cream, then half the veal, pepper and salt, and pound these well together; now add the rest of the panada, the veal, pepper and salt, and the other egg, and again pound all well together and rub through a wire- sieve, put this quenelle mixture into a basin. Butter a saute-pan, shape the mixture into quenelles with two dessert-spoons and a knife, thus: dip a dessert-spoon into hot water, fill it with the mixture, shape it oval with a knife dipped in hot water; take another dessert-spoon, dip it in hot water, scoop the mixture from the first spoon into the second and place it carefully into the saute-pan and so on, arrange the quenelles in the saute-pan, pour boiling water carefully into it, and poach them for ten minutes. Turn the quenelles carefully with a spoon, and when thoroughly cooked lift them out of the water, drain them on a clean cloth, arrange them tastily in a circle on a hot dish, pour white sauce over them, filling in the centre of the dish with button mushrooms cooked in stock, or peas, or spinach.119 ENTREES. Ris de Veau a I'ltalienne- Ingredients. One heart Sweetbread. One Carrot. One Turnip. One Onion. One pint of Second Stock. Larding Bacon. Fried block of Bread. Half a pint of Italienne Sauce. Twelve small Quenelles. One gill of Mushrooms. Steep the sweetbread in water for an hour. Then blanch it and press it slightly between two dishes. When cold, cut away the sinewy fat and lard it. Place the sweetbread in a stewpan with the vegetables and stock, cover with buttered paper, and braise carefully for twenty or thirty minutes. Then take it out of the stewpan, place it on a baking sheet, baste it well with its own liquor, and put it in the oven to brown. Serve on the block of fried bread, sauce round, and garnish with the quenelles and mushrooms. Ris de Veau a la Supreme. Ingredients. Two heart Sweetbreads. Half a pint of Button Mushrooms. One quart of Chicken or Veal Stock. Lemon-juice.HiaH-OiiASS COOKERY. 120 Nutmeg. Seasoning. Half a pint of Cream. Vegetables. Well wash the sweetbreads and cover them with cold water, add one tablespoonful of salt, and put them on the fire to boil for ten minutes. "Wash them again in cold water, and press them under a weight until cold; then take out the gristle, put them in a stewpan, and cover them with stock in which is a little vegetable, carrot, celery, onion, and small bouquet garni. Cover with a buttered paper and simmer gently about three-quarters of an hour; prepare the mushrooms, and with the trimmings of the mushrooms, the butter, flour, and stock, make a sauce, and let it well boil, then add the cream, lemon-juice, and seasoning. Strain the sauce and add mushrooms. Dish the sweet- breads on a croustade of fried bread, and cover with the sauce. An addition of green peas or haricots verts is an improvement, and the sweet- breads may be first larded with bacon or truffles. If larded they must be glazed with a little of the stock they were cooked in, and the sauce poured round, not over them. Rognons a TEpicurienne. Ingredients. Four Sheep's Kidneys. Two ounces of Butter. Half a pound of Quenelle Meat.One teaspoonful of chopped Onion. One teaspoonful of chopped Mushrojms. Salt and Pepper. Lemon-juice. Half a pint of Brown Italian Sauce. Small Quenelles or Mushrooms to garnish. Split the kidneys, remove the white skin, and saute them with the butter, onion, mushrooms, lemon-juice, and a little pepper and salt. Butter eight small oval moulds, and line them with the quenelle meat. Place half a kidney in each, and steam slowly for twenty minutes. Turn out care- fully. Pour the Italian sauce over, and garnish with the quenelles or mushrooms. Rognons aux Croutes. Ingredients. Four Kidneys. Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of chopped Ham. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. Half pint of good Stock. Fried Bread. Salt. Bacon. Skin the kidneys and cut them open, put them in a stewpan with the butter, ham, parsley, stock, and a little salt. Let them cook for five minutes, then dish them up on rounds of fried bread ; reduce the gravy to one gill, strain it and pour it over them, serve with some nice little pieces of fried bacon round.122 HIGH-CLASS COOKEKY. Croquettes a la Victoria. Ingredients. One gill of Supreme Sauce. Half a Chicken, minced. Half a Sweetbread „ Six Truffles Six Mushrooms „ Three Eggs. Mix all this into the sauce; stir in, when over the fire, the yolks of three eggs. Let this thicken, pour out on a dish, and when cold make up into croquet shapes. Egg and bread-crumb, and fry them a nice brown in boiling lard or fat. These should be dished on a napkin, served with parsley fried ; or they can be made into cutlet shape, and served with brown sauce, and peas or macedoine in the centre. Souffle de Perdrix. Ingredients, Two Partridges. Two ounces of cooked Rice. One ounce of Butter. Seasoning. One gill and a half of Glaze. Yolks of four and whites of two Eggs. Cook the partridges, remove all the meat from the bones, and pound with the rice, butter, season- ing, and glaze. Pass all through a hair-sieve; then add the yolks of eggs, and lastly the twoENTREES. 123 whites whipped to a stiiff froth. Put into a mould. Bake in a quick oven; serve with a good gravy round made from the game bones. Souffle de Volaille. Ingredients. One pound of raw Chicken. Three ounces of Butter. Four Eggs. Half pint of double Cream. Pepper and Salt to taste. Pound the meat in a mortar, then add gradually three ounces of butter, four yolks and two whites of eggs, season to taste, and then pass through a hair-sieve. Whip the remaining two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, half whip the cream, and stir these in very lightly to the chicken mixture. Steam very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out and serve with white sauce made from chicken- stock. Salmi of Cold Wild Duck. Ingredients, Wild Duck and the gravy left, or half pint of Stock. Two glasses of Port Wine. Four Shalots. One ounce of Butter. Half ounce of Flour.HiaH-GLASS COOKER'Y\ 124 The rind of one Orange. The juice of one Lemon. Half teaspoonful of Cayenne. A sprig of Thyme. Cut up the duck into neat pieces, and stew the trimmings of the duck in the gravy, with the Port wine, shalots, orange rind cut very thin, the lemon-juice, cayenne, and thyme, thicken with the butter and flour worked together. Stew this till reduced to half its quantity, then strain over the pieces of duck, warm all together without boiling, and serve. Stewed Steak a la Russe. Ingredients. One pound of Kump Steak. One Carrot. One Turnip. One Onion. Salt and Pepper. Half an ounce of Butter. Half an ouQce of Flour. Half a pint of Stock or Water. Cut off the fat and skin from the steak. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and fry the steak a nice brown on both sides ; add the flour and brown it; then add the vegetables, cut up into small pieces. Pour stock in with the steak, and stir till it boils, then draw the stewpan off the fire, and let it simmer gently for quite an hour. Shred some carrot and turnip, and boil separately. Take the fat of the steak, cut it into nice125 pieces, and cook it in the oven. When the steak is cooked, put it on a hot dish, season the gravy with pepper and salt, and strain it over the meat; place the pieces of fat on the meat, and garnish with the shredded vegetables. Supreme de Faisan k la Beaufort. Ingredients. Breasts of Pheasants. A few drops of Lemon-juice. One gin of good Brown Sauce. Two gills of Mayonnaise. Aspic Jelly. Cut the breasts of one or two pheasants into neat fillets free from skin and bone, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, sprinkle over them a little salt and a few drops of lemon-juice, cover them with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for about ten minutes. Press the fillets till cold, trim them again a little, cover one side of the fillets with good Chaudfroid brown sauce, and the other side with Mayonnaise, set them in a saute-pan with aspic jelly; when set cut them out, dish them on a border of aspic the white side up, serve with salad in the centre. Timbales a la Moelle de Boeuf, Ingredients. Half a pound of Chicken. Half a gill of white Sauca126 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Half a gill of Cream. One Egg. One ounce of Panada. Salt and Pepper. Two ounces of beef Marrow. Pound the chicken, panada, eggs and seasoning all together, pass through a hair-sieve, stir in the sauce and cream very carefully; grease your tins, and fill with the mixture, put in the centre a slice of marrow; cover over and steam for ten minutes, serve with good sauce round. Timbales de Volaille (No. 1). Ingredients, Half a pound of Quenelle Meat. Six ounces of the breast of a cooked Chicken. Two ounces of lean cooked Ham. Six Mushrooms. One Truffle. One gill of White Sauce. Cut the chicken into very small pieces. Chop up the mushrooms, truffles, and ham, and stir into the white sauce. Butter well nine small timbale moulds; line them neatly with the quenelle meat, not leaving a particle uncoated; fill in with the minced chicken; coat them neatly over the top with the quenelle meat. Steam them for twenty minutes; dish in a circle on spinach or mashed potatoes; pour good white sauce over and round, and serve peas or mixed vegetables in the centre.ENTREES. 127 Timbales de Volaille (No. 2). The mixture as for SoufEe de Volaille put into a mould well greased, and lined all through with pieces of cooked macaroni, cut in equal lengths, and fitted quite evenly (to do this, use a long trussing or larding needle); fill in with the Volaille, and steam one hour. The beauty of this dish depends entirely on the evenness with which the mould is lined with the pieces of macaroni. It must be turned out very care- fully. Serve with white or brown sauce round. Tendrons de Veau a la Tartare. Ingredients. The thick end of a breast of Veal. A Carrot, Onion, Turnip. Two sticks of Celery. Bunch of Parsley, Cloves, Peppercorns. One quart of Stock, Salt. Egg and Bread-crumbs. Cold Tartare Sauce. Mixed Pickles. Eemove the meat from the tendons, cut them right along the end of the rib-bones, divide the tendon or gristle part into square pieces about the size of a cutlet, put them into a stewpan with the stock and all the herbs and vegetables, let them cook very gently for about four hours. When quite tender lift them out carefully, place themHIGH-CLASS COOKEHY. 128 between two dishes till nearly cold, trim them neatly, egg and bread-crumb them, fry them a light brown, dish them up on cold Tartare sauce, garnish with pickles and serve. Tendrons de Veau a la Villeroy. Ingredients. Two pounds of breast of Veal braised. Quarter pound of Liver Farce (see Cutlets a la Kachel). Quarter pint of thick Bechamel Sauce. Egg and Bread-crumbs. Half pint of Brown Sauce. Macedoine to garnish. Cook the veal carefully until done, about one and a half hours. Then pull out the bones, and press itflat. Wlien cold trim into cutlet-shaped pieces. Cover each piece with liver-farce, and then with Bechamel. Egg and crumb carefully, and fry in sufficient fat to cover. Arrange the tendrons in a circle, pour the brown sauce round, and place the macedoine in the centre. Tete de Veau en Tortue. Ingredients, Half a Calf's Head. One Carrot. One Onion. Two sticks of Celery. Two tablespoonfuls of Flour. One gill of Vinegar. One tablespoonful of Salt.ENTREES. 129 Half a calf's head ; wash and clean well, remove the brains, pnt it in a stewpan, cover with cold water, and add the carrot, onion, celery, flour, and one gill of vinegar (this is added to make th-e head keep white), and the salt. Skim well when boil- ing; let it simmer two hours, when serve with Piquante sauce. Garnish with the brains and tongue cooked separately. Vol-au-Vent a la Toulouse* Ingredients. Half a pound of Puff Paste, which must only have had six turns, from which cut either small cases, or one ordinary-sized vol-au- vent case, and bake till a nice brown in an oven not too hot; when baked remove the centre. Put in a stewpan— Half a pint of Supreme Sauce. Half a cold CMcken or Sweetbreads, cut in neat pieces. Two ounces of Tongue. Three Truffles, sliced. Six Mushrooms „ Four Cockscombs. A few quenelles of Veal or Chicken. Stir this over the fire until hot, but not boiling; fill in your vol-au-vent, which should only be done on sending it to table, as it makes the paste damp, and does not appear so satisfactory when filled long before serving, KHiaH-dLA^S dOOKEEX. 130 SAUCES. Espagnole. Ingredients. One pint of Brown Stock. \ Two ounces of Butter. > Eoux. One and a half ounces of Flour. J Six Mushrooms. One Carrot. \ One small Onion, v Mirepoix. One Shalot. j Two ounces of Ham or lean Bacon. One gill of Tomato Sauce. One glass of Sherry. Wash, peel, and cut up the carrot, mushrooms, onion, and shalot; put them into a stewpan and fry a good brown; stir in the flour, and last of all, the stock; let it boil thirty minutes, then add the tomato sauce, the sherry, and season with pepper and salt; let it boil up again, skim it, strain it through a tammy cloth, and it is ready for use. This sauce is the foundation of nearly all brown sauces.SAUCES. 131 Supreme Sauce (or Veloute). Ingredients. Two ounces of fresh Butter. One and a half ounce of Vienna Flour. One pint and a half of White Stock, made from Chickens, Veal, or Kabbit. Half a pint of Cream. Twelve Peppercorns (white). A few Parsley-stalks. Juice of half a Lemon. Salt. Put the butter in a clean stewpan ; when melted, add the peppercorns, parsley-stalks, then stir in the flour. Cook this over the fire, stirring all the time, for ten minutes, then add the stock; stir again till it has well boiled; add the lemon-juice and salt, and, if at hand, some trimmings of white mushrooms, previously well washed and all water removed. Pass through a tammy-cloth, then add the cream, and it is ready for use. This sauce is the foundation of all the best white sauces, and it must be well boiled to make it velvety.'' Bechamel Sauce. (A Cheaper White Sauce.) Ingredients. One pint of Milk. One small Carrot. One gill of Cream. One stick of Celery.HIGH-CLASS COOKERt. 1S2 One Bayleaf. One Shalot. One Clove of Garlic. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce and a half of Flour. Ten Peppercorns. Cut up the carrot, celery, shalot, and put them with the garlic, peppercorns, and bayleaf into a stewpan to simmer for a few minutes, but not to brown : mix the butter and flour together, add to the vegetables, whisk in the milk, and let it boil for ten minutes. Then strain through a tammy- cloth, re-heat, and add the cream. Sauce Allemande. Ingrcdiciits, One and a half ounce of Butteri One ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Chicken Stock. Pepper, Salt and Nutlneg. Two Yolks of Eggs. A tablespoonful of Cream. A teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir a few minutes without allowing it to brown. Add the chicken stock and stir until it boils. Season with pepper, salt and grated nutmeg. Let it simmer for half an hour. Skim, and finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of cream, and half an ounce of butter. Stir over the fire until the eggs begin toSAUCES. 133 set, but do not let it boil. Add a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and pass the sauce through a fine strainer or a tammy cloth. This sauce is the foundation of many fish sauces. Bearnaise Sauce. Ingredients. Four Shalots. Half a gill of Tarragon Vinegar. Half a gill of Vinegar. One gill of White Sauce. Yolks of three Eggs. Two ounces of Butter. Chop up the shalots and put them into a stew- pan with the vinegar, and boil till reduced to a tablespoonful; then add the white sauce, mixing it well; add one at a time the three yolks of eggs, whisking each one well in before adding another, and on no account let it hoiL When the eggs are in, remove the stewpan from the fire and whisk in the butter in small pieces, taking care that each piece is dissolved before adding the next, as, if the butter is added too quickly, the sauce will oil. Strain it, and it is ready for use.134 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Bombay Sauce (No. 1). Ingredients, Two spoonfuls of Brown Sauce. One spoonful of Curry Powder. Two spoonfuls of Glaze. Two spoonfuls of Tomato Sauce. A little chopped Indian Pickle; and A little chopped or grated Ham, Bombay Sauce for Ham or Roast Hare (No. 2). Ingredients. One ounce and a half of Butter. One clove of Garlic. One Shalot. One Onion. One teaspoonful of Chutney^ Half a pint of good Stock. One teaspoonful of Curry Powder. One ounce of chopped Indian Pickle and Chilli. One gill of very good Espagnole Sauce, Fry the shalot, garlic and onion in the butter, then add the curry-powder, also the chutney and stock; boil all well for twenty minutes, then add the sauce, boil it all well and skim it. Wring through a tammy, and add the chopped pickle.BAUOES. 135 Bread Sauce, Ingredients, One gill of Bread-crumbs, One small Onion. Five Peppercorns. Half a pint of Milk, Salt. One tablespoonful of Cream. Put the milk into a stewpan, when boiling add the crumbs, onion, salt, and peppercorns, and let it stand by the fire for fifteen minutes to soak the bread, then stir it and add the cream. Before serving, take out the onion and peppercorns. Sauce a rAmbassadrice, Ingredients. Half a pint of Espagnole Sauce, One gill of Port Wine. One teaspoonful of Eed Currant Jelly. One tablespoonful of Lemon-juice. A pinch, of Sugar, Cayenne, and Salt, Two ounces of Sultanas, blanched. Boil these all well together, add the sultanas and serve. Sauce a la Cardinal. For Fillets of Sole or WniTma. Ingredients, Coral from a Lobster. One ounce of Butter,136 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. One ounce of Flour. Half pint of Fish Stock. A teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Half gill of Cream. C^^yenne and Salt. Pound the coral in a mortar with the butter and pass it through a hair-sieve, put the stock into a stewpan, mix the flour into a smooth cream with a little of the stock, add this to the rest with the coral butter, stir till it boils and thickens; then add the lemon-juice, cream, cayenne, and salt, te taste, Sauce Chaudfroid Blanche- (White Chaudfroid Sauce.) Ingredients. Half a pint of Veloute or Supreme Sauce. One gill of Cream. One gill of Aspic Jelly. Four sheets of French Gelatine. One teaspoonful of Chilli Vinegar ; Or, a dessertspoonful of Lemon Juice. Warm up the Supreme Sauce and the aspic separately, then mix both together, soak the gelatine leaves, squeeze them dry and add to the sauce, add the vinegar or lemon-juice, boil up, allow this to simmer for a few seconds, pass through a tammy cloth or fine strainer, add the cream and use as directed.137 SAUOES. Sauce Chaudfroid Blonde. (Brown Chaudfroid Sauce.) Ingredients, One pint of rich Espagnole Sauce. Half a gill of Sherry. Six Sheets of French Gelatine. One gill of Aspic Jelly. Two tablepoonsfuls of Cream. Warm up the Espagnole Sauce, add the sherry, soak the gelatine, squeeze out the moisture, add it to the sauce with the melted aspic jelly, let it boil for a few minutes, skim well, and pass through a tammy cloth; let it cool a little and add the cream, season if necessary, and use as directed. Sauce Chaudfroid Verte. (Green Chaudfroid Sauce.) Ingredients, Half a pint of rich Bechamel Sauce. One gill of Aspic Jelly. Half a gill of Puree of Green Peas. A teaspoonful of Lemon Juice. Five to six sheets of French Gelatine. Half a gill of Cream. Two to three drops of Spinach Greening. One dessertspoonful of liquid Meat Glaze. Proceed as for Sauce Chaudfroid Blanche. See that the puree of peas is well reduced before it is added to the sauce. The addition of spinach greening may be omitted if the sauce is sufficiently tinted with the peas. Add the meat gla^e last of all138 HiaH-OLASS COOKEEY. Celery Sauce. Ingredients. Four heads of Celery. Four ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Flour, Onepint of Milk. One gill of Cream. A little Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt. Clean the celery very thoroughly, and slice it up very thinly, put it into a stewpan with the butter, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Let it stew slowly until the celery is dissolved: it will take some time, and it must not brown. When it has dissolved, stir in the flour, mix it well, then stir in the milk and boil it for twenty minutes. Eub it through a hair-sieve, warm it up again, stir in the cream, and serve. Sauce Demi-glace. (Half-glaze Sauce.) Ingredients, Half pint Grravy from Koast Meat; Or, a gin of Liquid Meat Glaze. Half gill Brown Sauce or Espagnole Sauce. One glass Sherry. Eeduce the gravy to half its original quantity, add the brown sauce and sherry, boil up, skim, and strain. Season to taste with pepper and salt. If meat glaze is used in place of gravy, warm up in the bain-marie, add sauce and wine, stir over the fire until it boils, then strain, season and serve,SAUCES. 139 Financiere Sauce. Ingredients, Quarter of a pint of Sherry. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Glaze. One tablespoonful of chopped Mushrooms or Truffles. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Put the sherry, butter, glaze, and chopped mushrooms or truffles into a stewpan, and cook for five minutes. Then add the brown sauce ; boil till it coats the spoon. Strain, and it is ready to serve. FlNANCIEEE EaGOUT. Sliced Truffles. Scollops of Foie Gras. Cocks- combs. Mushrooms, and Quenelles. German Sauce, Ingredients, Two Eggs. One wineglassful of Sherry. One dessertspoonful of Castor Sugar. Put the yolks of eggs into a stewpan with the sherry and sugar. Whisk this over the fire until it comes to a thick froth, taking care that it does not curdle.HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. Sauce Hollandaise. Ingredients. Half a pint of melted Butter. Yolks of five Eggs. Two teaspoonfuls of Lemon-jiiiee, Salt and Cayenne. Put the butter and yolks of eggs into a stewpan; stand it in a saucepan of hot water, and whisk it well over the fire till it thickens; it must not boil, or it will curdle and be spoilt. Season to taste with salt and cayenne, and at the last stir in the lemon-juice. Horse-radish Sauce. Ingredients. One gUl of whipped Cream. Two ounces of grated Horse-radish. Salt, Pepper, mixed Mustard. One tablespoonful of White Yinegar. Mix together and serve. Sauce Italienne. Ingredients. Two Shalots. Six Mushrooms. One ounce of Butter. A sprig of Thyme. Bayleaf.141 SaucSs. Oue gill of Sherry. One ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Second Stock. Chop the shalots and mushrooms and fry them in the butter with the flour, thyme, and bayleaf, till a good brown; then add the sherry, let it boil till reduced to half the quantity. Add the stock, and boil for ten minutes. Strain it, and it is ready for use. Lobster Sauce. Ingredients. One Lobster. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Water. One tablespoonful of Cream. Half a teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Salt and Cayenne. Eemove the flesh from the tail and claws and cut it up into dice. Take the coral, wash and dry it, pound it with one ounce of butter and rub it through a hair-sieve. Put into a stewpan one otlnce of butter and the flour. Mix these over the fire and add half a pint of water, stir well, and boil the sauce a few minutes. Then add the coral, butter, the pieces of lobster, the seasoning, and the cream. Mix and warm thoroughly, and the sauce is ready.HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 142 Mayonnaise Sauce. Ingredients. Two Eggs. Salt and Pepper. One teaspoonful of Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. Half a teaspoonful of made Mustard. One gill of Salad Oil. Put the yolks of eggs into a basin, with a salt- spoonful of salt and half a saltspoonful of pepper ; break the yolks with a wooden spoon, and pour in, one drop at a time, the gill of oil, whisking it well the whole time. At the last, stir in the vinegar and the mustard. The sauce, when properly made, must be as smooth and as thick as double cream. Oyster Sauce. Ingredients. One dozen Oysters. Half an ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. One tablespoonful of Cream. Lemon-juice, Salt, and Cayenne. Put the oysters into a stewpan with their liquor, and bring them to the boil. Strain the liquor into a basin. Eemove the beards and the hard parts of the oysters, and cut the soft parts into two pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, then the oyster liquor, and boil the sauce five minutes. Add the cream, salt, cayenne, lemon-juice, and pieces of oysters^143 SAUCES. Sauce Piquante. Ingredients. One Shalot. Half a Carrot. Three Mushrooms. One sprig of Thyme. One Bayleaf. One ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of Harvey Sauce. Half an ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Brown Stock. Two tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. Salt and Cayenne. Clean and cut up the vegetables very fine, reduce them in the vinegar and fry them brown in the butter and flour in a stewpan ; then stir in the stock, also the thyme, bayleaf, and Harvey sauce, let it simmer for twenty minutes ; then add the salt and cayenne, strain through a tammy, and it is ready for use. Sauce Suedoise. Cold Fish Sauce foe Tkout or Salmon. - Ingredients. One gill of White Sauce. One gill of Mayonnaise Sauce. One gill of thick Cream. Two spoonfuls of grated Horse-radish. Some chopped Indian Pickle, Pepper, Salt and Cayenne. Mix these ingredients and freeze.HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 144 Poivrade Sauce. Ingredients, One head of Celery. Two Carrots. Two Onions. One Shalot. One Clove of Garlic. One Turnip. Two Leeks. Three Tomatoes. Twenty-four whole Peppercorns. Six Cloves. A blade of Mace. Bouquet Garni (Thyme, Bayleaf, Parsley, and Marjoram). Quarter of a pound of lean Ham. Three ounces of Flour. Three pints of Stock. Half a pint of Vinegar. Pepper and Salt. Shred and wa^sh the vegetables clean; put them in a stewpan with the ham and butter; fry them, but not very brown; add the vinegar, and let it boil till quite reduced ; then stir in the flour, also add the stock. Stir well, and simmer gently one hour ; pass through a tammy, and it is ready for use. Sauce Reforme. Ingredients. Half pint of Poivrade Sauce. One tablespoonful of Bed Currant Jelly. One glass of Port Wine. Cayenne Pepper^SAUCES* 145 When the Poivrade sauce is boiling stir in the red currant jelly, the port wine, and a little cayenne. Let it boil about ten minutes, strain, and it is ready for use. Soubise Sauce. Ingredients, Six large Onions. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of White Sauce. One gill of Cream. Pepper, Salt, and Castor Sugar. Peel and slice the onions, boil them in the milk till quite tender, then press out all the milk and rub them through a hair-sieve; put them into a stewpan with the white sauce and reduce it to half the quantity, stir in the cream, pepper, salt, and a little castor sugar. This sauce is now ready for use. Sauce Verte- CoLD Green Sauce fok Fish. Take some tarragon, chervil, parsley, and a little shalot. Blanch and pound in a mortar with a little butter, and pass it through a hair-sieve; add a little white sauce made with fish stock, season with pepper, salt and cayenne, then freeze. li146 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Tartars Sauce. Ingredients, Two yolks of Eggs. Salt and Pepper. One gill of Salad Oil. One tablespoonful of French Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. One teaspoonful of made Mustard. One tablespoonful of chopped Gherkins or Capers. Put the yolks into a basin, add salt and pepper, and stir well with a wooden spoon. Add the oil drop by drop, stirring well all the time. Then put in the mustard, vinegar, gherkins, or capers, and the sauce is ready. Sauce Tomate. Ingredients. One pound of Tomatoes. Three Shalots. One Bayleaf. A sprig of Thyme. Twelve Peppercorns. Salt. One ounce of Butter. Two ounces of lean Ham. One tablespoonful of Vinegar. Put the butter into a saute-pan. Peel and cut up the shalots and chop up the ham; put these into the saute-pan with the peppercorns, vinegar, salt, thyme, bayleaf, and the sliced tomatoes. Stir this over the fire for about fifteen minutes ^SAUCES. 147 till it is well reduced ; then rub it all through a hair-sieve; return it to the saute-pan to re-heat, and it is ready for use. Wine Sauce. Ingredients. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One gill of Water, One tablespoonful of Jam. One wineglassful of Sherry. Half a teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Put the sugar and water into a stewpan and stir till the sugar is melted; boil and reduce to syrup, stir in the jam, and, when well mixed, stir in the wine and lemon-juice; let it boil up to cook the wine. Brandy Sauce. Ingredients. Three Eggs. One gill of Cream or Milk. One wineglassful of Brandy. One dessertspoonful of Castor Sugar. Put the yolks of eggs into a milk saucepan, add the cream, brandy, and sugar; whisk all well to- gether for six or eight minutes. Be careful that it does not curdle.HIGH-CLASS COOKEKY, 148 Custard Sauce, Ingredients, One Egg. One gill of Milk. One teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. Eight drops of Essence of Vanilla. Break the egg into a milk saucepan, add the sugar, milk, and vanilla, and whisk it over the fire till it thickens, taking care that it does not curdle,( 149 ) VAKIOUS BECIPES. To boil a York Ham.* To choose a ham:, select one with a smooth thin skin and a neat plump shape, not too long. Eun a skewer down the knuckle by the bone and it should smell sweet and savoury, not strong or rancid ; it should not be too hard, but be elastic to the touch. Having selected your ham, saw off the knuckle-bone quite close, soak it for twenty- four hours in cold water, scrape it clean from dirt and slime, and put it on in cold water to boil with plenty of fat in the water; let it simmer steadily for three hours, and allow it to get cold in the water. Take it up, remove the rind, trim the surface of the fat smoothly with a knife; put it on a baking sheet in the oven for a few minutes, then dab it with a clean cloth to absorb the grease. Take a paste-brush and paint it all over with glaze; when thoroughly cold, garnish with chopped aspic jelly. Instead of glazing the ham you can * A ham of 12 to 14 lbs. weight takes four hours to cook.150 HiaH-CLASS COOKER"^. sprinkle raspings all over it. If the ham is to be eaten hot, it must be skinned, put in the oven, covered with buttered paper to get hot through, for about half an hour, then glaze it, and garnish with green peas, or Brussels sprouts, spinach, etc. To boil an Ox Tongue. A pickled tongue should be soaked for two or three hours in cold water. Then put it on to boil in cold water with a bunch of savoury herbs. Let it come slowly to the boil, skim it well, and let it boil slowly for about three hours. ]. When done, take it up, plunge it into cold water so that you can skin it easily: this must be done carefully, especially at the tip of the tongue. When skinned, set the tongue with the root end against a board or a wall, stick a dishing-up fork through the root into a board, stick another fork in front of the tip of the tongue, to get it into a good shape so that it will stand well; when quite cold trim off the root and glaze it, put a rouche round the root, garnish with parsley, and serve. If to be eaten hot, it must be wrapped up in buttered paper and made hot in boiling water for a quarter of an hour, then glazed and garnished with tufts of cauliflower or Brussels sprouts, and served with tomato, piquante, or poivrade sauce.151 VAKIOUS RECIPES. Boiled Pheasant. Truss a pheasant for boiling, stuff it either with oyster stuffing as for turkey or with chestnuts. The chestnuts must be boiled and skinned first, stuff at the neck end. Put the bird breast downwards into hot water, and let it boil gently for from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour according to size. Serve with celery sauce poured over and round. Boiled Turkey and Oyster Stuffing. Ingredients for stuffing. Quarter pound of Snet. Grated rind of half a Lemon. A teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Salt, Cayenne, and grated Nutmeg. Six ounces of Bread-crumbs. Two Eggs. Three dozen Oysters. Stuff the turkey with the above ingredients mixed thus : chop the suet very fine, mix it with crumbs, and the lemon-peel grated, chopped parsley, salt, cayenne, and grated nutmeg; take the beards off the oysters, add them and their liquor strained, and lastly the eggs; mix all well together, and fill the turkey with this stuffing at the neck end. Put the turkey breast downwards into hot water, let it come to the boil, skim it well, and152 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. boil gently for an hour and a half to an hour and three-quarters according to size. Serve with celery sauce poured over and round. Braized Ox Tongue. Ingredients. A fresh Tongue. Three quarts of Second Stock. A good Bouquet Garni. One Onion, whole Peppercorns, three Cloves, and Salt. Steep a fresh tongue in cold water for an hour, then put it into a stewpan with three quarts of second stock, an onion, a bunch of herbs, pepper- corns, cloves and salt: let it boil steadily for three hours. Take it up, strip off the white skin very carefully, trim off the root and rough parts of fat, etc., glaze it well and put it in the oven for twenty minutes. Serve with Piquante or Italian sauce; and spinach round it. Shoulder of Mutton Stuffed and Braized. Ingredients. One small shoulder of Mutton. Three quarts of Second Stock. One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. One teaspoonful of sweet Herbs.153 VARIOUS RECIPES. One Shalot. ' Two ounces of chopped Bacon. Two ounces of Bread-crumbs. Two ounces of chopped Fowl or Game. One Yolk of Egg. Pepper and Salt. One dessertspoonful of chopped Mushrooms. Bone a shoulder of mutton, mix all the above ingredients well together and stuff the mutton with them, roll it up into a neat shape not too long, sew it up, braise it in the stock for about two hours according to size. When done, take it out and glaze it: serve with brown or piquante sauce. This joint is very nice baked. Lark Pudding. Ingredients, Six Larks. Half a pound of FiUet Steak. Six Oysters. Half a pound of Liver Farce. One Shalot. A teaspoonful of chopped Mushrooms. Grated Nutmeg. Pepper and Salt. One gill of Brown Sauce. Suet Paste. Grease and line a pint-and-a-half pudding basin with good suet paste. Bone and clean the larks, stuff each one with liver farce with an oyster in the middle, wrap each lark up in a thin strip of steak, season each piece of steak with pepper and154 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. salt and a very little grated nutmeg. Put some pieces of steak in the bottom of the basin, put the roUed-up larks in neatly, sprinkle over the chopped shalot and mushrooms, pour in the brown sauce, fill in with any pieces of steak left, wet round the edge of the paste, put on the top crust, tie it up in a cloth tightly, plunge into boiling water and boil gently for two hours. Partridge Pudding. Ingredients. Two Partridges. Half a pound of Veal Cutlet. One gill of good Brown Stock. Pepper and Salt. One Shalot. Chopped Mushrooms. Suet Paste. Grease and line a pint-and-a-half pudding basin with good suet paste, cut up the veal cutlet and place it in the bottom of the basin, cut up the partridges into neat joints, lay them on the cutlet, sprinkle over pepper, salt, chopped shalot, and mushrooms, pour in the stock, wet the edge of the paste, put on the top crust, tie over with a cloth, plunge into boiling water and boil steadily for two hours.( 155 ) YEaETABLES AND SALADS. Asparagus. Pick off the loose leaves, scrape the stalks, and wash them in cold water; cut all the stalks the same length, and tie them together in small bundles, the heads all the same way. Put the asparagus into hot water with a little salt, and boil gently for about twenty minutes till tender, taking care not to break the heads. Serve the asparagus on a slice of thick toast dipped in the water the asparagus was boiled in. Hand melted butter with a few drops of lemon-juice in it. Jerusalem Artichokes a ritalienne. Ingredients, Two pounds of Articliokes. One giU of Consomme. Two ounces of Butter. Pepper and Salt.HIGH-CLASS COOKEBl. 1S6 Nutmeg. Lemon-juice. Italian Sauce (see Entrees). Wash and peel the artichokes, shaping them like small pears, of even sizes. Butter a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and arrange the arti- chokes in circles in it, sprinkle over a little pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon-juice; pour one gill of consomme to them, put the lid on, and simmer gently for half an hour, basting them occasion- ally ; they should colour a djeep yellow. Just before serving, roll them in the consomme. Serve with Italian sauce round them. Brussels Sprouts. Ingredients, Two pounds of Brussels Sprouts. Two ounces of Butter. Salt and Pepper. Quarter of a saltspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. Wash the sprouts well in salt and water, and trim them; put them into a saucepanful of boiling water with some salt and the carbonate of soda. Let them boil fast with the lid off till quite tender —from ten to twenty minutes, according to age. When done, strain them off, dry them in a cloth, put them into a stewpan with the butter, pepper, and salt, toss them in this till thoroughly hot— they must not fry; then serve.157 VEGETABLES ANP SALADS. Champignons grilles. Lay some toast cut in neat pieces in your dish. Trim the mushrooms and place them in a deep tin, add a tablespoonful of stock and one ounce of butter, salt and pepper ; baste the mushrooms; cover them over and cook in the oven till tender; put the mushrooms on the croutes and serve hot. French Beans a la Mattre d'Hotel, Ingredients, Two pounds of French Beans, Two ounces of Butter. Pepper and Salt. Nutmeg. A tablespoonful of chopped Parsley parboiled. The juice of half a Lemon. Pick and string the beans, cutting each bean into three or four strips. Wash them well in cold water, drain them, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water, boil fast till tender. Put them into cold water for a few minutes, dry them in a clean cloth, and put them into a stewpan with the butter, parsley, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon- juice. When quite hot, serve them with croutons round.158 HIOH-OLASS COOKEBY. Haricots panaches a la Mattre d'Hdtel. Ingredients, Half a pint of Haricot Beans. „ French „ Two ounces of Butter. Croiitons of fried Bread. Boil the haricots and French beans as usual until tender. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and saute both the beans until hot and well mixed. Serve piled lightly on a dish and garnish with the croutons. Plain Salad. Ingredients. Lettuces, Watercress, Mustard and Cress, Endive, Cucumber, Celery, a little of each. Beetroot. j One or two Spring Onions. Two tablespoonfuls of the best Salad Oil. One tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar, Pepper and Salt. Half a teaspoonful of made Mustard. One teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. (Cold boiled vegetables can be used as well, such as Potato, Carrot, Turnip, Cauliflower, etc.) Wash all the ingredients carefully to remove dirt and grit. Dry them well in a clean cloth; break up the leaves into small pieces and put them into the salad-bowl; do not use a knife to the green vegetables. Put the salt^ sugar, andVEaETABLES AND SALADS. 159 mustard into a tablespoon; fill it with tarragon vinegar, and stir to melt the salt and sugar and mix the mustard. Pour this over the salad, shake over some pepper, and add the oil last, mixing all well together. Eemember the old saying in making a salad, " The vinegar should be measured out by a miser, the oil by a spendthrift, and a maniac should mix it." Pommes de Terre k TAnna. Ingredients. Two pounds of Potatoes. Two ounces of grated Cheese. One and a half ounce of Butter. Salt and Pepper. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Butter a plated dish, peel the potatoes and cut them into rather thin slices. Lay these slices in close even rows on the dish and sprinkle over them the cheese, salt, pepper and parsley; put a piece of butter here and there on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter. Pommes de Terre Souffles. Peel the potatoes and cut them in slices of equal thickness. You will require two pans of fat: the first pan must be only moderately hot, aud the slices of potato must cook through in160 Hian-CLASS COOKERY. this; then finish them off in the second pan of fat, which must be very hot indeed. The best kind of potatoes for this are flukes. Saute Potatoes. Ingredients, Two pounds of New Potatoes. Two ounces of Butter. Salt. Wash the potatoes in cold water, scrape them and cut them into shapes like the quarters of an orange. Put them into a saucepan of cold water, and just let them boil up; then strain them and wipe them dry on a clean cloth. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and toss the potatoes in it for about twenty minutes over a quick fire; they should brown on all sides alike. Strain off the butter, sprinkle some salt over the potatoes, and serve. Potato Scollops. Ingredients. Two pounds of cold Potatoes. Half a pint of Milk. Three ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Parmesan Cheese. Pepper and Salt. Mash the potatoes quite soft with the milk and the butter melted; add two ounces of cheese,161 VEaBTABLES AND SALADS. pepper and salt to taste. Fill some patty-pans with this mixture, and brown them in the oven. While hot, glaze each over with melted butter and the rest of the cheese; serve very hot in the patty- pans. Potato Croquettes. Ingredients. Two pounds of Potatoes, One ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of Milk.* Three Eggs. A teaspoonful of chopped Parsley, Bread-crumbs. Pepper and Salt. Eub two pounds of cold potatoes, or potatoes cooked on purpose, through a sieve on to a plate; put the milk and butter into a stewpan, and when hot, stir in the sifted potatoes. Take the stew- pan off the fire and break the yolks of two eggs into the potatoes, stir in the chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, and cook it again to bind the mixture. When quite cold, shape this mixture into balls or croquettes, egg and bread-crumb, and fry in boiling fat. Serve with fried parsley. Potato Chips. Wash and peel the potatoes, taking out the eyes and specks, peel them very thinly in ribbons, twist * It the potatoes are inoist iea^ye out the milk.162 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. them into fancy shapes, j^ut them into a frying- basket, and fry in boiling fat for about six minutes. You can cut the potatoes into thin slices about one-eighth of an inch in thickness if you prefer it. Salade a la Russe. Ingredients. About a pint of Jardiniere of Vegetables. Six Anchovies, fiUetted. A few slices of Smoked Salmon. Two tablespoonfuls of Eussian Caviare. About a quart of Aspic Jelly. Twelve picked Prawns, or Crayfish. One gill of firm Mayonnaise Sauce. A few Mixed Pickles. Some cooked Chicken or Partridge Fillets. A handful of Cooked Green Peas. Twelve turned Olives. Oil, Vinegar, and Seasoning. Capers, Parsley, and Gherkins. A teaspoonful of Chopped Tarragon and Chervil. Cut some young carrots and turnips with a small round or oval vegetable scoop, blanch and cook them separately in salted water; cut some Trench beans into diamond shapes, blanch and cook; boil some asparagus tips and peas. When all are well drained and cold, mix with a little oil, vinegar, and mayonnaise sauce; season with cayenne pepper and salt. Cut the anchovies, some of the salmon and the cooked meat into small dice, with a few capers, a dessertspoonful of chopped gherkins, and a tablespoonful of caviare;VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 163 add this to the mixture; sprinkle with a little chopped parsley and the chopped savoury herbs; stir in a little aspic jelly to bind them. Prepare a border of aspic, garnished with olives, capers, prawns, pickles, &c.; put a little of the above mixture in the centre of this, fill up with aspic, and put to cool. Mask a medium-sized bomb mould with aspic, garnish with fancifully-cut slices of smoked salmon, gherkins, olives, caviare, pickles, prawns, &c.; fill up the centre of same with the mixture, previously mixed with a little more aspic, so as to make it set well. Put it on the ice, and, when wanted, turn out the border first, place the bomb shape in the centre, garnish to taste, and serve very cold. When filling the bomb mould it should be fixed in some broken ice, to make it stand well. The mixture should be put in in layers, with aspic between each one until the salad comes to a point when turned out, Salade de Tomate a la Creme. Blanch the tomatoes for a few seconds, then peel and cut them in quarters. Serve with mayonnaise mixed with a little thick cream, poured over. Sprinkle with chopped tarragon. M 2HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 164 Seakale, Tie the seakale up in small bundles, put it into boiling water with some salt, and boil it for twenty- minutes, till quite tender. Untie the bundles, dish it up on a slice of toast, and hand, separately, melted butter with a few drops of lemon-juice in it. Spinach. Ingredients. Two pounds of Spinacli. Two ounces of Butter. Half a gin of Cream. Pepper and Salt. Pick all the stalks off the spinach, wash it well in several waters, and put it into a stewpan with the drops of water that hang to the leaves; let it boil till thoroughly tender, then rub it through a wire sieve. Put it back in the stewpan with two ounces of butter, half a gill of cream, and a little pepper and salt; mix well till it is thoroughly hot, then serve with croutons round it. Stewed Celery. Take about six sticks of nice white celery. Cut^ the tops off, leaving it five or six inches in length, Stir in some good second stock till165 VE(5^ETABLES AND SALlDS. quite tender; take out the celery and thicken the stock into a nice brown sauce; season with pepper and salt, and pour it over the celery and serve quite hot. Tomates a la Frangaise. Choose some small round tomatoes, skin them and take out the core; fill in the middle with minced anchovies and mayonnaise; place a sprig of tarragon on the top, and dip each tomato in aspic two or three times till quite coated. Put a round piece of aspic on the top like a lid. Tomates en Feuilletage. Ingredients, Four ounces of Puff Pastry. Three sliced Tomatoes. One teaspoonful of good Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. One chopped Shalot. One smaU Onion. Stir these sauces carefully together in one gill of salad oil as for mayonnaise; lay in it the slices of tomatoes. Set them on the ice till cool or cold. EoU out some puff pastry, spread the tomatoes over it, dust one tablespoonful of grated cheese over that. EoU out a piece of pastry and lay on the top, press it together, cut it out and bake.166 HiaH-CLASS COOKERir. Young Carrots. Ingredients, One bunch of Spring Carrots. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Half a pint of Stock. A tablespoonful of chopped and parboiled Parsley. Wash and scrape the carrots, boil them in water with a little salt for about ten minutes, put them into cold water, and dry them in a cloth. Now put them into a saucepan with the stock, butter, and sugar, and boil gently for half an hour; then boil them fast till the stock is reduced to glaze, sprinkle in the chopped parsley, and serve, with the glaze on them.( 167 ) SAVOUEIES. Anchovy Toast. Ingredients. Six Anchovies. Two Eggs. Two ounces of Butter. Croutes of Bread. Cayenne. Wash and bone the anchovies, pound them in a mortar with the hard-boiled yolks of eggs, butter and cayenne. Eub this through a hair-sieve. Cut some rounds of bread with a cutter and fry them in boiling fat, spread them with the anchovy butter and sprinkle over them the whites of eggs chopped very finely. Serve either hot or cold. Anchovy Sandwiches. Toast some bread, and butter it. Have ready some filleted anchovies, baste them over with a spoonful of salad oil, pepper and lemon juice; lay these fillets between two pieces of toast quite evenly, press them together and cut in neat squares. Dish up quickly while the toast is hot.168 HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. Angels on Horseback. Ingredients, Twelve Oysters. Twelve round Croiitoiis. Twelve pieces of very thin Bacon, 2 inches long, 1^ inch wide. Beard and trim each oyster, put one on each piece of bacon, sprinkle over the oyster a little cayenne and two or three drops of lemon-juice; then roll it up in the bacon. Lay each roll of bacon and oyster on a crouton, put them into a brisk oven just to cook the bacon, serve very hot, dished up on watercress. Aspic Jelly. Ingredients. One quart of good Stock. One ounce of French Gelatine. Half a gill of Tarragon Vinegar. Half a gill of Sherry. The Whites of two Eggs. Put the stock, gelatine, and whites of eggs into a stewpan, and stir until nearly boiling, then add the vinegar, let it boil up, stand it by the side of the fire for fifteen minutes, and then strain it.169 SAVOURIES. Birds' Nests. Ingredients, Six Eggs (Plovers' are the best). Half a pound of Sausages, or Quenelle Meat. Egg and Bread-crumbs. Boil six eggs quite hard, take them out of the shell carefully, and when quite cold mask them all over with quenelle or sausage meat, egg and bread- crumb them and fry them a nice brown. Take them out of the fat, cut them in half with a sharp knife, stand them up on the narrow end, dish them up with tomato sauce round. Canapes k la Fife. Croutes of fried bread. Lay upon each croute two fillets of anchovy, season with pepper and salt, and drop over each fillet a little whipped cream. Dish up on a napkin. Canapes aux Olives. Have some croutes of bread fried in rounds and spread with foie-gras; the olives stoned and stuffed with foie-gras, one olive on each croute, with a little spray of tarragon or chervil on each olive.HiaH-CLASS COOKEKY. 170 Canapes de Laitance. Ingredients, Two Bloaters with soft roes. One ounce of Butter. Fried Croutons of Bread. One Egg. Salt and Cayenne. Take the roes out of the bloaters and put them on one side; pound the flesh of the fish in a mortar with the butter, egg, and seasoning, and pass through a wire sieve. Put a little heap of this mixture on each crouton, with a piece of the roes on the top; bake for ten minutes in a moderate oven and serve very hot. Cassolettes k TAIbany. Cut some crolites of bread three inches long and one inch wide, cut out the middle and fry the croutes a nice brown. Have two ounces of anchovy or bloater paste; cut in pieces three soft roes of bloaters, six oysters cut in four. Saute these all together in one ounce of butter, two drops of lemon juice and cayenne; then fill in the cassolettes. Prepare some buttered egg mixture not too much cooked, and pour a tea- spoonful over each cassolette. Serve hot.171 SAVOUElElS. Cassolettes of Potato. Take the same mixture as potato croquettes (see p. 161), make it up into balls, egg and bread-crumb them, shape them into cases, cutting a lid with a pastry cutter. Fry them in very hot fat; lift off the lid, take out the soft part of the potato, fill in with chicken, oyster, game, anything of that kind which you like, put the little lids on again, and serve with fried parsley. Cassolettes of Rice. Ingredients, Half a pound of Eice. One pint of White Stock. One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Pepper and Salt. Well wash the rice and boil it in the stock until quite tender ; then pack it down in a saute- pan and press it till quite cold. Now cut out patty cases of the rice with a pastry cutter, making a lid with a smaller cutter. Egg and bread-crumb these cassolettes, fry them a nice brown in very hot fat. Lift the lid and fill the cases with any savoury mixture you like, replace the lid, and serve with fried parsley.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 172 Choufleur au Gratin. I7igredients, A nice Cauliflower. Two ounces of grated Parmesan Cheese. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. Odo gill of cold Water. One tablespoonful of Cream. Cayenne Pepper. Salt. Take a moderate-sized cauliflower, close and white, cut the stalk quite close, and cut away the outer withered leaves. Put it head down into a large saucepan, with plenty of fast-boiling water, slightly salted, and let it boil until tender; it will take from fifteen to twenty minutes. If it turns over in the water, as it is apt to do, it must be turned back again with a fork, for the flowers keep whiter well under the water. Care must be taken to remove any scum that rises. When the centre of the flower yields to pressure, it is done. Take it up carefully with a slice, and drain it over a sieve. But while it was boiling, the sauce should have been made. Two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, one ounce of butter, half an ounce of flour, one gill of cold water, a tablespoonful of cream, and as much cayenne pepper as would cover the flat surface of a split pea. Put the butter and flour into a small stewpan, and mix them thoroughly, off the fire, with the back of a wooden spoon; add a gill ofSAVOTJBIES. 173 cold water, and stir the sauce over the fire till it is thick and quite smooth, then add the cream, the cayenne, and a pinch of salt. When the cauliflower is done enough, take it up, place it on the dish in which it is to be served, and squeeze it gently together in a clean cloth, held with both hands. Stir half the cheese into the sauce, and then pour the sauce gently all over the flower; sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over the top, and brown it as macaroni is browned. Serve it very hot. Cheese Aigrettes, Ingredients, Half a pint of cold Water. One ounce of Butter. Four ounces of Vienna Flour, sifted. Three ounces of Parmesan Cheese. Two whole Eggs and one Yolk. Cayenne and Salt to taste. Dry the flour in the oven and rub it through a sieve ; put the water and butter on to boil; when boiling add the flour; stir vigorously all the time on the fire until the panada leaves the sides of the pan quite clean. Eemove from the fire, and when slightly cooled add the eggs, one by one, the seasoning, and lastly the cheese; put on a plate to cool. Take a small piece of the mixture in a teaspoon, drop it into hot but not (juite174 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. boiling fat, and fry a nice brown. Serve on a napkin, with grated Parmesan sprinkled over them. Cheese d'Artois. Ingredients. Yolks of two Eggs. White of one Egg. Two ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Parmesan Cheese, grated. Salt and Pepper. Three ounces of Puff-paste. Beat the eggs in a basin for a few minutes, melt the butter and stir it and the cheese to the eggs, and a little pepper and salt. EoU the paste out thinly, and cut it in half; spread the cheese mixture over one half of the paste and lay the other half over it. Cut this out in rounds with a cutter; brush over with egg, and bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Cheese Souffle. Ingredients. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. One teaspoonful of Mignonette Pepper, Salt, Pepper, and Cayenne. One gin of Milk. Three Eggs. Three ounces of Parmesan Cheese, grated.175 SAVOURIES. Fry the mignonette pepper in the butter for two or three minutes; then strain the butter into a stewpan; add the flour, a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a little cayenne, also the milk, and stir over the fire till it thickens. When a little cool, add, one at a time, two yolks of eggs; beat this all well together and add the cheese; whip the three whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in lightly to the cheese mixture. Pour into a pint souffle-tin, previously buttered and lined outside with buttered paper coming two inches above the tin, and bake in a quick oven from twenty to thirty minutes. To serve, take off the paper and fold a clean napkin round the tin; but send it to table as quickly as possible, as it will fall as soon as it leaves the oven. Cheese Tartlets. Ingredients to make fourteen. One gill of White Sauce. Two ounces of Parmesan Cheese. Two Eggs. Cayenne and Salt. Put the yolks of the eggs, the grated cheese, cayenne, and salt into the white sauce, and mix all well together; whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in also very lightly. Line fourteen patty-pans with rough puff-pastry, fill in with the cheese mixture, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. Do not bang the oven- door.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY, 176 Choux Marin au Parmesan^ Ingredients. One basket of Seakale. Three ounces of Parmesan, Two ounces of Butter. Seasoning. Wash the kale, cut it across and boil in salted water until tender. Then drain and place it on a greased dish in layers with grated cheese and seasoning between each. Sprinkle cheese over the top, pour some butter melted over all, and bake for about ten minutes or until slightly browned. Cold Cheese Souffle. Ingredients, One and a half ounces of Gruyere Cheese. One and a half ounces of Parmesan. Half a pint of Cream. One giU of Aspic Jelly. Cayenne and Mustard. Grate the Gruyere and Parmesan, whip the cream and stir in the cheese, season to taste with salt, cayenne, and made mustard, whisk the jelly and mix it in lightly; serve in Eame- quin cases with a layer of aspic and a little grated cheese on the top.177 gAVOXtBIES. Cotelettes au Fromage. Ingredients. Quarter pound of grated Cheddar Cheese. Two ounces of Butter. Two Eggs. Mustard and Cayenne. Pound all together, make up in the shape of a cutlet and fry in hot fat. Serve with toast in strips. Garnish with tarragon. Creme au Parmesan en Caisses. Make a thick custard^ season with pepper, salt, and cayenne. To one pint of custard add about three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and bake in cases. Croustades. Ingredients, Half a pound of Puff-paste. Quarter cf a pound of QueneUe Meat. Quarter of a pound of Chicken Mixture, oi? Quarter of a pound of Oyster Mixture. Line some small plain moulds with puff-paste, fill them with raw rice to keep the paste in position, bake them a light brown, turn out the rice and the cases out of the mould and spread the inside of the cases with a thin layer of quenelle meat, N178 HIOH-CLASS COOKER'S?. fill the centre with chicken or oyster mixture, bake again a few minutes to cook the quenelle meat. Serve very hot on a folded serviette. Croutes a rAlsacienne. Ingredients, One tablespoonful of Cream. Twelve Oysters. One Tomato. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Flour. One gill of Stock. One teaspoonful of chopped Shalots and Mushrooms. Pepper and Salt. A little Cayenne. A few drops of Lemon-juice. Some Croutes of Bread (about 6 or 8); or, Kounds of Pastry (lightly browned). Take the oysters, just cook them in their liquor, then strain them, take off the beards and cut each oyster into four pieces; put the butter and flour into a stewpan, add the chopped shalots and mushrooms, and when these are well cooked stir in the tomato previously rubbed through a sieve, add the stock and oyster liquor, pepper, salt, cayenne and lemon juice, a tablespoonful of cream and then the pieces of oyster. Place a little of this mixture on each croute, and lay a fillet of anchovy across the top.179 SAVOUKIES. Croutes a la Bernadotte. Ingredients. Three ounces of Anchovy Paste. One tablespoonful of good Sauce. One and a half Yolks of Eggs. One ounce of Butter. Six Capers. Some round Crotites (fried). Pound the paste and pass through a sieve, spread this upon the croutes flat and smooth; cook the butter and egg lightly, season with salt and pepper, and pour a teaspoonful over each croute. Serve hot. Croutes au Fromage. Ingredients, Four ounces of grated Cheese (mixed). Two tablespoonfuls of Cream. One ounce of warm Butter. Salt. Cayenne. Mix these all together^ aiid put one tablespoon-* ful between two croutes of fried bread. Croutes de Merluche Fume. Ingredients, Hsilf a pound of dried Hadddck. Two ounces of Butter. N 2180 HIGH-OLASS COOKERl^. One Egg, hard-bailed. Two Gherkins. Pepper and Salt. Coral. Chopped Parsley. CroMes of Bread. Mince up the fish and the gherkins, put them into a stewpan with the butter, pepper and salt, mix well together. When quite hot put a little heap of this mixture on the croutes ; sprinkle the tops of some with very finely chopped parsley and others with coral rubbed through a sieve, the yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve and the white of egg chopped finely; decorate with these three colours, green, yellow, and coral alternately. Croutes de Fromage Glacees. Ingredients, Two ounces of grated Parmesan. Two ounces of Gruyere. Half a pint of whipped Cream. A gill and a half of whipped AspiCi Cayenne, Salt, and Pepper. Mix all these ingredients well together in a basin. Freeze this mixture in a mould or ice-box for about one hour, turn out, cut into small sqtiare pieces, and serve on croutons of fried bread.181 SAVOUniES. Homard a la Creme- Ingredients, One Lobster, One gill of White Sauce. One tablespoonful of Mayonnaise Sauce, Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg. One gill of Aspic Jelly. Byowned Bread-crumbs, Mince half a pound of the meat of the lobster finely, put it into a basin with the white sauce, Mayonnaise, aspic jelly, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Mix well, steam until quite hot, serve in Eamequin cases with browned bread-crumbs sprinkle^ over it. Huttres a la St. JameSp Ingredients. Twelve Oysters. Half a pound of Puff Paste. " One gill of Becbamel Sauce. One ounce of grated Parmesan Clieese, Cayenne. Roll the paste out very thin, and cut it out with a round cutter the size of a five-shilling piece; take the beards off the oysters, put one oyster on each piece of paste, cover it over with a spoonful of Bechamel sauce; sprinkle with a little grated cheese and cayenne. Bake in a quick oven, and serve with fried parsley in the centre.182 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Macaroni h. rAmericaine. Ingredients, Quarter pound of Macaroni. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Tomato Puree. Pepper, Salt, and a little Sugar to taste. Boil the macaroni in water with a little salt till quite tender, then strain, and wash it in cold water and cut it in small pieces. Melt the butter, add the flour and half a pint of puree of tomato, add seasoning, let it boil well, season to taste; then stir in the macaroni and make it hot. Dish it up on a hot dish, serve some croutons of fried bread, and sprinkle a few brown bread-crumbs on top. Mushrooms Farcis. Ingredients. Mushrooms. One Shalot. One ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. A tablespoonful of Bread-crumbs, Pepper and Salt. A little Brown Sauce. Take some mushrooms, not too large and as much of a size as possible, peel and trim them, chop up the trimmings with the shalot and parsley, saute them in the butter, add a littleSAVOUBIES, 183 brown sauce, the bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Stuff the mushrooms with this mixture, put them in the oven for about ten minutes. Place each mushroom on a croiite of bread its own size, and serve very hot. QEufs a TAurore, Ingredients. Five Eggs, hard-boiled. Mix half a pint of good White Sauce and Tomato Sance. Yolk of one Egg, raw. One tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. Salt and Cayenne. Fried croutons of Bread. Two ounces of grated Parmesan. Cut the whites of the eggs into strips, and rub the yolks through a wire sieve. Eeduce the vinegar in a stewpan; add the sauce, then the raw yolk of egg, and cook. Season, add the shredded whites, and half the cheese to the sauce, and warm them up. Turn out on to a dish; sprinkle the yolk of egg and the rest of the cheese on the top and garnish with the fried croutons. OEufs a la Bonne Femme. Ingredients. Four Eggs, hard-boiled. One ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of chopped Tarragon. Beetroot cut into fancy shapes. Small Salad.HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. 184 Cut the eggs in halves and remove the yolks; pound these with the butter and tarragon. Fill the whites with the mixture; garnish with the pieces of beetroot, and arrange on a dish with the small salad round. CEufs a Madame, Ingredients, Fresh Eggs, as required. Chopped Parsley. CroMons of Bread. Anchovy or Bloater Paste. Butter. Take some small fireproof china fondu cases, butter them well inside with fresh butter, and sprinkle them with very finely chopped parsley. Break an egg carefully into each cup, stand them up to the middle of the cups in boiling water and cook for ten minutes till quite hard. Cut some rounds of bread the size of the cups, fry these a nice brown in boiling fat, spread these croutons with anchovy or bloater paste, worked up with some butter. Turn the eggs out on to the croutons, serve very hot. CEufs a la Suisse. Ingredients, Two ounces of fresh Butter. Eight Eggs.185 SAVOUEIES. Eight thin slices of Gruyere Cheese. Two ounces of grated Gruyere Cheese. Nutmeg. Mignonette Pepper. Salt. One gill of double Cream. A little chopped Parsley. Spread the butter on the bottom of a dish and lay the slices of cheese on it; break the eggs upon the cheese, being careful not to disturb the yolks. Sprinkle some grated nutmeg, mignonette pepper and salt over them ; mix the chopped parsley, the cream whipped, and the grated cheese together, and pour over them; bake in a quick oven about ten minutes. Hand very thin dry toast with the eggs. CEufs Farcis a la Russe. Ingredients. Six hard-boiled Eggs. Caviare. Tomatoes. Oil. Vinegar. Cut the eggs in half, and take out some of the yolk from the centre of each half; fill this space in with caviare, and cover over with the yolk rubbed through a sieve. Serve on slices of tomato, with a little salad oil, vinegar, and pepper and salt over them.HIGH-CLASS COOKEKY. 186 CEufs Farcis a la Provengale. Ingredients, Four Eggs, hard-boiled. Three Anchovies, boned. One teaspoonful of Essence of Anchovy. Watercress. Two ounces of Butter. Lettuce. Cayenne and Salt. Cut the eggs carefully in half, and remove the yolk without breaking the white. Pound the yolks of eggs, the anchovies, watercress, butter, anchovy-essence, cayenne, and salt; when well pounded rub through a hair-sieve. Fill in the white of egg cases neatly with this mixture, putting small handles of parsley-stalks across the tops. Dish up on shredded lettuce, and the remainder of the mixture in the centre with a little Mayonnaise sauce. Oysters a la St. Patrick. Ingredients, Croutons of Bread. Oysters. Two ounces of Butter. Soft roes of Bloaters. Salt. Lemon-juice and Cayenne. Take the beards off the oysters and saute them with the soft roes of bloaters in the butter, sprinkleSAVOURIES. 187 over a little salt and cayenne. Have some round croutons fried a nice brown, place a nice piece of roe on each crouton and an oyster on the top. Squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice on each and serve very hot. Ravioli ^ Tltalienne. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of short Crust. Quarter of a pound of cooked Fowl. Salt, Cayenne, Nutmeg. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. One ounce of Parmesan Clieese. Pound the fowl well and season thoroughly. EoU the paste out thinly, lay the pounded fowl on in little heaps, fold the paste over and cut out like small croquettes. Let these stand for half an hour to dry thoroughly. Then drop them into boil- ing water and cook for about ten minutes. Drain and serve with the cheese and sauce over. Sardines a la Pietmontaise. Fry some bread in boiling fat, and having taken the scales off some sardines, making them hot in the oven, put them on the fried bread, and pour over them the following sauce, made with— Yolks of four Eggs, well whipped. Half an ounce of Butter.188 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. One teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Malt Vinegar. A little made Mustard. Salt. Stir these well together over the fire till the sauce thickens; it must not boil. Savoury Cream, Ingredients, A small Lobster. Half a pint of Cream. One gill of Aspic Jelly. One tablespoonful of Mayonnaise. Half an ounce of French Gelatine. One gill of Tomato-juice. Tarragon and Chervil. Decorate a border mould with tarragon and chervil leaves and some nice pieces of lobster. Melt the gelatine in the tomato juice, whip the cream and the aspic jelly, mix these together, stir in the Mayonnaise and the melted gelatine, also some small pieces of lobster, fill the mould care- fully and set. When cold, turn out and fill the centre with small salad. Scotch Eggs. Ingredients. Three Eggs, hard-boiled. Half a pound of Quenelle or Sausage Meat. Egg and Bread-crumbs. Tomato Sauce.189 SAVOUBIES. Eemove the shells from the eggs and cover them thinly with the quenelle or sausage meat. Then egg and crumb carefully and fry in hot fat. Cut each egg carefully in half; arrange the cut side upwards on a dish, and serve tomato sauce round. Smoked Salmon. Ingredients. Smoked Salmon. Two tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. One tablespoonful of Lemon*juice. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Mix the oil, lemon-juice and chopped parsley together; cut the salmon into slices about the eighth of an inch thick, and lay them for about ten minutes in the oil mixture; put them on a greased tin, cover over with buttered paper, and put them in the oven for about five minutes just to get hot through. Serve plain, or, with a little maitre d'hotel butter spread over each slice of salmon. Souffle de Merluche Fum^a Ingredients, A dried Haddock. One ounce of Butter. Three Eggs. Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg. One gill of Cream.190 HIGH-CLASS OOOKEHf. Scald and bake the haddock, take half a pound of the meat free from skin and bones, pound it in a mortar with one ounce of butter, rub this through a hair-sieve, then put it into a basin, add the yolks of eggs one by one and mix well, stir in the cream whipped, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir in very lightly. Pour this mixture into a Eamequin case and bake about ten minutes. Serve very hot. Timbales of Haddock k la G^noise. Ingredients. Half a pound of Haddock (Dried Haddock). One gill of white Sauce. Half an ounce of Gelatine. One gill of whipped Cream. Salt, Cayenne, and Lemon-juice. Half a pint of Aspic Jelly for decoration. Cook the haddock in the oven on a greased baking-sheet covered with a greased paper, then take the fish off the bone and chop it very small. Melt the gelatine, and stir it into the cream and the white sauce, stir in the fish, add salt, cayenne, lemon-juice, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Decorate the bottoms of the timbale moulds with coral, and hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve, set in a little jelly, and when set, put in some of the haddock mixture, fill up carefully191 SAVOtiRIES. with more liquid aspic jelly and set. When set, turn out, and serve with chopped jelly round. Tomates Farcies au Gratin. Ingredients. Six Tomatoes (aU of one size). Six Mushrooms (chopped fine). Two Shalots „ One Onion „ Two ounces of lean Ham „ (cooked). One teaspoonful of Parsley „ One ounce of Butter. A little Nutmeg. One tablespoonful of Brown Sauce. Browned Bread-crumbs. One teaspoonful of Parmesan Cheese. Pepper and Salt, One Tablespoonful of Bread Crumbs. Cut the centre from the tomatoes, and, without breaking them, squeeze the juice or water out; season each one with a little pepper and salt. Put all the chopped ingredients into a saute-pan, and stir over the fire, with the butter, until they are cooked, but not burnt; then add the brown sauce, the bread crumbs, the nutmeg, and a little season- ing. Fill each tomato with the mixture, and sprinkle over each a little browned crumbs, in which has been mixed the Parmesan cheese. About ten minutes in a moderate oven will suffice to cook them; they should be quite tender, but not broken.192 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Cassolettes de Saumon. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Pastry. Quarter of a pound of Kippered Salmon. Two tablespoonfuls of Chutney. French and English Mustard. Half a pint of Aspic Jelly. EoU the paste thinly and line six oval tin dariole moulds. Fill these with raw rice, and bake. When done, remove the rice and let the pastry cases get cold. Cut the salmon into six thin slices. On each slice put a little chutney, some French and English mustard. Then roll up the slices of salmon, wrap each in greased paper, and bake about ten minutes. Eemove the papers and let the fish get cold. Place a roll of salmon in each pastry case. Melt the aspic jelly, and pour suf&cient over the fish to cover it. When set, it is ready to serve.( 193 ) PASTRY. Cheese Pastry. Ingredients, Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Parmesan Cheese. One ounce of Cheddar Cheese. Yolk of one Egg. Salt and Cayenne. One dessertspoonful of Water. Put the flour on a paste-board, sprinkle in a little salt and cayenne, and rub in the cheese, grated, and the butter; mix all these together with the yolk of an egg and the water into a smooth stiff paste. EoU this out into a strip one eighth of an inch thick and five inches long; cut this into strips of equal sizes, also some rings. Grease a baking sheet, put the straws and rings on it, and bake in a hot oven ten minutes till they are a pale brown. For serving, stand the straws through the rings like a bundle of sticks. 0194 Hian^OLASS OOOKERt* Flaky Crust. Ingredients, Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Half a pound of Butter. Salt. Put the flour and a little salt into a basin and inix to a stiff paste with about a gill of cold water. Put this on a paste-board and roll it out to a thin sheet. Divide the butter into three equal portions ; take one portion and spread it over the paste with a knife, sprinkle a little flour over it, fold it in three, and roll it out; repeat this twice. When all the butter is rolled in, roll out the paste to the size required for a fruit tart or an open tart, and it is ready for use. Genoese Pastry. Ingredients, Seven Eggs. Eight ounces of Castor Sugar. Six ounces of Butter. Six ounces of Flour, sifted. Put the eggs and sugar into a basin ; stand tile baSin over a stewpan of boiling water, and whip well for twenty minutes. Take a cake-tin and line it with kitchen paper; melt the butter, and grease both cake-tin and paper with some of it; when the eggs and sugar are sufficiently whipped.195 stir into them the flour and the remainder of the melted butter. Turn the mixture into the pre- pared tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Petits Choux. Ingredients. Half a pint of Water. Two ounces of Buttel*. Four ounces of Flour. One Yolk and two whole Eggs. Essence of Vanilla or Orange. A little Salt. Put the water, butter, and salt into a stew- pan, as soon as these begin to boil, draw the stewpan off the fire and add the flour, stir these well together over the fire with a wooden spoon until it becomes a soft paste; now add the flavour- ing and yolk of one egg, beat these well together and add the two whole eggs one at a time. Place this paste on a baking sheet in round balls, bake a very light brown, and serve either plain or filled with whipped cream. PufF Paste. Ingredients. Half a pound of Flour. Half a pound of fresh Butter. Salt. Lemon-juice. 0 2196 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Take a clean cloth, and squeeze all the water out of the butter. Put the flour on a marble slab or a paste-board, in a heap; make a well in the centre, put in a pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and enough water to make a paste of the same consistency as the butter. Eoll this paste out to a quarter of an inch in thickness. Put the butter on half this paste, fold the other half over it, cover it entirely, and press the edges together with your thumb. Let this stand in a cool place for a quarter of an hour, then roll it out and fold it over in three; turn it with the rough edges towards you, roll it again, fold it in three, and put it aside for a quarter of an hour. Eepeat this until the paste has been rolled out seven times ; it is then ready for use either for a vol-au-vent, or patties, or tartlets, or pie-crust. Rough Puff. Ingredients, Eigkt ounces of Flour. Six ounces of Butter. Salt. Half a teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Put the butter and flour on a paste-board, chop up the butter in the flour, heap it all up on the board, make a well in the centre, put in the lemon-juice, and sprinkle the salt over. Take a full tablespoonful of cold water, and mix it slowly197 PASTKY. and lightly with your fingers into the flour and butter, adding more water if necessary until you get a stiff paste. EoU this out, fold it over in half, turn it with the rough edges towards you, roll it and fold it again; repeat this twice more, so that it is rolled out and folded four times in all. It is now ready for use for a meat pie, apple tart, or tartlets. Short Crust. Ingredients. Eight ounces of riour. Six ounces of Butter. Half a teaspoonful of Baking-powder. One Egg. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Put the flour into a basin and mix in the baking-powder; rub the butter into the flour with your hands; add the yolk of egg and enough cold water to make a stiff paste. Put the paste on a floured board and roll it out to a quarter of an inch in thickness. It is now ready for use for tarts, turnovers, or baked dumplings. Vol-au-Vent de Pommes a la Reine. Ingredients. Two pounds of Apples. Four ounces of Castor Sugar.198 HiaH-OLASS COOKERYo One gill of Water. One tablespoonful of Lemon-juice, The Rind of a Lemon (grated). Put the apples peeled and cored into a stewpan with the sugar, lemon-juice and rind, and the water, and cook all well together, then rub through a hair-sieve. Butter the bottom of a stewpan, grate a little nutmeg in the butter, pour in the apple, and let it cook till it is like marmalade. Pour this mixture into a vol-au-vent case already cooked, and cover over with a meringue top made of the whites of two eggs well whipped, and four ounces of castor sugar stirred in; put this in the oven till the meringue top is a nice light brown. If liked, whipped cream can be used for the top instead of the meringue.( 199 ) OMELETS. ' Qheese Omelet. Ingredients, Three Eggs. Two ounces of grated Parmesan, Mignonette Pepper, Salt. One ounce of Butter. Break the eggs into a basin and whip them till well mixed; then add pepper, salt, and the cheese. Melt one ounce of butter in the omelet pan, and turn in the eggs; stir quickly to prevent the omelet from sticking. When just set, turn it quickly over towards the handle of the pan for a second, and then on to a hot dish. Kidney Omelet. Ingredients. One Sheep's Kidney, Parsley. Three Eggs,200 HiaH-OLASS COOKERY. A piece of Slialot. One ounce and a half of Butter. Salt and Pepper. Skin the kidney and cut up into thin slices, break the eggs into a basin, beat well and season with a pinch of white pepper and salt, and add the chopped parsley. Put half the butter in an omelet-pan, when hot add the chopped shalot, fry a little, add the kidney, and saute for a few seconds. Put the remainder of the butter in another omelet-pan, when hot put in the egg- mixture, and proceed the same as for Savoury Omelet. When set and ready for folding, put the stewed kidney in the centre fold, turn on a dish, and serve with a tablespoonful of hot demi-glace sauce poured round the omelet. Oyster Omelet. [ Ingredients. Three Eggs. Six Oysters. Pepper and Salt. Blanch and beard the oysters and cut each into four. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat the yolks a little, and add the oysters and pepper and salt. Whip the whites to a stiff froth and stir lightly to the yolks. Put the mix- ture into the omelet-pan for two or three minutes over the fire, stirring all the time.OMELETS. 201 Savoury Omelet. Ingredients. Three Eggs. One ounce of Butter. Salt and Pepper, Parsley. Shalot. Break three eggs into a basin and whip them; add pepper and salt to taste. Chop finely a tea- spoonful of parsley and a very small piece of shalot and add that. Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet- or frying-pan. When the butter is quite hot, pour in the eggs; stir quickly with a spoon, and shake the pan to prevent the omelet sticking. Turn it quickly towards the outside of the pan, turn it over for a second, and then place on to a hot dish. Sweet Omelet. Ingredients, Three Eggs. Half an ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of Castor Sugar. One teaspoonful of Orange-Flower Water. Salt. Put the orange-flower water and the sugar into a stewpan, and stir over the fire; let it boil quickly for three minutes; then put it into a basin to cool. When cool, add the yolks of eggs202 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY, and beat to a cream. Put a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs, whip them to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly to the yolks of eggs. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, and pour in the eggs; put this on the fire for two minutes, and then in the oven for three or four minutes. Make some jam, about a dessertspoonful, quite hot; take the omelet out of the oven and put it on a hot dish, spread the jam on the omelet lightly and quickly, fold it over like a sandwich, sprinkle a little castor sugar over it, and serve. Tomato Omelet, Ingredients, One Tomato. Three Eggs. A piece of Shalot. One ounce and a half of Butter. Skin the tomato, cut it up into small pieces, with a piece of shalot chopped up. Take the eggs, beat the yolks and whites together; saute the tomato and shalot in half the quantity of butter, season with pepper and salt and keep hot. Put the remainder of the butter in an omelet-pan, when hot stir in the beaten eggs, previously seasoned, and proceed the same as for Savoury Omelet. When set, put the prepared tomatoes in the centre, fold over, turn out on a dish, and serve with a tablespoonful of tomato sauce round the omelet.203 OMELETS. Omelet Souffle. Ingredients, Six Eggs. Half an ounce of Flour. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Fifteen drops of Essence of Vanilla, Put four yolks of eggs into a basin, add the castor sugar, and beat with a wooden spoon for ten minutes; then stir in the flour and vanilla; whisk the six whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix lightly to the yolks of eggs. Butter a half-^ pint souffie-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes; send to table quickly. If jam is used, it must be put in the centre of the souffle before it is baked.204 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. HOT PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLES. Amber Pudding. Ingredients, Six large Apples, or one pound after peeling. Three ounces of moist Sugar. One Lemon. Two ounces of Butter. Three Eggs. Puif Paste. A few preserved Cherries. Peel, core, and slice the apples; place them in a stewpan with the butter, sugar, and lemon-rind, and let them stew slowly until tender. Then rub them through a hair-sieve. Line the edges of a pie-dish with puff-paste, and decorate it tastefully. Add the yolks of the eggs to the apple, and pour the mixture into the pie-dish. Place it in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Whip the whites very stiff; spread them over the apple, dredge over a little castor sugar; garnish with the cherries. Then place the pudding in a cool oven to set the white of eggs; it will take about ten minutes, and should get a light brown.HOT PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLES. 205 Alexandra Pudding. Ingredients, Five Eggs. Two ounces of Castor Sugar. One gill of Cream. Half a pint of Milk. One teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla, Put five yolks of eggs into a basin, add the sugar, milk, and cream. Whip five whites of eggs slightly, add the vanilla and stir lightly to the yolks of eggs. Take a pint plain mould, butter it inside, and cover the bottom with three rounds of buttered paper. Pour the mixture through a strainer into the mould, and tie a piece of stiff paper over the top. Steam the pudding gently for one hour and a quarter. When cooked, stand the mould in ice. For serving, turn it out carefully, and ornament it with red currant jelly. Brown Bread Pudding. Ingredients. A stale Brown Loaf. One pound of fresh Cherries. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Four Eggs. One Lemon. One gill of Cream. One gill of Milk, Half a teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Two ounces of Loaf Sugar. A gill and a half of Water.HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 206 Put five ounces of brown bread-crumbs into a basin with the sugar, and three-quarters of a pound of cherries, stoned, the vanilla, and grated lemon rind. Boil the milk and pour it over the crumbs and fruit. Whip the cream to a stiff froth and add it to the crumbs ; add the four yolks of eggs one at a time, and the whites of two eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Butter a pint mould and pour in this mixture, cover it over with buttered paper, and steam or bake one hour and a quarter. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve with sauce made with two ounces of loaf sugar, a gill and a half of water, and a quarter of a pound of cherries. Baked Lemon Pudding. Ingredients, Three ounces of Castor Sugar, Three Eggs. Two Lemons. One gill of Cream or Milk. Two ounces of Cake-crumbs. Pufif-pastry. Grate the lemon-rinds and squeeze the juice; mix these with the castor sugar, yolks of eggs, cream, and cake-crumbs. Stir all well together in a basin; whip two whites stiff, and mix them lightly to the other ingredients. Line and deco- rate the edges of a pie-dish with puff-pastry; turn in the pudding, and bake for about twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven207 HOT PtJDDiKaS AND SOUFFLES. Cabinet Pudding. Ingredients, Twelve preserved Cherries. Three pieces of Angelica, Four Sponge Cakes. Six Katafias. One pint of Milk. One ounce of Castor Sugar, Four Hggs. Fifteen drops of Essence of Vanilla. Butter a pint-and-half mould, ornament the bottom with the cherries and angelica, break the sponge cakes and put into the mould, also the ratafias. Put four yolks and two whites of eggs into a basin with the sugar; whip them lightly together, stirring in the milk by degrees, and the vanilla; pour this mixture over the cakes in the mould. Cover the mould with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for about three-quarters of an hour. Turn the pudding out carefully, and serve. Caramel Pudding* Ingredients, For the Caramel Two ounces of Loaf Sugar. Half a gill of Cold Water. For the Pudding :— Four Yolks and two Whites of EggSi One tablespoonful of Castor Sugar. Half a pint of Milk.208 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Put two ounces of loaf sugar and a half gill of cold water into a stewpan, and boil quickly, until light coffee colour, stir well and pour it quickly into a thoroughly dry, plain souffle or timbale mould, and let it coat the mould all over. Make a custard of the four yolks, two whites of egg, the castor sugar and the milk, thus: break the eggs into a l^asin, add the sugar, boil the milk, and when a little cool pour it on to the eggs and sugar, then strain it into the mould you have lined with caramel; steam it very slowly for half an hour. Turn it out on to a dish, and some of the caramel will run off and form a sauce. Can be served hot or cold. Cocoanut Pudding. Ingredients, Half a pint of Milk. Half a pound of grated Cocoanut. Two tablespoonfuls of Cake-crumbs. Two tablespoonfuls of Castor Sugar. Two ounces of Butter. Half a pint of Cream* Six Eggs. Two teaspoonfuls of Vanilla. Cook the cocoanut in the milk- cream the butter and sugar together, beat up the yolks of eggs, and add to the butter and sugar. When the milk is off the boil, stir the eggs, cream, butter, and sugar, the cake-crumbs and vanilla, to it; also add three whites of eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Put this into a pie-dish, and bake for half an hour.HOT PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLES. 209 Whip the other three whites of eggs to a stiff froth with three tablespoonfuls of castor and a little vanilla. Just before the pudding is done, spread this meringue on the top of it, and brown it lightly in the oven. Conservative Pudding. Ingredients. Five ounces of Savoys and Ratafias (mixed). The Yolks of five Eggs and one White. Half a gill of Rum or Brandy. One pint of Milk. One tablespoonful of thick Apricot Jam. Take a souffle tin and well grease it, put the biscuits into it in layers with a little apricot jam between each layer, pour in the rum and let it soak in well, then pour in the milk and eggs, thoroughly mixed together. Cover over the tin with a greased paper, and steam for one hour. Fig Pudding. Ingredients, Half a pound of Bread-crumbs. Half a pound of Beef Suet. Half a pound of Sugar. Half a pound of Figs. Quarter of a pound of Sultanas. Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Citron. Two ounces of Almonds. P210 Hian-CLAss cookery. One ounce of Bitter Almonds. One glass of Brandy. Bind of one Lemon, grated. Half a Nutmeg. Two ounces of Cherries. Two ounces of Angelica. One gill of Oream. Four Eggs. Chop the suet, figs, ahiionds, cherries, and angelica very fine; mix all well, arid add the dry ingredients; mix again, and stir in the eggs, cream, and brandy. Boil for four hours or steam for five. Plum Pudding. Ingredients. Half a pound of Beef Suet. Half a pound of Kaisins. Half a pound of Currants. Half a pound of Sultanas. Quarter of a pound of mixed Peel. Quarter of a pound of Bread-crumbs. Quarter of a pound of Flour. One Lemon. Half a pound of moist Sugar. Four Eggs. One gill of Milk. One wineglassful of Brandy. Two ounces of Almonds. Half a Nutmeg. A little Salt. Chop up the suefc, wash and dry the currants, stone the raisins, clean the sultanas taking off the stalks, cut up the peel, blanch and chop up the almonds. Put the flour into a basin and rub theHOT PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLES. 211 suet into the flour with your hands, sprinkle in a little salt, add the crumbs, currants, raisins, sul- tanas, sugar, and peel, and mix all well together. Grate in half a nutmeg, the rind of the lemon, and add the almonds. Put the eggs into another basin, stir to them the milk and brandy, and mix them with the fruit, &c., taking care to mix all these ingredients very thoroughly together. Turn the pudding into a mould or floured pudding- cloth, put it into boiling water, and let it boil for five or six hours. Pine-apple Souffle. Ingredients. Three ounces of Pine-Apple. Three ounces of Flour, sifted. Three ounces of Sugar. Two ounces of Butter. Half a pint of Milk. Yolks of three Eggs. Whites of four Eggs. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and add the flour and milk; cook well; add the sugar and the pine- apple, previously cut into dice ; add the yolks one by one; whip the whites very stiff; stir in the mixture very lightly; pour into a prepared soufile mould; steam one hour. Sauce. Eeduce one gill of the syrup from the pine-apple add one ounce of loaf sugar, and one glass of p 2212 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. sherry; colour with cochineal; pour round the pudding. Some small pieces of pine-apple may be added to the sauce. Raspberry Pudding. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Butter. Three Eggs. Raspberry Jam, about half a pound. Half a pound of Bread-crumbs. Quarter of a pound of Sugar. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the eggs and breadcrumbs. Butter a shape well, and coat it with brown crumbs. Put a layer of mixture and a layer of jam alternately, till the shape is full. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. Semolina Souffle, Ingredients. One pint of Milk. Three ounces of Semolina. Two ounces of Castor Sugar, Four Eggs. Rind of one Lemon. Put the milk on to boil; sprinkle in the semo- lina and sugar; add the peel of the lemon, cut very thin; stir till it thickens, then take out the lemon-peel. Let it cool a little, and then stir inHOT PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLES. 213 the yolks of three eggs and the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Grease a souffle mould, pour in the mixture, and steam it for twenty minutes. Mince Meat. Ingredients. One pound and a half of Beef Suet cliopped fine* One pound and a half of Eaisins „ „ Two pounds of Currants. Two pounds of Apples, chopped very fine. Quarter of an ounce of mixed Mace and Cinnamon powdered. Four Cloves powdered. One pound and a half of Castor Sugar. A saltspoonful of Salt. The juice of three Lemons and the rinds grated. Half a pound of mixed Peel chopped fine. One gill of Brandy. One gill of Port. Mix all these ingredients well together, and tie down in a jar until required for use. Viennoise Pudding, Ingredients. Five ounces of crumb of Bread. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Two ounces of candied Peel. One ounce of Loaf Sugar. Three ounces of Sultana Eaisins. Kind of one Lemon.214 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Yolks of four Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. One gill of Cream. One wineglassful of Sherry. Cut the bread into dice, shred the candied peel, grate the lemon-rind, and pick the sultanas. Put these all into a basin with the castor sugar. The loaf sugar is to be placed in a saucepan and put on the fire to burn a dark-brown colour. Then add the milk, and let the burnt sugar dissolve in the milk. Pour this to the yolks, previously whisked, and then strain over the bread and other dry ingredients in the basin; add the cream and sherry. Pour the pudding into a well-greased mould, and set it in a saucepan to steam for an hour and a half. Serve with wine sauce. Vanilla Souffle. Ingredients. J'our Eggs. One ounce of Butter, One ounce of Flour. Salt. One giU of Milk. One dessei-tspoonful of Castor Sugai*. Half a teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Butter a pint-and-half soufiie-tin; tie a band of buttered paper round the tin, coming two inches above it. Melt an ounce of butter, add to it an ounce of flour, mix them well together, and add the castor sugar and milk; stir this over theHOT PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLES. 215 fire till it thickens. Then take it off the fire, and add, one at a time, the yolks of three eggs, beating all well together. Put a pinch of salt to the four whites of egg, whip them to a stiff froth, and stir lightly to the mixture; add the vanilla essence, pour it all into the buttered tin, and steam from twenty to thirty minutes. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and pour some wine sauce or custard sauce round it. West-Riding Pudding. Ingredients, Jain. Two Eggs. The weight of the Eggs in Butter, Sugar, and Flour. Half a teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Rind of one Lemon, grated. Pulf-paste. Beat the butter to a cream, and stir into it the flour, sugar, and the eggs beaten up; add the baking-powder and lemon-rind. Line a pie-dish with puff-paste, cover the bottom of the dish with jam, pour in the mixture, and bake for one hour and a quarter.216 HiGH-CLASS COOKERY. CEEAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. Apricot Cream. Ingredients. Half a pint of Apricot Puree. One gill of Syrup. Half a pint of whipped Cream. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. One ounce of French Gelatine. One teaspoouful of Lemon-juice. Take a tin of apricots and strain them from the syrup, pass them through a hair-sieve. Take half a pint of this puree, and mix lightly with half a pint of double cream whipped. Dissolve the gelatine with a gill of the syrup you have strained from the apricots, add the sugar and lemon-juice, and strain into the cream. Decorate a mould according to taste, set the movild in ice, pour in the cream, and set in ice till quite cold, then turn out and serve. Coffee Cream. Ingredients. Two Eggs. One ounce of Gelatine.aiaEAMS, J-ELLiES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 2l7 Three ounces of Loaf Sugar, Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of Cream. Half a gill of strong Coffee, or Essence of Coffee. Make half a pint of custard with the eggs and milk. Dissolve the gelatine and sugar in the coffee; add the custard, and strain; whip the cream, and stir lightly into the custard when cool. Pour into the mould, and set. Gateau de Riz. Ingredients, One quart of Milk. Four ounces of Kice. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Three quarters of an ounce of Gelatine. Half a pint of double Cream. Boil the milk and stir in the rice, and cook very gently till quite tender; turn this into a basin, and when nearly cold dissolve the gelatine with a gill of milk, then add the sugar, and strain into the rice, add the cream half-whipped, and mix very lightly. Decorate a mould with a little jelly and pistachio nut, set it in ice; pour in the rice and set. Serve with a compote of fruit in the centre.218 BiiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Ginger Cream. Ingredients. Yolks of three Eggs. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One gill of Milk. Half a gill of Ginger Syrup. Half a pint of Cream. Two ounces of Ginger. Three-quarters of an ounce of Gelatine. Make a custard of the eggs, milk, and sugar ; when cool, add to this the syrup of ginger, the ginger cut into small pieces, and the gelatine melted, last of all the cream whipped; mix all well together; pour into a mould to set. Italian Cream, Ingredients. Yolks of four Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One ounce of melted Gelatine. One wineglassful of Oura9oa. (Or half a wineglassful of Brandy and half a wineglassful of Sherry.) Make a custard with the eggs and milk; add the sugar, gelatine, and curapoa. When cool, mix in the cream whipped; stir all together, and mould.CREAMS, JELLIES, lOllS, COLD SWEETS. 219 Neapolitan Cream. Ingredients. Yolks of four Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream. One ounce of melted Gelatine. Half a pint of Jelly. One ounce of dried Cherries. Three ounces of Preserved Ginger. Make a custard with the eggs and milk, and let it cool; cut up the ginger very small, cook it for ten minutes in one gill of syrup, and let it also cool. Decorate a mould all over with the jelly and dried cherries. Stir the melted gelatine, the ginger, and the cream, whipped into the custard ; pour all into the decorated mould, and set. Pine Apple Cream. Ingredients, The half of a Pine^apple* Half a pint of double Cream. Three quarters of an ounce of French. Gelatine. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Take the pine-apple and trim it well, cut it in half, cut one half into dice, the other half pound in a mortar and pass through a hair sieve. Whip the cream, and add the puree .of pine- apple, also the dice of pine. Dissolve the gelatineHiaH-CLASS COOEEEY. 220 in a gill of the pine-apple syrup, add the sugar, and, when nearly cold, strain it into the cream pour it into a decorated mould, and set it in ice. Rice Cream. Ingredients, One pint of Milk. Three ounces of Loaf Sugar, Two ounces of ground Eice. Half an ounce of French Gelatine. Half a pint of Double Cream. Boil the milk and sugar together, stir in the ground rice and cook it for about six minutes, then draw it off the fire. Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of milk and stir it to the rice, add the cream whipped, mix all lightly together, pour into a mould decorated according to taste, when set turn it out; and it is ready to serve. Strawberry Cream. Ingredients. One pint of fresh Strawberries. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Three-quarters of an ounce of French Gelatine. Half a pint of Cream. The juice of one Lemon. Take all the stalks off the strawberries, put them on a silk or hair-sieve, sprinkle half an ounceCREAMS, JELLIES, lOES, COLD SWEETS. 221 of sugar over them, and pass them through the sieve. Put the gelatine into a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of cold water, the rest of the sugar, and the juice of the lemon. When the gelatine is melted, strain it into the strawberries, add the cream well whipped, stir all lightly together, pour into a pint mould, and set. Vanilla Cream. Ingredients, Three Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream. One ounce of Gelatine. One tablespoonful of Castor Sugar. Half a teaspoonful of Essence of Yanilla. Make a custard of the milk, three yolks of eggs and one white, melt the gelatine in two table- spoonfuls of .water, and strain it into the custard, mixing it well. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, adding the sugar and vanilla. "When the custard is sufficiently cool, stir the whipped cream lightly into it, and pour it into a mould to set.HIGH-CLASB COOKEEY. 222 Velvet Cream, Ingredients, Three-quarters of an ounce of Gelatine, Two ounces of Castor Sugar. One glass of Sherry. The rind of one Lemon. Half a pint of Double Cream. One gill of Water. Melt the gelatine in one gill of water, then add the sugar, sherry, grated rind of one lemon, and the cream whipped to a stiff froth; pour into a mould to set. Do not add the cream until the melted gelatine is cool. Apple Jelly. Ingredients. One pound of Apples. Half a pint of Cream. One Lemon. Three ounces of Lump Sugar. One ounce of Gelatine. Half a teaspoonful of Cochineal. Three gills of cold Water. Peel, core, and cut up the apple into small pieces, put them into a stewpan with the sugar, half a pint of water, the juice and grated rind of the lemon ; when cooked to a pulp, rub through aCBEAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 223 hair-sieve, and stir in the gelatine melted in a gill of water. Colour part of the apple with the cochineal, and fill a border mould with alternate layers of the coloured and plain apple. When cold, turn out, and serve with half a pint of whipped cream in the centre. Aspic Jelly from Calves' Feet. Ingredients, Two Calves' Feet. Salt. Thirty Peppercorns. Two blades of Mace. One clove of Garlic. Two Shalots. One sprig of Thyme. One small bunch of Parsley. One Onion, stuck with four Cloves. One Leek. Half a head of Celery. Two Carrots. One Turnip. One sprig of Tarragon. One sprig of Chervil. Two Bay-leaves. The rind and juice of one Lemon. The Whites of two Eggs. Half a gill of common Vinegar. One tablespoonful of Chilli Vinegar. Half a gill of Tarragon Vinegar. One gill of Sherry. Two quarts of Water. Take two calves' feet and chop them into eight pieces. Wash them well in cold water, and putHiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 224 them in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover them. Let them boil to blanch them ; then pour the water off, and wash them again in cold water. Wash the stewpan and put the pieces of feet into it, with two quarts of water^ and just bring it to the boil; watch it and skim it occasionally. Add half a teaspoonful of salt and all the other ingredients, except the lemon, the eggs, and the vinegars. Let all boil gently for five hours. Strain it off through a hair-sieve into a basin, and let it stand until perfectly cold: take off the fat, and wipe the top of the stock with a cloth dipped in hot water, to remove every particle of grease. Put the stock into a clean stewpan, with the lemon- peel and juice; also add the whipped whites of two eggs and the shells, the vinegars, and salt to taste. Whisk all on the fire until it boils; then draw the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it stand for half an hour to form a crust. Take a clean soup cloth, and fix it on the stand; pour the contents into a cloth, and let it all run through into a basin. Let it pass through a second time slowly. Scald a mould with boiling water, then rinse it in cold water; garnish the mould with fish or vege- tables, according to taste, pour in the jelly care- fully, and let it stand until cold, when turn out and serve.CBEAMS^ JELLIES, ICES^ COLD SWEETS. 225 Aspic Jelly from French Gelatine. Ingredients for the Pu;pils in the PraGtiee Kitchen, {Four Quarts.) Three quarts of Water. One pint of Sherry. One gill of Malt Vinegar. One gill of Tarragon Vinegar. Half a gill of Chilli Vinegar. Half a gill of Lemon-juice. One Carrot, one Turnip, one Onion. One stick of Celery. A teaspoonful of Salt. A sprig of Tarragon, Chervil and Parsley. The rind of two Lemons. Twenty White Peppercorns. Ten ounces of French Gelatine. Three Whites of Eggs whipped and the shells crushed. Ingredients for the Pupils in the Demonstration Kitchen. {One Quart.) One and a half pints of Water. Quarter of a pint of Sherry. Quarter of a pint of these Vinegars mixed: Tarragon, Malt, and Chilli. Juice of two Lemons. One Carrot, one Turnip, one Onion. One stick of Celery. Half a teaspoonful of Salt. A small bunch of Tarragon. Chervil and Parsley. The rind of one Lemon. Two ounces and a half of French Gelatine. The Whites and. Shells of two Eggs. Ten White Peppercorns. Put all these ingredients into a stewpan to- gether, and whisk over the fire until it boils ; then draw it to the side of the fire for a few minutes, strain it as usual through a clean cloth, scalded and put on a soup stand, and when it is set it is ready for use.* * For all these jellies I have given the Ingredients in two quantities, as the ditferent kitchens require in the School, because the pupils seem to find so much trouble in reducing the quantities in proper proportions. This will, I hope, save trouble to our pupils and to my staff of teachers, and it will not interfere vyith the general public who use the book.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 226 Claret Jelly. Ingredients for three Quarts. Two quarts of Water. One pint and a half of Claret. Half a pint of Lemon-juice. The rind of four Lemons. One inch of Cinnamon and six Cloves. Two tablespoonfuls of Red Currant Jelly. Eight ounces of French GcUi- tine. Three Whites of Eggs whipped and the shells crushed. A few drops of Cochineal. Fourteen ounces of Sugar. Ingredients for one Quart, Three-quarters of a pint of Water, One pint of Claret. Quarter of a pint of Lemon- juice. The rind of one Lemon, Half an inch of Cinnamon and two Cloves. One tablespoonful of Red Cur- rant Jelly. Two and a half ounces of French Gelatine. Two Whites of Eggs whipped and the shells crushed. A few drops of Cochineal. Four ounces of Sugar. Put all these ingredients into a stewpan and whisk over the fire till it boils, then draw it off, let it stand at the side of the fire for about five minutes, strain as usual, add a few drops of cochineal to improve the colour, set as required^ and it is ready for use. Orange Jelly. Ingredients, Half a pint of Orange-juice. Half a pint of Water. Juice of two Lemons. Rind of three Oranges. Three ounces of Loaf Sugar. One ounce of French Gelatine.CBEAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 227 Put the water, sugar, orange-rind, and gelatine into a stewpan, and let them simmer for ten minutes; skim and strain. Add the orange- and lemon-juice, pour into a mould, and set. Punch Jelly. Ingredients for four Quarts. Three quarts of Water. Half a pint of MUk Punch. Half a pint of Rum. Half a pint of Marsala. Three gills of Lemon-juice. Six rinds of Lemon. Eleven ounces of Gelatine. One inch of Cinnamon. Three Whites of Eggs whipped and the shells crushed. Twenty-four ounces of Loaf Sugar. Ingredients for one Quart. One pint of Water. Quarter of a pint of Milk Punch. Quarter of a pint of Rum. Quarter of a pint of Marsala. One gill and a half of Lemon- juice. Two rinds of Lemon. Two and a half ounces of Gelatine. Half an inch of Cinnamon. Two Whites of Eggs whipped and the shells crushed. Six ounces of Loaf Sugar. Put all these ingredients together into a stew- pan, whisk them over the fire till they boil, then draw them off the fire, and let them stand by the side of it for about five minutes ; strain through a clean cloth, scalded and put on a soup-stand, and it is then ready for use. q 3HIG-H-CLASS COOKERY. 228 Wine Jelly from Calves' Feet. Ingredients, Two Calves' Feet. Two Lemons. Two Eggs. Three ounces of Loaf Sugar. Four Cloves. One inch of Cinnamon. One wineglassful of Sherry. Half a wineglassful of Brandy. Chop each foot into four pieces, wash them well in cold water, and blanch them; put the feet in a stewpan with five pints of cold water. Let this boil gently for five hours, skimming it care- fully ; then strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin to set. When this jelly stock is quite cold, dip a clean cloth into hot water and wipe every particle of grease off the stock. Squeeze the juice of the lemons through a strainer into a stewpan, add the lemon-peel, the whites of the eggs, slightly whipped, the egg-shells crushed, the sugar, cinnamon, and cloves. Whisk these all together, add the jelly stock, and whisk well till it boils. As soon as it boils, put the lid on the stewpan and draw to the side of the fire for twenty minutes to form a crust. When the crust is formed, the jelly must be strained through a jelly-bag or clean cloth previously scalded. When strained, add the wine and brandy. Garnish a jelly-mould according to taste, pour in the jelly, and setCMAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 229 Wine Jelly from French Gelatine. Ingredients for the Pupils in Practice Kitchen. (Four Quarts.) Three quarts of Water. One pint and a half of Sherry. One pint of Lemon-juice. Twenty-four ounces of Loaf Sugar. One inch of Cinnamon. Four Cloves. The rind of six Lemons. Eleven ounces of French Gela- tine, Three Whites of Eggs whipped and the shells crushed. Ingredients for the Pupils in the Demonstration Kitchen. {One Quart.) One pint and a quarter of Water. Half a pint of Sherry. Quarter of a pint of Lemon- juice. Six ounces of Loaf Sugar. Half an inch of Cinnamon. Two Cloves. The rind of two Lemons. Two ounces and a half of French Gelatine. Two Whites of Eggs whipped and the shells crushed. Put all these ingredients into a stewpan together and whisk over the fire until it boils, then draw it to the side of the fire and let it stand for about five minutes, strain it as usual through a clean cloth scalded, and put on a soup-stand; when it is set it is ready for use. Biscuits Glacis en Caisses. Prepare as for Iced Souffle, but before mould- ing add four ounces of pounded ratafias and half a pint of whipped cream, and freeze in small paper cases.230 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Creme au Pain Bis Glac6 en Caisses. Ingredients. The Yolks of four Eggs. The White of an Egg. One pint of Milk. Half a pint of Cream. Half a pint of fine Bread-crumbs. Bake the crust of the bread quite brown, then scald it in the milk, which must be boiling. Make a thick custard of the milk and eggs, when cold, add the bread-crumbs and cream, and freeze it in small ramekin cases. Iced Souffle with Maraschino. Ingredients. Half a pint of clarified Syrup. The Yolks of six Eggs. One Egg. One tablespoonful of Maraschino. Break the eggs into a basin and whisk well, then add the syrup and Maraschino. Pour into an egg bowl previously warmed, and whip over hot water until it resembles sponge cake " mix- ture. Put a stiff band of paper round a souffle mould, and pour the mixture in, filling the mould about one inch above the paper, then place the mould in a tin box with a tight-fitting lid, and immerse the box in pounded ice mixed with salt,CREAMS, JELLIES, ICES> OOLD SWEETS. 231 and allow it to remain for about three hours. As the ice melts it must be replaced. When frozen, remove the band of paper, and sift some pounded macaroons on the top, or grated choco- late, to give it the appearance of a baked souffle. Iced souffles may be greatly varied by altering the flavouring, using for that purpose any kind of orange flour water, vanilla, coffee, orange, lemon, &c., or by adding a puree of apricot, strawberry, raspberry or pine-apple, to the mixture before it is frozen. Ice Pudding. Ingredients, One pint and a half of Milk* Yolks of four Eggs. One whole Egg. Quarter of a pound of Loaf Sugar6 Quarter of a pound of dried Fruits* One ounce of Pistachio Nuts. One ounce of candied Citron, chopped fine. Half a glassful of Maraschino. Half a glassful of Brandy. Half a pint of whipped Cream. Make a custard with^the eggs and milk, adding the sugar to the milk. Strain it, and when cold put it in the freezing pot; when half frozen, add the dried fruits cut in pieces, candied peel, pis- tachios, maraschino, &c., and lastly, the whipped cream. When well frozen, pack into your pudding- mould and freeze until wanted.232 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Lemon Water Ice. Ingredients. Half a pound of Loaf Sugar, One pint of Water. Zest of two Lemons. Juice of four Lemons. Whites of two Eggs. Put the water and sugar in a stewpan on the lire to boil ten minutes, reserving about six lumps of sugar from the half pound, with which rub the sest from the two lemons. Strain the juice, which should measure one gill; sometimes it will take more than the quantity to make the measure. When the syrup is cold, add the lemon-juice and freeze. When half frozen, add the whipped whites of two eggs. N.B.—In making ices, the quantities should always be measured. Thus, in water or cream ices, to one pint of syrup add one pint of juice or puree of fruit, with the exception of lemons. The fruit should never be added hot. The cream should never be added without being whipped. Parfait au Oafe, or Mousse. Ingredients. The Yolks of six Eggs. Half an ounce of Castor Sugar. One gill of good Coffee. One gill of whipped Cream.CREAMS, JELLIES, lOES, COLD SWEETS. 233 Whip the sugar and eggs over hot water till hot, then whip on ice till cold, add the cream; pour the mixture into the moulds, put on the lids, and set down in the ice and salt for three or four hours. Pine-apple Water Ice. Ingredients. One small Pine-apple, tinned or fiesli. One pint of Water, if tinned ; One pint and a half of Water, if fresh fruit. Half a pound of Loaf Sugar. One tablespoonful of Lemon-juice. Pound the pine-apple in a mortar, put it in a stewpan with the water and sugar; let this boil ten minutes, strain into a basin, add the lemon- juice, and when cold, freeze. Strawberry Cream Ice. Ingredients. One pound of Strawberries. Quarter of a pound of Castor Sugar. One teaspoonful of Cochineal. One tablespoonful of Lemon-juice. Half a pint of whipped Cream. Remove the stalks from strawberries, put them on a fine hair-sieve, rub them through with a wooden spoon, add the cochineal and lemon-juice. This should measure half a pint. Add to this the234 HiaH-CLASS COOKEKT. cream whipped, and freeze. When well fro^^en, pack tightly into an ice mould, and return to the ice till required for table. Cold Cabinet Pudding. Ingredunts, Six Savoys. Two ounces of Eatafias. Half a pint of Milk. Half an ounce of French Gelatine. The Yolks of four Eggs. Two ounces of dried Cherries. Half a gill of Cream. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Ornament the bottom of a pint mould with the cherries and angelica. Split the savoys in half, and line the sides of the mould round with them very evenly, arranging them alternately back and front next the tin. Put in the ratafias. Put four yolks of eggs into a basin, stir in the milk, pour this mixture into a jug, stand it in boiling water, and stir until it thickens, taking care that it does not curdle. Melt the gelatine in a little water, and strain it into the custard. When it is cool, add the cream, vanilla, and sugar, mix well, and pour carefully into the mould to the cakes. Put the mould on ice or in a cool place to set. When set, turn out and serve.CE^AMS, jELLIES^ IOES3 COLD SWEETS. 235 Charlotte Russe. Ingredients. Twelve Sponge Finger-biscuits. Half an ounce of Gelatine. One gill of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream. One dessertspoonful of Castor Sugar. Thirty drops of Essence of Vanilla. Take a pint souffle-tin and line it carefully with the biscuits, fitting them close to each other; cut off the tops of the biscuits that stand above the tin. Put the gelatine and milk in a stewpan on the fire to melt. Whip the cream to a stiff froth; add the sugar and vanilla to it. Strain the melted gelatine into the cream, mix it well, and pour it carefully into the mould, not to dis- arrange the biscuits. When set, turn out and serve. Chartreuse of Oranges. Ingredients, Six Tangerine Oranges. One pint of Jelly. Peel the oranges and take away every morsel of white skin very carefully, quarter them carefully not to break the skin and let the juice out. Cover the bottom of the mould with a little jelly, let it set until cold, then arrange the quarters of orange with great precision and neatness all round the236 HIGH-CLASS COOKEllY. mould overlapping each other, carefully pour in a little jelly to cover these quarters, and when quite set repeat this, until the mould is full. When set, turn out and serve. Chocolate Tartlets. Ingredients, Four Eggs. Half a cake of Chocolate. One tablespoonful of Corn-flour, dissolved in water. Three tablespoonf uls of Milk. Four tablespoonfuls of Castor Sugar. Two teaspoonfuls of Vanilla. One saltspoonful of Salt. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Cinnamon. One teaspoonful of Melted Butter. Melt the chocolate in the milk, and when it boils stir in the corn-flour, and stir well until it thickens ; then set it to cool. Beat up four yolks and two whites of eggs with the sugar, and stir them to the cold chocolate, with the vanilla, cin- namon, salt, and butter, till light. Bake in open shells of pastry. When done, cover them with some meringue made of two whites of egg whipped to a stiff froth, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Eat when cold.CREAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 237 Custard. Ingredients^ Four Yolks of Egg and one White. Half a pint of Milk. A tablespoonful of Brandy. One ounce of Loaf Sugar. Flavouring to taste, Vanilla and Lomon-peel. Put the yolks of four eggs and the white of one into a basin and mix them well together with a wooden spoon, stir in the milk and strain it all into a milk saucepan or a jug, add the sugar stand the jug (if you use one) in a saucepan of boiling water and stir the custard over the fire until it thickens, but mind it does not boil or your custard will curdle and be spoilt. Take it off the fire, stir in the brandy and flavouring a few drops of vanilla or any other essence you like. When the custard is cold pour it into custard glasses with a little grated nutmeg on the top, and it is ready for table. If you flavour with lemon-peel it must be put into the milk before the custard is cooked and taken out before serving. Diplomatic Pudding, Ingredients, One pint of Custard. See above. Half a pint of Jelly. See p. 229, One ounce of French Gelatine. Two ounces of Sponge Cake*238 HiaH-OLASS COOKERY, Two ounces of Katafias. Two ounces of Castor Sugar. One gill of Cream Vanilla Essence. One ounce and a half of dried Cherries. One ounce of Angelica. Half an ounce of Citron. Line a plain mould with jelly and decorate it with half an ounce of dried cherries and half an ounce of angelica. Melt the gelatine in a gill of water and stir it into the custard, add also the castor sugar, flavouring and cream: stir this occasionally until it is cool, then stir the rest of the cherries, the angelica, and half an ounce of citron, all chopped up. Pour this gently into the mould you have decorated. When it is set, turn out and serve. Gateaux a TAfricaine. Ingredients. Three Eggs. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Two and a half ounces of Flour. Work the yolks of eggs and castor sugar well together with a wooden spoon. Beat the whites up stiffly and rub the flour through a sieve; then mix all together thoroughly but lightly. Put the mixture into a bag with a funnel at the end about the size of a shilling and press out pieces of the paste on to a greased tin the size of a small l^iscuit. Bake these in a moderate oven for aboutoheams, jellies, ioes, cold sweets. 230 half an hour; when cold take two of these rounds and scoop out a small piece at the bottom of each, place a little whipped cream in each cavity, and stick the two cakes together : proceed in this way with all the cakes. Then cover them over with chocolate icing, and when cold they are ready to serve, Gateau aux Prunes. Ingredients, One pound of Prunes. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Three quarters of an ounce of Gelatine. The juice and rind of one Lemon. One glass of Brandy or Marsala, One pint of Water. A few drops of Cochineal. Boil the prunes in the water and sugar until quite soft; then take out the stones, crack the kernels and add them with the brandy, lemon- juice and peel, a little cochineal, and the" gelatine dissolved in a little water; boil all for twenty minutes. Pour into a border mould; when set, turn it out and serve with whipped cream in the centre. Jubilee Pudding. Ingredients. One pint of Claret Jelly. Half a pint of whipped Cream. (Quarter of an ounce of Gelatine,240 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. One ounce of Preserved Cherries. One ounce of Angelica. One ounce of Preserved Ginger. One ounce of Preserved Apricot. Set a mould thickly with claret jelly. Whip the cream very stiffly and stir in the fruits chopped up, the gelatine melted, and the castor sugar. Till in the centre of the mould with the whipped cream and fruits. Turn it out and serve with whipped cream round if liked, this will require a little more cream than the half pint for the centre, and can be left out or not according to taste. Marguerites. Ingredients. Two and a quarter pounds of Castor Sugar, Twelve Whites of Eggs. Whip the whites stiffly and mix as for meringues. Then put the mixture into a bag having a funnel about the size of a sixpence; press the meringue on to a greased tin in narrow finger-shaped pieces. Sprinkle with pink sugar and chopped almonds, and bake in a slow oven until crisp. Eemove very carefully on to a sieve, and serve cold with ices as for dessert.CREAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 241 Meringues. Ingredients. Four Whites of Eggs. A half pound of Castor Sugar. . A flat Meringue Board. Oiled paper to cover the Board. Cover the meringue board with oiled paper. Whip the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth and stir in the sugar. Shape some of this mixture in a dessertspoon, scoop it out with another dessert- spoon and lay it on the oiled paper, sift some castor sugar over each meringue and dry them well in a warm oven. Then turn them over, press in all the soft part underneath, and dry them again. If for immediate use, fill them with whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. If not required at once, put them away in a tin box covered over with paper until they are wanted. Pouding k TOrldans. Ingredients, Half au ounce of Gelatine. Half a pint of Milk. The Yolks of four Eggs and one White. Two ounces of Sugar. Three ounces of Biscuit Crumbs. Three ounces of Pine Apple. Two ounces of dried Cherries. One ounce of Angelica. Flavour well according to taste. B242 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. Make the custard of the milk, eggs, and sugar, and let it cool. Melt the gelatine in a gill of milk, stir this to the custard, and add the cake crumbs; when nearly cold, add the fruits cut up, and pour it into a mould nicely decorated with pieces of pine-apple. When quite set, turn out and serve with chopped jelly round. Princess Pudding or Cold Souffl6. Ingredients, One gill of Milk or Cream. Half an ounce of Gelatine, One gill of Apricot Puree, or One gill of Orange-juice. Yolks of three Eggs. Whites of four Eggs. Two ounces of Sugar. A little Lemon-juice. A few drops of Cochineal. Put the milk and gelatine into a stewpan, and stir over the fire until dissolved, care being taken that it does not boil, or it will curdle; beat the three yolks of eggs well and add to the milk. When well mixed, put into a stewpan and stir till it thickens—it must not boil; add the sugar. Then pour out into a basin, add the apricot puree, lemon-juice, and cochineal. Beat the four whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, and add them to the other ingredients, stirring lightly but thoroughly.CREAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. 243 Stir until nearly cold before putting it into a mould. The mould should be ornamented with bright pale jelly. Riz a rimperatrice- Ingredients. Quarter of a pint of clear Jelly* One ounce of preserved Oheirries* Half an ounce of Angelica. Quarter of a pound of Kice. One quart of Milk, Half a pint of whipped Cream. Half an ounce of Gelatine. Quarter of a pound of Castor Sugar. Vanilla. Set a mould with the jelly, cherries, and an** gelica. Stew the rice tender in the milk, and when cool add the cream, gelatine melted in a little water, sugar, and vanilla. Turn this pre- paration into the decorated mould and set on ice. When quite cold, turn the rice out carefully and pour round a puree of apricots. Spanish Souffle* Ingredients, Six Sponge Cakes. Jam and Ked Jelly. Maraschino or Sherry. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Whites of five Eggs. Vanilla Essence. R 2HiGH-CLASS COOKERY. 244 Cut the sponge cakes into three pieces length- ways, putting jam between each layer ; pile up on a glass dish, and well soak them with either sherry or Maraschino. When soaked, beat up the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth; add sugar and vanilla; mask the cakes entirely over with the egg and put in a cool oven to dry; when dry, garnish with red jelly. Timbale de Fruits a la Marechale. Ingredients, One pint of Maraschino Jelly. French Plums. Oranges. Apricots. Apples. Cherries. Prepare the fruits carefully. The French plums should be stoned and stewed in claret, the apples turned into small even pieces and boiled tender in syrup, and the oranges and apricots divided into convenient pieces. When these are all ready set them with the Maraschino jelly in a fancy mould, and when cold turn out and serve.( 245 ) FANCY BEEAD AND CAKES, Arrowroot Cake. Ingredients, One pound of Butter. One pound of Arrowroot, One pound of Sugar. Eight Eggs. Rind of one Lemon. Beat the butter to a cream; beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately a long time; add the sugar rubbed through a sieve and the grated lemon-peel. Beat all well together for one hour^ and bake in a moderate oven. Brioche. Ingredients for the Sponge, Four ounces of Flour. Half an ounce of Yeast. Half a gill of warm Water. Melt the yeast in the warm water, put the flour on a plate, make a hole in the centre an(J246 Hian-OLASS COOKERY. stir in- the yeast, work it well together till a soft paste, cover it over and set it to rise in a warm place for an hour till it is double the size it was ^t first. Ingredients for the Dough, Twelve ounces of Flour. Twelve ounces of Butter, Nine Eggs. Two ounces of Sugar. One gill of warm Milk or Cream, A good pinch of Salt. Mix the salt and sugar with the warm milk or cream, put the flour on a slab, make a hole in the centre and mix in the butter warmed, the milk and the nine eggs. Work it lightly backwards and forwards to rub out all the lumps. Mix the sponge and the dough when thoroughly in- corporated,* cover it over and set it in a cool place for twelve hours; then make it up and bake it in small moulds or in shapes like a penny loaf. Bake it in a hot oven for about half an hour. When it is ready for baking the paste will appear full of small globules of air, and be elastic to the touch. Carraway Seed Cake. Ingredients, One pound of Flour. Half a pound of Butter. * If the sponge and dough when mixed are too thin, a little mpre flour must be worked in.FANCY BEEAI> AND CAKES. 247 Half a pound of Castor Sugar. One large teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Half an ounce of Carraway Seeds. Five Eggs. A little Milk (if required). Proceed as for " Luncheon Cake." Page 251. Cocoanut Buns. Ingredients, Three quarters of a pound of Prepared Flour.* Quarter of a pound of Cocoanut. Quarter of a pound of White Sugar. Three ounces of Butter. One Egg. One gill of Milk. Cream the butter and sugar well together; add the milk and egg by degrees, also the flour and the cocoanut, mix well, shape into buns, and bake twenty minutes. This quantity will make twenty- four buns. Chocolate Cake. Ingredients. Half a pound of grated Chocolate. Quarter of a pound of Flour. * To make Prepared Flour; four pounds of Vienna Flour, two ounces of Cream of Tartar, one ounce of Carbonate of Soda—well mixed together.248 HiaH-OLASS COOKERY, Half a pound of Butter. Two ounces of ground Kice. Six ounces of White Sugar. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Four Eggs. Vanilla flavouring. Beat the butter and sugar well together, add the grated chocolate, previously dissolved in a table- spoonful of milk; add the eggs one by one, mixing each carefully. Mix the flour, rice, and baking^owder together, sift them through a sieve to the eggs. Pour this mixture into a saute-pan, and bake in a m^lSerate oven for one hour. Galettes. Ingredients. One pound of Household Flour. One pound of Vienna Flour. One ounce of Yeast. Half an ounce of Castor Sugar. Half a pint of Milk (warmed). Half a pound of Butter. Seven Eggs. Sieve the household flour into a basin and make it into a soft dough with the milk, in which the yeast and sugar have been mixed as usual. Put the Vienna flour into another basin, add the eggs and the butter, and beat altogether with the hand. When the yeast has risen for about one hour, put the contents of the two basins together249 FANCY BREAD AND CAKES. and beat until the mixtures are thoroughly in- corporated (about twenty minutes). The dough must now rise for another hour. Make into large oval cakes, prove about fifteen minutes till the tops crack, and bake in a quick oven. Brush with sugar and milk when half baked. Genoa Cake. Ingredients, ^ Ten ounces of Flour. Half a pound of Butter. Half a pound of Sugar. Three ounces of Candied Peel. One ounce of Pistachio Kernels. Two ounces* of Almonds. Six ounces of Sultanas. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Five Eggs. Grated rind of one Lemon. Cream the butter well. Add the sugar, and cream again. Add all the other ingredients except the almonds, pistachio nuts, eggs and baking- powder ; then add the eggs one at a time, beating each one well in. When all are well mixed in, add the almonds and pistachio kernels cut in strips, and lastly the baking-powder. Bake in a shallow tin or saute-pan for one hour and a half in a moderate oven.HIOH-OLASS COOKERY. 250 German Pound Cake, Ingredients, Ten ounces of Flour. Eight ounces of fresh Butter. Eight ounces of Castor Sugar, Four ounces of Peel. One Lemon. Half a pound of Sultanas, Five Eggs. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the flour, sifted by degrees, and the eggs, one at a time, beating all well together with your hand. Now add the sultanas, the candied peel chopped up, and the grated rind of the lemon; mix all well together with a spoon. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, putting three rounds of buttered paper at the bottom of the tin ; pour in the cake, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. When baked, turn it out on to a sieve to cool. Lemon Cheese Cakes. Ingredients, Three ounces of Castor Sugar. The Yolks of three Eggs; and The Whites of three (whipped). One ounce of Katafla crumbs. Two tablespoonfuls of Lemon-juice. The grated Eind of one Lemon. Mix all these ingredients well together, adding the whites of eggs, well whipped the last; lineFANCY BREAD AND CAKES. 251 some tartlet tins with pastry rolled out thin and cut out with a cutter, fill in with the lemon mixture and bake about fifteen or twenty minutes. Luncheon Cake. Ingredients. One pound of Vienna Flour (sifted). Half a pound of Butter. Half a pound of Castor Sugar. Half a pound of Sultanas. Six ounces of mixed Peel. The Eind of two Lemons. One large teaspoonful of Yeatman*s Baking Powder, Five Eggs. Eub the butter and flour together in a basin, then add the sultanas and all the other in- gredients. Break the five eggs into another basin and whip them, then add them to the mixture. Pour into a cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven for one and a half hour. Madeira Cake. Ingredients, Five ounces of Butter. Five ounces of Castor Sugar. Eight ounces of Flour. Four Eggs. A little Citron, and grated Lemon-peel.Hian-OLASS COOKERY. 252 Cream the butter and sugar together, add the grated lemon-peel, stir in the eggs one at a time, sift the flour and add it by degrees. Butter a cake-tin, pour in the mixture, smooth it over and put a few pieces of citron on the top. Bake forty minutes in a moderate oven.' Mocha Cake. Ingredients for the Cake. Four Eggs. Quarter of a pound of Castor Sugar. Two ounces of Yienna Flour. Two ounces of Potato Flour. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Ingredients for the leing. Half a pound of fresh Butter. One pound of Icing Sugar. One tablespoonful of Essence of Coffee. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the castor sugar, adding the flour and baking-powder gradually, then stir in lightly the four whites of eggs whipped to a stiff froth; butter a plain mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for thirty minutes. When done, turn it out, and when quite cold, cover it with the icing, and decorate to taste with the icing squeezed through the icing forcers. To make the icing, beat the butter and sugar together in a253 FANCY BREAD AND CAKES. basin to a smooth cream, adding the coffee to it one drop at a time. When the cake is iced, stand it away on ice or in a cool place till required. Orange Cake. Ingredients, Six ounces of Vienna Flour. Five ounces of Castor Sugar. Kind and juice of one Orange, grated. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Three Eggs. Beat the eggs and sugar together to a smooth cream; add the flour and baking-powder sifted, and the orange juice and rind. Mix all well together, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. When cold, ice it with French icing made of half a pound of icing sugar worked well with the juice of the orange ; when well mixed, pour this all over the cake. Queen Cakes. Ingredients, Quarter poiind of Buttet. Quarter pound of Castor Sugar. Quarter pound of Currants or dried Cherries. Two ounces of Candied Peel. Six ounces of fine Flour.254 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. The Kind of two Lemons (grated)^ Three Egg3. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Cream the butter and sugar, then add the eggs and flour by degrees, then the fruit, peel, and other ingredients; put this mixture into small queen cake tins, and bake a pale brown in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. Rich Plum Cake. Ingredients, One pound of fresh Butter. One pound of Castor Sugar, One pound of Mixed Peel. One pound and a half of Mour. One pound of dried Cherries* One pound of Sultana Kaisins. Eight ounces of Almonds. Half a pint of Brandy. Ten Eggs. One teaspoonful of Salt. One ounce of Allspice. Cream the butter and sugar well together, then sift in the flour and salt gradually, add the eggs one at a time, beating with your hand till all is well and smoothly mixed. Chop the cherries a little, chop the peel and the almonds, add these with the sultanas and the allspice, mix well together, and add last of all the brandy, a little at a time. Be sure that all is thoroughly mixed. Line a cake-FANCY BREAD AND CAKES. 255 tin with buttered paper, putting three rounds of buttered paper at the bottom, and bake for three hours in a moderate oven. The heat of the oven must not rise after the cake goes in. Savarin. Ingredients, Half a pound of Vienna Flour. Half an ounce of German Yeast. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Castor Sugar, Haifa pint of Milk. Five Eggs. Five ounces of Butter. Warm one gill of milk, mix the yeast and sugar together, and stir the warm milk to them. Sift the flour into a basin, make a well in the middle, and pour in the milk with the yeast and sugar in it; just mix a little flour with it, and put it in a warm place to rise. When this sponge has risen to twice its original size, add the other gill of milk and two eggs; beat it well with the hand, adding by degrees the other three eggs and the butter beaten to a cream. Work all this well together, and put it into a mould to rise; when it has risen, bake it in a moderate oven for forty- five minutes. Turn it out, and when cold pour a good rum syrup over it.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 256 Sponge Cake. Ingredients. Half a pound of Vienna Flour, Half a pound of Loaf Sugar. Quarter of a pint of water. Eight Eggs. Sift the flour. Make a syrup of the sugar until it sticks to your fingers. Beat the eggs well and add to the syrup, beat these well together for ten minutes, then work in the flour very lightly and by degrees, bake in a moderate oven from thirty to forty minutes. Cake Icing. Ingredients, Two pounds of Icing Sugar. Four Whites of Eggs. The juice of two Lemons. Eub the sugar through a hair-sieve into a basin^ make a well in the sugar and pour in the whites of eggs and lemon-juice, work these all well to- gether with a wooden spoon until quite soft. Put two layers of this icing with a knife, you must dip the knife in water from time to time to prevent it sticking. The third layer must be clear icing made thus: One pound of loaf sugar^ half a pint of water boiled together for fifteen toFANCY BREAD AND CAKES. 257 twenty minutes and reduced to a syrup. Stir in a basin till nearly cold and pour over the cake. When this is dry, ornament with the first icing through a forcer. Chocolate Icing. Ingredients. Half a giU of Water. Three ounces of Chocolate. Half a pound of Icing Sugar. Melt the chocolate in water; add the sugar when the water is warm, it must not boil. Sultana Cake. Ingredients, One pound of Flour. Half a pound of Butter, Half a pound of Castor Sugar. Five Eggs. Half a pound of Sultanas. One gin of Milk. The rind of one Lemon. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Four ounces of Peel. Salt. ■ Cream the butter and sugar well together, sift in the flour, the salt, and the baking-powder; add the eggs, one at a time, and the milk; beat all well to- gether with your hand ; then stir in the sultanas, sHiaH-CLASS COOKERY. 258 the peel chopped, and the grated lemon-rind. Mix well. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, two thicknesses at the bottom, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a half. Vienna Bread. Ingredients, One pound of Flour. Half an ounce of Yeast. Quarter of an ounce of Castor Sugar. Quarter of an ounce of Salt. One Egg. One ounce of Butter. Half a pint of warm Milk. Mix the sugar and yeast together ; beat up the egg, add it to the milk and pour it into the yeast. Have the flour, salt, and butter in a basin. Pour the dissolved yeast to these, and beat all together. Let the dough rise about two hours; make the mixture into rolls ; let them prove, and bake in a quick oven. Walnut Oake. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Vienna Flour. Half a pound of Castor Sugars Half a pound of Butter. Eight Eggs.FANCY BREAD AND CAKES. 259 Half a pound of Walnuts or Almonds. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. One teaspoonful of Vanilla Essence. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the flour, sifted, and mix well; add the walnuts or almonds chopped, and lastly the whites only of the eight eggs, whipped to a stiff froth. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour.( 260 ) INDEX. SOUPS. PAGE T'AGE Puree a la Princesse 24 stock 1 Puree de Pois Verts 25 Consomme 2 Puree a la Palestine 25 Consomme a, la Kachel 3 Puree de Tomates . 26 Consomme a la Royale 3 Puree de Choux de Bru- Consomme aux (Eufs Files 4 26 Consomme d'Orleans 4 Bestorative Soup 27 Consomme a la Sevigne 5 Carrot Soup a la Crecy 5 Chicken Broth .... 6 DRESSED FISH. Clear Mock Turtle and Ee^ Balls .... 6 Athenian Eel and Sauce 29 Clear Mulligatawny 8 29 Kidney Soup .... 9 Cotelettes aux Huitres a Potage d'Oseille a la Parl- la Creme . . . . 30 9 Dressed Mussels 32 Potage aux Abatis . 10 Eel Pie 32 Potage a I'Americaine . 11 Filets de Cabillaud a la Potage a la Bonne Femme 11 Normande .... 33 Potage Dupoise, or Mussel Filets de Rougets a I'ltali- 12 34 Potage aux Huitres 13 Filets de Soles a la Colbert 34 Potage a la Hollandaise . 14 Fish Cakes 35 Potage a la Julienne . 15 Homard a la St. Stephens . 35 Potage a la Puree Lievre . 16 Lobster Cutlets .... 36 Potage aux Queues de Bceuf 17 Lobster Soufifie' .... 37 Potage au Kiz .... 18 Matelotte of Eels . . . 38 Potage a la Tortue Fausse 18 Oyster Souffle .... 39 Potage au Tapioca . 20 Pctits Souffles de Homard . 40 Potage a la Royaie 20 Scollops of Turbot . 40 Puree de Marrons . 21 Slice of Salmon Baked. 41 Puree de Navets 21 Sole a la Maitre d'Hotel . 41 Puree de Homard . 22 Sole aux Fines Herbes 42 Puree de Pommes de Terre 23 Sole au Gratin a I'Anglaise 43INDEX. 261 PAGE Sole a la Bohemienne . . 43 Sole a la Portugaise . . 44 Soles a la Rouennaise . . 45 Soleal'Horly .... 46 Stewed Sole a la Gascogne 47 Souffle de Saumon ... 47 Stewed Eels .... 48 Stewed Oysters.... 49 Stewed Trout .... 49 Supreme de Crabe a la Tomate 50 Tartelettes a I'lndienne . 51 To Warm up Perch . . 51 To Warm up Salmon . . 52 Water Souchy .... 53 Whitebait 53 CURRIES AND INDIAN DISHES. Ourry Powder .... 55 Brown Curry (Beef) 56 Dry Curry . 57 Fish Curry 58 Kebob Curry .... 58 Vegetable Curry 59 White Curry (Chicken) . 60 Burdwan of Fowl . 61 Devilled Almonds . 61 Devilled Lobster . 62 Clear Mulligatawny . "Mollet" (Indian Break- 63 fast Dish) .... 63 PillauofFowl .... 64 ENTREES. Ailerons de Volaille a rindienne .... 66 1 66 ' Bengal Curry .... 67 Bouchecs de Yolaille a la St. James .... 68 Bouchees a la Reine . 69 Boudins a la Richelieu 69 Broiled Partridge . 70 Calf's Head Pie . . . 71 PAGE Chaudfroid of Chicken (No. 1) 71 Chaudfroid of Chicken (No. 2) . . . 72 Chaudfroid of Larks or Quails 72 Chartreuse de Faisan . . 73 Chartreuse de Lievre . . 74 Chicken Casuala . . .75 Chicken Saute a la Marengo 76 Civet de Lievre. ... 77 Cotelettes de Mouton a I'Ambassadrice ... 78 Creme de Volaille . . .79 Rissoles de Volaille . . 79 Cutlets a la Bretonne . . 80 Cutlets Chaudfroid a la Russe 80 Cutlets a I'Epicurienne . 81 Cutlets a la Milanaise . . 82 Mutton Cutlets a la Pro- ven9ale 82 Cutlets a la Rachel . . 83 Cutlets a la Reforme . . 84 Dariole de Volaille (Tart- lettes of Chicken) . . 85 Mutton Cutlets a la Sou- bise 86 Cutlets a la Venetienne . 86 Cotelettes de Veau ... 87 Escallopes do Poulet a la Financiere .... 88 Filets de Boeuf a la Bear- naise 89 Filets de Boeuf a la Miia- beau 90 Filets de Boeuf Pique' a la Flamande 90 Filets de Boeuf aux Huitres 91 Filets de Boeuf a la Pompa- dour 91 Filets de Boeuf a la Regence 92 Filets de Boeuf a la Russe. 93 Filets de Lievre a la Montpensier . . . .94 Filets de Lievre a la St. Stephens 95262 INDEX. PAGE Filets de Veau a la Talley- rand 97 Fricandeau de Veau . . 97 Fricassee de Poulet . . 98 Game Pie 100 Galantine of Fowl . . . 101 Gibelotte de Lapin . . . 102 Grenadins de Veau . .102 Grilled Steak a la Maitre d'Hotel 103 Jugged Hare .... 104 Forcemeat Balls . . . 104 Kromeskis a la Eusse . . 105 Mouviettes en Oaisse a la Lucullus . . . . . 106 Mauviettes a la Chipolata. 107 Mayonnaise aux Huitres . 108 Mayonnaise de Volaille . 108 Minced Veal .... 109 Mousses de Faisan . .109 Noisette de Mouton . .110 Noix de Boeuf a la Chipo- lata Ill Ox Palates a la Financiere 112 Compote de Pigeons . .113 Pigeons de Bordeaux a la Bourgeois e . . . .114 Pigeons a la Duchesse. . 114 Pigeons a la Financiere . 115 Pigeons a la Mazarin . .115 Quails a la Lucullus . .116 Quenelles of Veal . . .117 Kis de Veau a I'ltalienne . 119 Ris de Veau a la Supreme. 119 Rognons a I'Epicurienne • 120 Rognons aux Croutes . .121 Croquettes a la Victoria . 122 Souffle de Perdrix ... 122 Souffle de Volaille ... 123 Salmi of Cold Wild Duck. 123 Stewed Steak a la Russe . 124 Supreme de Faisan a la Beaufcrt . . . . '. 125 Timbales a la Moelle de Bceuf 125 Timbales de Volaille (No. 1) 126 Timbales de Volaille (No. 2) 127 TendroDS de Veau a la Tartare 127 Tendrons de Veau a la Villeroy ..... 128 Tete de Veau en Tortue . 128 Vol-au-Vent a la Toulouse 129 SAUCES. Espagnole 130 Supreme b'auce (or Veloute) 131 Bechamel Sauce . . . 131 Sauce Allemande . . . 132 Bearnaise Sauce . . .133 Bombay Sauce (No. 1) . 134 Bombay Sauce for Ham or Roast Hare (No. 2) . . 134 Bread Sauce .... 135 Sauce a I'Ambassadrice . 135 Sauce a la Cardinal . .135 Sauce Chaudfroid Blanche 136 Sauce Chaudfroid Blonde . 137 Sauce Chaudfroid Verte . 137 Celery Sauce .... 138 Sauce Demi-glace . . . 138 Financiere Sauce . . .139 German Sauce .... 139 Sauce Hollandaise . . . 140 Horse-radish Sauce. . . 140 Sauce Italienne.... 140 Lobster Sauce .... 141 Mayonnaise Sauce . . .142 Oyster Sauce . . . . 142 Sauce Piquante. . . .143 Sauce Suedoise .... 143 Poivrade Sauce . . . .144 Sauce Reforme .... 144 Soubise Sauce . . . ,145 Sauce Verte 145 Tartare Sauce . . . .146 Sauce Tomate . . . .146 Wine Sauce ..... 147 Brandy Sauce . . . .147 Custard Sauce .... 148 VARIOUS RECIPES. To boil a York Ham . . 149 To boil an Ox Tongue. . 150 Boiled Pheasant . . .151263 INDEX. PAGE Boiled Turkey and Oyster Stuffing ..... 151 Braized Ox Tongue . .152 Shoulder of Mutton Stuffed and Braized . . . .152 Lark Pudding . . . .153 Partridge Pudding. . .151: VEGETABLES AND SALADS. Asparagus 155 Jerasalem Artichokes a ITtalienne 155 Brussels Sprouts . . . 156 Champignons Grilles . .157 French Beans a la Maitre d'Hotel 157 Haricots panaches a la Maitre d'Hotel . . .158 Plain Salad . . . . .158 Pommes de Terre a I'Amia 159 Pommes de Terre Souffles . 159 Saute Potatoes . . . . 160 Potato Scollops .... 160 Potato Croquettes . . .161 Potato Ch:ps .... 161 Salade a la Russe . . . 162 Salade de Tomate a la Creme 163 Seakale 164 Spinach 164 Stewed Celery . . . 164 Tomates a la Fran^aise . 165 Tomates en Feuilletage . 165 Young Carrots . . . .166 SAVOURIES. Canapes de Laitance . . 170 Cassolettes a I'Albany . . 170 Cassolettes of Potato . . 171 Cassolettes of Rice . . . 171 Choufleur au Gratia . .172 Cheese Aigrettes . . . 173 Ciieese d'Artois. . . . 174 Cheese Souffle . . . .174 Cheese Tartlets .... 175 Choux Marin au Parmesan 176 Cold Cheese Souffle . . 176 Cotelettes au Fromage. . 177 Creme au Parmesan en Caisses 177 Croustades 177 Croutes a I'Alsacienne . .178 Croutes a la Bernadotte . 179 Croutes au Fromage . . 179 Croutes de Merluche Fume 179 Croutes de Fromage Glacees 180 Homard a la Creme . .181 Huitres a la St. James . 181 Macaroni a 1'Americaine . ] 82 Mushrooms Farcis . . .182 GEufs a I'Aurore . . .183 (Eufs a la Bonne Femme . 183 CEufs a Madame . . .184 QSufs a la Suisse . . .184 (Eafs Farcis a la Russe . 185 (Eufs Farcis a la Proven- 9ale 186 Oysters a la St. Patrick . 186 Ravioli a I'ltalienne . .187 Sardines a la Pietmentaise 187 Savoury Cream . . . .188 Scotch Eggs 188 Smoked Salmon . . . ] 89 Souffle de Merluche Fume 189 Timbales of Haddock a la Genoise 190 Tomates Farcies au Gratin 191 Cassolettes de Saumon . 192 PASTRY. Anchovy Toast . . . . 167 Anchovy Sandwiches . .167 Angels on Horseback . .168 Aspic Jelly 168 Birds' Nests 169 Canapes a la Fife . . . j 69 Canapes aux Olives . .169 Cheese Pastry . . . .193 Flaky Crust .... 194 Genoese Pastry .... 194INDEX. 264 Petits Choux PAGE . 195 . 195 Rough Puff. . . . 196 Short Crust .... 197 T Wl dU V cut LIU Jruiuiutio . 197 OMELETS. Cheese Omelet . . . 199 Kidney Omelet . . . 199 Oyster Omelet . . .200 Savoury Omelet . . 201 Sweet Omelet . . 201 Tomato Omelet. . 202 Omelet Souffle . . 203 HOT PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLES. Amber Pudding . 204 Alexandra Pudding . 205 Brown Bread Pudding. . 205 Baked Lemon Pudding . 206 Cabinet Pudding . . 207 Caramel Pudding . . 207 Cocoanut Pudding . . 208 Conservative Pudding . . 209 Fig Pudding . 209 Plum Pudding . . 210 Pine-apple Souffle . . 211 Easpberry Pudding . 212 Semolina Souffle . 212 Mince Meat. . . . . 213 Viennoise Pudding. . 213 Vanilla Souffle . . . . 214 West-Riding Pudding . . 215 CREAMS, JELLIES, ICES, COLD SWEETS. Apricot Cream . . 216 Coffee Cream . 216 PAGE Gateau de Riz . . . . 217 Ginger Cream .... 21H Italian Cream .... 218 Neapolitan Cream . . .219 Pine Apple Cream . . 219 Rice Cream 220 Strawberry Cream . . . 220 A^anilla Cream .... 221 Velvet Cream .... 222 Apple Jelly . . . . 222 Aspic Jelly from Calves' Feet 223 Aspic Jelly from French Gelatine ..... 225 Claret Jelly 226 "Orange Jelly .... 226 Punch Jelly . ... 227 Wine Jelly from Calves' Feet 228 Wine Jelly from French Gelatine . . . . .229 Biscuits Glaces en Caisses 229 Creme au Pain Bis Glace en Caisses .... 230 Iced Souffle with Maras- chino 230 Ice Pudding 231 Lemon Water Ice . . . 232 Parfait au Cafe, or Mousse 232 Pine-apple Water Ice . . 233 Strawberry Cream Ice . . 233 Cold Cabinet Pudding. . 234 Charlotte Russe . . .235 Chartreuse of Oranges . 235 Chocolate Tartlets . . . 236 Custard 237 Diplomatic Pudding Gateaux a I'Africaine . Gateau aux Prunes. Jubilee Pudding Marguerites ..... 240 Meringues 241 Ponding a I'Orle'ans Princess Pudding or Cold Souffle Riz a rimperatrice. Spanish Souffle .... Timbale de Fruits a la Marechale 237 238 239 239 . 241 242 243 243 244265 INDEX. FANCY BREAD AND CAKES. ' Madeira Cake Mocha Cake. Orange Cake Queen Cakes . 251 . 252 . 253 . 253 . 254 . 255 . 256 . 256 . 257 . 257 . 258 . 258 PAGE PAGE Arrowroot Cake Brioche .... Carraway Seed Cake Oocoanut Buns . Chocolate Cake. Galettes .... Genoa Cake. German Pound Cake Lemon Cheese Cakes Luncheon Cake. . 245 . 245 . 246 . 247 . 247 . 248 . 249 . 250 . 250 . 251 Rich Plum Cake Savarin . Sultana Cake Vienna Bread Walnut Cake Chocolate Icing Sponge Cake Cake Icing . NOTE. To insure good frying, the heat of the fat should be tested by a fryometer; the right heat for Whitebait is not less than 400°, for Fish from 360° to 375°, and for Meat from 375° to 380^. If oil is used it must be much hotter than either fat or lard. The fry- ometers and oven thermometers used in the School have the correct heats for various cookings marked on the scale, and are made by Messrs. Joseph Davies & Co., Fitzroy Works, S.E.LONDON: PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, Limited, STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.AD VERTISEMENTS. ADAMS & SON, MANDFACTORING & FURNISHING IRONMONGERS, ELECTRO-PLATERS AND CUTLERS, By Appointment to H.M. the dueen and II.Il,H. the Prince of "Wales. 57, HAYMARKET, 8.W. STOCKPOT. BAINMARIE STEWPAN. BEST HOUSE IN THE TRADE FOR KITCHEN REQUISITES, MOULDS, and all the latest Parisian Novelties and Specialities for the Cuisine, special attentiott being- given to this Department. DEPOT FOR PATENT "SANITARY SEAMLESS STEEL" COOKING VESSELS. 10 per cent. Discount allowed for Cash.. Illustrated Catalogue forwarded on application. LIDSTONE & CO., TELEPHONE No. 8556. Butcbete, Established 1801. 206, SLOANE STREET, S.W. T IDSTONE & Co. of Sloane Street have supplied the National Training -Li School of Cookery (and the leadiDg Hotels and Clubs in London) for many years with all Meat, Ox Tongues, Calves' Heads, &c., and will at all times be pleased to quote the very Lowest Prices by Contract or otherwise, to supply Clubs, Schools, Hotels, or Private Families for Cash or monthly payments. They always send out their meat well hung, ready for immediate use, and being large buyers, have the first pick of the best Scotch and Home-killed Meat. The New Zealand Mutton and Lamb, of which they use only the very best Canterbury Brand, can also be relied upon as selected from the best shipments. f face E7id of Matter,AD VEBTISEMENTS.ADVEBTISEMENTS. I OVER 200 GOLD MEDALS AND DIPLOMAS. j No flaw in its claim i to be Absolutely Pure." i —Medical Annual. Fry's i PURE CONCENTRATED Cocoa \ "Strongest and Best." I —Health.