OL 01 224 the blood and fluids, but are difficult to be digested; they require a power- ful stomach, perfect mastication, suf- ficient saliva and bile, and agree best with persons who take much bodily exercise. If not duly digested they occasion diarrhoea, weaken the stomach and howels, stimulate too much by their uncommon acrimony, and easily turn rancid, especially when eaten with meat much dis- posed to putrefaction. They are apt to destroy the elastic power of the first passages, as well as of the whole body, to produce the heart-burn, cramp of the stomach, and head- ach, particularly in irritable habits, and, at length, to generate an im- pure and acrimonious blood. Among the oils and fats produced from ani- mal substances are enumerated— 1. Adipocire. 2. Ambergris. 3. Butyrine. 4. Chlorestine. 5. Dippel, animal oil of. 6. Hircine. 7. Hog’s lard and suet. 8. Phoconine. 9. Spermaceti. 10, Spermaceti oil. 11. Train oil,—which see. OILS, ESSENTIAL.—Essential oils have a penetrating odour and acid taste, which are often pleasant when sufficiently diluted. They unite with fixed oils in every proportion, and are sometimes adulterated with them. The most interesting of this class are— Oil of Anise. Oil of Citron. Carraway. Nutmeg. Cloves. Lavender. Chamomile. Peppermint, Cinnamon. Turpentine. Of these the most important is the last, which is much employed in the preparation of varnishes, and for some medical and chemical pur- poses. The others are used medi- cinally, as carminatives, or as per- fumes. OILS, FIXED.—The fixed oils are usually contained in the seeds of the almond, linseed, rape-seed, and poppy-seed; but olive oil is extracted from the pulp which surrounds the stone. (See Olive Oil). They are procured by bruising the seed, and subjecting the pulpy matter to pres- sure in a hempen bag, a gentle heat being generally employed at the same time to render the oil more limpid. With the exception of the palm oil, the fixed oils are fluid at common temperatures, are nearly inodorous, and have little taste. They are lighter than water, are commonly of a yellow colour, but may be rendered nearly or quite colourless by the action of animal charcoal. They undergo consider- able change by exposure to the air. They do not unite with water, though they may be permanently suspended in that fluid by means of sugar or mucilage, so as to form an emulsion. For the most part they are sparingly soluble in alcohol and ether. Strong sulphuric acid thickens the fixed oils, and forms with them a tenacious matter like soap: and they are also rendered thick and viscid by the action of chlorine. Concentrated nitric acid acts upon them with great energy, giving rise, in some instances, to the production of flame. Fixed oils unite with the common metallic oxides, and are readily at- tacked by alkalies.—See Olive Oil, Palm Oil, Sfc. OILS, VOLATILE. — Volatile oils are obtained by distillation, water being put into the still along with the plant, in order to prevent the latter from being burnt. It is to the presence of a volatile or essential oil that aromatic plants owe their fla- vour. Volatile oils burn in the open air with a clearer light, and the sole products of the combustion are water and carbonic acid. They do not readily unite with the metallic oxides, and are attacked with difficulty even by the alkalies. They dissolve sul- phur in large quantity, forming a