CO 77 CO chemically destroying the intimate union of the constituents of the fluids, as in wine injured by having been frozen, or by causing new combina- tions, of which we have an example in the sweetness acquired by the po- tatoe. Captain Scoresby, contrary to popular belief, states that “ the most surprising action of the frost on fresh provision, is in preserving it a long time from putrefaction, even after it is thawed, and returns into a cold climate. I have,” says he, “ eaten unsalted mutton and beef, nearly five months old, which has been constantly exposed to a tempe- rature above the freezing point for four or five weeks in the outset, and occasionally assailed by the influence of rain, fog, heat, and electricity, and yet it has proved perfectly sweet. It may be remarked, that unsalted meat that has been preserved four or five months in a cold climate, and then brought back to the British coasts during the warmth of summer, must be consumed very speedily after it is cut into, or it will fail in a day or two. It will seldom, indeed, prove sweet after being cooked above twenty or thirty hours.” No other caution for preserving animal substances is necessary, than exposing them to a sufficient degree of cold. Captain Scoresby observes, that “ animal substances requisite as food of all descriptions (fish excepted) may be taken to Greenland, and there preserved any length of time, without being dried, smoked, or salted. No preparation of any kind is neces- sary for their preservation; nor is any other precaution requisite, ex- cept suspending them in the air when taken on shipboard, shading them a little from the sun and wet, and immersing them occasionally in sea-water, or throwing sea-water over them after heavy rains, which will effectually prevent putrescency on the outward passage; and in Green- land, the cold becomes a sufficient preservation, by freezing them as hard as blocks of wood.” The mois- ture is well preserved by freezing, a little from the surface only evaporat- ing; so that if cooked when three, four, or five months old, meat will frequently appear as profuse of gravy as if it had been recently killed. We are not, however, informed by Cap- tain Scoresby, why fish cannot be taken to Greenland in a frozen state; though this method of preservation is much used in Russia and Ger- many, and even in our own country. Provisions that have been frozen, require some attention in thawing them. “ When used, the beef can- not be divided, but by an axe or saw; the latter being generally pre- ferred. It is then put into cold water, from whence it derives heat by the formation of ice around it, and soon thaws; but if put into hot water, much of the gravy is extracted, and the meat is injured without being thawed more readily. If an attempt be made to cook it before it is thawed, it may be burnt on the outside while the centre remains raw, or actually in a frozen state.” These observa- tions transcribed fromCaptain Scores- by, * an excellent observer, perfectly coincide with the directions of earlier writers. Thus,Krantzf says, “when fish taken under the ice are frozen, lay them in cold water, which thus draws the ice out of the fish, so that it can be scraped off their scales. They taste much better afterwards than when they are allowed to thaw in a warm room.” We are not aware whether it be ignorance or inatten- tion to this direction on the part of the London fishmongers, which causes the salmon sent from Scot- land to London in ice, to be little esteemed. _ * See his account of the Arctic Re- gions, with a history and description of the Northern Whale Fishery. 2 vols. 8vo. Edinb. 1819. t Encyclopaedia, vol. 10, p. 586. H 2