193 MA MA a golden, or brownish yellow colour, and to this is applied an Italian pro- verb,—“ Manna to the mouth, and balsam to the brain.” Malmsey is supposed to have received its name from Malvasia, a small island, east of the Morea, a peninsula in Turkey in Europe. The French call this wine Malvoisac. The Duke of Cla- rence, brother to Edward IV., is said to have been, at his own request, drowned in the tower, in a butt of malmsey. MALT. — Barley cured, or pre- pared for making a potable liquor, under the name of beer or ale. Bar- ley is converted into malt by being steeped in water and fermented, and then dried on a kiln, which is a sort of stove so constructed as to admit heat for the purpose of drying any thing. It is a wholesome and nutritious grain, containing a soft, balsamic, oleaginous essence, highly agreeable to the palate, and healthful to the constitution; but by no means in- toxicating, except when used in very large quantities. It may be made from any species of barley soaked in water for two or three days, or until the water turns reddish, then drain- ed, spread about two feet thick on a floor, where it heats, and emits its root or spike : it is then spread thinner for two or three days, then heaped up anew until it heats again, finally dried in a kiln, and the roots separated by screening. Five pounds of spring barley produce about four of malt. Malt is used to make an altera- tive, analeptic infusion, and its de- coction is fermented to form beer and ale. The exhausted malt left from brewing, called grains, is used !in London as food for cows, to whose milk it communicates a peculiar fla- vour, and a tendency to putresce. Pale malt is the most nutritious, being, from the tender method of drying it, nearest to the original barley-corn. It likewise contains more of the alkaline and balsamic qualities than the brown malt, which, enduring greater heat in the kiln, is sometimes so crushed and burnt, that its mealy parts lose a great por- tion of its essential salts and vital properties. Amber malt is that which is dried in a middle state be- tween pale and brown, and is now much in use, being the most plea- sant and free of either extremes. Patent malt is kept heated to 430° F., until it acquires a dark cho- colate colour. It is used to colour beer: one pound, with seventy-nine of pale malt, gives the colour and flavour of porter. The pale malt is esteemed of all others the most nutritious, as being more closely allied to its original barley-corn, in consequence of being more slowly and slackly dried, by means of a leisure fire, and a suffi- cient time allowed it on the kiln, and due care taken of it during the whole process. The flour of the grain re- mains in due quantity, and it pro- duces a greater strength of wort than the brown high-dried malt, conse- quently it fetches a better price in the market. The amber-coloured malt is that which is dried in a me- dium degree, between the pale and the brown; and is very much used, as being free from either extreme. Its colour is pleasant, its taste agree- able, and its nature wholesome, which is preferred by many, as the best kind of malt. This is brewed by some either with hard or soft water, or with both. The brown malt is the soonest and highest dried of any. It is even dried so hard that it is diffi- cult to bite some of its corn asunder, and is often so crusted, or burnt, that the mealy part loses a great deal of its essential properties, which fre- quently deceives the ignorant, brewer, who hopes to draw as much drink from a quarter of this, as he does from the same quantity of the paler or amber sorts. This malt is thought by some to occasion the gravel and s