365 YE and leaves, such support as is within their reach. All plants appear to require for their support water, earth, light, and air. Various experiments have been instituted, to shew that water is the only aliment which the root attracts from the soil. The same quantity of water is not requi- site for all plants; those that tran- spire little, do not stand in need of any considerable quantity of this fluid, and accordingly they are fixed upon dry rocks—for example, the mosses and lichens. The leaves of vegetables have likewise the property of absorbing water, and of extract- ing from the atmosphere the same principle which the root draws from the earth. But water plants, that is, such as live in the water, have no need of roots; they receive the fluid at all their pores. Dung mixed with earths and decomposed, not only affords the alimentary principles spoken of, hut likewise favours the growth of the plant by that constant and steady heat which its farther decomposition produces. Light is almost indispensable to plants. In the dark they growpale, languish,and die. One of the principal advantages resulting to Europe, from exploring distant regions, has been the intro- duction of some of the most useful plants and fruits that are now cul- tivated with so much advantage. From the discovery of America, one of the most important benefits per- haps that we have received, was the introduction of the potato; a root by far the most useful of all that we have among us. The pear, the peach, the apricot, and the quince (which see), were respectively brought from Epirus, Carthage, America, and Syria. They were first transplanted into Italy; and thence disseminated by the Romans, through the northern and western parts of Europe. Fruit, says Andrews {Hist. Eng.), seems to have been very scarce in England, in the time of Henry VII. In an original MS. signed by himself, and kept in the Remembrance-office, it appears that apples were paid for, not less than one or two shillings a piece; that a i-ed rose cost two shill- ings; and that a man and woman had eight shillings and fourpence for a few strawberries. It was not till the latter end of the reign of Henry VIII. (1547), that any salad, car- rots, or cabbage, or other edible roots, were produced in England. The little of these vegetables that was used, were formerly imported from Holland and Flanders. Queen Catherine (Henry’s first consort), w'hen she wanted a salad, was ob- liged to dispatch a messenger thither on purpose. Sundry other kinds of fruit and plants were also first cultivated in England during the reign of the Eighth Henry, particularly apricots, artichokes, pippins, and gooseberries. The latter are said to have been brought from Flanders. The currant tree was conveyed from Zante, by the Venetians, and planted in Eng- land in the year 1533. Asparagus, beans, peas, and cauliflowers, were introduced about the time of Charles the Second’s restoration (16G0).— Cabbages were introduced into Scot- land by the soldiers of Cromwell’s army. The delightful ornaments of our gardens, the most beautiful and fragrant flowers, are also foreign productions. For instance, among others, the jessamine came from the East Indies; the tulip, the lily, and several others from the Levant; the tuberose from Java and Ceylon the carnation and pink from Italy; and the auricula from Switzerland. The modern taste for flowers, came, it is said, from Persia to Constanti- nople, and was imported thence to. Europe, for the first time, in the sixteenth century. At any rate, we find that the greater part of the productions of our flower gardens were conveyed by that channel.— 2 i 3