INTRODUCTION. xii that he should try what effect it might have upon himself, before he recom- mended it to his family, though he had the misfortune for a while to be deprived of his reason by the experiment. Noah had, doubtless, tasted grapes before, and found them harmless, and it was impossible he should know, until taught by experience, that fermentation gives an inebriating quality to liquors, or would produce a spirit in the juice of the grape, which it did not contain before. Not long after wine, it is probable that beer was discovered, for we are in- formed by Herodotus, that, in the corn provinces of Egypt, where no vines grew, the people drank a sort of wine made of barley. And this seems to be the strong drink* mentioned along with the wine, in many places of the Old Testament. In fine, the different improvements made with respect to the different sorts of aliments used by men at different periods of time, from the Creation to Moses, seem to have preceded nearly in the following manner :—Fruits, seeds, herbs, bread, milk, fish, flesh, wine, ale; to which may be added butter, honey, olive oil, eggs, and cheese. But as aliment came, in the process of time, to be improved to such a high degree, a thorough discussion of which might here occupy too much space, we need merely observe, that as regards cooking, boiling or stewing appears to have been very early adopted by the ancients. Roasting or broiling very soon succeeded; beyond which no improvements in the culinary art appear to have been made for several centuries after. The introduction of trade and commerce soon made us acquainted with the products of other countries; and delicious fruits, and the choicest aromatic spices, which were wafted to us from the remotest regions of the habitable globe, were soon sought after * The invention of an intoxicating liquor from corn has been attributed to the Egyptian deities, Osiris and Isis, who, while on earth, were great benefactors to an industrious and intelligent people. However backward the modern Egyptians may be in agriculture, Osiris collected all information on the subject within his reach, and taught it to his people, who then practised it with effect: and in these labours he was effectually assisted by his wife, and sister Isis, the Ceres of the Romans. The opinion entertained by those of our own times, who have attempted to trace the history of fermented liquors, is, that the Egyptians, not having grapes, possessed no wine ; and that, as their climate required the aid of such a stimulant, Osiris, oue of their princes, invented the art of making wine from corn. There are certainly passages in the ancient writers which seem to countenance this opinion, if not positively to support it. The subject is several times alluded to by Diodorus Seculus. In the first book, he says, that wherever the wine was not found, Osiris taught the people to make a drink from barley ; not much inferior to wine in point of fragrance and efficacy. In the same book, he says, drink, which they call Zythum, is made by the Egyptians from barley, not much exceeded by wine in smell and taste: in the fourth book he again alludes to the subject. Cabinet Cyclopaedia—Domestic Econ. vol. i. p. 13.