FI 118 FI The roe of most fishes is eaten, and that of some constitutes a principal article of natural food. Caviare is the preserved roe of the sturgeon. The melt or soft roe of the herring is eaten by many. The liver of the turbot is very large, and is much esteemed. The enormous vas deferens* of the male cod fried, is one of the best garnishes for that fish; and some of the smaller and more delicate fishes are all eaten with the exception of the head.—See Cod. As far as our knowledge extends of the effect of sex upon fish, the male or melter is preferred, as in the herring and salmon. In spring the male only of the lump fish or cock- paddle is eaten. Later in the year the female is nearly of equal quality. I. Fishes, as regards their classifi- cation, may he divided into three fa- milies, relatively to the situations in which they live; namely, 1. Those which live entirely in salt water, as the cod and herring. 2. Those which live entirely in fresh water, as various species of the cyprinus. 3. Those which live alternately in fresh and salt water, as the salmon and sturgeon. The comparative esculent qualities of each depend upon a great variety of circumstances ; but of the last class it may be remarked, that as they enter the rivers for the purpose of spawning, they are in the greatest perfection when proceeding up the rivers, and are quite out of season when returning to the sea. II. As connected with the time of * A duct which rises from the Epi- didymis, which is a convolution of it, and passes through the inguinal ring, in the spermatic cord, into the cavity of the pelvis, in the human subject, and terminates in the vesiculae seminalis. It conveys the semen, after it is secreted, into the seminal vessels.—New Lond. Med. and Surg. Diet. spawning, the season of the year lias the most decided influence upon the quality of fish, which in general, of every kind, are in better perfection some time previous to their begin- ning to spawn, and are unfit for food for some time after this process of nature has taken place. This cir- cumstance, however, is not sufficient to prevent those who have an easy opportunity from catching and eat- ing fish in this state; and the Legis- lature has found it necessary to fix the periods at which salmon fishing is lawful. When the salmon is in the sea, and about to enter the river for the pur- pose of spawning, it is infested with a parasitical insect, which adheres to every part of the body, but dies and drops off after the fish has been a short time in fresh water. In this state it is in the highest state of per- fection ; the flesh is firm, red, and delicious, their form elegant, and their colours beautiful. On first en- tering the river the silvery colour of the sides of salmon is very slightly marked with spots; but when it has remained long in fresh water, this colour decays, and the spots become much larger, darker coloured, and more obvious. At the time of spawn- ing, the sides of the fish become of a very red colour; and when the spawn- ing season is over, the white colour entirely disappears, the belly becomes livid, and the sides are streaked all over with a sooty or black colour; and in this state the salmon are termed, in the Acts of Parliament, red and black fish. At this time the rays of their fins are jagged or torn, a great part of their scales rubbed off, and their gills infested with para- sitical worms. In Ireland, where there is great freedom used in killing salmon during and after spawning season, the eating of the fish at this time has been often, and in many places, found to be productive of much disease and mortality; and the same is probably