WI 396 WI and where there is not any tendency to inflammation, they prove the most useful and most grateful of all— cordials to the stomach. The number of wines used as me- dicines is not very great; Madeira, port, sherry, hock, claret, and some small French wines. In moderate quantity they are useful towards the end of low fevers, and even of bili- ous ones when the stomach is toler- ably clear; in confluent small-pox, in dysentery, particularly that of camps and ships, which is generally attended with putrid fever. In many nervous complaints; in hooping cough, nothing is better after the first week or fortnight; and in women exhausted with fluor albus or hys- teria. It is one of the best cordial tonics and antispasmodics; excites the action of the heart and arteries ; increases the secretions and excre- tions ; throws out in health what ought to be thrown out, but which by weakness of action is retained; in- creases the secretion of the solids, and thus tends indirectly to the nu- triment of the system. In typhus fever and other diseases, sago, tapioca, arrow-root, and other nutriments, would not sit on the sto- mach without the addition of wine; it stimulates the chyloepretic viscera. It is also a well-founded observation, that those who indulge in the use of wine are less subject to fevers of the malignant and intermittent kind; and delirium, which is the conse- quence of excessive irritability, and a defective state of nervous energy, is often entirely removed by the free use of it. Wine is never proper when there is local inflammation or strong arterial action. Some pecu- liarities of constitution also prevent its use. Thus some have a disposi- tion of stomach with which the least acid disagrees; in such even port will produce heart-burn and spasm of the stomach; here spirits and water must be substituted. Wherever the patient is bilious—in bilious and putrid fevers, acidulated wines are preferable, as hock, the small wines of Languedoc and Burgundy, and claret: the last is the best wine in fevers, to those who are not accus- tomed to wine; but it produces heart-burn in those who are used to port. Good wine, which “ needs no bush,” is an admirable cordial; and when used in moderation, answers many excellent purposes of life and health. Plutarch, in his Life of Caesar, informs us, that when he had taken Gomphi, a town in Thes- saly, by assault, he not only found provisions for his army, but physic also : for there they met with plenty of wine, of which they drank freely. Warmed with this, and inspired by the jolly god, they merrily danced along, and thus shook off the dis- eases contracted by their preceding diet, and changed their whole con- stitution. Wine has been styled the “milk of old age.” Dr. Johnson observed, that it was much easier to be abstinent than temperate,—that no man should habitually take wine as food till he have passed the age of thirty at least. Another writer (see Trotter on Drunicenness, p. 151) says, no man in health can need wine till he arrives at forty ; he may then begin with two glasses in the day: at fifty he may take two more. See also, Inquiry into the Effects of fermented Liquors, by a Water- drinlcer, 18mo. 1820; Lettsom on the Effects of Hard-drinking, &c. The following is Braude’s valuable table of the quantity of spirit in different kinds of wine:— 1. Lissa Propn. of spirit per cent. 26.47 Ditto 24.35 Average 25.41 2. Raisin wine . 26 40 Ditto 25.77 Ditto . 23.20 Average 25.12 3. Marsala 26.30 Ditto 25.05 Average 25.09 •