FE FE 113 measles. Elder wine is made from the berries, in various degrees of strength and richness, according to the caprice or circumstances of the maker, and the quantity of spirit added. ENDIVE.—A species of succory. The largest, tenderest, and whitest leaves of endive are best boiled, being less crude, in that state, to the sto- mach. The curled leaves are more delicate, being eaten alone, or in composition with other salads. The larger leaves are preferred by many to lettuce. ENGLISH WINES. —It is as- serted by Mr. Miller (see Rees'a Cy- clopcedia, art. Wine) that he has made wine from English grapes, as good as any of the best and purest French wines drank either in Paris or Cham- pagne. It is supposed that formerly there were considerable vineyards in England, particularly in Gloucester- shire (see Aikin's England Delineated) And about a century after the acces- sion of William the Norman, there was a vineyard near Pembroke, in Wales. It has been thought pro- bable that the cultivation of the vine was relinquished in consequence of an increased intercourse with France. Notwithstanding the climate, Great Britain has of late years been un- favourable to the production of wines, yet our good housewives continue to make a pleasant vinous beverage from no less than thirty-seven sorts of fruits.—See Domestic Wines. Now will the Corinth, now the rasps supply, Delicious draughts: the quinces now, or plums, Or cherries, or the fair Thisbean fruit, Are pressed to Wines. Besides the orchat, every hedge and bush Affords assistance; e’en afflictive birch, Curs’d by the unlett’red, idle youth, distils A limpid current from her wounded bark, Profuse of nursing sap. When solar beams Parch thirsty human veins, the da- mask’d meads, Unforced, display ten thousand painted flowers Useful in Potables. Thy little sons Permit to range the pastures; gladly they Will mow the cowslip posies, faintly sweet, From whence thou artificial wines shalt drain. Of icy taste, that, in mid fervours, best Slake craving thirst, and mitigate the day. Philips. ENTREES.—Dishes served at the commencement, or during the first course of the dinner. ENTREMETS.—Small ornamen- tal dishes, served in the second and third courses. EXTRACT, BLACK. —See Black Extract. F. FERMENTATION.—Chemically speaking, fermentation is a sponta- neous commotion in a vegetable sub- stance, by which its properties are totally changed. Several circum- stances are essential to the process of fermentation:— 1.—A certain degree of fluidity for instance—dry subtances do not ferment at all. 2.—A certain degree of heat. 3.—The contact of air. There are four distinct kinds of fermentation. 1. The Saccharine. 2. Vinous. 3. Acetous. 4. Putrefactive. The conditions necessary for the spirituous fermentation are :— 1. A saccharine mucilage. 2. A degree of fluidity slightly viscid. l 3