INTRODUCTION. Vlll obscure tradition they had concerning Paradise, or from the supposed integrity of men’s lives while they subsisted in common on what the woods and fields supplied, and while there was yet no property or private interest to raise disputes and animosities, and tempt them to acts of violence and fraud; for such a splendid appellation could not with any propriety be given as regards the comforts and conveniences of life, which have been enjoyed in a much higher degree by succeeding ages, instructed in the knowledge of arts and sciences. After this celebrated epoch, in which, whatever peace the mind might enjoy, the body was but indifferently provided for, and man could just preserve his existence from day to day; the first approach towards a more mild and wholesome diet among the Greeks, and towards a fund of plenty for all seasons of the year, was made by tilling the ground and sowing corn; an invention which, by Hesiod, is ascribed to Ceres (Oper. et dier. lib. 2, lin. 83), by her admonishing the husbandman to pray to Jupiter and to her, before he enters upon his labour, in the season of tillage : “ Pray to celestial Jove, and Ceres chaste.” The Roman poets do her the same honour more expressly :— Prima Ceres unco glebam dimovit aratro, Prima dedit fruges, alimentaque mitia terris.—Ovid. Pliny attributes not only the invention of the plough, but of grinding corn also, and making of bread, to the same goddess; and adds, that divine honours were paid to her in Attica, Italy, and Sicily, on this account. And indeed, if she had any share in such a noble and useful invention, she merited all the reasonable encomia which they could bestow upon her. So grateful were the ancient inhabitants of Italy to their benefactors, that they conferred immortal honours even on Stercutius, the son of Faunus, for his invention of improving land, by spreading dung over it. As regards the other great branch of husbandry, or the management and use of flocks and herds, it is probable that this was recovered in Greece about the same time with agriculture; and that the Arcadian shepherds might teach their skill in pasturage to the other provinces, and from them, in return, learn how to cultivate the land. The decays of nature, in the expiring periods of life, were the only infir- mities to which men were then liable; and though their limbs sometimes failed to perform their offices, their health and appetite continued with them till life was no more. In this rude, but natural state, the food of mankind is said to have continued upwards of two thousand years, during which period the cook and the physician were equally unknown. It is not easy to say at what period man exchanged vegetable for animal diet; but certain it is, that he no sooner began to feed on flesh, fowl, and fish, than seasonings of some kind-became requisite, not only to render such food more pleasing