231 PA PA lour.—The quantity of fluid prepared by the pancreas, does not appear to bear a just proportion to its size. Attempts have been made by Dr. Fordyce, and M. Majendie, to collect the pancreatic liquor, by inserting a quill into the duct in a living dog, although the experiments made by both do not appear to have been very satisfactory. It is the opinion of modern physiologists, that the gastric juice is the agent by which digestion is effected; but they are by no means so unanimous as to the immediate cause of chylification. It is not im- probable that the intestinaljuice takes a principal part in this process, although its qualities have not yet been inquired into; for, indeed, the investigation would be attended with almost inseparable difficulties. Since the bile and pancreatic liquor are poured into the intestines at a small distance from the stomach, it is natural to consider these fluids as useful in effecting the change which the alimentary matter undergoes in the small intestines—namely, its conversion into chyle. The chyme or aliment digested by the stomach, being rancid, the pancreatic juice has been considered as an useful and necessary diluent, and perhaps this fluid may have other properties with which we are unacquainted.—See Abernethy, on the Constitutional Ori- gin and Treatment of Local Diseases, p. 31. PARSLEY, (Apium Petroselinum). —Parsley, as well as smallage, is of a sweet, stimulating, and aromatic nature. The former especially was by the ancient physicians supposed to purify the blood; an effect which modem medical observers would not only doubt but even ridicule. So much, however, is certain, that pars- ley is a mild aperient and diuretic. Yet for these salutary purposes it ought not to be eaten in a raw, but boiled state. It is not a very conve- nient herb in salad; still it is eaten in various ways, and frequently at breakfast on bread and butler. The indigenous spicy and balsamic herbs, as parsley, marjoram, thyme, sage and the like, cannot be too much recommended for culinary purposes, especially in broths; as they are well calculated, by their aromatic virtues, to assist the digestion of many strong articles of food which daily cover our tables; and these excellent herbs are not liable to the adulterations with which most of the foreign spices are contaminated. PARSNEP, (Patinaca Sativa).— Besides their sweet mucilage, pars- neps contain somewhat of the aro- matic principle, being more nourish- ing and less flatulent then carrots. To deprive them entirely of the latter quality, they ought to be boiled in two different waters, but by this pre- caution they partly lose their sweet taste, and become less nourishing. First boiled, it is eaten cold as a winter salad, with oil and vinegar. If not well boiled, parsneps are rather difficult of digestion; they are very nutritious from the quantity of sac- charine matter they contain, and in consequence of which they afford a very pleasant drink called parsnep wine. There are two sorts of pars- neps, the garden and the wild: the former is to be preferred becatise it is thicker, tenderer, and much more agreeable to the taste and smell. PARTRIDGE.—A bird much valued for the goodness of its taste. There are several kinds, which ought to be chosen while they are young, tender, and well fed. The flesh is restorative, strengthening, nutritious and easy of digestion ; but as it becomes old, the flesh is hard, dif- ficult of digestion, and unpleasant to the taste. The red partridge is more esteemed than the other's. It agrees in cold weather with all ages and constitutions; but more especially with persons recovering from sickness and those who are of a cold and phlegmatic temperament. Our partridges are nearly as large