PO PO 253 it then acquires a beautiful perma- nent green colour. M. Pesquier, of Geneva, has ascertained, by some experiments, the presence of sugar in the potatoe, accompanied by a portion of gum. Impressed with the result of his experiments (see Biblio- theque Unioerselle), M. Pesquier is induced to believe that the value of the potatoe, as an object of culture, will be increased by a knowledge of the above fact; and also to think that it is decisive, but opposing evi- dence, to the opinion, that alcohol could be formed by the substances not containing sugar. POTTING.—A mode of preserv- ing animal substances, the process of which consists in reducing cooked animal substances to a pulp, by beat- ing the meat in a mortar, and incor- porating the mass with a portion of salt and spices. The pulp is then put into a jar, and covered with a thick coat of melted butter or lard, to exclude the air. The surface is further protected with a bladder skin tied over the mouth of the jar. The muscular part of meat is best suited for potting, and the quantity of salt and spices employed in the process ought to be in sufficient abundance. Potted Beef, Game, or Poultry.— To three pounds of lean meat, half a pound of common salt, and half an ounce of saltpetre are used; with these ingredients the meat is salted, and left for twelve hours. The meat is then divided into pound pieces, and put into an earthen pan that will just hold it; pour in half a pint of water, cover it close with paste, and set in a very slow oven for four hours. When taken from the oven, pour the gravy from it into a basin ; shred the meat fine, moisten it with gravy poured from the meat, and pound it thoroughly in a marble mortar with fresh butter, till the paste becomes as fine as possible; season it with black pepper and allspice, or cloves pounded, or grated nutmeg; put it in pots, press it down very close; put a weight upon it, and let it stand all night. The fol- lowing day, when it is quite cold, cover it a quarter of an inch thick with clarified butter, and tie it over with paper.—See Lobster, to Pot, fyc. Ham, veal, poultry, game, &c., may all be potted in a similar manner. POULTRY. — Poultry furnishes us with the most valuable aliment, as it has excellent and well-digested fluids, from its more frequent exer- cise and constant residence in the open and pure air. Some animals, when young, have tough and spongy flesh, which is mollified and im- proved by age, and can be eaten only after a certain time, such as eels and carp. Others are hard when young, and must be used early, because that hardness increases with their age; as the haddock and many other species of fish. The flesh of old animals, that have less muscular parts than the young ones of .the same species, is indigestible ; and we may lay it down as a general rule, that the more the flesh of an animal is disposed to putrefaction, the more it is unwholesome. Some parts of fowls are less whole- some than others. The wings of those whose principal exercise is flying, and the legs of those that generally run, are the driest parts of their bodies: hence, the breast is, in all, the softest and most nutritive part. Young poultry is preferable to that of some years old, which has very tough muscles, and is heavier to the stomach. The capon is one of the most delicate dishes; if eaten when young, he yields a strong and good chyle; his flesh is not too heat- ing, nor disposed to putrescency, and the fat itself is easily digested. Tur- keys, as well as guinea or India fowls, yield a strong aliment, but are more difficult of digestion than the capon, particularly the legs, wings, and fat. These birds when roasted, are usually filled with some kind of z