SA 274 SA livid skin, pain and swelling.—{Phil. Trans, vol. ii. p. 758.—Also, vol. lii. p. 529). Tissot, in the Philosophical Transactions, presents a very copious account of the disease in question, and divides it into two forms—the spasmodic and gangrenous. It at- tacked persons of both sexes and all ages, and in some instances only the lower extremities became gangre- nous, while in others the upper and lower were alike affected. — {Phil. 1'ratis. vol. liii. p. 10G). There is some diversity of opinion as to the real nature of the ergot of rye. Decandolle states, that is a parasitic plant; a mushroom of the genus scleroticum. Others assert, that it is a disease of the rye. The analysis ofVauquelin, has not led to a decisive result. s. SABATIERE, or SORBE- TIERE.—A pewter or tin vessel, in which are placed the moulds con- taining the substances to be frozen, SACK {Sec).—A kind of sweet wine, now brought chiefly from the Madeira island, and Palma, one of the Canaries. The first is called Ma- deira sec; the latter, which is the richer and better of the two, Canary or Palm sec. The name sac/c is a corruption of sec, which signifies dry; those wines being made from half dried grapes; hut wine merchants of the present day use the word soft to denote the same quality. The sack of Sliakspeare is believed to have been what is now called sherry. Canary sack is an inferior kind of Madeira. Newmann, Palma sack, G.59 ; Brande, TenerifFe, 19.79; Vi- donia, 19.25, of spirit. 1. Sack Posset. (Sir Fleet- wood Fletcher’s). — It has been shewn, in the course of this work, that good living, and indeed what may be called epicurism, is not con- fined to solids alone; it is, in fine, more exquisitely mixed up for the palate in the fluid form ; for in this shape how many choice products may not be chemically blended, to steep the senses in agreeable obli- vion, or to rouse the brow of care from its loathed melancholy.—See Punch, Swig, Wassail cup or bowl. Sack posset may be variously made: the following is the manner in which the name of Sir Fleetwood Fletcher’s is fabricated:— Prom famed Barbadoes, on the western main, Fetch sugar ounces four; fetch such from Spain, A part: and from the eastern coast, Nutmeg, the glory of an eastern toast; O’er flaming coals let them together heat, Till the all-conquering sack dissolve the sweet. O’er such another fire put eggs just ten, New born from tread of cock and rump of hen : Stir them with steady hand, and con- science pricking. To see the untimely end of ten fine chicken; From shining shelf take down the brazen skillet; A quart of milk from gentle cow will fill it ; When boiled and cold, put milk and sack to eggs, Unite them firmly like the triple leagues; And on the fire let them together dwell. Till Miss sing twice—you must not kiss and tell: Each lad and lass take up a silver spoon, And fall on fiercely, like a starv’d dra- goon. 2. Sack Posset. (Sir Walter Raleigh’s).—Boil a quart of cream with a sufficient quantity of nutmeg; take half a pint of sack, and the same quantity of ale, and boil them well together, adding as much sugar as may be necessary. Heat a pew- ter dish till it becomes very hot,