54 BU BU (by some vulgarly and erroneously called the atch,or H. bone) or chuck bone, buttock, and leg. Besides the quarters, are the bead, tongue, and palate. The entrails are the sweet- breads, kidneys, skirts, and tripe; of which there are the double, the roll, and the red tripe. c. In a Sheep are the head and pluck, which include the liver, lights, heart, sweet-breads, and melt. The fore-quarter contains the neck, breast, and shoulder; and the hind-quarter the leg and loin. The two loins to- gether are called a chine or saddle of mutton, which is a fine piece, when the mutton is small and fat. d. In a Calf, the head and inward entrails are called the pluck (which contains the heart, liver, lights, nut), and melt, and which are called the skirts; the throat, sweet-bread, and the windpipe, sweet-bread, which is the finest. The fore-quarter com- prises the shoulder,neck and breast; and the hind-quarter is the leg, which contains the knuckle and fillet, and loin. e. House Lamb.—In a house lamb are the head and pluck, namely, the liver, lights, heart, nut and melt, and also the fry, which consists of the sweet-breads, lamb-stones, and skirts, with some of the liver. In the fore- quarter, is comprised the shoulder, neck, and breast. The hind-quarter is the leg and loin. This is in high season at Christmas, and lasts all the year. says Ur. K., “seen it spelt Each-bone and Ridge-hone; and we have also heard it called Natch-bone.” In Farley’s Cookery, which, it would appear from the title page, went through twelve edi- tions, if not more, it is also called Isch- bone, which unquestionable is the most proper, for the reasons above assigned. Mrs. Fisher’s ‘ Ach-bone' may have had its origin in the rheumatic affection or ach to which the ischium is subject, call- ed the sciatica in all probability; and which Mrs. Reynolds may have expe- rienced in propria persona.—Ed. /. Grass Lamb.—As above. g. In a Hog, are the head and in- wards, that is, the haslet, which con- sists of the liver, crow, kidney, and skirts; there are also the chitterlings and the guts, which are cleaned for sausages. The fore-quarter is the fore-loin and spring. If it he a large hog, you may cut off a spare-rih. The hind-quarter is only the leg and loin. h. A Bacon Hog is cut differently on account of making hams, bacon, and pickled pork. Here you have fine spare-ribs, chines, griskins, and fat for hog’s-lard. The liver and crow are much admired, fried with bacon, and the fat and ears are equally good soused. BUTTER.—Butter is an unctuous substance, made by agitating the cream of milk in a churn, till the oil separates from the whey or serous parts. Some of our churns are heavy machines, and require great exertions of strength to work them; hut Mr. Townsend observes, that in Spain, the women churn as they walk along, or stand chatting with a neighbour, each with a leathern bag, in which they shake the cream till the butter is completely formed.* In Barbary, butter is made by putting the milk or cream into a goatskin suspended from one side of the tent to the other, and pressing it to and fro in one uniform direction; and in Bengal, butter is easily made by the slight turning of a stick in milk.f The trade in butter in England is very considerable; some compute that 50,000 tons are annually con- sumed in London only, within forty miles round which it is chiefly made. Fifty thousand firkins are said to be sent yearly from Cambridge and Suffolk alone, each firkin containing fifty-six pounds. A considerable part of this vast quantity is however brought from Downham, ten miles * Journey, vol. iv. p. 388. t Shaw’s Travels and Phil. Trans.