160 HE HE others, according to their supply of food. They differ also in smell. Those which live in moist places are not near so good food as those that are bred on plains and mountains, the latter feeding on aromatic herbs that give their flesh a fine flavour. A have is also better in winter than in summer, because the cold mellows their flesh and makes it tender, the same being naturally a little hard and close. It has been said that the frequent eating of hare gives people a fine vermilion complexion, and several parts of this animal were formerly used in physic, which at present are not held in estimation, and which it would be superfluous to refer to. HATELETS, the same as Atte- lets ; i. e. small silver skewers. HEADING STUFF, or Finings. —Alum and green vitriol,equal parts. Used to give the cauliflower head to beer.—See Finings. When malt liquors contain a pro- per degree of viscidity (which a due proportion of malt and a well-con- ducted fermentation never fail to communicate),and when poured from one vessel into another, they always accumulate on their surface a close creamy foam, called a cauliflower head; so that when blown a-side it immediately closes in again. This ought more particularly to be one of the characteristics of good porter. The brewer, however, for reasons best known to himself, does not always give his drink such a body as would enable it spontaneously to carry this close foamy head. When first tapped in the victualler’s cellar it may do so, but when the cask comes to be about half empty, the poverty of the drink becomes appa- rent, and when drawn it no longer discovers this desirable effect. To conceal this defect, the publicans are supplied by itinerant vendors with what is termed “heading stuff,” composed of isinglass in solution with sourish porter, whisked with a twig, until it turns to a froth. A spoonful of this is laid on the sur- face. One method of detecting this arti- ficial heading, is by blowing on it, and separating it on the sm-face, and if it do not immediately close in again the artifice is detected. But in order to defeat this mode of discoveiy, the brewer has devised a process equally as successful, but of a more perni- cious tendency to the constitution of the drinker ; and which, though pro- hibited by law, has long been carried on with equal effrontery and impu- nity ; and this is done by means of green vitriol (see Sulphate of Iron), well known as the general panacea for beer. “ A quantity of this nau- seous styptic, from one to six ounces, is previously dissolved in milk or beer, then mixed up with a solution of isinglass, and thus added to one butt of beer. When by this means it is rendered fine, and drawn, the head, or froth, will rise three or four inches above the pot, and will remain so for a length of time. The popu- lace here fall into the same error as in the choice of their bread—for they prefer none that is not white, nor drink any beer but what when drawn carries a head like a cauliflower; and there are few licensed victuallers who do not understand this method of obliging their customers.” Alum possesses nearly the same property as the green vitriol. Salt of steel (Sulphate of Iron), differs very little from purified green vitriol. Alum consists of a chalky earth' united to vitriolic acid, as copperas or green vitriol does, hence they only differ in their bases as regards their composition ; though the last is in- finitely more nauseous and delete- rious, especially when drank in beer; as here it is not decomposed like alum in bread, before it is taken internally, but every particle of beer is united to a particle of vitriol, and thus it is taken into the stomach in a state of solution in a pure state. Salt