174 IN IN eaters. In short, we have had Eng- lish, Prussian, Bohemian, American, and Brazilian knife-eaters. Many of these wretched individuals have perished shortly after the extraordi- nary feat—some have dragged on a miserable existence for years after- wards—and in some instances they have recovered. If depraved appe- tite should happen, as is sometimes the case, to be combined with vora- city, there may be no bounds to the deglutition, either in quantity or quality. Treatment. — This morbid action of the stomach is best counteracted by emetics and purgatives. Rhubarb is perhaps the best medicine for the last purpose, continued in moderate daily doses, in combination with tonics, as bark, steel, &c. And as an acid has often been suspected as the prevailing cause, the absorbent earths, as chalk, magnesia, and Ar- menian bole, have been used in large quantities, but the relief afforded by them is seldom more than tempo- rary. In the Mai d’estomac, or Afri- can Cachexy, as it has been called, which corresponds with dirt-eating diseases of the negroes, alluded to by John Hunter, it is possible that great acidity may exist, and in- stinctively, for the use of absorbents to allay the morbid impulse. I. IMPERIAL.—A solution of cream of tartar*, flavoured with lemon-peel. It ought never to be used except as a medicine in fevers and inflamma- tory affections. If employed as an ordinary drink, it is apt to retard digestion. If ever used as an article of diet, it should be under circum- stances of robust health, and where a large quantity of animal food has been consumed. INDIAN CORN (Zea Mayo).— In some parts the Indian corn is grown as a garden plant, the ears being gathered green or partially ripe, and boiled or r*oasted. INDIGESTION (Dvspepsia).—• Functional derangement of the di- gestive organs. The causes which give rise to indigestion, are all those which tend to debilitate the system in general or the stomach in parti- cular. For instance, narcotics, as opium taken in immoderate quanti- ties, (see Opium), spirituous liquors, tea, tobacco, the frequent use of warm relaxing liquors — sedentary occupations—imperfect mastication of food—certain depressing passions of the mind—a diet of a too flatu- lent and farinaceous nature; ex- cessive evacuations—the too power- ful operation of emetics and purga- tives—diseases of the liver1—hysteria and hypochondriasis ; over-loading the stomach — excessive venery—• exposure to moist and cold air— deficient secretion of the bile, saliva, gastric juice.—See Digestion. Dr. Gregory, in his Theory and Practice of Physic, observes, “ This ailment is met with in every country, in every class of society, in every season of the year.” The meaning of Dyspepsia, according to its re- stricted signification, is limited to derangement in the functions of the stomach, without any other disease. The inconveniences of this limita- tion are pointed out by Dr. Gregory, and the term is extended to those cases of indigestion which are un- attended with well marked general fever, local inflammation of the sto- mach, or other obvious cognizable disease of a remote organ. Dys- pepsia is further reduced to primary and secondary; and the symptoms common to both are described as follow:— Symptoms of Indigestion.—“The symptoms of dyspepsia are extremely