VE YE 378 Common marigold, Cotton thistle, Dwarf carline thistle, Globe artichoke, Green and French artichoke, Indian cress, Marsh marigold, Small Indian cress, Safflower. The fourth order of vegetables con- sists of all the esculent roots, or such as are used at our tables ; they are either of the mild, or of the astrin- gent and acrid kind. The former are much more nourishing and less flatulent than the latter; which, how- ever, possesses some medicinal pro- perties, such as the various species of radishes, onions, garlic, and the like. Roots are neither so nourish- ing nor so easily digested as animal food. Yet we may consider it as a certain rule that any kind of aliment, for which we feel a natural and per- manent appetite, is conformable to our nature. Of this kind is that beneficial root the potatoe, which in the most simple preparation, and without any addition, affords an agreeable and wholesome food to almost every person, and particu- larly to children. It is one of the highest alimentary substances, occa- sioning neither viscidity nor flatu- lence, and can be hurtful only when immoderately taken. But being a dry vegetable and containing many earthy particles, it requires a proper quantity of drink to prevent obstruc- tions. Its excellent nourishment is sufficiently obvious in the healthiness of those country people, whose prin- cipal food is potatoes, as well as in animals that are fattened upon these roots.—See Potatoes—Roots. The fifth and last order of vegetable substances comprehends the fruit, or productions of the different trees and shrubs.—See Fruit. VENISON.—The flesh of deer, game, or beasts of chase. The flesh of the deer kind, as the buck, the doe, the hart, the hind*, and also that of hares, contains much good nuti'i- ment; but to the injury of health, these animals are generally eaten when half putrified, though they are naturally much disposed to putres- cency. When properly dressed, they afford a mellow food, and are readily assimilated to our fluids. But as wild animals, from their con- stant motion and exercise, acquire a drier sort of flesh than that of the tame, it should never he boiled, hut always ought to be roasted or stewed. From the same cause, the fluids of wild animals are'more heating, and more apt to putrify, than those of the domestic kind. Persons, there- fore, who are pre-disposed to scurvy or other putrid diseases, should not eat much game, especially in sum- mer. This pernicious tendency of game may be corrected by the addi- tion of vinegar, acid of lemons, or wine; salad also is very proper to be eaten with it. Those parts of wild animals which have the least motion, are the most juicy and palatable : the back for instance, is the best part of a hare. Venison that is well fed, and killed at a proper season, is con- sidered not only the most wholesome of that kind of flesh, but also the most delicious. It is more tender than mutton, and much easier of digestion. The fat is a great deli- cacy, and very much esteemed by the veritable epicure.—SeeFood, Animal, Varieties of. VERDIGRIS, (RZrugo ter is).— An impure subacetate of copper. It is prepared by stratifying copper- plates with the husks of grapes, after the expression of their juice, and when they have been kept for some time imperfectly exposed to * The term venison is also applied to the flesh of beasts of game — that is, animals that are caught by way of hunt- ing. Huntsmen have agreed that every beast of the forest that is food for man, as bears, hares, &c., is venison.