FR FR 138 the foregoing fruits, and is less apt to pass into a state of noxious fer- mentation, hut its texture is firmer, and on that account is retained longer in the stomach, and often proves indigestible. The same ob- servations apply to pears, except that their texture being in general less firm, they are less objectionable.— See Pears. The orange, when perfectly ripe, may be allowed to the most fasti- dious dyspeptic; but the white or inner skin should he scrupulously rejected, for it is not less indigestible than leather.—See Orange. The small-seeded fruits are by far the most wholesome; of these the ripe strawberry and raspberry de- serve the first rank. The grape is also cooling and antiseptic, but the husks and seeds should be refused. The gooseberry is less wholesome, on account of the indigestibility of the skin, which is too frequently swallowed. The fruits to be classed under the head of small berries, are the cranberry, the bilberry, and the red whortleberry. These are seldom eaten unless when baked, and in that state, their ascisency seldom proves injurious. The farinaceous fruits ai-e univer- sally unwholesome. The melon, which is the principal one, is very apt to disagree with weak stomachs, and should never be eaten after din- ner without a plentiful supply of salt and pepper.—See Melon. The most proper times for indulg- ing in fruit, appear to be the morn- ing and evening ; on some occasions it may be taken with advantage at breakfast, or three hours before din- ner ; and it forms a light and agree- able repast if taken an hour before bed time, but these regulations are to be influenced by circumstances which no general rules can possibly supply. By cookery, fruits, otherwise un- wholesome, may be converted into a convenient and useful aliment. Apples and pears, when baked, af- ford a pleasant meal, and from their laxative properties, are well adapted to certain cases of indigestion. Fruit- pies, if the pastry be entirely re- jected, may be considered valuable articles of diet. Dried fruits are by no means so useful or safe as is ge- nerally imagined. The quantity of sugar which enters into their compo- sition disposes them to fermentation. FRUITS.—When in Season. January. Nuts, Pears, Services. February. Grapes, Pears. March. Apples, Pears, Strawberries, forced. April. Apples, Pears. Cherries, forced. Apricots for tarts. May. Apples, Gooseberries, Apricots, green, Melons, Cherries, Pears, Currants, for tarts, Strawberries. June. Apples, Melons, Apricots, Nectarines, Cherries, Peaches, Currants, Pears, Gooseberries, Pine Apples, Grapes, Strawberries. Apples, Apricots, July. Peaches, Pears, Cherries, Pine Apples, Gooseberries, Plums, Melons, Raspberries, Nectarines, Strawberries. Apples, August. Mulberries, Cherries, Nectarines, Currants, Peaches, Figs, Pears, Pine Apples, Filberts, Gooseberries, Plums, Grapes, Strawberries. Melons, September. Currants, Melons, Filberts, Pears, Grapes, Peaches, Almonds, Apples, Grapes, Medlars, Apples,