190 MA MA LOBSTERS, to Pot.—Take the meat and eggs from the shell; sea- son them with powdered mace, cloves, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and anchovy- liquor. Pound the meat in a marble mortar, and reduce the liquor, hy evaporation, to a thick jelly; then put it and the meat together, with about one quarter of its weight of butter; mix altogether, and press it into a small pot; cover it with melted butter. When it is cold, put paper over the pots, and set them in a dry place. Craw-fish, shrimps, crabs, and prawns, may be potted in the same way. LYMPH.—The liquid contained in the lymphatic vessels.—(See Lym- phatics). The solid part of the lymph, which may be called clot, has con- siderable analogy with that of the blood. It becomes scarlet red in contact with oxygen gas, and purple when plunged in carbonic acid. The specific gravity of lymph is to that of distilled water as 1022.28:1000.00. Clievreuil, a French chemist, ana- lysed the lymph of the found it to contain :— dog, and Water 926.4 Fibrine 004.2 Albumen 61.0 Muriate of soda . . . 1.1 Carbonate of soda . 1.8 Phosphate of lime Phosphate of magnesia j Carbonate of lime j - 0.5 Total . . 1000.0 Tlie quantity of lymph in the human body appears to be very great, as the system of the lymphatic vessels forms no small part of it. Its constituent principles appear to be albuminous, water, and a little salt. The lymphatic vessels absorb this fluid from the cellular membrane of the whole body, from all the vis- cera, and the cavities of the viscera or bowels, and convey it to the tho- racic duct (see Thoracic Duct), to be mixed with the chyle (see Chyle), and ultimately to be converted with the latter into blood, for the support of the animal economy; its use being the superfluous nutritious jelly from every part of the body, to be con- verted, by the means already stated, into the nature of the animal; and, lastly, the lymph has mixed with it the superfluous, aqueous vapour, which is effused into the cavities of the cranium, thorax, abdomen, &c. LYMPHATICS. — The name of the absorbent vessels, carrying a transparent fluid, termed lmyph, into the thoracic duct from every part of the body. The lymphatic vessels of the human body are small and trans- parent, and originate in part of the system. With the lacteal vessels (see Lacteals) of the intestines, they form what is anatomically termed the absorbent system; and they ter- minate in the thoracic duct. Their office is to take up, or suck in, sub- stances applied to their mouths: for instance, the vapour of circumscribed cavities, and of the cells of the cellu- lar membrane, are removed by the lymphatics of those parts. And in this manner mercury, and other sub- stances are conveyed into the system when rubbed on the skin. M. MACCARONI.—Maccaroni and vermicelli are made of starch beat up with yolks of eggs and dried. These, as well as the different dishes made of flour mixed up with paste, and either boiled in water or stewed in butter, are all calculated for pa- tients and convalescents, to whom they are frequently administered. A paste when it is so inelastic that it can be formed into balls, is extremely difficult to be digested. All unfer- mented pastry is excessively trying to the stomach; and instead of being