WA 388 WA solubility of the water he uses, we ought, where necessary, to deprive it of its pernicious qualities, and this can he done by boiling and filtering, but most effectually by distillation. The putrid substances in the water may be corrected by the addition of an acid. Thus half an ounce of alum in powder will make twelve gallons of corrupted water pure and trans- parent in two hours, without impart- ing any sensible degree of astringen- cy. By the addition of a very small quantity of quick lime, water may be preserved from corruption in long voyages; or, to prevent water from putrescence at sea, add a small quan- tity of alkali and vitriolic acid to every cask, which will preserve it pure and wholesome for a twelve- month. Charcoal powder has also been found to be excellently adapted to check the putrid tendency of water, and for this reason the staves of the casks used on shipboard ought to be well burnt in the inside, to keep the water from corruption. Vinegar, or other strong acids, are also well cal- culated to correct putrid water, and may be either mixed with it, or drank immediately after, to prevent its bad effects. Water being one of those sub- stances without which mankind can- not exist, is, it is generally known, apt to become putrid, and to con- tract, in consequence of this occur- rence, qualities which render its use unsafe. This circumstance is the more particularly embarassingduring sea voyages, and it deserves no less consideration in those districts where the inhabitants are often obliged to make use of stagnant water, or of such as, from its hepatic taste and smell, is very disagreeable. It would be useless here to enumerate the various disorders occasioned by the use of such waters; but it is, un- doubtedly, an object of great im- portance, to make known the means by which the putrefaction of water may be prevented, and by which that water, in which putrefaction has already taken place, may be rendered perfectly sweet. It has been found by repeated experiments on the purifying powers of charcoal, that amongst other pro- perties, it possesses that of almost instantly depriving the most putrid water of its bad smell. From this circumstance it was suggested, that the same substance might have a very powerful effect in preventing water from becoming putrid, which it was afterwards actually found to do. WATER, &C. TO PRESERVE PURE. —Pure water, properly so called, when deprived of all heterogeneous parts, is not subject to become putrid, but it is very difficult to keep it long in a pure state, on account of its dissolving powers. To preserve water for any length of time in that state, it would be necessary to keep it in a vessel of glass, or of earthenware; but the brittleness of these vessels renders it impossible to make use of very large ones, and we are obliged to have recourse to wooden vessels, which, though they are not subject to be broken, like the others, have the great disadvantage of imparting to the water a large quantity of mu- cilaginous and extractive particles, which hasten its putrefaction. It is well known that these particles, in a state of division, furnish an innume- rable quantity of living creatures, the almost perpetual destruction and regeneration of which communicate to water that degree of corruption and putrefaction, which renders its use so dangerous. It is not, there- fore, from the water itself, but from the continual decomposition of the substances dissolved in it, that its disposition to putrefaction arises. From what has been said, then, it evidently appears that the first means of preserving from putrefaction water which we ar-e obliged to keep in wooden vessels, or casks, consists in having these reservoirs perfectly clean. The smallest quantity of