ST ST 311 of your stomach,’ by satisfying the appetite: but all that is mere non- sense.”—Abernethy. As regards the physiology or func- tions of the stomach, the late John Hunter was the first man who broached those opinions which are generally accredited, or have not, till very lately, been disputed, which is, that digestion depends upon the suf- ficient quantity of the liquid which the stomach secretes of the gastric juice, and that this liquor has the property of rendering any nutritive matter solid, so that it should not pass through the pylorus until it had undergone the solution by the gastric fluid. If the white of an egg be given to a hungry dog, in a few minutes it will be as hard as if it had been boiled for hours. The juice of the stomach instantly curdles milk. Take the gastric juice out of the stomach of a calf just born, and it has most curious properties; the little there is of that liquid they dry, then dissolve it, and then curdle gallons of milk with it. Then as the fluid of the stomach has the power of dis- solving that which is nutritive, the question is, why does it not dissolve itself, it is flesh ? But it is the life of the stomach that preserves it from this action. There is no chemical agent will act upon it. Worms live in the stomach, and yet there is no doubt but that a meal of dead worms would form a very nutritive repast for a dog. But does the gastric fluid ever dissolve the stomach in which it is secreted? We are told it does: for instance, if a man eat a hearty meal, and is suddenly afterwards killed by a blow on the head, as has often occurred, it will be observed that the gastric fluid is acting not on the food, but on the stomach; that it makes a-hole in the stomach, and that food gets through that hole into the belly. Various stomachs have been examined after death, having these appearances. — See Gastric Juice, Indigestion. STOMACH, DERANGED.—The bad effects that may arise from an ac- cumulation of noxious matter in the stomach and the first passages, are to be obviated, generally, by the prudent administration of emetics and purgatives, abstaining at the same time from aliment likely to produce them. For example, crude vegetables, milk, butter, and other oily substances, are to be avoided by persons troubled with sourness in the stomach; brisk exercise, especially riding on horse-back, is to be used ; and abstinence from all fermented liquors. Their common drink should be pure water, or water with a little rum or brandy in it. The Seltzer or Pynnont waters are to be drunk me- dicinally; and aromatic bitters, in- fusions, or tinctures, acidulated with sulphuric acid, to strengthen the fibres of the stomach, and promote the expulsion of its contents, after they have been sufficiently long re- tained, e. g. Take Wine of iron . . 1 oz. Infusion of gentian . 6 oz. Tincture of cascarilla 4 drs. Make a mixture, and take two table spoonsful twice or three times a day; preceded by some antacid ape- rient medicine.—See Antacids. In order to procure relief, magne- sia or prepared chalk may be used, made into lozenges with a little sugar and mucilage; and in this form may be conveniently carried about in the pocket, and taken occasionally by persons troubled with heartburn, and acidities in the stomach.—(See Heart- burn). In persons where there is a redundance and stagnation of bile, and an unpleasant bitterness in the mouth, the bowels should be kept freely open by taking occasionally small doses (from five to fifteen grains) of pure aloes, castor oil, cream of tartar, and the like. When there is a tendency to empyreumatic rancid accumulation in the stomach, all the various kinds of oily and high seasoned articles of diet, generally