370 YE YE The increase of vegetable food is also the more necessary, if the appe- tite be naturally keen and healthy, as a more strongly nourishing ali- ment would at this time expose to all the effects of putrescency, which the increase of the vegetable diet will on the contrary counteract. The habits of life must also regulate a good deal the proportion of vege- table nourishment: an essential cir- cumstance in the use of all diet, is the production of such a distension of the stomach and bowels, as may enable them to act properly on their contents. In the sedentary and in- active, it is particularly desirable that this distension should be produced by food of a less nourishing kind; and that no more nourishment be received than the wants of the system require. Hence in these cases, a vegetable diet is to be preferred, while in the active and laborious the plan should be reversed. It is a fact sufficiently established, that the proportion of vegetable food, should in a great measure be regu- lated by the climate; as there is little doubt, that the mortality of warm climates is aggravated by the too abundant use of animal food; and that a diet of a vegetable and asces- cent nature, with a large proportion of condiment, such as we find used by the inhabitants of those countries, is best suited for the preservation of health; for, by this excess of con- diment, the morbid effects on the stomach and bowels natural to vege- table food, are counteracted, and the chyle formed from them passes into the circulation in a proper state for supporting the body in such a situa- tion. On the other hand, in a colder region, a permanence of nourishment is required, which animal food parti- cularly conveys; and as this nourish- ment is less apt to disorder the stomach or bowels, no great portion of condiment is necessary, either as a stimulus to the organ, or in order to avoid any hurtful consequences that may arise. The proportion therefore of vegetable food is clearly pointed out to be small, and chiefly of the farinaceous, or least ascescent kind. The state also in which vege- table food is used, is of equal im- portance with the proportion of it taken; thus vegetable food particu- larly requires to be used in a fresh state—for, by being kept, many kinds of vegetables lose their pe- culiar flavour, taste, and smell, in consequence of which they become indigestible. This particularly is the case with the pulses, herbs, and roots. VEGETABLES, CULINARY.— Though under this head no arrange- ment can be absolutely perfect, from the circumstance of some of the plants being used for different pur- poses, it will answer our object in the present instance, to give an alpha- betical catalogue, and refer the reader to the individual under its proper head. 1. Acetarious Plants or Salads— comprehending all small salads, e.g. American cress, winter cress, dande- lion, celery, lettuce, endive, succory, mustard, corn-salad, rape, garden cress, water cress, brook-lime, scurvy grass, garden rocket, burnet, buck- thorn plantain (see Plantain), ox- eye-daisy, and others, as sorrel, sarragon, Indian cress, &c. 2. Alliaceous Plants, correspond- ing with the onion, leek, chives, gar- lick, shalot, and rocambole. 3. Asparaginous Plants, including asparagus, sea-kale, artichoke, car- doon, rampion,' alexanders, hop, bladder-campion, cotton thistle, and milk thistle. 4. Cabbage Tribe. — The white and red cabbage, cabbage-col ewort, savoy, Brussels sprouts, borecoles, or winter greens, cauliflowers, and brocolis. 5. Fungi, British, edible.—Com- prehending the dulse, tangle, &c. 6. Fungi, British, edible.—Includ- ing the mushroom, truffle and morel.