INTRODUCTION. xvi considerable attention, his book being the result of his own experience, and because he proves that man, by studying himself, and possessing strength of mind enough to place himself above the seductions of pleasure, only to follow the laws of reason and necessity, may bring his constitution to perfection, and renovate his organs weakened by intemperance. He also teaches us in that with which we are but little acquainted—namely, the difference there is between the measure of want, and that of pleasure—how much we are the dupes of our own sensations; above all, since the art of disguising the gifts of nature has created artificial wants and factitious appetites: and he has called by the name of hunger, every sensation that is not clogged with satiety. To be brief, the history of Cornaro, may be placed among the number of beautiful experiments which have been made, with a view to ascertain the purity of health through the medium of diet: and as such, it has most contributed to establish the principles, and to assist in the progress, of the art. A Jesuit, Leonard Lessius, who lived toward the end of the sixteenth century, previous to the death of Cornaro, struck with the force and beauty of his example, wrote a work on the same subject, which he concludes with a list of all the men known, whose temperate life led them beyond the ordinary limits of human life. This work is called Hygiasticon, seu vera ratio 1aletudinis bonce. One Thomas Philologus of Ravenna, also, after the example of Cornaro, had equally written a treatise, entitled De Vita Ultra annos centum et Vigintipropaganda; Venice. 1553. He notices a period when, at Venice, he saw several of its senators, who had attained the age of one hundred years, shew themselves in public, surrounded and caressed with those marks of respect and veneration due to their patriarchal ages, their dignities and distinguished virtues; and he traces to debauchery and intem- perance the rarity of similar instances of health and longevity. Philologus was the first who declaimed against churchyards, for the interment of dead bodies, in towns. Cardan also wrote four books on the preservation of health. In the three first, he treats of aliments; in the fourth, of old age : the example of Cornaro is the object of his admiration, and the basis of his precepts; he censures Galen, and brings forward as a proof of the justness of his reproaches, that this celebrated physician died himself at the age of seventy-five. Another proof of the correctness of his extraordinary mind, is that where he condemns exercise as prejudicial to health; and that by com- paring the longevity of trees to the ordinary duration of animal life, he j attributes the long life of the first to their want of motion. Among the productions of this period, must not be over-looked the six j books of Jerome Mercurialis*, on Gymnastics. The three first treat of the j * It is eloquently insisted upon by Mercurialis, that gluttony is the peculiar cause of every disease ; and this opinion is not only confirmed but insisted upon by . I