TA TA 324 containing tannin in cases of debility, and at the same time to prescribe gelatinous food as nutritious, which is evidently improper, as the tannin from its chemical properties, must render the gelatine indigestible. TART All.—A vegetable produc- tion, which forms itself on the sides of casks in which new wine is put. It is of a solid consistency, and is thence called by the Germans Wein- stein, or wine-stone: when burned to ashes, this substance yields a pure vegetable fixed alkali, called salt of tartar. The reader is desired to distinguish between cream of tartar and salt of tartar; they are both salts, but not of the same class. Cream of tartar is an acid, and is prepared from tartar by dissolving it in water, and crystallizing the solution. The sweet wines afford less tartar than the sharp ones, and it is also less valuable. The tartar of Rhenish wine is better than any other, and, in general, those wines which have the most acidity in them yield the most tartar, and that in the largest crystals. Tartar is white or red, according to the colour of the wine from which it is produced. That brought from Germany is the best. Salt of tartar is an alkali, and is pre- pared from tartar by burning it, the acid being probably changed into an alkali by the fire. Salt of tartar, as well as all other vegetable fixed alkalies, when pure (for, when puri- fied, they are all the same) attract very strongly the humidity of the air, and thereby melt, as it were, into a fluid, which, from its being pro- cured in this singular way, and from its having also an unctuous appear- ance, though it has no other property of an oil, has been called oil of tar- tar per diliquium.—See Wines. TARTAR, CREAM OF.—Cream of tartar is reputed a great sweetener of the blood, for which some take it in whey or water gruel, or combined with rhubarb or jalap, in the spring time. Alone it is purgative, from two drachms to half an ounce. It forms an agreeable cooling drink, sweetened to the taste. In large doses it acts as a hydragogue cathartic, producing a considerable discharge of serous fluid into the intestines; hence its use in dropsical complaints. Often repeated, however, it is liable to occasion debility of the digestive organs. As it decomposes the car- bonate of potass, the cream of these salts will afford a very pleasant pur- gative draught. TASTE.—The principal organ of taste is the tongue; and the nearer the top the more acute—the nearer the root the more obtuse. Nothing can be tasted which is not capable of being tasted by the saliva. Neither is it sufficient for a body to be solu- ble that may be tasted; it must have some saline or acrid property, in order to stimulate the nervous sub- stance of the tongue—lienee, what- ever has less salt in it than the saliva, is totally insipid. The taste is rarely found to be too acute, unless through some fault in the epidermis covering the tongue. When this is wounded, or removed, or diseased, then the taste, becoming too acute, is painful, &c. The sense of taste may be im- paired, like that of any other exter- nal sense, from various diseases of the brain and nerves; of which, how- ever, there are but few instances. In some people it is more blunted, as well as more acute than in others; and where the sense of taste is defi- cient, that of smelling is also. It is sometimes deficient owing to the want of saliva; for a dry tongue can- not perceive any taste: hence this sense is very dull in many diseases especially in fevers, &c. It is also frequently depraved; as when, for instance, we have a perception of taste without the application of any thing to the tongue; or, when any thing is applied to it, we feel a taste different from what it ought to be. This happens, for the most part, from a vitiated condition of the saliva, which is itself tasted in the mouth. Independent of this, the taste may