LE LE 185 had laid down, in 1814, several thousand feet of leaden pipes, to con- vey water to the different houses. In the following year the lead colic occurred in those houses to which the water was distributed, and all doubt as to the existence of the poison in it was removed by the exa- mination of Dr. Lambe and Mr. Brande. They detected the carbo- nate in a very minute state in the water. — Brande’s Journal, vol. 14, p. 352. Carbonate of lead is inso- luble in aerated water. It is diffused through it in a very minute state of division, and is very long in sub- siding.—Ibid. vol. 14, p. 240. A case somewhat similar to the above is given of the officers on board a packet bound to the East Indies. They put their allowance of water in a leaden cistern, furnished with a stop-cock, and in about three weeks every one of them was affected with all the symptoms of Devonshire colic, in the most violent degree. These facts prove that water resting in leaden reservoirs, cisterns, or pipes, may become impregnated with it. And there is danger to be ap- prehended from its use, if the quan- tity suspended be sufficiently large. The exemption occasionally expe- rienced is to be attributed to the want of the last; and also to the circumstances that some kinds of water are unable to dissolve or sus- pend the lead. In the Thames water, though it flows in leaden pipes, no lead can be detected in it; and this may be explained by the fact, that the ani- mal matters which constantly accu- mulate in it, prevent any dissolution or suspension of the metal. They combine with it, and form a bulky insoluble precipitate. “ If you add nitrate of lead to Thames water, you will find that it becomes milky, and that a white powder falls to the bot- tom, which dissolves without effer- vescence in nitric acid. It is, there- fore, a combination of oxide of lead with some animal matter. Thus it is that the impurity of the Thames water prevents it from containing lead. Probably hard waters, con- taining sulphate of lime in solution, may also be free from lead. But with these exceptions, we may lay it down as a general fact, that all waters which pass through leaden pipes contain small particles of car- bonate of lead.”—Dr. T. Thompson. Edin. Med. Surg. Journal, vol. 3, p. 423.—See Copper, Culinary Poisons, Sec. LEGUMES, (see.Pease).—“Point de legumes point de cuisiniere,” is a famous French culinary adage; and deserves to be so. A better soup may be made with a couple of pounds of meat, and plenty of vege- tables, than our common cooks will make with four times that quantity of meat; all for want of knowing the uses of soup-roots, and sweet and savoury herbs. LEEKS (Porrum).—The leek is difficult of digestion, and causes fla- tulency. It is of a hot nature, and agrees best in cold weather with aged people of a phlegmatic temperament, and such as are of a gross habit of body, and do not take sufficient exer- cise. Those are best which grow in moist, fat, and marshy ground. Leeks are abundantly sown in kitchen gardens; and are more used for food than physic. Most authors who have written on the leek, make it appear to be rather a pernicious vegetable; still, though much used among us, we do not find that it produces all the ill effects attributed to it. It is true it is somewhat hard of digestion; and at other times pro- motes flatulency, from the viscous and gluey phlegm contained in them ; they ought, consequently, to be always well boiled before they are eaten. Leeks are diuretic, lithontriptic, deobstruent, emmenagogue, aphro- disical, and detersive, according to the ancient writers; and externally applied (the boiled pulpy part) pro-*