206 ME ME some fat, and plenty of gravy, sliould be given with them. Currant jelly should always be on the table, for those who choose it.—See Butchers' Meat. MEDLARS.—There is a strong resemblance between medlars and sorb apples; they ripen in the same manner, and possess the same pro- perties. Medlars, however, are more astringent than sorbs, and the riper they are the more this astringency diminishes. The leaves and flowers of medlars are also astringent, and are used in decoction as gargles, in disorders of the throat. Eaten to excess, medlars do not easily digest; they encumber the stomach, and re- tard the digestion of other aliments. In winter they agree with young people of a bilious constitution, and with such as have a weak stomach. They are reputed by the older writers to prevent intoxication, check vomit- ing, and diarrhoea. They are also reputed good for diminishing and expelling urinary calculi. Those that are full, ripe, large, and pulpy, have the most sweet and agreeable taste; consequently are the best. MELONS.—A species of cucum- ber, though melons are more aro- matic, and, in this respect, more wholesome. Water melons, how- ever, require more spice and wine than musk melons, as they partake still more of the nature of cucumbers. Melons, eaten after supper, are said to have caused the indigestion that proved fatal to George I., who ex- pired in his carriage, on the 21st of June, 1727, O.S. at a short distance from Osnaburgh, in Germany. There is a great variety of this fruit culti- vated in different parts of the world, but that sort called the Canteloupe melon, so called from a place near Rome, whither it was brought from Armenia, a country west of the Cas- pian Sea, in Asia, is in the greatest esteem among the curious. “The watermelon,” (C. citrul~ lus), says Dr. Shaw, “is, doubtless providentially calculated for the southern countries, and affords a cool, refreshing juice, assuages thirst, mitigates feverish disorders, and compensates thereby, in no small degree, for the excessive heat. In Moldavia, a district in Turkey in Europe, the abundance of melons, and the fruit of the strawberry-tree, make up for the scarcity of good water. Melons are sometimes car- ried to very distant places. Sir John Chardin ate, at Surat, melons that had been sent from Agra. The best, he says, grow in Korassan, near Little Tartary, whence they are car- ried to Ispahan, for the king, and to make presents of.—(See Harmer's Observ. vol. iii, p. 181). And Mr. Coxe (Trav. vol. i, p. 255) says that a small sort of melon, of exquisite flavour, is sent from Astracan to Moscow, a distance of a thousand miles. The fruit is large, green ex- ternally, white fleshed, reddish to- wards the centre, succulent and re- freshing, but not high-flavoured. It is generally considered as the melon of the Jews, mentioned in various parts of the Bible. M E T H E G LIN.—A species of mead, prepared from honey boiled with water, and fermented; and one of the most pleasant and general drinks that the northern parts of Eu- rope produce, and much used among the ancient inhabitants. “The juice of bees, not Bacchus, here behold, Which British bards were wont to quaff of old; The berries of the grape with Furies swell, But in the honey-comb the Graces dwell.” From the custom of drinking a beverage made with honey, for a thirty days’ feast after a wedding, comes the expression honey-moon, a phrase derived from the Teutones, an ancient people who inhabited the northern parts of Germany, not to