DI DI 93 ; much eaten in Syria, Egypt, and the i, East Indies. They never become r sweet in those parts of Spain that i border on the sea, but retain an un- i pleasant and harsh taste. It is said that both bread and wine have been ! made from dates. They contain i much oil, phlegm, and essential salt. DEER.—See Venison. DIET.—Food; provisions for sa- tisfying hunger. A regular course of food or regimen. To eat accord- ing to the rides of medical writers. So much does health depend upon [ temperance and simplicity of diet, that were more attention directed to the due cultivation of these subjects, ' fewer of those diseases which are the i scourge of the human race, as well as the opprobria medicorum, would be i seen or felt in society. To derive the greatest possible benefit from these two paramount considerations, it ought to be the study of all who value their health, to combine sim- plicity with temperance in the se- lection, preparation, and use of the various articles of food, animal and vegetable, which the bountiful hand of Providence has so profusely scat- tered over the face of the earth for the support of both man and beast. By simplicity in the choice and pre- paration of our alimentary materials, the appetite is not unnaturally pro- voked to consume more than the system requires for its proper sus- tenance ; indigestion, the bug-bear of modem empiricism, is prevented, and the general health more securely and uniformly maintained. Tem- perance in diet, in its turn, supplies, in a great measure, the place of exercise, where opportunities for the latter may be wanting, an essential at all times indispensable to the pre- servation of sound wind and limbs. Independent then of its conservative qualities, temperance may be prac- tised by all classes and conditions, at any time, place, or season. It is, indeed, a kind of regimen, upon which any individual may place him- self without interruption to business, unnecessary expense, or loss of time. And as the rational subjugation of the passions strengthens the mind, so temperance in diet renders the body less subject to such turbulent emotions. These observations are applicable, not only to individuals who are naturally of a hot constitu- tion, but even to those who control their appetites; because moderation is a great means of tranquillizing the mind. Feeble individuals ought to eat little at a time and often, of some light nourishing food: the number of their meals should correspond with their want of strength; for it is less injurious to a debilitated per- son to eat a few mouthfuls every hour, than to make two or three hearty meals in one day. This ob- servation, however, is liable to ex- ceptions, as regards those who have habitually weak stomachs. There is no instance on record of any person having injured his health or life by drinking water with his meals; but wine, beer, and spirits have produced a much greater number and diver- sity of patients than would fill all the hospitals in the world. Such are the effects of intemperance in diet, particularly in the abuse of drink; for neither beer, wine, nor spirits, when properly brewed and distilled, and not sophisticated afterwards, are of themselves injurious, if used with moderation, and in a proper habit of body. It is a vulgar prejudice that water disagrees with many constitu- tions, and does not promote digestion so well as wine, beer, or spirits: on the contrary, water, pure water, on the experience and authority of some of the longest livers, is preferable to all brewed and distilled liquors, both in giving tone and activity to the organs of digestion, and preventing complaints which have their origin in acrimony and fullness of the blood. It is an observation equally im-