PE 235 PE sold ground, is very apt to be sophis- ticated ; the black, with burnt crust of bread, and other materials; the white with beaten rice. Long pepper is thus denominated from its form, which is cylindrical, about an inch and a half in length, and of the thickness of a large goose quill. It is of the same genus as the black pepper, but is hotter and more pun- gent: its chief use is in medicine, where it enters several prescriptions. Guinea pepper is a native of both the Indies, and raised in some of our gardens. It is of a red colour, and of an extremely pungent and acri- monious taste. It is sometimes given in small quantities, as one of the highest stimulants; but its prin- cipal use is at table. (See Capsi- cum). A species of this pepper is the basis of the powder brought from the West Indies under the name of Cayenne. Jamaica pepper is the fruit of a tree growing plentifully in Jamaica, and other West India islands. It is a real aromatic, and may supply the defect of cloves, nut- megs, and cinnamon; whence it is called by the English, allspice, and sometimes pimento. This pepper is accounted the best and most tempe- rate, mild, and innocent of common spices; promoting digestion, and strengthening the stomach.—See Cubebs, 8fc. The different species of pepper, being very heating and stimulating, ought to be used sparingly and with precaution; yet their peculiar warm- ing and stomachic virtues make them an excellent spice, and proper to be used with fat, tough, and smoked meat, with flatulent vegetables, with cucumbers and melons, as well as with fish, and other substances diffi- cult of digestion. For these pur- poses pepper ought to be coarsely ground. If taken in whole grains, it imparts to the stomach only a small part of its virtues, and cannot be re- duced in digestion. In this form it is an old and effectual domestic re- medy of the Germans, against visci- dity in the stomach, flatulency, weak digestion, and consequent giddiness. With this intention, from six to ten grains should be swallowed in the morning on an empty stomach. Yet this is not advisable, unless to stomachs vitiated or long accustom- ed to the use of spices and spirituous liquors, with which aromatics may serve as a substitute for drams. Pepper forms the basis of Ward’s celebrated paste for fistula, namely, black pepper, two drachms; elecam- pane and fennel seed, of each half an ounce ; mixed up with honey, so as to form an electuary, of which a teaspoonful is ordered to be taken two or three times a day. Pepper being of universal use to correct the cooler herbs, and such as abound in moisture, is an ingredient never to be omitted in salads, pro- vided it be not minutely ground, in which state it is very pernicious, and frequently adheres and sticks in the folds of the mucous lining of the stomach; when, instead of acting as a corrector, it often causes the heartburn, and, consequently, as al- ready observed, it should be but coarsely bruised. PERRY.—The juice of pears ex- tracted and fermented. In colour and taste it resembles white wine. Bitterish and hard pears are the best for this purpose. It possesses nearly the same properties as cider. PERSPIRATION.—The vapour secreted by the extremities of the cutaneous arteries from the external surface of the body. It is distin- guished into sensible and insensible. The former is separated in the form of «n invisible vapour, the latter so as to be visible in the form of very little drops adhering to the epider- mis. The secretory organ is com- posed of the extremities of the cutaneous arteries. The smell of the perspirable fluid in a healthy man, is fatuous and animal; its taste ma- nifestly salt and ammoniacal. In