FE FE 114 3. A degree of heat between 35 and 65 of Fahrenheit. 4. A large mass in which a rapid commotion may be excited. When these four conditions are combined, the spirituous fermenta- tion takes place, and is known by the following characteristic pheno- mena:— a. An intestine commotion takes place. b. The hulk of the mixture thus becomes augmented. c. The transparency of the fluids is diminished by opaque fila- ments. cl. Heat is generated. e. The solid parts mixed with the liquor, rise, and float, in con- sequence of the derangement of elastic fluid. /. A large quantity of carbonic acid gas is disengaged in bubbles. All these phenomena gradually cease in proportion as the liquor loses its sweat and mild taste, and it becomes brisk, penetrating, and ca- pable of intoxication. In this man- ner, wine, beer, cyder, &c., are made. All bodies which have undergone the spirituous fermentation, are capable of passing into the acid fermenta- tion; but, although it is probable that the acid fermentation never takes place before the body has gone through the spirituous or saccharine, yet, the duration of the first is fre- quently so short and imperceptible, that it cannot be ascertained. Be- sides the bodies which are proper for spirituous fermentation, this class includes all kinds of faecula boiled in water. The only substance known to be subject to the fermentative process is starch, e. g.—When gelatinous starch, or amidine, is kept in a moist state for a considerable length of time, a change gradually ensues, and a quantity of sugar equal to about half the weight of the starch, is gene- rated. The germination of seeds, as exemplified in the malting of barley, is likewise an instance of the sac- charine fermentation; and the ripen- ing of fruits has also been regarded as an example of it; especially since some fruits, such as the pear and apple, if gathered before their matu- rity, become sweeter by keeping. The opinion, however, of Proust, is, that the process of ripening appears to consist in the conversion, not of starch, but of acid, into sugar. The conditions requisite for esta- blishing the VINOUS FERMENTATION, are four in number—namely, 1. The presence of sugar. 2. Water. 3. Yeast. 4. A certain temperature. The best mode of studying this process, so as to observe the pheno- mena, and determine the nature of the change, is to place five parts of sugar, with about twenty of water, in a glass flask, furnished with a bent tube, the extremity of which opens under an inverted jar full of water and mercury; and after adding a little yeast, to expose the mixture to a temperature of about 60° or 70Q F. in a short time bubbles of gas begin to collect in the vicinity of the yeast, and the liquid is put into a brisk motion, in consequence of the for- mation and distension of a large quantity of gaseous matter ; the so- lution becomes turbid, its tempera- ture rises, and froth collects upon its surface. After continuing for a few days, the evolution of gas begins to abate, and at length ceases altoge- ther; the impurities gradually sub- side, and leave the liquor clear and transparent. The only appreciable changes found to have taken place during the above process, are the disappearance of the sugar and the formation of alcohol, which remains in the flask, and of carbonic acid gas, which is collected in the pneumatic apparatus. The conditions requisite for the the acetous fermentation are:—