TR TU 360 what like that of horse-radish. By distillation with water they impreg- nate the fluid in a considerable de- gree with the smell and flavour of the plant. Hence the antiscorbutic character of the nasturtium seems to be well founded, at least, at far as may he judged from its sensible qua- lities : consequently, in all those cases where the warm and antiscorbutic vegetables are recommended, this plant may he occasionally adopted as a pleasant and effectual variety. Persons to whom the nauseous taste of scurvy grass is intolerable, may find a grateful substitute in the nas- turtium. The flowers are frequently used in salad, and the capsules are by many esteemed as a pickle. The flowers in the warm summer months, about the time of sunset, have been observed to emit sparks like those of the electrical kind. TROPIIIS AMERICANA.—Red- fruited Bucephalon. The fruit of the plant is a rough red berry, eaten in Jamaica, though not very pleasant. TROUT.*—A well known delicious fresh water fish, and used at the daintiest tables ; it is covered with small scales, usually streaked with red according to the line:— Purpureisque solar stellatis tergora guttis. The river trout comes into season in April, and continues till July. Those caught near Uxbridge come to Lon- don quite alive. The salmon trout is more valued for the delicacy of its flavour than any other species. In summer the trout is more delicions than at any other time. There are several sorts of trout, which differ ac- cording to the places they inhabit, both in colour and magnitude; some * The etymology of trout is thus given by Lemery, a French writer on foods. “ A trout, in latin, is called trutta, a trudendo, quasi trusilis ; being so much as to say, forcing its way, because it many times swims against the current of the water, and forces the waves strangely.” are found in deep and rapid rivers, others in lakes; some are of a black- ish colour, others redish or rather of a gold colour, which made it be called in latin auratce. The trout supplies good chyle, digests easily, and possesses aphro- disiac properties; but it easily cor- rupts and becomes putrid, conse- quently should be eaten as soon as possible after it is taken out of the water. It contains much oil, volatile salt, and phlegm. In summer time it agrees with any age or constitution. There is another kind of trout, rather different from the others of the same species, which in Latin is called thy- m alius, or thyme arbore, because it smells like thyme; it is delicious eat- ing, easy of digestion, has good juice, and so nutritiously wholesome that it is frequently allowed to the sick. In shape it resembles the common trout, and equally lives in clear and running waters; it feeds also on the same food, and in some places is more valued, from the goodness of its taste, than the other sorts of trout, Its fat is said to possess the following medicinal properties, namely, to re- move the prints of the small-pox, deafness, and “drummings of the ear, specks and catarrhs of the eye.” —See Salmo. TRUFFLES.—The truffle of the mushroom, is a species of fungus common in France and Italy, growing generally about eight or ten inches below the surface of the ground. As it imparts a most delicious flavour it is much used in cookery. When dug out of the earth, it requires a great deal of washing and picking before it can be applied to culinary purposes. When washed, the water should be warm, and frequently changed. Truffles lose much of their flavour when dried.—See Mushroom. TUBEROSE.—Tuberous: Knob- bed ; applied to parts of plants. The root so called is of many kinds. The most genuiilt consists of fleshy knobs, various in form, connected by com-