PA PA 232 as a pigeon, and in some places larger. Strabo (lib. xv.) says, that Porus king of India, made a present to Augustus, of a partridge that was larger than a vulture. And red ones in the isle of Chio, have been men- tioned as large as hens. White partridges are found in several places, in the alps, mountains ofSwitzerland, and Tyrol; as also ash-coloured ones and others of different hues in various other parts; and all very well tasted. They usually live to the age of fifteen or eighteen years; and, according to Aristotle, some live so long as twenty-five years. They cannot raise themselves high from the earth, being a heavy bird, but they fly with much force and activity. PASSER.—In the culinary art, to fry lightly. PASTES, FRUIT.—Fruit pastes, jams, and marmalades, are composi- tions of the pulpy matter of recent fruits, or other vegetable substances, so combined into a mass with sugar, as will cause them to suffer as little alteration as possible in their native properties. These comfitures are, therefore, in reality, solid extracts of the pulpy matter of fruit conserved by means of sugar. The evapora- tion of the mass is most conveniently performed in broad hollow vessels ; and the larger the surface of the vessel, the sooner will the aqueous parts exhale. When the pulpy mat- ter begins to grow thick, great care is necessary to prevent its burning. This accident is almost unavoidable if the quantity be large, and the fire ap- plied as usual, under the pan; it may, however, be effectually prevented by pouring the mass, when it has acquired the consistence of syrup, into shallow earthen pans,and placing them in an oven, with its door open, moderately heated; which, acting uniformly on every part of the liquid, will soon reduce it to any degree of consistence required. And this may also be more securely done by set- ting the evaporating vessels in boil- ing water; though this is rather a tedious method. The application of steam to what is called a preserving pan, is the best contrivance for pre- paring jams, fruit pastes, and all other culinary preparations which are liable to get injured by any de- gree of heat exceeding that of boiling water. To make Apricot Paste.—Take ripe apricots, boil them till quite soft, mash them, and rub the mass through a splinter sieve; put the pulp into a pan, and to every pound put half a pound of powdered loaf sugar; set it again on the fire to simmer, till the paste drops off easily from the spoon, then take it from the fire and pour it on a slab. N. B. Peach, quince, plum, cherry, and black-currant paste, &c., may be prepared in the same manner. 2. Almond Paste.'—Sweet almonds decorticated, one pound; bitter al- monds, the same, half an ounce; sugar, one pound; orange flower water, a sufficient quantity; beat to a paste stiff enough not to stick to your fingers. 3. Almond Paste for Orgeat.—Boil the almonds in water until the skin parts easily—strain, throw the al- monds into cold water, blanch them, and dry, either in the sun or stove, till they are brittle. To each half pound of blanched almonds, add as much Italian melon seed, steep in cold water, four pints, for five or six hours; strain off the water, except about four or five ounces, reduce them to a fine paste, adding pow- dered sugar, l^lb. This paste may be dried in a stove, that it may be kept for some time.—See Almonds. PASTE, THICKENING.—It is customary in the culinary regions to thicken some dishes, broths, soups, gravies, &c., with a compound of two parts of flour, and one of butter, first made into a paste, by beating slowly the ingredients in a pan, till the mass acquires a yellow gold colour, the flour and butter being stirred all