YA 401 YA trating parts of the water by steam, and causes a more equal distribution of them throughout the body of the mash, by a due confinement of the heat; and being swelled and satu- rated to its utmost distension, returns the overplus liquor charged with the sweet, balsamic, nutritive part of its flour; and so continues to give out the same in regular tincture, by the several lodgings over, or washings, that leisurely follow, and are con- stantly discharged by the cock with- out stopping, till the proper quantity is got off in a fine transparent stream. It would appear that neither cold nor boiling water will produce a good solution of saccharine matter from malt; cold water takes up little or none of the sugary principle of malt, and forms a spiritless and ascescent drink; boiling water forms a mucilaginous fluid, which, what- ever it may contain, cannot be drawn off from the grains, consequently it is lost. But water at a medium temperature acquires a full sweet- ness, and readily parts with the undissolved matter: though water of a high temperature (much under the boiling point) will dissolve or form a greater quantity of saccharine matter from the malt, it is, never- theless, uneconomical; for the malt in such cases is usually a little set; and there is a loss of the liquor, because it is held involved in the pastry grains; the second mashing may lessen the loss, but will not compensate the deficiency. It is plain, therefore, that the first mash- ing should be made with warm water; the second with hot water and the third with still hotter; for in each succeeding mash, there is less risk of the malt setting, as the starchy matter has been removed. “ In se- lecting a proper temperature for the water-, the regulation of our choice will depend upon two qualities of it; namely, its sufficiency to extract the saccharine matter,, and its insuffi- ciency to set the goods. Both these points require attention for the at- tainment of the greatest quantity, as well as the best quality of the produce.—150° can never hurt malt of any kind, or under any circum- stances of fineness of the yeast, or temperature of the air, or slackness of drying: for pale malt that has been dried, (provided the atmos- pher-e does not exceed 50°), the heat of the first mash maybe 170°; of the second 180°; and for the third, the heat may be, and never ought to exceed, 185°.”—Town and Country Brewery Book, 1831. The medicinal properties of wort are aperient, and antiscorbutic. From one to four pints daily have gene- rally been directed. The proportion recommended in preparing it, is one measure of ground malt, to three equal measures of boiling water. The mixture must be well stirred, and left to stand covered three or four hours. It should be made fresh every day. The goodness of malt may be proved by the wort, in the following manner:—When a person uses more than one sort of malt, he may prove the goodness of it by the wort, by weighing a quart of the latter of each brewing, and that which is heaviest is best. Y. YAMS.—(Dioscorea Alata*).—A bitants of the West India islands, root of a farinaceous and wholesome and is of great use to them in vic- nature, much cultivated by the inha- bulbifera, and sativa. They grow spon- * The name of the plant which affords taneously in both Indies, and their roots this esculent root, which, however, is are promiscuously eaten, as the potatoe obtained from their species—the alata, is with us.