GE 145 GE diminish a Louis d’or. And it is not many years ago that the handles of several clasp-knives were found half digested, and the blades blunted, in the stomach and intestines of a man who had some time before swal- lowed these articles out of hardi- hood, and who ultimately died in one of the London hospitals. A con- vincing proof of the power of the gastric juice to dissolve substances out of the body, as well as of its great antiseptic property, has lately been recorded.—See Phil. Trans. GELATINE. — A substance so- luble in water, but not in alcoh-il; capable of assuming a well-known elastic or tremulous consistence, by cooling, when the water is not too abundant, and liquifiable again, by increasing its temperature. By the last property it is strikingly distin- guished from albumen, which be- comes consistent by heat. It is pre- cipitated in an insoluble form by tannin; and it is this action of tan- nin on gelatine that is the founda- tion of the art of tanning.* Gelatine exists abundantly in many of the solid parts of the animal body, espe- cially in the skin, cartilages, tendons, membranes, and bones. It is distin- guished from all other animal prin- ciples by its ready solubility in boiling water, and by the solution forming a bulky, semi-transparent, tremulous jelly as it cools. Its tendency to gelatinize is such, that one part of the gelatine, dissolved in 100 parts of water-, becomes solid on cooling. This jelly is a hydrate of gelatine, and contains so much water that by a gentle heat it readily liquifies. On expelling the water by a gentle heat, a brittle mass is left, which retains • Gelatine is insoluble in alcohol, but is dissolved readily by most of the diluted acids, which form an excellent solvent for it, also by the liquid alka- lies ; and the solution is not precipitated by the acids. The best precipitate for it is tannin.—Henry's Chemistry. its solubility in hot water, and may be preserved for any length of time. Jelly, on the contrary, soon becomes acid by keeping. According to Ber- zelius, gelatine is not contained in any of the healthy animal fluids; and Dr. Bostoek, with respect to the blood, has demonstrated the accuracy of this statement. The common gela- tine of commerce is the well-known cement, called glue, which is pre- pared by boiling cuttings of parch- ment, or the skins, ears, and hoofs of animals, and evaporating the so- lution. Isinglass, the purest variety of gelatine, is prepared from the sounds of the fish of the genus aci- pencer, especially from the sturgeon. The animal jelly of the confectioners is made from the feet of calves, the tendinous and ligamentous parts of which yield a large quantity of gela- tine. Jelly is also found in vege- tables, in ripe currants, and other ben-ies, mixed with an acid. In a pure state jellies have scarcely any smell or remarkable taste. By dis- tillation they afford an insipid and inodorous phlegm, which easily pu- trefies. A stronger heat causes them to swell up, become black, and emit a foetid odour, accompanied with white acrid fumes. The gelatinous substances of va- rious animals are prepared for the use of sea-faring people, under the name of portable-soup. The whole art of performing this operation consists in boiling the meat, and taking the scum off in the usual manner, until the soup possesses the requisite fla- vour. It is then suffered to cool, in order that the fat may be separated. It is afterwards mixed with five or six whites of eggs, and slightly boil- ed. This operation serves to clarify the liquid by the removal of opaque particles, which unite with the white of egg at the time it becomes solid by the heat, and are consequently removed along with it. The liquor is then to be strained through flannel, and evaporated in the water-bath, to o