MA MA 195 be taken in moderation, the gentle excitement it communicates to the nerves will give strength to the body, and rouse the mind to vigorous activity; it will impart health to the blood, and give to the skin all the freshness of youth. In weak and emaciated constitutions, provided there exist no organic affections, the stomach and bowels not deranged, nor the mind fretful, it will often, when taken in small quantities, pro- duce both strength and plumpness. Such are the effects of mere malt spirit, without the addition of hops, or the presence of acid, which will be immediately considered. The following results of experi- ments made by Mr. Brande, will enable our readers to judge of the quantities of spirit contained in the different sorts of malt liquors. In Burton ale, he found almost nine parts in the hundred to be spirit; in Dorchester ale, about the same; in brown stout, a little less; in Edin- burgh ale, about six or seven parts in the hundred; in London porter, about four or five; and in small beer, only from one to two parts of spirit in the hundred. It hence appears, that Burton and Dorchester ales are by far the strongest in spirit, and that, therefore, they ought to be used in small quantities, and with much caution, while London porter and beer, (so far as the spirit contained in them may be concerned), may be drank in almost any quantity, with- out much risk or injury. The hops, which form a principal ingredient in malt liquor, from their strong narcotic quality, tend in some measure, it may be presumed, to allay and keep in check the hilarity of the mind produced by the malt- spirit.—(See Hops.) So far, then, our health is in little danger from these ingredients (malt and hops); but it is not so with other accidental, as well as intentional principles; by the first, or accidental, is meant the acid which is always more or less present in all malt liquors, and con- stitutes the tart flavour called hard- ness. This acid is not an addition of fraud or adulteration, but arises dur- ing the fermenting process. When taken into the stomach, it has the effect of leaven; a small portion leavens the whole mass of food and drink in the stomach, and makes it sour, and consequently produces heart-burn, vitiated bile, nausea, headach, and either constipation or a too relaxed state of the bowels, ac- cording to circumstances, the quan- tity consumed, and the strength of the constitution to resist it. It is this acid which is the chief cause of gout, rheumatism, gravel, stone, &c. To avoid these, all malt liquors should be drank as mild as possible, when the deleterious acid is in small quantity. A few grains of the carbon- ate of soda will correct this acidity; and where any of the consequences arise, some alkaline purge may be taken, as the best remedy. Capsicum and grains of paradise are used to give a pungent taste to weak beer; but, to avoid detection, the brewers mostly use the concen- trated tinctures; and ginger, cori- ander seed, and orange peel, are used to flavour it: besides these, opium, cocculus Indicus, nux vo- mica, tobacco, and extract of poppies, are used to increase the intoxicating qualities. Quassia is employed, in- stead of hops, as a bitter; but as this does not precipitate the mucilage, the beer soon grows muddy, unless kept very cool. Mild, or new beer, is made to taste like stale, by adding a little oil of vitriol, or some alum; and, on the other hand, stale or sourish beer is made to resemble mild, by neutralising the acid by means of oyster shells, chalk, and other alkalious substances. The presence of the sulphate of iron (see Iron, Sulphate of) may be detected in malt liquor, by a strong solution of galls (see Galls), which, dropped into the suspected article will turn it of a black colour, and afterwards deposit a black sediment