DO DO 101 tutional Origin, tyc., of Local Disease, p. 27. DOMESTIC WINES.—Our do- mestic wines, commonly called sweet, or made wines, are chiefly made from raisins or dried grapes of Spain or Portugal. Francis Chamberlayne first made the attempt in 1633, and obtained a patent of fourteen years, in which it is alleged, that his wines would keep good during several years, and even in a voyage under the very line.—(See Rymer's Fccderd). The art of making wine was very successfully reviewed several years ago, by Mr. Beaufoy, and the foreign wines most admirably mimicked. Such is the prodigality and luxury of the age. that the demand for many sorts exceeds, in a great degree, the produce of the native vineyards. We have the most skilful and ingenious fabricators, who kindly supply our wants. It has been estimated, that half the port, and five-sixths of the white wines consumed in the capi- tal, have been the produce of home wine presses. The genial and fertile banks of the Thames, yield almost every species of white wine; and, by a wondrous magic, the late Mr. Beaufoy poured forth the materials for the rich Frontignac, to the more elegant tables; the Madeira, the Calcavella, and the Lisbon, into eveiy part of the kingdom. “ There is in this city,” (London), observes a cer- tain chemist, who has written exten- sively on adulterations, “ a certain fraternity of chemical operators, who work underground in holes, caverns, and dark retirements, to conceal their mysteries from the eyes and observation of mankind. These subterraneous philosophers are daily employed in the transmutation of liquors, and by the power of magical drugs and incantations, raising under the streets of London the choicest products of the hills and valleys of France, they can squeeze claret out of the sloe, and draw champagne from an apple; an art which Virgil seems to have had in view in that remarkable prophecy, “ Incuhisque rubens pendebit sentibus uva.”—Eclog. iv. 29. “ The ripening grape shall bang on every thorn.” Dryden. See Wine. DOREZ.—To wash poultry, &c., with yolk of egg well beaten. DORURE.—Yolks of eggs wrell beaten. DRINK.—Drinks may he divided into common water, vegetable infu- sions, and decoctions; fermented li- quors, animal fluids, animal infusions, and decoctions. The vegetables em- ployed for infusions and decoctions, as drink, are chiefly tea, coffee, choco- late, and some other herbs, as sage, mint, halm, &c., fermented and dis- tilled liquors, &c. which see. Among the animal substances may he enu- merated various soups, as beef-tea, veal, mutton, and chicken broths. —See Broths. As regards the property and quan- tity of dr-ink, it is more necessary to the support of animal life than eating; since drink is indispensably necessary to the solution and digestion of food. Those who drink too little, for in- stance, people of sedentary habits, and particularly women, are subject to complaints of indigestion. Suffi- cient drink prevents the blood from becoming thick, and also the smaller vessels from becoming obstructed; it dilutes the acrid particles of the blood generated in it; and it pro- motes the necessary secretions, such as the bile and gastric juice. People ought to drink only when they are thirsty, and to desist when that thirst is quenched; though this is seldom the case, because many of our liquoi-s stimulate the palate. Pure water, therefore, is an inestimable beverage, as it will not induce us to drink more than is necessary. The fluid aliment should he in greater proportion than the solid; since the quantity of our fluids far exceeds