MI MI 209 water forms the greatest proportion, it is then easily digested, but less nourishing. This is particularly the case with asses milk, which more than any other affects the urine and stool, while it has a tendency to purify the blood. On account of the warmth, and the mechanical process of the diges- tive organ, joined to the chemical properties of the acid generated in it, milk necessarily coagulates in every stomach. The caseous part is dissolved, and diluted by the ad- mixture of the disgestive liquors, and thus prepared for being changed into a pure chyle or milky fluid. Indeed, it makes but very little difference, whether we take cream, cheese, and whey in succession, or whether we consume them united in the mass of the milk: in the former case, the separation takes place without, and in the latter within the stomach. It is, however, improper to eat acid substances together with milk, as this mass would occassion fermen- tation and corruption ; while on the contrary, the natural coagulation is only a separation of the constituent parts, not a transition of this mild fluid into the stage of acid fermen- tation ; for this is prevented by the saponaceous digestive liquors, though the milk itself be coagulated. Y et milk is not a proper food for the debili- tated in all cases; nay, indeed, under certain circumstances, it may even be hurtful. For instance, it does not agree with hypochondriacs, as it occasions cramp of the stomach, cholic, heart- burn and diarrhoea. It disagrees also with the plethoric, the phleg- matic, and the corpulent; but par- ticularly with tipplers, or those ad- dicted to strong spirits. The buty- raceous and caseous parts may ob- struct digestion and oppress the sto- mach. And some milk is unfit for use, on account of the chemical decomposition which has taken place in its constituent parts, and because it can hardly be digested by the most powerful stomachs : even sweet milk ought not to be eaten together with flesh, and in most cases the whey is preferable to the milk:. With these exceptions, milk may be pronounced an excellent species of diet, which does not require strong digestive organs, unless a variety of other sub- stances be eaten with it. On the contrary, persons much reduced in bodily vigour have received benefit, and in a great measure been cured, by a milk diet alone. We daily observe children at the breast, with the natural disposition to acidity and viscosity, feel its bad effects only, when, together with milk, they are fed upon cakes, pastry, gingerbread, and other trash. Milk being free from all acrimony, produces whole- some, light, and sweet blood. Sugar and salt are almost the only proper spices to be added to it. The following are the principal products and preparations of milk in dietetic and medicinal use: e. g. Butter, Cream, Cheese, Curds,—which see. Butter-milk is a species of whey, but contains a great number of butyraceous particles. If it be drunk while new and sweet, it is refreshing and cooling. The Persians, and other inhabi- tants of the East, prepare a kind of wine from milk, which possesses all the properties of intoxicating liquors; although it is suspected that they make some addition to the sweet whey, after the caseous parts are separated from it, by which they induce a vinous fermentation. Whether they add honey, sugar, or any mucila- ginous vegetable, containing the saccharine principle, we shall not attempt to decide; but it is well known, that the Chinese ferment and distil a liquor from a mixture of rice and veal, which is not unpleasant when new. MILLET.—Hirse or Millet, is inferior to either oats or barley; it possesses too crude a mucilage to t 3