xm INTRODUCTION. with fondness and avidity. Cookery, confectionery, pickling, preserving, and drysalting, soon became arts, which were as methodically studied as the more polite sciences. These first inventions were quickly followed by more refined preparations, according as sensuality became awakened, or as want compelled to propor- tion the resistance of the aliments to the already weakened and diminished activity of the organs. It is thus that Hippocrates, with a learned and exact hand, points out to us, in his Treatise on primitive medicine, the history of the successive perfections with regard to food, and shews us man, instructed as much by pain as pleasure, to choose, prepare, and metamorphose, the sub- stances which serve him for nourishment: thus discovering by his own expe- rience, the first elements of health and medicine. For by admitting, with Moses, the hereditary weakness of the bodies of men by the abuse of enjoy- ments, it is conceived that a nourishment, salutary at first, becomes after- wards too gross for enervated organs : it is then that the sense of the evil finds out the measure and modifications of the regimen ; consequently, says Hippo- crates, “ you find neither measure, balance, nor calculation to ivhich you can more safely apply, than to the very sensations which the body experiences What becomes now of our modern system-mongers, and diet inventors ? If these sensations had been sufficient for tbe establishment of dietetic rules, there had been no necessity for the interference of art. Since, on the authority just quoted, where none are ignorant, and all instructed, either through custom or want, the title of artist can be applied to no one. Nevertheless, the wants, errors, and infirmities of men increasing, and tradition growing insufficient to collect and hand them down, art has formed itself and become necessary. Hippocrates, in proof of his reality, quotes the example of the gymnastic physicians, who every day, he says, make fresh observations upon the meats and drinks which are capable of affording more strength and vigour to the body. The study of diet, even before the time of Hippocrates, had been carried to a great extent; for Herodotus observes of the Egyptians, that having remarked that the greatest number of diseases proceeded from the abuse of food, they took care every month to consecrate three successive days to make themselves vomit, and cleanse themselves with clysters, to pursue and seize health,- (Euterp. sect. 77. Edit. Glasgow). This custom of emetics was used among the Romans, rather as a means of favouring gluttony than to preserve health; and it appears in several passages of Hippocrates,* that during his time, the Greeks occasionally resorted to mild means, in order to * Hippocrates, the great father of physic, says, “ Health depends chiefly on the choice of food,” and that “ the physicians before his time were to be blamed, for not prescribing rules of dietand “ that he who would skilfully treat the subject of aliment, must consider the nature of man, the nature of aliments, and the con- stitution of the person who takes them.”