DI 100 DI applied to those multitudes of ima- ginary nervous and sick people, who aegrotise by the very means of health, who ruin their constitution by physic, and throw themselves into the arms of death by striving to avoid it—“ a method not only dangerous, but be- low the practice and dignity of a rational being. To consult the pre- servation of life, as the only end of it; to make our health our business; to engage in no action that is no part of a regimen or course of physic, are purposes so abject, mean, and unworthy of human nature, that a generous soul would rather die than submit to them. Besides, that a con- tinual anxiety for life vitiates and corrodes all its enjoyments, and casts a melancholy and lugubrious gloom over the whole face of nature; as it is impossible we should take pleasure or delight in any thing we are every moment afraid of losing.”—Addison. By these observations, it is not meant to attach blame to any one for taking a proper care of his health—a bless- ing much sooner lost than recovered; on the contrary, “ a cheerfulness of mind and capacity for business, are in a great measure the effects of a well- tempered constitution ; a man cannot take too much pains to cultivate and preserve it; that this care which we are prompted to, not only by com- mon sense, but by duty and instinct, should never engage us in groundless fears, melancholy apprehensions, and imaginary evils, which are natural to every man who is more anxious to live than to know how to live. In short the preservation of life shouldbe only a secondary consideration, and the observation of it our principal aim. If we have this franie of mind, we shall take the best means to pre- serve life, without being ovei'solicitous about the event; and shall arrive at that point of felicity which Martial has mentioned as the perfection of hap- piness—namely, that of neither fear- ing nor wishing for death.”—(Ibid). To conclude, rules of health, univer- sally applicable to the state of every individual, are not discoverable in nature; nor can they be derived from any experimental knowledge we pos- sess of corporeal objects. The best general precept is, for every one to study himself, and his own particular constitution, in order that he may choose and regulate his life accord- ingly ; and that he may make his own experience his guide, most suit- able to it, bis mode of life, and par- ticular circumstances. DIGESTION.— The fluid and solid parts of the body are continu- ally wasting, it is therefore necessary that they should have a constant supply. For this purpose all ani- mals are provided with powers for taking in food and digesting it. Sub- stances fitted for food are such as contain either oily, gelatinous, or saccharine parts. Animal matters are chiefly furnished with the two former, and vegetable with the two latter. Some animals appear de- signed to live upon animal food only; others upon vegetable; and others again upon both animal and vege- table, promiscuously. Of the latter class is man. All solid foods undergo the pro- cess of mastication, or chewing, be- fore they are swallowed. In this act they are cut down by the teeth, and mixed with the saliva. (See Saliva). In the operation of chewing, these are pressed upon by the muscles of the jaw, and made to discharge their contents more plentifully than at other times. The food thus fitted for swallowing, is thrown by the action of the tongue and other muscles, into the gullet, or oesophagus, a muscu- lar tube, leading from the mouth to the stomach. The contraction of the gullet propels the food into the sto- mach, which, in man, is single. (See Stomach). The food remains some time in the stomach, where it un- dergoes further changes, proceeding partly from the heat of the place, partly from the pressure of the mus- cular coat of the stomach, and partly from the mixture of the gastric juice.