BU BU 56 becomes opaque, and is firmer and a little paler than the butter before it was clarified. It will keep a consi- derable time without salt; but if it be salted, as common butter, it will con- tinue sweet much longer in hot cli- mates than if it had been cured in its original state. The natives of Hindustan never use butter, but pre- fer what is called ghee, because it keeps better, and has more taste and smell. Their butter is prepared from coagulated acid milk; and in order to collect a sufficient quantity, it is often kept two or three days, by which time it is highly rancid; it is melted in an earthen pot, and boiled till all the water be evaporated. After it is taken from the fire, a little co- agulated acid milk and salt, or betel- leaf and reddle, are added. It is kept in pots, and eaten when even a year old. The two frequent use of butter relaxes and debilitates the stomach, takes away the appetite, provokes nausea, and heats much, especially if it be old (Lemerg); though, for the most part, when moderately used, it agrees with any age or constitution, though those who have weak sto- machs should use it abstemiously, as well as those of a hot and bilious constitution. Its good effects are nourishing and pectoral; it opens the body,and is of a dissolving and di- gesting nature. Butter is copiously used, and there is hardly any sauce made without it. The northen peo- ple use it very extensively, and con- sequently it is said that it is butter that makes them look so fresh and healthy. It contains much oil, and a little volatile salt. BUTTER MILK.—This is milk which has been deprived of its oily matter, by churning or agitation. If made of sweet cream it is a deli- cious and most wholesome food; those who can relish sour butter-milk find it still more light; and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive cases. If not very sour, it is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweet- ened with white sugar, and mixed with a very little milk. It does like- wise equally for cakes and rice pud- dings: consequently, it is economi- cal to churn before the cream is too stale for any thing but to feed pigs. BUTTER -VEGETABL E.— Mungo Park, the celebrated African traveller, says, that the fruit of the shea-tree affords a vegetable butter, which, besides the advantage of its keeping the whole year without salt, is whiter, firmer, and, to his palate, of a richer flavour than the best but- ter he had ever tasted, made from cows’ milk. These trees grow in great abundance in the kingdom of Bam- barra, on the banks of the river Niger. Its fruit, from whose kernel, boiled in water, the butter is prepared, has somewhat the appearance of a Spanish olive. M. Chevreul subjected the butter of cows’ milk to examination, and found that 100 parts of fresh butter consist of Pine Butter . . 83.75 Butter Milk . . 16.25 From numerous experiments he con- cludes, that there exists in the oil of butter at least two fluid substances, one of which is soluble in all propor- tions of cold alcohol. It does not possess acrid properties, and gives, by saponification, some sweet chemical principle, — butiric, caproic, capi'ic, margaric, and oleic acids. M. Chev- reul has given this oil the name of butyrine, because it contains the bu- tiric acid (or its properties) to which butter owes its odour. The other fluid substance has the properties of the oleic.—Annales de Chimie et de Physique. BUTYRINE.—Butter differs from the common animal fats, in containing a peculiar oleaginous matter, which is quite fluid at 703 Fahrenheit; and to which M. Chevreul has applied the name of butyrine. When converted into soap, it yields, in addition to the usual products, three volatile odori- ferous compounds; namely, the bu- tyric, caproic, and capric acids.