TR 355 TR is a good rule to proportion it to the exercise of the mind and body, re- membering that the exercise of the mind always requires one-third or fourth more than the exercise of the body. If the person under training, therefore, be of a thinking, contem- plative turn of mind, he will require eight hours sleep; while a person of a light, stupid, or thoughtless turn will be as much refreshed by six, though the bodily exercise of both is the same. A great deal also depends on the habit of the person; though we should say nine hours is too much and four hours too little for any one in training. It is indispensable to go to bed not later than ten, and rise not later than six, taking a short walk, or some slight exercise, pre- viously to lying down. The bed should not be soft (a hair mattrass is best) nor loaded with bed-clothes, as the more coolly you lie, the less strength you will lose. As an indispensable supplement to the rules and directions just laid down in this article on gymnastic training, for exercise and sleep, we shall now advert to the qualities of the air, and the kind of dress most proper for promoting strength; since, without attention to these, what has already been said might prove alto- gether abortive, and go for nothing. It may be possible to live for some days without food ; but it is impos- sible to live many minutes without air. Since air, therefore, is so neces- sary for living at all, good air must be highly requisite for those who wish to improve their strength. We shall see shortly how the air acts in purifying the blood, carrying off its refuse, and brightening its colour from a blackish purple to a bright crimson. This purification is per- formed in the lungs; every breath which we draw, and a purified stream of blood, is, at the same time, sent to every part of the body, to supply nourishment, and repair its waste, wear and tear. Now it must be plain, if the air breathed be already loaded with smoke, and foul exhala- tions from the dirty alleys and lanes of a city, that it cannot render the blood so bright a crimson as if it were free from all impurity. This, therefore, teaches us what is also well known from experience, that the impure air of cities is unfavourable to health and strength; though it is no less a mistake, however, that the country air is always superior to the air of the town. Purer, it may be, from smoke and other exhalations; but it may be at the same time loaded with moisture, which will equally prevent it from brightening the colour of the blood. Very cold air again will so contract the blood- vessels in the lungs, that less blood will be exposed to the purifying pro- cess, which will, accordingly, be im- perfect, and weakness will increase, in spite of good food and proper ex- ercise. One strong proof of this is the diminutive dwarfish stature of the Laplanders. They can certainly bear more cold; but it conveys rather a false idea, to talk of the hardy in- habitants of the extreme north. Very warm air is weakening, for the very opposite reason. The relaxed ves- sels of the lungs expose enough of blood to be purified; but the worst of it is, that too much of the thin parts of the blood is carried off by the breath, and what remains is, conse- quently, too thick and phlegmy to flow in a rapid and smooth current through the body. Trainers, there- fore, should, as far as it is possi- ble, select such air as is neither too cold nor too hot; too damp, nor too dry (though, except in the Great Desert, we know few places where air is dry to a fault) and such as is not too confined and impure. It is, we confess, extremely difficult, often impossible, to find air with these conditions; but where any of the offensive circumstances just men- tioned greatly superabound, an arti- ficial atmosphere must be contrived