GR 153 GO been strongly recommended by Pro- fessor Ficinus, of Dresden, as the most delicate of all tests for the pre- sence of the protoxide of iron, sur- passing even considerably the gall nut. It requires the presence of the carbonate of soda, which, in some analyses, may interfere with its use. A grain of green vitriol, with an equal quantity of soda, dissolved in four parts of water, produces, with a drop of the solution of the muriate of gold, a strong precipitate, which gradually assumes a purple colour. Without the soda the effect did not appear in less than three days. M. Ficinus thinks the process may he improved, even to the determination of the quantity of the protoxide of iron present.—Journal of Science. GOOSE. — “A Michaelmas goose,” says Dr. Kitchener, “is as famous in the mouths of the million, as the minced pie at Christmas; but for those who eat with delicacy, it is at that time too full grown. The true period when the goose is in the highest perfection, is when it has just acquired its full growth, and not begun to harden. If the March goose is insipid, the Michaelmas goose is rank; the fine time is be- tween both; from the second week in June to the first in September: the leg is not the most tender part of the goose.”—Cook's Oracle, p. 168. Geese are called green till they are about four months old. The only difference between roasting these and a full grown goose, consists in sea- soning it with pepper and salt in- stead of sage and onion, and roasting it for forty or fifty minutes only.— See Poultry. The famous Strasburgh pies, which sell for a most enormous price, are made with the livers of geese that have been precociously fattened, by cramming them with meat, depriving them of drink, and keeping them constantly before a hot fire. GOOSEBERRIES (Rihcs). — These, having less acid than either raisins or currants, are perhaps more wholesome, especially if their skin and other impurities are not swal- lowed together with the juice. When used in a green state, for sauces and pies, they are cooling and refreshing; and when ripe possess similar pro- perties with cherries. — See Cur- rants. GOURDS (Cucurbita).—A fruit of the melon kind, but less sweet, and of a much larger size: if boiled in milk, after the first water has been poured off, and with the addition of salt and pepper, they afford suffi- ciently wholesome and nutritious food.—See Melon. GRAINS OF PARADISE.— An aromatic seed, very hot taste, and pungent like pepper. Used to give a false strength to wine, beer, and other liquors. GRAN AD ILL A, or Little Pomegranate. — This name is applied to the edible fruit of five species of the Passiflora genus (Mo- nadelph. Pentand. L. and Passijlorce /.), the common character of which is that of climbing herbaceous plants, woody at bottom, generally with lohed leaves, and all natives of warm climates. 1. The granadilla vine of the French. 2. The apple-fruited granadilla, or sweet calabash. 3. The laurel-leaved granadilla, or water lemon. 4. The purple-leaved granadilla. 5. The flesh-coloured granadilla, or May apple. GRAPES.—The fruit of the vine (vitis), of which there are various kinds.—Like strawberries, grapes are excellent fruit. They are uncom- monly resolvent, laxative without debilitating, and promote all the na- tural evacuations; but at the same time, they are in a high degree flatu- lent. The quality of grapes depends much on climate and soil. Only those of a sweet taste and aromatic flavour ought to be used. They agree