5 AL AL believe that plants receive it from the earth during vegetation: hence it may be proper to entirely discard the word vegetable when speaking of this substance. Soda is derived from the ashes of marine plants; but its great depository is the ocean, soda being the basis of sea salt, or muriate of soda.—See Soda Water. Potass was called the vegetable alkali, because it was supposed to exist only in vegetables, though it is now found in some minerals. J>oda was called mineral alkali, because it exists in mineral salts; although it is also procured by chemical process from sea-salt, which is found in nu- merous masses under the earth’s sur- face in many countries, particularly in England, Poland, Hungary, and Spain. The alkalies have various uses in surgery, medicine, the arts, and manufactures. The name of the volatile alkali is ammonia, which is procured from all vegetable and ani- mal substances in a state of putre- faction. In England, however, it is generally procured by dry distilla- tion of bones, horns, and other ani- mal substances. It is also found in mineral water. According to Dr. Austin, ammonia is formed when- ever iron rusts in water which has a free communication with the air.—• See Acids. ALE.—Ale is made by infusing malt in hot water, and then ferment- ing the liquor by the addition of barm or yeast. Hops (which see) are also an essential ingredient. Various sorts of ale are known in Britain, particularly pale and brown : the former is brewed from malt slightly dried: and is esteemed more viscid than the latter, which is made from malt more highly dried. Many places in England are famous for the excellency of their ale, particularly Dorchester in Dorsetshire; and Bur- ton in Staffordshire. The ale of the latter country is by some deemed in- comparable, and great quantities of it are sent down the Trent to Hull, and exported to other parts of the kingdom and abroad. This liquor is the favourite beverage of the peasan- try in most of the English counties. Ale is of so great antiquity in this kingdom, that, in the year 1492, we meet with a license from Henry VII. to John Merchant, a Fleming, to export fifty tuns of this liquor.— See Rees’ Encyclopced. Art. Beer. To those whose diet is not very nutritive ale may be considered as not only an innocent, but a salubrious drink. In the observations relative to the bills of mortality in the year 1662, by an ingenious citizen, con- cerning the increase of some diseases and the decrease of others, we meet with the following remark: “ The stone and strangury decreaseth from the drinking of ale.” There existed, for a length of time, a strong preju- dice against hops, which were looked upon as pei’nicious weeds; but now it is universally admitted, that they constitute the most valuable ingre- dient in malt liquors.—(See Hops). Independent of the flavour and tonic virtues which they communicate, they precipitate, by means of their astringent principle, the vegetable mucilage, and by this means remove from the ale the active principle of its fermentation : consequently with- out hops we must either drink our malt liquors new and ropy, or old and sour.—See Malt Liquors. [To make a thirty-six gallon bar- rel of ale, take malt, usually the pale, two and a half bushels; sugar three pounds, just boiled to a colour; hops, two pounds eight ounces; coriander seeds, one ounce; capsicum, half a drachm. Work it two or three days, beating it well up once or twice a day. When it begins to fall, cleanse it by adding a handful of salt, and some wheat flour mixed with twenty grains of coculus Indicus].— Gray's Supp. to the Pharmacop. Strong ale is, unquestionably, the most nutritive of all malt liquors; but being more difficult of digestion than u 3