PO PO 252 poor, it is apt to weaken and relax the bowels. The celebrated chemist Parmentier, for an experiment, lived exclusively on potatoes for a month, without the least effect on his health. The ease and rapidity with which potatoes are digested, is proved by the remark of labouring people, who sooner feel a renewal of their appetite after them than after any other kind of food. They are most wholesome when either plainly boiled, baked in an oven with their skins on, or roasted in an iron pot. By all these methods the coarse rank juice is either extracted or ameliorated, and the farinaceous part rendered mealy and palatable. By most other me- thods of dressing, their nutritious and digestible properties are more or less injured. Mashed or beat pota- toes, for instance, form a tough paste, which contains a great pro- portion of air beat into the mass, while it is preparing, and confined by the tenacity of the potatoes. During digestion the air is disengaged, and occasions an unpleasant flatulence. Cooked under a roast, or roasted or fried with butter or dripping, pota- toes have their farinaceous qualities much injured, and the brown crust usually formed on them, however palatable and savoury, is very indi- gestible, in consequence of partially charring, and of the empyreumatic oil which it contains. This will often derange the most vigorous stomach, and ought never to be touched by the weak. Soup made with potatoes is not so flatulent as pea-soup, nor yet so indigestible. New potatoes, though an agreeable dish, contain very little of the nutritive farina of the mature roots, being chiefly com- posed of mucilaginous matter, water, and sugar. Neither potatoes nor any other vegetable dish, with the exception of pea-soup, ought ever to be warmed- up after standing over from a pre- ceding meal, as they are then always more or less unwholesome. When mixed with flour (see Bread), po- tatoes are much used to increase the quantity of bread at a cheap rate, and it has now become a common practice with bakers. In Scotland they are kneaded with oatmeal or barley flour, and cakes or bannocks made from the mixture. The fruit of the potatoe contains a large proportion of acid, which is said by Mr. Bainbridge to be tartaric, with a small proportion of malic acid. M. Vauquelin, in his experiments on the quantity of alkali to be obtained from the leaves and stalks of the po- tatoe, cautions agriculturists against a too hasty adoption of the culture of that plant, for the purpose of ob- taining the potash. The quantity of alkali varies extremely with the na- ture of the soil, being, when carbon- ated, from one pound and three quarters to five ounces, for every hundred pounds of the green stalks, &c.; and it varies also in proportion to the other salts contained in the ashes of the vegetable, sometimes scarcely having a place. The quan- tity of potash yielded by the potatoes is in proportion to the quantity of decomposable salts, as acetates, oxa- lates, tartrates, malates, nitrates, &c. which they may contain. From experiments made in France at various places, it appears that the fruit or apples of the potatoe yield, by proper treatment, as much alco- hol as an equal quantity of grapes. The apples are to be bruised and fermented with about an eighteenth or twentieth part their weight of some ferment, and then to be dis- tilled. A chemist of Copenhagen is also said to have discovered a bril- liant matter for dyeing, in potatoe tops. The mode of obtaining it is, by cutting the top when in flower, and bruising and pressing it to ex- tract the juice. Linen or woollen, soaked in this liquid during forty- eight hours, takes a fine solid and permanent yellow dye. If the cloth be afterwards plunged in a blue dye,