entirely of its bad smell, and to render it very clear, a larger quantity will be required to deprive it of its bad taste. In order to save the charcoal powder on board of ships, as it is an article not easily procured at sea, the powder that has been used should not be thrown away; for if it be afterwards well dried, and again beat to powder, it will, by that means, acquire new surfaces, and serve a second time to purify a quantity of water, almost as great as that for which in the first place it was used. And, indeed, it may even he applied to the same purposes, after it has been frequently used, in the same manner ; as, by making it red hot, in a close vessel, it will thereby resume its purifying properties. This process is, doubtless, a troublesome one on shipboard; but it is possible, under some circumstances, that it may be rendered less difficult. As on board of all ships there is every day a fire, economy suggests that the charcoal of the wood which is used should be saved, and instead of letting it burn to ashes, it should be extinguished by water, or other means, and kept for use when wanted. The cinders of pit-coal, provided they are perfectly burnt, and reduced to powder, may serve, in cases of necessity, for the purification of water; but when this kind of coal is made use of, no acid of any kind must be added to the water, as the metallic particles which pit-coal con- tains, even after it is thoroughly burnt, might, if acids were employed, communicate dangerous qualities to the water. It is proper here to observe, that charcoal takes from the water a part of the acid which has been made use of. If two drops of sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol) are put into four ounces of water, the water will be- come sensibly acid; but this acidity will immediately disappear, if a small quantity of powdered charcoal be added to the water. WELSH RABBIT. — Toasted cheese and bread. Dr. King, in his Art of Cookery, eulogizes this pi- quant morceau in the following strain: “ Happy the man that has each fortune tried, To whom she much hath given, and much denied; With abstinence all delicates he sees, And can regale himself on toast and cheese.” It is made in the following man- ner : upon a slice of bread cut about an inch thick, the crust pared off, and slightly toasted, so as just to brown it on one side, lay a piece of good, fat, mellow Cheshire or double Glo’ster cheese, a quarter of an inch thick, not so big as the bread by half an inch on each side. Pare off the rind of the cheese; cut out all the specks and rotten parts, and lay it on the toasted bread, on a cheese-toaster; carefully watch it that it does not burn, and stir it with a spoon to prevent a pellicle from burning on the surface. Season it secundum guslum with good mustard and salt. WHEATEAR. — A small bird, esteemed very delicate food. It is dressed and eaten in the same man- ner as larks. WHEAT (Triticum).—The seeds of the Triticum hibernum, and cesti- vum of Linnaeus, are so termed. It is to these plants we are indebted for our bread, and the various kinds of pastry and confectionery. The wheat, after being thrashed and winnowed, is ground between two millstones, and then sifted to obtain its farina or floui\ 'I'lie farina of wheat may be separated into its three constituent parts, in the following manner : the flour is to be kneaded into a paste with water in an earthen vessel, the water continuing to pour upon it from a cock, which, as it falls upon the paste, takes up from it a very fine white powder, whereby it acquires the colour and consistency of milk. This process is continued till the