TR 349 TR removed from botli. The broth is for this purpose-set aside to cool, and the cake of fat on the top taken off before it is given; then it is warmed up, and again carefully skimmed. When beef-tea is given instead of broth, which sometimes happens, the fat is got rid of in the same way. So very different are the notions which trainers have learned from experience respecting the effects of fat, and those usually maintained by the vulgar, of its highly nourishing properties. In speaking of liquid food, it may be mentioned that no preparation of milk is permitted, as if it is strong and new, it is heavy, and apt to de- range the stomach ; and if sour, as in the state of butter-milk, though it is not so apt to disagree, it is weak and watery, and productive of little nourishment. All the cream, and the buttery parts of milk also, have the quality of producing fat, rather than firm muscularity. The nutritive properties of milk, indeed, are very ill understood by those who have taken up fanciful andromantic notions of pastoral diet, and the healthiness of rustics who use it liberally. It is not the milk diet, we are bold to say, that makes shepherds healthy and vigorous, so much as their constant exercise in the open air, which will render almost any diet so far whole- some and nutritive. The adoption of the milk diet of the peasant, with- out his exercise, would not answer the end. Fewterel, however, pre- scribed rennet milk for drink, and milk pottage for supper; but his sys- tem was a bad one. Boiling, as we have seen on that article, deprives the meat of many of its best juices, and other nourish- ing properties, which are washed out of the fibres by the constant entrance and recess of the water during the process. Boiled beef, indeed, when not too much done, contains a large enough portion of nourishment for common every-day life; but it is rendered totally unfit for a training diet, by the previous process of salt- ing, This process is found not only to harden the fibres of the meat, and make it more indigestible, but also to deteriorate the animal juices, while it is apt to produce thirst, a circum- stance above all others to be avoided in training, for thirst always indicates the presence of some unwholesome stimulus, or excitement, and during its continuance wastes down the sub- stance of the muscles, by the absorb- ents making an extra demand on their juices.—See Boiling. Stewing has a like effect to boiling, in wasting the nutritive parts of the meat; and it appears also that stewed meat is still less easy of digestion than that which is boiled. Frying is, of all the modes of cookery, the worst for training, as it cannot be performed without fat or oil; two things which, as we have seen, are in all stages of training most strictly prohibited.— See Stewing. The first allowable mode of dress- ing meat, so as to retain and improve its nourishment, is roasting. By this process, however, there is still a con- siderable loss of substance, amount- ing to from thirty to thirty-five per- cent. in beef and mutton, or nearly a third of their original weight. It is not, we conceive, much known in this country, that the French have a way of roasting meat without much waste, or loss of its juices. The joint to be roasted, says the Almanack des Gourmands, is to be immersed for a few minutes in melted suet, which will form a coating around it, by penetrating the surface for a little way, which will prove a barrier of resistance to the exit of all the juices of the interior. We cannot, however, answer for the process, as producing either a wholesome or a savoury joint. If meat is to be roasted for a person in training, it ought to be put down to a brisk fire, and not done in the usual way of allowing the heat gra- dually to penetrate to the centre. The outside, indeed, ought at first to 2 u