AL AC 2 what acid, applied to substances in which there is an excess of acid; e. g. cream of tartar, green fruit, &c.; and also to mineral waters which contain so great a quantity of carbonic acid gas as to render them acidulous, or somewhat tart to the taste. ACORN.—The fruit of the oak- tree, and the food of the early ages, though neglected after corn was cul- tivated. The acorn is of little use to us at present, except in fattening hogs, other cattle, and poultry. Among the Spaniards, the acorn, or Gians Iberia, is said to have long remained a delicacy, and to have been served up in the form of a dessert. In times of famine, acorns have been some- times dried, ground into meal, and baked as bread. Bartholin relates, that they are used in Norway for this purpose. The inhabitants of Chio held out a long siege without any other food; and during a long siege, and in a time of great scarcity in France (1709), this production was resorted to for sustenance. A corns are said not only to be hard of digestion, but also to occasionhead- aches, flatulency, and colicks. In many places, instances are not want- ing where they have supplied a salu- tary and nutritious food. With this in- tention they are first boiled in water, and separated from the husks, and then dried and ground: the meal is mixed with about one-half or one- third of corn flour. From some late reports of the Academy of Science at Petersburgh, we are informed that acorns are the best substitute for coffee that has been hitherto disco- vered. To communicate to them the oily properties of coffee, the follow- ing process is recommended. When the acorns have been toasted brown, add fresh butter in small pieces to them while hot in the pan, and stir them with care; cover the pan and shake it, that the whole may be well mixed. The acorns of the holm oak are formed at Venice into cups, one inch and a half in diameter, and some- what less in depth. They are used for dressing leather, and instead of galls for dying woollen cloth black. A decoction of acorns is reputed good against fluxes and colicks : the powder has been recommended in agues, but we have now much surer remedies. ADIPOCIRE.—A fatty substance formed from animal muscle. When a piece of fresh muscle is exposed for some time to the action of water, or is kept in moist earth, the fibrin en- tirely disappears, and a fatty matter called adipocire, remains, which has some resemblance to spermaceti. It was formerly thought that the fibrin was really converted into adipocire; but Gay-Lussac {Ann. de Chim. et de Pharm. voh iv.), and Chevreul, maintain that this substance proceeds entirely from the fat originally pre- sent in the muscle; and that the fibrin is nearly destroyed by putre- faction. Dr. Thompson, however, maintains, that the conversion of fibrin into fat does not occur in some instances, and has related a remark- able case in proof of tiffs opinion.— (See Ann. Phil. vol. xii. p. 41).—Ac- cording to M. Chevreul, adipocire is not a pure fatty principle, but a species of soap, consisting chiefly of margaric acid, in combination with ammonia, generated during the de- composition of fibrin.—See Fibrin. ALBUMEN, ANIMAL.—One of those animal substances which is nei- ther acid nor oleaginous. It enters largely into the composition of animal fluids and solids. Dissolved in water, it forms an essential constituent of the serum of the blood, the liquor of the serous cavities, and the fluid of dropsy. In the solid form, it is con- tained in several of the textures of the body, such as the cellular mem- brane, the skin, glands, and vessels. Hence it appears, that albumen exists under two forms, liquid and solid. The liquid form is best procured from the white of eggs, which con-