227 OX OY the European orange-trees of this sort were produced, is still preserved at Lisbon. Those most esteemed, and which are made presents of in India, are no bigger than a billiard- ball. The Maltese oranges are said to be the finest in the world.—The juice of the Seville orange is pre- ferred to that of the lemon: the flavour is finer and the acid milder. —See Lemon. ORANGE FLOWER.—Used both in food and physic. It is pre- served whole, and by distillation a liquid of a very pleasant smell is ex- tracted. It is much used as a cor- dial in hysterical and cephalic cases. The orange-flower water helps diges- tion ; it also refreshes and exhila- rates the mind. The leaves should have an agreeable smell, and be fresh gathered for use. ORTOLAN.—A bird about the size of a lark, though rather smaller if any thing; is usually very fat, and of various colours; the beak and legs are inclined to red. It feeds upon several sorts of seeds, but mil- let is that on which it soonest fattens. It is a native of the southern parts of Europe, as Italy and the south of Fi-ance. The flesh of this bird is tender, delicious, juicy, and of ex- quisite savour. It is strengthening, nutritive, and easy of digestion, and agrees with all constitutions. OSMAZOME.—The essence of flavour. The pure element, which gives to the delicacies of the animal kingdom all their flavour, and all their richness; in a word, it is the delicious and pure element which constitutes the rich flavour of game, venison, and turkey, as well as of the more common articles, as veal, lamb, and sucking-pig. The savoury per- fume developed in roasting, &e. The name osmazome was invented by M. Thenard (videTraite de Chimie, vol. iii.) though it is to his country- man M. Rouelle that we are indebted for the discovery, and who of course merits our warmest eulogies both as a gourmand and an epicure. The following is M. Thenard’s process for obtaining pure osmazome.—Divide a piece of rump steak, or lean of any sort of meat, into small fragments, and cover it for an hour or two with cold water, pressing it occasionally to squeeze out the juice. Pour off the water, and pi-eserve it, and add a fresh quantity, repeating the same process two or three times. Mix the several waters in a flat basin of china or porcelain, and evaporate till part coagulates, and part remains liquid, the latter of which is to be filtered and evaporated by a gentle heat to the consistence of a syrup, which will be of a deep rich colour: still it is impure and requires ulte- rior fining. This is done by pouring upon it some of the best spirit of wine, which only dissolves the osma- zome, and refuses to take up any remaining animal impurity. The osmazome being now procured in conjunction with the spirit of wine, the latter requires only to be evapo- rated to produce the genuine osma- zome, which is of a rich yellow brown colour, and of an exquisite flavour. Osmazome is not only the most digestible, but the most nourish- ing element which meat contains. It abounds in the browned savoury crust of roast meats, which owe, indeed, all their piquancy and relish to the osmazome developed on the spit. OXYGEN.—One of the most es- sential and component parts of the air we breathe. Oxygen gas was discovered by Priestley in 1774, and by Scheele a year or two afterwards, without any previous knowledge of the discovery made by Priestley, who named it dephlogisticated air; by Scheele it was called empyreal air, and by Condorcet vital air. Oxygen is so necessary to respira- tion, that no animal can live in an atmosphere which does not contain a certain uncombined portion of it; for an animal soon dies if put into a portion of air from which the oxygen