IN IN 176 required where the patient either cannot or will not submit to the measures which prudence dictates. In such circumstances we must en- deavour to aid the digestive process by medicines; but I would wish to impress upon the student the impro- priety of trusting to them in dyspeptic cases. He should remember that almost every drug will injure diges- tion in a healthy state; and he should learn, therefore, to be sparing of medi- cine when the stomach is weakened by disease.”—Gregory. Treatment.—The usual indications of cure in dyspepsia are to avoid the occasional causes — exhibit gentle emetics to remove crudities from the stomach—to correct morbid acidity by the interposition of alkalies and absorbents, alone or combined with laxatives. Diarrhoea, should it acci- dentally occur, by absorbents, and if the feces be of an unnatural clay-like colour, purges of the submuriate of mercury must be given. To restore tire tone of the stomach and intes- tines, vegetable bitters, as quassia, columba, gentian, &c.; tonics, com- bined with aromatics; pure air and exercise; the flesh brush and cold bath; attention to regimen, care- fully avoiding the more indigestible and flatulent vegetables, malt liquors, &c. Substituting soda water, toast and water (see Toast-water), brandy and water, Madeira and sherry, for common drink. Pyrmont and Buxton waters. Warm clothing, particularly about the feet and legs. In every form of dyspepsia atten- tion to diet is indispensable, and the patient must have regard, not to its quality only, but to its quantity. In a weakened state of the stomach, it must have little given it to do. The body is strengthened, not in propor- tion to the quantity of food taken in, but to that which is thoroughly digested. Differences in the habits of life will, of course, lead to important differences in the kind and quantity of diet which should be permitted to a dyspeptic patient; but the following may be regarded as rules of very general application: — “It should consist in a due mixture of animal and vegetable food, but the former should be eaten only once a day. It should be thoroughly masticated. Great varieties of food at any one time should be prohibited, as leading to an indulgence of the appetite beyond the wants of the system. Articles of difficult digestion (see Substances, indigestible), should be carefully avoided; such as all kinds of smoked, hard, dried, salted, and long kept meat; all those dishes where too much nutritious matter is collected in a small space. Eggs, for instance, potted meats, strong soups, and preparations of suet, fat and butter; lastly, all raw vegetables whatever, with the exception of ripe fruits. Regularity in the hours of meals should be rigorously enjoined, and the patient directed to abstain from food at all other times.—Gre- gory’s Theory and Practice, Sfc. Organs in the animal economy (see Digestion, organs of) cannot long be so deranged as to produce vitiated secretions, without, at the same time, giving rise to other deviations from health. The debility of stomach which prevents a due secretion of gastric juice, must at length produce some of those other effects which are witnessed in disorders of this organ. The symptoms which arise imme- diately from indigested food, exist in various degrees in different cases. People frequently complain of a sense of distension after eating, of flatulent and acid eructations, who, notwith- standing, enjoy general good health, and find that even these symptoms may be prevented by taking less food, and that of a more digestible quality. If they are prudent in this respect, and the constitution is otherwise sound, and not exposed to the effects of indolence and other causes weaken- ing the nervous system, the stomach will often recover its powers without