279 SA SA considered by Professor Thompson and Dr. Bostock, to be albumen. This is insoluble in water, and, when incinerated, affords a large propor- tion of phosphate of lime. The tar- tar of the teeth is derived from its gradual decomposition upon them. The recent investigations of Tiede- mann and Gmelin prove, however, saliva to be a more compound fluid than was formerly supposed; and one of their principal discoveries is, that the sulpho-cyanic acid, a most active poison, combined with potass, enters into its composition. Its solid contents are found to be one-twenty- fifth per cent. The quantity of saliva secreted daily is considerable. Nash and Langoni estimated it at a pound in twelve hours. Mr. Cruickshank at a pound in twenty-four hours ; but it must vary according to circum- stances. This secretion is more co- pious in children and old persons than in adults; in cold than in warm climates; in the day than the night. The smell or sight of any agreeable food makes the saliva flow into the mouth with considerable rapidity. The same effect results from the irri- tation of smoking tobacco; and from that of bitter, sour, or salt substances in the mouth. The habit of frequently ejecting spittle from the mouth ren- ders an augmented secretion of it necessary. A similar consequence attends those who talk much; and so large is the quantity of saliva secreted during meals, that Sabatier saw a soldier who, at three times, used to wet several towels with what was discharged from a fistula com- municating with the parotid duct. Traite d’ Anat. tom. ii, p. 171. In disease the quantity of saliva is sometimes increased, sometimes almost suppressed. Its office is two- fold : that of moistening the mouth in combination with a small portion of mucus secreted by the labial and buscal glands, and that of contri- buting to the digestion of the food in the stomach and duodenum. Under the influence of the irritating pas- sions, and especially of violent rage, it assumes a frothy appearance, and in many animals, becomes poisonous. It is said, indeed, to become so some- times in man himself. Hoffman, Dissert, dc Saliva ejusque Morbis, p. 24. When the saliva is secreted in a healthy proportion, and the various muscles of the mouth perforin their proper office, it is never discharged from the mouth, unless voluntarily ; but passes rapidly from the fauces into the gullet. But it may be se- creted immoderately, or the muscles of deglutition may not properly per- form their functions: and, in either case, the saliva will flow from the mouth involuntarily, accompanied with a specific difference of symp- toms, which may be distinguished into salivation and drivelling. SALMI.—A highly seasoned hash so called. SALMO.—The name of a genus of fishes, of the orderAbdominates. The salmon. Salmo Alpinus. The red char. This beautiful and delicate little fish, and the salmo carpio, or gilt char, are found in the Westmoreland lakes, and in those of Wales and Scotland. They are very rich, and hard of digestion. Salmo Eperlanus. The smelt. A beautiful little fish, found in great abundance in the rivers Thames and Dee, and in the European seas, be- tween November and February. It is a great delicacy when in season, but not easily digested by weak sto- machs.—See Smelt. Salmo Fario. The common fresh- water trout. The flesh of this fish is very delicate and rich, but hard to digest. Salmo Lacustris. The lake trout. Salmo Salar. The common sal- mon.—See Salmon. Salmo Salmulus. The samlet: the smallest of the British species of