205 ME ME boiled by whimsical gourmands, but it appears oftenest and is most fami- liar to us in a roasted form; it is a joint very full of gravy, and much more so than the leg, on which ac- count it is preferred by many people. There are also a variety of nice cuts in it: it must be cut in the hollow part, and the knife should go down to the bone. The gravy then runs fast into the dish, and the part cut opens wide enough to take many slices from it; the best fat, which is full of kernels, lies on the outer edge, and is to be cut in thin slices. If there be many at table, and the hol- low part of the joint be all cut away, some good and delicate slices may be taken from each side of the ridge of the bladebone ; on the under side of the shoulder are two parts very full of gravy, and which many people prefer to those of the upper side, the parts about the shank are coarse and dry, as about the knuckle in the leg, yet by some they are preferred to the more juicy parts. 12. Saddle of Mutton.—A saddle or chine of mutton, consists of two un- divided loins, the back-bone running down the middle to the tail. In car- ving this you must cut a long slice on either side of the fleshy parts. There is seldom any great length of the tail left on; but if it be sent up with the tail, many will be fond of it, and it may be easily divided into several pieces, by cutting between the joints of the tail, which are about an inch apart. 13. Fore-quarter of Lamb.—This joint is always roasted; and when it comes to table, before you help any one, you must separate the shoulder from the breast. The shoulder being thus taken off, a lemon or orange should be squeezed upon the part, then sprinkled with salt, where the shoulder joined it, and the shoulder should then be laid on it again ; but if the fore-quarter be grass lamb and large, the shoulder should be put into another dish, when taken off, and cut up in the same manner as a shoulder of mutton. The gristly part must then be separated from the l'ibs, and then all the preparatory business will be done. The ribs are generally most esteemed, and one or two may be easily separated from the rest. Each person at table should be asked which they prefer, the ribs, the gristly part, or the shoulder. 14. Spare-rib of Pork.—A spare- vib of pork is carved by cutting out slices in the thick part at the bottom of the bones. When the fleshy part is cut away, the bones, which are esteemed very sweet picking, may be easily separated. Very few people admire the gravy of pork, it being too strong for most stomachs. 15. Hams.—There are three me- thods of carving a ham ; some begin at the knuckle, some at thick end, and others in the middle, which is perhaps the best method, as you then come at once to the prime of the meat; be careful to cut it thin, and by no means in thick and clumsy pieces. 16. Roasted Pig.—A pig is seldom sent whole to table, but cut up by the cook, who takes off the head, splits the body down the back, and garnishes the dish with the chaps and ears. Before any be helped, separate the shoulder from the car- cass, and then the legs. The most delicate parts of the pig are about the neck; the next best parts are the ribs; but in a young pig there can- not be many coarse bits. Some are fond of an ear, others of a chap, and may consequently be all pleased at an easy rate. 17. Haunch of Venison. — First cut it across down to the bone, at some little distance from the knuckle; from the middle of that cut, take another stroke as deep as you can the lengthways, so that the two strokes will then form something like the letter T; you may then take out lengthways as many slices as you please. Slices of venison should not be cut thick, nor yet too thin, and T