GA 143 GA It kills worms, and clears the voice; creates an appetite, and consumes the slimy humours in the stomach. If taken in excess it causes pain in the head. It is not recommended for such as are troubled with haemorrhoids, or to nurses. It agrees in cold weather with old people abounding in gross humours, and whose digestion is faulty. Young people of a hot and bilious constitution ought to abstain from it. It is eaten much in the south of France, Spain and Italy. GASTRIC JUICE.—This won- derful menstruum, the most ac- tive we are acquainted with in na- ture, is secreted by the capillary arteries that so minutely and nume- rously intersect the cellular texture of the stomach, and decussate each other in their ramifications. The quantity of gastric juice secreted during digestion is considerable.— MM. Leuret and Lassaigne found, that when the gullet of a horse was tied, so as to prevent the secretions of the mouth and gullet from enter- ing the stomach, a full meal of oats became completely saturated with gastric juice in four or five hours. Mr. Cruikshank supposes the quan- tity of the fluid thus secreted to be about a pound in every four hours ; yet the quantity seems to vary very considerably, according to the de- mand of the system, or the state of the stomach itself. In carnivorous birds, whose stomachs are called membranous from having little mus- cularity, and consequently, whose food is turned into chyme principally by the action of the gastric juice, without any collateral assistance or previous mastication, this fluid is I secreted in a much larger abund- ance ; as it is also in those persons who labour under that morbid state of the stomach called canine appe- tite; as likewise when, on recovery 1 from a fever, or after long absti- nence, the system is reduced to a state of great exhaustion, and a keen sense of hunger induces a desire to devour food voraciously and almost perpetually. Leuret and Lassaigne, who inva- riably found the gastric juice to be acid, state its component parts to be Hydrochlorate of Ammonia, Chloride of Sodium, Mucus, An animal principle soluble in water, Phosphate of Lime, and Lactic acid; and they impugn the accuracy of Dr. Prout’s experiments, who con- cluded the free acid evolved during digestion to be the hydrochloric. On the opposite hand,Tiedemann and Gmelin, observe that, if the contents of the stomach be examined after a long fast, and without any stimulus being applied to its villous membrane, the fluid found in it is a clear, ropy, rather opaque liquid, and nearly or quite destitute of acidity. But if any stimulus, even of the simplest kind, be applied to the inside of the sto- mach, then the fluid secreted is uni- formly acid. Pure gastric juice was best procured by making animals swallow quartz pebbles after a long fast, and killing them in an hour. It was generally greyish-white, ropy, and decidedly acid. When taken from the dog and the horse, it con- tained some mucus, osmazome, and salivary matter, alkaline sulphates, and hydrochlorates, the alkali being chiefly soda, besides phosphate and muriate of lime, with other salts in minute proportion; and the acidity was owing to the hydrochloric and acetic acids in the dog, and to these conjoined with the butyric acid in the horse. When the secretion of the gastric juice is elicited by its natural stimu- lus, food of various kinds, the chym- ous mass is invariably acid; and Tiedemann and Gmelin further main- tain, as the results of their experi- ments, that its acidity is greatest when the food is most difficult of