52 BU BU 2. Cow-Beef.—The grain of cow- beef is closer, the fat whiter, than that of the ox-beef, hut the lean has not so bright a red. 3. Bull-Beef.—The grain of bull- beef is still closer; the fat hard and skinny. 4. Mutton.—If you squeeze young mutton with your fingers, it will feel very tender; but if it be old, it will feel hard and continue wrinkled, and the fat will be fibrous and clammy. The grain of ram mutton is close, the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. The flesh of ewe mutton is paler than that of the weather-, and the grain is closer. Most people give the preference to short shanked mutton. 5. Lamb.—The head of a lamb is known to be good, if the eyes are bright and plump; but if they be sunk and wrinkled, it is stale. If the vein in the neck of the fore-quarter appear of a fine blue, it is fresh ; but if it be green or yellow, you may be sure it is stale. In the hind-quarter, if there be a faint disagreeable smell near the kidney, or if the knuckle be very limber, it is not good. 6. Veal.—The flesh of a cow-calf is whiter than that of a bull, but the flesh is not so firm. The fillet of the former is generally preferred, on ac- count of the udder. If the head be fresh the eyes will be plump ; but if stale, they will be sunk and wrinkled. If the vein in the shoulder be not of a bright red, the meat is not fresh; and if there be any green or yellow spots in it, it is very bad. A good neck and bi-east will be white and dry; but if they be clammy, and look green or yellow at the upper end, they are stale. The kidney is the soonest apt to taint in the loin, and if it be stale, it will be soft and slimmy. A leg is good if it be firm and white; but bacl, if it be limber, and the flesh flabby, with green or yellow spots. 7. Pork.—Measly pork is not only unwholesome to eat, but this state of it is not difficult to detect* by the fat being full of kernels or little lumps. If it be young, the lean will break on being pinched, and the skin will indent by nipping it with the fingers; the fat, like lard, will be soft and pidpy. If the rind be thick, rough, and cannot he nipped with the fingers it is old. If the flesh be cool and smooth, it is fresh; but if it be clam- my, it is tainted; and, in this case, the knuckle will always be the worst. 8. Hams.—Those hams are the best which have the shortest shank. If you put a knife under the bone of a ham, and if it come out clean, and smell well, it is good; but if it be daubed and smeared, and has a dis- agreeable smell, it is bad. 9. Bacon.—If bacon be good, the fat will feel oily, and look white; and the lean will be of a good colour, and stick close to the bone; but it either is, or will be rusty very soon, if there be any yellow streaks in the lean. The rind of young bacon is always thin; hut if old, thick. 10. Brawn.—The rind of old brawn is thick and hard; but young if mo- derately so. The rind and fat of barrow and sow brawn are very tender. 11. Venison.—The fat of venison must, in a great measure, determine your choice of it. If the fat be thick, bright and clear, the clefts smooth and close, it is young; but a very wide tough cleft, shews it to be old. Venison will first change at the haunches and shoulders (the places, it is presumed, where they are first attacked by the dogs); at these parts run in a knife, and you will soon he able to judge of its new- ness or staleness, by its sweet or rank smell. If it be tainted, it will look greenish, or inclining to be very black. Obs.—Meat in which the slight- est putrefaction can be detected, has reached its highest degree of tender- ness, and should be dressed without delay; but before this period, in which some kinds of meat is offen- sive, the due degree of inteneration