BU BU 55 south from Lynn in Norfolk, to Cam- bridge, and thence conveyed by land carnage to London. Uttoxeter in Staffordshire, is a market famous for good butter, inso- much that the London dealers have established a factory there for that article. It is bought by the pot, of a long cylindrical form, weighing 141bs.; but no butter is esteemed equal to that which is made in the county of Essex, well known by the name of Epping butter. It was long before the Greeks ap- pear to have had any notion of but- ter ; their poets make no mention of it, and yet are frequently speaking of milk and cheese. The Romans used butter no otherwise than as medicine, never as food. The ancient Jews, however, appear to have been ac- quainted with the method of prepar- ing butter. Solomon, Isaiah, and even Moses, speak of it. The last represents it as in use in Abraham’s time. (See Gen. xviii. 8; Prov. xxx. 33; and Isaiah vii. 15). But some modem writers suppose that by but- ter in these passages we are to under- stand cheese: while others maintain that, in Scripture, the word butter almost always denotes liquid cream. When we read of children of being fed with butter and honey, it means, say these commentators, cream and honey, which was very common in Palestine. Figuratively, it denotes plenty. See J ob xx. 17, and xxix. 6. BUTTER, Directions for Choosing.—In purchasing butter do not trust to the specimen given you to taste by the seller, lest he give you a taste of one lump and after- wards sell you another. In choosing salt butter, trust rather to your smell than taste, by putting a knife into it, and applying it to your nose. If the butter be in a cask, have it un- hooped, and thrust in your knife be- tween the staves, into the middle of it, for the top of the cask is some- times better butter than the middle, owing to artful package. BUTTER, To preserve. — The common method of preserving butter is by working an ounce or two of salt into each pound, until they be tho- roughly incorporated. The best salt for this purpose is in large crystals, which should be thoroughly dried, and coarsely powdered. Dr. Anderson's Receipt*—For the cure of butter, Dr. Anderson recom- mends a mixture of two parts of the best grey salt, one of sugar, and one of saltpetre, beat into fine powder; one ounce of this preparation is suf- ficient for a pound of butter. It is stated on the same authority, that butter cured in this way does not taste well till it has stood at least a fortnight after being salted, but that after that period, is has a rich mar- rowy taste, which no other butter ever acquires, and tastes so little salt, that one would imagine it would not keep; and Dr. Anderson has seen it perfectly sound and sweet when two years old. Cause of Butter becoming Rancid. —It is principally from the milk, which is not entirely expressed from the butter, and in consequence of the albumen, which is constantly present, that it becomes rancid and spoils. These may, however, be separated by melting the butter, and keeping it over the fire until all the water be evaporated, when the albumen will also be coagulated, and sink to the bottom. And to guard against all risk of producing an empyreumatic taste,f the vessel containing the but- ter should not be exposed directly to the fire, but placed in a larger ves- sel filled with water, which is made to boil, forming, what chemists call, a water bath. While the butter re- mains fluid, it resembles a perfectly transparent oil, and, on cooling, it * See—Anderson’s Recreations, vob iv. p. 87. t The offensive smell and taste, that substances receive from being exposed to too much fire.