CII 65 CII in great quantities at a time. In small quantities after dinner, it can do no great harm; but it is absurd to sup- pose that it assists digestion—its effects at best being of a negative kind, that is, by acting as a tempo- rary stimulant on the stomach; and even this is the case only with sound old cheese, which is neither too fat nor too far advanced in the process of putrefaction. To show the strongly viscid quality of cheese, and the power of diges- tion it must require to assimilate it to our fluids, the following composi- tion is adduced, as the strongest ce- ment hitherto imagined, for mending china cups, glasses, and the like :—• Take a piece of Cheshire or Glouces- ter cheese, and boil it in three or four different waters, till it forms a soft and elastic mass, freed of the whey and other extraneous ingre- dients. After having expressed all the water from this mass, and while yet warm, it must be gradually rubbed upon a piece of marble, such as is used by colourmen; and as much unslacked or quick lime, in powder, added, as will be absorbed by the cheese without making it too hard. This compound forms the strongest possible cement; and if allowed to dry gradually, it is able to withstand fire as well as water. Toasted cheese, though more agree- able to some palates than in its crude state, is yet still more indi- gestible. Cheese, if too much salted, like that of the Dutch, acquires, when old, a pernicious acrimony. iThe green cheese of Switzerland, which is mixed with the powder of the wild mellilot, and the milder sage cheeses prepared in England, ' are almost the only kind that may be eaten without injury; and even these [should be used in moderation by weak stomachs. Independent, however, of 1 every objection advanced against the i digestibility of cheese, it constitutes 1a prevailing article of substantial food' among the labouring classes, by whom it is often consumed in great quan- tities, without the least inconve- nience. To Choose Cheese.—The coat of the cheese should be carefully examined before it is pui'chased; for, if it be old, with a rough and ragged coat, or dry at top, you may expect to find little worms or mites in it. If it be moist, spongy, or full of holes, it will give room to suspect that it is mag- gotty. Whenever any perished parts are perceived on the outside, be sure to probe to the bottom of them ; for though the hole in the coat be but small, the perished part within may turn out to go to a considerable extent. CHEMISTRY, ANIMAL.— This branch of chemical science em- braces all distinct compounds derived from the bodies of animals ; and are called proximate animal princi- ples. These substances are distin- guished from inorganic matter by the characters which belong to the latter, namely, inorganic chemistry includes the doctrine of affinity, and the laws of combination, toge- ther with the chemical history of all the elementary principles hitherto discovered, and of those compound bodies which are not the product of organization. The principles which serve to distinguish proximate animal principles from vegetable matter, are the presence of nitrogen in the former, their strong tendency to putrefy, and the highly offensive products to which their spontaneous decomposition gives rise. It should, however, be remembered, that nitro- gen is likewise a constituent of many vegetable substances. Though few of these, the vegeto-animal excepted, are prone to submit to the process of putrefactive fermentation, it is equally rem arkable, that there are compounds of animal origin, such as chlorestine and the oils, which do not contain nitrogen as one of their ele- ments, still they are not disposed to putrefy. o 2