YE 366 YE (Beckman’s Hist, of Inventions').— With what goodness, observes the pious Sturm, does God thus provide for our happiness and enjoyments, by making even the most remote countries contribute to them. Let it moreover be considered, that nuts, acorns, crabs, and a few wild berries, were almost all the variety of vege- table food indigenous to our island. The meanest labourer, as Dr. Aiken justly remarks, is now fed with more wholesome and delicate aliments than the petty kings of the country could obtain when in its uncultivated VEGETABLE ACIDS.—There are reckoned at present among chemists upwards of twenty vege- table acids, though but few of these are met with in common articles of vegetable food. They appear to be more refreshing to the system than affording much real nourishment; which, when it is observed to take place, may perhaps be more justly referred to the other principles with which it is combined. For instance, in the orange and apple, the acid is combined with sugar and mucilage ; and in sowans, or flummery, and starch-maker’s water, in which it is combined with starch and gluten.— See Acids, Vegetable. VEGETABLE ALIMENT. — Vegetable food is more ancient than any other species of aliment. As constituting the food of animals, ve- getables are the foundation of all our nourishment, for through this means animals are nourished, which in their turn afford nutriment to man. There are indeed no circumstances under which animal food should be solely used. This has been confirmed by every rational experiment hitherto made; and a person confined only for a few days to this mode of living, has brought on such diseased action as to have obliged him to desist. In- dependent of this, by stimulating to an extreme degree by animal diet, the springs of life are urged on too fast and preternaturally, and of course weakening exertions of the system ensue, which, from their ex- cess, induce early decay. Thus child- hood is prematurely ushered by it into manhood; and the powers of manhood, soon exhausted, display the infirmities and progress of age, at a period when vigour and strength should still be in perfection. A diet of vegetable food, on the contrary, is conducive to long life: it neither accelerates the vital energy, nor ripens the fruit before its time; but with a slow and regular step, brings forward the different stages in due season, and with all the advantages which their proper maturity ought to confer upon them. At the same time, while the good effects of a vegetable diet are pointed out, in arresting the progress of life, and giving a greater permanence to existence, we by no means approve of it as a diet to be entirely trusted to. On the exclusive use of a vegeta- ble diet, declaimers against it have not taken into view the various and new circumstances of situation in which man is now placed. He is no longer the child of nature, nor the passive inhabitant of one genial spot, as when he was first formed. He is now a citizen of the world at large ; exertion and toil are his constant attendants, and he requires a more ready and assimilated nourishment than vegetable food can convey. In many situations, alas! the vigour of his system is weakened by extremes of temperature, which demand, to counteract them, the most stimulant and invigorating food he is capable of acquiring. The excellence of ve- getable food, therefore, used alone, is confined to mild temperature, and a passive state, and then it certainly deserves that preference which hu- manity andphilosophy have bestowed upon it. Vegetable food, considered as con-