79 CO CO articles are used, known under the name of condiments, which serve to decorate the tables, and are of use with some kinds of food. These are condemned by Pliny, as highly per- nicious, but he probably alluded to the feasts of Apicius and other lux- urious Romans of those times, who carried every thing to excess. The use of condiments seem to have been first suggested by a sense of oppression in the stomach, when languid and clogged with insipid food. With our aliments, condiments are variously used : they sometimes im- prove the taste of different articles of subsistence—at other times they cor- rect their noxious qualities—'Some- times they promote the digestion of such articles, and at other times acce- lerate their passage through the body. Condiments may be considered under the following general heads: The Saline. Saccharine. Acidulous. Hot, Aromatic, or Spicy. Oleaginous. Compound. Ice. Miscellaneous. Man is very fond of being stimu- lated, and very desirous of experi- encing again the stimulants which he has already experienced. Instances of this we have in snuff, &c., and this will explain the use of condiments, which, if used within certain limits, are in a manner natural to man, and may be very useful. Salt.—This is the most common article used as a condiment. Infants soon hecome fond of it. If taken mo- derately is very wholesome, although not nourishing, and most of it passes off by the urine.* It stimulates and * Salt is either procured from rocks in the earth, from salt springs, or from sea water. Lymington, in Hampshire, makes various kinds of salt, both medical and culinary. There is an excellent salt- spring at Droitwich, and Cheshire abounds in saline waters. promotes the secretion ofgastric juice. It is stimulatory, however, to the stomach without any necessity, and the viscus when once used to sti- mulants, can no longer digest with- out them. Salt is more necessary with fat meat than with lean, and it ought to be used sparingly by young, florid, and hale people, as it heats, and creates thirst. In tropical climates, where they use more vegetable food, they use a larger quantity of condiments than in Europe, independently of their growing there, as pepper, nut- meg, &e. All our fluids are impreg- nated with sea-salt, so great is the quantity we take. It is found in all secreted fluids, dropsies, the blood, and contents of the intestines: it is not assimilated, but passes through the different channels. Vinegar, or Acetous Acid, is also much used. It contains some small nutritive particles, but is chiefly used to excite the appetite, to cool the food, and render it more sapid; it is usually mixed with food of quite a different nature, as mustard, pepper, &c. It was very anciently used: the Roman soldiers mixed it with water for com- mon drink. Sour milk is a common condi- ment with the Highlanders. Ketchup is merely salt flavoured with mush- rooms ; and salt is a sort of volatile alkali, with common salt, flavoured with the soyo-bean—the putrefied doleclias-soyo growing in China, im- pregnated with sea-salt. Hot and spicy condiments consist of cloves, cinnamon, Cayenne-pepper, &c.; certain seeds, as carraway, ani- seed, cummin, &c.; acrid roots, as horse-radish, onions, shalots; — all these increase the secretion of saliva and gastric juice, prevent flatulency, warm the stomach, and strengthen it. There are other substances used as stimulants to the stomach, though they cannot properly be called con- diments. 1. Sugar is used as food, condi-