BE BE 28 is made use of in the decoction, or what is commonly termed barley water. The best British spirits are distilled from malt, although barley yields a larger product. BASIL.'—This herb, if not too strong, imparts a very grateful fla- vour, somewhat offensive to the eyes; and, therefore, the tender tops are to be used very sparingly in salad. BEAN, BITTER. —The Faba Amara, or bitter bean, is the seed of an East India plant, which, though poisonous, has a sanctified name. It is Ignatia Amara, Saint Ignatius’s bean, and is not only botanically, but naturally allied to the genus Strychnos. (See Nux Vomica). The bitter bean appears in many of the works that pretend to teach the art of brewing. It is a large pear- shaped berry, with seeds nearly an inch long, and extremely bitter. It is highly deleterious and intox- icating. BEAN, ST. IGNATIUS'S.—See Bean, Bitter. BEEF.—Beef is the flesh of black cattle, i. e. of an ox, bull, or cow, prepared for food. The flesh of the common bull has a strong disagree- able smell, and is dry, tough, and difficult of solution in the stomach. Bull-beef is rarely eaten. But the flesh of the ox, or castrated animal, called ox-beef, is a highly nourishing and wholesome food, readily di- gested by healthy persons, and con- stituting a principal part of the com- mon diet of the inhabitants of this and many other countries. It is the most strengthening of all kinds of animal food. Cow-beef is neither so tender, nourishing, nor so digestible as ox- beef. Beef affords, nevertheless, much good, animating, and strong nourishment; and no other food is equal to the flesh of a bullock of middle age. On account of its heat- ing nature, where there is already an abundance of animal heat, persons of a violent temper, should eat it in moderation. It is peculiarly ser- viceable to hard-working men; and its fat is almost as easily digested as that of veal. It deserves, however, to be remarked, that the tongue, the intestines or tripe, and the sausages made of beef, are more difficult of digestion than the muscular part; and that it would be extremely im- proper to give them to nurses, child- ren, or lying-in women. The meat of old bullocks, fed and kept in a stall when unfit for labour, is scarcely digestible; it is burthensome to the stomach, and, as well as that of old cows (which is still worse), contains no wholesome fluids. Though beef be more frequently eaten boiled, yet it is more nourishing and digestible when roasted. Lastly, beef is almost the only species of animal food with which the stomach is not easily sur- feited, and which is in proper season throughout the whole year. — See Butchers' Meat, to choose—Meat, to carve—Drysalting, &c. The most popular joint of beef is universally allowed to be the loin, which, on account of its having been once actually knighted, by Charles II. in a fit of royal condescension and jocularity, is now denominated sir-loin. This ample joint has given rise to a well-known popular ballad, styled, “ The Roast Beef of Old England;” and it still continues to make a conspicuous figure at the tables of all “ Who hospitably live. And strangers with good cheer receive.” Two sir-loins joined together, without having the back-bone cut asunder, are called a “ baron of beef.” The author of the “ Seasons” places the sir-loin at the head of his autumnal feast:— “First the fuelled chimney blazes wide; The tankaids foam; and the strong table groans Beneath the smoking sir-loin, stretched immense From side to side, in which, with des- perate knife,