FL FL 130 of the rat and smaller species of quadrupeds is very delicate. The larger varieties of the ox and sheep are also inferior to the smaller, as the kyloes of the western islands, the Welsh sheep, and those in the Highlands of Scotland. The whole of the organs of young animals are much more gelatinous than those of the adult and aged, while they again contain more fibrine and extract. Hence the flesh of young animals is more bland and tender, and yields most to the action of boiling water, while that of aged animals is more savoury, even to rankness, and is firm, to toughness. The flesh of very young animals is unpleasantly soft and flabby to the palate—qualities of which every one is a judge; but at no period of life, even at the fatal state, actually unwholesome; consequently there was no reason- able ground for that enactment which provides, that “ no butcher shall kill any calf to sell, being under five weeks old.”—Slat. /. James, c. 22. § 2. 22. Very large cows, with calf, may, indeed are, frequently killed, and the foetus is always sold as very young veal, and by some people preferred to that of a more mature nature. Calves are killed by our butchers at from six to sixteen weeks, but they are reckoned best at ten or twelve. Lambs are generally killed at the age from two to six months. The beef of the larger breed of oxen is in greatest perfection when the animal is about seven years old; that of the smaller breeds, a year or two sooner. Cow-beef, on the contrary, can scarcely be too young. The flesh of a young heifer is highly es- teemed—that of an old fattened cow is very bad. Wedder mutton is in perfection at five years. Ewe mut- ton is best when about two years old. Sucking pigs are killed at about three weeks old: but pork differs from other kinds of butchers’ meat in not requiring age to mellow it; so that swine, for pork, are killed at from six to twelve months old; but for brawn, age is an advantage, or rather, in fact, it is necessary. The buck of the fallow-deer may he killed at six, but it is better at eight years of age. The female, in ge- neral is naturally more tender; but getting tough rather than mellowing by age, is sooner in perfection. The flesh of quadrupeds in the vigour of life is more stringy, and again turns shorter as it advances to old age, when it becomes dry and destitute of nourishment. Young animals also differ from old ones in the distribution of the fat, which, in the latter, is chiefly collected in masses, or layers, external to the muscles; and in the former it is more interspersed among the mus- cular fibres, giving the flesh a mar- bled appearance, which is always a desirable property in butchers’ meat. II.—The sex of animals intended for food, has considerable influence over the quality; that of the female being always more delicate and finer grained than that of the entire male, whose fibres and taste are stronger and more rank. The influence in- deed of the genital organs over the flesh of animals, is very considerable. The flavour of the female is even improved by removing the ovaries, or, as it is termed, by spaying them. Every day the testes are permitted to remain, even though totally inac- tive with regard to their proper func- tion, injures the delicacy of the veal of the bull-calf; an animal which is not castrated until after puberty, always retains much of the rankness and coarseness of the entire male. Daubenton directs the male lambs to be castrated at from eight to fifteen days after they are born, although it is not customary to perform the ope- ration until the age of three weeks, or even five or six days.—(See In- structions pour les Bergers, par J. B. Hazard, <•$■<:.). But the flesh of lambs is never so juicy and good as