298 SM SM which it is generally agreed is espe- cially employed in transmitting to the brain the impressions produced by odoriferous bodies; but there is nothing to prove that the other nerves, which are placed upon the pituitary as well as those near it, may not concur in the same func- tion (Majendie). Physiologists have not yet determined the use of the external nose in smelling; though it would appear to be intended to direct the air charged with odours towards the superior part of the nasal cavities. Persons with deformed noses, or if broken, such as have small nostrils di- rected forwards, have generally little or no smell. The loss of the nose, the consequence of either sickness or accident, causes almost the entire loss of smell; though this sense is re- covered by the use of an artificial nose.—See Odours. SMELT, (Salmo Eperlanus).— Smelts are allowed to be caught in the Thames on the first of November and continue till May. The Thames smelts are the best and sweetest, for two reasons; they are fresher and richer than any other you can get: theycatch them much more plentifully and larger in Lancashire and Nor- folk, but not so good; a great many are brought to town from Norfolk, but barely come good, as they are a fish that should always be eaten fresh; indeed all river fish should be eaten fresh, except salmon, which, unless crimped, eats better the second or third day; but all Thames fish particularly should be eaten very fresh, no fish eats so bad kept. The smelt is considered an excellent fish when fresh, and has a smell similar to that of a newly cut cucumber. When good, the scales have a fine slivery hue, and the body is very stiff; when stale it is flabby. Smelts, and other small Jlsli, to Cook. —Clean your smelts, gudgeons, or sprats, thoroughly in a cloth, fry them plain, or beat an egg in a plate, dip them in it, and then in very fine bread crumbs, that have been rubbed through a sieve, the smaller the fish the smaller the bread crumbs should be. Biscuit powder is still better-. Fry them in plenty of clean lard or dripping; as soon as the lard boils and is still, put in the fish: when they are delicately browned they are done; this will barely occupy a couple of minutes; drain them in a hair sieve placed before the fire, turning them till they are quite dry.—See Salmo Eperlanus. SMOKE-DRYING.—The art of curing animal substances by means of the smoke of a wood fire, &c.— The custom of curing hams in this manner is of very ancient date; it was well known to the Romans; and it is mentioned by Horace. “ Fumosas cum pede pemae.” Sat. ii. 2—117. Although there are many places on the Continent celebrated for the flavour of their hams, Westphalia, nevertheless, stands foremost on the list.—(See Hams). The method of curing bacon and hams in this place is done as follows:—Families killing one or more hogs a year, a common practice Avith private individuals in this part of the Avorld, have a closet in the garret, joining to the chimney, made smoke tight, in Avhich they hang their hams and bacon to be gradually dried by the wood smoke alone, and not by the heat proceed- ing from the fire. The smoke of the fuel is conveyed into the closet by a hple in the chimney near the floor, and a place is made for an iron stopper to be thrust into the funnel of the chimney, to force the smoke through the holes into the closet. The smoke is carried off again by another bole in the funnel of the chimney, above the said stopper, almost at the cieling Avhere it escapes. The upper hole must not be too big, since the upper hole should ahvays be full of smoke, and that formed by wood fires; or in flues the bacon and