208 MI MI coughs, convulsive affections, the putrid sore throat, and in complaints arising from worms. It is also used for fomentations, baths, emollient injections, and" washes for inflamed parts. If intended as a medicine, it should be drunk immediately, or soon after it comes from the cow, because, through boiling, and even by long standing, the best and most nutritious balsamic particles evapo- rate. Milk is used in consumptions, es- pecially in their early stage. In gouty affections, after the paroxysm has subsided; in small-pox, diluted with water, as common drink; in measles, particularly the malignant kind, diluted in the same manner; in cases where mineral and animal poisons have been swallowed — in strangury and dysury, from the ab- sorption of cantliarides after the ap- plication of a blister; in fluor albus, syphilitic affections, and in many spasmodic and nervous diseases. It is generally improper in inflamma- tory fevers, unattended with pustu- lous eruptions, in bilious fever, cases of scrophula, rickets, &c. When milk is used medicinally, it is often sei-viceable to dilute with Pyrmont, Seltzer, or some other pro- per medicinal water; and to prevent acidity, as well as to make it sit easier on the stomach, lime-wateiy and some of the distilled aromatic waters, are occasionally mixed with it. To obviate costiveness, which milk is apt to induce, it is often pro- per to mix brown sugar or magnesia with it, or to boil it with oatmeal, veal broth, &c. The milk to be employed for diet in diseases ought to be taken from healthy and well-nourished animals; for we see in children how much depends upon the health of the mother, and how suddenly they suffer from an unhealthy and passionate nurse. In spring and summer, milk is peculiarly good and whole- some, on account of the salubrious nourishment of the herbs. In winter it is much inferior. It is further necessary that the animal furnishing the milk should be kept in the free air, and have daily exercise. In order to obtain good milk, it would be adviseable for private families who have the opportunities, to keep a cow ; for besides the adulteration of that which is sold, cows are frequently milked at an improper time, by which the milk is much injured, and cannot be wholesome. The best milk is obtained from the cow at three or four years of age, about three months after producing the calf, and in a serene spring morning. Good cow’s milk ought to be white, without any smell; and so fat, that a drop being allowed to fall on the nail will not scatter in divisions. It is lighter, but contains more watery particles lhan the milk of sheep and goats; while, on the other hand, it is more thick and heavy than the milk of asses and mares, which come nearest the consistence of human milk. Ewe’s milk is rich and nourishing; it yields much butter which, however, is so unsavoury that it cannot be eaten. Both this and goat’s milk produce much cheese, which is tough, strong, pungent, and difficult to be digested. As goats are fond of astringent herbs, their milk is superior in strength to that of other animals, hence it has been sometimes used with the most happy success in hysteric cases. Goat’s whey and asses milk are chiefly used in pulmonary complaints; and where asses milk cannot be procured, that of mares may be used as a substitute. Milk consists of caseous, butyra- ceous, and watery parts; that which contains a well-proportioned mixture of the three, is the most wholesome. But this mixture is not always met with in due proportions—frequently the two first, namely, cheese and butter, predominate; and in this case it affords indeed a strong food, but is difficult of digestion. If the