PO PO 258 - 2. To wing Partridges or Quails. —To wing either of these birds nothing more is requisite than to raise the legs and wings. Use salt and powdered ginger for sauce. 3. To allay Pheasants or Teal. — To allay either of these observe the directions given in the preceding, but use salt only for sauce. 4. To lift a Swan.—Slit it quite down the middle of the breast clean through the back, from the neck to the rump. Divide it into two parts, neither breaking nor tearing the flesh. Then lay the halves in a charger with the slit downwards; throw salt upon it, and set it on the table. 5. To display a Crane.—After its legs are unfolded cut off the wings, take them up, and sauce them with powdered ginger, vinegar, salt, and mustard. 6. To dismember a Heron.—Cut off the legs, lace the breast bqne down each side, and open the breast pinion without cutting it off; raise the merry - thought between the breast bone and the top of it, and then raise the brawn, turning it out- wards on both si<jes, hut do not break it nor cut it off. Sever the wing pinion from the joint nearest the body, sticking the pinions in the place where the brawn was. Re- member to cut off the sharp end of the pinion, and supply the place by the middle piece. A capon may be soused, a pheasant allayed, or a bit- tern disjointed, in the same manner, using no other sauce than salt. 7. To thigh a Woodcock. ■—• Raise the legs and wings the same way in which you do a fowl, only open the head for the brains. In this man- ner you untack curlews, mince plovers or snipes, using no sauce but salt. 8. To rear a Goose. — Cut off both legs in the manner of a shoulder of lamb, and take off the belly piece close to the extremity of the breast; lace the goose down both sides of the breast, about half an inch from the sharp bone, divide the pinions and the flesh, first with your knife, which must be raised from the bone, and taken off with the pinion from the body. Then cut off the merry thought, and cut another slice from the breast bone quite through; lastly, turn up the carcass, cutting it asunder, the back above the loin hones. 9. To unbrace Mallards andDucks. —First raise the pinions and legs, but do not cut them off; then raise the merry-thoughts, from the breast, and lace it down both sides with your knife. 10. To carve Fowls.—Roasted or boiled, a fowl is cut up in the same manner as a pheasant, with the ex- ception that the pheasant has the head tucked up under the wing, whereas the head of the fowl is cut off before it is dressed. In a boiled fowl the legs are bent inwards, and tucked into the belly. In order to cut up a fowl, the best way is to take it upon your plate. The legs, wings, and merry-thought, being re- moved, take off the neck bones. All the parts being thus separated from the carcass, divide the breast bone from the back by cutting through the tender ribs on each side from the neck quite down to the tail, lay the back then upwards on your plate, fix your fork under the rump, and lay- ing the edge of your knife" on the back, press it down, then lift up the lower part of the back, and it will readily divide with the help of your knife. In the next place lay the lower part of the back upwards on your plate, and cut off the side bones, or sidesmen as they are generally called, when your fowl will be com- pletely cut up. The epicurean or gourmand morsels are the wings, breast, and merry-thought, and next to them the neck bones and sides- men. The legs are generally consi- dered as coarse, though there was a time when they were esteemed as the best parts of the fowl. The legs of boiled fowls are more tender than those that are roasted; but every