BI BI 36 lity it is unattended with much pain. Geese are killed by splitting their sculls with a knife; this is some- times so very awkwardly performed, that neither are any large vessels divided, nor the nervous energy de- stroyed. Domestic birds are gene- rally kept confined, and fed upon choice food, for some time previous to killing them, and sometimes they are crammed and forced to eat more than they would were they left to themselves. At the last they should always be kept a day without food, that their crops may be empty, as food left in them is apt to give a taint to the flesh. BIRDS, used as Food.—Among the different orders of birds used as food, may be enumerated the follow- ing:— 1. Of the Goose tribe. (Order Anseres). The principal species of this order that are eaten, belong to the genus Anas, of which all the species may be used as food, but the following are most generally em- ployed, viz. Black-backed gull. Brent Goose. Goose. Muscovy Duck. Poachard. Puffin. Razor-bill. Soland Goose. Teal. Tame, or common Duck. Tame Swan. Tufted Duck. Widgeon. Wild Duck. Wild Swan. Of these the swan, the goose, the widgeon, the teal, the wild and tame duck, are the most digestible. The barnacle, the puffin, the soland goose, and the black-backed gull, are very fat, heavy, and have generally a fishy taste. Order Pica:. Of this order two species only are generally used as food. 1. The Rook.—The young of this bird is very similar to the pigeon, but is rather inferior in flavour and digestibility. 2. The Green Wood-pecker.—The flesh of this and some other species, is palatable, but of difficult solution. Order Gralla:. Most of the genera of this order furnish very good and savoury food. The following are commonly eaten: Brown Gallinute. Common Water Hen. Dotterel]. Great Plover, or Green Shank. Green Plover. Grey Plover, or Sand Piper; Lapwing, or Bastard Plover. Long-legged Plover. Purple Water Hen. Purre. Red Godwit. Ruff and Reeve. Snipe. Spotted Snipe. Stone Plover. Thick-kneed Bustard. Woodcock. Many of the above order are highly savoury and delicious, form- ing, under the direction of the prin- cipal officer of the culinary depart- ment, some exquisite bonne-bouches for the dainty gourmand. Order Gallina:. It is from this order we are sup- plied with the principal part of the food derived from birds. The follow- ing species afford excellent nourish- ment, viz.:— Black Cock, or Black Game. Common Fowl. Common Partridge. Crested Curassao. ' Guinea Hen. Peacock. Pheasant. Quail. Quhan. Bed Game. Turkey. Wood Grouse.