VE 368 VE terious quality, can, by proper prepa- ration, be converted into nourishment for man. Those vegetables that are of a mild, bland, agreeable taste are proper nourishment, while those of an acrid, bitter, nauseous nature are improper. We use, indeed, several acrid substances as food, but the mild, the bland, and the agreeable arc in largest proportion in almost every vegetable: such as are acrid, and at the same time of an aromatic nature, are not used as food, but as spices or drugs, which answer the purpose of medicines, rather than any thing else. Although not un- frequently acrid and bitter vegetables are admitted as food; for instance, celery and endive are used in com- mon food, though both are substances of considerable acrimony; but it must be observed, that when we use them, they are previously blanched, which almost totally destroys their acrimony; or if we employ other acrid substances, we generally, in a great measure, deprive them of their acrimony by boiling. In different countries, the same plants grow with different degrees of acrimony. Garlic, for example, sel- dom, in this country, enters one’s food; but in the southern countries, where this plant grows more mild, it is frequent!}' used. The plant which furnishes Cassada, which in its viant state is of a very acrimonious and poisonous nature, affords an instance of the necessity of preparing acrid substances^-even in the hot countries, and there' are other plants, such as wake-roUn, which, in their natural state, are so acrimonious, that they cannot be swallowed with safety, yet, when depraved of that acrimony by boiling, afford good nourishment. Vegetable and Animal Food, dif- ferences between.—Vegetable differs from animal food in several respects. l,sA It has a greater tendency to acidity, whilst animal food of all kinds inclines more to alkalescency and putrefaction. 2nd. With regard to their difference of solution in the stomach, heaviness, is seldom felt from vegetables, except from farinaceous paste, or the most viscid substances; while heaviness from animal food is more frequently noticed, especially when taken in any great quantity. 3rd. With regard to mixture, there is no instance of difficult mixture in vegetables, except in vegetable oils; while in animal food especially, the fatter meats, both from viscidity and oiliness, are in this respect refractory. 4 th. When the putrescency of ani- mal food has proceeded too far, it produces an active stimulus, causing diarrhoea, dysentery, &c. These effects, however, are of rare occur- rence, whereas fx-om vegetable food and its acid, which, united with bile, proves a pretty strong stimulus, they more frequently occur; however, they are of less consequence, if the degree of refrigeration be not very great. 5th. Wherever neither putrefac- tion nor acidity have gone to any great length, animal food keeps the belly more regular. 6th. Vegetable food gives a greater proportion of succulent matter, and when exsiccated by the stomach and intestines, is more apt to stagnate, and produce slow-belly and costive- ness, than stimulating animal food, which before it reaches the large in- testines, where stoppage is made, it has obtained a putrefactive tendency, and gives a proper stimulus: thus, those who are costive from the use of vegetables, when they return to animal food, are considerably ame- liorated in their natural bodily health. Exclusive of the foregoing obser- vations, it is pretty generally known, that animal food is considerably more nutritive than vegetable, al- though they both produce a blood of the same kind, but different in quality. The former affords a more dense, stimulating elastic blood than the latter which stretches, and