YE 402 YE tualling their negroes. The white people also eat them with salted provisions, as well as make puddings of them, when ground down into a coarsish flour. These roots run as large as a man’s thigh; they are of an irregular form, and of a dirty brown colour on the outside, but white and mealy within. They are roasted or boiled for food, and some- times made into bread, for which they are an excellent substitute, as well as for potatoes. These plants grow wild in the woods in the island of Ceylon, and on the coast of Mala- bar, and they are supposed to have been carried from the East to the West Indies. There is a great va- riety in the colour, size, and shape of yams. Some are generally blue, or brown, round or oblong, and weigh from one pound to two. When dressed, they are esteemed nutritive, and easy of digestion, and are pre- ferred to wheaten bread. In taste, they resemble the potatoe, but are more viscous. The negroes boil and mash them; they are also ground and made into bread and puddings. When they are to be kept for some time, they are exposed upon the ground to the sun, as onions are done with us, and when sufficiently dry, are put into dry sand in casks, and placed in a dry vault, where they remain often for many seasons, without losing any of their primitive goodness. YEAST.—A substance generated during the vinous fermentation of vegetable juices and decoctions,' la- sing to the surface in the form of a frothy, ffficculent, somewhat viscid matter, the nature aud composition of which are unknown. Its most remarkable property is that of ex- citing fermentation.—(See Fermen- tation). The following methods of making good yeast are easy and expeditious. Boil one pound of good flour, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt, in two gallons of water, for an hour, and when milk warm, bottle and cork it for use, for which it will be fit in twenty-four hours. One pint of this yeast will make eighteen pounds of bread. Again, to a pound of mashed pota- toes (mealy ones are best) add two ounces of brown sugar1, and two spoonsful of common yeast. Keep it moderately warm while fermenting. N.B. This recipe is, in substance, from Dr. Hunter, who observes that yeast so made will keep well. No sugar is used by bakers, who add the pulp of potatoes to their rising. Another Method.—Boil for half an hour two quarts of water, thickened with about three spoonsful of fine flour, and sweetened with nearly half a pound of brown sugar. When almost cold, put it into a jug, adding four spoonsful of fresh yeast; shake it well together, and let it stand un- covered near the fire for a day to fer- ment. There will be a thin liquor on the top; pour this off; shake the remainder, and cork it up for use. To make a half-peck loaf, a quarter of a pint of the above may be used. To make Yeast for a ivliole Year, at little Expense.—“ In Long Island,” we are told by Mr. Cobbett, “ they make yeast calces. A parcel of these cakes is made once a year. That is often enough. And when you bake, you take one of these cakes (or more, according to the bulk of the batch), and with them raise your bread. The very best bread I ever ate in my life, was lightened with these cakes.” The materials for a good batch of cakes are as follows :—three ounces of good fresh hops, three and a half pounds of rye-flour, seven pounds of Indian corn-meal, and one gallon of water. Rub the hops, so as to sepa- rate them; put them into the water, which is to be boiling at the time, let them boil half an hour; then strain the liquor through a fine sieve into an earthen vessel. While the liquor is hot, put in the rye flour, stirring the liquor well and quickly,