INTRODUCTION. X argument is further confirmed by observing, that carnivorous animals, as lions and tigers, are more fierce than those that live on herbage; and, lastly, that as the sacrificing of animals, which was a most early institution, might have given occasion, first to the tasting, and afterwards to the eating of dressed flesh, which, to a hungry stomach especially, sends forth no unsavoury odour, we can easily account for the commencement of this food; and as most of the Antediluvians were under no restraint of conscience, to prevent their using that kind of food, supposing it had not been expressly permitted, there is little reason to doubt that flesh became a part of common aliment long before the Flood. On the other hand, it is denied that the dominion given to Adam over the brutes, implied a power to kill them. It is cruel, say they, to infer such a power from an ambiguous expression. Isaac gave Jacob dominion over his brethren (Gen. xxvii. 40) ; the Philistines had dominion over Israel (Judg. xiv. 4), which did not imply a right to destroy them. The dominion of man over the beasts of the field appears to have consisted in the use which he might make of their milk, wool, honey, feathers, &c. and of their assistance and service for carriage, agriculture, and defence. It does not follow, because animal food affords a more invigorating nourishment, that therefore it must have been allowed from the beginning; for we find, say they, that though blood* is as nourishing as flesh, yet it was prohibited, not only to Noah (Gen. ix. 3, 4), and the Jews (Lev. xvii. 10, &c.), but also to the stranger (Deut. xii. 23, 24), under pain of death; and since blood is prohibited in every place where flesh is permitted, it follows that the prohibition and permission must have been promulgated at the same time, that is, after the Flood. As regards the argument, that the sons of violence, before the Deluge, must have been stimulated by high food and strong drink, to perpetrate so much wickedness; the opposite side maintains, that men’s morals are corrupted, rather through want of discipline, than by the nature of their food; and that men of healthy and robust constitutions, as the Antediluvians certainly were, under no restraint from laws, human or divine, are the most violent and mischievous savages of nature, let their aliment be what it will. That, in fact, the nations of the earth most addicted to lewdness, rapine, and murder at this day, are frugal in their diet, and forbidden by their religion to use wine, particularly the pirates of Barbary and the wild Arabs. And even in Britain and Ireland, that those who live on bread, milk, cheese, cabbage, and potatoes, are peidiaps no less disposed to rapine and violence * Galinarum ac Columbarum Sanguine nonnulli vescuntur, maxime altilium, qui suum Sanguine haudquaquam est inferior, neque voluptate, neque coctionis facultate.—Galen, Class 2. De alimentifacultat. Lib. 3, cap. 23. Ilomerus quoque caprarum sanguinem in cibo jucundum esse non ignoravit. Ibid, cap. 18.