LA LE 184 are perfectly innocent; a due atten- tion, however, is requisite in the use of them. Prussic acid, the most active poison known at the present day, is contained in several vegetables, such as the cherry laurel, bitter almonds, the peach, its kernels, leaves, and flowers; the kernels of the black cherry; the hark of the bird cherry. As Prussic acid is characterized by an odour similar to that of bitter almonds, it has been conjectured, that all substances possessing this odour contain Prussic acid. The distilled water of the common laurel above-mentioned, has been proved a poison by several experimenters : when applied to wounds in animals, it induced vomiting, convulsions, great prostration of strength, dimi- nished sensibility and death. And when injected into the jugular vein, its action was most rapid and intense. The cherry-laurel water also formed the subject of investigation in a very interesting criminal trial, whether it was or was not the cause of death, in the case of Captain Donellan for the murder of Sir Theodosius Bougliton, in 1780. LAVENDER (Lavendula spica, L.)—The lavender is a hardy under- shrub, anative of the south of Europe, and introduced in 1658. The plant rises from two to four feet high, with hoary linear leaves, slightly rolled back at the edges ; the flowers form terminating spikes, of a blue colour, and appear from July to September. The leaves and flower are powerfully aromatic. Lavender is rather a medi- cinal plant than one used in cookery; though a few plants are kept in every garden. Imitation scent bottles are made by the ladies, of the fragrant spikes. They are also put in paper bags, and placed among linen to per- fume them. Lavender water, a well- known perfume, is distilled from the flowers; for which purpose the plant is extensively cultivated in differ- ent places, but more especially at Mitcham in Surry, and Maidenhead in Berkshire. There are two varie- ties of lavender, both equally good— the narrow-leaved, and broad-leaved. LEAD.—Lead, like copper, is a metal much used for domestic and culinary purposes ; and as it not un- frequently happens that articles of food, as well as water, are tainted by their combinations, and thus ren- dered pernicious to health, we shall here ofl'er some remarks on this metal. Lead is by no means an unfre- quent ingredient in water, which, according to the custom of this country, is preserved in leaden cis- terns, and conducted through pipes of the same metal; though it does not at all follow, on that or this ac- count, the water should be necessa- rily tainted. Where the water con- tains carbonic acid in any quantity, it will be apt to have carbonate of lead suspended in it. It is very rarely the case that lead is in a state of solution in the water; so that in examining a suspected water, the sediment as well as the clear water must be attended to. The best tests for lead are sulphuretted hydrogen, which gives a brownish black pre- cipitate in solutions containing lead; hydriodate of potash forms a yellow precipitate; sulphate of soda a white one, which heated before the blow- pipe or charcoal, affords a globule of the metal.—See Prussiate of Potass. Metallic lead is not injurious to the human system, though, as ob- served, it is readily converted into the state of carbonate, by the contact of aerated water, and it is on this principle that we can explain the injurious effects which are frequently produced from drinking water which has remained in reservoirs of this metal, or passed through pipes of it. Dr. Yeats, in a paper on the water of Tonbridge Wells, mentions that in 1815, lead colics were very fre- quent in that place. A Mr. Taylor