FI FI 120 by being crimped, the muscles sub- jected to the process have both their absolute and specific gravity increas- ed ; when it appears that the water is absorbed, and condensation takes place. It was also observed that the effect was greater in proportion to the vivaciousness of the fish.— From these observations it would appear, that the object of crimp- ing is to retard the natural stiffening of the muscles, and then, by the sudden application of cold water, to excite it in the greatest-possible degree, by which means it both ac- quires the natural firmness and keeps longer. It may also here be ob- served, that rigidity is a certain mark that the fish is perfectly fresh, and has not begun to spoil. See Croonian Lectures on Muscular Mo- tion, by Anthony Carlisle, Esq. F R.S., Philosoph. Trans, for 1805,4to, Lond. p. 23. VI. The operation of castrating and spaying of fish was at one time prac- tised, but only to a very limited ex- tent, and is now entirely laid aside. It was first performed by Mr. Tull, of Edmonton, who appears to have been a fishmonger. His object at first was to prevent the excessive in- crease of fish in his ponds, where the numbers did not permit any of them to grow to an advantageous size. From castration, however, the in- crease was not only prevented, but those which had undergone the ope- ration considerably exceeded their usual size, were more fat, which was no trifling consideration, and were always in season. The operation was performed by making a longitudinal incision from between the two fore fins almost to the anus of the fish, laying aside the intestines, first on one side and then on the other, and transversely dividing the oviduct or vas deferens. The wound in the in- teguments, was then stitched up, and without further attention, few fish died of the operation. — Air. Neil, Philosoph. Transactions, vol. 1, p.584. This operation was most easily per- formed in May, when the ovaries and spermatic ducts are full. Baron de la Loi-in, in France, operated so success- fully, that out of two hundred carp he did not lose four. It was also tried in Germany; where it was likewise observed that those fish, castrated in spring, were in autumn still smaller than the others; that in the following spring they were large and fat, but some people thought not so well tast- ed.—See an account of Mr. Samuel Tull's method of castrating fish, in Philosoph. Trans., vol. xlviii, 4to. Lond. 1755, p. 76. Dietetical objections against fish are numerous. It is said the nourishment derived from them is incomplete; not so stimulating, nor so congenial to the nature of man, as either birds or quadrupeds; some classes of them also, as shell-fish, salmon, &c. are more indigestible than meat; aud fish in general has a stronger ten- dency to putrefaction than meat. But the faults of fish are somewhat cor- rected by the manner in which they are commonly eaten. In a fresh state, sauces and pickles of an acid nature are employed with them, and when dried, the action of the sto- mach is promoted by salt and spices. Fish compared with butchers’ meat, is less nourishing, and the more tough sorts harder of digestion. Hence many are under the necessity, after salmon, &c. to have recourse to a dram of some spirit or other to assist digestion.—See Fish, to Coolc. It has been usual to attribute the cutaneous eruptions which follow the use of fish, to the sympathy existing between the skin and stomach; the effect, however, is merely temporary, as it departs after the digestion of the meal is finished. The operation of an emetic will tend to expedite the disappearance of the affection by re- moving at once the noxious aliment. It should be stated here, neverthe- less, that the only principle, upon which depends the odour of certain