TR TR 346 stances, and to bring tbe organs of digestion into a healthy state; for if this be not premised, the subsequent food and exercise will only be thrown away, and the person will never gain in strength. For this purpose, it is the practice of modern trainers, as it was that of the Athletae of Greece and Rome, first to give an emetic. John Smith, of Yorkshire, gave, as an emetic, twenty grains of ipeca- cuan with one grain of tartar emetic, and this is a very good fonn. Smith’s practice of taking blood from the arm in plethoric habits, is not so much approved of, as blood-letting lias a tendency to produce fat, and it is not, on that account, followed by other trainers; for all appearance of fat is injurious to perfect vigour, and produces oppression of the lungs.* Such persons, therefore, who have been properly trained till they are in high athletic condition, have no fat. The same is true of trained race-horses and game-cocks; for when any of these lias been killed by accident, while at the top of their condition, not a particle of fat has been found in their bodies, making allowance, of course, for the socket of the eye, and other parts, where there is always less or more natural fat, even in the leanest individual. This emetic plan ought, we are of opinion, to be much more frequently used than it is, both in training and in common life; as it not only clears the stomach of stagnant and offensive matters, but it likewise clears the lungs of phlegm, and the pores of the skin of all obstruction, while it also strengthens the stomach by re- lieving it of an oppressive load. It has, we believe, fallen into disuse chiefly from the reluctance of people to the disagreeable operation. * A small bleeding, and subsequently a purgative, to precede the emetic, would certainly be the safest practice. Indeed the propriety of emetics at all is very questionable in training. Ed. A purgative is given a day or two after tbe emetic, in order to unload the bowels. The medicine chiefly used by Mr. Jackson and other cele- brated trainers, is from one to two ounces of Glauber’s salts; the same dose to be repeated three times at the interval of two days. Epsom salts might be preferable, as they are milder in their operation, and do not so much irritate the bowels. Calomel, or the milder preparation of the blue pill would form here a good fore- runner to the salts, by being taken in the dose of three or five-grain pill, the night before at bed-time. In training race horses and game cocks, a similar kind of purgative treat- ment is had recourse to: the cocks have barley, which is to them a scouring food. The next thing to be attended to, after the stomach, the bowels, and the rest of the organs of digestion are brought, by the means recommended, into healthful action, is a course of strengthening diet. The ancient Athletae, as pre- viously observed, esteemed pork to be the most invigorating food; but the modern trainers prohibit this article altogether, as it is apt to purge some people, and recommend only beef, mutton, and fowls. It may be remarked, however, that the pork in ancient times was not house-fed, and bloated by the art of fattening; but was had from the woods and fields, where the swine were fed on roots and acorns, and had abundant exer- cise in the open air. It does not appear either, that the ancients had good beef or mutton.—(See Porlc, Poultry). It has been observed, that men will relish and digest beef much longer, without change, than any other sort of food; and beef has been found to contain more strength- ening nourishment than mutton, though the trainers think mutton is more easily digested. Some doubts, however, are entertained on this sub- ject. The whiter any animal food is, it contains the less of the strength-