SP ST 307 troduced, which shews the number of hundred parts of spirit that any liquors contain above proof, or their deficiencybelow proof.—SecMolasses Spirit, Rum.—See also Malt Spirit. SPRATS. (Clupea Sprattus).— Belly fin nine rayed; flesh dry. Headed, gutted, and pickled in vine- gar, used for anchovies.—(See An- chovies). Salted in brine and not gutted; retailed at Id. per pound— about fifty fish. SPRAT POWDER.—Head and gut the sprats, float them over with vinegar, add a little suet and allspice, bake for two hours, rub them through a hair sieve, and proceed as in making anchovy powder. Sprats made into paste with dried flour, roll out thin, dry, and reduce to a fine powder. SPROUTS AND PITHS.— Edible. Bamboo Cane, Black Cauliflower, Cabbage Tree, Cauliflower, Common Cabbage, Turnip, Early Battersea Cabbage, Green Savoy Cabbage, Golden Purslane, broad leaved, Paper Rush, Siberian Brocoli, Sago Palm Tree, Red Berry, Rough Pinewood. N. B.—Some of these may be con- sulted under their respective heads. SPRUCE.—Spruce beer is a kind of diet-drink, made by infusion or coction of the leaves and small branches of the black and white spruce fir, and reckoned antiscor- butic, and a purifier of the blood. It is much drank in America; and at present considerable quantities are consumed in England. Arbuthnot considered it a good balsamic in some internal disorders. Spruce Beer, White, to malce.—To ten gallons of water add six pounds of the essence of spruce; add yeast, and work as in making ginger beer. Bottle immediately, in half pints. Brown Spruce.—As the white, using treacle instead of sugar. Spruce Beer Powders. — White sugar, one drachm, two scruples; ginger, five grains; natron, pre- pared, twenty-six grains; essence of spruce, ten grains; in each blue paper. Acid of tartai-, half a drachm in each white paper, for half a pint of water. STAG.—See Venison. STALKS, AND SHOOTS.— Edible. Angelica, Asparagus, Burdock, Black Bryom, Chardoon, Common Alexander, Cotton Thistle, English Mercury, Garden Celery, Greater Syrian Dog’s Bean, Milk Thistle, Mountain Sow Thistle, Purple Goatsbeard, Rhapontic Rhubarb, Rosebay Willow Herb, Sea Bindweed, Spatling Poppy, Siberian Nodding Crocus, Smallage, Sweet Azorian Fennel, Sugar Cane, Thracian Bell Flower, Wild Hops, Yellow Goatsbeard. N. B.—Many of these maybe con- sulted under their respective heads. STARCH, (Amidine).— Starch exists abundantly in the vegetable kingdom, and is one of the principal ingredients of most varieties of grain, of some roots, such as the potatoe, and the kernels of leguminous plants. The Indian arrow-root, prepared from the root of the Maranta arun- dinacea, has all the characters of pure starch. Sago, obtained from the pith of an East Indian palm tree (Cycas circinalis), and tapioca, from the root