245 PO PO is attacked, after having taken some food or drink, with violent pain, cramp in the stomach, nausea, vo- miting, convulsive action, and a sense of suffocation — or if he be seized under the same circumstances with vertigo, giddiness, delirium, or unusual drowsiness. All these symp- toms, however, may he the effect of sudden disease, and it should he re- collected by the Examiner, whether an epidemic* or sporadic! disease, re- sembling that of the patient, does not exist. Inquiry should also be made into his strength, mode of life, and habit of body, to ascertain whether he had previously complained of ill health. The time at which the nox- ious substance was taken, and the vehicle in which it was given; the taste or smell that was perceived on its administration, and the food and drink that has been lately swal- lowed, with many more, are all sub- jects which belong to the medical practitioner on being called to an examination, where poison is sup- posed to have been taken or given, as well as the class to which the poison, on being detected, belongs. The following classification of poi- sons, will not only furnish a general theorem for the administration of antidotes, but it will suggest the different forms and modes of admi- nistration of which each particular substance is susceptible; it will shew that certain poisons may occasion death -without coming into contact with anypart of the alimentary canal, and that others will produce little or no effect, however extensively they may be applied to an external sur- face. Class I. By acting through the medium of the nerves, without being * A contagious disease, attacking many people at the same time, at the same season, and in the same place. f An epithet for such infections, and other diseases, as seize a few persons at any time or season. absorbed, and without exciting any local inflammaton. a. By which the functions of the nervous system are destroyed. Acrid. Aconite, Jatropha Curcas. Narcotico-cicrid. Alcohol, Oil of Tobacco. Narcotic. Essential Oil of Almonds,* Camphor, Opium.* [This mark * denotes that the sub- stance against which it is placed may also act by being absorbed: and thisj, that the article has a local motion]. b. The following act by rendering the heart insensible to the stimulus of the blood. Infusion of Tobacco, Upas Antiar. Class II. This class acts by en- tering the circulation, and acting through that medium, with different degrees of force, on the heart, brain, and alimentary canal. Corrosive. Arsenic, Emetic Tartar, Muriate of Baryta. Narcotic. Opium,* Henbane, Lettuce, Prussic Acid. Acrid. Hellebore, Meadow Saffron, Savine, Squill. Narcotico-acrid. Deadly Nightshade,” Camphor,! Hemlock, Cocculus Indicus. Class IIL By a local action on the mucous membrane of the sto- mach, exciting a high degree of in- flammation. Acrid. Corrosive Subli- mate, V erdigris, Muriatic Acid, Oxide of Tin, Sulphate of Zinc, Nitrate of Zinc, Briony, Elaterium,! Colocynth, Gamboge, Euphorbium, Hedge Hyssop, Acids, Alkalis, Cantharides, Croton Tiglium, Ranunculi. There are many diseases and symptoms that are most likely to be y 3