US 3G2 US carver, if the cook, when the fish is boiled, will cut the spine hone across the middle.—See Fish to Carve. TURKEY.—Turkeys were first introduced into Europe from Mexico or Yucatan, and imported into Eng- land, probably from Spain, as early as the year 1524. Since that period they have been successfully reared in this kingdom; so that in 1585 they made a dish even at our rural feasts. But in France they were so rare, that the first eaten in that country appeared at the nuptial feast of Charles XL in 1570. The largest Turkeys in England are reared in the county of Norfolk. Some of them weigh upwards of 30 lbs. when prepared for dressing. Those that are young, tender, fat, and well fed, are the best. TURNIPS.— (Brassica Rapa).— These roots were brought into this country from Hanover; they are now much cultivated as food for cat- tle. Turnips are nutritive, but fla- tulent, and not easy of digestion; they become still more indigestible when of a large size and long pre- served in cellars, lhe least flatu- lent and most nourishing of these roots are the long kind, or Swedish turnip, introduced some years ago into this country. TURTLES. (See Tortoise).— In some countries the turtle is esteemed a delicate dish, and yet, as they contain a large portion of fat, the stomach cannot easily digest them without the addition of much salt. The same observation applies to the legs of frogs of a certain spe- cies, which are also considered as an epicurean dish with our Continental neighbours; also the West Indian guana, a species of lizard, two or three feet long, of a most forbidding appearance; but its flesh is delicate and salubrious, much resembling that of a chicken. Turtle soup is light and highly nutritive, and forms a prominent and very desirable and proverbial dish at our ciyic feasts. “ The usual allowance (of turtle soup) at a turtle feast, is six pounds live weight per head: at the Spanish dinner at the City of London tavern* in August, 1808, 400 guests attended, and 2,500 lbs. of turtle were con- sumed.”—See Bell’s Weekly Messen- ger, August 7, 1803. TURTLE-DOVE.—Another and finer kind of pigeon than either the ring-dove or tame pigeon : the cock is usually of an ash colour, with a black ring round his neck: there are also some of them white, especially in cold countries. The flesh of the turtle-dove is not so. dry as that of the wild pigeon. It is better tasted, and produces good juice: when this bird is fat, tender, and young, it constitutes a delicate food, and is what the poet Martial says of it:— Dum mihi pinguis eris turtur, lactuca val bis, et cochleas tibi habe; perdere nolo famem. Galen also extols the goodness of the turtle, and says, that it is of a food neither too gross nor too slight, and in a word very wholesome. — See Pigeons, Ring-Dove. TYRE.—A composition of butter- milk and milk: made by adding a little butter-milk to warm fresh milk, and letting it stand all night. It is much used in India, being eaten with rice; it is slightly acid and laxative; it is also churned for butter. u. USQUEBAUGH.—The Irish for mad-water. Originally the pure spirit called whisky, a term obtained from usquebaugh. The usquebaugh of the present day is a strong, rich, compound spirit, chiefly taken as a dram, and made of cinnamon, cori- ander, nutmeg, mace, aniseed, citron, thyme, balm, savory, mint, rosemary, Spanish liquorice, sugar candy, raisins, currants, and dates, infused in brandy.