INTRODUCTION. XIV excite vomiting, and clear out the stomach.* But Herodotus, a judicious and observing man, after having noticed that the Egyptians were the most healthy people of Africa, attributes their advantage less to these customs than to the uniform temperature of the climate they inhabit, “ where,” he observes, “ the seasons are not subject to any vicissitudes.’’ Notwith- standing all this, and although the regimen of Pythagoras and the institu- tions of Lycurgus had preceded, by a great number of years, the age of Hippocrates and Plato; although Iccus, a physician of Tarentum, had some years before recommended the union of gymnastics with the most sober regimen, to preserve health; although he had acquired sufficient reputation as to have applied to him the powerful expression of Iccus's meal, in allusion to its simplicity; Plato, however, does not less, on this account, attribute to Herodotus the invention of medical gymnastics, and Hippocrates assigns to himself the honour of having determined with exactitude the proportions of regimen, either for a state of health or disease. This appears in his first and second books “ of the regimen of men in health,” and in that entitled “ of regimen in acute diseases.” In the latter, Hippocrates says, that the ancients have written nothing on diet worthy of being mentioned, and they have passed over this important article in silence. In the first book of diet, Hip- pocrates begins by exposing how much the labours of the ancients on this subject have left behind them untouched—and at the close of the preamble he says, “ I will make known that which none of my predecessors even undertook to demonstrate.’’ Hippocrates also lays claim to the merit of having determined the times and signs which precede deranged health, and the means of preventing the consequences by suitable and respective pro- portions of food and exercise. The elegant Celsus, in the first book of his work, treats of the regimen of strong, healthy, and robust people; and afterwards lays down some excellent rules to people of a weak and infirm constitution ; and lastly, those dictated by the seasons, or such as are useful under different circum- stances of life. In the first chapter, two remarkable rules are laid down, which it would be well for those to whom they are addressed to study. His general rule is, that the healthy and well-formed man ought not to restrict himself to any invariable law—a very sage advice, and from which a proposition results worthy of remark, which some authors have rather unreasonably censured, from not having generally conceived the spirit in which it is formed:—“Modo plus justo, modo non amplius assumere that is, sometimes to exceed the just measure of necessity, sometimes to restrict ones-self to that measure. This is, in fact, the true meaning of the word justo. Sebigius has made no allusion to it, when he reproaches Celsus with being the apostle of gluttons and drunkards. He is certain that the strict and defined law of want, is not made for those who enjoy robust * See jtrt, on Thainixp, p. 343, et seq.