CR 88 CR flays after this the rear guard fol- lows ; a straggling undisciplined trihe of males and females, neither so ro- bust nor so numerous as the former. The night is their chief time of proceeding; hut if it rains by day, they do not fail to profit by the oc- casion, and they continue to move forward in their slow uniform man- ner. When the sun shines, and is hot upon the surface of the ground, they make an universal halt, and wait for the cool of the evening. When they are terrified, they march hack in a confused disorderly man- ner. They try to intimidate their enemies, by often clattering their nippers together, as if to threaten those that disturb them. But though they thus strive to be formidable to man, they are much more so to each other; for they are possessed of one most unsocial property, which is, if any of them by accident is maimed in such a manner as to be incapable of proceeding, the rest fall upon and devour it on the spot, and then pursue their journey. When, after a fatiguing march and escaping a thousand dangers, they have arrived at their destined port, they prepare to cast their spawn. The peas are as yet within their bodies, and not excluded, for the creature waits the benefit of sea water to help the deli- very ; for this purpose, the crab has no sooner reached the shore, than it eagerly goes to the edge of the waters, and lets the waves wash over its body two or three times. This seems only a preparation for bring- ing their spawn to maturity; for, without further delay, they with- draw to seek a lodging upon land: in the mean time the spawn grows larger, is excluded out of the body, and sticks to the barbs under the tail; this bunch is seen as big as a hen’s egg, and exactly resembling the roes of herrings; in this state of pregnancy they once more seek the shore, for the last time, and shaking off the spawn into the water, leave accident to bring it to ma- turity. At this time whole shoals of hungry fish are in expectation of this annual supply; the sea to a great distance seems black with them, and about two-thirds of the crabs’ eggs are immediately devoured by these rapacious invaders. Those that escape are hatched under the sand, and soon after, millions at a time of these little crabs are seen quitting the shore, and.slowly tra- velling up to the mountains. The old ones are not so active to return; they become so feeble and lean, that they can hardly creep along, and the flesh at that time changes its colour. Most of them, therefore, are obliged to continue in the flat parts of the country till they recover, making holes in the earth, which they cover at the mouth with leaves and dirt. There they cast their old shells, and lie quite naked, almost without motion, for six days together, when they become so fat as to be delicious food. These crabs are of considerable advantage to the natives, and the slaves very often feed entirely upon them. In Ja- maica, where they are found in great plenty, they are considered as one of the greatest delicacies of the place, yet still the eating of them is at- tended with some danger, for even of this kind many are found poi- sonous, being fed, as it is thought, upon the manchineel apple, and when- ever they are found under that noxious plant, they are always rejected with caution. It is thus with almost all the productions of those luxuriant climates; however tempting they may be to the appetite, they hut too often are found destructive, and scarce a delicacy among them that does not carry its own alloy. CREAM.—One of the component proximate ingredients of milk. It is exceeding!)' nourishing, hut too fat and difficult to be digested in a se- dentary life. It rises to the surface of the milk, after it has stood for