243 PO PO be those substances which are known by physicians as capable of altering or destroying, in a majority of cases, some or all of the functions of life. (Vol. iii. p. 449). Another interesting question is the manner in which poisons act. This has been a subject of fruitful discus- sion among modern physiologists, and our own country lias not been wanting in ardent examiners respect- ing it. It is not necessary here to enlarge on the various results ob- tained by experimentalists, nor to enter into a discussion concerning the weight of testimony in favour of the blood-vessels, the nerves, or the lymphatics, as the medium by which poisons produce their effects. The remarkable resistance that is some- times observed to the action of poison, deserves some allusion. In- stances of this nature are so numer- ous, that a selection of the more striking will be sufficient to illus- trate the position. Among the Hungarians, the seeds of the palma christi, are often taken, to the amount of thirty-six grains, without any inconvenience; and some of the French peasantry use a decoction of colocynth as a common purgative. The common dose of the extract of monkshood (aconitum Napellus) is one or two grains, and it is deemed dangerous to use it medicinally in larger quan- tities ; but Fodere was consulted concerning the' case of Charles IV. of Spain, who, while residing at Marseilles, was attacked with a rheumatic gout, andhe recommended the medicine in question. M. Soria, the king’s physician, replied, that, at a former period, it had been ad- ministered for a length of time, and to such an extent, that the patient took a drachm daily, without any good or bad effects. This monarch was now sixty-two years of age, athletic and had an excellent appe- tite.—Fodere, vol. iii. p. 468. The fumes of mercury, lead, and copper, are well known to be injuri- ous to those who inhale them, yet no fact is better established than that of workmen resisting their effects for many years. “ In the mines of Peru,” says Humboldt, “ from five to six thousand persons are employ- ed in the amalgamation of the mi- nerals, or the preparatory labour. A great number of these individuals pass their lives in walking bare- footed over heaps of brayed metal, moistened and mixed with muriate of soda, sulphate of iron, and oxide of mercury, by the contact of the atmosphere and the solar rays. “ It is a remarkable phenomenon,” he adds, “to see men enjoy the most perfect health.'’ Francis’s Inaugural Dissert, on Mercury, p. 27. Again, in all the Savoyard and Swiss alps, milk is collected and kept in small copper vessels, and in Ger- .many, preserved fruits are put into vessels of this metal, in order to give them a green colour, and all without inducing any injury. Fodere, vol. iii. p. 449. The most astonish- ing case, however, on record, is that of the old man at Constantinople, who had been in the habit, for thirty years, of swallowing enormous quan- tities of corrosive sublimate, until his dose came at last to be a drachm daily. He was living in 1800. These exceptions to general rules are best explained on the principle of idiosyncrasy, or of habit, render- ing the system innoxious to their use. The quantity of opium taken daily by many of the Turks, is a striking proof of the latter. And such extraordinary instances should, above all, never influence the me- dical jurist, nor lead him to the conclusion, that because one person has taken a particular substance without any ill effects, it is, there- fore, not a poison. The academy of Berlin was consulted, in 17.52, whether copper was a poison.—(See Copper). • They replied, that they did not consider it decidedly so, since several had taken it with im- punity, either separately or mixed