BE 32 BI ment; it is used even before their kings. When foreign ambassadors are admitted to an audience of the king, he is usually found sitting cross-legged on the ground on a carpet, having an officer in waiting, who holds his betel, which he chews continually, throwing out the husks and the spittle it produces. The greatest honour he can do them is to invite them to taste his betel. The Indians say it fastens the gums, preserves the teeth, makes the breath sweet, is good for the stomach, pro- motes digestion, prevents wind and vomiting, to which they are very subject; and, lastly, prevents the scurvy. Notwithstanding all these real or imaginary properties, thei'e are few Europeans who can accustom themselves to it. To many it occa- sions sickness, and others it perfectly intoxicates, although that sensation does not last long.—See Areca. BEET-ROOT.—This root con- tains a large proportion of saccharine matter. By some experiments made at Berlin by M. Achard, it was proved, that about fourteen pounds’ weight produced one pound of raw sugar, exceedingly sweet, and with- out an intermixture of any other taste. Independent of this consi- deration, the beet is a valuable root, both in an economical and culinary point of view. It possesses mild aperient properties, and ought to be more frequently eaten, for supper, by those of costive habits. Although it is not hard to digest, yet some less flatulent root, such as parsley, celery, or even potatoes, ought to be used, together with the beet—an addition which will render it not only more palatable, but also better adapted to the stomach and bowels. The beet is extensively employed abroad for the purpose of obtaining sugar, which it produces superior to either East or West India sugar in colour, though deficient in specific strength. The endeavours that were made in France, during the war, to pro- cure sugar from the beet-root in sufficient quantity to satisfy the de- mands of the population, were very successful, and it was procured of excellent quality. The peace, how- ever, by re-opening the ports, and allowing the introduction of the cane sugar, tended to paralyse that branch of agricultural industry, for which, however, some strong exer- tions have been made by the philo- sophers of France. The following is given as the statement of the ex- pense and returns of the manufac- tory of M. Chaptal; and if there are no unstated objections to its intro- duction, it is difficult to account for the preference given to cane sugar. Forty-five French acres were sown with beet-root, and the produce equall- ed 700,000 lbs. CHARGES. FRANCS. Sowing, pulling, carriage, and expense of the ma- nufactory 7,000 Workmen 2,075 Fuel 4,500 Animal charcoal . . . . 1,100 Repairs, interest of capital, &c 4,000 Francs 18,675 produce. lbs. Rough sugar of the first crystallization . . . 29,132 Sugar obtained by further processes from the mo- lasses 10,960 Total of rough sugar . . 40,092 Besides which there were 158,000 lbs. of refuse, which was excellent food for cattle, and a large quantity of exhausted molasses, which might be converted into spirit. BILE.—A yellow, intensely bitter fluid, secreted from the blood in the liver, collected in the gall-bladder, and discharged into the lower end of the duodenum by means of the common choledoch duct which opens