TA 323 TA fiun contained in the two following ines:— Semina nulla damns, nec semine nasci- mur ullo; Sed qui nos mandit semen habere putat. Avicen believed that swine-bread produced apoplexy and palsy. SYRUP. — The name syrup is given to sugar dissolved in water. Syrups are generally made with the juice of vegetables or fruits, or by adding vegetable extracts to other substances. To keep syrups with- out fomenting, it is necessary to attend to their temperature, and to keep as near 55°F. as possible. A good cellar will ensure this purpose; for there are few summers in which the temperature of such places rises to 60S F. Pharmaceutists have as- certained, that a solution prepared by dissolving two parts of double refined sugar in one of water, or any watery fluid, and boiling the solution a little, forms a syrup which neither ferments nor crystallises; and this proportion may be considered as the basis of all syrups, and seems to be the degree of boiling syrup called smooth (see Sugar) by the confectioners. After having squeezed the fruit for the syrup, leave the mass for several days undisturbed: a slight fermenta- tion takes place; this will separate the mucus and rich parenchyme, which rendered the juice viscid. These matters subside gradually, and very often the liquor appears per- fectly clear. The liquor indeed may be separated by decantation: then keep what remains under the press, and this, though it will not produce a juice so clear as the preceding, very soon will become so, especially if put into bottles immediately it is expressed, and suffered to ferment for some days. T. TAMARINDS.—The fruit of the tamarind-tree, which grows in the East and West Indies. The oriental sort is drier and darker coloured than the occidental: the former is sometimes preserved without the ad- dition, but the latter has always an admixture of sugar. They are more frequently employed for medicinal purposes, than as an article of diet; but the Africans, and the people of many of the oriental nations, where they are common, make them into a sort of confection with sugar, which they eat as a delicacy, and which cools them in the violent heats of their climates. The pulp of this fruit is one of the most grateful acids; which, if taken in the quantity of from half an ounce to an ounce, or more, proves gently purgative. By its acidity, it is well calculated to quench thirst, and allay immoderate heat; for this purpose, it is in common use in inflammatory disorders, and correct- ing putrefaction.—Sec Imperial. TANNIN.—A substance existing abundantly in the excrescences of several species of the oak, called gall-nuts; in the bark of most trees ; in some inspissated juices, such as kino and catechu; in the leaves of the tea-plant, sumach, whortleberry, and in all astringent plants, being the chief cause of the astringency of vegetable matter. It is frequently associated with gallic acid, as in gall nuts, most kinds of bark, and in tea; but in kino, catechu, and cinchona bark, no gallic acid is present. The most characteristic property of tannin is its action on a salt of iron and a solution of gentianine. With the peuxide of iron, or better still with the protoxide and paroxide mixed, tannin forms a black coloured com- pound, which, with the gallate of iron, constitute the basis of writing ink and black dye. For the discovery of artificial tannin, an interesting substance, by Mr. Hatchet, — (see Philosophical Transactions for 1805 and 1806). Is it not an unfrequent practice to administer medicines