WI WI 399 wines of respective countries, &c., see those of the following, marked thusf, under their respective heads: t t t t t t t Lebanon, Lesbian, Madeira, Malaga, f Malmsey, Muscadine, Opimian, Palm, Port, Rhenish, Sack, Schiras, Sherry, Spanish, Tokay. + t Burgundy wine Champagne, Chios, Claret, Constantia, Corsican, Domestic, English, Falernian, Florence, French, German, Greek or Turkey Helbon, Hock, Italian, It would appear that the ancients were aware that lead both amelio- rated harsh wine and preserved it from acidity, and that the acid of the wine had the power of dissolving it; for, when the Gx-eek and Roman wine-merchants waxxted to know whether their wine was spoiled, they immersed in it a plate of lead, which could only he to observe whether the colour of the lead was changed by erosion. They were also acquainted with a mode of impi-oving and cla- rifying wine, by boiling it with lime or gypsum; a method supposed to be still practised in some parts of Spain, and in the island of Zante: but it is considered no farther pre- judicial than as it tends, if used in too large a quantity, to deprive the liquor of its spirituous parts. That the custom is of veiy ancient date in the former country, is proved by a decree of the states of Arragon, in 1348. The px-esence of metals in wine may be detected by the ap- plication of the arsenical liver of sulphur; but its use is not decisive of the particular kind employed, as it precipitates all metals black with- out distinction. Among the innocent articles with which wine has been mixed, we find mustard and mug wort mentioned in the year 1484; and in the follow- ing century, milk was included in an imperial ordinance against adul- teration. The effects of the latter, however, are only to clarify the liquor, and to render the tint moi-e pale, and are otherwise wholly im- perceptible : it was known to the ancient Gx-eeks ; and is still used in small quantity, and for white wine alone. The Greeks and Romans used also to boil much of their wine until only a certain portion of it remained; aixd when by this opera- tion it was deprived of some of its watery particles, it was mixed with honey and spices. This method, with the exception of the mixture of spice and honey, is still applied to some kinds of new wine in Italy; where it is now, however, used fox- salad and sauces, xxnder the name of musco catto. It is said to be also employed iix the preparation of the Spanish and Hxxngariaxx sweet wines; but the fact is, it is obscured in considerable doubt. There is also another mode of preparing wine, which cannot properly be called adulteration, bxxt which was formerly considered so unwholesome, as to have been prohibited in Gennany in 1472. It is effected by stopping the fermentation at a certain pex-iod, by which the ox-iginal sweetxxess of the gx-ape is in a great part retained, aixd on being exposed to the air, the fermentation recommences. The prejudice against this method no longer exists, and it is frequently employed iix Gex-many and France. The common appellation of wine thus tx-eated, is stum wine; bxxt the French, who prepare considerable quantities in this manner, at Bor- deaux, designate it vin en rage. Brazil wood, or the husks of elder- berries, and bilbcx-ries, ax-e employed to impart a deep rich purple tint to red port of a pale red coloxxr; gyp- sum is used to render cloudy wine transparent: an additional astrin- gency is imparted to immature red wines by means of oak-wood saw-