PI 237 PH in Greenland. A long abstinence from drink causes an acrid and co- loured sweat; and the drinking a great quantity of cold water in sum- mer, a limpid and thin sweat. 5. Medicines. The perspiration of those who have taken musk, even moderately, and assafaetida, or sul- phur, smells of their respective na- tures. 6. Region of the body. The sweat of the head is greasy; on the fore- head it is more aqueous; under the arm-pits more unctuous; and be- tween the toes it is very fetid, form- ing in the most healthy individual blackish sordes. 7. Diseases. As regards diseases, it varies considerably in regard to quantity, smell, and colour; for the perspiration of gouty persons is said to turn blue vegetable juices to a red colour. Some men also have a lucid sweat; others a sweat tinging their linen of a sky-blue colour. The uses of both the insensible and sensible perspiration are to carry off superfluous materials, eleminate and purify the fluids, to moisten the ex- ternal surface of the body, to coun- terbalance the suppressed pulmonary transpiration of the lungs, for when this is suppressed, the cutaneous one is increased; to supply a watery se- cretion, for when the urine is defi- cient, the perspiration is more abun- dant, &e. PERSICA.—The peach. — See Almonds and Peach. PHLEGM.—A thick and tena- ceous mucus secreted in the lungs. Chem. Water from distillation. PHG5NIX.—The name of a genus of plants. Class, Dicecia; order, Trian. PIICENIX DACTYLIFERA.— The systematic name of the date- tree. (The Phoenix—frondibuspinna- tis ; foliolis ensiformibus complicate of Linn aim). The fruit is called dactylus or date. It is fleshy, of an oblong round form, about an inch and a half long, and one in diame- ter, and has in its centre a hard stone. Before they are ripe, dates are rather rough and astringent; but when perfectly matured, they are much of the nature of figs. (See Fig). The dates of Senegal are much esteemed, and possess a more sugary and agreeable flavour than those of Egypt and other places.—See Dates. PHYSIOLOGY.—A science which has for its object the know- ledge of the phenomena proper to living bodies. It is divided into vege- table physiology, which is employed in the consideration of vegetables; into animal or comparative physio- logy, which treats of animals; and into human physiology, of which the chief object is man. PICKLE.— A brine or liquor, commonly composed of salt, saltpe- tre, vinegar, &c.; sometimes spices are added, in which meats, fruit, and other articles are preserved and sea- soned.—S ecDrysalting, Hams, Sugar, in addition to the following:— 1.. Piclcle for Meats. Brown sugar, bay salt, common salt, of each two pounds; saltpetre, eight ounces; water two gallons. Used to pickle meats, which it gives a fine red colour, while the sugar renders them mild and of an excellent flavour. 2. Eight pounds of sugar, and four ounces of saltpetre, boiled for a few minutes with four gallons of water, skimmed and allowed to cool, form a strong pickle, which will preserve meat completely immersed in it. The same may be used re- peatedly, provided it be boiled up occasionally with additional salt to restore its strength.—See Pyrolig- neous Acid. Fish may be pickled either by dry-salting, or in a liquid pickle. The former method is employed to a great extent on the banks of New- foundland. When a liquid pickle is used, the fish, as fresh as possible, are to be gutted or not, and without delay plunged into the brine in quan- tity so as nearly to fill the reservoir,