AN AP 18 observed, tliat the most suitable place for judging of the heat of the body is the arm-pit. They noticed nearly two degrees and a half of difference between the heat of a young man and that of a young girl; the heat of her hand was a little less than 97£°, that of the young man 98.4°. The same person observed great dif- ferences of heat in the different tem- peratures. There are also diurnal variations. The temperature may vary two or three degrees in the course of the day. ANIMAL JELLY.—The jelly of animals being the very substance which renovates the solid parts, it is obviously serviceable and necessary to nourish the human body. As, however, each kind of animal has its peculiar jelly and fat, which can be nourishing only when assimilated to our nature by the digestive or- gans, and as the different parts of animals require different degrees of digestion, we shall add the following details on this subject. Experience informs us that the flesh and intes- tines of young animals afford a thin, easily digestible, and nutritive jelly. Old animals, hard and tough flesh, cartilages, sinews, ligaments, mem- branes, membranous, thick intes- tines, and the sinewy parts of the legs produce a strong and viscid jelly, which is difficult to be digested, and assimilated to our fluids. The more healthy the animal is, the stronger will be the jelly, and the more nourishing its fluids. The most nutritious flesh is that of ani- mals living in the open air, having much exercise and a copious mass of blood, and particularly if they are kept in warm dry places. The al- kali contained in the flesh of carni- vorous animals is the cause of the indifferent nourishment it affords, and of the injurious consequence at- tending its use. From the similarity in the structure of quadrupeds to that of man, it may be conjectured that their jelly is not unlike ours ; that such as are fed upon milk give the best nourishment; and that the flesh of female animals is more easily digested, but less nutritious, than that of the castrated males, which in every respect deserves the preference. See Gelatine,—Oils, Ani- mal. ANIMAL LIFE.—The result of the vis vitce, by which life is com- menced and maintained. The foetus in the womb is said to reach its ani- mating point when it begins to act as a real animal, after the female that is enceinte with it has quickened. Phy- siologists are not agreed as to the time the foetus becomes animated, or the female quickened. Some compute it at forty days after con- ception; others fix it at about the term of gestation. ANIMAL OILS.—See Oils. ANISEEDS. — The plant pro- ducing aniseeds is a native of Egypt, Crete, and Syria, from whence the seeds are brought. What grow in this country are good for nothing. They have an agreeable aromatic odour, and their taste is gratefully warm, with a degree of sweetness. They are carminative, in flatulency, indi- gestion, and the colick, particularly of infants. See Carminatives. APPLES.—All apples contain more or less sugar, acid {malic), mucilage, soft woody fibre, and wa- ter; and, according as the one or other of these prevail, their qualities must be estimated. The aroma of apples, on which their flavour seems to depend, is probably a mild stimu- lant, which may assist digestion; and if this be correct, those which have the finest flavour will be most easily digested, — a circumstance which, in other cases, seldom hap- pens. The different varieties, as the rennet, and some American sorts, may be mentioned as having this quality, while, at the same time, they contain a large proportion of sugar and mucilage, and are conse- quently nutritive. The dry, mealy, j