GR GR 154 best when eaten on an empty sto- mach, with a small quantity of bread. Besides their slightly nourishing qua- lity, it is said they cool the blood and animate the nerves.— (See Straw- berries). Their too frequent use causes the colic, generates wind, and attacks the spleen, producing consi- derable uneasiness and pain. Young foxes are remarked to grow very fat in autumn, in those places where there are vines; and their flesh at this time is tender and delicate. But when the vintage is over, these ani- mals become lean, and their flesh loses the good savour it had acquired before. There are also many other animals who grow fat in grape time, which shews that this fruit is very nourishing. Grapes are dried in the sun and oven, in order to preserve them. The large ones were named Damascenes, and the smaller ones Corinths. Dry grapes are more wholesome than others, being divested of the tenacious phlegm they before possessed. Green grapes are preserved to make them more pleasant, and that they may keep the longer. They are cooling and moistening. With the juice of green grapes, water and sugar, a cooling beverage is made, which is a pleasant drink during excessive heat. Grapes, full and ripe, agree with every constitution, provided they be not used in excess. Old people, how- ever, ought to use them abstemiously, for they weaken them too much, and increase the defluxions which their age too frequently subjects them to. GRAS, (au).—Au gras, implying in cookery, that the article specified is dressed with meat gravy. GRATIN.—A layer of some par- ticular article spread over a silver or any other dish that will bear the fire, and placed on a stove or hot ashes until it burns to it.—Dolby. GRAVY.—The juice of the mus- cular parts of animals. When, for instance, the muscular part of meat is gradually exposed to a very mo- derate degree of heat, sufficient to brown the outer fibres, the gelatine, osmazome, and other animal juices of it, become disengaged and sepa- rated in a liquid state, and constitute a fluid of brown colour, possessing a highly savoury and grateful taste. Hence gravy is the soluble constitu- ent or liquid part of meat, which spontaneously exudes from animal flesh, when gradually exposed to a continued heat sufficient to corrugate the animal fibre. Flavouring vege- tables or aromatic spices are often added and fried with the meat, such as shred onions, carrots, celery, till they are tender, together with some spices and the usual condiments. To extract gravy the meat is cut into thin slices, or it is scored, and the fibres are bruized with a mallet. It is then usually seasoned with pepper and salt, and exposed in a pan con- taining a small quantity of butter, or other fat, or, in fine, without any fat, to the action of a gradual heat, just sufficient to brown the outer fibre strongly. The juices of the meat which are thus copiously disengaged during the process of frying, are suf- fered to remain exposed to the action of heat till they have assumed the substance of thin cream, and a brown colour. A small quantity of water is then added, to re-dissolve the extracted substance, and after the whole has been suffered to simmer with the spices and roots for a short time, together with air additional quantity of water, the liquid is strained through a sieve. — See Browning. If the gravy he intended for made dishes, it is customary to give it the consistence of cream by means of thickening paste.—(See Paste). The meat is capable of furnishing an ad- ditional quantity of gravy. It is therefore covered with water and suffered to simmer for about an hour, or till the fluid is reduced to one-luilf its hulk. One pound and a quarter of lean beef, or one pound and a half