do not produce such rich juices as the river pike. The pike lives to a great age, a proof of which is afforded by the emperor Frederic II. having thrown one into a pond, to the neck of which a brass ring was attached, with a Greek inscription upon it, of which the following is a translation: “ I am the fish that was thrown into this pond by the hands of the emperor Frederick the Second, on the 5th of October.” It is affirmed that the pike here alluded to lived in the pond 262 years, and at the expiration of that time he was found with the same ring. ** PILCHARDS.—The pilchard is a small salt water fish, larger than an anchovy, butsmaller than the herring, which in other respects it resembles. They abound in the Mediterranean sea, but are a fish of passage. The chief pilchard fisheries are along the coast of Dalmatia, in the Gulf of Venice; on the coast of France, be- tween Bellisle and Brest, and along the"'shores of Cornwall and Devon- shire. It is a saying among the Cornish-men, that the pilchard is the smallest fish in size, the most in number, and the greatest in gain, of any they take out of the sea—an observation amply confirmed by Bor- lasse’s account of this fishery. The number obtained al one shooting of the net, is amazingly great. The west country people make a pie of pilchards in the following manner : They clean the white part of some large leeks; scald them in milk and water, and place them in layers in a dish, placing between each layer two or three salted pilchards, which have been soaked for some hours the day before. The whole is then covered with a good plain crust. On taking the pie out of the oven, the side crust is lifted up with a knife, and empty out all the liquor, which they supply with lialf-a-pint of scalded cream. PIMENTO. — Commonly called Jamaica pepper. In smell it resem- bles a mixture of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, whence it has received the name of allspice. It is milder than the East India pepper, and is an useful addition to broths and stewed dishes, when used, as it ought to be, in whole grains.—See Pepper. PIMPINELLA.—See Burnet. PINE-APPLES, (Bromelia Ana- nas).—The best come from warm climates; Africa, Spain, and south of France. They are nourishing, and good for consumptive patients, though thepulp is somewhat difficult of diges- tion. They agree best with people of a dry and bilious temperament. Confectioners preserve them with sugar, after having exposed them for a time to a certain degree of heat in an oven, in order to purify them. PLANTAIN TREE. — (Musa Paradisiaca, L. ; called also Musa * Palmalmmilis, FicusIndica, Bida and Platanus). It grows spontaneously in many parts of India, but has been immemorially cultivated by the In- dians in every part of the continent of South America. It is an herba- ceous tree, growing to the height of fifteen or twenty feet. The fruit is nearly of the same size and shape of ordinary cucumbers, and when ripe of a pale yellow colour, of a mealy substance, somewhat clammy, with a sweetish taste, and will dissolve in the mouth without chewing. The whole spike of fruit often weighs forty or fifty pounds. When plantains are introduced to * The word Musa is corrupted or rather refined, from Maun, the Egyp- tian appellation of this valuable plant, and is made classical in the works of Linnaeus, by an allusion to Mxisa or muse; or with much greater propriety to Antonius Musa, the physician of Augustus, who, having written on some botanical subjects, may justly be com- memorated in the above name. 1 he name of a genus of plants: Class I Polygamia; order, Monoecia. I he plan- ■ tain and banana tree.