148 GL GL oxygenated gelatine, with a small quantity of extractive matter. GLAZE.—A kind of jelly. It is usually made from a reduced con- somme, or juices from the bottoms of white braized meats. It is directed to be preserved in jelly pots. GLAZE, (to fall to a).—A term in cookery, used to reduce sauces till they become a jelly, and adhere to the meat. GLAZE, GLACE, or ICE.—A composition made of the white of eggs, beaten with powdered sugar. GLIADINE, (Derived from a Greek word, signifying glue.)—One of the constituents of vegetable glu- ten. Taddey, an Italian chemist, has lately discovered that the gluten of wheat may be decomposed into two principles, which he has dis- tinguished by the names gliadine and zymome. They are obtained in a separate state by kneading the fresh gluten in successive portions of alco- hol, as long as that liquid continues to become milky when diluted with water. The alcoholic solutions being set aside, gradually deposit a whitish matter, consisting of small filaments of gluten, and become perfectly transparent. Being now left to slow evaporation, the gliadine remains behind, of the consistence of honey, and mixed with a little yellow resin- ous matter, from which it may be freed by digestion in sulphuric tether, in which gliadine is not sensibly soluble. The portion of the gluten not dissolved by the alcohol is the zymome.—See Zymome. Its properties are, that when dry, it has a straw yellow colour, slightly transparent, and in thin plates, brittle, with a slight odour, similar to that of honey-comb, and when moderately heated, gives out a smell similar to that of roasted apples. In the mouth it becomes adhesive, and has a sweet- ish and balsamic taste. It is soluble in boiling alcohol, which loses its transparency in proportion as it cools, and then retains only a small quan- tity in solution; it becomes milky when mixed with water, and is precipitated in white flocks by the alkaline carbonates. It i3 scarcely affected by the mineral and vegetable acids. Dry gliadine dissolves in caus- tic alkalies, and in acids. It swells upon red hot coals, and then contracts in the manner of animal substances. It burns with a pretty lively flame, and leaves behind it a light spongy charcoal, difficult to incinerate. In some respects, gliadine ap- proaches the properties of resins, but differs from them in being insoluble in sulphuric aether. It is very sensi- bly affected by the infusion of nutgall. It is capable of itself of undergoing a slow fermentation, and excites fer- mentation in saccharine substances. GLUE.—An inspinated jelly pro- cured from the parings of hides and other offals, by boiling them in water, straining through a wicker basket, suffering the impurities to subside, and then boiling it a second time. Shreds or parings of vellum, parch- ment, or white leather, make a clear and almost colourless glue. GLUTEN.—Gluten is procured by a similar process to that of pre- paring starch. It is present in most kinds of grain, such as wheat, barley, rye, oats, pease, and beans; but the first contains it in the largest pro- portion ; and this is the reason that wheaten bread is more nutritious than that made with most other kinds of flour. M. Taddey, an Italian chemist, has succeeded in obtaining two distinct principles from gluten, to one of which he has given the name of Gliadine from r/^a> gluten, and to the other that of Zy- mome, ‘CvllV> a ferment.—Ann. Phi- losoph. vol. xv. As a separate substance gluten is not so well known as starch, though it is of great importance in nutri- tion ; for, without it, bread could not be made light and spongy. Gluten, when separated from paste by wash- ing, is a ropy, viscid, elastic sub-