TH TH 339 proaclies more tardily, and its phe- nomena, characterised by irregular paroxysms, are attended with remis- sions of greater or less continuance. One of the first effects of the gene- rality of diseases is to increase thirst, and to make the patient require a larger proportion of drink, while the appetite is more or less completely annihilated, and a necessity for ab- stinence produced. Through the pro- gress of diseases, while thirst con- tinues, the appetite cannot return, and even if it were, in this state of things, it would only be a fallacious indication of a fictitious want, that could not, with safety, be gratified. The decline of the disease, and the approach to a state of convalescence, denoted by the gradual diminution of the thirst, are the surest indications of the return of the appetite. And as regards the therapeutic means, it is equally a fact, that drinks which extinguish or allay thirst, create ap- petite. Certain medicines also, par- ticularly antispasmodics and opium, which are known to diminish hun- ger, excite a good deal of thirst, and lastly, all generous alcoholic wines, which allay or delude the sense of hunger, have, at the same time, an opposite effect upon the sensation of thirst. THIRST, EXCESSIVE. —Con- stant craving of drink, accompanied with a sense of dryness in the mouth and throat. Simple thirst is a natural feeling; immoderate or inextinguishable thirst the result of some diseased action, or a symptom of some other complaint, or some peculiar state of the body, the removal of which alone will effect a cure. As a symptom, immoderate thirst is chiefly present in the hot lit of inflammatory fevers, in dropsy, dysentery, diarrhoea, diabetes, and other discharges. It is, also, fre- quently excited in wet-nurses, as soon as the child takes hold of the nipple; but perhaps is not only more powerfully excited, but also more intolerable under the torture inflicted to extort a confession of guilt, in which case it is said to form the worst part of the punishment. The intense agony brought on by immo- derate thirst, the consequence of bodily suffering, is well delineated in the heart-rending description of the fatal event that took place in the black-hole at Calcutta; see Annual Register, 1758. The most grateful palliatives to immoderate thirst are the vegetable acids, especially the ascescent fruits, and a decoction of sorrel leaves, slightly inspissated with gum arabic, and sweetened to the taste. Liquo- rice root, which among the Greeks held so high a reputation as a slaker of thirst, as to be designated the thirst extinguisher,” has little or no effect. And, as suggested by Dr. Cullen, it is most probably true, that it only acts in this manner when the root is well chewed, by which means the salivary glands become stimu- lated, and yield a more copious secre- tion, which has the effect ofmoistening the fauces, and consequently, of allaying the thirst. THIRST, MORBID. —The de- sire for drinking excessive, or im- paired. As regards the immediate cause of thirst, many vague hypo- theses have been suggested; the least plausible of which are here passed over in silence. By some, thirst is imputed to the dryness of the nerv- ous papillae of the pharynx, arising from a diminution of the salivary and mucous secretions, Yet in a variety of cases, thirst exists quite independ- ently of a want of moisture in the pharynx; while such beverages as are calculated to prevent the dry state of that organ, do not always succeed in quenching thirst; and, in many instances, the best means of assuag- ing it, whatever may be its violence, are certain general therapeutic plans, which cannot possibly operate by moistening the pharynx, or its nerves. In thirst, there is, perhaps, always