305 SP SP our orthography, Sherris or Sherry. (See Sack, and Sherri/). The wines most remarkable in Cadiz are Sherry and Pacaretta, both from Xeres and its vicinity. In the district of Ma- laga there are 14,000 vine-presses, chiefly employed in making the rich wines, which, if white, from the nature of the country, are called Mountain; if red, from the colour, vino tinto, known to us by the name of Tent. The wine of La Mancha appeared to Mr. Townsend to be the best in Spain; it had, he says, the flavour of the richest Burgundy, and the strength and body of the most generous Port.—See his Jour- ney, vol. ii. p. 263; vol. iii. p. 29. SPERMACETI. — An unctuous fatty substance, found in the head of some species of whales (acipenser macro cephalus), and is generally mixed with oil, from which it is puri- fied by alkaline ley. In a pure state it has no smell, and very little taste; it turns rancid by keeping. Mixed with the yolk of an egg or gum arabic, it forms an useful emulsion in coughs, colds, and stranguary from the use of cantharides. It is also useful in dysentery and ulcerations of the intestines, and particularly catarrh, slight inflammation of the lungs, dry cough, want of expectora- tion, and shortness of breath:—e. g. Take spermaceti . 2 scruples. Yolk of egg . quant, suff. Syr. of Tolu. C. Spirit of vitrio- lated ether . 10 drops. Distilled water 1^ ounce. Make a draught, to be taken every four hours; in Asthma, Dry Coughs, 8/c. Spermaceti ointment is softening and emollient to abraded surfacos, and is the proper drawing to a blister of Spanish flies. It is also a compo- nent part of most pastes and cosme- tics, from its softening the skin and rendering it smooth. SPERMACETI OIL. —The oil of a particular species of whale (see Spermaceti), found in a large trunk four or five feet deep, and ten or twelve long, filling almost the whole cavity of the head, and seeming to supply the office of cerebrum and cerebellum. The oil drawn from the other parts of the same fish is nearly three times the value of the common black whale oil. It is used for chamber lamps; the common whale or train oil, as well as that of some other fish, is used for street lamps and other purposes. SPICES.—Spices, of themselves, are not nourishing, but are used merely to improve the taste and fla- vour of substances, to prevent flatu- lency, and promote digestion. Some spices are extremely volatile, and occasioning too strong a stimulus do more harm than good. As they are apt to heat the blood, to increase perspiration, occasionally to affect the head, and to stimulate the nerves, spices in general should be used only by persons of a strong constitution, or by those of a lax fibre and cold phlegmatic habit: but individuals naturally lean and dry, as well as the choleric and phlegmatic, ought to be sparing and cautious in the use of heating drugs. The most conducive to health would be the indigenous spices, though some of the foreign kind have now become indispensable in our present mode of living.—See Condiments. Also, Cardamons. Caraway. Cinnamon. Cloves. Cubebs. Ginger. Nutmegs, &c. SPIKENARD.—An odoriferous plant, abounding in the island of Java and other parts of the East Indies. Its ointment was in high estimation among the ancients. The Evangelist Mark (chap. xiv. ver. 3) relates, that while our Saviour sat at table in the house of Simon, the leper, in Bethany, a village near 2 n 3 Pepper. Pimento. Salt, Sugar. V anilla. Vinegar, &c.