20 AR AP of astringency, with or without firm- ness of pulp, or richness of juice. The best sorts, according to Knight, are often limp, di-y, and fibrous ; and the Siberian Harvey, which he re- commends as one of the very best cider apples, is unfit either for culi- nary purposes or the table. Knight found that the specific gravity of the juice of any apple recently ex- pressed, indicates, with very consider- able accuracy, the strength of the future cider. The apple, in fine, from the various uses to which it may be applied, is a fruit of more use and benefit to the public in general, than all the other fruits, the produce of this island, united. The most common apples of her- baceous plants are the Cucumber, Common prickly. • .. .. Small creeping. .. .. Green Turkey. Long prickly. .. .. White prickly. Gourd, Bottle. .. Warted. Melon, Egyptian. .. Hairy skinned. .. Green rinded. .. Late small striated. .. Musk. .. Smooth green-fleshed. .. Spanish. .. Skinned netted. .. Toy-shaped. .. Water. .. Yellow white. Common Pompion. Long Pompion. W arted Cantaloupe. Those of trees, are the Crab apple. Goa apple. Oval fruited, Sapata. Pear tree. Pomegranate tree. Quince tree. Apples may be divided into the spicy, the acidulated, and the watery species. The first consists of the various kinds of rennet; they have the most delicate flavour, and are certainly the best; they do not con- tain a superfluity of water, and, from their vinous nature, are not apt to excite flatulency. Other kinds of apples, such as pippins, are too hard, consequently heavy to the stomach, though somewhat more nourishing than the former; stewed apples are easily digested and wholesome. The kernels or seeds of apples are bitter and aromatic; nature seems to have intended these productions for correcting the watery and fer- mentable fluids of this and all other fruits, apricots excepted. Hence, the kernels of apples and pears, as we]l as those of plums and cherries ought to be eaten with the fruit, and not be thrown away as useless.— The butter in the paste of apple-pies may be considered as an useful addi- tion, on account of its tendency to prevent fermentation, though the pastry itself always disagrees with ' weak and irritable stomachs. Apples, are, in their general ef- fects, similar to other fruit, and be- sides their aromatic virtues, are pos- sessed of laxative properties. They are serviceable in diseases of the breast, to remove spasmodic contrac- tions, to neutralize acrimony, and to attenuate viscid phlegm. With this intention, apples are most beneficial when eaten either roasted or boiled. The common people in Germany are so sensible of their excellent proper- ties in inflammatory diseases, that they boil even the wild apples and drink the water. This preparation deserves to be imitated, especially when apples become scarce in the spring. ARACK. — An Indian spirituous liquor, as the word imports, variously prepared, and frequently from rice; sometimes from sugar, fermented with the juice of cocoa nuts; fre- quently from toddy, the juice which flows from the cocoa-nut tree by in- cision; and from other substances. Its properties are similar to those