MI MI 207 be found in the warm wine latitudes. It is said that Attila, king of Hun- gary, notorious for the horrible ra- vages that he committed both in Gaul and Italy, drank so freely of hydromel (a kind of mead, or me- theglin, as the word imports) on his wedding-day, that he was found suf- focated at night; an event which occurred in the year 453; and with him expired the empire of the Huns. MILK.—As occupying a middle rank between animal and vegetable food, we shall here notice milk and its various products, and treat of each under its respective head. Milk is the proper and natural food of the young of all animals of the mammalia class; and cow’s milk constitutes a principal part of the daily diet of a great proportion of the human race, both in the infant and in the adult state. In conse- quence of the great abundance of oily and cheesy matter contained in milk, the milk of cows is by no means so well adapted to infants as human milk; but as the mode of living in civilized society often depraves the quality of women’s milk, or prevents its due secretion, cow’s milk, in too many instances, becomes a necessary substitute. On such occasions, as it is too heavy to be given alone, it should be diluted with water: and as it is disposed to become more ascescent than human milk, and from that cause to produce griping and other disorders in the bowels of young children, it will be often useful to mix with it decoctions of animal substances, such as chicken or veal broth, or decoction of hartshorn shavings; of which last two ounces should be boiled in a quart of water, over a slow fire, till the whole be reduced to a pint; when, after it has become cold, it will be of the con- sistence of a light jelly. This, mixed with about twice its quantity of cow’s milk, with the addition of a little sugar, forms for young subjects a proper aliment, approaching nearly to the nature of human milk. Milk is of very different consist- ence and properties, not only accord- ing to the various kinds and species of animals, but also in the same spe- cies, in consequence of the difference of feeding, constitution of body, age, time of milking, and other circum- stances. Among the articles of nou- rishment, milk takes the lead. It affords the best nutriment to persons whose lacteals and blood-vessels are too weak for deriving nourishment from other provisions; because it is already converted into an alimentary fluid in the intestines of an animal. Nature having appointed this bland fluid for the food of children, who, on account of their growth require much nourishment, it may hence be concluded that it is easily digested by healthy stomachs. Milk-porridge, as well as those dishes in the compo- sition of which milk and flour are used, have a mauifest tendency to obstruct the lacteals or milk-vessels of the intestines and the mysentery, a circumstance which renders them completely unwholesome, particu- larly to children. Though an animal substance, milk does not readily become putrid ; and being possessed of the power of vegetable aliment, it sooner turns sour than putrid. It affords a sub- stantial alimentary fluid; and hence it is of service to persons weakened by dissipation or disease. As the milk of animals contains more cream than that of the human breast, it ought to be diluted with water when given to infants. It combines both saccharine and oily particles, and is a very serviceable article of diet, in a putrescent state of the blood, in inveterate ulcers, and in the scurvy. It is well calculated to assuage rigi- dity, cramps, and pains, being a dilu- ent and attenuating remedy, espe- cially in the state of whey; it pro- motes perspiration and evacuation in general, and is highly beneficial in spitting of blood, hysterics, hy- pochondriasis, dysentery, inveterate