374 VE VE bunches, and served up as aspa- ragus. Turnip-tops are very whole- some, they have a most pleasant bitter taste, and are an excellent and acceptable substitute for greens in a frosty spring,—and are by many pre- ferred, with roast veal. The tops of young green nettles may be used as above, and they are considered to be particularly salutary in the spring, during which season they are eagerly embraced by many, both for medi- cinal and dietetical purposes. In consequence of a great propor- tion of vegetables being used in a recent state, the sooner they are gathered the better. Vegetables in general, should be kept apart, for if laid in contact, in a very short time they give off their peculiar flavours to each other. Leeks or celery will quickly spoil a whole basket of cau- liflowers, or the finer vegetables. Another rule is, that they should not be kept in water till they are about to be used, as the flower thereby is greatly injured; but if, by having been cut or gathered some- time, they have become flaccid, it is then absolutely necessary to restore their crispness before cooking them, otherwise they will be tough and unpleasant. This is to be done when the size of the vegetable admits of it, as cauliflower, salad, celery, &c. by cutting off a piece of the stock, and setting the fresh surface, thus exposed, in water, which will be ab- sorbed. In other cases the whole vegetable must be immei'sed in the water. As most vegetables are more or less succulent, their full proportion of fluids is necessary for their re- taining that state of crispness or plumpness, which they have when growing in the natural state. When they are cut or gathered, the exha- lation fx-om their surface, while from the open vessels of the cut surface there is frequently considerable exu- dation or evaporation, by which means their natural moisture is di- minished—the tender leaves become flaccid, and the thicker masses or roots lose their plumpness. These cii-cumstances are not only less plea- sant to the eye, but are a real injury to the nutritious parts of the vege- tables : for in this flaccid and shri- velled state, their fibres are less easily divided in chewing, and the water which exists in their substan- ces, in the form of their respective natural juices, is directly nutritious. The first care, therefore, in the pre- servation of succulent vegetables, is to prevent them from losing their natural moisture. As regards the tender succulent vegetables, owing to a constant ex- halation taking place from the sur- face, it is not altogether possible to prevent them from losing their nu- tritious moisture while its supply is cut off. The principle then of pre- serving them is to retard and dixninish the exhalations: and this is most effectually done by pi'otecting them from the rays of the sun, from air and heat. Even growing vegetables become flaccid in a hot sun, in con- sequence of the exhalation at that time being greater than the supply: and exposure to the sun is absolutely ruinous to all the more delicate ve- getables. The operation of heated air being slower oxx the one than orx the other, but similar in its effects. With the view, therefore, of pre- serving svxcculent vegetables, they should be kept in a cool, shady and damp place. They should also be kept in a heap, and not spread out, which greatly influences their shri- velling. But when accumulated in too large heaps, for any length of time, they are injured in another way, by their heatiixg as it is tenxxed, which is the commencement in them of a chemical change, or fermenta- tion, which altogether alters their nature. In many cases the chief object is to preveixt evaporation. Vegetables iixtended to be stored up, such as potatoes, turnips, cari'ots, and similar x-oots, should never be