FR 140 FR &s of its fixed air, whence it becomes more nourishing but less cooling than in the fresh state. FRUIT, To Gather, &c.—The time for gathering fruits depends much on the exposure; and the manner of gathering influences their keeping. Having prepared the fruit- room, a fine day is to be chosen, and if possible, after two or three pre- ceding days of wet weather, and about two o’clock in the afternoon. The fruit is to be gathered and depo- sited in moderately sized baskets, taking care that none of it be bruised or blemished, for the injured places soon rot, and spoil the sound parts in contact with it. As summer fruits ripen more quickly after they are plucked, only enough for the consumption of a few days should be gathered at once; by which means they may be enjoyed for a greater length of time. The apples and pears of autumn should be gathered eight days before they are ripe; in fine, there are some kinds of fruit that are never fit for eating on the tree. If they have been necessarily gathered in wet weather, or early in the morning, they should be exposed a day to the sun to dry; and on no account should they be wiped, for it rubs off the bloom, as it is called, which, when allowed to dry in some fruits, constitutes a natural varnish, closing up the pores and preventing the evaporation of the juices. They should not be laid in heaps, which causes them to transpire as well as to undergo a slight degree of fer- mentation ; for fruit thus treated, if it does not spoil, gets dry and mealy; and hence in this country the ordi- nary apples imported from the Con- tinent are inferior generally to our own. The principal requisites for a fruit room are great dryness, equality of temperature, and the power of ex- cluding light. Some have a singular way of preserving fine pears, by passing a thread through the stalk, the end of which they seal up with a drop of sealing-wax, enclose each separately in a cone of paper, and hang them up by the thread, brought through the apex. Experience has also proved that grapes keep better when hanging than when laid upon a table. To prevent exhalation, the cut end should be closed with wax. Some hang them by the stalk, others by the point of the bunch, as by this means the grapes are less pressed against each other; but it is neces- sary in both cases to visit them from time to time, and to cut off with a pair of scissors every berry that is moulded or spoiled. The following are the principal Stone Fruit of Europe: Apricot. Bullace tree. Common jujube. Male cornel, or cornelian cherry. Manured Olive. Nectarine. Peach. Plum cherry. Wild olive. Wild red cherry. Exotics. Anchovy pear. Avigate pear. Cocoa plum. Common date Clustered Sebastin, or Assyrian plum. Malabar plum. Mango tree. Oil palm. Rough-leaved Sebastin. Sea-side grape. Umbrella palm. Yellow Jamaica plum. Indian jujube. FRUIT ROOM.—(For the Pre- servation of Fruit).—The following directions for the economy of a fruit room, (which maybe connected with the seed room) are from Loudon's Cyclopaedia of Gardening.—“ This (the fruit room) ought to be well ventilated, for which purpose it ought to have a small fire-place. The