ON 225 ON deep brown-coloured liquid, called balsam of sulphur. The solution is best made by boiling flour of sulphur in spirit of turpentine. Phosphorus may likewise be dissolved by the same menstruum. OLIVES.—The fruit of the olive tree. In their natural state olives are bitter, acrid, and exceedingly dis- agreeable ; though their taste is much improved when pickled, as we re- ceive them from abroad, particularly the smaller kind, or Lucca olives. Those of Provence are esteemed ex- cellent. On account of the abund- ance of oil they contain, they are not adapted to delicate stomachs, and are pernicious, especially when eaten for dessert, after a heavy dinner. Though pickled olives are grateful to the stomach, and are supposed to promote appetite and digestion ; the ripe ones are more eaten among the Greeks, forming a considerable part of their food, especially in Lent. There are three kinds of olives fre- quently sold, different in size and quality; namely, those of Verona, in the northern parts of Italy, those of Spain, and those of the south of France. OLIVE OIL.—Olives yield an oil which is the most popular and most universal of all others; being that chiefly used in medicine, in foods, salads, and in various manu- factures. It is drawn or squeezed from the fruit by presses, or mills, for the purpose. The consumption of this oil is incredible, and it is re- puted one of the most useful things in the world. In the bite of the poisonous serpents of this country, taken internally shortly after the wound, and externally applied, it has been extolled as a specific. The sweetest and the most esteemed comes from the southern parts of France, but vast quantities are im- ported from Florence and Lucca. The medicinal properties of olive oil are demulcent, emollient, emetic, and anthelmintic. It is given in jaundice from gall-stones obstructing the flow of bile, in colic, catarrhal affections, and in cases where me- tallic poisons, and other acrid sub- stances have been taken into the stomach, in the absence of more active substances. It is also used in clysters. To excite vomiting it is given from four to six ounces. For other purposes, the dose is from half an ounce to an ounce and a half mixed with water, by means of some mucilaginous fluid, as gum arabic or the yolk of an egg, or a few drops of liquor of ammonia, which will cause the oil to blend with the water, and render it one uniform mass. Olive oil, with butter, constitutes what is called the oleaginous condi- ments. When used as a seasoning to raw vegetables, it checks their fer- mentation in the stomach, and there- by prevents them from becoming too flatulent. Used in this manner in small quantities, it proves a help to digestion ; but when taken in consi- derable quantities, it has an opposite effect, and lays the foundation for bilious complaints.—See Salads. Olive oil is frequently adulterated with oil of poppy seeds, which may be easily detected by exposing a sample to the freezing temperature, when the olive oil will congeal, while that of the poppies will remain fluid. —New Lond. Med. Pocket Book, p. 222. ONIONS.—The best onions are brought out of Spain and Portugal. They are eaten in a raw state as well as boiled, and are used in salads. Also shalots, leeks, rocam- bole, and chives. They are stimu- lating, and assist digestion, relieve the bowels, expel flatulency, dissolve slime, or mucus, and are therefore beneficial in diseases which proceed from too much viscidity; besides, they increase the appetite, and ought to be used principally in the raw state, as spices or medicines. They are powerfully expectorant, but should be avoided, or very sparingly