GL 156 GL well as to the corporeal faculties of man. Nature’s real wants are few; and these are satisfied with few things. If man would but regu- late his mode of living by nature, and obey her dictates and calls, as the rule and standard of eating and drinking, one-third of the diseases with which mankind from the cradle is visited, would be unknown or hardly felt. The stomach was never intended to be the receptacle of all the discordant variety which a luxu- rious and depraved appetite can crave, or, in other words, to be a putrid sepulchre for all impurity and horror: the principles of so many heterogeneous things as have been swallowed, fermenting and filling the exquisite structure of the human frame, with a troop of diseases and evils. What an unnatural rebellion is this against the wise and good con- stitution of nature! What a dreadful state of mind must that be—a miser- able state, in which thousands of wretched and contemptible creatures now are, to be ransacking nature for delicacies, plundering earth, sea, and skies, to furnish them with the miser- able means of gratifying appetite; studying from day to day, what they shall eat, how they shall contrive to diversify their meals, with the raven- ousness of a beast, devouring every thing their imagination can form, or their wealth purchase—whose god is their belly, and whose glory is their shame; knowing no pleasure and desirous of none, but what arises from sensual indulgencies, and the lowest voluptuousness and epicurism.”— Burton’s Anat. of Melancholy. It has been often remarked, that a hospitable and splendid table is highly commendable among the opu- lent ; it indicates a greatness of mind, a becoming liberality of nature, and serves the cause of the poor and needy; but when feasting degene- rates into excessive luxury, gluttony, and insupportable expense, the au- thors never fail to bring down upon them the charges of prodigality and folly, and, their inseparable com- panion—disease. To this kind of excess some of the ancient Romans were notoriously addicted, as appears from the following facts. When the servants of Lucullus, a famous Roman commander, were apprised of the apartment in which he de- signed to sup, they regulated the order, quantity, quality, and expense of the banquet accordingly. The charges of an accidental entertain- ment, made by him for Cicero and Pompey, because ordered in the Apollo, amounted to the enormous sum of 50,000 drachms—hence, to dine or sup in the Apollo, has become a sort of proverbial phrase to denote a superb entertainment, or an im- moderately expensive meal. Very different was the conduct of Socrates. Though the table of this eminent man was oidy supplied with simple fare, he did not scruple to invite those of superior rank to partake of his meals. When his wife, upon some such occasion, expressed her dis- satisfaction at being no better pro- vided, he desired her to give herself no concern ; for if his guests were wise men, they would be content with whatever they found at his table—if otherwise, they would be unworthy of his notice. Whilst others, said he, live to eat, tvise men eat to live. He found by experience, that temperance is the parent of health. It was owing to his perfect regularity in this respect, that he escaped infection in the midst of the plague, which proved so fatal to his fellow citizens. It is recorded also of Hannibal, the Cartliagenian gene- ral, that he took sustenance merely to content nature, not to delight his appetite. The supplies of the table of Zeno, the founder of the sect of the Stoics, consisted only of figs, bread, and honey, notwithstanding which he was frequently honoured with the company of great men. His dress also was plain, and all his expenses frugal.