382 WA WA but as they take their origin at some depth from the surface, and below the influence of the external atmo- sphere, their temperature is in gene- ral tolerably uniform, during every vicissitude of season, and always several degrees higher than the freezing point. Others again arise constantly hot, or with a temperature always exceeding the summer heat, and the warmth possessed by the water is entirely independent of that of the atmosphere, and varies little, winter or summer. One of the principal inconveniences in almost every spring water is its hardness, owing to the presence of earthy salts, which, in by far the greater number of cases, are only the insipid substances, chalk, and selenite, which do not impair the taste of the water, whilst the air which it contains, and its grateful coolness, render it a most agreeable, and, generally, a perfectly innocent drink; though sometimes, in weak stomachs, it is apt to occasion an uneasy sense of weight in that organ, followed by a degree of dyspepsy. The quantity of earthy salts varies considerably; but, in general, it appears that the proportion of five grains of these in the pint will con- stitute a hard water, unfit for wash- ing with soap, and for many other purposes of household use or manu- factures. The water of deep wells is always, cceteris paribus, much harder than that of springs which overflow their channel; for much agitation and exposure to air produce a gradual deposition of the calcareous earth, and hence spring water often encrusts, to a considerable thickness, the inside of any kind of tube through which it flows, as it arises from the earth. The specific gravity of these waters is also, for the most part, greater than that of any other kind of water, that of the sea excepted. Springs that overflow their channel, and form to themselves a limited well, pass insensibly into the state of stream or river water, and thereby become altered in some of their che- mical qualities. 5. Water, River.—This, in gene- ral, is much softer and more free from earthy salts than the last, but contains less air of any kind, for by the agitation of a long current, and in most cases by a great increase of temperature, it loses common air and carbonic acid, and with this last most of the lime which is held in solution. The specific gravity thereby becomes less, the taste not so harsh, but less fresh and agreeable, and out of a hard spring is often made a stream of sufficient purity for most of the purposes where a soft water is required. Some streams, however, that arise from a clean silicious rock, and flow in a sandy or stony bed, are from the outset remarkably pure. Such are the mountain lakes and rivulets in the rocky districts of Wales, the source of the beautiful waters of the Dee; and numberless other rivers that flow through the hollows of every valley. Switzerland has long been cele- brated for the purity and excellence of its waters, which pour in copious streams from the mountains, and give rise to some of the first rivers in Europe. Some of them never freeze in the severest winter, the cause of which is probably, as Haller conjectures, that they spring at once out of a subterraneous reservoir so deep as to be out of the reach of the frost, and during their short course, when exposed to day, they have not time to be cooled down from fifty degrees, their original temperature, to below the freezing point. Some river waters, however, that do not take their rise from a rocky soil, and are indeed at first considerably charged with foreign matter, during a long course, even over a rich cultivated plain, become remarkably pure as to saline con- tents, but often fouled with mud, and vegetable or animal exuviae, which are