83 CO CO nience was experienced. (See Dr. Paris's Med. Jurisp.). There are cases, however, which seem to con- ti'adict the usual results, but its pe- culiarities are probably to be ascribed to some previous oxidation of the metal. A child, three years old, swallowed two copper farthings by accident, at an interval of a year and a half after each. After swallowing the first he ate nothing for ten days, complained of great pain in his sto- mach, and drivelled as if he had been salivated. After the second, he began by degrees to lose his flesh, and had the appearance of consumption. He was, however, per- fectly cured by the Bath waters. {Philosoph. Trans, vol. 20, p. 424). A case is also mentioned by Dr. Jackson, of Boston, in America, where the swallowing of a piece of copper coin, called a half-cent, pro- duced nausea and vomiting, with several other symptoms character- istic of the poison. (New England Journ. vol. 3, p. 156). It is not so certain that copper in a state of mi- nute division, as filings for example, is equally innocuous with the pure metal. Portal relates a case where they were given to an individual Labouring under abdominal dropsy, and while the disease seemed to yield, colic, vomiting, and other symptoms supervened. (Orfila,\ol. 1, pp. 166-7-8). Experiments on ani- mals, however, with large doses of copper filings, mixed with grease and oil, have produced no injury, and in dissection, their metallic bril- liancy was found untarnished. Verdigrease (a solution of copper by mineral acids) is a most violent poison ; and it is well known that a quantity of this solution will produce colics, vomitings, intolerable thirst, universal convulsions, and other dan- gerous symptoms. The preparations of copper are seldom used as the instruments of crime, though fre- quently poisonous through accident, owing to its being extensively used for domestic purposes in the shape of cooking utensils. All copper uten- sils, consequently, should be pro- perly sheathed, that is, as it is termed, tinned, to prevent chemical action from taking place upon this metal, and thereby disengaging its poisonous properties. The air itself of the kitchen, abounding with ole- aginous and saline particles, dis- poses, before they are used, copper utensils to solution. Copper, when handled, yields an offensive smell, and if touched with the tongue, has a sharp and pungent taste, and ex- cites nausea. There is, indeed, reason at all times to dread the effects of copper on the human system, from the fa- cility with which it oxidates. Ex- posed to a moist atmosphere, copper becomes tarnished, and passes into a state of oxide, which soon after unites with the carbonic acid of the atmosphere, and forms a greenish carbonate of copper. Milk, however, although boiled for two hours in a clean kettle, did not contain any trace of copper; and the same result was obtained with tea, coffee, beer, and rain water. But if the water contained muriate of soda (common salt), it dissolved a notable portion of copper. These experiments were made by Mr. Eller, a chemist, at Berlin, who also noticed a remarkable circumstance in connexion with the last phenomenon. If instead of a simple solution of muriate of soda, it was previously mixed with beef, bacon, and fish, the fluid residting did not contain a trace of copper. (Orfila, vol. 1, p. 202). Fat bodies, assisted by the oxidizing principle of the atmosphere, act with celerity on it; and Proust explains the quick corrosion and destruction of the cop- per sheathings of vessels, from the combined action of grease and mu- riate of soda. Don Raphael (ob- serves Proust) ascertained this cause, and when be placed sheets of thick coarse paper between the plaster of