162 HE HE which will recover lost health, and preserve it when once established; and, in the words of Dr. Mayn- waring,—“ It is health that makes your bed easy, and your sleep re- freshing ; that renews your strength with the rising sun; that fills up the hollows and uneven places of your carcass, and makes you plump and comely, and adorns your face with her choicest colours; that makes your exercise a sport; that increases the natural endowments of your mind, and makes the soul delight in her mansion.”—Vide, Tutela Sani- tatis ; or, Hygiastic Precautions and Rules, anno 1663. HEART-BURN. — Appetite im- paired, with a gnawing or burning pain in the stomach or epigastrium, and a tendency to faint. The symptoms here enumerated are sufficiently distinct to separate cardialgy, or heartburn, from indi- gestion, in which it is merged by Dr. Cullen and other authors; for in the last there is not necessarily a gnawing or burning pain ^ and the appetite is rather fastidious, than es- sentially, or at all times, impaired; though occasionally it evidently ac- companies the latter affection, as well as a variety of other complaints, as flatulency, worms, retrocedent gout, suppressed menstruation, inflamma- tion of the stomach, and var-ious dis- eases of the heart, liver, pancreas, kidneys, and intestines; in hypoclion- driasm, and in sudden and violent emotions of the mind. It is also met with as an original affection, and ought therefore to be described as such. It is divided into the fol- lowing varieties:— 1. Heart-burn. Gnawing or burn- ing uneasiness, felt chiefly at the cardia, or upper orifice of the sto- mach; the tendency to faint being slight. 2. Sinking Heart-burn.—The pain or uneasiness extending to the pit of the stomach; with anxiety, nausea, coldness of the extremities, prostra- tion of strength, and great disposi- tion to faint. 3. Black Water. Water Brash.-— Burning pain, extending over the epigastrium, and accompanied with an eructation of watery fluid, usually insipid, sometimes acrid. The first variety is perhaps the most common; in the second the pain and uneasiness, though some- what less intense, is far more gene- ral. The third is distinguished by a morbid increase in the quantity of secerned fluids; and hence the pecu- liar symptom of an eructation, fre- quently in considerable abundance, of a thin watery liquor, chiefly in the morning, after food has been ab- stained from for many hours, and when the stomach only contains its own fluids. The following excellent description of this disease is given by the late Dr. Cullen, who, though he has se- parated it to a greater distance from dyspeptic affections, has transferred it to another order, and ei-ected it, apparently contrary to his own mode of reasoning, into a distinct genus. “ It appears most commonly in per- sons under the middle age, but seldom in any persons under the age of puberty. When it has once taken place, it is ready to recur occasionally for a long time after; but it seldom appears in persons considerably ad- vanced in life. It affects both sexes, but more frequently the female. The fits of this disease usually come on in the morning and forenoon when the stomach is empty. The first symptom is a pain at the pit of the stomach, with a sense of contrac- tion, as if the stomach were drawn towards the back: the pain is in- creased by raising the body into an erect posture, and therefore the body is bended forward. The pain is often severe; and, after continuing for some time, brings on an eructa- tion of a thin watery fluid in consi-