NU NU 217 oxygen, enables it to burn till the whole of that gas is consumed. The product of the combustion, phosphoric acid, is at first diffused through the residue in the form of a white cloud; but as this substance is rapidly ab- sorbed by water, it disappears en- tirely in the course of half an hour. The residual gas is nitrogen, con- taining a small quantity of carbonic acid and vapour of phosphorus, both of which may be removed by agita- ting it briskly with a solution of pure potash. This gas may also be pro- cured by exposing a mixture of fresh muscle and nitric acid of specific gravity 1.20 to. a moderate tem- perature.* A large quantity of gas- eous matter is evolved with effer- vescence, which is nitrogen mixed with carbonic acid; the latter must be removed by agitation with lime water but the residue still retains a peculiar odour, indicative of the pre- sence of some volatile principles, which cannot be wholly separated from it. The theory of this process is rather complex, consequently may be more conveniently studied in more elabo- rate works; as well as the other modes employed in obtaining it.See— Oxygen. NON-NATURALS—Under this term,'ancient physicians, from whom it is derived, comprehend Air, Meat, drink, sleep, and watching, motion and rest, the retentions and excre- tions, and the affections of the mind (all of which see); or in other words those principal matters which do not enter into the composition of the body, 'but which at the same time are necessary to its existence,—called by Galen, Conservatrices Naturae. See Dietetics. NOUILLES.—An Italian paste resembling macaroni; it is flat in- stead of being in pipes. NUTMEG, (Nux Myristica).— The aromatic kernel of a large nut, produced by a tree said to resemble * See Elements of Chemical Philo- sophy, by Sir Humphry Davy. the pear tree, growing in the East Indies, particularly in the Molucca Islands, and Botany Bay. Those of the latter place are by no means so good as the former, being spongy and cellular-. There are two sorts of it, male and female; the former of a large and oblong shape, the latter soft and round: the small round ones have most aroma and fragr-ancy; the others are spongy. The nutmeg is enclosed in a hard shell. Mace is a reticular substance round this shell, and there is a third coat, like that of a walnut. It is moderately warm, grateful to the taste, and unc- tuous to the feel. It is an excel- lent carminative and cordial; when toasted, so as to lose some of its es- sential oil, it is useful for children who have weak bowels, becoming gently astringent and cordial. In diarrhoeas and languor of the bowels, it is very useful, combined with a few grains of rhubarb or prepared chalk. The spirit of nutmeg is an useful aromatic. Take, Rhubarb ... i drachm Magnesia ... 1 drachm Peppermint water 2i ounces Spirit of nutmeg . 3 drachms. Mix. Two tea-spoonfuls may be given occasionally to a child from six to twelve months old, and the dose proportionally increased to the age of the subject, either to purge or strengthen the stomach, &c. If nutmegs be digested with spirits, the colour, aroma, and stimulating properties are taken up, and a white unctuous substance left behind. This the druggists formerly used to im- pregnate with a few drops of some essential oil, and sell it as the oil itself. Nutmegs yield, by distilla- tion, a very fine essential oil, which is very grateful, and possesses the flavour of the spice in perfection; two drops being nearly equal to a pound of the powder.—See Mace. NUTRITION.—The function of nutrition may be considered as the completion of assimilation. The