CO 73 CO servant, called Pasqua, brought into England in 1652, by Mr. Edwards, a Turkey merchant, to make his coffee, first set up the trade of a coffee man, and introduced drink- ing it in this island. The bitter, astringent powers of the coffee-beans, in some measure correct the bad properties of warm water; but if they be too much roasted, their empyreumatic oil is expelled, and they acquire an insi- pid taste. If, on the other hand, they be not sufficiently roasted, this burnt oil is not evolved to the sur- face of the bean, and the coffee ac- quires a bitter and unpleasant flavour. When coffee is intended as a pro- moter of digestion, it should be care- fully made by infusion, that is, by putting it into boiling water, and suffering it to stand and gently sim- mer ; decoction dissipates its fine aro- matic properties. Coffee drunk after dinner pro- motes digestion; and agues, diar- rhoeas, and giddiness have been fre- quently removed by it. Its subtle oil stimulates the solids, rarefies the blood, and consequently is of pecu- liar sendee to females of a sedentary life, and to those who suffer phlegm- atic and bilious disorders. If drunk too strong it affects the nerves, and, by its penetrating properties, often occasions tremors of the hands and sleeplessness; but in some phleg- matic and indolent individuals it is apt to excite sleep. The custom of taking coffee immediately after dinner, so generally adopted by the French, must, doubtless, tend to counteract the bad effects which the peculiar form of their diet is calcu- lated to produce. If it be used merely as a diluent for relaxing the fibres, it ought to be made strong; that is, in the proportion of an ounce to a pint of water, which should be allowed to boil up, and left to sim- mer very gently, with every aper- ture in the coffee-pot closed, to keep in the steam as much as possible. As coffee possesses excellent anti- spasmodic properties, it is a favourite beverage with the asthmatic and hys- terical. The steam of boiling coffee has often been found beneficial to the eyes. If drunk in the morning, of a proper strength, for breakfast, it ought to be diluted well with milk, and indeed, some prefer to boil the milk with the coffee, which renders the latter more digestible. When taken in the afternoon, a small teacup full or two, without milk, and sweetened with sugar-candy, as- sists digestion, and is an excellent substitute for spirits, particularly to persons in a good state of health, and to such as are not habitual wine drinkers, or of a very irritable con- stitution. Its immoderate use, how- ever, like every other thing taken in excess, is prejudicial to the health, and destructive to the diseased: it weakens the latter still more by causing great undulations in the blood, trembling of the limbs, giddi- ness, and a certain intolerable timi- dity. It leads people of a sanguine temperament, and particularly fe- males, to the long train of all the fashionable nervous diseases. It fre- quently occasions, in some constitu- tions, a disagreeable eruption of the face, and many other troublesome disorders; and, says a late writer, (Willich), “ occasions bleedings at the nose, and sometimes spitting of blood, induces frequent hemorrhoides, a hectic cough, and at last, consump- tion and death.” From several experiments and ob- servations, made by Dr. Percival, to ascertain the effects of coffee on the human body, he infers that it is slightly astringent and antiseptic; that it moderates alimentary fermen- tation, and is powerfully sedative. It assists digestion, relieves the head- ache, and has been prescribed with great success in asthma, as already observed. In delicate habits, the too liberal use of it has been suspected of producing palsies. But if coffee ii