su 315 SU sown, and proved highly productive. Most of the plants found on coral islands, and in various places, are propagated by the same means of passing through the digestive canal; and it is probable that the seeds of many of them are equally assisted by the same process. And even when they are completely disor- ganized and digested, the material to which their refuse is converted, and which, combined with the ani- mal secretions that accompany it, is called dung, very powerfully contri- butes, as every one knows, to render the soil productive. So that by the wisdom of Providence, animal and ve- getable fructification are reciprocally dependent on each other, and are alternately causes and effects.—See Gastric Juice. By some of the numerous experi- ments of Gosse, of Geneva, per- formed upon himself, he ascertained that the animal and vegetable fibre, concrete albumen, white and tendin- ous parts, paste containing fat or butter, substances which have either not undergone fermentation, or which do not readily undergo that process, remain longer in the sto- mach, offer more resistance to the gastric juice, than the gelatinous parts of animals or vegetables, fer- mented bread, &c.; that the latter required but an hour for their com- plete solution, while the former were scarcely dissolved at the end of several hours. The following are the result of some of Gosse’s expe- riments :—• I. Substances that were not digested in the usual time in the stomach. a. Of the Animal kind, were ten- dinous parts, bones, oily or fatty parts, indinated white of egg. b. Of the Vegetable hind, oily or emulsive seeds — expressed oils of different nuts and kernels, dried grapes, and the skins of fish, rinds of farinaceous substances, pods of beans and pease, skins of stone fruits, husks of fruit, with grains or seeds, capsules of fruits with grains and ligneous stones of fruits. II. Substances partly digested.— Pork dressed various ways, black puddings, fritters of eggs, fried eggs and bacon. Vegetables. —Salads of different kinds, rendered more so when dress- ed—white of cabbage less soluble than red—beet, cardoms, onions and leeks—roots of scurvy grass, red and yellow carrots—succory, are more indigestible in the fonn of salad than in any other way. The pulp of fruit with seeds when not fluid— warm bread and sweet pastry, from their producing acidity—fresh and dried figs. By frying all these sub- stances in butter or oil, they became still less soluble. If, however, they are not dissolved in the stomach, they become so in the course of their passage through the intestines. —See Solution. III. Substances easy of Digestion, and which are reduced to Pulp in an hour, or an hour and a half.—Veal, lamb, and in general the flesh of young animals, are sooner dissolved than that of old. Fresh eggs, cows- milk; perch boiled with a little salt and parsley; when fried or seasoned with oil, wine, and white sauce, it is not so digestible. Vegetable Substances.—Herbs, as spinach mixed with sorrel, are less soluble; celery, tops of asparagus, hops, bottoms of artichokes, boiled pulp of fruits seasoned with sugar, pulp or meal of farinaceous seeds, different sorts of wheaten bread, without butter, the second day after baking, the crust more than the crumb; salted bread of Geneva more so than that of Paris, without salt; brown bread, in proportion as it con- tains more bran, is less digestible. Rapes, turnips, potatoes, parsneps, not too old. Gum arabic, but its acid is soon felt: the Arabians use it.as food. IV. —Substances which facilitate the menstruing power of the gastric