AM 14 AM ALMONDS, OIL OF BITTER. —This has all the characteristic ef- fects of prussic acid, but it is so powerful and dangerous as to pre- clude its use. It is principally sold to perfumers and confectioners. Vogel, in his experiments on and analysis of bitter almonds, gives the following proportions of the sub- stances, in 100 parts:— Peelings ... 8.5 Fixed oil . . 28 Albumen . . . SO Sugar . . . .6.5 Gum ... 3 Parenchyma, vegetable, 5 Essential oil & prussic acid .. The essential oil of bitter almonds appears to be a very singular sub- stance. It is best obtained by dis- tilling almond water with barytes, to separate the prussic acid. In close vessels it is very volatile; exposed to tire air it becomes solid, crystalline, inodorous, and of considerable fixity. The crystals are a compound of it with oxygen, for oxygen is absorbed during their formation, and if they are dissolved in hydro-sulphuret of ammonia, they are again decom- posed, and the original odour and oil are produced.—Jour, of Science. Bitter almonds, when pounded and taken in sufficient quantity, are highly deleterious, as has been proved by numerous experiments. ALMOND CUSTARDS.—Blanch and pound fine, with half a gill of rose-water, six ounces of sweet, and half an ounce of bitter almonds; boil a pint of milk, sweeten it with two ounces and a half of sugar, rub the almonds through a fine sieve, and, with a pint of cream, strain the milk to the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of three well beaten; stir over a fire till it be of a good thickness ; then take it off, and stir till it cools to prevent it from curdling. Baked in cups or in a dish, with a rim of puff. AMBERGRIS. — A substance found floating on the surface of the sea near the coasts of India, Africa, and Brazil, supposed to be a concre- tion formed in the stomach of the spermaceti whale. It has usually been considered as a i-esinous principle; but its chief constituent is a sub- stance very analogous to cldorestine, and to which MM. Pelletier and Caventon have given the name of ambreine. As ambergris has not been found in any whales but such as are dead or sick, its production is generally supposed to be owing to disease, though it has been affirmed by some to be the cause of the morbid affec- tion. It is found in various sizes, generally in small fragments, but sometimes so large as to weigh near 200 lbs. Its specific gravity ranges from 780 to 926. If good, it adheres like wax to the edge of the knife with which it is scraped, retains the impression of the teeth and nails, and emits a fat odoriferous liquid on being penetrated with a hot iron. It is generally brittle ; but, on rub- bing it with the nail, it becomes smooth like hard soap. Its colour is either white, black, or ash-coloured, yellow, or blackish; or it is varie- gated, namely, grey with black specks, or grey with yellow specks. Its smell is peculiar, and not easily counterfeited. According to Bouil- lon La Grange, who has given the last analysis, 3820 parts of amber- gris consist of adipocire 2016 parts, a resinous substance 1167, benzoic acid 425, and coal 212. An alcoholic solution of amber- gris, added in minute quantity to lavender water, tooth powder, hair powder, wash balls, &c., communi- cates its peculiar fragrance. Its high price in London frequently causes it to be adulterated. It has occasion- ally been employed medicinally, but its use is mostly confined to the per- fumer. Dr. Swediaur took thirty grains without any sensible effect. A sailor who took half an ounce of it