SC sc 290 being reducible into meal,they equally acquire a lentor, being mixed with water, as meal or flour prepared from other grain. Cheese, though pre- pared of sweet and mild milk, if it be rather too old, acquires a great acrimony, so as to bite the tongue. It is known that cheese is prepared, with some acid, or the proper coa- gulum called rennet is instilled into the new milk: then the grosser part is separated from the thin whey of the milk, and pressed within a thick linen cloth, till all the whey goes out. What is then left in the linen cloth consists of the butyraceous parts of the milk and the cheese pro- perly so called; and this cheese when longkept, on account of its thick buty- raceous admixture, becomes very acrid, not acid, but rather inclining to an alkaline nature. But when the milk is first deprived of its fat cream, and afterwards coagulated, then the cheese made in this manner becomes less acrid by age, but grows hard like a horn, and, held to the fire, it bends also as a horn, but scorches, burns, and stinks. Cheese, there- fore, with an acrimony acquired by age, tends to putrefaction, though prepared from ascescent milk: and, as commonly it is seasoned with plenty of salt, in order for its keep- ing, it is plain why its use must hurt those who are inclined to the scurvy, even from other causes; and it is known, from daily observations, that the scorbutic perceive all these symp- toms, by eating such cheese only for a few days.—See Cheese. 5. Melancholy, a disposing cause to Scurvy.—Many of the causes of melancholy are likewise favourable for producing the scurvy, whilst they create a stiff siziness in the humours, by dissipating the thinner parts, and fixing the next; and hence the authors who wrote of the scurvy, have placed a great affinity between it and the atrabilious cacochymy. The author of Anson’s Voyage round the World observes, that seamen afflicted with the scurvy become cowards, and are terrified with the greatest fear from the most trifling causes; and he also observes, that when any adverse fortune happened, which lessened their hopes of a pros- perous return to their country, the violence of the disease was imme- diately increased, so as to strike with death those that were in the last stage of it; and others, who, though languid, could yet do some duty, were instantly obliged to take to their beds. To the preceding may be added, indolence, confinement, want of exercise, &c. Scurvy, Treatment of.—As a means, in the first place, of counteracting remote causes of scurvy, which is the effect of salt provision, and the Avant of fresh meat and vegetables, every ship bound on a long voyage should be well stored with flour-, eggs, rice, pearl barley, oatmeal, groats, peas, sago, vermicelli, portable soup, potatoes, and other vegetables in season, sour kraut, raisins, currants, prunes, and other dried and fresh fruits. The ship should be well sup- plied with spirituous and fermented liquors, as rum, brandy, beer and porter, together with wine, cider, vinegar, and other acids, particularly the concrete juice of lemons, limes, oranges: also with these fruits in their natural state, live stock, smoke- dried provisions, portable soup, and meats otherwise preserved, &c. The voyages of Captain Cook, as well as that of the unfortunate La Peyrouse, prove beyond a doubt, that by due care and proper regimen, seamen may be preserved from the scurvy and other diseases, which formerly have been inseparable from long sea voyages; and that they can endure and support the fatigues of the longest navigations in all climates, in all latitudes, in the midst of fogs, and under a burning sun. But when, from want of any of these precau- tions, the disease manifests itself among a number of men, let it be