MA MA 199 nal appearance, and its seed, it very much resembles the beet-root, it is superior to it in every respect, and appears to form a distinct species. Its culture is so easy, its advantages so numerous, and it will answer so completely the purposes of any other forage, that it seems to him to deserve to be adopted every where, and to have the preference, even in the best years, over all other roots with which beasts are nourished. It may be planted in open fields, and in lanes ; it will succeed in all lands, and espe- cially in those that are moist and light. If in hard and clayey grounds it is prevented from making its way far into the earth, it will extend itself horizontally, and it will produce above the surface that which the nature of the soil hinders from being produced beneath it. This most valuable root is not affected by the vicissitude of the sea- sons, and has no destructive enemy; the insects and vermin, which make ravages on all other kinds of vege- tables, neither touch nor injure it. It is not attacked by blasting or mil- dew, and the greatest drought does not affect its vegetation ; it does not injure the soil that nourishes it; but prepares it to receive, before the win- ter, the corn and other seeds which may be intended to be deposited in it. In order to induce persons to en- gage in the cultivation of a root so valuable, and to cause it to succeed in all hands, the Abbe points out the time and the manner of sowing, transplanting, and cultivating it, and of gathering in the leaves; which succeed each other, without ceasing, in the greatest abundance, and which are highly useful, especially for horned cattle. He then treats of the crop of roots, of the manner of preserving them, and of the method and time of replanting them, in order to obtain seed; in what manner the roots are to be prepared for nourishing and fattening large cattle, and even for rearing young calves, that the owners are desirous of weaning soon after their being calved. But for these par- ticulars we must necessarily refer to the pamphlet itself. In the mean time, we shall extract some farther observations respecting the peculiar excellencies of this root. Oxen, cows, and sheep, readily eat the leaves, they nourish them, and they are even fattened by them. They are given to them entire, as they come from the field. Poultry will eat them, when cut small, and mixed with bran. Even horses will like these leaves very well, and may be fed with them during the winter. Nothing more is necessary for this purpose, but to cut them small, with a proper instrument. Milch cows, and which is intended to continue as such, may, without the least inconvenience, eat of these leaves, for their whole nourishment, during eight, and even to fifteen fol- lowing days. From the very first days, they will give a greater quan- tity of milk, and cream of the very best quality; but if they should be continued to be fed with this forage only, it would soon be apparent that they fattened at a surprising rate ; in a short time the milk will dimi- nish, and the substance turn entirely to fat. These leaves produce the same effect on sheep and oxen; from whence a judgment may be formed of the great facility with which they may be fattened, by this species of nourishment alone. The leaves of this root will also afford to men a wholesome and agreeable food ; they have not an earthy taste, like beets; their taste resembles that of the Cardon d’ Es- pagne, and they may be eaten in the same manner. They may be dressed in different ways; they are consi- dered as a kind of spinach, and are preferred to it by many persons; they may he eaten from the spring to tlie month of November; by their continual re-production, and great