119 PI FI the case in Scotland, although not so much observed as to be generally known; still a very marked instance is related by Dr. Walker. Other fish are probably unwholesome after the spawning, but they are seldom caught in that state. Young fish, not come to the age of spawning, are in season all the year round. III. With regard to the age of fish, as affecting their fitness for food, we hold with the old adage, “ better small fish than no fish;” but, “the larger they are the better” is not correct. For although a well grown and well nourished individual is always finer than one not in such condition, and although some fishes, naturally soft, may become firmer as they grow older, yet many fishes are certainly more delicate when of a smaller size, probably from being young. Cod is generally preferred large; but large cod is sometimes very coarse. The haddock is certainly better when it does not exceed the middling size; and the whole skate tribe are apt to get coarse and strong as they get large. Ausonius tells us that the bream is the only fish that improves by age. IV. The favour offish, independ- ently of their apparent condition, is very much influenced by the nature of their food; and, on this account, there is the greatest difference of the fish on different coasts, or in different rivers and lakes. Sea fish, in ge- neral, are best where the water is deep, and strong and salt, and where the shore is bold and rocky. .Hence the cod and ling, caught near the shores and in bays, are greatly infe- rior in quality to fish caught off head- lands, in strong currents, and deep waters. Of the river fish, those which are found in clear rapid streams, with a rocky or gravelly bottom, in a moun- tainous country, are indeed less fat, but better tasted; and hence the sal- mon of the Elbe and Rhine are more valued than that of the other Conti- nental rivers. The Thames salmon, however, is preferred in the London market to all other; and some gour- mands pretend to distinguish by the taste when it comes from a favourite reach of the river. It is, however, certain that fish caught in slow run- ning waters, with a muddy bottom, such as occur in flat countries with a rich soil, though generally larger and fatter, are very inferior in the more essential parts of flavour and firm- ness. The fish also of deep lakes, with a gravelly bottom, is much pre- ferable to that of small, shallow, and muddy ponds or tanks. The bad qualities of fish in stagnant waters, into which the filth of cities was emp- tied, did not escape the notice of Galen. Fresh-water fish, bred in muddy bottoms or foul water, are sometimes freed from their unpleasant earthy taste, by keeping them for some time in ponds of clear water with a gra- velly bottom. V. A process called crimping is sometimes adopted, for the purpose of improving fish, which has been in- vestigated by Sir Anthony Carlisle, to whom the fish eating world are indebted for the following informa- tion :—“ Whenever the rigid con- tractions of death have not taken place, this process may be practised with success. The sea fish destined for crimping are usually struck on the head when caught, which, it is said, protracts the term of this capability, and the muscles which retain this property longest are about the head. Many transverse sections of the muscles being made, and the fish immersed in cold water, the contrac- tions called crimping take place in about five minutes; but, if the fish be large, it often requires thirty minutes to complete the process.” The crimping of fresh water fish is said to require hard water ; and the London fishmongers usually employ it. Sir Anthony Carlisle found that,