DI m 101 (See Gastric Juice). By these means it is reduced to nearly a uniform pulp, and suffers a degree of fermen- tation, by which its properties are altered and a quantity of air is extri- !cated from it. The action of the stomach at length presses it out intp the beginning of the intestinal canal. (See Intestines). It is pro- pelled through this winding tube by means of the peristaltic motion, which is a successive contraction of Ethe muscular coat of the intestines upon their contents; and may be likened to the crawling motion of a worm or caterpillar. When arrived a little below the stomach, the food receives the bile, (see Bile) ; by the mixture of which, it acquires a yel- low tinge, and has its solid parts still more perfectly dissolved. At the same time it also receives the pan- creatic juice, a liqour separated by the pancreas, and resembling the sa- liva, which serves further to dilute it. From the internal surface of the intestinal canal, especially that part called the small intestine, arise in- numerable minute vessels, with open mouths. These are furnished with numerous valves, and flow together into larger and larger trunks, till at last they all terminate in the thoracic duct. They are called lacteals. (See Lymphatics). By means of these ves- sels, all the nutritious part of the food, now putting on the appearance of cream, and called the chyle, is ab- sorbed from it in its long course through the intestines. (See Chyle). The lymph and chyle are therefore carried together to be mixed with the blood, from the thoracic duct, into which the lymphatics terminate, in the left subclavian vein. The re- mainder of the food now becomes foetid, and turned into mere excre- ment, is propelled through the rest of the intestinal canal, and dis- charged per anum.—See Chyme. DIGESTION, T IEORIES OF. We are still ignorant of the chemical changes which the aliments undergo in the stomach. It is only at dif- ferent times that explanations on this subject, more or less plausible, have been attempted to be given. Ancient philosophers asserted that the food putrefied in the stomach; Hippo- crates attributes digestion to coot ion; Galen gave attractive, retentive, con- coctive, and cxpulsative faculties to the stomach; by the assistance of which he thought to explain the pro- cess of digestion. The doctrine of Galen prevailed in the schools until the middle of the seventeenth cen- tury, when it was attacked and upset by the fermenting chemists, who es- tablished a particular effervescence and fermentation in the stomach, by means of which the aliments were macerated, dissolved, precipitated, &c. This system had a very short career; but it was superseded by ideas much less consonant with rea- son. It was afterwards established that digestion was nothing more than a trituration or bruising of the food, effected by the contraction of the stomach; and it was supposed that an innumerable multitude of small worms attacked and divided it. Boerhaave conceived he had hit the truth by combining the different opi- nions on this subject that reigned before him. Haller differed from the sentiments of his master, by con- sidering digestion merely as a sim- ple maceration. He was aware that vegetable and animal matter, steeped in water, was not long before it was covered over with a soft and homo- geneous membrane; and he thought that the aliment underwent pheno- mena analogous to this, by mace- rating in the saliva and fluid se- creted by the stomach. The experiments of Reaumur and Spallanzani have thrown a different light on the process of digestion. They made experiments upon ani- mals, and demonstrated the falsity of the ancient systems. They shewed that aliments, enclosed in hollow me- tallic balls, pierced with small holes, k 3