CO 85 CO compound substance known under the latter name, is the preparation of copper, which most frequently produces deleterious effects. Orfila has produced numerous cases illus- trating its action; and hence it will be useful to state the mode in which the respective individuals were poi- soned. 1. —In one instance, a family con- sisting of nine persons were affected; the first of these by a cake made udth melted butter, and skimmed with a copper instrument, upon which the fat body had been allowed to cool; five, from some broth and meat coming out of a saucepan, skimmed by the same skimmer; and the re- mainder by a fricassee of pigeons, prepared in the same pan. 2. —The Jacobin Friars, in Paris, to the number of twenty-one, were poisoned in 1781, by eating some ray, which had been cooked in a copper vessel. The cook, after taking out part of the water, had poured vinegar on the fish to render them more firm, and in this state they had stood for some time away from the fire. 3. Some veal, placed in an earthen pot, to which there was a copper lid, and which lid lay directly in contact with the meat, affected two indivi- duals ; also eggs prepared with sorrel and butter, in a copper vessel, which was covered with verdigris, produced similar effects. Dupuytren mentions a case where a whole family was poisoned from eating lobsters, which had been cooked, and afterwards placed in a copper kettle, with vinegar poured over them. Even peas which remained for a day in a copper vessel, have produced all the characteristic effects of poisoning from copper. Symptoms of.—The symptoms con- sequent on having swallowed a suf- ficient quantity of verdigris, are thus detailed by Orfila. “ An acrid, styptic, coppery taste in the mouth, parched and dried tongue, a sense of strangulation in the throat, coppery eructations, continual spitting, nausea, copious vomitings, or vain efforts to vomit, shooting pains in the stomach, which are often very severe; horrible gripes, very frequent alvine evacua- tions, sometimes bloody and black; debility, &c. The abdomen inflated and painful; the pulse small, irre- gular, tight, and frequent; syncope, heat of skin, ardent thirst, difficulty of breathing, anxiety about the pit of the stomach, cold sweats, scanty urine, violent headache, vertigo, faintness, weakness in the limbs, cramps of the legs, and convulsions.” All these symptoms, however, do not generally occur in the same indivi- dual, hut vomiting and colic are very constant. Hiccup has been no- ticed as a constant symptom in a fatal case. Antidotes.—The investigations of M. Marcelin Duval, and the earlier experiments of Orfila, seemed to prove that sugar was the antidote for verdigris. It allayed the pain and other alarming symptoms, and pro- duced a great number of liquid stools. Subsequent researches have, how- ever, diminished the value of this substance. It is useful in calming the irritation when the poison has been expelled by vomiting, but it exerts no chemical action on it; and animals, on whom the gullet was tied, died, notwithstanding large doses of syrup were administered. When al- bumen was given under similar cir- cumstances, the animal survived se- veral days, experienced no remark- able change, and after death no lesion was found. It is hence the proper antidote, whilst sugar and its preparations may be used to aid its operation. The inflammatory symp- toms, should any remain after the supposed evacuation of the poison, are to be treated as inflammation of the stomach. Orfila relates a case, where sugar apparently saved the life of the patient. After the second draught, &c., sugar and water, and