WI 395 wr WILD CUCUMBER The wild cucumber differs from that generally used for food; it contains a viscous and very sharp juice; which being evaporated to a certain consistence is called elaterium, used medicinally in dropsical complaints, and is gene- rally of a very active nature. WILD DUCK. — There are se- veral sorts of wild ducks, differing one from another in bigness, form, colour, and cry.—See Duck, Teal, WILD PIGEONS—See Pigeons. W INE.—Wine is defined a brisk, agreeable, spirituous, and cordial liquor, extracted from vegetable bo- dies, and fermented. All sorts of vegetables, fruits, seeds, roots, &c. may be made to afford it; as grapes, pulse, pease, turnips, radishes, and even grass. The word wine, how- ever, is appropriated in a more parti- cular manner to the fermented juice of the grape. Of the various sorts made in France, Germany, Spain, Portugal, Hungary, and Italy, con- cerning the acquaintance which our ancestors had with wine, it has been conjectured that the Phoenicians might possibly have introduced a small quantity of it: but the liquor was very little known in our island before it was conquered by the Romans. All vegetables, nutritive and ani- mal matters which contain sugar ready formed, are susceptible of spirituous fermentation. For in- stance, wine may be made of all the juices of plants, the sap of trees, the infusions and decoctions of fari- naceous vegetables, the milk of fru- giverous animals; and lastly, it may be made of all ripe succulent fruits. But of all other substances suscept- ible of the spirituous fermentation, none is capable of being converted into so good wine as the juice of the French grapes, or of other countries that are nearly in the same latitude or in the same temperature. The grapes of warmer climates, and even those of the southern provinces of France, do indeed furnish wines that have a more agreeable, that is, more of a saccharine, taste; but these, though they are sufficiently strong, are not so spirituous as those of the provinces near the middle of France : at least, from the latter wines the best vinegar and brandy are made. A temperate use of wine is conducive to health. The functions of both body and mind are roused and facili- tated by it. It has a powerful effect upon the organs of digestion, the circulation and the nervous system, by promoting digestion, strengthen- ing the action of the heart and arte- ries, and raising the spirits. Such is its beneficial operation when mo- derately used. Taken in excessive quantities, it produces opposite ef- fects, destroying the powers of the stomach, inducing emaciation and debility, and occasioning inflamma- tion and obstruction in the liver, lungs, &c. Whence gout, palsy’ dropsy, consumption, diabetes, &o. In a dietetical point of view, wines are to be considered as they are either acid, sweet, soft, or austere. The acid wines, of which the hock and Rhenish are the most noted, are the least heating and the most diuretic. The sweet, such as the Frontignac, Malaga, Tent, Cape, are heating and sudorific. The soft or acidi-dulces- cent wines, such as Champagne, claret, Burgundy, Madeira, &c., are less stimulating than the sweet, and nioie cordial than the acid wines. Of the austere and astringent kind] that which is the most used in this country is red port, which, when it has not been mixed with too large a pi oportion of brandy, is a generous and stomachic wine, well suited to the generality of British constitu- tions. All wines considered as me- dicines are very valuable, and would be still more so, if the constitution qf the English were not so much habi- tuated to them. Wherever the vital powers are exhausted by great evacuations, by over excitement,