sc SE 291 where it may, either on shipboard or in garrison, the effects are to be counteracted, first by removing the putrid state of the system, by a diet of fresh animal and vegetable food, but more particularly the latter, to which may be added, the free use of ripe fruits. For ordinary beverage, the patient may drink milk, whey, butter-milk, or wort, or an infusion of milk in spruce. One of the most effectual antiscorbutics, and which may be substituted for others in cases of emergency, is lemon juice, with which most ships going long voyages are supplied. Symptoms may also arise in the course of the disease requiring a separate treatment; such as pains in the belly, which are to be allayed by opiates, &c. sponginess of the gums, and looseness of the teeth, by washing the mouth with gargles of an asriingent and anti- septic nature; * foul ulcers to be cleansed and healed by washing them with lemon juice, &c. The bowels in the course of the disease should be relaxed, if costiveness prevail, by drinking decoction of tamarinds, to which a little cream of tartar has been added. The skin may be kept moist by giving a few grains of the compound powder of ipecacuanha, or the like. In order to restore the system after an attack from scurvy, the individual should live upon fresh vegetable and animal food; take the bark with sulphuric acid diluted; live in a free open air; take exercise, * Antiseptic, i. e. possessing a power of preventing animal substances from pass- ing into the state of putrefaction, and of obviating putrefaction when already begun e. g. lake— Decoction of bark . 12 ounces, Tincture of myrrh . 3 ounces, Muriatic acid . . 30 drops, Make a gargle. Also, Take Infusion of roses . 8 ounces, Alum . ... 2 drachms. Honey enough to make it palatable. Mix for a gargle . Astringent. and otherwise lead a life of temper- ance and regularity; for in the cure as well as prevention of scurvy, much more is to be effected by re- gimen than by medicines. SEBACIC.—Of or belonging to suet, or such fat-like substances. SEBACEOUS. — Suety: applied to a gland which secretes a suety humour. SECRETION.—The function of secretion in an animal body, is that process by which a fluid is separated from the blood, though different in its properties from blood. The organs which secrete the various humours are the glands; and the proximate or immediate cause of secretion is a specific action of the arteries of these glands; for every secretion is formed from the extre- mities of arteries. The secretion of the bile is no exception to this law, for the vena porta, or great vein, which carries the blood from the abdominal viscera (the spleen, me- sentery, and stomach) into the liver, takes upon itself the functions of an artery:—thus the mucous glands secrete mucus; the salival glands, as the parotid, submaxillary, anil sublingual, the saliva or spittle so called ; the pencilli of the liver, that is, the innumerable branches into which the vena porta is divided after it enters the liver, thus named from their arrangement resembling a hair pencil, the bile ; the cryptee or con- volutions of the venal artery upon itself of the kidneys, which are beau- tifully ramified in the substance of this organ, urine ; the glands of the breast, the milk in women, &c. The secreted fluids are the proper stimuli to the receptacles and ducts, through which the secretion is to pass to its place of destination; so that the secretions move along the secretory ducts -by means of the con- tractibility of the coats of the ducts, and the assistance of neighbouring moving powers, lienee the neces- sity of a healthy secretion to the regular performance of every func-