SA SA 278 be broken and mixed with the mus- tard, oil, and vinegar, and some cut into quarters, and eaten with the herbs. Salad Dishes. — Salad dishes should be of porcelain, or of delf ware, neither too deep nor too shal- low ; pewter, nor even silver agree- ing so well with vinegar and oil, which leave their several tinctures behind. There ought to be one dish, in which the vehicles should be mixed, and another to receive the crude herbs upon which they are to be poured; then, with a fork and a spoon, stir them up together, till all the furni- ture be equally invested. Some who are good economists pour on the oil alone at first, as more apt to diffuse itself than when mixed with acids, which at last are added. In this manner it is incredible how small a quantity of oil will suffice to spread over a very plentiful dish of salad herbs. The salad-gatherer should be provided with a light, neat wicker basket, divided into partitions. Salads to Dress. ■—The ingre- dients of which you intend your salad to be composed being gathered, and proportioned as above, let the endive have all its outside leaves stripped off, slicing in the white. In like manner the celery is also to have the hollow green stem or stalk trimmed and divided, slicing in the blanched part and cutting the root into four equal parts. Lettuce, cresses, ra- dishes, &c. must as directed be ex- quisitely picked, cleansed, washed, and put into the strainer, swung, and gently shaken, either separately or together, as may be agreeable to the taste, some preferring the blanch- ed bitter herbs by themselves, others mingle endive, succory, and rampion, without distinction, and generally eat celery by itself, also a sweet fennel, Guinea pepper and horse-radish may be left out from April to Sep- tember, and during all the hot months, they are therefore only mentioned in the dressing, which should be in the manner stated. Now for the herbs: These being neatly parcelled and spread out upon a clean napkin, are to be mixed together in one of the earthen glazed dishes : then for the Oxoleon. Take of clear and perfectly good olive oil, three parts of the best white wine vinegar (lemon or juice of orange if preferred) one part, in which let some scrapings or slices of horse- radish be steeped, with a little salt, (some in separate vinegar gently bruise a pod of guinea pepper, strain- ing both the vinegar and it apart to make use of either, or one at a time, or of both as they please). Then add as much Tewkesbury, or other dry mustard grated, as will lie upon a half crown piece, beat and mix all these well together, but do not add the oil and vinegar, till you are on the point of eating the salad, and then with the yolk of two new laid eggs, boiled and prepared as before directed, squash and bruise them all into a mash with a spoon ; and lastly, pour it all upon the herbs, stirring and mixing them till they are well and thoroughly imbibed, not for- getting to sprinkle the aromatic herbs as directed, should you think proper, and garnish the dish with thin slices of horse-radish, red beet, barberries, &c. The liquids may be made more or less acid according to taste. These rules followed, you have a salad for six or eight people accommodated to art. SALIVA.—The saliva or spittle commonly so called, issues from three distinct sets of glands, distri- buted over different parts of the mouth, as the parotid, the submax- illary, and the sublingual; and (ac- cording to Berzelius) a portion of it equal to 1000, consists of water 992-9; a peculiar animal matter 2-9; mucus 1-4; alkaline muriates 1-7; lactate of soda and animal matter 0-9 ; pure soda 0-2. (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii, p. 242). What Berzelius sets down as mucus, is