301 SN SO that nostril, and he could make very little use of the other from a similar cause. Nothing appeared exter- nally on that side; hut he was sen- sible of the same swelling within. His sufferings were extreme; yet to himself the greatest was, that he could no longer take snuff, to which he was accustomed. Shortly after- wards he scarcely appeared to be the same person. A surgeon of eminence had undertaken to cure him, after many had declined it; and by attacking, from within, his mouth, which could not be got at by way of the nostrils, he made a per- fect cure. The greatest advantage of all was, that his long disuse of snuff, with the sense of the mischief it bad done him, prevented his re- turning to the custom. By excessive indulgence, the sti- mulus of snuff is lost; it diminishes gradually, until its excitement is no longer felt. It is now that snuff- taking may truly be called a beastly habit. The immediate effect of a pinch of snuff, in quickening the imagination, is like that of a glass of spirituous liquor to some people, in comnTunicating cheerfulness; it is a false fire in both; it is most per- ceived by those who are the least accustomed to either; use wears their stimulus out; since by those who habituate themselves to snuff or drams, the one too often the inse- parable companion of the other, no exhilarating effects are felt; and for the rest, all that can be said is, that both affect the brain in a sensible degree, blunt the faculties, and often terminate in a condition bor- dering on absolute stupidity, torpor of both body and mind, and, as it were, a lethargy of the whole system, mental and corporeal. No public speaker, teacher of languages, or professional singer, ought to abuse the use of snuff; as it evidently, when carried to an inveterate extent, injures articulation, and weakens the force and intonations of the voice, by impeding the free exit and ad- mission of air to and from the lungs. —See Smoking, and Tobacco. SODA.—Obtained by the com- bustion of marine plants, such as the salsola soda; the residue being dis- solved, and subjected to several che- mical processes, in order to separate the impurities. It is made in great abundance in Spain. SODA POWDERS. — The fol- lowing ingredients are to be divided into two separate powders as directed, and added to the water, to be drank in a state of effervescence:— Take Carbonate of soda . J drachm In each blue paper. Acid of tartar ... 25 grains In white paper. Water ^pint. Divide the water into two tumblers; into one put the carbonate of soda, and in the other the tartaric acid, then pour the one into the other and drink. SODA WATER. — Made with prepared natron and acid of tartar, in the above proportions, and bottled. Used in large quantities as a cooling beverage in summer, and supposed to be beneficial in gravel and stone. The modern custom of drinking soda water during, or immediately after dinner, has been a pregnant source of dyspepsia. By inflating the stomach at this time, those musculary contractions are counteracted which are so essential to chymification. “ The quantity of soda thus intro- duced scarcely deserves notice; with the exception of the carbonie acid gas, it may be regarded as water, more mischievous only in conse- quence of the exhilarating quality inducing us to take it at a period at which we should not require the more simple fluid. ”—Paris. Late discoveries have shewn that the carbonic acid exists in a liquid state in soda water; when, therefore, it is hastily swallowed, it robs the stomach of a certain portion of heat, as it passes from a liquid into a 2 D