TE .331 TE form, must be detrimental to the body. A moderate use of tea may sometimes be of service to persons in a perfect state of health, yet, for daily use, it cannot be recommended. It, doubtless, occasions a gentle sti- mulus, and rouses the mind for a short time; hence it is, perhaps, the best and safest refreshment, after violent heat and fatigue of the body. Hence, as the means of increasing perspiration, tea is an useful beverage to travellers in cold weather, when insensible perspiration is liable to be checked. Hypochondriac and hys- teric people, however, are much de- ceived in the efficacy of tea as a diluent drink; for all the evils arising from relaxation, a weak stomach, and flatulency, under which such persons usually labour, are, by the habit of drinking tea, increased to the most alarming degree. The cold stomach which they propose to warm by it is a mere phantom of the brain, for this sensation of cold is nothing but relaxation,which, instead of being removed by hot liquors, is increased by every repetition of them. Des Guignes gives the following characters of the different kinds of tea, as he observed them in China, using the common English ortho- graphy, with their usual price at Canton. The following are called generally black teas: — Bohea tea, from Bo-lie, the name of a place, is of a black cast, and yields a deep yellow infusion; sells in China for twelve to fifteen taels, 6.?. 8d. each, per pic, about 1301bs., or, from 7\d. to 9\d. per pound. Congou tea, from cong fou, great care. The infusion is lighter than that of bohea, rather green, and seldom of an agreeable smell; sells for 25 to 27 taels, or from 15\d. to 1 G^d. per pound. Souchong tea, from se ow chong, a very little sort. The infusion is a fine green, smells agreeably; the leaves ought to have no spots on them : sells for 40 to 50 taels, oi' from 2s. 6hd. to 2s. 6$d. Pekoe tea, from pe koiu, white leaf bud. The infusion is light and rather green, has a violet scent, and a very fine perfume in the mouth; sells for 34 to 60 taels, or, from Is. Qd. to 3s. 1 d. Imperial tea—mao tclia, of the Chinese, has a green cast; the infu- sion is also green, the leaves large, and of a fine green; has a slight smell of soap. To these may be added:— Campoi tea, which is intermediate, between congou and souchong. Padre, or pou chong tea, a very fine souchong, imported in papers for presents. Caper tea, made into balls with gum, and scented, imported only in small boxes. The green teas of Des Guignes are, Songlo tea, from the place where it is grown ; has a leaden cast, the infusion is green; the leaves are longer and more pointed than the black teas: sells for 24 to 26 taels, or from Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. The infe- rior sorts have yellow leaves, and a smell of sprats. Hyson tea, from he tchune, first crop, is of a leaden cast; the infu- sion is a fine green, the leaves are handsome, without spots, and open quite flat; it has a strong taste, and a slight smell of roasted chestnuts ; sells for 50 to 60 taels, or, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 1 d. Tchu tclia, of which he gives no characters, but it sells for 65 to 70 taels, or 3s. 4d. to 3s. 7 d. per lb. Besides, there are imported into England these green teas:— Hyson slcin or bloom tea, being the large loose leaves of the hyson; a faint delicate smell; infusion a pale green. Superior hyson skin, intermediate between hyson and hyson skin. Gunpowder tea, a superior hyson, in small round grains, of a blooming greenish hue.