OC 220 oc of quacks who dubbed themselves amara (bitter bean) and mix no- brewers’ druggists, and who were mica under the name of cocculus almost annihilated some twelve or Indicus, when pleading to the minor fourteen years ago, passed the faba offence. OATS.—When deprived of the husk, and reduced to groats or grits, oats are used as the common dish for the infirm and sick. They im- part to water a thick mucilage, which, with the addition of a few currants boiled in it, is of a nourishing and slightly aperient quality. N ot much more than half a century ago, it was computed that nearly a fourth part of the inhabitants of Great Britain lived upon oat bread; and it is sup- posed under an improved system of agriculture, more nourishment per acre may be obtained from oats, than from the same quantity of barley or rye; but to wheat it is evidently inferior (see Groats). Porridge made of oatmeal, the common food of children, and the working classes of adults in Scotland, is not so heavy as that of wheat flour, or hasty pudding; though both of them require vigorous digestive organs, robust constitutions, and strong exercise, in order to produce a proper nutriment.—See Bread, Porridge, &c. OCTOBER BEER.—Old or strong beer is designated by the term October, because that month is held to be peculiarly propitious to the brewing of this grateful beverage. Nor wanting is the brown October, drawn, Mature and perfect, from this dark retreat Of thirty-years; and now his honest front, Flames in the light refulgent, not afraid Even with the vineyard’s best produce to vie. THOMSON. Practical brewers are well aware that the peculiar flavour, and other qualities of malt liquor, depend very much on the water used, the tem- perature of the air, and the parti- cular exposure of the malt-house as well as the brew-house. London porter, therefore, can only be brewed in London, for were the same in- gredients used in any other place, where the same water and other causes conspire to produce the well known qualities of this drink, the same results would not be produced. Hence the impracticability of follow- ing the directions laid down in books for making Edinburgh, Burton, and Windsor ales ; for without the same water, and the same exposure as the famous breweries in those particular places, it would be impossible to produce similar drinks. It is these several circumstances which influ- ence the qualities of beer brewed in October, which for ages has acquired so high a reputation. The state of the air, except so far as regards its temperature, cannot be so parti- cularly appreciated; though some of the changes which take place in water, are known. The decay of vegetables, in immense quantities, must tend to impregnate both rivers and springs with putrid matter, which, if not in great excess, may be rendered inoffensive, by combining with the earthy salts of the water; and, at the same time, these salts will in some degree be neutralized, and the water rendered softer than before; it need not, therefore, be told that the softer the water the better adapted it is for brewing. A late author is, consequently, decidedly wrong, when he says it is to an erro- neous prejudice that October beer owes its fame, and that that which is brewed in February and March must be better.—See Malt Liquors.