HA HA 157 H. HADDOCK.—The haddock, as regards nourishment, is similar to the cod-fish, with the exception that it is easier of digestion, and less firm in substance.—See Gadus JEglefinus. HAGGIS.—A celebrated Scots’ dish. The baggis-bag is the paunch of a sheep. The following directions for making this “chieftain o’ the pudding race,” are given by Mrs. Maciver, in her Cookery Book, pub- lished at Edinburgh, A.D. 1787. “Make the haggis-bag perfectly clean: parboil the draught; boil the liver very well, so as it will grate; dry the meal before the fire ; mince the draught and a pretty large piece of beef very small; grate about half of the liver; mince plenty of the suet and some of the onions small; mix all these materials very well together, with a handful or two of the dried meal; spread them on the table, and season them properly with salt and mixed spices; take any of the scraps of beef that are left from mincing, and some of the water that boiled the draught, and make about a cho- phin (i. e. a quart) of good stock of it; then put all the haggis meat into the bag, and that broth in it; then sew up the bag; but be sure to put out all the wind before you sew it quite close. If you think the bag is thin, you may put it in a cloth. If it is a large haggis, it will take at least two hours boiling.” In haggis of a plainer kind, oat- meal, suet, and onions, compose the chief ingredients. HALLIBUT.—The hallibut, called Umbra Marina, is in great re- uest at the tables of the great. The esh is firm and white, and is con- sidered to be little inferior to the sturgeon. It is a good and whole- some fish; agrees well with a weak stomach: it is rather a large fish, and is held in great estimation in Italy. HAM S.—Smoked hams are a very strong food. If eaten at a pro- per time, they are a wholesome sti- mulus to the stomach; but boiling renders tljeir digestion still more difficult. They should, indeed, to preserve their flavour, rather simmer than boil—the difference between a ham slowly boiled or sinnpered, and one submitted to the action of a fierce fire, is almost incredible. In salting any kind of meat, much of its jelly is washed away, the fibres become stiff, and thus rendered heavier for the stomach. The salt penetrates into the jelly itself, pre- vents its solution in the alimentary canal, and consequently makes it less conducive to nutrition. By smoking, the fibres of meat are covered with an incrustation, the jelly is half burnt, the heat of the chimney occasions the salt to con- centrate, and the fat between the muscles to become rancid; so that such meat, although it may stimulate the palate of an epicure, cannot be wholesome. Much depends on the manner in which hams are cured. 1. To Cure Hams.—Cut the hams from the pig, and rub them well with an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of sal prunella, and a pound of com- mon salt. Lay them in salt pans for ten days ; turn them once during this time, and rub them well with more common salt. Let them lie ten days longer, and turn them every day. Then take them out, scrape them as clean as possible, and dry them well with a clean cloth. Then rub them slightly over with a little salt, and hang them up to dry, but not in too hot a place. 2. Another method.—Take a fat hind-quarter of pork, and out off a fine ham—Then Take—Saltpetre . . 2 ounces Coarse salt . 1 pound Common salt 1 pound Sal prunella . 2 ounces.