375 VE VE divested of tlie earth adhering to them when taken out of the ground, because the little fibres by which it is retained are thereby wounded, and the evaporating surface is increased. They should also be wounded as little as possible, and the tops off turnips or carrots should be cut off close to, but above the root. The next thing to he attended to, is to protect them from the action of the air and frost. This is effected by laying them in heaps, burying them in sand or in earth, immersing them in water or covering them with straw or mats. The action of frost is most de- structive, as if it be considerable, the life of the vegetable is destroyed and it speedily rots. A less degree of frost effects a singular, but hurtful change upon the potatoes, by con- verting part of its starch or mucilage into sugar. The germination of seeds also con- verts their starch into sugar, as is exemplified in the malting of bar- ley. But even after this change has been induced, if the substance be thoroughly dried in a kiln, or other- wise, it will remain a long time with- out decay.—See Fruits. VEGETABLE PRODUC- TIONS, DIVISIONS OF.—The following vegetable productions used as food in the order in which the esculents appear in Bryant’s Flora Dietetica, viz. 1. Apples, 2. Berries, 3. Flowers, 4. Fungi, 5. Grain, 6. Leaves, 7. Legumes, 8. Nuts, 9. Roots, Shoots, Stalks, 10 11. 12. Stone Fruits. (See the above in their respective alphabetical order). The vegetable food of the inhabi- tants of different countries varies with the productions of each: in hot climates, nature, lavish of her stores, pours forth spontaneously a profusion of vegetables, suited to the indolence of the natives, in the temperature and colder climates what nature has abridged. Thus, in our own country, to which nature, with a sparing hand, has administered the necessaries of life, we are enabled to indulge in the luxuries of the Indies. The pine apple, the grape, the melon, and a variety of other delicious fruits, are here brought to a degree of perfec- tion rarely seen even in countries which gave them birth. Certain nations are in the practice of living on a greater variety of vegetables than others. The French, whose cookery is so highly esteemed by some, use a number of herbs scarcely known to us. The Dutch also are celebrated for the produc- tions of their kitchen gardens. The English, as a nation, are certainly more in the practice of eating veget- ables than formerly, hence perhaps the sea scurvy has in a great degree been banished from among us, and the community benefited in various ways. The various articles of nourish- ment we derive from the vegetable kingdom, may with propriety be divided into five orders. I. The different species of farina, or grain, such as wheat, rye, barley, and oats. II. The legumes, or pulse, such as peas, beans, &c. III. The various kinds of salads and pot-herbs. IV. All the different roots; and V. Fruit, or the productions of trees and shrubs. The first of these, namely, the farinaceous, are very nourishing on account of the copious mucilage they contain, but they are likewise diffi- cult to digest.—See Bread. The second order of vegetable aliment includes all the leguminous productions, as beans, peas, lentils, and the like; these contain a solid gluten or mucilage, and afford a rich and strong nutriment, which best agrees with a vigorous stomach. They also have a considerable pro-