CL 70 CO thin epidermis) of the Lauras Cin- namomum of Linnaeus, growing abundantly in the island of Ceylon. It contains a fine essential oil, which renders it a high stimulant; the oil is so pungent, as to be like the actual cautery to the tongue ; one drop of it, to a pint of water, warms the sto- mach, but it is extremely volatile, and much of its strength is lost be- fore it reaches this country. It is unquestionably a most delicate spice, though it is seldom obtained pure from the mercenary Dutch, who were accustomed to send us more cassia than real cinnamon.—See Cassia. Cinnamon, when imported, does not contain more than one hundredth part of its essential oil, and becomes 'one of our mildest aromatics; it breaks short, not fibrous; chewed, it emits a fragrant odour. The leaves of it are aromatic as well as the bark. Cassia can hardly be distinguished from it by the eye. It is a singular fact, that cassia gives no essential oil by distil- lation, though it is stimulant to the mouth and stomach, and impregnates water, which shews that it must con- tain some portion. Cinnamon excites the stomach to stronger action by stimulating its mucous membrane, and causing an increased secretion of gastric juice; it prevents vomiting and colic, and is usefully employed with bark and other tonics in indigestion; in nervous languor, syncope, and hysterics, it is useful; from fifteen grains to thirty for a dose. Three drops to four of the oil of cinnamon, diluted, relieves the atonic and retrocedent gout, like opium and brandy, but the last are best. The compound tincture of cinnamon is a very elegant prepara- tion ; it is useful in nervous languor, flatulence, and a disposition to cramp, and in gouty pains of the stomach. CITRON.—See Lemon. CLARET. — Claret, or clairet (pale-red) is a name given by our neighbours the French to such of their red wines as are not of a deep or high colour. The word itself is a diminutive of clair, bright or trans- parent. Lord Chesterfield, in his celebrated ‘Letters to his Son,’ in- forms him, that claret comes from Bourdeaux; a testimony confirmed by the authors of the ‘ Encyclopedia Britannica,’ who say that the country adjacent to this city, not only pro- duces the finest clarets, but at the season of the vintage, forms one of the most delicious landscapes in the world. Mr. Townsend observes, that a generous wine, produced near Al- cala in Spain, is much used for en- riching the poorer wines in the neigh- bourhood of Bourdeaux, for the pur- pose of making claret. — Journey, vol. iii., p. 302. CLOVES. — The ripe fruit, or perhaps the cups of the unopened flowers of a bay-like tree, growing in the Molucca islands. Their proper- ties are stimulant and aromatic; have a strong but agreeable smell, a bitterish hot pungent taste, and are one of the hottest, most pungent, and acrid articles of the aromatic class. They are stimulant and aphrodisiac, are useful in torpor and cramp of the stomach, and in flatulent colic. They enter our culinary spices; are remarkably disposed to imbibe humi- dity ; and when their essential oil is extracted from them, which the Dutch frequently do, and then mix them with others that have not had it ex- tracted, they readily imbibe from the latter a considerable share both of taste and smell; but their dryness, less pungent odour, and pale colour, discover the fraud. A small quan- tity of the essential oil dropped on lint, and applied to the hollow of a tooth, relieves the tooth-ach. To make a tincture of cloves and mace.—Take, cloves bruised, three ounces, apothecaries’ weight; brandy one quart. Let it steep ten days, and strain through a flannel sieve. It is excellent to flavour bishop or mulled wine.—See Cordials. COCCULUS INDICUS. — The