214 MU MU he succeeded, was poisoned by eat- ing them, and was afterwards deified. The best and safest mushrooms are those which spring up in one night upon a dung bed; where gardeners have found the art to make them grow all the year round. As a test of their being wholesome, they ought to be white above, reddish under- neath, pretty large, plump, tender, easily broken, and of an agreeable taste and smell. The mushrooms that grow in meadows are also very good, as appears by the following lines:— Pratensis optima fungis Natura est; aliis male creditur. It is also to be noted, that if mush- rooms do not retain their natural colour after they are washed, but turn either blue, red, or black, they are dangerous, and ought conse- quently to be rejected. MUSK.—A concrete animal sub- stance found in a quadruped (the Moschus Moschifera of Linnaeus) of the goat kind, inhabiting Thibet and other parts of Asia. It is found in the male only, in a bag situated be- tween the navel and the anus, of the size of a pigeon’s egg when cut out. Its odour is peculiar to most people, if not too strong. The best comes from China. It is of considerable use among perfumers and confec- tioners, and is also employed medi- cinally in spasmodic disorders, as hiccup, fevers, &c., and particu- larly in convulsive complaints. The effects it produces are ease from pain, quiet sleep, and copious per- spiration. It does not, like opium, leave behind it any stupor or lan- guidness. MUSSELS.—A common species of shell-fish. They are of a more solid texture than oysters, and con- sequently not so easily digested. The sea mussels afford a hard, indiges- tible, and, as some imagine, a poi- sonous food. Although the examples of their deleterious nature are very rare, yet they ought not to be eaten without vinegar, or some other ve- getable acid, acting as a corrector of their bad qualities, or, in the opinion of others, as an antidote. They should also be deprived of the little green weed that adheres to them, which is decidedly injurious.—See Fish, Poisonous. MUSTARD.—An ingredient so necessary in all cold salads, and those of the crude kind, that it ought never to be omitted. The flour of mustard is used as a condiment; and the seeds are said to be highly bene- ficial in indigestion, and rheumatic affections. The administration of the white mustard seed has been recently revived, with all the confidence that usually attaches to a new medicine. It is certainly beneficial in morbid cases of the intestinal canal; “but,” says Dr. Paris, “according to my experience, it is serviceable only in such cases as are marked by ali- mentary torpor. In affections at- tended with muscular irritability, or in those associated with a diseased state of the mucous surfaces, it is unquestionably useful. I have known it to ensure a regular alvine dis- charge in persons of costive habits; and I have also found it to correct thatspecies of diarrhoea which attends a diseased condition of the mucous membrane of the intestines.” The unbruised seeds of the white mustard were much recommended by Dr. Mead in abdominal dropsy; and by Bergius in agues; and their virtues have been highly extolled by nu- merous writers, in stimulating the stomach and intestines. It is, how- ever, observed by Cullen, that the seeds given in this form are never broken down or dissolved in the stomach, but pass away entire by stool; consequently, he inferred that they were incapable of producing any beneficial effect. This state- ment appears to have brought them into such a state of disrepute, that they fell into disuse, and it is only of