PY 261 PU green pod, as it is usually eaten with us. The best pot herbs are aspara- gus and artichokes, and are beneficial to those troubled with gravel. Young spring greens and cabbages are wholesome, but after the spring sea son they become indigestible, flatu- lent, and injurious. Young brocoli and cauliflowers are also useful ve- getables ; also spinage.—See Pease, Salads, ifc. PUMPKINS or POMP! ONS.— (Cucurbita, L.)—-There are three kinds of pumpkins, all of which are cooling and emollient. They are difficult of digestion, weaken the stomach, and create flatulent colic. They agree best in hot weather with young bilious people; but persons of a cold phlegmatic constitution ought to abstain from them. They are usually prepared for the table with some aromatic herbs, as pars- ley, mustard, onions, pepper, &c. They are also preserved in sugar, in order to render them more whole- some and pleasing to the taste. They contain an oil in the seed procured by expression, which is recommended to soften the skin and make it softer. Pumpkins ought to be tender, fresh gathered, and with a white and soft pulp.—See Melons. PUNCH.—Of punch we shall say nothing further (see Ardent Spirits, p. 23), than, as the chaplain in Jo- nathan Wild observes, “ it is a much better orthodox liquor than wine, for there is not a word spoken against it in the Scriptures.” Ardent spirits, however, are rendered still more contracting, and prejudicial to the stomach, when combined with acids, as in punch. Punch is made in va- rious ways:— 1. Wine Punch.—Arack, two pints; juice of twelve lemons; white sugar, one pound; port wine, two pints; hot tea, six pints. 2. White sugar, three quarters of a pound, flavoured by rubbing off the yellow peel of three lemons; port wine, one gallon; boil, adding at the end, cinnamon, half an ounce; strain, and add arack, one pint, and juice of nine lemons. 3. Tea Punch. — Hot tea, two pints; arack, half a bottle (about thirteen ounces and a half); white sugar, four ounces, flavoured by rub- bing off the yellow peel of four lemons; add juice of eight lemons. 4. Cold Punch.—Arack, port wine, and watei-, of each two pints; juice of eight lemons; white sugar, one pound. 5. Iced Punch. — Champagne, or Rhenish wine, two pints; arack, one pint; juice of six lemons; white sugar, one pound, flavoured by rub- bing off the yellow peel of six lemons; ice as cream. 6. Shrub Punch.—Lemon or lime juice, one pint and a half; strain, and add white sugar, four pounds, rubbing part of it upon twelve of the lemons to get off the yellow peel, before squeezing them; rum, four pints: used to make punch, by put- ting half a pint into two pints of hot infusion of tea.—See Shrub, Swig, Wassail Boivl. PURSLAIN.—Grows in gardens, is put into cooling broths and salads; it purifies the blood, allays sharp humours, is good against the scurvy, and expels worms. It is hard of digestion and creates wind. It agrees in hot weather with young persons of a hot and bilious constitution. PUTREFACTION.—A state of decay, or rottenness. A change of matter from one condition to an- other; illustrated by the putrid or putrefactive fermentation; the spon- taneous decomposition of such ani- mal and vegetable substances as exhale a fetid smell. The solid and the fluid matters are resolved into gaseous compounds and vapours, which escape, and unite an earthy residuum. The requisites to this process are, 1. A certain degree of humidity, 2. The access of atmospheric air, 3. A certain degree of heat: