QU QU 263 the earth, and flies heavily, for which reasons Pliny calls it rather a terrestrial than an aerial bird. It runs extremely quick, and is as wanton and lascivious as the par- tridge. QUAVIVER. (Sea Dragon).—A fish of excellent taste. It is tender, firm, short, and is easy of digestion. There are two sorts, the great and small, the last of which only is used for food. It usually frequents stony and sandy places. It has sharp ve- nomous fins on its back, with which it defends itself against the fisher- men. If they are pricked with them, the place swells, accompanied with pain, inflammation, and fever. These little fins do not lose their piquancy even after the fish is dead; for when the cooks happen to be pricked by them, they suffer the same inconve- nience as if the fish had been alive. QUASSIA, (Quassia Excelsa).— The virtues of quassia were discovered by one Quassy, a negro, from whom the secret was bought; for a full nar- rative of which see Stedman’s account. It is the wood of the root of a middle sized tree, growing in Surinam. The bark is preferred by the inhabitants. It is used in debility of the stomach and intestines, and in fevers. It is one of the purest, most concentrated hitters, and yet one of the least astringent; so that it is not calcu- lated for hemorrhages, or affections of the intestines; and still it is not a warm bitter, like orange peel, or chamomile. It is frequently used in intermittents. Tissot recommends it for restoring the tone of the sto- mach, when diminished by venereal excesses. It prevents colic, counter- acts spasm, is useful in low fever, and corrects the tendency to vomiting from mere indigestion: e. g. Take—The wood of quassia, 1 dr. Boiling water . . 8 oz. Infuse for six hours. To two ounces of the strained infu- sion add a drachm of the compound tincture of lavender, which is di- rected to be taken three times a day. The consumption of quassia in breweries is immense; it is intro- duced into the malt in the form of extract. It is probably the most harmless of all bitters. The physi- cians prescribe the decoction to their patients, to the extent of a quarter of an ounce of the bark in a day,— as much as the brewer was accus- tomed to put into nine gallons of his porter. When the porter brewers made use of quassia, it was either in small chips or rasped, and put into the copper (with the hops), in a quantity of about an ounce to the barrel. QUENELLES.—A fine farce. It is generally poached when used. QUINCES, (Pyrus Cydonia).— There are two species of quinces, namely, the apple and pear quince: the latter are the most wholesome, particularly those of Portugal. They are an excellent antiseptic, and, in this respect, the best kind of fruit, as they contain an acid, and much mu- cilage. They are not productive of obstructions; but their pulp, like that of all other fruit, is digested with some difficulty. They are generally eaten boiled with sugar, and are ex- cellent in dysentery, on account of their copious mucilage. Quince seeds made into a decoction, are demul- cent and expectorant. QUIN'S SAUCE.—The following is commonly called Quin’s Sauce, “ and was given tome (Dr. Kitch- ener) by a very sagacious sauce- maker.”—Cook's Oracle, p. 339. Two wine-glasses of port, and four of walnut pickle, four of mushroom ketchup, and half a dozen anchovies, pounded; the like number of echa- lots, sliced and pounded; a table- spoonful of soy, and half a drachm of cayenne pepper: let them simmer gently for ten minutes; strain it; and when cold, put it into bottles; well corked, and sealed over, it will keep a considerable time.—See Con- diments.