BR BR 46 Fresh baked bread always con- tains much of an indigestible nature, which is remedied, either by allow- ing it to dry for a day or two, or by toasting it. This ought to be con- stantly done, particularly in times of scarcity, both on account of health and economy. Stale bread, in every respect, deserves the preference: and persons troubled with flatulency, cramp of the stomach, and indiges- tion, should on no account eat new bread, and still less hot rolls and butter. Indeed pastry, generally, is esteemed unwholesome. The po- rous quality of bread arises from the fixed air having been expelled in baking; and the more spongy the more wholesome is the bread consi- dered. But new-baked bread, and rolls in particular, require a sound stomach, because they contain much mucilage, in consequence of not hav- ing parted with their moisture; and wheat flour is more viscid than that of rye, which is the bread com of most nations on the Continent. Bread and butter, together with cheese, as they are eaten in Holland and Germany, form a mass scarcely digestible. The crust of bread, which has been more dried by the heat of the oven, is easiest digested; it con- tains the empryreumatic in part, ex- pelled from the flour by fire; it pro- duces an emollient effect on the bow- els ; but, at the same time, is more heating and less nourishing than the softer parts or crumb. The great difference in bread is owing, partly to the various species of grain from which it is made, and partly to the time the flour has been kept; for, when new, it is more diffi- cult to deprive it of its tenacity, on account of its being more or less cleaned from the bran ; owing to the different methods of fermenting and baking it; to the difference of the water with which the flour has been kneaded: and lastly, to the various ingredients of which the paste has been compounded. The softness of the millstones used in grinding the flour may also vitiate the bread, by introducing particles of sand and marble, so as to make it equally nox- ious to the teeth, and oppressive to the stomach. Well-baked and tho- roughly dried bread, is easily dis- solved by water, without rendering it viscid or gelatinous: hence it is adapted for the use of the debili- tated, as well as for every age or temperament. It is not necessary to eat bread with every kind of diet; it is more useful and necessary with such articles that contain much nourishment in a small bulk, in order to give the stomach a proper degree of expansion. Besides, the addition of bread to animal food has another advantage, namely, that of preventing the disgust attending a too copious use of animal food, and its strong tendency to putrefaction. But if we accustom ourselves to eat new baked bread with provisions already indigestible in themselves, as fat geese, bacon, and the like, we render them still more unsup- portable to our digestive organs. Of the different kinds of grain from which bread is prepared, that of rye is by far the most wholesome for people of a sedentary life, as well as for the delicate and nervous. For though it be less nourishing, it is likewise less tenacious, and more easily digested than bread made of wheat. Compositions of various substances to serve as substitutes for bread, such as grey-pease, horse-beans, potatoes, and many other farinaceous vegeta- bles, have been repeatedly tried; and though a very nourishing and palatable bread was formed of flour, mixed with potatoes and rice, the* prejudices in favour of wheaten bread, by all classes, were too great and inveterate, to admit so useful and beneficial an innovation ; although, as regards public and private econo- my, they are not only proper, par- ticularly in times of scarcity, but