387 WA WA this effect, there is not a more ser- viceable remedy than pure water. How eminently serviceable the me- dicinal waters both of hot and cold springs are for this purpose, is well known from experience; but the greater part of their efficacy in this respect is, beyond all dispute, owing to the quantity of pure elementary water they contain. The singular efficacy of pure hot water also ap- pears from the nature and use of drinking tea, for it is certainly a mistake to attribute all the good effects of tea to the leaves of the plant. The principal virtue of this infusion is, doubtless, owing to the quantity of pure hot water employed in the making of it; while the herb by its astringency prevents the fibres of the body from being too much re- laxed and weakened by it, therefore, as numerous diseases are attended with a strong contraction of the fibres, all physicians who are well versed in practice, will be cautious of allowing too freely this astringent plant in such cases. That tea is an astringent or styptic plant appears from several experiments, particu- larly from its turning inky with a solution of iron or the chalybeate waters, like oak bark, balustines, and other astringent vegetables; and to speak a serviceable truth, we have in our own country many plants whose virtues exceed those of the Indian tea; and choice should be made of those plants for medicinal use according to the difference of distempers. Thus, for example, in diseases of the breast, Paul’s betony is proper; common betony in disor- ders of the nerves; balm and penny- royal in disorders of the uterus; ground ivy in ulcers of the kidneys; buck bean in the scurvy, &c.; being respectively made into tea with the purest water and drank hot. Again, common chamomile may be advan- tageously used by way of tea against the cholic; parsley in the stone ; crowfoot in the moist asthma, &c. Rosemary tea is by maily recofn- mended as excellent in many ner- vous diseases, viz.—the epilepsy, palsy, and apoplexy, and for defend- ing the body and preventing the catching of cold, especially if made with the flowers of the plant. But in all teas it is a caution of the highest moment that the water designed for the infusion be not suffered to boil long, but as it simmers strongly, im- mediately be poured upon the plant in order to prevent the loss of its most subtile parts. It is well known that a fulness of blood, and juices, brings on many distempers, but to prevent this ful- ness, the most proper thing is hot water, made into an infusion with herbs, which thus, by dissolving the glutinous humours, prevents the mass of blood from increasing too fast. A free use of water is equally serviceable in purifying bad juices, as it readily washes off their impure, saline, and drossy parts, through all the excretory passages of the body ; besides this, the drinking of water promotes all the evacuations, keeps the belly soluble, preserves the uri- nary passages open, washes and cleanses the same from the adhesion of gravelly or stony matter, and powerfully promotes thatmosthealthy discharge of insensible perspiration. Lastly, water is the effectual vehicle of all other remedies. Thus, anti- scorbutics and vegetable medicines, appropriated to cleanse the blood, prove of little service in correcting the depravities of the humours, un- less their virtues are carried by the assistance of water, in the form of decoctions and infusions, into the juices and remote parts of the body. To sum up all; in whatever cases there is a necessity, either of altering, evacuating, opening, or resolving, water is, at all times, the best of remedies. WATER, PURIFICATION OF COR- RUPTED.—As the health of man prin- cipally depends on the purity and