WA WA 383 rather suspended than held in true solution. Such for instance, is that of the Thames, which taken up at London at low water, is a very soft and good water, and after rest and filtration, it holds but a very small portion of any thing that could prove noxious, or impede any manufacture. It is also excellently adapted for sea voyages; but it here undergoes a remarkable and spontaneous change. No water carried to sea becomes sooner putrid than that of the Thames. When a cask is opened, after being kept a month or two a quantity of inflammable air escapes, and the water is so black and offen- sive as scarcely to be borne. Upon racking it off, however, into large earthen vessels, (oil jars are com- monly used for the purpose), and exposing it to the air, it generally deposits a quantity of black slimy mud, becomes clear as crystal, and remarkably sweet and palatable.— (See Observations on the Purifications of corrupted Waters). The Seine has as high a reputation in Fi ance, and appears from accurate experiments, to be a river of great purity. It might be expected that a river which has passed by a large town and re- ceived all its impurites, and been used by numerous dyers, tanners, hatters and the like, who crowd to its banks for the convenience of plenty of water, should thereby ac- quire such a fullness as to be very perceptible to chemical examination for a considerable distance below the town ; but it appears from the most accurate examination, that where the stream is at all considerable, these kinds of impurities have but little influence in permanently altering the quality of the water, especially as they are for the most part only suspended, and not truly dissolved, and therefore mere rest, and espe- cially filtration, will restore the water to its original purity. Proba- bly, therefore, the most accurate chemist would find some difficulty to distinguish water taken up at Lon- don, from that procured at Harrtpton- court, after each has been purified by simple filtration, &c. Stagnated Waters.—The waters that present the greatest impurities to the senses, are those of stagnated pools, and low marshy countries. They are filled with the remains of animal and vegetable matter under- going decomposition, and during that process, becoming in part solu- ble in water, thereby affording a rich nutriment to the succession of living plants and insects, which are sup- plying the place of those that perish. From the want of sufficient agitation in these waters, vegetation goes on undisturbed, and the surface beomes covered with converva,* and other aquatic plants ; and as these stand- ing waters are in general shallow, they receive the full influence of the sun, which further promotes all changes that are going on within them. The taste is generally vapid, and destitute of that freshness and agreeable coolness which distinguish spring water. It should however be remarked, that stagnant waters are generally soft, and many of the im- purities are only suspended, conse- quently separable by filtration ; and perhaps the unpalatableness of the drink has caused it to be in worse credit than it deserves, on the score of salubrity. The decidedly noxious effects produced by the air of marshes and stagnant pools, have often been supposed to extend to the internal use of these waters; and often, espe- cially in hot climates, a residence near these places has been as much condemned on one account as on the other, and in like manner, an improvement in health has been as much attributed to a change of water as of air. * I lie name of a genus of plants in the Linnean system : a kind of moss, named from its use formerly in healing broken bones.