DO 103 DO remote parts of the machine; nor can it he a matter of surprise, that the aberrations of this central vis- cus should give rise to the greater number of diseases with which the body is afflicted; nor that these applications should be so effective, which are directed for their cure, through the medium of its sympa- thies. The stomach suffers equally in its turn from the derangement of different organs; sprains of tendons, ligamentous structures, blows on the head and other parts, produce sick- ness at the stomach, and frequently direct vomiting. The sympathy be- tween the stomach and the matrix, and thence to the brain, is no less unequivocal.—See Stomach. To distinguish between the sym- pathetic and primary affections of the digestive organs, is a mystery of the greatest practical importance; and the profession is under much obligation to Mr. Abernethy, the late distinguished surgeon of St. Bartho- lomew Hospital, for his endeavours to show how the stomach and bowels are liable to become affected from local derangement, and vice versa.— See Indigestion. From the preceding observations, it will be seen that the changes which the food undergoes in the digestive organs of the more complicated ani- mal, bipeds as well as quadrupeds, are three-fold; and distinct organs are allotted to each of the three pro- cesses. Digestion takes place in the stomach; chylification in the small intestines; and a third process hither- to undenominated, is performed in the large intestines. It is probable, therefore, that in some cases, one set of organs may be more disordered than the others, consequently one of the above-mentioned processes may fail more than the rest. For instance, the stomach may digest the food in a healthy manner, although the in- testines do not perform their share of the changes which they ought to effect. The food is converted in the stomach into a viscid semi-transpa- rent substance, called chyme; and that the change is produced by the agency of the gastric juice, secreted, that is, furnished by the blood, like every other secretion, by the exhaling vessels of the very numerous arteries strewed over every part of the sto- mach, is a point as well ascertained as any in physiology.—(See Secre- tion). In a state of health this con- version takes place without any appearance of that rational decompo- sition which animal and vegetable matter would ordinarily undergo in a warm place. When, however, di- gestion is imperfect, gaseous fluids are extricated from the alimentary mass. Vegetable food become acid, and oils becomes rancid. Uneasy sensations are also felt, and undi- gested aliment may be observed in the faeces. “ A disordered state of secretion either as to quantity or quality, will be the natural effect of irritation of a secreting organ. This is evidently the case with the tongue; and Ave may Avith great probability conjecture, thatthe same consequence also takes place in the stomach. As likewise the juices of the stomach are the immediate agents of diges- tion, that bowel must be disturbed in pi'oportion, as its secretions are deficient or vitiated. If undigested matter pass from the stomach into the intestines, it can scarcely be sup- posed that these powers are capable of converting it into chyle; and it may become irritating to those or- gans, in consequence of the chemical changes which it may then undergo. When indigestion is imperfect, animal and vegetable substances experience considerable chemical changes before they leave the stomach; and similar changes may continue to take place during the time they are detained in the bowels, unless counteracted by the powers of the digesttve organs— powers which seem chiefly to belong to the fluids, which are secreted into them.—Vide Abernethy, on theConsti-