WH 392 WH water runs off clear, when the flour will be separated into three distinct parts—namely; a grey elastic sub- stance that sticks to the hand, which, owing to its properties, has acquired the name of the glutinous, or vegeto animal part; a white powder which precipitates to the bottom of the liquid, and is the feeculum or starch; a substance which remains dissolved in the water, which appears to be a kind of mucilaginous extract. The word corn, in the general ac- ceptation of the term, denotes either a genus of plants which have all a grain or an ear fit for bread, the ordinary food of man (see Bread), or the grain, or seed, of that plant, sepa- rated from the spica, or ear. In the commerce of grain it generally means wheat; but the farmers rank among the number of corns, several other grains, as rye, barley, &c. Authors are much deceived concerning the discovery and culture of corn. The common opinion, however, is, that in the first ages men lived on the spontaneous fruits of the earth, as acorns, &c., having neither the use of corn, nor the art of preparing or rendering it fit for consumption.* Ceres has the credit of being the first that pointed out the use of this plant, on which account she was ranked among the gods: and hence Ceres is metaphorically called both bread and corn, as the word Bacchus is some- * The Athenians pretend that it was among them that the art of raising corn began; and the Cretans, Sicilians, and Egyptians lay claim to the same. Some think that the claim of the Sicilians is best supported, that being the country of Ceres; others, however, maintain, that it was in Egypt that the cultivating this grain had its origin. And it ap- pears from both sacred and profane his- tory, that Egypt was anciently the most fertile of all other countries in corn; furnishing with it a considerable part of the people subject to the Roman em- pire, and was therefore called the dry nurse of Rome and Italy. times used figuratively to signify wine. “ Bacchus and Ceres, pow’rs divine, Who gave us corn for mast,* for water, wine.” Dhyden’s Virgil. The process attending the cultiva- tion of corn is well described in the following lines:— “ The husbandman Pursues his cares; his plough divides the glebe; The seed is sown ; rough rattle o’er the clods The harrSw’s teeth ; quick weeds his hoe subdues; The sickle labours, and the slow team strains. Till grateful harvest-home rewards his toils.” Independently of changes already mentioned, flour, from whatever spe- cies of corn it may be obtained, is likewise disposed to the vinous fer- mentation, on account of its sac- charine contents. The aptitude for fermentation of these farinaceous seeds increases, if they first be con- verted into malt; inasmuch as by this process the gluten (see Gluten), which forms the germ is separated, and the amylaceous or starchy part appears to be turned into saccharine matter, (see Fermentation of starch and malt). WHEAT, BUCK.—(Polygonum Fagopyrum). This grain constitutes the principal food of the inhabitants of Russia, Germany, and Switzer- land. WHEAT, EASTERN BUCK. {Polygonum Dinaricatum). The roots reduced to a meal, are the ordinary food of the Siberians. WHEAT, INDIAN.—See Zea Mays. WHEAT, TURKEY.—A native of America, where it is much culti- vated, as it is also in some parts of Europe, especially in Germany and Italy. * Mast is the fruit of the oak and beech.