282 SA SA distinct and fully known. Among other salubrious properties, may be mentioned its anthelmintic virtues, which have been rendered very evi- dent by the publication of some late cases. It appears that whenever salt is denied to the human being, dis- eases of the stomach are general, and that worms are engendered in the body; and in one instance, where a person, from aversion to that sub- stance, had refused it either in food, or in any other form, they appear to have been the consequence, and re- mained for many years. In Ireland, salt is a well-known remedy for hots in the horse; and among the poor people, a dose of common salt is esteemed a cure for the worms. Lord Somerville attributes the health of his flock of 203 Merino sheep, which he purchased in Spain, principally to the use of which he has made of salt for the last seven years on his farm. These sheep having been accustomed to the use of salt in their native land; his Lord- ship considered, that in this damp climate, and in the rich land of So- mersetshire, it would be absolutely necessary to supply them with it regularly. A ton of salt is used annually for every 1000 sheep; a handful is put in the morning on a flat stone or slate, ten of which set a few yards apart are enough for one hundred sheep. Of a flock of near 1000, there were not ten old sheep which did not take it kindly, and not a single lamb which did not consume it greedily. Salt is likewise a preventive of disorders in stock fed with rank green food, as clover or turnips, and it is deemed a specific for the rot. In order to obtain salt as pure as possible, and free from the bitter magnesia, which is a great promoter of putrefaction, the following simple but ingenious process invented by Lord Dundonald, may be easily adopted :—Dissolve as much com- mon salt in a given quantity of water, as it is capable of containing in solution. Take another quantity of salt not larger than the former, and put it into a glass funnel, or similar vessel of wood or earthen- ware, which ought to be lined with coarse thick linen cloth. While the strong brine is hot, pour it over the dry salt, of which it will not dissolve a particle, but merely wash away the magnesia and other impurities ad- hering to its surface; and by repeat- ing this affusion several times, the washed salt will become tolerably pure. The whole of this process depends wholly on the principle that water can dissolve only a cer- tain quantity of salt, and that the magnesia may be washed away with such a supersaturated solution, while the salt to which it adheres remains insoluble. Salt thus purified, will doubtless be more wholesome, and more effectual for all the purposes of salting and pickling provisions; as the magnesia contained in the com- mon salt renders double, perhaps treble the quantity necessary, which would be required were it in a pure state, or deprived of the magnesia. SALT OF STEEL. —See Sulphate of Iron. SALT OF TARTAR.—See Tartar. SALT, PRIMITIVE.—Under this classification are comprehended, those salts which are considered as simple or primitive, and which are occasionally called simple salts. This order is divided into three genera, comprehending saline terrestrial sub- stances, alkaline, and acids. SALTS, NEUTRAL.—Under the name of neutral or secondary salts, are included such substances as are composed of two primitive saline substances, combined together in a certain proportion. Such salts are called neutral, because they do not possess the characters of primitive salts—that is, they are neither acid nor alkaline; e. g. Epsom salts, nitre, &c. But in many secondary