MA MA 201 with the same avidity, and the same pleasure; and they have nothing to fear from those unhappy accidents, which sometimes result from the use of turnips. How much is it to be wished that these united advantages, which are founded upon constant experience, may destroy that dis- trust, and those prejudices, which this new root may, perhaps, at first inspire among the French; for it is only in some provinces in Germany, in which it is cultivated with the greatest success, that the preference is given to it over every other kind of fodder, and in which it is em- ployed for fattening the greater part of those herds of cattle, which are every year brought for sale into this kingdom. “ I shall esteem myself happy, if the truths which I have stated should encourage the cultivation of a root, which may increase the riches of the state, and contribute to the ease, and to the happiness of the people.” MANGO.—The fruit of a large tree, growing in the Isle of Java, and other parts of the East Indies; but according to Major Campbell, Goa produces the best mangoes in the world (see Journey, part 111, p. 23). They are brought into Eu- rope either candied or pickled. In the latter case they are opened with a knife, and the middle filled up with fresh ginger,garlick,mustard and salt, with oil or vinegar. This fruit when ripe, is eaten by the natives, with or without wine, or macerated in wine. The bark and gum of the tree are also used medicinally: and the stalks calcined are said to take away warts. MANNA.—The concrete juice of the ash, growing in Sicily and the southern parts of Europe. Brianfon manna is esteemed the best. A si- milar juice may be obtained from the larch tree. It exudes from every part of the tree; but for a more abundant supply, incisions are made through the bark, whence it flows more freely, and is soon inspissated by the sun’s heat. The whitest, lightest, purest, dryest, and that which has a crystalline appearance when broken, a sweet taste, and rather biting to the tongue, is to be preferred. This is called flake manna, to distinguish it from a coarse com- mon sort. It contains much sac- charine principle, mucilage, and aroma. It is a medicinal drug of great use in common practice as a gentle purgative, from one ounce to one and a half; it is, however, by no means, alone, a good purgative for adults, although it enters very well into combinations. It is very use- ful for children who are habitually costive, where there is not much glairy matter containing calomel. With an equal quantity of the oil of almond, and the addition of a little water, it forms an useful emulsion in cases where opium is necessary, as it px-events costiveness in the teeth- ing and pulmonary complaints of children. Manna is classed among the num- ber of gums. The peasants of Mount Libanus, in Syria, it is said, eat manna ordinarily, as others do ho- ney; and at Mexico they have a manna which they eat as we do cheese. It is sometimes counter- feited by compositions of sugar, honey, and purgative materials. MANN A-G R A S S. (Festucca fluitans).—So called in Germany and Poland, because its seeds have a re- markably sweet and agreeable taste, particularly before the plant comes to its full growth. It excels in rich- ness and nutriment all the other ve- getable productions in Europe; and, boiled in milk, it affords excellent soups as well as puddings. Two ounces of this manna, properly cook- ed in milk and water, would be a sufficient meal for the most robust and laborious man. Boiled in water alone, in the proportion of one ounce to three pints of water evaporated to one quart, with the addition of some sugar and white wine, it makes