314 SU su Yet the small stones contained in strawberries, as well as in grapes, are said to accumulate in the intes- tines of some individuals, and to give rise to the most obstinate constipa- tions, nay even to the iliac passion (violent colic, terminating in an in- version of the peristaltic motion). The best method of eating straw- berries is with pure water, and sweet- ened with a little sugar; they are more heating with wine, but less wholesome; with milk or cream they are an agreeable but improper com- position. As a medicine, the wild strawberry is far preferable to any other. A pleasant drink is made of strawbemes, water, and sugar-, which is much used as a cooling and re- freshing beverage in summer, to quench thirst. They agree well with young people of a sanguine and choleric complexion, and are not injurious unless taken in too great a quantity at a time. STURGEON.—A large fish living both in the sea and fresh water. It has an excellent taste ; it grows fat in the rivers, and becomes more de- licious than if it had lived in the sea. It usually weighs about a hundred pounds, and doubles this. It is a strong and vigorous fish; but as it has no teeth, it can only feed on the filth and froth of the sea. It is very rare in France. It is usually pickled in those places where it is caught in great plenty, and exported. The belly is reckoned the best part of the fish. It was much esteemed by the ancient Romans ; it is a nourishing and solid food, rather difficult of di- gestion, and apt to derange the sto- mach; but if moderately used by strong and hale young people, with good stomachs and who use exercise, it always agrees well.—See Fish. SUBSTANCES, INDIGESTI- BLE.—Many substances are so hard and intractable as to resist the ac- tion of the digestive organs, with- out undergoing any other change than that of being softened or other- wise partially altered, instead of being entirely subacted, and reduced to chyme or chyle. Such in parti- cular are the seeds of plants; and it is well worthy of observation, though hitherto it has been overlooked by physiologists, that, while birds or other animals derive from this kind of food a vei-y valuable nutriment, not- withstanding that it passes through them without being completely di- gested, the seeds themselves thus acted upon derive also a reciprocal benefit in many instances; and are by that means rendered more easily capable of expanding the soil into which they are afterwards thrown as by accident, and have their produc- tive power very greatly increased. The olive tree, till of late years, has only been raised in the south of France by cuttings, or wild plants obtained from the woods. It was remarked by an attentive inhabitant of Marseilles, that when produced naturally, it is by means of kernels carried into the woods, and sown there by birds which had swallowed the olives. By the act of digestion, it was further observed, these olives are deprived of their natural oil, and hence the kernels become per- meable to the moisture of the earth; the dung of the bird at the same time serving for manure, and per- haps the soda which the dung con- tains, by combining with a portion of the oil that has escaped digestion, still further favouring germination. In prosecution of this fact, a number of turkeys were made to swallow ripe olives ; the dung was collected con- taining the swallowed kernels, the whole was placed in a stratum of earth, and frequently the kernels thus treated vegetated easily, and a number of young plants were pro- cured. And in order to produce upon olives a similar effect to that experienced from the digestive power of the stomach, a quantity of them were afterwards macerated in an alkaline lixivium; they were then