27 BA BA of tartar, a drachm of each to a pint of the decoction; sweetened with manna or sugar, as the state of the patient’s bowels may require, it roves nutritive and aperient. This rink is also greatly improved by the addition of lemon-juice and sugar- candy. BARLEY BREAD.—See Bread. BARLEY BROTH. — To make Scotch Barley Broth.—Take a tea- cup-full of pearl barley, and one gallon of water; boil gently for half an hour; then add three pounds of lean beef, or neck of mutton, some carrots and turnips cut small, a pint of green peas, if in season, and some leeks. Let these boil gently for two hours longer in a close soup-kettle, after which the broth will be fit for use. Barley-meal consists of the decor- ticated seed ground into a coarse flour. It has a greyish white colour, a peculiarly mawkish smell, and a mucilaginous taste. According to Fourcroy and Vauquelin, it contains starch, sugar, a little unctuous coag- ulable oil, an animal substance partly soluble in water, and partly forming glutenous flocculi; phosphate of lime and magnesia, silica, iron, and a little acetic acid. Proust has published a comparative analysis of raw and malted barley. He found in Resin. Gum. Sugar. Gluten. Starch. Hordeine. Barley 1 4 5 3 32 55 = 100 Malt 1 15 15 1 56 12 = 100 It appears, consequently, that by the process of germination, gum, sugar, and starch, are formed at the expense of hordeine, a principle discovered in barley by Proust. It is obtained in the same way and along with the starch, which is re- moved by decoction with water, while the hordeine remains undissolved. It has thus great analogy with lig- nine, and is considered by Raspail to be nothing but the powder of the husk, which, considering its quantity, is not probable, although there is none of it found in pearl barley.—■ Duncan's Disp. p. 466. Barley is one of our most valuable grains, and is used in a variety of ways. Entire, it is given as food to horses; and pearl barley and barley- meal are used by man, especially in northern countries. The former is eaten boiled until it is soft, either simply with some condiment, as salt, sugar, currants, cinnamon, or made into broth with meat, either alone or with other vegetables. The flour is .used in the form of porridge and un- leavened cakes. It cannot be made into bread, and is incapable of the panary fermentation, which is owing to the small proportion of gluten in its composition. It is probably for the same reason that it is less nutritious. On the other hand it has the advantage of having no ten- dency to induce constipation, so that some persons who are habitually costive derive great advantage from the use of barley-meal cakes and porridge. Hufeland (an eminent German physician), highly praises what he calls prepared barley-meal as a nutritious food, easy of digestion, and devoid of all stimulus, in atro- phic diseases* and hectic fever. It is prepared by tying barley-meal up in a cloth, and boiling it till every thing soluble is removed. On the contrary, it is the soluble part that * Emaciation, loss of strength, ac- companied by hectic fever, the febrile symptoms of which are ushered in with a sense of chilliness, succeeded by increase of heat, accelerated pulse, fol- lowed by perspiration. From the be- ginning of the disease the body wastes ; and in the advanced stage, the ema- ciation is very considerable. It is in almost every instance a symptomatic af- fection, that is, the consequence of some other disease, as the green sickness, king’s evil, consumption, diseased vis- cera, abscess, &c.—See New Load. Med. Pharmaceut. and Posolog. Pocket Book, p. 224.