INTRODUCTION. xvu different objects as regards exercise, and of the different kinds of it in use among the ancients : the three last books treat of the effects of these exer- cises ; and of their use in strengthening the body and preserving health. It is there that we meet combined in works of one individual, more erudition, and a better judgment, than is to be met with in any other author: Haller, never- theless, reproaches him with being too partial to the ancients; and not only with not having said any thing absolutely new as regards the exercises in use among the moderns, but even with having placed riding as among the inconveni- ences prejudicial to health: '‘Doubtless,” observes Haller, “because this exercise was not among the number of those in which the ancients de- lighted.” It is towards the end of the period of which we are now speaking, that Bacon’s treatise, “ Ilistoria Vitce et Mortis,” must be placed. The object of this work is to discover the causes of natural death, and by that means to find out those of prolonging, as much as possible, the ordinary term of human life. The living man is continually losing, and continually repairing the loss he sustains—that is, the constituent parts of the living body are continually on the decay, and a variety of causes are incessantly carry- ing them off; several of its organs are constantly engaged in separating humours, which pass off loaded with a part of its substance, consumed by the united action of air and caloric; while internal friction, by a pulsatory motion, detaches its particles. In this manner the animal machine is con- tinually being destroyed; and, perhaps, at distant periods of life, it does not contain a single particle of the same constituent parts* *. But this reparative faculty becomes exhausted, and man dies. To diminish the activity of the causes which dissipate, attenuate, and destroy; to maintain the faculty which repairs, to soften and render pliable the parts whose inclination is opposed to the effects of the reparative faculty, would be the means of prolonging human life as much as the organisation of our bodies would permit. It was on these simple ideas that the illustrious Bacon established plans of investigation worthy of reflection, and which may still, in our time, furnish great and important subjects for meditation. Bacon, in the greater part of the subjects which he has handled, lias rarely put his pen to the work, where he has not always shewed extensive views, plang, or research, fertile in consequences, a great divestment of prejudices, and ideas accredited by habit, a continual call to experience, and a constant applica- Hippocrates, Solander, Cato, and others, but it is supported by the common observation and experience of mankind. * Speaking of Hippocrates, Galen informs us that the whole constitution of the body may be changed by diet; that we should use those kinds of meats which are best suited to our own particular bodies, age, temperature, distemperature, and complexion; or, in plainer language, that every man ought to adopt his aliment i to his own particular constitution. c