49 BR BR place of both meat and drink; though bread ought invariably to be consum- ed with them, unless taken in very minute quantities at a time. Light broths agree with weak stomachs; and mutton is reckoned the best in- gredient on these occasions, though if taken in any quantity, without the addition of solid food, they are apt to lie heavy. A small quantity of solid aliment sometimes agrees bet- ter. The idea of broths diluting the gastric juice too much, is a physiolo- gical error which needs no refutation. The gastric juice is only secreted as required, and the less stimulating the food the smaller portion of it becomes necessary. Bland and easily digesti- ble substances, and mild liquids, stand in need of the least aid to assimilate them: it would be preposterous to suppose, that a greater quantity of gastric juice is present at all times than there is a demand for it. And if a liquid, holding nutritive matter in solution, be introduced into the stomach, it is either coagulated by the gastric juice, or its watery part is absorbed, and the solid matter de- posited; in both cases the changes which they undergo are determined by the nature of their compositions— the one is absorbed and the other chymified; since it may be con- cluded that the solid form is an in- '■ dispensable condition of bodies which i are destined to undergo the processes ’ of both chymification and their sub- sequent conversion into chyle; for, unless some provision had existed for the removal of the watery fluid I from the stomach, the digestive func- : tions could not have been properly 1 performed. In making soups, broths, or gra- | vies, the cook should pay particular f attention to his pots, saucepans, and covers, and see they be very clean, and free from all sand and grease, and at the same time properly tinned; as : if this particular be not cautiously attended to, the soups, gravies, and broths will acquire a bad taste, as well as prove deleterious to the health and constitution of many. When you make any kind of soup, particularly vermicellis, portable, or brown gravy soups, or any other soups that have herbs or roots in them, be sure to lay the meat at the bottom of the pan, with a large piece of butter; then cut the roots and small herbs, and having laid them over the meat, cover the pot or saucepan closely, and keep it over a slow fire, which will draw all the virtue out of the vegetables, turn them to a goodgravy, and give the soup a very different flavour to what it would have by acting in any other manner. If your gravy should be almost dried up, re- plenish it with water, and when it begins to boil take off the fat, and follow the directions laid down for the particular kind of soup or broth, which - are copiously laid down in every Cookery book. Soft water will answer the purpose better, in making old pease-soup; but when soup is to be made of green pease, hard water must then be used, as it will preserve the colour of the pease better. In the prepai-ation of white-soup, remember never to put in your cream till you take your soup off the fire, and the last thing you do must be the dish- ing of your soups. Gravy-soup will have a skim over it by standing; and from the same cause pease-soup will often settle and look thin at the top. Lastly, let the ingredients of your soups and broths be so properly pro- portioned that they may not taste of one thing more than another, but that the taste be equal, and the whole of a fine and agreeable relish. Should you be apprehensive that gravy-meat may be spoiled before it be wanted, season it well, and give it a slight frying, which will preserve it some days longer; though the gravy is best when the juices are fresh. When gravies or soups are to be put by for occasional use, they should be daily shifted into fresh scalded pans. Any thing in which vegetables have been