TE TE 329 but is also used in some provinces in China. The common people who have a coarser tea boil it for some time in water, and make use of the liquor for common drink early in the morning; the kettle filled with water is regularly hung over the fire for this purpose, and the tea is either put into the kettle inclosed in a bag, or by means of a basket of proper size pressed to the bottom of the vessel, that there may be no hindrance in drawing off the water. The Bants- jaa tea only is used in this manner, whose virtues being more fixed, would not be fully extracted by infusion. The Chinese are always taking tea, especially at meals, it is the chief treat wherewith they regale their friends; the most moderate take it at least three times a day, others ten times or more, and yet it is computed the consumption of tea among the English and Dutch is as great in proportion as among the orientals. As regards the properties of tea they are strongly controverted ; the East- ern nations are at least as much pos- sessed with an idea of their extraor- dinary virtues as the Europeans, but it is perhaps because imagination bears as great a sway there as here. The reason why the gout and stone are unknown in China is ascribed to the use of this plant. Tea is extolled as the greatest of all medicines: ’moderately and pro- perly taken, it acts - as a gentle astringent and corroborative; it strengthens the stomach and bowels, and is good against nauseas, indi- gestions, and diarrhoeas. It acts also as a diuretic, and a diaphoretic; the immoderate use of it, however, has been very prejudicial to many, who have been thereby thrown into dia- betes. From the contradictory opi- nions, even of medical writers, on teas, the natural inference seems to be, that they possess neither noxious nor beneficial powers, in any very considerable degree. They seem, when moderately used, to be for the most part innocent; in some cases they seem to be salutary—in others they are apparently prejudicial: they dilute thick juices, and quench thirst more effectually, and pass off by the natural emunctories more freely than more watery fluids; they refresh the spirits in heaviness and sleepiness, and seem to counteract the operation of inebriating liquors. From their manifest astringency, they have been supposed to strengthen and brace up the solids, but this effect experience does not coun tenance, as it is in disorders, and in constitutions wherein corrobo- rants are more serviceable, that the immoderate use of tea is peculiarly hurtful; in cold, indolent habits, cachexies, chlorosis, dropsies, and debilities of the nervous system. Dr. Lettsom has particularly in- quired into the medical qualities and effects of tea, and having observed that infusions of bohea and green tea contribute to preserve sweet some small pieces of beef immersed in them, he infers that they possess an antiseptic power when applied to the dead animal fibre, and from their striking a purple colour with salt of iron, he deduces their astringent quality. From other experiments, he concludes that the activity of tea chiefly resides in its fragrant and volatile parts, and that if the use of it be beneficial or injurious to any particular constitution, it becomes so principally by means of this odorous fragrant principle. He apprehends that it is the safest course to use the infusion of the more ordinary kinds of this plant, which abound less with this fragrant principle; or the tea may be boiled a few minutes in order to dissipate this volatile part, which stands charged as the cause of those nervous affections that are said to be produced or aggravated by the use of this liquor. By this process may likewise be extracted more copiously the more fixed, bitter, and stomachic parts of this vegetable. Dr. Lettsom, 2 f 2