xxi INTRODUCTION. It has been remarked, that medicine is an uncertain, fluctuating, and precarious art. One doctrine, for instance, considers the mass of fluids as the primary cause of all diseases; another ascribes them to the irregular action of the solids—others again consider that as the cause of the disorder, which many are inclined to represent as the effect. Thus different schools promul- gate different tenets relative to the origin of diseases; though ultimately, with respect to matters of fact, they must all necessarily agree. Nor is this diversity of opinion in the least degree detrimental to the practical depart- ment of medicine, provided the mode of treatment be not regulated by hypothetical notions. It is sufficient security to the patient, if his physician be thoroughly acquainted with the symptoms of the disease, and able to distinguish them from those of any other malady. In this respect the medical art is truly excellent, and stands unrivalled—for the nature of diseases remains invariably the same. The accurate observations made by Hippocrates two thousand years ago, on the symptoms and progress of diseases, recur to the medical practitioner of the present day, in a manner sufficiently regular and uniform: nor should it be otherwise, when nature is invariably pursuing the same course, whether in a healthy or in a diseased action of the body. Man is subject to the same destructive agents from without by which the lower animals are affected, and for a variety of reasons he is more frequently exposed to diseases and pain than these. The inferior creatures, in the first place, are unquestionably provided with a more active instinct, by which nature teaches them, from their very, birth, to avoid every thing that may prove hurtful, and to choose whatever may have a salutary influence on their existence. Few traces of this beneficial instinct can be discovered in the human race. Our own experience, or the instructions of others, which are likewise founded on experience, must gradually teach us the wholesome or pernicious qualities of the objects of the material world. Reason, indeed, that peculiar faculty of man, compensates in a great measure for the want of this instinct, as it directs his choice in pursuing what is useful, and in avoiding what is injurious; yet, at the same time, the want of instinct in man is the source of many sufferings in the earlier years of his life. He is born without covering, to withstand the effects of climate; without the means of defending himself in his helpless state ; and without instinct, if we except that of sucking. He remains much longer incapable of providing for his own preservation, and stands in need of the assistance of his parents for a much greater number of years, than any other animal with which we are acquainted. Again, mankind in large and populous towns, it is universally admitted, have much degenerated in bodily strength, energy of mind, and in their capacity of resisting the noxious agency of powers which affect them from without. The progressive cultivation of the mind, together with the daily refinements of habits and manners, are ever accompanied with a pro-