173 HU HU classification, they evidently belong to a common family, and should be contemplated in a concentrated point of view. The species that properly appertain to it are the following:— Appetite Depraved, Flatulency, Heart-burn,* Indigestion,* Fasting, Long, Sickness, Vomiting, Voracity—See Gluttony, Water-brash. Appetite for improper and indi- gestible substances. In tliis species there is no want of appetite, but often indeed an inordinate craving. Instead, however, of its directing the patient to palatable and substantial food, whenever such can be obtained, it urges him in preference to the most whimsical and unnutritious materials. An appetite for improper and in- digestible substances may be of two kinds. It may proceed from a want of discrimination, as in infants or idiots; or it may proceed from a corrupt taste or indulgence, often founded on empirical or other dan- gerous advice, as the eating of chalk or acids, to produce a clear skin. The depraved appetite in child can only be the result of improper ma- nagement and attention; since nothing is more tractable than the organ of taste in early life. And hence it is, that different nations of the world are brought by habit, almost coeval with their birth, to give the preference to such kinds of food as in their respective climes produce in greatest abundance, or as they obtain by an easy barter of indigenous substances. For example, the Hindoos live entirely on fruits and grain. The Tonguses on ber- ries, the refuse lichen found undi- gested in the stomach of the rein- deer, dried fishes, and beasts of prey. * See these articles. The Californians, on snakes, rats, lizards, rabbits, &c. intermixed with the wild herbs of the soil. But there is, perhaps, no stronger proof of the force of habit in forming an acquired taste, to be met with in any part of the world, than in our own country, in the exchange of the natural and instinctive of a bland and sweet fluid, as milk, for the bitter drink of tea for breakfast, and beer for dinner. A longing for improper food and indigestible substances, is, however, produced by other means, and oc- curs in persons who are possessed of a sound judgment. It is not unfre- quently traced as a symptom of some other disorder, as pregnancy, green- sickness, and perhaps some species of mental disorder. But it some- times exists as a primary disease, and is then most commonly brought on by a vain desire of improving personal appearance. Whatever the cause, when this morbid propensity has once obtained the ascendancy over the natural taste, the substances for which it excites a desire are often of the most indigestible and disgust- ing quality. For instance, we have examples of dirt-eaters devouring cin- ders, odure, fire, spiders, lice, toads, serpents, leeches, bits of wood, squills, hair, candles, and many other spe- cies of filth. Mr. John Hunter de- scribes a longing for diet, in the form of clay or loam, to have been an endemic among the blacks in Jamaica. But he is surpassed by Darwin, who informs us that he once saw a young lady, about ten years of age, that had filled her sto- mach with earth out of a flower-pot, after which she vomited it up, with small stones, bits of wood, intermixed with wings of insects.—Zoonomia, el. III. 1, 2. 19. Other individuals have had a taste for harder substances, and have re- galed themselves with stones, glass, leaden bullets; and there is not a country in Europe but has supplied examples of distinguished knife- Q 3