21 AR AR 0 of brandy and other spirits ; but it < is thought to be more heady, and does not agree so well with the 1 stomach. Mock Arack may be made as follows:—Dissolve two scruples of flowers of benjamin in a quart of i good rum, and it immediately gives it the inviting fragrance of “ Vaux- hall Nectar.”—Cook’s Oracle. ARDENT SPIRITS.—Spirits in a state of purity. The various degrees of strength of spirits was technically denominated by numbers, referring to an arbitrary strength, called in the English laws, Proof Spirit, a gallon of which weighs seven pounds, eleven ounces, three drachms, avoirdupois. When spirit is said to be one to three over proof, it is meant that one gallon of water added to three gal- lons of the spirit will reduce it to proof; and on the contrary, one in three under proof signifies, that in three gallons of that spirit there is . contained one gallon of water, and £ the remaining two gallons are proof spirit. As a gallon of water weighs by law, eight pounds, seven ounces, five drachms, avoirdupois, the specific gravity of proof spirit is to that of water as 910 to 1000. Of late, by a new regulation of the excise laws, the use of a hydrometer is intro- duced, which shews the number of i hundred parts of spirit that any li- quor contains above proof, or their deficiency below proof. But, by the use of certain substances, a fictitious i strength is communicated, which it is not in the power of the hydrome- ter, constructed as it is, to detect. In small quantities, ardent spirits are a powerful cordial and corrobo- rant, raising the pulse, strengthening the stomach, promoting digestion, and preventing flatulence. Taken sparingly, and diluted with water, they supply the place of wine, and with some constitutions agree better, as they are not like wine disposed to acidity. The abuse of ardent spirits is productive of the same pernicious effects as those which arise from an excessive indulgence in wine, but in a greater degree. French brandy is the most bracing and stomachic ; gin and rum the most diuretic and sudo- rific. Arack, which is distilled from rice, is more heating than the two last. Whiskey is considered as a lighter spirit than any of the former, from its containing less essential oil; it therefore agrees better with most stomachs. The qualities of all these several sorts of spirits are improved by long keeping.—See Alcohol. Spirit and water do not, it is said, easily combine; and that much of the force of the former is blunted by intimate incorporation with the lat- ter ; and that when spirit is taken in a diluted state, the mixture should always be made twelve hours before it be used. However this may be, we do not concur in the necessity of restricting those who would indulge themselves moderately beyond the time present in the use of diluted spirits. Things may be too finely drawn ; temperance is the best rule, and diluted liquors at all times are evidently more salutary than the spirit in a pure state. The fatal effects of dram-drinking have been vividly depicted by various writers; and the celebrated John Hunter, on dissecting a man who had been much addicted to the use of spirits, found the blood converted into an oily matter. And it has been proved by experiment, that the pernicious ef- fects of ardent spirits upon horses are as great as those produced by giving them various well-known poi- sons. Spirits, nevertheless, may oc- casionally be employed medicinally as a stimulant or as a cordial, while the body has been exposed to the influence of cold and moisture; or under a state of exhaustion and a disposition to fainting; also, in some cases of putrid fever, where wine would not sit on the stomach. It is