74 CO CO be drunk warm, as above directed, within an hour after dinner, it is of singular use to those who have head- ache from weakness in the stomach, contracted by sedentary habits, close attention, or accidental drunkenness. It is of service when the digestion is weak; and persons afflicted with the sick head-ache are much benefited by its use in some instances: though this effect is by no means uniform. Dr. Mosely observes, that, “ the extraordinary influence which coffee, judiciously prepared, imparts to the stomach, from its tonic and invigo- rating qualities, is strongly exem- plified by the immediate effect pro- duced on taking it when the stomach is overloaded with food, or nauseated with surfeit, or debilitated by intem- perance. To constitutionally weak stomachs, it affords a pleasing sen- sation ; it accelerates the process of digestion, corrects crudities, and re- moves colics and flatulences. Be- sides its effect in keeping up the har- mony of the gastric powers, it dif- fuses a genial warmth, that cherishes the animal' spirits, and takes away the listlessness and langour which so greatly embitter the hours of ner- vous people, after any deviation to excess, fatigue, or irregularity. “ From the warmth and efficacy of coffee, in attenuating the viscid fluids, and increasing the vigour of the circulation, it has been used with great success in the debilitating dis- orders of women, in dropsy, and in worm complaints, and in those co- matose, anasarcous, and such other diseases that arise from unwhole- some food, want of exercise, weak fibres, and obstructed perspiration. There are few people who are not informed of its utility for the head- ache. The steam is sometimes very useful to mitigate the pains of the head. In the West Indies, where the more violent species of head-ache are more frequent, and more severe than in Europe, coffee is the only medi- cine that a fiords relief. Opiates are sometimes used, but coffee has an advantage that opium does not pos- sess : it may be taken in all condi- tions of the stomach, and at all times by women, who are most subject to these complaints, as it dissipates those congestions and obstructions that are frequently the cause of the disease, and which opium is known to increase, when its temporary re- lief is past. Coffee having the ad- mirable property of promoting per- spiration, it allays thirst, and checks preternatural heat. The great use of coffee, in France, is supposed to have abated the prevalency of the gravel. In the French colonies, where coffee is more used than with the English, as well as in Turkey, where it is the principal beverage, not only the gra- vel, but the gout, those inveterate tormentors of the human race, are scarcely known. It has been found useful in quieting the tickling vexa- tious cough, that often accompanies the small-pox, and other eruptive fevers.” Prepared clear and strong, and diluted with a large portion of boiled milk, it becomes a highly nu- tritious and balsamic diet; proper in hectic, pulmonic, and all complaints where a milk diet is useful; and is a great restorative to constitutions emaciated and worn down by gout and other chronic disorders. Long watching and intense study are won- derfully supported by it, and with- out the ill consequences that suc- ceed the suspension’of rest and sleep, when the nervous influence has no- thing to sustain it.* Bacon says, “ Coffee comforts the head and heart, and helps diges- tion.” Dr. Willis says, “ Being daily drunk, it wonderfully clears and en- lightens each part of the soul, and disperses all the clouds of every function.” The celebrated Dr. Har- vey used it often; Voltaire lived almost upon it; and the learned and * Practical Treatise on Diet and Re- gimen, p. 276. 4