390 WA WA quantity of corrupted Water.—When it is intended to purify any given quantity of corrupted water, we should begin, by adding to it as much powder of charcoal as is ne- cessary to deprive it entirely of its had smell; and in order to ascertain whether the quantity added be suffi- cient to clarify the said water, a small quantity of it may be passed through a linen bag, two or three inches long: if the water thus fil- tered has still a turbid appearance, a fresh quantity of powdered charcoal must be added, until it becomes per- fectly clear. The whole of the water may thus be passed through a filtering bag, the size of which should be pro- portioned to the quantity of water. If vitriolic, or any other acid can be procured, a small quantity of it should be added to the water before the charcoal powder is used, the quantity of acid being regulated in proportion to the state of putridity in which the water is actually found, and which should be added in quan- tity sufficient to communicate to the water a degree of acidity just percept- ible to the taste. If the water be merely intended for dressing meat and vegetables for the ship’s company, instead of acid, such a quantity of sea salt as would have been proper for seasoning the above articles may be employed. Saline substances, like acids, hasten the effects of the charcoal powder. By making use of acids (as has already been observed) a much less quantity of powdered charcoal is ne- cessary; and so easy is the process to any one accustomed to operations of this kind, that four or five minutes only are required to render several gallons of putrid water fit to drink. In like manner, to improve the taste of those spring waters which natu- rally have an hepatic flavour, and are therefore unpleasant to use, no- thing more is necessary than to filter them through a bag, half filled with powdered charcoal. If such waters are not very much loaded with mucilaginous particles, the ad- dition of an acid is not necessary. Method of preserving Charcoal on Board of Ships.—Powdered charcoal is a very light substance, a quality which, perhaps, may appear embar- rassing, on account of the room it will take up in a ship, supposing the quantity of it to be in proportion to the quantity of water taken on board. The following is the result of Mr. Lowitz’s experiments, relative to the space required for storing charcoal. First: four ounces and a half of powdered charcoal, a quantity which is sufficient to purify three pints and a half of water, when no acid is made use of, take up as much space as sixteen ounces of water; but if this powder be strongly compressed, it will take up only the space of nine ounces of water; consequently, it would require two casks of powdered charcoal to purify eleven casks of water. Secondly, an ounce and a half of powdered charcoal is suffi- cient to purify three pints and a half of water, provided a small quantity of vitriolic acid, or sea salt, is at the same time made Use of. One cask of powdered charcoal, therefore, if tightly packed, is sufficient for seven- teen casks of water. In another experiment made on this subject, it was found that six drachms of powdered charcoal were sufficient to deprive three pints of water of its bad smell, and to render it perfectly clear, provided, at the same time, twenty-four drops of vi- triolic acid were added. In this way, therefore, one cask of powdered char- coal would be sufficient for thirty- four casks of corrupted water. These experiments, however, must be con- sidered as liable to some variation, for, in order to obtain effects equal to those related, the charcoal powder must be prepared with the greatest care. It must also be observed, that though the above small quantity was found sufficient to deprive the water