111 EG EG upwards and downwards, some re- markable examples of which are given by Gesner, lib. C, de Ani- malibus. The meat of the eel-powt is white and well tasted,* it varies in size from two or three pounds to seven or eight, and in summer time agrees with all ages and constitutions. EGGS.—It is probable that the eggs of all birds might be employed as food; but custom and convenience have given the preference to those of the common hen, the guinea hen, and the duck. The fluid contents of an egg con- sist of the white and the yolk. The former very much resembles the lymph of the blood, or the coagu- lable part of milk; the latter is an animal mucilage, composed of oil, coagulable lymph, and water, so as to form an emulsion. The oil is se- parable from the yolk when boiled till it becomes hard, by means of pressure. The eggs of all grani- vorous birds, and especially of the domestic fowl, yield a mild, demul- cent and strengthening aliment, well suited to consumptive persons, and such as are exhausted by immediate evacuations. Both the white and yolk of an egg are very indigestible when boiled to hardness. Eggs should be subjected as little as pos- sible to the art of cookery. The lightest as well as the simplest means of preparing them for the table is to boil tliem only as long as is neces- sary to coagulate slightly the greater part of the white, without depriving the yolk of its fluidity. This is what is called poaching them, and in this way they sit well on the stomach, If they be put into briskly boiling water, one minute by a stop-watch will be sufficient to do them in this manner. EGGS, Medicinal Properties of.—Raw eggs are gently laxative, and are found to be serviceable in jaundice and obstructions of the liver. A nutritive restorative drink is pre- pared by rubbing the yolks of two or three eggs, and a little white su- gar, with a pint or two of cold water, adding to it afterwards a glass of Rhenish or other light wine, and a little lemon juice to give it a flavour. This egg emulsion, without the wine, is a good remedy for coughs, hoarse- ness, spitting of blood, costiveness, &c. Eggs, in whatever state, have the peculiar quality of singularly af- fecting some stomachs, even in the smallest quantity; while on others they do not produce the least un- easy sensation. EGGS, To Choose.—To judge properly of an egg, put the greater end to your tongue, and if it feel warm it is fresh; but if cold, it may be pronounced stale; and according to the degree of heat or cold there is in the egg, you will thus be enabled to judge of their state of staleness or freshness. Another method is, to hold it up against the sun, or a candle, and if the yolk appear round, and the white clear or fair, it is a sign of goodness; but if the yolk be broken, and the white thick or cloudy, the egg is a bad one. Some people, in order to try the quality of an egg, put it into a pan of cold water; when the fresher it is, the sooner it will sink to the bottom; but if it be addled, or rotten, it will swim on the surface. EGGS, To Preserve.—The best method of preserving eggs is to keep them in meal or bran; though some place them in wood-ashes, with their small end downwards. When neces- sity obliges you to keep them for any length of time, the best way is to grease them over with a little hog’s lard, and afterwards to bury them in salt, a method which will preserve them in any climate; but the sooner an egg is used, the more wholesome it will be found. Eggs are an indispensable article in cookery. They are used for a prodigious number of entrees, entre- mets, and sauces. They are the basis of all pastry, as -well as creams. The