15 AN AN found it an excellent purge.—lire's Chem. Diet. Ambergris being retailed at so high a price as a guinea per ounce, leads to many adulterations, con- sisting of various mixtures of ben- zoin, labdanum, meal, &c. scented with musk. The greasy appearance and smell which heated ambergris exhibits afford good estimates, joined to its solubility in hot ether and alco- hol. An alcoholic solution of am- bergris, added in minute quantity to lavender water, tooth powder, wash balls, &c. communicates its peculiar fragrance. The medical properties (at least those ascribed to it) of Am- bergris are stomachic, cordial, and antispasmodic. It is rarely used in this country. AMBREINE.—A fatty substance obtained from ambergris, somewhat resembling chlorestine and adipocire. AMBULATION.—Pedestrian ex- ercise, or walking; the best for pre- serving health, and without a proper quantity of which health deteriorates. AMIDINE.—A substance pro- duced, according to Saussure, when the paste of starch is abandoned to itself, at the ordinary temperature, with or without the contact of air. See Starch. AMNIOTIC ACID.—A peculiar acid said to be found in the liquor of the amnios of the cow. AMPHIBIOUS.—Having the power of living both in air and watei\ ANCHOVIES.—The anchovy is a small sea-fish, much used by way of sauce or seasoning. It is caught in the months of May, June, and July, in the Mediterranean, on the coasts of Catalonia in Spain, and the pro- vince of Provence, now forming the department of Vars and Lower Alps, and the mouth of the Rhone, in France; and particularly near the small island of Gorgona, in the Tus- can Sea, adjacent to Leghorn. The following are the directions given to make sprats flavour like anchovies. After having well salted your sprats, let the salt drain from them; wipe them dry in the course of twenty-four hours, but do not wash them. Mix four ounces of common salt, an ounce of bay salt, an ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce of sal prunella, and half a tea-spoonful of cochineal, and reduce the whole to a fine powder. Let these be sprinkled among three quarts of the fish, and pack them in two stone jars. Keep them in a cold place, and cover them down with a bladder. These eat well on bread and butter, and will be found an excellent substitute for the genuine article. ANCHOVIES, ESSENCE OF.— Take anchovies two pounds to four pounds and a half, pulp through a fine hair sieve, boil the bones with common salt, seven ounces in water six pints; strain, add flour seven ounces, and the pulp of the fish; boil, and pass the whole through a sieve; colour with bole to your fancy. These should produce one gallon. 2. Anchovies, five double barrels ; bay salt, twenty-one pounds; brown salt, seven pounds; starch powder, three pounds; powdered bole, one pound; Cayenne pepper, eight ounces ; water, twenty gallons — produces forty-two dozen and six pots.. 3. Use pilchard sprats, which are richer than herring sprats; or her- ring liquor, from the white or pickled herrings. In the selection of anchovies those are to be taken that are in the same state in which they came over in, not such as have been put to fresh pickle, mixed with red paint, which some add to improve the complexion of the fish. It has been said that others have a trick of putting an- chovy liquor on pickled sprats; this may be easily discovered by washing one of them, and tasting the flesh of it, which in the fine anchovy is mel- low, red, and high-flavoured, and the bone moist and oily. The fresher it