30 BE BE be employed with advantage as a medicine, in weakly and emaciated habits, where port wine cannot be obtained. The greater or less addi- tion of hops to the malt, furnishes us with a bitter or a sweet beer. The former kind is preferable as a medi- cine ; the latter is more used as a common beverage; but it is apt to ex- cite flatulency and diarrhoea. Hops, like other bitter substances—(See Hops), preserve beer in its vinous state, strengthen the stomach, and dissolve viscid phlegm. Beer made of a great proportion of hops, and a small quantity of malt, is a good be- verage, and well calculated to allay thirst.—See Ale. There are great varieties in beer, according to the degrees of fermen- tation ; some kinds, such as those made of oats, in parts of Germany, which are scarcely allowed to fer- ment at all—(See Mum), are very cooling in summer, but soon spoil; others are only half fermented, such as the Dantzic spruce or black beer; others again to a sufficient degree, as our porter and ale; and, lastly, some are more than sufficiently fermented, such as Burton ale, and most of the strong home-brewed ales. All these are different in their effects, accord- ing to the various degrees of fermen- tation. Every kind of beer is in- clined to ferment, on account of its constituent parts. If it be not pro- perly fermented, this process takes place in the stomach; the fixed air, being disengaged within the body, distends the stomach and bowels, and occasions flatulency and looseness. But, when used in small quantities, it is not attended with any great in- convenience, particularly in summer and in hot climates. It is taken with great advantage at sea, against that enemy of the mariner, the scurvy.— Persons who have scorbutic gums, that are painful and bleed on the least touch, ought to drink half a pint of wort, or unfermented beer, every morning and evening, retain- ing the liquor for a good while in the mouth. Much benefit may be anticipated from this simple remedy. Many consider beer or porter as excellent when it foams much, and makes what is termed the “ cauli- flower head ” on the top of the vessel. But this froth, now-a-days, is by no means to be looked upon as an un- equivocal test of quality, but rather of its imperfect fermentation, too often artificially increased by the addition of improper ingredients, as sulphate of iron, oil of vitriol, alum, &c. The volatile vapour or gas dis- engaged from such beer in the sto- mach and bowels, produces a quantity of stimulating and contracting air, by which the alimentary canal is almost at the same time expanded and asti'inged, so that the most dan- gerous spasms and colicks may be the consequence. Such beer likewise gives out a quantity of sulphureous vapours; and for this reason it is often hazardous to go into cellars where it is kept in a state of fer- mentation. A candle will often be extinguished by the vapour of such cellars, which is sometimes so noxi- ous as to suffocate persons on their entrance. If bottles, filled with beer, ale, or porter, are not soon enough corked, it turns flat or sour, acquires an un- pleasant taste, and produces flatu- lency, colicks, and spasms. But if bottling and corking are done in proper time, the fixed air is not dis- sipated ; its agreeably pungent taste is preserved; and it is then a very excellent and nourishing liquor, which quenches thirst, and does not, like wine, affect digestion. A per- son who has a good appetite, and takes nourishing food, requires no beer for its digestion, but by drink- ing it be is exposed to plethora, or a full habit, and all its concomitant complaints. Those, on the con- trary, who take a great proportion of vegetable food, and have a weak stomach, will find a strong and bit-