OR 22G OS used, by very hot, irritable, and cho- leric constitutions. Although these •roots are eaten abundantly by whole nations, yet, from their penetrating and volatile smell, which they com- municate to the human breath, it is certain they agree best with indivi- duals of a cold and phlegmatic habit, and those whose stomachs require so powerful a stimulus. The workmen, to the number of 100,000, according to Herodotus, employed for thirty years in build- ing the pyramids of Egypt, expended 1600 talents of silver in radishes, leeks, onions, and garlick, a sum amounting, according to different calculations, to about 400,000Z. The Hebrews, in the wilderness, com- plained that manna grew insipid to them ; they longed for the leeks and onions of Egypt. Travellers assure us that in Greece and Africa raw onions are excellent. Pliny re- proaches the Egyptians with swear- ing by the leeks and onions of then- gardens; and Juvenal ridicules that superstitious people, who did not dare to eat leeks, garlick, or onions, for fear of injuring their gods. ’T is mortal sin an onion to devour ! Each clove of garlick is a heavenly pow’r: O holy nations, and O sacred clods. Where ev’ry fruitful orchard teems with gods. Sat. xiii. Garlick is nearly entirely super- seded in England, such is the aver- sion taken to it; though occasionally a dish is rubbed with a clove to give it a flavour. The slialot, or rocam- bole, usually supply its place. It must, however, be left to the un- prejudiced epicure to say which he would prefer. Indeed, it is acknow- ledged, notwithstanding the rooted aversion to this condiment, that gar- lick, *of all our plants, has the great- est strength, affords most nourish- ment, and supplies most spirits to those who eat little flesh. It seems to have been a considerable article of food in ancient times; and with our Continental neighbours is far from having grown into desuetude. The slender green tops of leeks and chives enter well into compound salads; and are among our best pot- herbs.—See Garliclc, Leelcs, $c. ORACH. — Similar to blite, and not much differing in virtues, though rather inferior. They are aperient; and rather hurt than assist digestion, unless the constitution be strong, cold, dry, or choleric. ORANGE.—The fruit of a tree of the same name. Those in com- mon use with us are the Seville and China oranges. The flowers of the Seville orange are highly odoriferous, and very justly esteemed one of the finest perfumes. The outer rind is an excellent carminative, and tonic to the intestines. The essential oil is stimulant, but does not agree with the stomach. The tincture of orange- peel is an useful preparation. So is the following. Take— Of Seville orange-peel, 3 drachms. Fresh lemon-peel . 2 drachms. Ginger, the root . . ^ drachm. Barley water . . . £ pint. Macerate for two hours. Then Take— Of the strained liquor, 1 j ounce. Spirit of peppermint, i Tincture of lavender, C j- drachm, each . . . . ) Make a draught to be taken twice a day,—in windy colic, or habitual fla- tulency, &c. The juice of Seville and China oranges is a pleasant acid, and of great use in inflamma- tory and putrid disorders, both acute and chronic; it is an useful refrige- rent in inflammatory diseases, and an excellent antiseptic in scorbutic and putrid complaints. When Com- modore Anson sailed round the world, his men were surprisingly recovered from the scurvy by the oranges which they found at the island of Tinian, one of the Ladrone islands in Asia. The sweet or China orange was first brought into Europe by the Portuguese; and it is asserted that the identical tree, whence all