38 BO EL creating an appetite, and giving a degree of energy to the relaxed mus- cular fibre. Take— 1. Gentian root . . jounce. Peruvian bark . 1 ounce. Orange peel, dried 2 drachms. Cinnamon . . 1 drachm. These are enough for two bottles of white wine, in which they should he left to macerate for fourteen days. Take— 2. Gentian root . . 2 ounces. Orange peel, dried 1 ounce. Smaller cardamoms | ounce. For a quart of brandy; treated as above. Take— 3. Gentian root . . 1 \ ounce. Orange peel, dried 2 drachms. Fresh lemon peel J ounce. For a pint and a half of boiling water. Let the infusion cool, then strain, and add a pint of brandy. In the morning or forenoon a wine glassful will be found a grateful so- lace to a stomach debilitated from excess of any kind. BITTER BALLS.—Used by the brewers to supply the deficiency of the hop; composed as follows:— Gentian root, 8lbs.; extract of gen- tian, 41bs.; treacle, q. s. rolled up in balls. BITTERN.—A composition con- taining—extract of cocculus indicus; extract of quassia; Spanish liquorice; calcined sulphate of iron (green cop- peras, called also salt of steel). Sold in large casks to brewers, who send it out to the licensed victuallers as “finings;” an ingredient by which they not only fine their beer, to the prejudice of the public health, but very frequently, and justly so, get fined themselves for it.—See Cocculus Indicus; Sulphate of Iron, Sfc. BLACKBIRDS.—The blackbird has many things in common with the thrush; still they are neither so common nor so easy of digestion ; they may, however, be reckoned among those foods that produce a good juice. A blackbird intended tor the table, ought to be young, tender, and well fed. In this con- dition it produces good juice, is nou- rishing enough, and easily digested. It produces no ill effects unless eaten to excess. The older they grow and the less fat they are, deteriorates their qualities. It agrees at all times, with any age and constitution. BLACK EXTRACT. HardMul- tum.—Made from cocculus indicus, by decoction in water, and evapora- tion, to a stiff tenacious mass: its properties are narcotic, intoxicating, and deleterious : principally used by ale brewers. ELITE.—Commonly called Eng- lish mercury, or all-good. The ten- der tops may be eaten as asparagus. BLOOD.—The blood of animals procures but a coarse and indifferent nourishment: the blood of some ani- mals, however, is better than that of others. The blood of an ox or cow is used in making sausages and black- puddings ; yet in most places it is en- tirely rejected. Hogs’ blood is now in greatest request, as being the sweetest and most palatable. Some fat of the same beast mixed with the puddings made of it, into which salt, pepper, and sweet herbs are intro- duced, greatly correct and improve it. BOILING.—The process of rais- ing the temperature of water, by means of fire and fuel, to 212^ of Fahrenheit’s thermometer. In boiling any kind of meat, but particularly veal, much care and nicety are requisite. Fill the pot with a sufficient quantity of soft water, dust your veal well with .fine flour, put it into the pot destined for its reception, and set it over a large fire. It is the custom of some people to put in milk to make it white; hut this is of little use, and perhaps had better be omitted, for if you use hard water it will curdle the milk, give to the veal a brownish- yellow cast, and will often hang in lumps about it. Oatmeal will do the