BR BR 48 BROILING.—The process of pre- paring animal food upon a gridiron. In this process, as in that connected with every other branch of the culi- nary art, cleanliness and care arc equally important and indispensable. The gridiron must be kept quite clean between the bars, and bright on the top ; before it is used the bars ought to be rubbed with clean mutton, to prevent the meat from being marked with them. Before the meat is laid on, be careful that the lire is very clear. Turn the meat quickly while it is broiling, and have ready a dish placed in a cliaffing-dish of hot coals, and put the meat in as fast as it is got ready, and carry it hot and covered to table; observe never to baste any thing on the gridiron, because that may be the means of burning it, and occasioning it to smoke. ‘‘ And now as there is nought on the fire that is spoiling, We’ll just give you two or three hints upon broiling; How oft’ you must turn a beefsteak, and how seldom A good mutton chop, for to have ’em both well done; And for skill in such cookery your credit't will fetch up, If your broils are well seasoned with good mushroom ketchup.” 1. To broil Beef Stealcs.—The best steaks are those cut of!'the rump, and they should not be more than half an inch in thickness. When well cooked, steaks are a favourite and frequent dish, and have a most in- viting appearance. Let there be a clear fire, and rub the gridiron with * “The rarish ways of dressing all manner of roast meats, either flesh or fowl, by sea and land, and diveis ways of breading or dredging meats, to pre- vent the gravy from too much evaporat- ing.”—illay's Accomplished Cook. Lon- don, 1665, p. 136. beef suet; when the gridiron is hot, lay on your steaks, and let them broil till they begin to look brown; then turn them, first dropping any gravy, that may have oozed out on the upper side, into the warm dish on which you intend to serve them, and when the other side is brown, lay them on the same dish, with a slice of butter between each steak, and sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them. Let them stand two or three minutes, and, in the mean time, slice a shalot as thin as possible into a spoonful of water; lay your steaks- again on the gridiron, and keep turn- ing them till they are done enough; then dish them, and pour the water r and shalot among them, with or with- - out mushroom ketchup, and serve up. 2. To broil Mutton Chops.—Take a loin or neck of mutton, and cut chops from it about half an inch thick, and cut off the skin and part of the fat; the bones should not be long; rub your gridiron with such, as soon as it is hot, and lay on the chops over a clear fire, turn them often, and take care that the fat which keeps - falling from them do not make the fire blaze, and smoke them; put them i into a hot dish as soon as you think : they are done, and rnb a little butter over them, slice a shalot very thin, with a spoonful of water, and pour it over them, with a sufficient quantity of mushroom ketchup. The same rules will apply for pork chops as for mutton, with this differ- ence, that the former requires more broiling than the latter; as soon as they are done, add a little good gravy to them, strew finely-powdered sage over them, which will give them an exquisite flavour. BROTHS.—A decoction of animal and vegetable substances. When properly made, with a requisite pro- portion of animal and vegetable substances, without fat, broths and soups are wholesome and nutritive articles of diet, and may supply the