DR 105 DR that of our solids, and consequently, there must be secreted more fluids than solids. The general rule in this case, though it cannot he accu- rately observed, nor is it applicable in every instance, is to take about double the proportion of liquid to the dry food. There are various cir- cumstances, such as the season of the year, the weather, cold, heat, the nature of our food, &c. which regu- late the quantity of drink at one time more than another. Thirst, however, is as good if not a better guide than hunger, and he who is accustomed to drink water only, will not easily transgress the measure, if he drinks as often as nature calls upon him. With a proper choice of food every one should drink conform- ably to his wants. Hence it is need- less to recommend water as a beve- rage to persons who will not be persuaded to change their irregular modes of eating. The more is eaten, and the differ the food, the more ought to be drunk. The phlegmatic have less inclination to drink than those of a sanguine and choleric temperament. The la- borious ought to drink more than the sedentary, and still more in sum- mer than in winter, to supply what is lost by perspiration. In the morning there is generally an inclination to drink after getting out of bed, which is gratified by tea, coffee, or warm liquors. Water might be a more proper drink at this time, and it might only be disagreeable to those whose stomachs are deranged by the habitual use of warm liquors and hot rolls. A glass of pure fresh water, and a short time after it, a piece of bread with some fruit, or even butter, would afford a very wholesome breakfast, by which the stomach and intestines might be cleared out, the blood and humours refreshed, and the whole body strengthened. If the stomach be not loaded with mucus, or relaxed by tippling, a basin of sweet cows’ milk, with a piece of wholesome stale bread, is an excellent breakfast in spring and summer. To drink much at night, previous to going to bed, is extremely hurt- ful ; or to drink immediately before a meal is improper, because the sto- mach is swelled and rendered less fit for the digestion of food. It is no less objectionable to drink much during meal-time ; as the stomach is thus rendered incapable of receiving the portion of aliment. Cold water, or beer, does not well agree with warm victuals; and the teeth are injured by taking hot and cold sub- stances in immediate succession. In the hot weather of summer, it is scarcely possible to delay drinking till dinner be finished; and it is then the less hurtful, as the bile, which serves to dissolve the victuals, then requires greater dilution. In winter, unless one eat very dry and salted provisions, the inclination to drink is less sensible. But if we must drink in the intervals of eating, it would be most conducive to digestion to drink water only, and in small quan- tities; as pure water, during the time of eating, is more proper, be- cause it agrees with all dishes, with- out exception. A glass or two of wine, nevertheless, during dinner, particularly for the aged and debili- tated, is a proper stimulus, and con- ducive to digestion. Some dietetical writers advise us not to drink without eating some- thing ; but those who only drink when nature requires it, have no oc- casion to eat every time they drink. Persons, on the contrary, who are once accustomed to drink more than is necessary, or to use hot, stimulat- ing, and intoxicating liquors, would do well always to eat some bread or other solid food along with them. Indeed, we ought to begin to drink only after an appetite for food is satisfied, and then it should be done gradually during digestion; the pro- cess of which may be disturbed by