CO 75 CO sedentary of every country liave re- course to it, to refresh the brain op- pressed by study and contemplation. Notwithstanding all the encomia which have been pronounced in fa- vour of coffee, the hostility which has been manifested against tea, has been applied with equal rancour to it, and probably with no less injus- tice ; nor is it to be expected, that it should.be exempted from opponents any more than advocates. Amongst the most furious of the former, was Simon Paulli: but he founded his objections against coffee, as he had his prejudices against tea, cho- colate, and sugar, not on experience, but on anecdotes picked up by hasty travellers, which had no other foun- dation than absurd report and con- jecture : by these tales that learned man confesses he supports a notion that coffee (like tea to the Chinese) acted like a great drier to the Russians, and abated aphrodisiacal warmth. This opinion has been re- ceived, and propagated from him, in the same manner as he received and propagated it from its fabulous ori- gin. These suppositions have been refuted by Du Fours, and many tra- vellers. Sir Thomas Herbert, who was se- veral years in the East, tells us that the Persians have quite a different opinion of coffee. They say that coffee comforts the brain, expels me- lancholy and sleep, purges choler, lightens the spirits, and begets an excellent concoction, and by custom becomes delicious. But all these vir- tues do not conciliate their liking of it, so much as the romantic notion, that it was first invented and brewed by the angel Gabriel, to restore Ma- homet’s decayed moisture, which it did effectually. A substance like coffee, possessed of active principles, and evident operations, must neces- sarily be capable of misapplication and abuse; and there must be parti- cular habits which those operations disturb. Stare says, he used it in too great excess, and it affected his nerves : but Dr. Fothergill, who was a sensible man, and did not use it in too great excess, though he was of a very delicate habit, and could not use tea, drunk coffee almost con- stantly, many years, without receiv- ing any inconvenience from it. But the history of particular cases some- times serves only to prove that man- kind are not all alike organized; and that the sympathy of one, and the antipathy of another, ought by no means to render useless that infinite variety which pervades all nature, and with which the earth is so abun- dantly blessed in the vegetable crea- tion. Were it so, physic would ac- quire but little aid from the toils of philosophy, when philosophy had no other incitement to labour than bar- ren speculation. It has long been a custom with many people among us to add mus- tard to their coffee. Mustard or aro- matics may with great propriety be added in flatulent, languid, and scor- butic constitutions, and particularly by invalids, and in such cases where warmth or stimulus is required. The Eastern nations add either cloves, cinnamon, cummin-seed, or essence of amber, &c. but neither milk nor sugar. Milk and sugar, without the aromatics, are generally used with it in Europe, America, and the West India Islands, except when taken after dinner; then the method of the French is commonly followed, and the milk is omitted. A cup or two thus taken after dinner, without cream or milk, promotes digestion, and has been found very serviceable to those who are habitually costive. If a draught of water be taken before coffee, according to the Eastern cus- tom, it gives it a tendency to act as an aperient. “If,” says Dr. Mosely, “a know- ledge of the principles of coffee, founded on examination and various experiments, added to observations made on the extensive and indiscri-