INTRODUCTION. f Oper. et dier. lib. i. line 17. abandoned the fertile country of Asia, and being destitute of the implements and support of husbandry, lived like the beasts of the field, on the sponta- neous productions of the earth and the woods. This account we are fur- nished with from their own historians, who speak of their earliest ancestors, as if they had been the first generations of the world. Diodorus Siculus writes,* that “ the first inhabitants of the world ranged over the fields and woods in search of food like the beasts, eating every mild herb they could find, and such fruit as the trees produced of their own accord.” ./Elian (Bill. Hist. lib. 3, cap. 39), affirms, that “ the diet of the primeval race differed according to the different products of their lespective countries : the Arcadians having lived on acorns, the Argives on pears, the Athenians on figs.” Plutarch informs us, that the fiist Argives, led by Inachus, searched the woods in quest of wild peas for support.” Among the Roman writers also, Pliny, in his Natural History (lib. 16. in princip.) laments the savage condition of the first ages, “which subsisted on acorns.” And Galen seems to think all these accounts true, for he assures us (De alimenti facult, lib. 2. cap. 28), that “ acorns afford as good nourishment as many sorts of grain,—that in ancient times men lived on acorns only; and that the Arcadians continued to eat them, long after the rest of Greece had made use of bread corn.” This account Galen learned from 'Herodotus, (Clio. cap. 66), who relates, that “upon the death of Lycurgus, the Lacedemonians meditating the conquest of Arcadia, were told by the Oracle that there were many brave acorn-eaters in that country, who would repel them in case they did not desist from carrying their arms thither; as it after- wards happened.” The poets are of the same opinions as the historians, con- cerning the food of the primitive inhabitants of the earth. Hesiod sings f— The fields, as yet untill’d, their fruits afford. And fill a sumptuous and unenvied board.—Cooke. And Ovid, among many others to the same purpose, in the first book of his Metamorphoses— Content with food which nature freely bred. On wildings, and on strawberries they fed; Cornels and bramble-berries gave the rest. And falling acorns furnished out a feast.—Dryden. Those ages, nevertheless, are by some philosophers and poets called the golden ages of the world : but this notion must have arisen either from the * The same author, in his life of Artaxerxes Longimanus, tells us that, much later than the time we speak of, this unwary prince led a great army against the Cadusians, a robust and warlike people, whose inhospitable country produced neither corn nor good fruit, so that the natives were forced to live on peas and apples, which grew wild and spontaneous,