249 PO PO entirely from one cask or butt; and being hearty and nourishing(particu- : lavly at the time it was first retailed, at the Blue Last, in the Curtain-road) it was very suitable for porters, and other working people. Hence it ob- taind the name of porter.—Picture of London, 1S04. Mr. Pennant, speaking of porter (genuine porter it may be presumed) calls it a wholesome liquor, which he says enables the London porter drinkers to undergo tasks that the gin drinkers would sink under. It is, however, a mistaken notion, as Mr. Colquhoun justly observes, that a large quantity of malt liquor supports labourers of every description. After a certain moderate portion is taken, it not only enervates the body, hut stupifies the senses. A coalheaver who drinks from twelve to sixteen pots of porter in the course of the day, would receive more real nou- rishment, and perform his labour with more ease and a greater portion of athletic strength, if only one-third of the quantity were consumed. He would also enjoy much better health, and he fitter for his labour the fol- lowing day. Tire sight of a great London brew- house exhibits a magnificence un- speakable. The breweries form an important national concern, as the duty on malt has produced not less than 1,500,000/. sterling, towards the support of the state; and the exportation of porter forms a con- siderable article of commerce. Of capacious beer casks we have the following account. A few years be- fore the death of Mr. Tlirale, the celebrated brewer and biographer of Dr. Johnson, which happened in 1731, an emulation arose among the brewers to exceed each other in the size of their casks, for keeping beer to a certain age — probably, says Sir John Hawkins, taking the bint from the tun at Heidelberg. The late Mr. Whitbread, it is conjec- tured, had constructed one that would hold some thousand barrels, the thought of which caused some uneasiness to Mr. Thrale, and made him repeat from Plutarch, a saying of Themistocles, “ The trophies of Miltiades hinder my sleeping.” Yet the late Mr. Boswell relates, that Dr. Johnson once mentioned that his friend Thrale had four casks so large that each of them held a thou- sand hogsheads. But Mr. Meux, of Liquorpond-street, can, according to Pennant (Account of London, p. 322, edit. 1793) shew twenty-four vessels, containing in all 35,000 barrels; one of which alone holds 4,500 barrels; and in the year 1790, this enter- prising brewer built another, which cost him 3000/., and contains nearly 12,000 barrels — valued at about 20,000/. A dinner was given to 200 people at the bottom, and 200 more joined the company to drink success to this unrivalled vat.—See Malt Liquors. PORT WINE (vinum Portugalli- cum).—This wine receives its name from being made in the districts ad- jacent to Oporto, or Porto, a rich, handsome, and considerable town in Portugal; and on this account, all red wines that come from Spain, or Portugal, are usually called port wines. The Portuguese wines, when old and genuine, are esteemed to be very friendly to the human consti- tution, and safe to drink; but it is generally supposed, that not half the quantity consumed under the name of port wines, in the British domi- nions only, comes from Oporto. The merchants in this city, have, how- ever, very spacious wine vaults, ca- pable of containing many thousand pipes; and it is said that 20,000 are annually exported from thence.— (See Wine). Negus made of port wine is esteemed one of the most innocent and wholesome species of drink, especially if Seville oranges be added to it, instead of lemons; being drank moderately it possesses several vir- tues in strengthening the stomach;