XXII INTRODUCTION. portionate increase of luxury. But as this change, from a robust to a more relaxed state of life, has been productive of no difference in the causes generating disease, to which we are even more subject than formerly, we must necessarily suffer by the concomitant effects. Indeed, it is found, that in proportion as the refinements of luxury increase in a nation, the number and variety of diseases also increase. On the contrary, the more uncivilised a people continue, and the more their habits and customs approximate to a state of nature, they are, proportionally, less affected by the causes of disease. The emotions of the mind, again, affect the human race in various ways, and more violently, and, for the time of their duration, more obstinately than any other living creature. Another source of diseases among mankind are various specific contagions, of which, perhaps, the greater number ori- ginate in the surrounding atmosphere. This is highly probable, at least with respect to marshy exhalations, and the effluvia of places rendered unwholesome by different manufacturing processes. Another class of con- tagious miasmata consists of those which cannot be traced to any certain origin. In fine, we daily observe their migrations, and we perceive them moving from one individual to another, without fixing any stationary resi- dence ; yet they have frustrated, hitherto, every attempt made towards their extirpation. Of this unsettled nature are the small-pox, the measles, the hooping-cough, the influenza, and many other epidemics. All these con- spire to impair health, and shorten the duration of human life. The greater number, also, of what are termed fashionable complaints, which produce decided effects on the constitution, are nearly united to each other. At one time, the gout was a very rare complaint, compared with what it is at the present day; it used to attack only the external parts of persons advanced in years, though now it has become a constitutional dis- position—a juvenile complaint, torturing the patient in a thousand different forms; and instead of the old gout, which used to confine itself to the hands and feet, we now hear of the nervous gout, the gout in the head, and, fre- quently, the fatal gout in the stomach. Neither rank, age, sex or condition, appear to be exempt from this insidious disorder. The next, and still more general malady of the times, is what are called nervous diseases; that is, an extreme sensibility to every atmospheric change, or rather, a constant sensible relation to its influence. By consulting their sensations, these living barometers announce more correctly than the artificial ones, not only the present, but the future changes of the weather. Nor less characteristic of the present generation, but more painful, are the fashionable nervous and hypochondriacal diseases. Such insidious and formidable tormentors, not only derange our physical well being, but make such inroads upon our tranquillity and contentment, as to cloud our fairest prospects of happiness ; without depriving us of life, they render it an insupportable burthen, and without inducing death, they not unfrequently make him a welcome visitor.