AL AL 3 sists solely of this principle, united with water and free soda, and mixed with a small quantity of saline matter. In this state it is coagulated by heat, alcohol, and the stronger acids. It is precipitated by several re-agents, especially by metallic salts. It co- agulates without appearing to un- dergo any decomposition.—Braude’s Chemistry. ALBUMEN, VEGETABLE.— There are vegetables which contain a substance coagulable by heat, and which is very analogous to animal al- bumen. It was detected in the bitter almond by Vogel; in the sweet al- mond by M. Boulay; and probably exists in most of the emulsive seeds. —Annals of Philosophy, vol. xii. p. 39. On exposure to the atmophere in a moist state, albumen passes at once to the state of putrefac- tion. From its coagulability, it is of the greatest use in clarifying liquids; and it likewise possesses the remarkable property of rendering leather supple, for which purpose a solution of whites of eggs in water is used by leather dressers. Orfila has found the white of egg to be the best antidote to the poisonous effects of corrosive sublimate. Albumen may be obtained in the solid form by agitating white of egg with ten or twelve times its weight of alcohol. ALCOHOL.—The inebriating in- gredient of all vinous and spirituous liquors. It is the product of the vinous fermentation; a colourless elastic fluid, of a penetrating odour, and burning taste; highly volatile; boiling, when its density is 0.820, at the temperature of 176 F. Ac- cording to Gay-Lussac, the specific gravity of its vapour is 1.613. Like volatile liquids in general, itpi-oduces a considerable degree of cold during its evaporation. Of all fluids, it is the only one which has not hitherto been congealed. It is highly inflam- mable, and burns with a lambent yel- lowish blue flame. It unites with water in every proportion. Of the salifiable bases, alcohol alone can dissolve potassa, soda, lithia, ammonia, and the vegetable alkalies. All the salts which are either inso- luble, or sparingly soluble in water, are insoluble in alcohol. The efflo- rescent salts are,likewise, for the most part insoluble in this menstruum; but, on the contrary, it is capable of dissolving all the deliquescent salts, except the carbonate of potassa. Many of the vegetable principles, as sugar, manna, camphor, resins, balsams, and the essential oils, are soluble in al- cohol. Alcohol is inferred to consist of, Carbon .. 12 2 atoms .. 52.17 Oxygen 8 1 atom .. 34.79 Hydrogen 3 3 atoms .. 13.04 23 100.00 These numbers are in such propor- tion, that alcohol may be regarded as a compound of fourteen parts, or one atom, of olefiant gas, and nine parts, or one atom, of water. Alcohol was discovered upwards of 600 years ago, though it is said to have been known to the Chinese time immemorial, as their varnish is dis- solved in alcohol, although this is not clearly proved. This highly-purified spirit is never given internally in a pure state; but is mostly employed as the basis of tinctures, and to dis- solve resinous matter. If a small quantity be added to water, it acts the same as common spirits, but with this essential difference ; when newly made, it seems to contain much sethe- real spirit of a bad and destructive kind, which it loses on keeping: on this account it is that raw spirits abroad are found so very noxious. The specific gravity of alcohol to that of distilled water, is as 815 to 1000. It is the basis of all wines, and may be distilled from all with a boiling heat. It differs in flavour according to the substances from which it is prepared, or the artificial additions. It appears in different forms—rum, brandy, usquebaugh, &c.; mixed with