373 VE VE boiling them too much. All kinds of vegetables should have a little crisp- ness, for if they be boiled too much, you will deprive them of both their sweetness and appearance. It is very important to those who are not in the constant habit of attending markets, to know when the various seasons commence for pur- chasing sweet herbs. All vegetables are in their highest state of perfec- tion, and fullest of juice and flavour, before they begin to flower. The first and last crop have neither the fine flavour nor the perfume of those which are gathered in the height of the season, that is, when the greater part of the crop of each is ripe. All vegetables of this kind ought to be gathered on a dry day; in order that they may preserve their colour when dried, cleanse them well from dirt and dust, cut the roots off, separate the bunches into small ones, and dry up by an artificial heat, that is, by means of a stove, or in a Dutch oven, before a common fire, that the dessication may be speedily finished. In applying the heat, the most re- quisite and only caution is to avoid burning them, and of this a sufficient test is afforded by the preservation of the colour. After they are thus dried, it is usual to lay them by in paper bags, in a dry place, though the best way to preserve the flavour of aromatic herbs is to pick off the leaves as soon as they are dined, to pound them, and to pass them through a hair sieve, and keep for use in well stopped bottles. Vegetables by maceration are re- duced into amylum, or starch, gluten, or vegeto-animal matter, mucilage, or mucus, besides the parenchyma, or refuse which remains behind. Some have supposed that the pro- portion of nutriment of farinaceous matter was according to the quantity of vegeto-animal matter, and is inso- luble in cold water, but forms a kind of mucilage in boiling water. No vegetable matter forms so much gluten as wheat, vermicelli and maca- roni (which see), which is starch beat up with yolks of eggs and dried. Bai'ley is by some considered a better aliment than wheat, because it consolidates a greater proportion of water by long boiling; they having established, as a general rule, that the more water a substance can con- solidate, the more nutritious it is. Boiled vegetables are more nutri- tious than raw; they are also better eaten when warm. Potatoe is the most valuable matter we have; after wheat, oats, and barley, parsneps and carrots are more nourishing than even potatoes. Barley made to grow, and then the growth stopped and dried, affords a great deal of sugar. Such substances as can be made sweet, are more nourishing than before. VEGETABLES, To Preserve. —Carrots, parsneps, and beet-root, are to be kept in layers of dry sand; they should not be divested of the earth which attaches to them, on taking them out of the ground. The same observation applies to potatoes. Onions keep best hung up in a dry cold room. Parsley should be cut close to the stalks and dried in a warm room, or on tins in a very cool oven; it preserves its flavour and colour, and is very useful in winter. Cut cauliflowers when quite dry, with the leaves on, and hang them up by the stalk, they will keep long in a cellar; they ought to lie in water two or three hours, and afterwards to be boiled with a great deal of salt. Artichokes, slowly dried, ought to be kept in paper bags. Truffles, morels, lemon peel, &c., in a di-y place ticket- ed. Small cabbages laid on a cold stone floor, before the frost sets in, will blanch and be very fine for many weeks, although the outer leaves may be quite spoiled. As substitutes for garden vegeta- bles, hop-tops growing on hedges are good in the spring, boiled in little 2 K