223 01 OF ately after opening them ; a lighted candle or torch should first be let down, for where these will not burn animal life cannot long be sustained. —See Smell. OFFAL.— The lungs of animals contain nothing but air and blood- vessels, which are very tough, solid, difficult to be digested, and afford little nourishment. Besides, on ac- count of the encysted breath, and the mucus contained in them, they are in reality disgusting. The liver, from its dry and earthy consistence, produces a vitiated chyle, and ob- structs the vessels—hence, it requires a great quantity of drink, and ought never to be used by the plethoric: the blood-vessels and biliary parts adhering to it, are particularly dis- agreeable. The heart is dry, scarcely digestible, and not very nourishing. The kidneys are also acrid, hard, tough, and not easily digested by the delicate. These intestines, however, of young animals, such as calves and lambs, produce aliment suffi- ciently wholesome. The blood of animals is completely insoluble, and consequently in no degree nourish- ing.—See Oils, Animal. OIL.—Oil is preferable to ani- mal fat, but ought to be fresh, mild, and of a sweetish taste; it seldom or never agrees with weak stomachs; for in them, even in its mildest state, it easily generates a rancid acrimony, extremely injurious to digestion. It should be eaten with much bread, when used in salads or otherwise, as it requires a powerful and active bile to assimilate it to alimentary matter. Olives and almonds yield the greatest quantity of oil; and next to Pro- vence oil, that expressed from wal- nuts and chestnuts is the sweetest and easiest of digestion. All oily substances require stronger powers of digestion to reduce them to chyle, and even when thus reduced M. Magendie found that it was in a less digested state than what was formed from other substances. Besides the oil used for salads (olive oil), and in some parts of Europe for dressing vegetables, it is contained in a large proportion in olives, and all sorts ol nuts, which of course renders them difficult of digestion. OIL, CASTOR, PLANT.—(Ri- cinus Communis, L.J.—The castor oil plant was first cultivated in England, in the time of Turner, who stands among our earliest botanists, or ra- ther herbalists, and is now annually reared in many gardens in the vici- nity of London. An oil extracted from the seeds of this plant, and known by the name of oleum ricini, palma christi, or castor oil, is the drug to which the Pharmacopoeias refer, and which has lately come into frequent use, as a quick but gentle purgative. The oil usually em- ployed in this country is imported from the West Indies, where it is found to be one of the most certain remedies in the dry belly-ach, a species of Devonshire colic. Dr. Cullen observes, that this oil, when the stomach can be reconciled to it, is one of the most agreeable purga- tives that can be employed; having the particular advantage of operat- ing sooner after its exhibition than any other of the same class of me- dicines. It is particularly suited to cases of costiveness, and even to cases of spasmodic colic, and more to those troubled with hemorrhoids. The common dose is a tablespoonful or half an ounce, though many re- quire double this quantity. OIL OF CINNAMON.—A warm stimulant, and delicious stomachic, given in the dose from one to three drops, rubbed down with some yolk of egg, in a little wine; it allays vio- lent emotions of the stomach from morbid irritability, and is particu- larly serviceable in debility of the first passages, after any depressing disorder. OILS, ANIMAL.—The fat and marrow of animals afford,indeed,solid and elastic alimentary juice, increase