BU 51 BU F 2 Gravies.—Add four ounces and ahalf of lump sugar, to a gill of water (quarter of a pint), and half an ounce of the finest butter; put them into a small pot, and set them over a gentle fire, and stir them with a wooden spoon till they become of a light brown : then add a pint of wa- ter, boil and skim it, and bottle off for use when cold, and cork it close. As much of this may be added to soup or gravy as will give it the de- sired colour. A Clear Brouming for Gravy or Gravy Soups.—Put a knuckle of veal, two pounds of lean beef, and an equal quantity of a lean gammon of bacon, all cut in slices, into a stewing pan, with a sufficient quantity of scraped carrots, onions, turnips, and celery, to two quarts of water; let the meat be stewed till quite tender, but do not brown it. Thus prepared, it will serve either in soup, or brown, or white gravy; if for brown, add some of the above colouring, and boil a few minutes.—See Made Dishes. BUCKBEAN.—See Marsh Tre- foil. BUCKWHEAT. —Used in se- veral places to make bread; which is easily digested, though not so nutri- i tive as ours. It contains much oil, and a little salt. It is called Sara- i cen crumb, because it formerly grew plentifully among the Saracens. ' BUG LOSS.—Bugloss and Bor- rage are two plants much used in cooling broths. We place them here together, because they possess the same virtues, and are often used the one for the other. They qualify the acrimony of the blood and other se- cretions. Their flowers are pectoral and exhilarating. They are hard of digestion when eaten in substance; they consequently require to be pre- viously well boiled. They agree at all times with young people of a hot and bilious constitution. BURNET.—There are two sorts of Burnet, one wild, growing in the fields, and not much used in food; and the garden burnet, most in use. It is difficult of digestion, and in- duces costiveness when used to ex- cess. That is to be chosen which is tender, small, and of an agreeable taste and smell. It is commonly used in salads. It was not known to the ancients. Some authors have placed it among the species of sassa- fras. Moderately used, it agrees with all ages and constitutions. The chief virtue in burnet is in its essential oil; it opens the venal glands, and gives a free passage to the serous humours that are contin- ually filtrating there, and expels those gross humours which tend to ob- struct the urinary passages. Burnet, in Latin, is called Pem- penella quasi Bepinella, because the leaves of it are two and two, ranged along the sides like those of the pine tree. It is also called Sanguisorba from its styptic properties. BURR AGE. — See Borrage, Bugloss. BUTCHERS’ MEAT. The flesh of all quadrupeds used as- food, with the exception of those which come under the manipulation of the poulterer, as hares, rabbits, &c. falls within this denomination. BUTCHERS’ MEAT, To Choose. — Some directions in the selection of butchers’ meat are of great importance to all who desire to have the operations of the sto- mach conducted on the most salutary principles. Independent of this, to be able to distinguish the different kinds of meat, as exhibited for sale in the shambles, is a point of domes- tic economy from which considerable advantages are derivable. 1. Ox-Beef.—In the choice of ox- beef, observe the following directions : If the meat be young, it will have a fine smooth open grain, of a pleasing carnation red, and very tender: the fat must incline to a white rather than a yellow hue; for when it is quite yellow the meat is seldom good. The suet ought to be perfectly white.