TE TE 328 the smallness of the leaves as well as the depth of the tincture it gives to water. Others take it for the tea of some particular province ; the soil being found to make an al- teration in the properties of the tea as much as the season of gathering it. It is all bought at Nankin and thence brought to Europe, where it is now much in vogue. As to the differences in colour and flavour peculiar to these two kinds and to their varieties, Or. Lettsom thinks that there is reason to suspect that they are in some measure ad- ventitious or produced by art. He has been informed by intelligent persons who have resided some time in Canton, that the tea about that city affords very little smell while growing. The same is observed of the tea plants now in England, and also of the dried specimens from China. We are not, however, as he observes, to conclude from hence that art alone conveys to teas when cured the smell peculiar to each kind, for our vegetable grasses, for instance, have little or no smeli till they are dried and made into hay. As to the opinion that the green tea owes its verdure to an efflores- cence acquired from the plates of copper, on which it is supposed to be cured or dried, he shews that there is no foundation for this suspi- cion. The infusions of the finest im- perial and bloom teas undergo no change on the affusion of a volatile alkali, which would detect the minu- test portion of copper contained in them by turning the liquors blue. The fine green colours of these teas, with as little reason, have been attri- buted to green copperas, as this me- tallic salt would, on itsbeing dissolved in water, immediately act on the astringent matter of the leaves, and convert the infusion into ink, as hap- pens when a chalybeate water has been employed in the making of tea. On the whole Hr. Lettsom thinks it not improbable that some green dye, prepared from vegetable substances, is employed in the colouring of the leaves of the green teas. And Neu- mann suspects that the brown colour and the flavour of the bohea sorts are introduced by art: both the green and bohea teas have an agreeable smell, and a lightly bitterish sub- astringent taste; with solution of cha- lybeate vitriol they strike an inky blackness. They give out their smell and taste, both to watery and spiri- tuous menstrua; to water the green sorts communicate their own green tincture, and the bohea their brown: but to a rectified spirit they both im- part a fine deep green. The extracts obtained by gently drawing off the menstrua from the filtered tinctures are very considerably astringent, and not a little ungrateful, but the spirituous more so. S a vary also speaks of a sort of red tea or tartar tea, called honan tcha, which tinges the water of a pale red, and which is said to be extremely digestive : by means hereof it is that the Tartars are said to be able to feed on raw flesh. Its taste is earthy and much the least agreeable of them all; but this is scarcely known in England. Tea is to be chosen of the briskest smell, and as whole as possible, and tlie greatest care is to be taken that it have not been exposed to the air to fall and evaporate. The drink tea is made in China, and throughout the greatest part of the east, after the same manner as in Europe, viz., by infusing the leaves in boiling water, and drinking the infusion hot. In- deed among us it is usual to temper its bitterness with sugar, but the ori- entals use it without the addition of sugar or milk; however, the Japanese are said to prepare their liquor in a somewhat different w'ay, viz., by pulverising the leaves, stirring the powder in hot water and drinking it as we do coffee. But from the ac- count given by Du Plalde, this me- thod is not peculiar to the Japanese,