02 CII CA ' portions as are fit to help at table. A prudent carver will cut fair; and ob- serve an equitable distribution of the dainties be is serving out, and re- gulate bis helps, by the proportion which bis dish bears to the number be has to divide it amongst—taking into the reckoning the quantum of appetite the several guests are pre- sumed to possess. “ Study their geniuses, caprices, gout— They, in their turn, may haply study you: Some wish a pinion—some prefer a leg; Some for a merry-thought, or side-bone beg ; The wings of fowls—then slices of the round— The trail of woodcock—of cod-fish the • sound. Let strict impartiality preside— Nor freak, nor favour, nor affection guide.”—From the Banquet. CASSIA.—Though the bark of cassia resembles that of cinnamon in taste, it is much less heating, and certainly more beneficial for common use than the latter, which is better adapted to medicinal purposes. The bark of cassia is thicker and coarser; it breaks short and smooth, while the cinnamon breaks fibrous and in splinters. The pulp of the cassia fistularis, or cassia of the cane, is a gentle aperient and nutrient in fevers, and is useful where stronger purga- tives might be injurious. CAULIFLOWERS. — See' Cab- bage, Red ; and Vegetables, Introduc- tion of. CELERY.—Celery is one of the most fragrant roots we possess in this climate, though its shoots and leaves are more commonly used for salads than the root itself. There are two species of celery known among gardeners, both of which are estimable : one produces thick knobby roots, not unlike the size and figure of a short pine-apple; and the other has a variety of small white, tender, and odorous roots. The latter species is more common in this country, while the former is much'esteemed in France and Ger- many, where it is eaten in thin slices, previously soaked in vinegar; a pre- paration which, in summer, affords a cooling and wholesome dish. In a raw state, celery is digested with some difficulty, which may be re- moved by boiling it in water, or soaking it as before observed, for a short time, in vinegar. The Germans prepare an artificial coffee from this root, by cutting it into small square pieces, which are dried and roasted in the usual manner. This kind of coffee has been recommended, parti- cularly to nurses and lying-in women, as a wholesome substitute for either tea, or a real coffee. Mr. John Anderson, gardener to the Earl of Essex, at Cassiobury, communicated a few years ago, in a letter to the secretary of the Horti- cultural Society, his method of grow- ing early celery. He forms in the ground a trench, six feet wide, and one foot deep; into this he puts six inches of rotten dung, mixed with a little road dirt, and mixes the com- post well with the soil by digging it together. The celery is then planted in cross rows, six inches apart, and eighteen inches from row to row ; as the plants advance, they are earthed across the trench. By this means a much larger quantity of celery can be grown in the same space of ground than in the usual way ; but the me- thod is only applicable to early celery, for late crops so grown, would be liable to rot and perish.—Transact, of Ilort. Society, vol. v. p. 492. CHAMOMILE. — A perennial plant, indigenous in the south of England, but cultivated in our gar- dens for medicinal purposes. The flowers of chamomile are useful in indigestion, gout, green sickness, flatulent colic, and chronic weakness of the stomach and bowels. In these cases they are best given in the form of a cold infusion, or tea, in combination with ginger and car- bonate of soda. The warm strong