SO so 303 trefactive process begins as soon as meat is killed, which is commonly allowed to proceed a little, as this process is the most effectual breaker down of animal matters, as well as a great assistant in solution. The length of time that meat ought to he kept after it is killed will de- pend upon its tendency to undergo the putrid fermentation, and the de- gree of those circumstances which are inclined to favour it. For in- stance, in warm climates, where meat will not keep above four or five hours, it is used in a more recent state than in colder countries. Boiled or roasted meats create a difference in the facility with which solution is effected. By boiling, the juices interposed between the fibres are extracted; the fibres are approx- imated closer to each other, and rendered more difficult of solution, a circumstance, too, which is in- creased by the juices, which are much more alkalescent than the fibres, (see Cookery). But when it is wished to avoid the stimulus of alkalescent food, and the quick solu- tion of it, as in some cases of disease, the roasted should not be selected. Of roasted meats, the question may be asked, which is the most proper; those which are most or least done ? To this we would reply, that that which is least done is certainly the most soluble. Even raw meats are more soluble than dressed; at least, Dr. Cullen was made acquainted with this circumstance, by a person who, from necessity, was obliged for some time to live upon it in this state. Still, at the same time that meats little done are very soluble, they are very alkalescent, so that when alka- lescency is to be avoided in the alimentary canal, the meats most roasted should be preferred. Those who throw away the liquor of boiled meats do very wrong, for, inde- pendent of its furnishing a fluid of a nutritious quality, it increases, from its greater alkalescency, the solubility of the meat. Pure blood has been thought in- soluble. It is, undoubtedly, very nutritious : and though, out of the body, like the albumen of eggs, it seems very insoluble; yet, like that too, in the body, it is commonly very easily digested. Moses very properly forbade it to the Israelites, as in warm countries it is highly alka- lescent, and even in cold climates, when it was used in great quantities, the scurvy was more prevalent; but to a moderate use of it in European climates, no particular objections are alleged. Viscidity of the alimentary juice is another variety of solubility. For this reason, the meat of young animals appears more soluble than that of old, not only on account of its greater compactness and firmness of texture, but also from the greater viscidity of its juice. In proof of this assertion, nothing is more com- mon than to be longer oppressed from a full meal of veal, than from an equal quantity of beef. Owing also to the greater viscidity of the juice of young animals, the ten- dinous and ligamentous parts are longer retained in the stomach than such as are purely muscular. Fishes, whose muscular parts are exceedingly tender, are, from their glutinous and viscous nature, longer in being dis- solved. Eggs, in like manner, which are exceedingly nutritious, have the same property, and cannot, on this account, be taken in great quantities, in consequence of the stomach being peculiarly sensible to gelatinous sub- stances ; on which account nature, probably, has taught us, by a sort of instinct as it were, to limit ourselves in the use of these nutritive sub- stances. With respect to solution, the oils of animal food must be taken into the account. These, when tole- rably pure, are the least putrescent part of it, and, by diminishing the cohesion of the fibres, render them more soluble. On this account, the lean of fat meat is more easily dis- solved than other lean. But by exposure to much heat, the oil is