G7 CH CH less liable to decomposition, but less dangerous. CHESTNUTS.—Nuts are gene- rally supposed to have constituted the earliest food of mankind; and, in some countries, they still supply a considerable source of food. In this country they are principally known as an article of the dessert, although occasionally eaten with our food: they are made a favourite accompa- niment with turkey; though dispep- tics should be extremely guarded in their use. Dr. Paris gives a case which, while on this subject, is wor- thy of being here recorded. “ I was lately desired to see a person who, after such a repast, was seized with violent pain in the region of the duo- denum, accompanied with distress- ing retching. I instantly suspect- ed the cause, and the appearance of the stools, which were produced, confirmed my supposition. The chestnuts had swelled in the intes- tines, and produced an obstruction, probably at that part of the duode- num where it makes its exit through the ring of the mysentery ; or they might have lodged in the stomach, and produced an irritation upon the pylorus.”—See Treatise on Diet, &c. p. 252. The chestnut, as regards its com- position, may be considered as more closely allied to the pulse than the nut tribex since it affords no oil by expression; and from its farinaceous qualities it may even be made into bread, although it is heavy and indi- gestible. Its nutritive power must he considerable, since it forms the chief food of the lower orders in the plains of Lombardy; and an opinion has prevailed that the chestnut was the acorn so frequently mentioned in ancient history. When eaten after dinner, the chestnut ought to be roasted; but even in this state it is only fit for strong and robust sto- machs and constitutions. Its diges- tibility is also increased by being kept for some time after it has been gathered. It is at the same time rendered thus more palatable by the evolution of its saccharine property. The evils which may arise from the use of this nut are still more likely to ensue after the ingestion of nuts, for they are then more oily, as well as more viscid and glutinous — when eaten they should invariably be ac- companied with salt, though it would be a wise plan to banish them en- tirely from our tables. There is, however, a fascination in nuts which cannot always be resisted, and which leads a person, who once begins to eat them, to take such a quantity that the best stomach cannot bear with impunity. It is observed by Hoffinan, that bowel complaints are always more prevalent in those years in which the nut-harvest is more plentiful. CHLORESTINE.—A name ap- plied by a French chemist (M. Chev- reul), to the crystalline matter, which constitutes the basis of most of the biliary concretions formed in the human subj ect. 11 has lately been detected in the bile of man, and in several of the lower animals, as the ox, dog, pig, and bear. This inte- resting discovery was made about the same time, by Chevreul, in Paris, and by Tiedemann and Gmelin, in Heidelberg. M. Lassaigne has like- wise found it in the biliary calculi of a pig. Ann. de Chimii et de Pharm. vol. xxxi. “ MM. Pelletier and Caventou, have obtained a new acid from chlorestine, or the pearly sub- stance of human biliary calculi dis- covered by PouUetier-de-Laselle, and named by Chevreul. Chlorestine is to be heated with its weight of strong nitric acid, until it cease to give off nitrous acid gas. A yellow substance separates on cooling, scarcely solu- ble in water, and which, when well washed, is pure chloresteric acid.’’— Journal of Science. CHOCOLATE. — A well-known article of diet prepared from the cocoa-nut, highly nourishing, parti-