325 TE TE be vitiated from other causes, &c. In almost every disease, especially in fevers, physicians inquire into the state of the tongue, and not without the greatest reason ; as from this they can judge of the state of the stomach, of the thirst, or rather the occasion the patient has for drink, when, on account of delirium or stupor, he neither feels his thirst, nor is able to call for drink. And, lastly, from an inspection of the tongue, physicians endeavour to form some judgment concerning the nature, increase, and remission of the fever. TEA.—The tea-tree, which has employed the pens of so many emi- nent writers, still deserves some at- tention, as the nature and properties of it are but imperfectly understood. It is of a genus of plants which botanists call Tliea, belonging to the class trigynia. Of this genus, Lin- naeus enumerates two species, viz. the bohea heavy flower with six pe- tals, and the green tea, having flowers with nine petals. But Dr. Lettsom, in his botanical description of the tea plant, thinks it most probable, that there is only one species, and the difference between the green and bohea teas depends on the nature of the soil, culture, age, and the man- ner of drying the leaves. He adds, it has even been observed that a green tea tree, planted in the bohea country, will produce bohea, and on the contrary; and on his examining several hundred flowers, brought both from the bohea and green tea countries, their botanical characters have always appeared uniform. Tea has been known in Europe above two hundred and twenty years, for the Dutch East India Company (who first imported and raised its repu- tation in Europe) wasfounded in 1602, upon a contribution at their first set- tlement of 6,459,840 florins. The English East India Company was formed near the latter end of Queen Elizabeth’s reign, their charter being dated in 1599, and their first fleet set out in 1600. But they made no figure before King James I. bestowed his favours upon them. The French East India Company was established in 1664. The Dutch in their second voyage to China canned thither good store.of dried sage, and exchanged it with the Chinese for tea; they had three or four pounds of the last for one of the first, calling it a wonderful European herb, possessed of as many virtues as the Indians could possibly ascribe to their shrub-leaf; but be- cause they exported not such large quantities of sage as they imported of tea, they bought a great deal, and gave eight pence or ten pence a pound for it in China. And when they first brought it to Paris, they sold it there at about thirty livres a pound, though it was not of the best sort, for that comes from Japan, and has often been sold at a hundred iivres a pound. But about thirty years ago, the Chi- nese sold it at threepence, and never above nine pence a pound, though frequently mixed with other herbs to increase its quantity—See Sage. Tea has met with very different opinions, according to the various humours of those who have ventured publicly to offer their sentiments upon it. Some ascribe such sovereign virtues to this exotic, as if it were able to eradicate or prevent the spring of every disease, and extol it to such a degree as to render their panegyrics in favour of it, more like satire than praise. Others on the contrary are equally severe in their censures, and have imputed the most pernicious consequences to it, accounting it no better than a slow but efficacious poison, and a seminary of diseases. While others again seem to question the virtues ascribed to tea, and ima- gine them industriously magnified to promote and encourage the importa- tion of it to increase the merchant’s gain. One great reason of these different sentiments concerning this foreign leaf is, that authors who have written upon it, have not taken the 2 f