GE 146 GI the consistence of a very thick paste; after which it is spread, rather thin, upon a smooth stone, then cut into cakes, and, lastly, dried in a stove until it becomes brittle. These cakes will keep four or five years, if de- fended from moisture. When in- tended to be used, nothing more is required to be done than to dissolve a sufficient quantity in boiling water, which by that simple process is con- verted into soup for immediate use. GENTIAN.—A perennial plant, growing in the mountainous parts of Germany, Switzerland, and France. It is sometimes found wild in Eng- land. It has an intense and perma- nent bitter taste, with a slight aro- matic flavour, but no smell. It is one of the best stomachics, though so unpleasant from its intense bitter- ness, that few can be prevailed upon to continue its use. It has but little astringency, and yet it is a good tonic. Its uses are the same as those of bark, in chronic weakness, lan- goui-, and particularly in indigestion, being one of the best tonics to the intestines. A scruple of the powder is said to be more efficacious in in- termittents, than a drachm of the bark. The compound infusion of gentian, particularly if joined with aromatics, is an excellent prepara- tion. The tincture of gentian is also an elegant form, and the extract is an useful addition to steel, formed into pills, in green-sickness. Take—Compound infusion of gen- tian ... 7^ ounces Epsom salt . . 4 ounce Compound tincture of cardamoms . . £ ounce Make a mixture—dose, two table- spoonfuls three or four times a day, —in indigestion. GERMAN WINES.—There are excellent wines made in the Impe- rial dominions; particularly on the banks of the Rhine and Moselle. These wines djffer from those of other countries in a peculiar light- ness and detersive quality, and are said to be more valuable in some diseases than any medicine. The Rhenish, made at Hochheim, has been styled the prince of German wines. Old, strong, Rhenish wine is called hock, or hocJcamore. The German nobility display their mag- nificence in their wines; and in many houses, as Lady Mary Wortley Montague remarks, the list of them, printed, is put under every plate at their entertainments. Mr. Wraxall, in his Memoirs, (vol. ii. p. 257), has given a copy of one of these papers, which contained thirteen dif- ferent sorts. The city of Bremen, in Lower Saxony, is noted for its old hock, which is brought from the banks of the Rhine, and deposited in the public cellars, which are won- derfully capacious; though not com- parable in magnificence to some in Portugal, or to those of Constantia, at the Cape of Good Hope. There is one particular room, called tliS Rose, where wine is kept which they state to be 170 years old, and for which one pound five shillings a bottle is asked. The famous Heidel- berg tun, constructed in 1343, con- tained twenty-one pipes. It was re- built in 1664, and made to contain 600 hogsheads, English measure. This was emptied and knocked to pieces by the French, in 1688. But a new and larger one was afterwards fabri- cated, which held 800 hogsheads. It was formerly kept full of the best Rhenish wine, and the electors have given many entertainments on its platform; hut this convivial monu- ment of ancient hospitality is now but a “ melancholy, unsocial, soli- tary instance of the extinction of hospitality: it moulders in a damp vault, quite empty. It is nine yards long, seven in diameter, and holds 67,000 gallons; a measure, how- ever, greatly inferior to many of the London porter vats.”—Walker’s Lec- tures on Natural and Experimental Philosophy. GINGER, the Root, white and