XX INTRODUCTION. carried from the centre to the extremities and surfaces, in order to be car- ried back again to the centre: in others, the same fluid, only stagnated in the intestines of the viscera, appears to be stationary, and lubricates the parts which it cannot nourish by rendering them moist and pliant. In both, he developes the structure of the organ, by which the ambient air is made sub- servient to the mechanism of actual breathing: he shews us the universality ol the respiratory function, superior even to that of the circulating one, and consequently with nutrition. Thus, the first object of the organisation of living beings—the support of animal life—is seen, and however simple or complicated its mechanism may be, it inviariably reduces itself to a single problem ; namely, that of placing in one constant relation the atmospheric fluid with the alimentary juices. It we reflect upon the admirable uniformity which prevails throughout the rvorks of nature, both in the production and dissolution of matter, it will be found that she invaluably moves in a circle ; that in the perpetual destruction as well as in the subsequent demolition of bodies, she is always equally new and equally perfect; that the smallest particle, though invisible to our eyes, is usefully employed by her restless activity; and that death itself, or the destruction of forms and figures, is no more than a careful decomposition, and a designed regeneration of individual parts, in order to produce new substances, in a manner no less skilful and surprising. It may further be observed, that in the immense variety of things in the inconceivable waste of elementary particles, there nevertheless prevails the strictest economy; and nothing is produced in vain—nothing consumed without a cause. We clearly perceive that all nature is united by indissoluble ties; that every individual thing exists for the sake of another, and that not one of them can subsist without its concomitant. Hence it may be justly concluded, that man him- self is not an isolated being, but that he is a necessary link in the chain which connects the universe. And, although it be true tbat our knowledge of nature is still very imperfect, yet this circumstance ought not to deter us from investigating the means which may lead to its improvement. All men have not sufficient power to explore and acquire an extensive and accurate knowledge of nature; but those are inexcusable who remain entire strangers to her ordinary operations, and especially if they neglect to cidtivate a proper acquaintance with the constitution of their own frame. If, indeed, men were fixed to the earth, as the trees are by their roots, or if from mere animal instinct they were induced to search into the causes of our physical life, we then should vegetate like plants, or live like irrational animals. But in the character of creatures who ought to choose and reject agreeably to the dictates of reason, a more assiduous and minute study of nature, as well as of our own frame, is indispensable; because the physical constitution of man cannot subsist, unless he secure her intentions, and co-operate with her beneficent efforts. This, however, cannot be accomplished without much patience and perseverance.