GA GA 144 digestion. In dogs and cats, the greatest acidity was remarked when they were fed with coagulated albu- men, fibrin, bones, or gristle; it was less when they took starch, gelatine, potatoes, or rice; and when they were fed with liquid albumen, the alkaline quality of the food was nearly sufficient to neutralize the acidity of the gastric juice. This singular secretion has the peculiar property of coagulating milk, as well as all albuminous substances, which it also as completely dissolves; and hence, the milk thrown up from the stomach of an infant shortly after sucking, is always found in a curdled state. By infusing six or seven grains of the inner coat of the sto- mach in water, a liquor is produced, which, according to Dr. Fordyce, will coagulate one hundred ounces of milk; or according to Dr. Young, of Edinburgh, 6857 times its weight of milk. But the two grand and characteristic properties of the gastric juice are its astonishing power of counteracting and correcting putre- faction, and of dissolving the toughest and most rigid substances in nature. Of its antiseptic property, abundant proofs may be adduced from every class of animals. Among mankind, and especially in civilized life, food is usually eaten in a state of sweetness and freshness: but fa- shion and the luxurious desire of having it subacted and mellowed to our hands, tempt us to keep several kinds, as game and venison for in- stance, as long as we can endure the smell. The wandering hordes of Gipsies, however, and the inhabitants of various savage countries, and es- pecially those about the Orange river in Africa, carry this sort of luxury to a much higher pitch; for they seem to regard a fetor as a perfume, and value their food in proportion as it approaches putrefaction. Now, all these foods, whatever be the degree of their putridity, are equally re- stored to a state of sweetness by the action of the gastric juice, a short time after they have been introduced into the stomach. The gastric juice of a dog was made the subject of experiments, by Dr. Fordyce; when it was found, in every instance, that the putrid meat it could be made to swallow was in a very short period depi-ived of its pu- trescency. It cannot, therefore, be surprising that crows, vultures, and hyenas, which find a pleasure in tainted flesh, should fatten upon so impure a diet, nor that the dunghill should have its courtiers among in- sects, as well as the parterre and the flower-garden. The gastric juice has hence been employed as an anti- septic in a variety of cases out of the body. Spallanzani ascertained that the gastric juice of the crow and the dog will preserve veal and mutton perfectly sweet, and without loss of weight, thirty-seven days in winter; whilst the same meats, im- mersed in water, emit a fetid smell as early as the seventh, and by the thirtieth, are resolved into a state of the most offensive degree of putre- faction. It has also been employed medicinally, in cases of indigestion from a debilitated stomach; and ex- tenxally, as a check to gangrene, and a stimulus to indolent ulcers. The gastric juice is equally as re- markable for its solvent as for its antiputrescent property. Pieces of the toughest meat and the hardest bones, enclosed in small perforated tin cases, to guard against all mus- cular action, were repeatedly thi-ust by Reaumur and Spallanzani, into the stomach of a buzzard. These meats were uniformly found dimi- nished to three-fonrths of their bxxlk in the space of twenty-four hours, and reduced to sleixder threads; and the bones were wholly digested either upon the first trial, or after a few repetitions. The gastric juice of a dog dissolves ivory and the enamel of the teeth ; that of a hen has been found to dissolve an onyx and