SA 281 SA unwholesome. It is usually served up with shrimp or anchovy sauce. The Thames salmon is preferred in the London market. In some parts of Wales, salmon is cleaned and boiled as soon as caught, and sent up to table cold. In this state it is very good, eaten with pepper and vinegar. Salmon is most plentiful about Midsummer; the season for it is from February to September. Some sprigs of fresh gathered fennel are the usual accom- paniments. SALMON, PICKLED.—Salmon may be pickled in the following manner. The fish is to be cut into proper pieces, but the scales are not to be taken off. Make a brine strong enough to float an egg, in which boil the fish; throw in liquor just suffi- cient to cover it. Do not over-boil it. When boiled enough, lay the fish slantingly, to drain off all the liquor. When cold, pack it close in the kits, and fill them up with equal parts of 'the liquor the salmon was boiled in (having previously well skimmed it), and the best vinegar; let them stand for a day, fill up again, striking the sides of the kit with a cooper’s adze, until the kit will receive no more; then tread down as close as possible. This is the finest condition of the fish when fresh. Or, Boil as previously di- rected; then take the salmon out, and boil the liquor with bay leaves, peppercorns, and salt; add vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the fish. The three indispensable marks of the goodness of pickled salmon are, 1. The brightness of the scales, and their sticking fast to the skin; 2. The firmness of the flesh; and, .‘}. Its fine pale rose colour: without these it is not fit to eat, and was either stale before it was pickled, or has been kept too long after. Pickled salmon warmed by steam, or in its pickle liquor, is a favourite dish at Newcastle. S A L S A F Y. ( Tragopogon pra- tense). — The common goatsbeard. The young stems of this plant are eaten like asparagus, and are a plea- sant and wholesome food. The root is also excellent, and was formerly used medicinally as a diuretic. It is more easily reared in this country than asparagus. SALT.—Salt is either procured from rocks in the earth, from salt- springs, or from sea-water. The famous salt mines of Wielitska, near Cracow, in Poland, have been worked upwards of six hundred years, and yet present no appearance of being exhausted. Esperie, in Hungary, has also a noted salt mine. Lymington, in Hampshire, though its manufac- ture is greatly on the decline, still makes various kinds of excellent salt, both medical and culinary; there is one admirable salt spring at Droit- wich, near Worcester, and Cheshire abounds in saline waters. > Salt corrodes the fibres of plants, disorganises the connection of parts too firm for solution in the stomach, dissolves the glutinous particles, and prepares them for being better di- gested. Provisions of a tough and viscid consistence require much salt; for instance, beef, mutton, fish, peas, beans, &c. Hence, salt beef and herrings, agree so well with vege- tables, because the abundance of salt in the former, seasons the latter. But too copious a use of salted pro- visions is extremely prejudicial; they weaken the solids, the blood becomes thin, acrid and disposed to putres- cency; and hence, arise scurvy in all its stages, eruptions of the skin, consumptions and other diseases.— See Scurvy. There is comparatively little dan- ger of using too much salt with fresh provisions, as the only injury arising from an excess of this article would be a slight relaxation of the bowels. The importance and value of salt as an introduction into food, becomes continually more evident, as its me- dicinal properties are rendered more 2«2