10G DR DR large draughts of liquor, which oc- casion fei'mentation and flatulency. Excess of drinking overloads and oppresses the stomach, by distending it too much; but it is not nearly so hurtful as too much food. Every beverage relaxes the stomach; and persons whose bowels are not suffi- ciently elastic, should be careful in the quantity they drink; for an im- moderate proportion of it may weaken digestion, dilute the fluids too much, and conduct the fluid too quickly through the alimentary canal. An undue portion of weak drink renders the mass of blood too thin and watery; from a thin blood arises also a weak alimentary fluid, consequently, a general debility of the body, and relaxation of the urinary and other passages.—See Thirst. Too little drink, on the other hand, is equally improper; digestion is weakened; many parts of the food remain undissolved, and are not con- verted into chyle, because the proper means of diluting them are wanting; the blood becomes thick and viscid; and finally, the secretions and ex- cretions are not duly performed, in consequence of the different canals, being too dry and contracted. Wine, cyder, perry, and all fer- mented liquors, are antiseptic. When beer neither oppresses the stomach, nor binds the belly, but passes freely by urine, it may be allowed. When it generates wind, passes sluggishly, or generates stony concretions, it ought to be prohibited. Wine drank too freely, weakens the man, as may be seen by his actions. Sweet wines promote stools, but they excite flatu- lency and thirst; they promote ex- pectoration, but impede urine. Sharp austere wines are good when the body is loose, provided there be no affection of the head, no impediment in spitting, or making water. Pure wine is best for the stomach and bowels, diluted with water; and agrees best with the head, breast, and urinary organs. Strong Spanish, or Hungarian wines, strengthen the stomach.—See Tea.—Mineral Waters. The diversity of drink is nearly as great as that of the solid ali- ment. Water itself is of very differ- ent qualities, according to the parti- cles with which it is impregnated, and the places from which it is ob- tained. That of wells, springs, rivers, lakes, swamps, and the various mineral waters, all differ in their sensible properties. Even cold and warm water produce different effects. The former when moderately used, strengthens the stomach, and only proves debilitating when it is drunk in too large quantities. Warm water is always relaxing, and still more so when taken in copious draughts; it remains longer in the stomach than cold water, and consequently is more oppressive: cold liquor stimulates the stomach, but warm drink dimi- nishes its elasticity.—See Water.— Mineral Waters.—Sea Water. If the stomach be over-charged with liquids, and its elasticity weak- ened, a glass of strong wine, or other spirituous liquor, may remedy this inconvenience. Water can only be so far called nourishing, as it tends to supply the aqueous parts we are continually losing. It is the basis of all other fluids, and the greater proportion of water they contain, the better is digestion jjromoted.— See Wines.— Malt Liquors. The word drink may, in a manner, be applied to all sorts of liquid foods —such as broths, eggs in the shell, milk, and others, of which we have treated. It is in this sense that Hippocrates, (Aphor. xi. Sect. 2), says, Facilius esse rejici polu, quarn ciabo—i. e. We are sooner recovered by liquid than solid aliment. He prescribes those foods which ought to be taken by persons recovering from sickness; and for which there is much reason; for, besides that liquid foods are much easier digested, and agree better with their stomachs which have been debilitated by sick-