BI BI 34 ever be the use of the bile, or tbe office of the liver, it is known that the general symptoms ofjauntlice de- pend upon an obstruction of the flow of the bile into the alvine canal, and its retrograde passage into the blood. BIRDS, FLESH OF, considered as Food.—Every part of a bird, as well as its eggs, may safely be taken as food. A singular instance is men- tioned by Gmelin, of some people having been much affected after feasting upon larks, the flesh of which he suspects might have been rendered poisonous from having fed upon hemlock seed, which they eat with impunity; there can however be no doubt that this supposition is a mis- take, as larks, it is well known, are a common and favourite bird in the very country where this accident is said to have happened. There is a considerable difference in the essential properties of birds, not only of different kinds, but even in the different muscles of the same bird. The pectoral muscles which move the wings, are whiter, drier, and more tender, than those which move the legs. The tendons of the legs are also very strong, and at a certain age become bony; but the flesh of the legs, when sufficiently tender, either from the bird being young, or from long keeping, or sufficient cooking, is more juicy and savoury than that of the wings. Of a few birds, especially the woodcock and snipe, the legs are at all times preferred to the breast. In the black- cock, the outer layer of the pectoral muscles is of a dark brown colour, while the inner layers are white; a similar difference is observed in many other birds, and perhaps, in a slight degree, it is general. The muscular organs of birds differ from those of quadrupeds, in their flesh never being marbled, or having fat mixed with the muscular fibres. In the flesh of different species of birds, there is a considerable diver- sity ; but no very accurate distribu- tion of them in this respect can be made, as they run insensibly into each other, notwithstanding the ex- tremes are sufficiently distinct. The following however may be noticed as well enough marked:— 1. The white-fleshed, exemplified in the common Fowl and Turkey. 2. Dark-fleshed game, as Grouse, Black-cocks, &c. 3. Aquatic; Goose, Ducks, &c. 4. Rapacious; Hawks and Owls. Several species of the first and third classes are domesticated, and reared in great numbers, for, as term- ed, articles of food. The white-fleslied birds are very generally liked, when good of their kind, and by many are preferred to game, which, however, when suffi- ciently kept, constitutes one of the proudest luxuries of the Gourmand’s table; it has then acquired a peculiar odour, called fumet, and an aromatic bitter taste, most appreciable in the back. The aquatic birds, both swimmers and waders, are generally eaten, and many of them are very delicate, though in general they are disposed to become very fat, often acquiring a rancid and fishy taste, which, how- ever, is chiefly attached to the fat, and may be somewhat avoided by skinning the bird, and removing the inside layer of fat before cooking. None of the rapacious class of birds is eaten, partly perhaps from preju- dice, and principally, no doubt, from the cadaverous smell acquired by those which prey on carrion. The muscular fibre is coarser in the large than in the smaller buds of the same class; and it becomes less tender as they get older. It is also considerably influenced by sex; although the young cock of some birds is preferred, chiefly, it is con- ceived, on account of its greater size, and more handsome appearance. By removing the sexual organs at an early age, both sexes are much im- proved for the use of the table, be-