ST ST 309 of an oily menstruum. It is requi- site, during this culinary process, that the fire should be moderate, for a strong heat suddenly applied would be very injurious. The liquids em- ployed as the medium for applying the heat are usually water, gravy, or broth, the quantity of which must be such as shall prevent the meat from burning and adhering to the pan. It is not requisite that the liquid be made to boil in stewing. It should only he raised nearly to a simmering heat, which will retard the fluid being evaporated too quickly. The close- ness of the vessel Avill also prevent the waste of the liquid. If it dimi- nish too quickly, it must, from time to time, be replenished. The management of the fire in cooking, is, in all cases, a matter of importance, but in no case is it so necessary to be attended to as in preparing stews or made dishes; not only the palatableness, but even the strength or richness of all made dishes seem to depend very much upon the management of the heat employed in cooking them. The most proper sorts of animal food for stewing are such as abound in fibrine, and which are too dry or too tough for roasting. When beef or mutton is rather old and too coarse flavoured, and not tender enough for the spit or the gridiron, it may, by stewing, be not only ren- dered tolerably palatable, but even sometimes savoury and good. But the stewing process is not confined to flesh of this sort; for veal and other young flesh which abounds in gela- tine, when properly stewed, is much relished. The vegetables most usually stewed are carrots, turnips, potatoes, pease, beans, and other leguminous seeds. Some fruits are also cooked in this way. Rationale. — Stewing is nothing else than boiling by means of a small quantity of an aqueous fluid, and continuing the operation for a long time, to render the substance tender, to loosen its texture, to render it more sapid, and to retain and con- centrate the most essential parts of animal or vegetable food. If the stew-pan be close shut, it is evident that none of the nutritive principles can escape, and must either be found in the meat itself or in the liquid. The water or gravy in which the meat is stewed, being capable of dissolving the gelatine and albumen, the greater part of them become separated during the simmering pro- cess. Now, since the firm texture of the bundles of fibres of the meat is owing to the solid gelatine and albu- men glueing them, as it were, toge- ther, when they are dissolved and disengaged, the meat must become greatly disorganized. These prin- ciples, as well as the fat and osma- zome, are partly disengaged from the meat, and become united with the gravy. It is to these, indeed, that the gravy owes all its richness and excellence. The muscular fibres and the tendons acquire a gluey appear- ance and texture, and the whole forms a savoury gelatinous stew, gravy, or soup. No scorching or browning of the meat takes place if the process is properly conducted; for the temperature to which it is exposed does not exceed the boiling point of water. In the stewing of vegetables, saccharine matter is formed, the starch and mucilage are rendered soluble, and, of course, set free the woody fibre, which either floats through the liquid, or adheres together very slightly. It accordingly constitutes either a pasty fluid, or converts the vegetables to a soft pulp ; sometimes their original shape being preserved entire, and at other times not. Stews are very easy of diges- tion when they are very plain, in which case, they fall short, in point of nourishment, of meat that is broiled or roasted. Their best pro- perties, however, are frequently de- teriorated or injured by too high seasoning, and the addition of stimu*