341 TII TII Asiatic tribes, by a board placed on the region of the stomach, and rudely laced behind with cords, drawn tighter and tighter according to the urgency of the sensation. At home, a similar expedient is often resorted to by binding a handkerchief round the region of the stomach. It is not impossible, therefore, for a time, to overcome these natural sen- sations without the natural means; and it is equally known that the passions of the mind have as strong an influenee over both hunger and thirst as any of the substitutes above adverted to.—See Hunger, fyc. THISTLE (Carduus Marianus). The lady’s, or dappled thistle.—The young stalk, about the month of May, peeled and soaked in water, boiled or raw, is a very wholesome salad, eaten with the usual condiments. Some eat them sodden in broth, or baked in pies like artichokes; others prefer the tender stalks boiled or fried. The leaves when young sur- pass when boiled the finest cabbage, and in that state are diuretic. THORN APPLE (.Batura Stra- monium).—Numerous cases are on record of the poisonous effects of the leaves and seeds of this plant. When some of the British troops were under Sir J. St. Clair. (1765) in the vici- nity of Elizabeth town, N ew Jersey, three of the soldiers collected a quan- tity which they mistook for lambs quarters (chenopodium album), and dressed and ate it. One of them became furious and ran about like a madman. The second was seized with genuine tetanus or universal cramp, and died. The stramonium was some years since used to a con- siderable extent in asthma, and there is reason to believe, that in some cases it proved deleterious. It is so violent, that it ought to be ba- nished from practice till at least ex- periments have shewn its utility.— See Culinary Poisons. TII 0 RN B A C K.—(Raia clavata). A well-known salt water fish. It has a good taste, and is much used as food. It is rather hard of digestion, is apt to generate wind, and to pro- duce heavy and gross humours; and if eaten before it lie some time it will be attended more or less with the above effects. There are several kinds of thorn- backs, some of which have their backs all over diversified with white spots like stars ; though on others they are only seen on the tail. A thornback ought to be chosen when they are plump and tender; and they should be some time before they are cooked. It breeds abundantly, and there is never any lack of it in the market. It is salted in some places and dried in the sun or by means of fire. When well dried it will keep a long time.— See Raia. THYME, (Thymus Vulgaris).— There are two species of thymes cul- tivated for culinary purposes—the common aud the lemon thyme. The common or garden thyme (Thymus Vulgaris, L.), is a low evergreen under shrub, a native of Spain and Italy, and cultivated in this country since 1548, and probably long be- fore. It seldom rises above a foot high, has smaller flowers than the common noted thyme, and is fine and delicate in its flavour. There are two varieties of the broad and narrow leaved, besides the varie- gated, grown for ornament. The indigenous, spicey, and balsamic herbs, such as thyme, sage, parsley, marjoram, cannot be too much re- commended for culinary use, espe- cially in broths; as they are well calculated, by their aromatic virtues, to assist the digestion of many strong articles of food, which daily cover our tables, and these excellent herbs are not liable to the adulterations with which most of the foreign spices are vitiated. It possesses nearly the same virtues as maijoram and produces the same effects. The powers ascribed to this herb by the old physicians arc, that it 2 a 2