DI DI 97 to be puffed up with watery hu- mours, broths are sparingly to be used; roasted meats, and fresh-water fish, with generous wine, are indi- cated. If an acid acrimony abounds, as in young people, eggs, broths, and jellies are best. If the humours tend to an alkaline putrescency, bar- ley broths, bread and milk, are the fittest food. Acidulated liquids for common drink; and, if broths are allowed, they should also be acidu- lated.—Arhuthnoi. It has been discovered that the body perspires but little while the stomach is too full, or too empty; that full diet is prejudicial to those who use little exercise, but indispen- sably necessary to those who labour much: that food, the weight of which is not felt in the stomach, nourishes best, and perspires most freely. That he who goes to bed ’without supper, being hungry, will perspire but little; and if he does so often, will be liable to fall into a fever. That the flesh of young animals, good mutton, and well- baked bread, are the best food. That the body feels heavier after four ounces of strong food that nourishes much, such as pork, eels, salt fish, or flesh, than after six ounces of food that nourishes little, such as fresh-fish, chicken, and small birds; for where the digestion is difficult, the perspiration is slow. That un- usual feasting, frequently repeated, brings on a bad state of health. That the body is more uneasy and heavy after six pounds taken in at one meal, than after eight taken in at three. That he destroys himself slowly who makes but one meal a day, let him eat much or little. That he who eats more than he can digest, is nourished less than he ought to be, and hence becomes emaciated. That to eat immediately after excessive ex- ercise, either of body or mind, is bad; for a body fatigued, perspires but little.—Quince//. The diet and exercise of those ad- vanced in years should be moderate, and both regulated according to the habit of body. The gross old man should take his exercise chiefly in the forenoon, with as little nourish- ment as possible. The thin and spare old man must have something light upon his stomach for breakfast, but should take his exercise after dinner. As regards taking cold, each must guard the parts most liable to its in- fluence ; the thin old man must go as cool as possible in the forenoon, at which time he will not be so apt to take cold. An old man cannot safely part with flannel. Cornaro’s rule will hold good in general for all, which is, to lessen the quantity of solid food as you advance in years, but to allow it to be more nourishing. Habits that have been used but to a moderate quantity of any strong liquors, very rarely afterwards bear milk well; but if they will put as much cowslip wine as will half turn it, they may bear a small quantity of the clear liquor. Chocolate is too heavy for an old person. Green tea will do for the gross man, but to preserve an appe- tite for dinner, use no butter at break- fast. Small beer, which is fine, or pure water, or such as has been fil- tered or boiled, are the best diluters at dinner: the gross old man may add a little wine to his water. Ale at supper is useful to old people; it helps to finish the digestion of the day, promotes sleep, and keeps the body laxative; it ought not, however, to be stale. Those who observe a very abstemious diet require it, should they not be old. An abstemious old man will never suffer much from the gravel or stone, if his body be kept open. The abstemious old man needs no other physic than the flour of sul- phur, infusion of aloes, or an occa- sional dose of rhubarb : warm stock- ings in winter, woollen hose over all, and flannel. If warm strong liquors will not make him sleep, he will stand K