400 WO wo dust, and the husks of filberts—by these, and such means, it is that a mixture of spoiled foreign and home- made wines, is converted into the wretched compound, frequently sold as genuine port. Various expe- dients are resorted to, for the pur- pose of communicating particular flavours to insipid wine. Thus, a nutty flavour is produced by bitter almonds; and the ingredients em- ployed to form the bouquet of high- flavoured wines, are sweet-briars, orrice root, celery, cherry and laurel water, and elder flowers. Also, claret can he squeezed out of the sloe, and sparkling champagne from an apple; and thus are metamor- phosed the health stealing drugs whence spring many of the afflic- tions of the great, from which the poorer classes are exempted. Wines are usually doctored, as it is called, in order to give them peculiar fla- vours, and render them similar to some celebrated grape wines. Thus, bitter almonds are added to give a nutty flavour; sweet-briar, orrice root, celery, cherry, laurel water, and elder flowers, to form the bou- quet of high flavoured wines; alum, to render young and meagre red wines bright; Brazil wood, cake of pressed elder berries, and bilberries, to render pale faint port of a rich deep purple colour; oak sawdust, and husks of filberts, to give addi- tional astringency to unripe red wines; and a tincture of the seeds of raisins, to flavour fictitious red wines. Wine is also coloured with red beet, but in this case it is ren- dered colourless by lime water.— See ests. m WOODCOCK.— Woodcocks are found in almost every part of the world; and are served up to the best tables for their delicious taste. They appear at all times, but more especially in winter, for then they leave the mountains on account of the snow. They resemble a par- tridge, but their bill is considerably longer. They live upon flies and worms. The snipe is another kind of woodcock, differing only from the other by not being so big. The snipe is excellent eating, and is more easily digested than the woodcock. The good taste of both these birds proceeds from the purified juices con- tained in them; as also from their volatile and exalted principles: it is the same principles also that make the flesh of these birds restorative, and corroborant. They agree in winter with, all ages and constitu- tions, provided they be used mode- rately. Woodcocks should not be drawn, as the trail is, by the lovers of “haul gout," considered a “bonne bouche." This bird has so insinu- ated itself into the favour of refined gourmands, that the same honours are paid to it as to the grand lama, making a ragout of its excrements, and devouring them with ecstasy-— (see Almanack des Gourmands, vol. i. p. 5G). The wing of the woodcock is always very tough, that of the partridge very tender. The breast of all birds is the most juicy and nutritious part. WORMWOOD.—A bitter tonic plant, of considerable service in in- digestion and low spirits. It has also been used with advantage in ague, gout, and scorbutic complaints. Its power in expelling maw-worms is well known. The infusion of wormwood is made by pouring a pint of boiling water on an ounce of the plant, of which two tablespoons- ful may be taken twice or three times a-day. Infused in ale, wormwood makes what is called purl. WORT.—By wort is understood the oily, spirituous part of the malt, obtained by infusions of warm water that lie and soak with the grain, one, two, or more hours, which gra- dually opens the pores, whereby it gives out its virtues more freely: by the further assistance of a cover of fresh malt, which here prevents the escape of the finer, and more pene-