219 NU NU tion must be move rapid in those parts the constituent principles of which are in the smallest degree of cohesion, as in the fluids. It has been a subject of considera- tion, to determine tbe period of the entire renovation of the body; for which, however, it has been said that an interval of seven years is neces- sary, for the same particles to be to- tally obliterated, and their place supplied by others; and this change, it would appear, is more rapid in infancy and youth; it would also seem to be retarded in manhood, and to require a very long time to be accomplished in old age, when all our parts assume a remarkable degree of fixity and consistence, at the same time that the vital actions become more languid. There is little doubt that sex, constitution, climate, profession, mode of living, and a variety of other causes, tend to accelerate or retard this period; so that it is impossible to affirm anything certain relative to the pre- cise time of its duration. NUTS.—The use of nuts, espe- cially dry ones, incommodes the throat, the tongue, and the palate: they are very difficult of digestion.— (See Filberts). Nuts taste well enough when they are fresh; but as they grow old, so they become oily, prejudicial to tbe taste as well as health. Preserved nuts are very agreeable and wholesome; they for- tify the stomach, provoke appetite, correct fetid breath, stimulate the seminal vessels, and do not pro- duce the effects attributed to the nut in a dried state, the sugar having corrected the saline property of the former. They agree best with people advanced in years, and those of a phlegmatic and melancholic consti- tution.—See Walnuts. NUX VOMICA, (Vomic Nuts). —The seeds of a large tree, named Strychnos, growing in the East Indies; the fruit of the tree is a globular berry, of an orange colour. Nux vomica is a seed or kernel, of a flat, roundish form, about an inch broad, and a quarter of an inch thick, with a little prominence in the middle, on both seeds of a grey colour, covered with a kind of woolly matter, and is internally tough, and exceedingly hard, like horn. It contains half its weight of a bitter, gummy matter, and some portion of resin. It has a bitter taste, and is void of smell. St. Ignatius’s bean has been supposed to be the same thing; but it is quite distinct. It was long considered as a poison, and it does kill many animals. Gesner gave ten grains to a dog; the result was, the animal died comatose and convulsed. Gesner recommends it in the plague, and it has been pre- ferred to bark in intermittents. A tailor used it as a nostrum in agues with great success. It is not much used at present in this country. It is a tonic, combined with certain narcotic powers, determining to the head. It increases the strength and appetite, beginning with four or five grains twice a day. It is never proper where there is a tendency to apoplexy, as wherever there is gid- diness or stupor no tonic is proper. MM. Pelletier and Caventon dis- covered strychnine, one of the new vegetable alkalies, in 1818, in the fruit of the Strychnos Ignatia, and Strychnos Nux Vomica. It is one of the most virulent poisons hitherto discovered, and is the poisonous principle of the substance which contains it. It has since been ex- tracted by the same chemists from the upas. Its energy is so violent, that half a grain blown into the throat of a rabbit occasioned death in the course of five minutes. Its operation is always accompanied with symptoms of locked jaw, and other tetanic affections. It is suspected that what at one time was generally sold to brewers for cocculus Indicus was really nux vomica; and that the numerous body