348 TR TR whatever it may be, is strictly pro- hibited, as it is said to create bile, and foul the stomach. It does this, we conceive, chiefly by its being so indigestible, that it runs into fermen- tation before the stomach can act upon it, producing an acid, which causes irritation. Lean meat, con- sequently, is uniformly preferred to fat; and, what appears to be incon- sistent with the recommendation of the sinewy legs of fowls—the lean of fat meat is preferred to the lean of lean meat, which so far from being sinewy, is the most tender, juicy, and sapid. The use of every kind of vegetables is rigidly prohibited, such as turnips and carrots, which are said to be of difficult digestion; and potatoes, which are said to be too watery a food. This is philosophically cor- rect, except that potatoes are far from being a watery food, if of good qua- lity, and cooked as we have directed; but even so, they are not very fit for producing firm muscularity. Cab- bage, and every sort of salad, are greatly worse for affording nourish- ment. Stale bread is the only article of this species of food allowed. New bread is apt to swell on the stomach, and prevent digestion. Hot rolls would in a few days ruin the training of a fortnight. Biscuit, or bread toasted hard, without much brown- ing, we should prefer even to the best stale bread. The ancientAthletae used unleavened bread, and this is perhaps still better, though we fear few of our training men would relish it. With respect to biscuit, it is well known that people recovering from fever, and other exhausting diseases, sooner acquire strength with it than with bread, and sailors feel a sensible diminution of strength, when at any time they give up their biscuit, and live on bread. No kind of pies, puddings, hard dumplings, or pastry, are ever used ; and the trainers say one might as well take earthenware into the stomach, they are so very indigestible—an opinion in which we decidedly concur ; and nothing is a greater source of indigestions and surfeits in England, than the enor- mous consumption of indigestible articles of this description. Having given an ample detail of those articles of food which experience and observation have concurred in proving to be the most strengthening and nutritive, for those who are to be prepared for gymnastic exertions, as well as for those who have been en- feebled by disease, or from natural constitution—we shall next consi- der the equally important subject of dressing these aliments, so as best to retain and improve their nutritive properties. On this topic we can afford to be the more brief, since having already, under the heads of baking, broiling, boiling, roasting, frying, and stewing, furnished a state- ment of the comparative merits and advantages of these culinary pro- cesses, and entered as far into the science of the subject as the present state of knowledge can permit us; we must now be satisfied with the application of our principles to use- ful practice. As regards the mode of dressing food for men in training—all sub- stances, however nutritive in them- selves, are forbidden to be boiled, stewed, fried, or baked—even brasing is not permitted. All sowps, accord- ingly, such as ox-tail, beef-tea, mut- ton broth, mock turtle, and mulliga- tawny, are most strictly prohibited, as tending to drench the stomach, reduce the strength, and make the muscles soft and flabby; the only exception is, that when a purgative dose of salts has been taken, a little warm gruel is, properly enough, allowed to work off the physic, and as the first meal after, a little boiled mutton with broth. A s this, however, is a strong exception to the usual rule of diet, the trainers are very parti- cular about both the mutton and the broth; all the fat being carefully