254 PO PO heavy pudding, which is a favourite morsel with many, but requires the strongest digestive powers. The old prejudices that the flesh of capons is productive of the gout, and that of sparrows bringing on epilepsy, are too absurd to require refutation. POULTRY, METHOD OF Fx\TTENING. — The manner in which birds are fed, influences at once their fatness and their flavour. They seldom get very fat in a state of nature, any more than when domesticated, if allowed to go at large. The art of fattening poultry, consists in confining them, and sup- plying them with abundance of healthy food. Aquatic fowls, parti- cularly ducks and grouse, should be prevented from goinginto the water, not only because they never get fat when allowed to do so, bat because the}-acquire a rancid fishy taste from the food they usually pick up in such places. Fattening of fowls for the London market, constitutes an im- portant as well as a considerable branch of rural economy. They are cooped up in a place excluded from the light, and crammed with paste made of barley meal, mutton suet, and some treacle and coarse sugar, mixed with milk, and are found to be completely up in a fortnight. If kept longer, the fever that is brought on by this unnatural state of reple- tion, renders them red and unsale- able, and frequently kills them.* But the flesh of fowls brought to this state of artificial obesity, is never so well flavoured, and probably not so salubrious as those of the same species fattened in a more natural way; the great secret in having fine pullets is cleanliness and high keep- ing with the best corn. The process adopted in different parts of France to enlarge the liver of a goose, is described as follows, by Sonnini.f “The object of the * Agricultural Report of Berkshire, by William Mavor, L.L.D. 8vo. Lond. 1818. third method is to enlarge the liver. Nobody is ignorant of the endeavours of sensuality, to cause the whole vital forces to be determined towards this part of the animal, by giving it a kind of hepatic cachexy. In Alsace, the individual takes a lean goose, which he shuts up in a small box of wire, so tight that it cannot turn it. The bottom is furnished with a wide grating of rods, for the passages of the dung. In the fore part there is a hole, for the head, and below it a small trough is always kept full of water, in which some pieces of wood charcoal are left to steep. A bushel of maize is suffi- cient to feed it during a month, at the end of which time the goose is sufficiently fattened. A thirtieth part is soaked in water, each night, and crammed down its throat, night and morning. The rest of the time it drinks and guzzles in the water. Towards the twenty- second day, they mix with the maize some poppy oil, and at the end of the month, it is known by a lump of fat under each wing, or rather by the difficulty of breathing, that it is time to kill, or it will die of fat. The liver is found then weigh- ing from one to two pounds, and besides, the animal is excellent for the table, and furnishes during its roasting from three to five pounds of fat, which is used in the cookery of vegetables — of six geese, there are commonly only four (and these are the youngest) which answer the expectation of the fattener. They are kept in a cellar, or place with little light; and the Roman epicures, who prized their livers, had already observed, that darkness was favour- able to this kind of education, no doubt, because it prevents all dis- tractions, and directs the whole powers towards the digestive organs. The want of motion and the difficulty t A celebrated naturalist and tra- veller, a Frenchman by birth, though of Italian parents.