264 RA RA RABBITS.—Rabbits are either wild or tame ; the first kind are the most dainty and agreeable food, having a greater opportunity of feed- ing on sweet aromatic herbs, such as thyme, juniper and the like, which gives their flesh a richer and more pleasant flavour. They differ much in respect to their colour; some are white and black, others yellow and party-coloured. They are very nou- rishing and afford good food. When too young they are not so whole- some as when of a middling age and size; if they be too old, their flesh becomes dry, hard, and of difficult digestion. Rabbits are in better con- dition for the table in winter than in summer, because their flesh is then more tender and mellow; and agrees well with any age or constitution. Though a rabbit is in many re- spects like a hare, yet the flesh of the one differs somewhat from the other in taste: the rabbit moister, more tender, as well as more juicy. Rabbits to Choose and Carve.— See Poultry, fyc. RADISH (Raphanus Sativus, L.) —The radish is an annual, a native of China, and mentioned by Gerard, the herbalist, in 15S4. The leaves are rough, lyrate, or divided trans- versely into segments, of which the inferior less ones are more remote. In some varieties, the root is fleshy and fusiform ; in others, sub-globu- lar ; white within ; but black, purple, yellow or white, on the outside; the flowers pale violet, with large dark veins ; pods long with a sharp beak. Formerly the leaves were often boiled and eaten; but now the roots are chiefly employed. These are eaten raw in spring, summer, autumn, and winter. The young seedling leaves are often used with cresses and mus- tard, as small salad; and radish seed- pods, when of plump growth, but still young and green, are used to increase the variety of vegetable pickles, and are considered a toler- able substitute for capers. All the parts of a radish may be wholesome, though the root is only used as food ; they are pulled out of the earth in spring. Such as are tender, juicy, of a sharp pungent taste, easy to be broken, and not very thick, are the best. They agree in cold weather with phlegmatic and melancholy constitutions, provided they have a good stomach. They act upon the urinary organs, and expel gross substances connected there- with. The seeds of the radish are aperient, but if put alone into the mouth they excite nausea and vomit- ing. There is another species called horse-radish (Raphanus Cochlearia), which is used as a condiment to roast meat; and the infusion medicinally, as a stimulant. RAI SIN ( VitisVinifera).—Raisins are grapes prepared by drying them in the heat of the sun, or in the air, to fit them for keeping, and for some medicinal purposes. Raisins of the sun are a kind of raisins brought from Spain, of a reddish or bluish colour, seeded, and very agreeable to eat. There are various other sorts, deno- minated either from the place where they grow, or the kind of grape. The finest and best raisins are those called in some places Damascus raisins. These are distinguishable from the others by their largeness and figure, and wrinkled on the surface; soft and juicy within, near an inch long, and seem transparent, when held against a good light; they have a sweet, agreeable, and vinous taste. The common raisins are the fruit of several species of grapes, which are better or worse, according as they have been more or less carefully cured. The raisins of the sun, or jar