381 WA W A weight being always the same, under the mean pressure of temperature, it is employed for the comparative standard of specific gravity, &c. Distilled water is seldom employed to any extent in the preparation of food, or in manufactures, on account of the trouble of procuring it in large quantities; but for preparing a great number of medicines, and in almost every one of the nicer chemical pro- cesses that ai'e carried on in the liquid way, this water is an essential requisite. 2. Rain Water. — The next in purity to distilled water is that which has undergone a natural distillation from the earth, and is condensed in the form of rain. This is a water so nearly approaching to absolute purity as probably to be equal to distilled water, for every purpose, except in the nicer chemical experiments. The foreign contents of rain water appear to vary, according to the state of the air through which it falls. The he- terogeneous atmosphere of a smoky town will give some impregnation to rain, as it passes through, and this, though it may not at once be percep- tible, on chemical examination, will nevertheless render it liable to spon- taneous change, and hence rain water, if long kept, especially in hot climates, acquires a strong smell, becomes full of animalcules, and is in some degree putrid. The specific gravity of rain water is so nearly the same as that of distilled water, that it requires the most delicate instru- ments to detect the difference. Rain that falls in towns acquires a small quantity of the sulphate of lime and calcareous matter, from the mortar and plaster of the houses. 3. Ice and Snow Water are equal to rain water in purity, and when fresh melted, contain no air, which is expelled during freezing. In cold climates, and in high latitudes, thawed snow forms the constant drink of the inhabitants during winter, and the vast masses of ice which float on the Polar seas, afford an abundant supply to the mariner. It is well known, that in a weak brine, exposed to a moderate freezing cold, it is only the watery part that congeals, leaving the unfrozen liquor proportionably stronger of the salt. The same happens with a dilute solution of vegetable acids, with fer- mented liquors and the like, and advantage is taken of this property to reduce the saline part to a more concentrated form. Snow water has always lain under the imputation of occasioning those strumous swellings in the neck, which deform many of the inhabitants of the Alpine valleys, which with us are called Derbyshire necks, although this opinion appears in some measure to be controverted, in consequence of the disease being known to occur in places where ice and snow are never seen, as well as from the fact of its being quite unknown in Chili and in Thibet, though the rivers of those countries are chiefly supplied by the melting of the snow, with which the moun- tains are covered. 4. Spring Water. — Under this comprehensive class are included all waters that spring from some depth beneath the soil, and are used at the fountain head, or, at least, before they have run any considerable dis- tance exposed to the air. It is ob- vious that spring water will be as various in its contents, as the sub- stances that compose the soil through which it flows. When the ingre- dients are not such as to give any peculiar medical or sensible proper- ties, and the water is used for com- mon purposes, it is distinguished as a hard or soft spring, sweet or brackish, clear or turbid, &c. Ordi- nary springs insensibly pass into mineral springs, as their foreign con- tents become more notable or un- common ; though sometimes waters have acquired great medical reputa- tion from mere purity. By far the greater number of springs are cold;