FO FO 133 Portugal is very dark, and soon be- comes putrid, perhaps from the ani- mal not bleeding freely, in conse- quence of the action of the heart being inteiTupted before the vessels of the neck are divided. It seems, therefore, after all, to be best to bleed the animal to death directly, after the manner of the Jew butchers. The Mosaic law so imperiously prohibits the eating of blood, that the Talmud contains a body of regulations con- cerning the killing of animals; that the Jews, as a point of religion, will not eat the flesh of any animal not killed by a butcher of their own per- suasion. Their method of depriving the animal of life, is to tie its four feet together, thus bringing it to the ground, and turning its bead back to cut the throat at once down to the bone, with a long, very sharp, and not pointed knife, thereby dividing all the large vessels of the neck. In this manner the blood is quickly and completely discharged. The effect of this method is so obvious, that some Christians will eat no meat but what has been killed by a Jew butcher. Sheep, lambs, calves, and pigs, are all killed by dividing at once the large blood vessels of the neck. Ani- mals killed accidentally, that is, by hanging, drowning, falls, ravenous beasts, or frozen to death, are not absolutely unwholesome. In fact, they differ from those more metho- dically killed, in not being blooded; which is also the case with animals that are snared, and those killed by hounds. Animals that die natural deaths ought not to be eaten; as there are many undeniable instances of disease having been the conse- quence. Previous to killing animals, they are generally made to undergo some preparation. They are usually kept without food for some time, for were they slaughtered with full stomachs, their flesh, it is thought, would not keep well. Oxen are made to fast two or three days; smaller animals a day; but it is evident that the practice should not be carried too far, as an opposite effect might be produced by the animal falling off, or getting feverish. In order to have white veal, it is generally understood that the calf is repeatedly and lai’gely bled before it is killed. Such prac- tice, however, does not appear to be general; the feeders, themselves, deny it, and it is not confessed by the butchers; consequently, we are not enabled to say what its effects would be; but Dr. Lister states, that nothing contributes more to white- ness and tenderness of the flesh of calves, than often bleeding them, by which means the colouring matter of the blood is exhausted, leaving be- hind nothing but colourless serum. A method of preparation still more cruel, used to be practised, though illegal, and nearly, if not entirely, obsolete, with regard to the bull. By some old municipal laws, no butcher was permitted to offer or expose any bull-beef for sale, unless it had pre- viously been baited. The reason of this probably was, that baiting the animal had the effect of rendering the flesh or muscular fibre much more tender; for it is an universal law of the animal economy, that, when animals have undergone ex- cessive fatigue immediately before death, or have suffered from a lin- gering death, their flesh, though it becomes sooner rigid, also becomes sooner tender, than when suddenly deprived of life in a state of health. The flesh of hunted animals is sooner tender, and sooner spoils, and it is upon this principle, that the quality of pigs’ flesh could be improved by the horrid cruelty of whipping them to death, said to be practised by the Germans. (Vide, “Reserches Patho- logiques de Physiologie et de Chimie ParP. N.Nyster. 8vo. Paris. 1811). Another part of the same recipe to roast a pig, wild-boar fashion, consists in making the animal swallow, some hours before killing it, a quantity