398 WI WI sequence; they inebriate and pro- duce headach, but are not poisonous. If there be sugar of lead in wine, it may readily be detected by any kind of sulphuret soluble in water; there will be a precipitate of a brown or black powder; the acid of the wine unites to the alkali of the sul- phuret, and the sulphur uniting to the oxide of lead, forms this black powder. If no lead be present, a precipitate of a white powder will ensue ; here the precipitate of the sulphur, the acid of the wine, com- bining with the alkali of the sul- phuret. If there he copper or iron in wine, there will also be a preci- pitate of a black powder; but the wine impregnated with copper will be discoverable by the taste; and iron is not dangerous. To know if the precipitate be lead, if it he melted on charcoal, it will then run into globules. Alum may be discovered by pouring on it a little strontia or barytes. If there be alum, there will be a precipitation on the sides of the glass, which will be close like * clay. For the detection of lead in wines, a test invented by Dr. Hahne- man, and known by the name of Hahneman’s wine test, is recom- mended for its delicacy. It is pre- pared by putting together into a small phial, sixteen grains of sul- phuret of lime, prepared in the dry way, and twenty grains of cream of tartar. The phial is to be filled with water, well corked, and occasionally shaken for the space of ten minutes. When the powder has subsided, de- cant the clear liquor, and preserve it in a well-stopped bottle for use. This liquor, when fresh prepared, detects the presence of lead by a dai-k coloured precipitate.—Henry's Che- mistry, vol. ii, p. 275. Wine may also be sophisticated by alcohol, especially in taverns, where the additions are, to one hogshead of port, half a hogshead of cider to give it bulk; and to give it strength and to keep it, one third of English spirit; alum also is added, to give it rough- ness, and cochineal, as already ob- served, to colour it. In this con- dition it is more hurtful than genuine wine, in consequence of the brandy not entirely incorporating with the wine, nor combining chemically with it, as alcohol, by fermentation. To know if the spirit is added after the wine is made :— 1. The spirit may easily be had by distillation at a low temperature. 2. Pour some red wine that is suspected into a vessel with a long neck, and into another genuine wine; then add perfectly dry potash sufficient to saturate them; when the wine to which the spirit was added will have alcohol swimming at the top, while the other will not. Alcohol may be obtained from every wine by distillation, and an acid can be discovered by a paper dyed blue with litmus: but the pro- portions of these ingredients are very different. The quantity of alcohol makes them more or less stimulant; but the. strong wines, as port, Ma- deira, and sherry, yield much more alcohol than they naturally possess, as foreign merchants are obliged to raise them by pure alcohol to the English standard before they leave their country. Another difference is, that the acid in some is very abundant, as in Rhenish, claret, hock &c. Again, they differ in their flavour according to their quantity of saccharine matter. Some dry, strong wines have all their saccha- rine matter turned into alcohol; but there are many where the saccharine matter in the juice is so excessive, that as soon as a small part of it is converted into alcohol, it puts a stop to the vinous fermentation ; nor is this yet properly explained-—thus, in Tokay, Cape wine, and some others. Some have an astringent property, as port; still very often this property is superadded; but port is naturally more astringent. For the individual history of the