TR 354 TR ingly throws off the greasy load into every bye corner of the body, some- times between the muscles, but oftener under the skin, or about the stomach. Fat then, or corpulence, is clearly a disease of repletion and indolence, for which exercise is the sovereign specific cure. For the purpose, say Captain Barclay and Mr. Jackson, of gaining strength, of diminishing and thinning the blood, and of improving the wind, it will be necessary for the person under training to begin his exercise early in the morning: in summer not later than five, and in winter as soon as the day dawns. A run, or jog-trot, of three miles twice a day, is a common task for pedestrian training, for other pur- poses less than this will suffice. If this produce much perspiration, he must, to prevent rheumatism, be carefully rubbed dry as soon as he comes home, lying down on a couch till an assistant does this, and gra- dually puts on his clothes, one limb after another, on the dried parts, and then does not go out again till com- pletely cool. Itisoneofthe standing rules of training, that perspiration never weakens the body when pro- duced by exercise; but it always does so when it is produced by sweating drugs, hot slops, or any other unnatural method. The rea- sons of this will appear manifest from what has just been said with respect to the stream of the blood, and from what we have so often ob- served in this publication respecting the want of nourishment in the strongest soups. An hour after breakfast, the exercises are selected from manly sports, such as quoits, cricket, foot-ball, fencing, and spar- ring. Fives, we should reckon a good exercise, particularly if played, as in Scotland, with the bare hand, without battledores, in which case the ball must, of course, be softer and rather lighter. The more cheerful the exercise is, the better it will prove, as any thing which dulls or deadens the animal spirits is very injurious to training. A fit of low spirits will ruin, in a single day, the training of a whole week; and we should, therefore, prefer any light game, such as golf, which requires walking, and at the same time keeps the mind alive, to simply walking without any object but exercise. Short shooting excursions we should also recommend on the same prin- ciple, wherever it shall be conve- nient. Fishing is too inactive and raw an exercise, but gardening, and particularly digging, we shouldhighly recommend. So well aware were the more ancient trainers of keeping the mind amused while the body was exercised, that music and dancing were among their principal exercises. Dancing is still recommended by our modern trainers, but not insisted on. Another indispensable rule in training is, that if the person trained becomes very much and rapidly thinner or feverish, his exercise must be diminished. This, however, we should say, ought to be kept from the knowledge of the persons themselves; for as training will, in all cases, make a man thinner, the propensity to in- dolence would soon discover that so much exercise might be dispensed with, and give rise to comparative idleness, to the entire loss of time and strength. No reading, writing, cards, nor other sedentary employ- ment or amusement is permitted, as this tends to drive the blood to the head, and produce stupor, weight, or giddiness, and impairs digestion and strength. In the article Sleep, which may be consulted, we have laid down certain rules; and here it may not be irrelevant to notice this func- tion as regards training. It is impossible to determine to a mi- nute the proper quantity of sleep necessary for every individual, as some can do with nearly half of what is indispensable to others. It