PO 242 PL These also possess medicinal proper- ties, being nourishing and attenu- ating. Prunes or dried plums are of peculiar service to costive habits, affording an agreeable and nutritive food ; but as they are apt to produce flatulency, it would be advisable to eat them either when the stomach is empty, or for dinner, without mixing them with other aliment. Under this limitation, they are both aperient and cooling, and agree with almost every constitution ; but plums eaten fresh, and not quite ripe, especially in large quantities, are very apt to occasion looseness, colics, and other maladies of the stomach and intes- tines. The larger sort of plum are in general more dangerous, in this respect, than the small ones, as they, particularly the green and yellow kind, are seldom allowed to attain their full degree of maturity. There are several varieties * of plum trees. The best are esteemed a delicious dessert fruit; and the others are used in pies, tarts, con- serves, and sweetmeats. A whole- some wine is also occasionally made from them, with or without other fruits and ingredients. “ Plums,” observes Professor Martin, “when sufficiently ripe, and taken in mo- derate quantity, are not unwhole- some; but in an un mature state, they are more liable to produce colicky pains, diarrhoea or cholera, than any other fruit of this class. Considered medicinally they are emollient, cooling and laxative, es- pecially the French prunes, which are peculiarly useful in costive habits. The wood of the plum is used in turnery, cabinet work, and in mak- ing musical instruments. The French prunes and damsons are the most emollient and laxative; they are * “ Tusser enumerates ten; Pinkinson sixty ; Miller, only thirty sorts. In the Luxemberg Cantaloupe are sixty eight; nearly a hundred names are to be found in the Catalogue of our nurserymen.”— Loudon, p. 722. often taken by themselves to gently move the belly, where there is a tendency to inflammation. Decoctions of them afford a useful basis for laxa- tive or purgative mixtures, and the pulp in substance for electuaries. The damson is only a variety, which when perfectly ripe, affords a whole- some article for pies, tarts, &c. POELE.—A light braise for white meats. The difference between this and the braise is, that in the former the meat, or whatever it may be, need not be so much done as in the latter. POISONS.—The ancients con- sidered every thing as poisonous that produced malignant symptoms, and attacked directly what we style the vital principle. Thus, miasma was with them a poison, and their reme- dies or antidotes were accordingly directed to the support and cherishing of the vital heat, and to increase action throughout the body. Hence also the name of Alexepharmics, and the belief of driving out poison by transpiration. On the other hand, the common idea of a poison by the moderns is, that it is a substance which, on being applied in one way or other to the human body, is capa- ble of destroying the action of the vital functions, or of placing the solids and fluids in a situation that prevents the continuance of life. Dr. Mead’s definition of poison in- cludes every substance which, in small doses, can produce great changes on the living body. This is evidently too extensive, since it embraces many articles that are not regarded as poisons, and excludes others that are really so. Thus a small quantity of bread and water has produced great changes; whilst opium or corrosive sublimate has been taken in large quantities, with- out injurious effects. The definition given by Foder6, although liable to criticism, is probably as unexcep- tionable as any that has yet been offered. He considers poisons to