TO TO 342 strengthens the brain, and attenuates and rarities the viscous humours. It is good in asthmas, creates an appetite, assists digestion, expels wind, and resists poison. Its too fre- quent use puts the humour into too violent an agitation. It is good in cold weather, for old people,for phlegmatic habits, and weak stomachs. Wild thyme, or the common thyme, contains less essential oil, and is much milder than the garden thyme. Although neglected, it has considerable powers as a gentle sti- mulant and diaphoretic. It recovers the head-ach from intoxication.— Half an ounce of the leaves may be infused in eight ounces of water, and taken during twenty-four hours. Thyme possesses nearly the same virtues as marjoram, and produces the same effects. The powers as- cribed to this herb by the old physi- cians are, that it strengthens the brain, and attenuates and rarities the viscous humours. It is good in asthma; creates an appetite; assists digestion; expels wind, and resists poison. Its too frequent use, say they, puts the humours into too violent agitation. It is good in cold weather for old people, for phleg- matic habits, and weak stomachs. The young leaves and tops of the lemon thyme (T. Citriodorus, P. S.) are used in soups, stuffings, and sauces. For these purposes, the broad-leaved common is generally preferred; but the flavour of the yellow is much liked in peculiar dishes. TOBACCO.—This plant was not known in Europe till after the disco- very of America by the Spaniards, and was first imported about the year 1560. It received its name from Tobacco, a province of Yucatan, in New Spain, North America. It was brought into England in the reign of Q. Elizabeth, and it is supposed, either by Sir Francis Drake or Sir Walter Raleigh. The leaves of tobacco have a strong disagreeable smell, a very burning taste : distilled in a retort, without addition, they yield an acid, empy- reumatic, poisonous oil. They give out them acrid matter both to water and spirit, but most perfectly to the latter. The several sorts of tobacco imported from abroad are stronger in taste than that of our own growth, and the extracts made from them much more fiery, but in less quan- tity. Taken internally, even in a small dose, or decoctions used of it as a clyster (as in strangulated her- nia) tobacco proves violently emetic and cathartic, occasions extreme anxiety, vertigoes, stupors, and dis- orders of the senses. In all cases where it is used medicinally much caution is necessary. The most fre- quent adoption is by way of snuff, as a sternutatory, or as a masticatory, by chewing it in the mouth, or by smoking it in a pipe.—See Smoking, and Snuff. Armurath IV., emperor of the Turks, the grand duke of Muscovy, and the emperor of Persia, prohibited the use of tobacco in their states: and our James I. wrote a treatise ex- pressly against it, entitled “ A Coun- terblaste to Tobacco.” By a Bull of Pope Urban VIII. such are ex- communicated as take tobacco in churches. The smoke of tobacco received by the anus is said to be of singular effi- cacy in obstinate constipations of the bowels. Hoffman observes that horses have often been relieved by this re- medy, but in the human subject it has been rarely tided; and on the same authority some of the common people who laboured under excruciat- ing pains of the intestines, have been freed in an instant from all pain by swallowing the smoke. Both the de- coctions and the smoke are not unfre- quently injected in cases of incar- cerated hernia, and often with suc- cess. The smoke thus applied is recommended as one ol the principal means for the revival of persons ap-