CO CR, 86 whites of eggs, the vomiting and epigastric pains ceased; the patient fell asleep, and awoke quite well.— Orjila, vol. ii. p. 466. Chemical Proofs of the Existence of Verdigris. a. Sulphuric acid poured on the verdigris, in powder, decomposes it with effervescence, and vapours of acetic acid are disengaged. But it must he recollected that no such effect is produced with natural verdi- gris (the carbonate of copper). In this case acetic acid should be poured upon it, and the subsequent tests applied. b. Sulphuretted hydrogen decom- poses it, and precipitates a black sul- phuret of copper. c. A clear plate of iron immersed in the solution, becomes covered in a few hours with a portion of the cop- per, and the blue colour of the solu- tion grows first green and then red. d. Ammonia gives a blue precipi- tate, but if added in excess, the pre- cipitate re-dissolves, and the liquor is of a beautiful blue colour. e. Chromate of potash gives a yel- low precipitate. /. If the suspected substance be in powder, it should be mixed with charcoal, and heated to redness in an earthen crucible. Metallic copper will be formed. The same process is pro- per, when the fluid is combined with substances which prevent the action of tests. Evaporate it to dryness, and then calcine with charcoal. There are various other tests for the detec- tion of this substance, either in a fluid or solid state, which may be consulted by the curious, in the Toxi- cological writers, and particularly Orfila. g. The ferro-cyanate of potash has long been used as a test for iron and copper in solution, and it is hardly possible to imagine any thing more sensible than its indications. M. Brandenburg, however, recommends as superior to it, the ferro-cyanate of ammonia (prussiate of ammonia and iron). It should be of a fine yellow colour. The acetate, sulphate, muriate, ni- trate, and ammoniaret of copper, are all poisonous to the human system, and they are to be detected by most of the tests already enumerated, but most decisively by the reduction of the metals; so also with coppery wine or vinegar. The tests here, how- ever, are uncertain; and the only mode left, is to evaporate the preci- pitate to dryness, and calcine the re- sidue in order to obtain metallic cop- per. If there be copper or iron in wine, there will be a black powder thrown down by Hahneman’s test; but the wine impregnated with cop- per will be discoverable by the taste ; and iron is not dangerous.—See Wine Tests. CORIANDER. (Coriandrum Sa- tivum ).—An umbelliferous plant, a native of the south of Europe; found wild about Ipswich, and in some parts of Essex, though Dr. Smith does not consider it indigenous. The seeds of the coriander are imported for the use of the brewer, as well as for medicinal purposes; their smell, when fresh, is strong and disagree- able, but by drying becomes suffi- ciently grateful. The plant is found wild in this country, but is a doubtful native. The seeds are stomachic and carminative, but are seldom used alone, but as a corrective addition to senna and other active purgatives.— See Caraways. COURONNE, EN. (En Cou- ronne).—To serve up any prescribed articles on a dish in the form of a crown. COURT, or SHORT, (To Stew). To reduce a sauce very thick. CRAB.—The crab is an animal found equally in fresh and salt water, upon land and in the ocean. In shape it differs much from the lobster, but entirely resembles it in confor- mation. The tail in this animal is not so apparent as in the former, being a broad flap, that seems to