GL GL 151 “ In what state, it may be asked, are the minds and understandings of sensualists and epicures, compared with that serenity and complacency of soul which distinguish the mild and temperate liver? they are despicable —nay, contemptible in the lowest degree. Their reason lies buried under an incumbent load of surfeit- ing and gluttony; their understand- ings are totally eclipsed by the dark, gross shadow of intervening sense, and all their mental and intellectual powers are miserable, weak, and puny. And as the mind of the epi- cure and the sensualist, habitually overcharged with surfeiting and lux- ury, is in this despicable state with regard to its understanding, so the body most miserably suffers. The weight of excess soon breaks the strings of this exquisite instrument. All is discord. The body languishes, while appetite not unfrequently rages; and gout, palsy, asthma, con- sumption, or apoplexy, frequently ter- minate what excess began.—Burton. Mankind, in general, since the im- provement in cookery, eat, says Dr. Franklin, about twice as much as nature requires. Suppers are not bad if we have not dined; but rest- less nights naturally follow hearty suppers after full dinners. Indeed, as there is a difference in the consti- tutions, some rest well after these meals: it costs them only a frightful dream and an apoplexy, after which •they sleep till doomsday. Nothing, continues the doctor, is more com- mon in the newspapers, than in- stances of people, who, after eating a hearty supper, are found dead in bed in the morning. “ I avoid,” said Mr. Pennant, “ the meal of excess— a supper; and my soul rises with vigour to its employs; and I trust, (he adds) does not disappoint the end of its Creator.” “ The sleep of the labouring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much; but the abund- ance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep.”—Ecclesiasticus v. 12. Couch’d on his straw, and fancy-free. He sleeps like careless infancy.—Scott. The best food for a man to live upon is that which is simple and nou- rishing, without acrimony; and the principal rule to be observed with regard to food in general, is to eat and drink wholesome things in a proper quantity. As relates to quan- tity, the rule is, to take just such a proportion as will be sufficient to support and nourish him, but not so much as will overload the stomach, and render digestion difficult. Yet, in this measure also, every indivi- dual has a sure guide, if he will be directed by a natural and not by a depraved appetite; for whenever he may have eaten of any good food, to the extent required by his appetite, and leaves off before his stomach is cloyed, or finishes his meal with some relish for more, he has eaten a proper quantity. The quantity, in- deed, as well as the solidity of a man’s aliment ought to bear a just proportion to the strength of his constitution, and to the exercise he uses; for young, strong, labouring people will turn to good chyle any kind of common food in use; and they can digest with ease a quan- tity that would oppress or destroy the delicate or sedentary; and great care should be observed in not in- dulging too freely in a discordant variety of aliments at the same meal. But that a man may not be de- ceived, and that he may be satisfied that he has committed no excess,'— if immediately after dinner he can write, or walk, or go about his ordi- nary or any other business with pleasure; if after a supper his sleep be neither disturbed nor diminished by what he has eaten or drunk; and if he has no head-ache the next morning, nor any uncommon hawk- ing or spitting, or a bad taste in his mouth, but rises at his usual hour, refreshed and cheerful, he may then justly conclude that his diet has been well regulated, and that he has not