VI INTRODUCTION. of nature’s hidden treasures, and of penetrating still farther into her won- derful and mysterious recesses ? When for a moment we reflect on the natural strength of the human frame, without regard to external agents, one is almost induced to conclude that it w'as intended for a much longer duration than it really is; the firm bony basis on which the muscles act, and transport us from place to place, by which we can protect ourselves from extreme force; the curious system of vessels, so intricately, yet harmoniously interwoven, for giving and depositing nourishment, and supplying that waste which the continued actions of the parts occasion—the elimination of what is useless, by the excretory chan- nels—the power of resisting heat and cold to a certain degree—the wonderful ingenuity adapted for defence—the organs of sense and sensation, to protect our lives by immediately informing us of danger, either externally or inter- nally : still, notwithstanding all this compactness of structure, in which the wisdom of the Divine architect is so pre-eminently visible, in its most minute parts, seldom two or three years pass over without some derangement. On every hand the seeds of disease are met with; the very things on which our existence seems to depend, appear to undermine our health, by being altered or destroyed in their properties; for instance, the air we breathe, changes of temperature, food, exercise—all tend to induce tone, or its opposite, atony or want of tone, in the system. Nature has attached Pleasure to Want; but one of those guides leads, for the most part, farther than the other. Reason was given to man, to make him social; but when once he has yielded to the seductive influence of pleasure, he is not very liable to be correct in the measure of his reason—he has then quitted the “ tree of lifeand this once done, he is no longer permitted to cull its fruits. The emblems of Egypt, where Moses had been brought up and instructed, and the fables of Greece, present us with the same origins, and always the most simple vegetable regimen, characteristic of the first ages of the world. It was, in fine, the produce of the earth, in its natural state, that supplied its inhabitants with both food and sauce. Moderate exercise, wholesome, odoriferous air, insured health and strength, which, with minds undistracted by ambition, furnished that appetite which, to the luxurious liver and debauchee, is so constantly refused. When Adam lost his innocence, he lost also the benefit of the tree of life; but the same common food was continued after his transgression which he had used before it; yet this was strictly conformable with divine com- mand, “ and thou shalt eat of the herb of the field,” (Gen. iii. 18). Happily, however, by his own intelligence, under the direction of Providence, he and his family soon became acquainted with husbandry, which supplied them with the necessaries of life, in a plain, wholesome, and comfortable manner. Hence the great longevity for which the earlier inhabitants of the world were so remarkable. It was not so with the first inhabitants of Greece, who, having