4 AL AL equal parts of water, it forms proof spirits. British spirit is a mixture of it with essential oils &c., and the com- mon people prefer it to good spirit! hence distillers find, that spirit dis- tilled from sugar has not so quick a sale as that from malt. As regards the bad effects from the abuse of spirits, they are very numerous, and we consequently see their consequences. The person first loses his appetite; to remove the con- sequent langour the dose is increased, and at length all appetite is lost; the liver becomes sympathetically dis- eased; no bile is secreted; the me- senteric glands swell, and general induced debility ensues. The lungs lose their strength, asthma, and short- ness of breath, follow, with sometimes palsy: at last there is a confirmed asthma or dropsy, on the gin-cough, which constitutes true pulmonarycon- sumption, in which the tubercles sup- purate very rapidly. These effects are often witnessed in porters, coach- men, soldiers, &c. At Petersburgh, a physician calculated that 635 die in ten months from this cause only. Externally applied, alcohol causes all the vessels to contract: if it be confined to the skin it causes a glow; but if not confined, and allowed to evaporate, the evaporation produces cold. Given internally, if the dose be too large, it kills like lightning, by exhausting the irritability, so that the blood does not coagulate, and the muscles remain flaccid. In cases of great langour, nervous weakness and spasms, where aether is proper, one to two drachms of alcohol will have a good effect. The alcohol of the ‘ London Phar- macopoeia,’ is directed to be made as follows:—Take of rectified spirit, one gallon ; subcarbonate of potass, three pounds; add a pound of the subcarbonate of potass, previously heated to 300°, to the spirit, and macerate for twenty-four hours, fre- quently stirring them; then pour off the spirit, and add to it the rest of the subcarbonate of potass heated to the same degree. Lastly, with the aid of a warm bath, let the alcohol distil once : keep it in a well stopped bottle. The specific gravity of al- cohol is to the specific gravity of distilled water, as 815 to 1000. To obtain pure alcohol, Rouelle recom- mends to draw off half the spirit in a water bath; to rectify this twice more, drawing off two-thirds each time; to add water to this alcohol, which will turn it milky, by separat- ing the essential oil remaining in it; to distil the spirit from this water; and, finally, to rectify it by one more distillation. ALKALIES.—The word allcale is of Arabian origin, and signifies the dregs of bitterness. The alkalies have an acrid and urinous taste; they change the blue juices of vegetables to a green colour, and the yellow to a brown,* and liave the property of rendering oils mixible with water. They are incombustible, but may be rendered volatile by great heat; they are soluble in water, form various salts in combination with acids, f and act as powerful caustics when applied to the flesh of animals. There are three alkalies ; two of which, potass and soda, are called tlie fixed, because they will endure a great heat and still remain unchanged; the third, the vo- latile alkali. The alkalies are com- pound bodies. Potass is chiefly pro- cured by lixiviation from the ashes of burnt wood, and other vegetable substances; but as it exists in mi- nerals and earths, there is reason to • Although the effect of alkalies on the blue juices of vegetables is almost universal, we know of one exception—■ namely, tincture of litmus and litmus paper, which are always rendered more intensely blue by the addition of alka- lies. f Potass becomes comparatively mild by its union with carbonic acid; and the most caustic soda, if united to cor- rosive muriatic acid, forms the mild salt used at our tables.