FI FI 122 on copper banks. Tliis, however, was abandoned, as, on chemical ex- amination, a portion of the argilla- ceous stone of Antiqua was found not to contain any; but a precipi- tate was obtained, possessing the qualities of sulphate of Barytes. Dr. Burrows, who has investigated this question with considerable abi- lity, is of opinion that the poison does not exist in the skin, or in the stomach and intestinal canal, or in the liver and gall-bladder exclusively, although there is no doubt that per- sons have been poisoned from eating these various parts. It pervades the whole substance of the fish; and this is abundantly proved by the state- ments of Dr. Chisholm, and the nu- merous authorities adduced by him. As to its origin, he discusses the cupreous theory of Dr. Chisholm, and shews the great improbability of the metal being held in solution in the sea-water. The fact, also, that land-crabs occasionally produce simi- lar symptoms is further urged against this opinion. The idea that other substances, taken as food, may be the cause of their poisonous nature, is shewn to be unfounded. He con- cludes with advancing and establish- ing the belief, that a morbid change takes place in the system of the fish: and this is particularly to be ex- pected in those taken from the .tro- pical seas, when they are immediately exposed to a high temperature, putre- faction must soon ensue. The Company of Fishmongers, as well as other persons concerned in supplying the city of London with fish, were anciently under the imme- diate direction of the court of lord mayor and aldermen, to whom this power was confirmed by an act of parliament, in the 7th of Richard II., in the year 1384; at which time the dealers in fish consisted of two com- munities, as above stated, namely, the stock-fishmongers and the salt-fish- mongers ; and both of them had no less than six halls ; two in Thames- street, two in New Fish-street, and two in Old Fish-street; and were moreover in such high reputation for valuable members, that six lord mayors were chosen out of them in twenty-four years. Among the ancient statutes of the fishmongers of London, as they are taken from a book in the chamber of London, are the following:— Dicunt homines de Halimato, &c. The men of the halimote* say, that they ought to have two Laghdmotes\ in the year, one on the feast of St. Martin, and the other in Lent; and all fishermen and those of the hali- mote ought to be there, and he that fails, forfeits 2d. Moreover, it ought to be forbidden in that halimote, that no fishmonger buy a fresh fish before mass at the chapel upon the bridge be celebrated, or at the church of St. Magnus. They say, also, that the said fish- ermen must sell fresh fish after mass, and salt fish after prime. That no fishmonger ought to go to buy fish beyond the bounds ap- pointed : and these are the bounds— the chapel upon the bridge, Bay- nard’s Castle, and Jordan’s Key, un- less the fish be set to sell, as they are at Berkynes, Northjlete, Hartford, and in some other markets. None to buy fish in any boat, urn less brought thence to land. *** On a complaint once made of this company, against one of their trade for forestalling fish, letters were issued by the king to the mayor and sheriffs of London to remedy the ag- gression. The fishmongers, in their hall, have a handsome coat of arms of England, erected there to the honour of King William III., with the fol- lowing inscription:— “ Augustissimo, potentissimo, et * A court baron; the meetings of a tenant, or a hall of a manor. f Prom laga, Sax., the law; two law- ful halimates, or courts, &c.