RE RH 2 66 REFRIGERANT.—That which allays the heat of the body or of the blood. REGIMEN.—A term employed in medicine to express the plan or regulation of the diet.—See Aliment, Diet. RESPIRATION. —The act of breathing. In respiration, the air is received into the lungs by the en- largement of the cavity of the chest. The power which effects this enlarge- ment, in common, by inspiration, is the diaphragm ; but when it is move difficult, the intercostal muscles and the small pectoral muscle assist. The blood of the pulmonary artery being exposed to the influence of the air in the lungs, is converted from a dark colour into a florid red; it is considered to be decarbonised, that is, carbon is emitted, which, combin- ing with the oxygen of the inspired air, forms carbonic acid; a watery vapour is likewise evolved. Others think that oxygen is absorbed, and that carbonic acid, already formed in the blood, is evolved. When the blood has been properly acted upon, the inspiratory muscles relax, while the abdominal muscles, pressing the viscera upwards against the dia- phragm, diminish the cavity of the chest, and then expel the air. Respiration may be obstructed from various causes, seated either in the lungs themselves or the sur- rounding parts. But from whatever cause this obstruction may arise, it undoubtedly produces all those dis- eases which proceed from an inter- rupted circulation. The lungs them- selves also being at length com- pressed, and not suffered sufficiently to dilate, cannot throw off the vapour which arises from them; hence, they are frequently oppressed with mois- ture. At the same time they are irritated, so that a greater quantity of mucus, and that of a thicker kind than usual, is secreted; by which means the passages through which the air enters them, are stopped up, till a violent cough at length throws off the load. There are other dis- orders also of the respiration, such as cough and sneezing, which, though at first sight they may seem very dangerous, are not destitute of use, and may even be reckoned among the most salutary attempts of nature to relieve the patient. Often, however, they are attended with dan- ger, orvery great uneasiness; namely, they are either too violent or attended with pain. It is necessary, never- theless, for a physician to know the nature, causes, and effects of these, that he may be enabled to promote them when necessary, and to stop them when they may be hurtful or useless. RHUBARB.—{Rheum, L.). Of rhubarb there are three species in cultivation: the rhaponticum, hybri- dum, and palmalitm, all perennials. The first is a native of Asia, and was introduced in 1573. The leaves are blunt and smooth, veins redish, some- what hairy underneath ; petioles grooved above, and rounded at the edge. This species (the rheum pal- matum) has been longest in cultiva- tion. The second (R. hybridum L.) is also a native of Asia, introduced in 1778. The leaves are large, some- what cordate, smooth, and of a light . green. When under good cultivation, they often measure four or five feet in length, the foot-stalk included. This sort was first introduced as a culinary rhubarb by Dickson, V. P. H. S. about twenty years ago, and is esteemed more succulent than the rhapontic. The palmatum (R. pal- matum. L.) is a native of Tartary, distinguished from all the others by its elegant palmate leaves. It has been known in this country since 1758, and is generally considered as the true Turkey or Russian rhubarb. The two first species of rhubarb are cultivated entirely, and the third in gardens principally, for the pe- tioles of the root leaves, which are peeled, cut down, and formed into