ou 222 OD a continued howling. “Whilst I lived at Roper’s” (vide Arts of Copenha- gen), says a writer, “ which was seven years, I took notice of a little dog of a chestnut colour, that very often hoded the death of sick per- sons, without being once, for aught I conld learn, mistaken. Every time he barked at night under the win- dows of any one whose sickness did not even appear dangerous, it hap- pened infallibly that the sick person died that week. I knew, also, a young man that had been bitten by a mad dog, who could distinguish his friends at a considerable distance by the smell, before he could even distinguish them by the sight. A lady of my acquaintance (continues the same author) had a favourite monkey, and the monkey in return to the kindness of his mistress was so fond of her, that he would scarce ever leave her. But his admirable and nice smell, in distinguishing contagious distempers, was, no doubt, the cause of shewing a different in- clination. The measles became epi- demical in the country, the lady fell sick of them, and some days before, when there was no indication of sickness, the monkey abandoned his mistress, and would not appear in her chamber, as if by the acuteness of his smell he had been sensible she would soon sicken: as soon, how- ever, as she recovered, he return- ed to her with all his accustomed familiarity. Some time after the lady had a slight fever, but with- out any appearance of malignity. The monkey remained with her as a constant companion, and seemed to have a thorough knowledge of the difference of distempers. His pre- sence, also, in the last conjunc- ture, might have been of advantage to his mistress, if it be true, as it is said, that the flesh of the monkey is a good febrifuge to the lion.” This relation is concluded with another account of the surprising influence of odours upon animals—“ Being at Rome, and having engaged with other gentlemen to take a journey to Naples, we all set out together, to the number of thirty-two, on horse- back, that, by being thus united in a body, we might be in a better state of defence against a number of assas- sins and banditti who infested the high roads. On the third day of our journey one of the horses of the troop was so fatigued, that he could scarce keep pace with the rest, and some- times could not be got forward. His rider was at a loss to account for this, when all of a sudden his horse took heart; but some time after- ward falling into his former lassitude, the rider was again brought into the same dilemma. Surprised at this alternative of strength and weak- ness, and endeavouring to know the cause of it, he observed, at last, that his horse went on very well when he followed a mare on which one of the gentlemen rode, but that he imme- diately became spent and tired at a distance from her. After this ob- servation he begged the gentleman not to leave him; and his horse, in this manner, animated by the smell that exhaled from the other, carried him with as much spirit as he could wish, to the end of the journey with the rest of the company.” Under odours may be ranked what are termed aerial poisons, by which, though death frequently occurs, many accidents happen. The cause here is the inhalation of the pernicious fumes of certain metals; the vapours arising from charcoal, coke, or from liquor in a state of fermentation; as well as from sleeping in close un- ventilated apartments, or respiring the foul air of wells, privies, caverns, and the like. As a necessary pre- caution, and to guard effectually against the accidents that may happen from the above-mentioned causes, pits,wells, cellars, deep vaults, or other places, that have long been pent up from air and light, ought never to be entered immedi-