MU MU 211 an eulogium upon mulberries, and recommends the gathering of them before sun-set. “Ule salubres ^Estates peraget, qui nigris prandia moris Finiet, ante gravem, qua: legerit, arbore solem.” * The hark and root of the mul- berry-tree are detersive and aperient. When mulberries are but young, they are bitter and harsh, and after- wards become sweet and pleasant, in the same manner, and for the same reason as grapes, which are at first harsh, and afterwards acquire a sweet taste. It is said that white mulberries were originally produced from a common mulberry being grafted on a white poplar. These mulberries have a kind of honey, insipid, and disagreeable taste; con- sequently they are not used in foods. M U M.—A wholesome kind of malt liquor, brewed chiefly from malt made from wheat instead of barley. It is not thought fit for use till it has been full two years in the cask. It is much drank in Germany; and Brunswick, in Lower Saxony, is the place of the most note for making it; hence it is frequently called Bruns- wick mum. It is sometimes im- ported into this country, and our own brewers also make small quan- tities of this bulk-increasing liquor. Good mum cannot be brewed, even without duty, at less than five shillings a gallon, being equivalent to one shilling the quart bottle. It requires to be made in quantities of ten gallons at least, and is seldom fit for bottling in less than a twelve- month. MUSHROOM ( Ayaricus campes- i iris, L.)—The mushroom is a well- known native vegetable,springing up 1 in open pastures, in August and Sep- i tember. It is most readily distin- guished, when of middle size, by its fine pink or flesh-coloured gills and pleasant smell; in a more advanced ■ 8tage> the gills become of a chocolate colour, and it is then more apt to be confounded with other kinds of du- bious quality; but that species which most nearly resembles it, is slimy to the touch, and destitute of the fine odour, having rather a disagreeable smell; farther, the noxious kinds grow in woods, or on the margins of woods, while the true mushroom springs up chiefly in open pastures, and should be gathered only in such places. Mushrooms have been long used in sauces, in ketchup, soy, and other forms of cookery. They are of a tough, leathery consistence; and being almost indigestible, they afford little nutriment, notwithstand- ing they in a great measui'e resem- ble animal food. Pickled with vinegar or salted, mushrooms become still more tough; and roasted with butter, they are an indigestible mass, and extremely liable to turn rancid in the stomach.—See Ketchup, Soy, §c. Pliny exclaims against the luxury of his countrymen in the use of mushrooms; and wonders what ex- traordinary pleasure there can be in eating such dangerous food. The ancient writers in the Materia Me- dica, seem to agree that mushrooms in general, are unwholesome; and the moderns, Lemerjq Allen, Geof- frey, Boerbaave, Linnaeus, and others, concur in the same-opinion. There are numerous instances on record of their fatal effects, and almost all authors agree that they are fraught with poison. The common esculent kinds of fungi, if eaten too freely, cause heart- burn, sickness, vomitings, diarrhoea, dysenteries, and other dangerous symptoms. It would be well, there- fore, they were either banished from the table, or used more sparingly; but if the palate must he indulged in these treacherous gratifications, or as Seneca terms them, “ this volup- tuous poison,” it is necessary that those employed in collecting them, should be extremely cautious, lest they collect such as are absolutely