PL PL 241 table as a dessert, they are either raw, fried, or roasted; but if intended as a substitute for bread, they are cut before they are ripe, and are then either roasted or boiled. The trees being tall and slender, the Indians cut them down to get at the fruit; and in doing this they suffer no loss, for the steins are only one year’s growth, and would die if not cut; but the root continues, and new stems soon spring up, which in another year produce ripe fruit also. From the ripe plantains a liquor is made called Mislaw. When this is made, the fruit is roasted in its husks, and, after totally beating them to a mash, water is poured upon them, and, as the liquor is wanted, it is drawn off. But the nature of this fruit is such that it will not keep long without running into a state of putrefaction ; consequently, to reap the advantage of it at all times, cakes are made of the pulp, and dried over a slow fire: and as they stand in need of mistaw, these cakes are mashed in water, when they answer all the purposes of fresh fruit. Dur- ing journeys, these cakes are exceed- ingly convenient for the making of this liquor. The leaves of the tree being large and spacious, serve the Indians for table cloths and napkins. The plantain and banana * trees are among the most important pro- ductions of the earth. The banana tree is cultivated on a most extensive scale in Jamaica; without the fruit of which, Dr. Wright says, the island would scarcely be habitable, as no i species of provision would supply their place. Even flour, or bread itself, would be less agreeable, and less able to support the laborious negro, so as to enable him to do his business, or to keep in health. Plan- tains also fatten horses, cattle, swine, * Musa sapientum, is 4>.e systematic name of the banana tree ; it is also called Banana, Bananeira, Ficodes, Ficus Indica, Musa fructu, cucumerino i breviori, senoria, and pacccira. fowls, and other domestic animals. The leaves being smooth and soft, are employed as dressings after blis- ters. The water from the soft trunk is astringent, and employed by some to check diarrhoeas. Every other part of the tree is useful in different ways in rural economy. The leaves, independent of being used as already mentioned, for napkins and table- cloths, serve as foocl for hogs. The banana tree, Musa sapientim, differs from the plantain in having its stalks marked with dark purple stripes and spots. The fruit is shorter, straighter and rounder; the pulp is softer and of a more luscious taste. It is never eaten green ; but, when ripe, is very agreeable, either eaten raw or fried in slices as fritters, and is relished by all ranks of people in the West Indies. Both the banana and plantain were carried to the West Indies from the Canary Islands, whither, it is believed, they had been brought from Guinea, where they grow naturally. PLETHORA. — A condition of body in which the vessels are fuller of humours than is agreeable with a natural state of health. When the general mass of fluids is increased beyond what is conducive to the per- fection of health, there arises what writers term plethora, which may prove the source of different dis- eases. When, therefore, this over- fulness begins to produce langour and oppression, timely care should be taken to reduce the body to a proper standard, by abridging the food, and increasing the natural dis- charges, using more exercise and less sleep. But in opposite circum- stances, where the fluids have been exhausted, the prevention of further waste should be attempted by the use of strengthening stomachics, nourishing diet, and abstaining from mental or bodily fatigue. — See Stomachics. PLOVER.—(See Lapwing). PLUM.—(Prunus Domcstica, L.) Y