ST 313 ST virtues; though with this tempera- ture of the menstruum they never yield a strong impregnation, though generally it is the most agreeable to the palate and stomach. Warm water, though under the boiling heat, extracts more powerfully than cold, and the more as the temperature of the water is increased. W ith respect to every temperature, this is especi- ally to be attended to, that by infusion bitters suffer a gradual decomposi- tion, and consequently the matter extracted is different according to the length of time that the menstruum has been applied; so that the tem- perature being given, whatever is ex- tracted in the first hour is lighter and more agreeable matter than what is extracted after many hours’ infusion. And as regards tinctures made with a proof spirit, the same things are to be observed as of those made with water, that there is a gradual decom- position of the substance, and there- fore that the tinctures made by a short infusion are more agreeable than those that have stood longer. STOMA CHICS. — Medicines to fortify the stomach and system gene- rally. Among the principal of these may be classed the tonic bitters— various kinds of wine, some of the preparations of iron, carminatives, &c. e. g.—See Tonics. * Calumba. * Chamomile. Augustura Bark. Bark, Peruvian. * Gentian. * Rhubarb. * Orange and lemon peel. Essential oil of juniper. Plaster of labdanurn, &c. {Those* marked thus, may he con- sulted under their respective heads.) STOMACH-PUMP.—A stomach syringe or instrument for diluting and washing away various poisons taken into the stomach, either by ac- cident or design, was first suggested by Boerhaave; since revived by Renault in his work on poisons. Dr. Monro afterwards gave drawings of instruments for the removal of lau- danum from the stomach.—(Thesis de Dysphagia. Edinb. 1797). But until Dr. Physic (see Eclectic Re- pertory, vol. iii. p. Ill) proved the utility of the stomach-pump in the case of a child poisoned with lau- danum, the invention gained little attention. The stomach-pump as now perfected, appears to be admir- ably adapted to the joint object of enlarging the gullet by gradual dila- tation, and of conveying any quan- tity of food that may be desirable. The instrument, as regards its struc- ture, consists of an elastic gum tube, a quarter of an inch in diameter, and two feet and a half in length, termi- nating in the lower extremity, or that introduced into the stomach, in a small globe of ivory with various perforations, which for the present purpose must be omitted, and filled at the upper end either by a screw or a plug, to an elastic bottle of suf- ficient size to contain at least a quart of liquid, with a stop cock fitted to it, as in what is called the hydrocele bottle. Instead of the bottle, a pewter syringe may be adapted, of equal capacity, and used in the same manner. The bottle or syringe being filled with warm water, and fitted to the tube already introduced into the stomach by the mouth or a nostril, on turning the stop-cock the water or other liquid may be easily forced into the stomach, and withdrawn by a reverse action: and hence, lauda- num or any other deleterious ingre- dient capable of dilution, may be pumped up in a diluted state till the stomach is entirely unloaded; and liquid food to any extent, may be introduced at option. STRAWBERRY, {Fragaria).— Like grapes, strawberries are resol- vent and laxative without debilitating. If eaten plentifully, they have been found a safe preventive against the gravel, as stands attested by the ex- perience of the celebrated Linnaeus, 2 E