BO BO 39 e 2 same thing; but by dusting your veal and putting it into the water when cold, it will prevent the foul- ness of the water from hanging about it. Take the scum off clean as soon as it begins to rise, and cover up the pot closely. Let the meat boil as slowly as possible, put in plenty of water, which will make the veal rise and look plump. A cook can- not commit a greater mistake, than to let any sort of meat boil fast, since it hardens the outside before it is warm within, and contributes to discolour it: thus a large leg of veal, of twelve pounds’ weight, will take three hours and a half boiling, and the slower it boils the whiter and plumper it will be. When mutton or beef is the object of cookery, be careful to dredge them well with flour before they are put into the pot of cold water, and keep it covered; but do not forget to take off the scum as soon as it rises. Mutton and beef do not require so much boiling, nor is it much minded if it be a little under the mark; but lamb, pork, and veal, should be well boiled, as they will otherwise be un- wholesome. A leg of pork will take half an hour more boiling than a leg of veal of the same weight; but in general, when you boil beef or mut- ton, you may allow an hour for every four pounds weight. To boil a leg of lamb of about four pounds weight, you must allow an hour and a half. Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. The cloths kept for this purpose should be boiled after each using in clean water, nor should they be suffered to hang in damp places, which would be the means of communicating a damp flavour to the meat. The same observation stands good as re- gards tapes, pudding-strings, and cloths. To put the meat in when the water is cold, is allowed to be the best method, as it thereby gets warm through, gradually, before the out- side becomes hard. Be careful to skim the pot the moment it boils, other- wise the scum will be dispersed over the meat. The more soups and broths are skimmed the clearer they will be. Remember that meats boiled quick will be hard. Vegetables ought never to be boiled, with the exception of carrots and parsnips, with meat. For boiling and roasting, the length of time ought to be determined by the bulk and solidity of the joint, the strength of the fire, &c.; the time must be reckoned from the instant the water just commences boiling, and however fiercely it boils, the water remains at the same pitch of temperature. Meats become more tender, consequently more easy of digestion, as well as better flavoured, by hanging; but veal and lamb will not bear it so long as the flesh of older animals, and fresh-killed meat will take much longer time to boil than that which has been kept till it is what the butchers call ripe. It will also keep longer in cold than in warm weather : if it be frozen it must be thawed before boiling, as well as before roasting; if it be fresh killed it will be tough and hard, stew it ever so long or ever so gently. In cold weather, the night before you dress it, remove it to a place where the temperature is not less than 45° of Fahrenheit’s thermometer. If beef or poultry be suffered to remain in the water after they are done enough, they will become soddened and lose their flavour. Beef and mutton, es- pecially large pieces or joints, a little underdone, will hash or broil all the better for it; but lamb, pork, or veal are uneatable if not thoroughly boiled, though by no means ought they to he overdone. To calculate this, weigh the meat, and allow for all salted joints a quarter of an hour for every pound, and some minutes over (from ten to fifteen) according as the fa- mily like it, over or under done. A leg of pork will take the allowance above named, besides allowing a quarter of an hour for each pound,