188 LO LO reaches from the mouth to the vent; but what this animal differs in from all others, is, that the spinal marrow is in the breast bone. It is furnished with two long feelers or horns, that issue on each side of the head, that seem to correct the dimness of its sight, and apprise the animal of its danger or prey. Every lobster is an hermaphrodite, and is supposed to be self-impregnated; the ovary or place where the spawn is first pro- duced is backwards, toward the tail, where a red substance is found, when too full for exclusion. From this receptacle there go two canals, that open on each side at the jointures of the shell, at the belly; and through these passages the spawn is excluded and placed under the tail, where the animal preserves them from danger for some time, until they come to maturity; when, being furnished with limbs and motion, they drop off into the water. When the young lobsters leave the parent they immediately seek for refuge in the smallest clefts of rocks, and crevices, at the bottom of the sea, where the entrance is but small, and the opening can be easily defended. There, without seeming to take any food, they grow larger in a few weeks time, from the mere accidental substances which the water washes to their retreats. By this time also they acquire a hard, firm shell, which furnishes them with both offensive and defensive armour. They then issue from their fortresses, and boldly creep along the bottom in hopes of meeting with more diminutive plunder; the spawn of fish, the smaller animals of their own kind, but chiefly the worms that keep at the bottom of the sea supply them with plenty. They keep in this manner close among the rocks, busily employed in scratch- ing up the sand with their claws for worms, or surprising such heedless animals as fall within their grasp : thus they have little to apprehend except from each other; for in them, as among other sea animals, the large are formidable enemies to the small. But this life of abundance and security is soon to have a most dan- gerous interruption, for the body of the lobster still continuing to in- crease, while its shell remains un- alterably the same, there comes on a necessity of getting free. The young of this kind, therefore, change their shell oftener than the old, who remain in the same shell often for two years together. In general, however, all these animals change their shell once a year; and this is not only a most painful operation, but a dangerous one. Their molting sea- son is generally about the beginning of summer, at which time their food is in plenty, and their strength and vigour in the highest perfection. For some days before their change, the animal discontinues its usual vora- ciousness, it lies torpid and motion- less as if in anxious expectation of its approaching change. Just before casting its shell it throws itself upon its back, strikes its claws against each other, and every limb seems to trem- ble, its feelers are agitated, and the whole body is in violent motion; it then swells itself in an unusual man- ner, and at last the shell begins to divide at its junctures, particularly at the junctures of the belly. It also seems turned inside out, and its sto- mach comes away with its shell. After this, by the same operation, it disengages itself of the claws, which burst at the joints; the animal with a tremulous motion casting them off as a man would kick off a boot. Thus in a short time this wonder- ful creature finds itself at liberty, but in so weak and enfeebled a state, that it continues several hours mo- tionless. Indeed so violent is the operation, that many of them die under it. Immediately after this change, they have not only the soft- ness but the timidity of a worm.