CO CO 71 fruit of the Menispermum Cocculus, better known by the names of India- berry and Cocculus Indicus. Its importation into this country from the East Indies is very great, consi- dering that few know the purpose for which it is principally used: for, though the cisampelos paneira (which many botanists state to be the same plant), has a place in the Pharmaco- poeias, its virtues are generally re- ferred to the root, and that root is brought from America. That cocculus indicus is a strong narcotic, is unquestionable; and it is to this property alone that it pre- serves its place in the brewery. In India, the berries are thrown into the water for the purpose of catching fish, which by swallowing them be- come intoxicated. They were once used here in the same way; but the practice,we believe, is now prohibited. The extensive use of this ingredient was proved to a Committee of the House of Commons in 1818. Those who give brewing receipts, recom- mend it in quantities of four pounds to twenty barrels, boiled with the worts : but there appears to be a mystery on this subject, which demands investi- gation.—See Nux Vomica. COCK.—The flesh of the cock is not so nourishing as that of a capon, (see Capon) ; and his flesh is more rigid and difficult of digestion : broth is made of the cock’s flesh, and for this purpose the oldest is always chosen. This broth is of an opening and detersive natui-e ; is mildly ape- rient, and is reckoned both nutritive and restorative. Some of the ancient physicians say that the genitals of this bird, especially when young, are good for lean and emaciated persons, and that they generate the seminal fluid: that brains are good in diar- rhoea: they also considered the gall of a cock to be good in some cases of diseased eyes, as well as to remove spots and freckles on the skin — Cocks-combs are delicate eating, and a highly prized epicurean dish, and claim an elevated place among “ The heads of parrots, tongues of nightingales, The brains of peacocks and of ostriches, &c.” COD.—A sea-fish, caught in great plenty on the banks of Newfound- land, Dogger-Bank, &c*—See Fish. Cod generally comes into good season in October, when, if the wea- ther is cold, it eats as fine as at any time of the year; towards the latter end of January and February, and part of March, they are mostly poor; but the latter end of March, April, and May, they are generally particularly fine; having shot their spawn, they come in fine order. The Dogger-Bank cod are the most es- teemed, as they generally cut in fine large flakes; the north-country cod, which are caught off the Orkney isles, are generally str-ingy, or what is commonly called woolly, and sell at a very inferior price, but are caught in much greater abundance than the Dogger cod. The cod are all caught with hook, and brought alive in well-boats to the London markets. The cod cured on the' Dogger-Bank is remarkably fine, and seldom cured above two or three weeks before brought to market; the barrel Cod is commonly cured on the coast of Scotland and Yorkshire. There is a great deal of inferior cured salt fish brought from Newfoundland and Ireland. “The skull of a Dogger-Bank cod is one of those concatenations of tit- hits, which some epicures are so fond of either baked or boiled: it is com- posed of lots of pretty playthings, or other such finery, but it will not do for those who want a good meal: it may be bought for about two shillings. Either boil it whole or cut it into pieces —flour and dry them, and then egg and crumb, and fry them; or stew it. —The tail of a codfish cut in fillets, or slices, and fried, makes a good dish, and is generally to be bought at a very reasonable rate ; if boiled, it is