CH CI-I 68 cularly when boiled with eggs and milk. It is frequently recommended as a restorative, in cases of emacia- tion and consumption. It is more nourishing and less heating than coffee. It is commonly made too thick; but when of a proper degree of strength, it is a very palatable and wholesome beverage, though, on account of its oily quality, it proves oppressive and clogging to some stomachs. When boiled with milk and eggs, chocolate is extremely nourishing: but the spices with which it is mixed, such as cinnamon, cloves, musk, va- nilla, and the like, make it more heating and less wholesome. Vanilla, which is always found in Spanish cho- colate, is an extremely volatile and pungent aromatic; even its flavour is insupportable to hysterical and hypochondriacal persons; it occa- sions violent head-ache, trembling, giddiness, and other symptoms, oc- curring in these complaints. The common chocolate prepared with eggs, sugar, milk, and water, is the most nutritive and wholesome; but a too frequent and immoderate use of it is always hurtful, particularly to the individuals before alluded to, as the cacao is too fat and indigestible to them, and creates a false or forced appetite. Cacao, of itself, is less heating and lighter than if made into chocolate, but it is not so nourishing. The immoderate use of this oily be- verage, is apt to induce a febrile state in young people, and to supply the sedentary with superfluous nourish- ment; while, like coffee, it frequently brings on a state of irritability and uneasiness. To the corpulent and weak, cho- colate is improper; and if they be immoderate eaters, it induces inflam- matory diseases and apoplexies. It also disagrees with persons much employed in mental pursuits; and those who imagine that it will supply their losses, sustained by nocturnal debaucheries of whatever kind, will find themselves disappointed in their hopes. By continually drinking cho- colate, and using other nutritive sub- stances, they will, indeed, be stimu- lated to new irregularities, but even- tually at the expense of their palsied nerves, and their broken frame. In children threatened with a wasting, or spinal consumption, as likewise in some of the complaints of the lungs in the adult state; chocolate, with a sufficient quantity of milk, may have a beneficial effect; but, even in these cases, a strong decoc- tion of roasted oatmeal in milk, with a small addition of chocolate, is much better calculated to promote a return of health.—See Cacao. CHYLE.—In the animal eco- nomy, the word chyle, derived from the Greek, implies a milky fluid, extracted from dissolved aliments of every kind, and conveyed to the blood, through the medium of the lymphaties and thoracic duct. The aliment having been reduced to chyme in the stomach, is propelled into the duodenum (see Intestines) where it is converted partly into chyle, which is absorbed into the sys- tem from the small intestines, and partly into a residual matter, that assumes the nature of freces in the large intestines, and is ultimately re- jected from the system. As it is into the duodenum that the biliary and pancreatic ducts discharge their re- spective fluids, s chylification is gene- rally presumed to be essentially con- nected with the action of the bile and the pancreatic liquor. (See Chyme). So far as the organ of the stomach is concerned in the digestive function, we have some insight into the pro- cess. But beyond this, namely, of the nature of chylification, we have little or no knowledge that can be depended upon.—See Bile, Digestion, Gastric Juice, Stomach, &c. CHYLIFICATION.—The act of turning into chyle.—See Chyle. CHYME.—The residual alimen- tary matter ejected per anum. The