TR 344 TR to different constitutions, situations, and ages, in which the Greeks, from whom gymnastic exercises are de- rived, attained an extraordinary de- gree of perfection. The great ad- vantage of a course of bodily exercise cannot be disputed, when it is con- sidered how many individuals meet with a premature grave from want of activity, motion, and nervous energy, though their organisation may in no respect be deficient. Besides, a body inured to frequent and laborious ex- ercise, will not be easily affected by external causes of disease, being se- cured, as it were, by a coat of mail, against the attacks of many acute disorders. The Greeks attempted to cure diseases in their first stages, or at least to arrest their progress, by the systematic institution of gym- nastic exercises. They caused the patient to move in various postures, applied gentle friction to the whole surface of the body, and used a variety of methods to overcome the languor of the muscles, by rousing the muscular energy. In relaxed and emaciated individuals, whose organisation is deficient in the proper of exercises for the preservation of health. This is said to have been invented by one Herodicus, born at Salymbra, a city of Thrace, or, as some say, at Leu- tini, in Sicily. He was first master of an academy, where young gentlemen came to learn warlike and manly exer- cises, and observing them to he very healthful on that account, he made ex- ercise become an art, in reference to the recovering of men out of diseases, as well as preserving them from them, and called it gymnastics, which he made a great part of his practice. But Hippo- crates, who was his scholar, blames him sometimes for his excesses with this view; and Plato exclaim^ against him with some warmth, for enjoining his patients to walk from Athens to Megara, which is about twenty-five miles, and to come home on foot as they went, as soon as ever they had but touched the walls of the city.—Hooper's Medical Dic- tionary. degree of tone or elasticity, this method must be allowed to possess great advantages, though it will not admit of being applied indiscrimi- nately to all diseases. All who wish for health, vigour, and a long and happy life, will study the art of gymnastic training, by suitable exercises, and a diet best adapted to constitution; and as Cap- tain Barclay’s work on Training is not only expensive, but out of print, and as there is no book on this im- portant science to be had at a mode- rate charge, we shall avail ourselves of the present opportunity to throw together some improved observations on the subject, and their application to the strengthening of nervous and debilitated constitutions, as well as for the purposes of gymnastic enter- prises. Training, according to the method now established, consists in a series of exercises and regimen, particularly adapted for the purpose of gaining additional strength, in order to undertake any Herculean feat, as running, walking, boxing and the like. It was known to the an- cients, who paid considerable atten- tion to the means of augmenting corporeal vigour and activity, and accordingly, among the Greeks and Romans, certain rules of regimen were prescribed to the candidates for gymnastic celebrity. We are not, however, in possession of any de- tailed account of the particular kind of diet in use among the Greeks previously to the solemn contest at the public games, although we are assured that the strictest temperance, sobriety, and regularity in living were indispensably requisite. The candidates, at the same time, were subjected to daily exercise in the Gymnasium for ten months, which, with the prescribed regimen, consti- tuted the preparatory course of train- ing adopted by the Athletae of ancient Greece. Among the Romans, the exercises of the Palcestra degenerated from the rank of a liberal art, and