228 OY OY lias been previously removed by a burning body. It may therefore be anticipated, that oxygen is consumed during respiration. (See Respiration). If abird be confined in a limited quan- tity of atmospheric air, it will at first feel no inconvenience; but as a por- tion of oxygen is withdrawn at each inspiration, its quantity rapidly di- minishes, so that respiration soon becomes laboi'ious, or soon ceases entirely. If another bird be then introduced into the same air, it will die in the course of a few seconds; or, if a lighted candle be immersed in it, its flame will be extinguished. Respiration and combustion, there- fore, have the same effect. An animal cannot live in an atmosphere which is unable to support combus- tion ; nor can a candle burn in air which is unfit for respiration. Oxy- gen may be obtained from several sources. The substances commonly employed for this purpose are the peroxide of manganese and chlorate of potash. It is colourless, and has neither taste nor smell; it reflects light very feebly, and is a non-con- ductor of electricity. It is heavier than atmospheric air. OYSTERS.—Colchester in Essex, and Milton and Queenborough in Kent, are particularly celebrated for fine oysters. They adhere to rocks at the bottom of the sea, and to the keel and helm of ships; but they avoid as much as possible all places abounding with plants and alga ma- rina, because the fat slime produced by these plants would suffocate them, and their spawn would corrupt and perish in a calm sea. In viewing them attentively by the microscope, a milky fluid is seen, which may be called the seed or spawn of oysters, and of all other testaceous fishes. This liquor is found to be composed of a number of small eggs, which float in a viscid humour; and each of these eggs contains an oyster, or an animal of its species. They are very good for eating when they are full of this fecundatory humour, and as long as the eggs in their ovaria continue white, and have not yet assumed the form of an oyster; but when their substance has once arrived at this point of perfection, and is organised, then the fecun- dating humour grows thick and blackish, and every one of the little oysters begins to be covered with a small shell; then the mother oysters become hard, and cease to be good as food. The same happens when they have shed their melts, or cast their spawn; for their belly dries up, and the rest of their flesh, their mus- cles and their beards, as commonly called, harden and become more solid. The prolific liquor of oysters does not acquire its degree of maturity till the end of the spring; they shed it during the whole sum- mer. This liquor, which floats on the water, fastens, by the means of its viscidity, to rocks, stones, or any thing it meets with in the sea; and the little oysters finding a suitable aliment, grow in a short time. Be- cause they have no progressive motion, Aristotle called them aquatic plants! A great number of them perish before they receive any growth; as, for instance, all the spawn that adheres to the sea-weed, or a too liquid slime, is corrupted by the badness of the aliment or the place; though, indeed, the crabs which frequent among marine plants, seem to thrive there, and are very fond of such nourishment. Oysters are consumed, under one form or another, in such numbers, as to have become a valuable article of commerce : to give some idea of its extent, and of the number of hands to which it gives employment, it may be sufficient to mention the oyster fisheries alone. In the rivers of this country, more particularly in the Crouch, the Blackwater, and Colne, a great variety of excellent oyster's are bred. The boats em- ployed in dredging them are from