61 CA CA himself according to his rank or taste. It will he seen by the follow- ing curious extract from treatises printed by the famous Wynkyn de Worde, that the art of carving was not neglected by our ancestors, and that table dissection was then re- duced to a science, with as much precision and elegance as it is at the present day. The first treatise is called ‘The Boke of Kerving,’ and proves that the pleasures of the table must have been highly valued, when so pointed an attention was paid to their minutiae. The extract is here given verbatim as it stands, ortho- graphically. ‘ The termes of a kerver be here as follow :— Breke that deer. Lesche that brawn. Lyste that swan. Rere that goose. Sauce that capon. Spoil that hen. Truche that chekyn. Unbrace that mallard. Unlace that conye. Disfygure that peacocke. Unjoint that byterne. Untacke that curlewe. Allay that fesaunde. Wynge that patryche. Wynge that quaile. Mynce that plover. Thye that pygon. Border that paste. Thye that woodcocke. Thye all maner of small birds. Tymbre that fyre. Tyre that egge. Chynne that salmon. Strynge that lamproye. Splat that pyke. Sauce that plaice. tenche Splay that breme. Syde that haddock. Tuske that barbell. Calpin that troute. Tyne that chever. Trassene that ele. Tresme that sturgeon. Under-hauncli that porpus. Tayme that crabbe. Barbe that lobster. Here endeth the goodly termes of kerving.’ See Meat, Fish, Poultry, dif- ferent joints of, to carve. In the days of yore, “ Le grand Ecuyer tranchant,” or the Master Cook, was the next officer of the mouth in rank to the “ Maitre d’Ho- tel,” and the technical terms of his art were as singular as any of those which ornament “ Grose’s Classical Slang Dictionary,” or the “ Gipsies’ Gibberish:” the only one of these old phrases now in common use is “cut up the turkey;”—we are no longer desired “ to disfigure a pea- cock”—“ unbrace a duck,” &c. See Instructions for the Officer s Mouth, by Rose, 1682. Ceremony does not in any thing more commonly and more com- pletely triumph over comfort, than in the administration of the honours of the table. It is seldom under- stood by those who deal out the loaves and fishes, that he is the best carver who serves the greatest num- ber of guests in the least portion of time. To effect this (according to the maxims of the late Dr. Kitch- ener), the best way will be to fill the plates and send them round, in- stead of asking each individual if they choose soup, fish, &c., or what, particular part they prefer, for as they cannot all be choosers, you will thus escape making any invidious distinc- tions.— Coo/c's Oracle, p. 41. A dexterous carver, especially if he be possessed with that determined enemy to ceremony and sauce—a keen appetite, will help half a dozen people in half the time one of your would-be-thought folks wastes in making civil faces, &c. to a single guest. It would save a great deal of time, &c., if poultry, especially large turkeys and geese, were sent to table ready cut up. Fish that is fried, should be previously divided into such o