GA 141 GA fniit room was formerly a mere loft, where fruits were kept on the floor, in common with onions, with no proper means of separation or ar- rangement for systematic consump- tion. Now, however, they are regu- larly fitted up, either with shelves or lattice-work, in which to place sieves of different sorts of fruit, or with close shelves for drawers, boxes, &c. according to the various modes adopted of preserving them. The room may be of any form, but one long and narrow is generally best adapted for ventilation and heating, or drying, when necessary, by a flue. The system of shelves may be placed along one side, and may be raised to the height of six feet or more, ac- cording to the number wanted.— These shelves are formed of open work, on which to place square sieves of fruit, each of which should be numbered, and a label or slate con- taining the corresponding numbers, may be hung up in the room, and opposite each number should be a space for noting down daily the num- ber taken out of each sieve for use. From this table statements may be made, from time to time, of the quantity of fruit on hand for the use of the house steward. (Maher in Hort. Trans. Vol. II. p. 76). For- syth directs that all the floors or shelves on which apples are to be kept or sweated, should be made of white deal, as when red deal is made use of for these purposes, it is liable to give a disagreeable resinous taste to the fruit, and spoils its flavour: when white deal, cannot be procured, he advises covering the shelves with canvass. Those sorts of fruit which keep longest are generally best pre- served in jars, excluded from the air, and placed in cold dry situations, not under 32° nor above 40° Far. FRUMENTY. (Pronounced, cor- ruptly, Furmity—derived from the Latin, framentum, corn).—A food, or pottage, made of wheat and rai- sins boiled in milk. A Yorkshire dish. FRYING.—To dress meat in a pan over a fire, is called frying; for which process the following direc- tions should be observed. Always keep your frying-pan clean, and see that it is properly tinned. When you fry any sort of fish, first dry them in a cloth, and dredge them with flour; put into your frying-pan plenty of dripping, or hogs’ lard, and let it be boiling hot before you put in the fish. Butter is not so good for the purpose, as it is apt to burn and blacken the fish, and make them soft. When you have fried your fish, lay them on a dish or hair sieve to drain, before you send them up to table. When you fry parsley, be sure to pick it very cautiously; wash it well, dip it into cold water, and throw it into a pan of boiling fat; this will make it very crisp, and of a finer green, provided you do not let it remain too long in the pan. FUEL. — Combustibles fit for kindling and supporting a fire.—See Coo/cery, Heat. FUNGI, ESCULENT.—See Mushrooms. G. GADUS.—The name of a genus of fishes of the Jugular tribe. The following species are brought to the European market for the use of the table:— 1. Gadus Ciliaris. — The Baltic torsk. The Icelanders prepare it by salting and drying, when it becomes an article of common use, under the name of Tetteling. Its flesh is white, tender, and well-flavoured. 2, Gadus Morhua.—The cod-fish.