su SU 318 forms a syrup which neither ferments nor crystallises; ancl this proportion may he considered the basis of all syrups, and seems to be the degree of boiling syrup called smooth by the confectioners, as exemplified in their syrups de capillaire and orgeat. Sugar is equally powerful in preserv- ing animal substances from putre- faction. As a novelty to foreign artists we translate, from their great precursor, Ccelcus Apicius, a method of preserving meat without salt:— “ Let fresh meat of any kind be covered with honey; hut hang up the vessel, and use when you please. This succeeds better in winter; hut will last a few days in summer. The same may he done with meat that has been cooked.”—Lib. i. cap. 8. A variety of other methods have been attempted for the preservation of food, but these have been rather matters of curiosity than utility.* Wet Preserves in Syrup. — In making wet preserves in syrup, it is necessary to consider the manner in which the several degrees of strength in syrup is to be judged of in boiling. If moist sugar be used, the syrup must be clarified as follows:— To clarify Moist Sugar.—Break the white of an egg into your pre- serving pan, put in four quarts of water, and beat it up to a froth with a whisk, then put in twelve pounds of sugar, mix all together, set it over * The property of charcoal to restore sweetness to meat beginning to be tainted, was first pointed out by M. Lowitz, in Petersburg^, 1786, who made numerous experiments on the subject. In the fourth volume of the Journal of Science, there is an account of some successful experiments, in which alternate layers of meat and charcoal were packed in canisters previously filled with carbonic acid, and then care- fully luted and covered with bladders. See also Journal de Pharmacie, for September, 1818, for some experiments made by Professor Raymond, upon the antiseptic properties of chlorine. the five, and when it boils put in a little cold water; in this manner proceed as often as may be necessary till the scum appears thick on the top, then remove it from the fire, and let it settle; take off the scum, and let it pass through a straining bag. If the sugar should not appear very fine, you must boil it again be- fore you strain it, otherwise in boiling it to a height it will l'ise over the pan; having thus finished the opera- tion you may proceed to clarify your sugar according to the various de- grees in which it may be wanted. 1. First degree, called Smooth or Candy Sugar. — Having clarified your sugar as above directed, put the quantity you may have occasion for over the fire, and let it boil till it be smooth, which may be known by dipping the skimmer into the sugar, and then touching it between your fore-finger and thumb, and on im- mediately opening them you will see a small thread drawn between, which will immediately break and remain as a drop on your thumb. This will be as a test of its smoothness in some degree. Then give it another boil- ing, and it will draw into a larger string, when it will have acquired the first degree above-mentioned. 2. Second degree, called Blown Sugar.—To obtain this degree the sugar must be boiled longer than in the first process, and then dip your skimmer, shaking off what sugar you can into the pan, then with your mouth blow strongly through the holes, and if certain bladders or bub- bles blow through, it will be a proof of its having acquired the second degree. 3. Third degree, called Feathered Sugar.—This degree is proved by dipping the skimmer when the sugar has boiled longer than in the pre- ceding degree. First shake it over the pan, then give it a sudden flirt behind you, and if it be enough the sugar will fly off like feathers. 4. Fourth degree, called Crackled