MA MA 196 if iron be held in solution; and, which is a much more delicate test, prussiate of potass, or ferro-cyanate of potass, a few drops of the solu- tion of it dropped in the suspected beer, will, if iron be present in the most minute state, give a blue-green- ish colour in the menstruum. When properly fermented, well hopped, and of moderate strength, malt liquors are wholesome, nutri- tive, and refreshing. It has been observed, that those who drink sound malt liquors, are stronger than those who drink wine; and to those who are trained to boxing, and other athletic exercises, old home-brewed beer is particularly recommended, drawn from the cask and not bottled. Hence Jackson the pugilistic trainer, asserts, that, if any person accus- tomed to drink wine, would but try malt liquor for a month, he would find himself so much the better for it that he would soon take to the one and abandon the other. Good home- brewed beer has been styled the Vi- num Britannicum, or British wine— also liquid bread. Indeed, it is a sub- ject of much regret that so few fami- lies in this kingdom brew their own drink, but put up with the half-fer- mented, adulterated wash formed in public houses, or with the no less adulterated stuff called porter, sub- ject to the frauds of the brewers, and the ulterior sophistications and bad management of the unprincipled pub- lican. Small beer is best calculated for table use, or to allay thirst, being less heating and stimulating than other malt liquors. When drank soft and mild, after being thoroughly fer- mented and purified; it forms an ex- cellent diluent with food, especially at meals. Sydenham was in the habit of using it in this manner, both at dinner and supper, and he justly con- sidered its being well hopped a great advantage. It is doubtless the best fermented drink that can be used at meals by persons in the middle and upper ranks in life, who are in the lvabit of drinking wine after dinner. And as it abounds with fixed air, it is the most useful diluent for labourers, because it cools the body, abates thirst, and, at the same time, stimulates, in a moderate degree, the animal powers: but when stale and hard it is unwholesome to everybody. Sound strong beer is a most use- ful drink to the weak, the lean, and the labourer, provided they are not very subject to flatulency, nor troubled with disorders of the breast. If taken in moderate quantity, and of the best quality, it will be found of great service to the invalid in restoring his strength and spirits. Bottled beer is always more flatulent than that drawn from the cask. Strong ale is the most nutritive of all malt liquors, but being digested with greater difficulty than the other sorts, it cannot be taken with such safety but by those who are strong, and who use much active exercise. The best ale is made from fine pale malt, and with hops of the finest quality. It should sparkle in the glass, and the smaller the bubbles the better. Pure ale drinkers are among the healthiest and freshest- looking subjects of our population— such as our country gentlemen and wealthy farmers. On the authority of Sir Lucas Pepys, Edinburgh ale is pronounced to be the superb liquor for those whose constitutions have been weakened by the gout; and the late Dr. Gregory of Edinburgh, recommended it in indigestion, and by its means, with intermediate laxa- tives, to keep the bowels open; Dr. Marshal Hall has successfully treated many cases of weakness.* In fine, * In our endeavours to procure a well-brewed and wholesome malt liquor fornutrative and restorative purposes, in certain constitutions, it was our good fortune to be directed to Mr. Barnes’, 17, Cullum Street, who keeps some of the best London and Edinburgh bottled ales, porters, &c., in the metropolis—old, pure, and free from every kind of adul- teration.—Ed.