AL 7 AL of alkalescency from the redness of the juices. The flavour or redness of food depends much on its alkales- cency, as also on the stimulus it com- municates, and the degree of feverish heat it produces in the system— effects which are also connected with the viscidity of the food; on which account it is detained longer in the stomach, supplying thereby the want or absence of alkalescency. There is another difference as re- gards animal food—namely, the na- ture of the fluids they afford; the whole of which maybe comprehend- ed from what has been said relative to alkalescency—the fluid produced being more or less dense and stimu- lating, in proportion as that prevails. Another difference is its perspirabi- lity. The sum total of all that can be said on this subject is, that such foods as promote an accumulation of fluid in our vessels, and dispose to plethora, are the least perspirable, and commonly give most strength— that the most alkalescent foods are the most perspirable, though the viscid and less alkalescent may at- tain the same property by long reten- tion in the system. Little, if any, confidence is to be placed in what Sanctorius has said with respect to the perspirability of mutton, because he did not examine other meats in the same manner, in their perfect state; and still less of what Keil re- lates of oysters, as he himself was a valetudinarian; . consequently an unfit subject for such experiments, independent in all probability of his being of a peculiar temperament.— See Nutrition. ALIMENTS.—“By aliment,’’says Arbuthnot, “ I understand every thing which a human creature takes in common diet.” Simplicity in the choice of our alimentary materials, guards the appetite from being stimu- lated beyond its natural wants; in- digestion and its consequences are prevented, and the general health more uniformly maintained. The mul- tiplied combinations of substances, though they may please the palate, are not conducive to health. All substances which contain much jelly, whether animal or vegetable, are nourishing; for this alone affords nu- triment; and the hard, watery, and saline particles of food cannot he as- similated or converted into chyle. Nourishing substances would indeed be more conformable to nature; but as our appetite generally incites us to eat more than is necessary, we should acquire too much alimentary matter, and become too full of blood, if we were to choose only such arti- cles of food as contain a great quan- tity of jelly. It is justly observed by Buchan, that “ the great art of preparing food, is to blend the nu- tritive part of the aliment with a sufficient quantity of some light fa- rinaceous substance, in order to fill up the canal without over-charging it with more nutritious particles than are necessary for the support of the animal. This may he done either by bread or other farinaceous substances, of which there is a great variety.’’ Those, in fine, who are not engaged in hard labour or exer- cise, do not stand in need of such nutritious aliment as those whose nu- tritive fluids are partly consumed by muscular exertion, .and violent per- spiration. Those who have sustained frequent losses of blood, from what- ever cause, will best restore it by strong and juicy aliment; which, on the contrary, ought to be avoided by the plethoric. Lastly, those whose constitution is weakened and ema- ciated by free-living and dissipation, ought not to eat much at a time, but rather repeat their meals more fre- quently, at proper and regular in- tervals. It is impossible to determine by general rules, whether or not we ought to use articles of easy or dif- ficult digestion during the healthy state of the stomach; every person, therefore, ought to pay attention to