BR 47 BR they are not in the least detrimental to health. Unleavened bread consists of a mixture of meal and water, formed into a tough and firm cake, made as thin as possible, to favour.its drying; and not unfrequently with the addi- tion of butter, to render it more so- luble, friable, and porous; though it renders it more sour, and apter to become acescent on the stomach. Of the unleavened kinds of bread, biscuit is by far the best; and where leavened or fermented bread does not agree, its use cannot be too strongly recommended. P otatoe i bread is common in Ireland; and s turnip bread is used in some parts i of England. In the time of James I. the usual bread of the poor was ;made of barley.* In Iceland, dried •cod-fish is beaten to powder, and made up into cakes, and eaten for bread. The same kind of bread is ' made among the Laplanders, whose country aflords no corn. Bread, such as ours, is not only a very agree- able, but a very wholesome and nu- tritive aliment when properly and honestly made; and deemed the fit- test and lightest food for human bodies. Dr. Shaw, in his Travels, says, that the eastern nations in general are great eaters of bread; it being com- puted that three persons in four entirely live upon it, or else on such compositions as are made of barley * The Jews frequently ate barley > bread ; and our Saviour and his apostles had no other provision than five barley loaves and two small fishes, John vi. 9. J Hosea (ch. iii. 2), says, that he pur- 5 chased his wife for fifteen pieces of sil- ver, and an omer and a half of barley. The word bread is sometimes employed to signify a thing of low price. See Ezekiel xiii. 19. An omer, or homer, contained nearly six pints. The princi- pal use of barley in great Britain, as - already mentioned, is its conversion into . malt for the purpose of brewing. or wheat flour. The French are great consumers of bread; which they season with fruits of various kinds, and dilute with wine, cider, or milk, &c. Anciently every house- wife was her own baker: and the learned are in great doubt about the time when baking became a particu- lar profession, and bakers were intro- duced. It is, however, generally agreed, that they had their origin in the east, and passed from Greece to Italy, after the war with Pyrrhus, about the year of Rome, 583.—See Dr. Rees’s Cyclop, and Encyclop. Brit. art. Baker. BREAM.—A river fish—easier of digestion than carp, which it much resembles, though inferior in quality to the perch, and some others. Its flesh is soft and tender, and more esteemed for the goodness of its taste than carp. Most authors who have treated of this fish, say that it contains gross and excrementitious juices, and that its taste is more pleasant than wholesome. It has not been known to produce any very bad efffects. BRET-FISH.—(Flat Fish and Burt).—These are all three sea- fishes,called in Latin, Passer es Squam- mosi. The first mentioned has the best taste, and in shape is much like a sole. It is flat, pretty large, and beset with small rough scales, adhering closely to the skin. The next (flat-fish), is covered with small black scales, marbled with red ; and much resembles a flounder, though smaller. And the other, Burt, does not differ from the last, except in not being so large. All three are much used for food: they are also soft, white, and altogether like plaice and flounders. Those are the best that are fresh, tender, white, and pleasing to the taste. They are nourishing enough, and produce no ill effects, unless used in excess. They agree at all times, with any age or constitution.