369 VE VE causes a greater degree of resistance in the solids, as well as excites them to stronger actions ; and in autumn, when there is a tendency to dysentery if it be observed that eating of fruits brings it on, it is rather to be ascrib- ed to their cooling than to their stimulating the intestines. Quantity of Nutriment afforded by Animal and Vegetable Food.—With respect to the quantity of nutriment contained in or afforded by animal vegetable food, it is of two kinds. The first repairs the waste of the solid fibres: the other supplies cer- tain fluids, the chief of which is oil. Now as animal food is more easily assimilated, and also longer retained in the system, and as it contains a greater proportion of oil, it will afford both kinds of nutriment more co- piously than vegetables. The dif- ferent degrees of perspirability of these foods are not yet properly de- termined. Sanctorius, who first called the attention of physicians to the transpiration of the skin and lungs, which he proved to exceed the other secretions of the body considerably in weight, constantly speaks of mutton as the most per- spirable of all food, and of vegetables as checking perspiration. This, it would appear, is in consequence of the different stimulus those foods give to the stomach, so that persons who live on vegetables have not their perspiration so suddenly ex- cited. Afiother reason why vege- tables are less perspirable is, because their watery saline juices are deter- mined to the kidneys and passed off by urine, while the more perfectly mixed animal food is more uniformly diffused over the system, and so passes off by perspiration. For these reasons, the statements of Sanctorius may be understood, for vegetable aliment is no longer retained in the body, but mostly takes the course of the kidneys. Both, however, in this respect are equally perspirable; as it is ascertained, that a person living on either, returns once a day to his standard weight; and if we consider the little nourishment contained in vegetables, with the great tendency of animal food to corpulency, it must be allowed that vegetables are more quickly perspired than animal food. Among the various other properties of vegetable food, it has been espe- cially considered by all authors, as having most influence on the powers of the mind, and in preserving a delicacy effecting a liveliness of ima- gination, and an activeness of judg- ment; but in proportion to those superior qualities, it must be ob- served, that this state of the body is equally the attendant of timidity, fluctuation and doubt: animal food, in the other extreme, gives a stronger vigour, and firmness of purpose, fitted for the most active exertions in life. By a mixture of diet, these two extremes come to be counter- acted ; the body possesses a proper share of vigour, and correspondent to this, the mind displays a firmness and capacity suited to every valu- able purpose; the diet then produc- ing this state may properly be called temperance, without limiting the in- dividual to an exact portion of either kind of food, or tying him up by the absurd and sickly system of Cornaro ; and this state will he properly regu- lated by the experience and feelings of each individual, both in regard to the quantity and quality of nourish- ment. In the use of vegetable, as well as animal food, attention should be equally paid to the proportion taken, as to the state in which it is used; the fact is, therefore, that these must be regulated by the three circumstances—of season, way of life, and climate. With respect to the fii'st, in sum- mer the quantity of vegetables should always be increased, whatever our habits may be; the propriety of this is evidently pointed out by Nature, from its abundance at this period.