204 ME ME 6. Breast of Veal.—A breast of veal must be cut across quite through, dividing the gristly from the rib- bones; this is called cutting the brisket from the ribs; the brisket may be cut into pieces as wanted, for some prefer this part to the ribs. It needs no particular directions bow to separate the ribs, since all there is to do is, to put the knife in at the top between any two, and continue downwards till they be separated. Remember to give a piece of the sweet-bread to every one you help, as that is reckoned an epicurean morsel. 7. Knuckle of Veal.—This is al- ways boiled, and much relished on account of the fat, sinewy tendons about the knuckle, for if it be lean it is not worth dressing; you can hardly cut this joint amiss, though it is usual to begin in the thickest part, from whence some fine slices may be taken. The hones about the knuckle may be easily separated at the joints, and afford delicate picking. 8. Fillet of Veal.—This is the thigh part, and is the same part in the calf as that which is called the buttock in the ox. Many people esteem the outside slice of a fillet of veal a great delicacy, because it is most savoury; but every one does not think so; the question should therefore be put, before you help any one to it. If no one choose the first slice, lay it in the dish, and the se- cond cut will be white meat, but take care to cut it even, and close to the bone. A fillet of veal is usually stuffed under the skirt or flap, with a pudding, or force meat; into this you must cut in a line with the sur- face of the fillet, and take out a thin slice; this, and a little fat cut from the skirt, must be given to each person at table. 9. Calf’s Head. — Calf’s head, boiled, is an elegant disb, and affords many delicate bits; when young it is perfectly white, and the fat very fine; it must be cut quite along the cheek hone, in the fleshy part, from whence many handsome slices may be taken. In the fleshy part at the end of the jaw bone lies part of the throat sweet bread, which is esteemed the best part of the head. Many people are fond of the eye, which must be cut from the socket, and cutting quite round, keeping the point of the knife slanting towards the middle, so as to divide the meat from the bone. Though the eye of the calf’s head is seldom divided, yet if the company be large, you may cut it in half, and so make it serve two people. The palate is also much esteemed by some people, and is found on the under side of the roof of the mouth; it is a crinkled, white, thick skin, and may be easily separated from the bone by the knife, by lifting up the head with your left hand. When you serve any person with a slice of the head, you must inquire whether they choose to have any of the tongue or brains, which are generally served up in a separate dish; a slice from the thick part of the tongue, near the root, is best. 10. Leg of Mutton.—A leg of mut- ton whether boiled or roasted is car- j ved in the same manner, though there are two methods of cutting it; ! some cut it longways, but the most j general method is to cut it across in the thickest part, quite down to the bone, dividing the gland called “the Pope’s eye,” of which many gour- , mands are extremely fond. The most juicy parts of the leg are in the thick part of it, but many prefer the drier part of a leg of mutton, which is about the shank or knuckle, called by some venison, though it is certainly the coarsest part of the joint. A leg of wether mutton, which is generally the best flavoured, may be easily known by the kernel—a little round of fat at the top of the thick part. The meat about the cramp bone, is es- teemed a delicate morsel. 11. Shoulder of Mutton—This joint has not unfrequently been salted and