FO FO 136 Tapir.—The flesh of the Tapir is much esteemed by the inhabitants of South America, hut is inferior to our beef.—See Hog, Bacon, Sucking Pig. See also, Butchers’ Meat to choose. FOOD, Reptiles used as.— Compared with other living crea- tures, very few reptiles are used as aliment, and this most probably more on account of their disgusting ap- pearance, than of their being noxious or unpalatable, as some of the greatest luxuries of the table belong to this class of animals. Besides the green turtle, several other species of the testudo are eaten, especially the Groeca Europcea and ferox. Of the lizard kind, the draccena, amboi- nensis agilis, and iguana, are eaten. The flesh of the last is said to be de- licious, but unwholesome, especially to those affected with syphilis, which, however, is a vulgar prejudice. The lacertus scincus, (sconk) is held in estimation by the natives of the east, as an aphrodiniac. The eggs of the iguana, and of most species of tes- tudo, even of those whose flesh is said to be bad, as of the Imbucato, are nutritious and agreeable. The flesh of the colubic natrix is eaten in some places; and the viper itself, whose bite is poisonous, furnishes a nutritious broth to invalids. The rana esculenta of the frogs is an epicurean dish with our Continental neighbours. The bull frog, in the opinion of our transatlantic descen- dants, rivals the turtle. The rana combina, though a toad, is also eaten in some places as fish. There are doubtless many other reptiles eaten as food in some coun- tries, nor are we aware of a single instance where injurious effects have been produced by any that has hi- therto been tried. This flesh in ge- neral seems to be delicate and gela- tinous; the fibre to resemble that of chicken or veal, and what is called the green fat of turtle is in reality gelatinous, like the skin of a calf’s head, or the tendons of ox-heel, which are employed to make an imitation of it. We are but little acquainted with the circumstances which influence the quality of reptiles, as esculent, but modern gourmands say the best size of a turtle for taste is from sixty to eighty pounds, which is scarcely a tenth part of the size to which they attain; and it may be presumed, that like most other oviparous animals, they are best before they begin to lay their eggs, and are out of season sometime after. Turtles frequently become emaciated before they reach this country; in this case the soup made from them would be incom- parably improved by adding a good calf’s head to it. They ai-e well known as a nourishing and palatable food. Hence, of this class {Amphibia) the following are most commonly employed, viz. the green and land turtles, the edible frog or green water frog, the common lizard, the sconk; of serpents, the viper, and the adder. The esculent frog, though not very nutritious, tastes much like chicken; the viper and adder are chiefly used in soups, which are considered as great restoratives. FOOD FROM INSECTS AND WORMS. —With the exception of various spe- cies of the crab, insects are not used in substance as food. Of this class the following may be enumerated as ordinary aliment. The common crab, the black clawed crab, the lobster, the craw-fish, the prawn, the shrimp, the white shrimp. Under this class the honey of the bee may be ranked, which in its general alimentary pro- perties, agrees with sugar; it is, however, rather more heating, and will not agree with many stomachs. It is best eaten from the comb, as the wax seems to correct its unplea- sant effects.*—See Honey. * The Moors in the West of Barbary, esteem as delicious, honey-comb with