GA GA 142 This fish, well known in our markets, abounds in the Northern seas. Its flesh is white, tender, and delicious. When salted, it is also well flavoured, and in general esteem.—See Cod. 3. Gadus JEglefinux. — The had- dock. An inhabitant of the Northern seas of Europe. The larger ones are much esteemed during the winter; the smaller ones for summer use. They are easy of digestion. Salted and dried, they are eaten at break- fast time as a delicacy.—’See Had- dock. 4. Gadus Minutus.—Very small, never exceeding six or seven inches in length. It is found in the Medi- terranean in great abundance, where it is called a capelan, or an officier. 5. Gadus Merlang us.—The whiting. A delicate white fish, in great abund- ance in the Irish seas, and German Ocean.—See Whiting. G. Gadus Pollacius.—The whiting pollock, found on the rocky coasts of Britain, and other parts of Europe. It is in great esteem for the table. 7. Gadus Carhonarius.—The coal- fish. Very abundant on the rocky parts of the Northern coasts of the northern parts of this island, about the Orkneys and the coast of York- shire, where they grow to the extent of two and three feet long, and con- stitute the chief support of the poor. 8. Gadus Merluccius. The hake.— A native of the North and Mediter- ranean seas, not much eaten, except by the poorer classes, when dried; in which state it is called Poor John, or Stock-fish. 9. Gadus Molva. The ling.—This grows to the length of five or six feet. It is not so good as the morhua, when fresh; but dried and salted it is much esteemed, and is the com- mon food of the poor in Cornwall, where it is prepared for exportation. 10. Gadus Lota. — The Burbot. The flesh of this fish is considered delicious, and of easy digestion. 11. Gadus Brosme.—The Torsk. This fish swarms in the seas about the Shetland islands, and forms a considerable article of commerce, either dried or salted, or packed in barrels. GALLS. — Astringent; used in dying : and the powder, mixed with hogs’ lard, enters into the compo- sition of an ointment for the piles. The decoction of galls serves also as a test to detect the presence of iron in malt liquors.—See Iron, Sulphate of. When beer is suspected to contain copperas, or salt of steel, officinally called sulphate of iron, take two wine glasses, and fill them with the suspected beer; place them in a good light, and add a few drops of the decoction of galls, and let it be u'ell stirred and compared with the colour of the beer in the other glass. If the one into which the solution of galls was poured be in the least degree changed, that is, become blacker than the other, it may with certainty be concluded that such beef is impregnated with some chalybeate particles, which will the more evidently appear if the two glasses be examined again after having remained for four and twenty hours undisturbed :—in this case a blackish sediment will be deposited at the bottom of the glass.—See Gold, Muriate of; and Potass, Prussiate of. A still nicer test, with the decoc- tion of galls, is to boil down gently a gallon of the suspected beer to a pint, and then, by the addition of the galls, the effects will be more ob- vious. But if no additional change of colour (blackness) be produced, it is evident the liquor is not adul- terated with the salt of steel, or sul- phate of iron.—See New Test Book, by a Practical Chemist, pp. IS, 19. GARLICK. — A bulbous root, used as a condiment, possessing the same principles and producing the same effects as onions. “ it provokes urine, dissolves the stone in the kid- neys and bladder, excites venery, re- sists certain poisons and pernicious atmospheric influences.” Culpepper.