HE HE 164 has found the most successful, ca- -lumba root with magnesia, in doses of ten grains of the former to twelve of the latter. It is remarked by Dr. Darwin, that as the saliva swallowed along with our food prevents its fermentation, considerable relief is sometimes derived from frequently chewing parched wheat, mastic, or a lock of wool, and swallowing the spittle thus secreted into the mouth. When acidity in the stomach, how- ever, is the exciting cause, there are few medicines that can more fully be depended on than soap. “ It is often,” says Dr. Cullen, “a more convenient remedy than common absorbents or simple alkalies.” If the pain be very severe, tlie benefi- cial operation of tbe soap will be materially assisted by combining it with opium, (a quarter of a grain of the latter, with five grains of the former). Cullen further observes, that he has found nothing but opium that will give it real relief; and he afterwards adds, “but this relieves only the present fit, and contributes nothing to the prevention of future attacks. Hence, in every case, the views of the medical practitioner should be directed to tbe second intention—namely, to prevent a re- currence of the paroxysm; which can only be effectually done by re- s to ring the stomach to its proper tone. (SeeIndigestion). The warmer bitters, the metallic oxyds, especially those of zinc and bismuth, first mentioned by Odier, bid fairest for success. Of the bitters, one of the most elegant as well as most bene- ficial, is the extract of camomile; yet the dog’s camomile (matricaria chamomilla) seems to rival its powers, and has often been found a very active and useful stomachic in most debilities of the stomach. The diet of people attacked with, or labouring under any predisposi- tion to this complaint, should consist of articles least disposed to run into fermentation—as animal food gene- rally, shell-fish, biscuits; and the liquid aliment, or drink, should con- sist of weak brandy and water, toast and water, lime, or most of the mineral waters.—See Indigestion. HEAT, HOW APPLIED IN CgOK- ery. —Whatever may be the fuel from which heat is produced, it is applied in various ways to the sub- stances to be cooked, either directly or indirectly. Asa radiant heat, it is applied directly in the process of wasting, in which the effects are en- tirely produced by the rays of heat impinging directly upon the sub- stances placed at a short distance before it; for this purpose a clear glowing fire is necessary, and the bars of a good roasting grate should impede as little as possible the radi- ation of heat. Another very direct mode of ap- plying beat, is placing the substance over the fire by suspending it in the' stream of heated air ascending from it, or laying it directly on the burn- ing fuel, or on bars, or on a plate of iron, or other substances capable of supporting heat; broiling is the result of this method of application. Heat is often employed through the in- tervention of fluids, chiefly of water or steam, and in boiling or stewing, or of some oily substance, as in frying. The peculiarity of baking consists in the substance being heated in a confined space, which- does not permit the escape of the fumes arising from it. To understand well the theory of cookery, the action of heat upon the various constituents of alimentary substances must be attended to, as applied directly or indirectly, through the medium of some fluid: in the former way, as exemplified in the processes of roasting and boiling, the chief constituents of animal substances undergo the following change: the fibrine is corrugated, the albumen is coagulated, the gela- tine and osmazome rendered more soluble in water, the fat liquified,