TR TR 359 elastic, and clear-coloured. The flesh is also firm, and the individual feels himself light, and full of spirits; though, in the progress of training, the condition of the man may be ascertained by the effects of the sweats, which cease to reduce his weight; and by the manner in which he performs one mile at the top of his speed. “ It is as difficult to run a mile at the top of one’s speed, as to walk a hundred;” and, therefore, if he performs this short distance well, it may be concluded tliat his condition is perfect, or that he has derived all the advantages which can possibly result from the training process.* * On the principles of training here laid down, those appli- whence a sense of faintness, loss of ap- petite, and inability to digest solid food, will be experienced ; a fact, explaining the diminished appetite of which persons complain in hot weather, and that uni- versal custom in tropical climates, of combining the food with large quantities of aromatic stimulants. One of the most striking instances indicative of this concert between the skin and the sto- mach is to be met with in cases where cold or wet has been applied to the lower extremities; often producing vo- miting, &c. * The manner in which horse-jockeys are trained differs from that applicable to pedestrians and pugilists. As regards jockeys, the object is to reduce their weight, upon the wasting system, by means of purgatives, emetics, sudorifics, and low diet. Their bodily strength is of little importance, as they have only to manage the reins of the racer, whose fleetness depends upon the weight he carries; and the muscular power of the rider is of no consequence to the race, provided it be equal to the fatigue of a three or four-mile heat. Training for pugilism is nearly the same as for pedestrianism, the object in both being principally to obtain additonalvvind and strength; hence training for health and a good condition of body is the same, according to constitution; the whole being founded on the due regulation of the non-naturals. cable to convalescents and valetudi- narians may be modified, and the diet, exercise, sleep, and other non- naturals, regulated by consulting the different articles relating thereto, under their respective heads. TREACLE (Molasses). — A very impure refuse of sugar, from which it drips, though it is susceptible of being employed in a new ebullition,by which a second quantity of sugar may be obtained from it. The remainder of the molasses is employed to yield rum by distillation. The French pre- pare from the mixture of molasses with water, a species of wine of good quality. In its preparation, the solu- tion is brought into fermentation, then passed through strainers to purify it, then put into casks; and after clearing it in these, transferred into others, in which it is to be pre- served for use.'—See Sugar. TREACLE, VENICE.—A com- position which originally consisted of but few ingredients ; namely, twenty leaves of rue, two walnuts, two figs, and a little salt. It is named Mithri- datium, after Mithridates king of Pontus, who experiencing the virtues of the simples separately, afterwards combined them. Of the above pre- paration Mitbridates, we are inform- ed, took a dose every morning, to guard himself against the effects of poison. A preparation resembling it is still made at Apothecaries’ Hall, though seldom used. There are, how- ever, some physicians of the present day who prescribe it, in the dose of from ten grains to a scruple, against nervous irritations. TROPiEOLUM MAJUS.— The systematic name of the Indian cress, greater Indian cress, or nasturtium. This plant is a native of Peru: it was first carried to France in 1684, and there called the Grand Capucin. In its recent state, and more espe- cially its flowers, it has a smell and taste resembling those of water-cress; and the leaves on being bruised in a mortar, emit a pungent odour, some-