SM SM 297 abdomen retarded to the great detri- ment of health. The most proper posture then in bed is on one side, with the body and limbs gently curved, so that the upper parts of the fabric may be higher than the lower. When the head is placed high a short sleep is more refreshing than when it lies too low. Sleep without dreams, of whatever nature they may be, is more salutary than when attended with such fancies. Dreams, never- theless, of an agreeable kind, pro- mote the free circulation of the fluids, the better digestion of the food, and an efficient state of the perspiratory medium.—(See Perspiration). The contrary takes place in unpleasant dreams, which excite anxiety, terror, grief, fear, and other depressing passions. In the latter case, they are symptoms of irregularity in the system, of an approaching disor- der, or they are occasioned by an improper posture in the bed. The functions of the body, as already ob- served, are obstructed by such dreams, and the animal spirits which require to be renovated and supported, are exhausted hy violent emotions, in- somuch that the functions both of body and mind are in a state of ex- haustion rather than in one of revi- goration. To people in a good state of health it is probably of no great importance on which side they lie, and though, in this respect, they may fairly follow their own feelings, it would never- theless be an amelioration were they to accustom themselves to alternate the position. It has been alleged by some dietetical observers, that it is better to lie in the evening on the right side, and in the morning on the left, upon the consideration that in the evening the aliment may more readily leave the stomach ; and that afterwards this organ may be better warmed by the liver.—See Digestion, Suppers, Sfc. SMALL HEMLOCK.—This has often been mistaken for parsley and has produced deleterious effects. The hemlock dropworth (venanthe crocata) is also an active poison, and it has too often proved fatal by being eaten in mistake instead of water parsnep. The root of this plant is not unplea- sant to the taste ; it is esteemed to be the most deleterious of all the vege- tables which this country produces. It is related that some French pri- soners at Pembroke who had been out in the field a little before noon had partaken of this root, which they supposed to be celery, and were near being destroyed; though they all ultimately were recovered from its effects, excepting one. At Clonmel, in Ireland, eight boys, mistaking this plant for water parsnep, ate plenti- fully of its roots; about four or five hours afterwards the eldest boy be- came suddenly convulsed and died: and before the next morning four of the other boys died in a similar man- ner. Of the other three one was maniacal, one was maniacal several hours, another lost his hair and nails, but the third escaped unhurt. Nu- merous other cases are recorded both at home and abroad of fatal effects from mistaking this plant for either celery or water parsnep. SMELL.—Smell is exerted essen- tially at the moment when the air traverses the nasal fossae in proceed- ing towards the lungs. When the air proceeds from the lungs easily, an odour is perceived; though this may occasionally in organic diseases of the chest. The mechanism of smell is extremely simple; it being merely necessary that the odorife- rous particles should be stopped upon the pituitary membrane,* par- ticularly in places where it receives the filaments of the olfactory nerves, * Schneiderian membrane. The mucous membrane that lines the nostrils and sinuses communicating with the nose is thus called, because it secretes the mucus of those parts, to which the ancients assigned the name of pituila.