327 TE TE To the abuse of tea may be ascribed in a great measure the increased frequency of consumption and many of the disorder’s of children, especi- ally hydrocephalus (water in the head) rickets, &c., may be traced to the same source.” “The tea leaf, when fresh from the tree, is evidently poisonous. It is true that it loses some of its acri- mony by drying, but even in the state in which it is sent to this coun- try it retains much of its narcotic nature. What serious mischief then are they bringing upon themselves, who, as is the case with too many of the lower classes of society, make it a principal part of their daily sub- sistence ! The money which should go to purchase wholesome and sub- stantial food, is squandered away in procuring what of itself affords no nourishment at all; for whatever nourishment is derived from the in- fusion of tea, is owing to the sugar and milk which are added to it, and were it not for these additions its deleterious effects would be much more powerfully felt. The time, it is hoped, is not far distant when the poor shall be enlightened upon this important point. The next genera- tion will hardly believe that their predecessors took such extraordinary delight in defrauding their body of its proper aliment, and in bringing upon themselves infirmity and dis- ease. Let the rich and the intem- perate indulge, if they choose, in the narcotic draught; to their heated and oppressed stomachs it may do no harm, it may even afford momen- tary relief—but let the poor abstain from it; they have no feverish thirst, no feverish heat to allay after their noon repast. To them it is totally unnecessary as a help to digestion, and as an article of sustenance it is worthless and improper; they would therefore be better, infinitely better, without it. Besides its narcotic qua- lity, there is another property of the tea leaf which renders its continued use injurious to the constitution; we mean its astringency. Add to these the warm water, and we have in this unnatural beverage, the infusion of tea, three different powers concurring to disorders, first, the organs of digestion, and ultimately the whole system. “ If it be asked what are those who have been long accustomed to tea to substitute in its place ? We answer, milk, milk porridge, gruels, broth, cocoa, or the like for breakfast. And in the afternoon milk and water; orgeat, or lemonade in the summer, and coffee in the winter. It should be understood that the preceding re- marks apply to the general abuse of tea as an article of sustenance ; for its occasional employment in a diet- etical and medicinal way in some kinds of sickness is often of use. Thus the simple infusion, without sugar or milk, is a good diluent and sedative in ardent fevers, and as it promotes perspiration and urine it is frequently drunk with advantage in colds, catarrhs, rheumatism, &c. It is also serviceable in cases of surfeit and indigestion.” The Chinese know nothing of im- perial tea, flower of tea, and many other names, which in Europe serve to distinguish the goodness and the price of this fashionable commodity : but besides the common tea they have two other kinds, viz., the voui and soumlo, which are reserved for people of the first quality and those who are sick. We have two principal kinds of tea in Europe, viz., green tea, which is the common tea of the Chi- nese, &c., which is gathered from the plant in April: it is held to be very digestive and a little astringent; it gives a palish green tincture to water and its leaves are much twisted. The second is bohea tea, which is the voui tea, or bau tcha of the Chinese. F. leCompte makes this only differ from the green tea, by its being gathered a month before, viz., in March, while in the bud, and hence