294 SK SI - once having been actually knighted by one of our kings,* in a fit of royal condescension and jocularity, is now denominated sirloin. This ample joint has given rise to a well-known popular ballad, styled “The roast beef of old England;” and it still continues to cut a conspicuous figure at the tables of all “ who hospitably live, And strangers with good cheer re- ceive.”! Two sirloins joined together, without having the back bone cut asunder, are called a baron of beef. Thomson places the sirloin at the head of his autumnal feast: “ First the fuell’d chimney blazes wide; The tankards foam; and the strong table groans Beneath the smoking sir-loin, stretched immense From side to side, in which, with des- perate knife, They deep incision make, and talk the while Of England’s glory, ne’er to be defaced, While hence they borrow vigour.” SISYMBRIUM.—The name of a genus of plants in the Linnsean sys- tem, so named from their fringed roots. Class, Tetradynamia; order, Siliquosa. SISYMBRIUM NASTURTIUM —The systematic name of the water cress, called also Nasturtium aquati- cum.—See Water Cresses. SITIOLOGY. — (Derived from two Greek words, signifying aliment, and a discourse). A doctrine or treatise on aliment. SIUM.—The name of a genus of plants in the Linnsean system. Class, * The second Charles, the merry king. See “ The Knighthood of Sir- Loin,” in a work entitled “ The Merry Droll.” f The hospitality of real benevolence gives what is plain and substantial, with kind looks, kind manners, and a hearty welcome. Pentandria; order, Siliquosa. The creeping water-parsnip [Slum nodi- florum), a plant admitted into the Pharmacopoeias, as possessing anti- scorbutic properties. It is not nau- seous, and children may take it readily, if mixed with milk. SIUM SISARUM.—See Skirret. SKATE.—When good, skate are very white and thick; if dressed too fresh, they are hard and unpleasant to the taste; they should therefore be kept a day or two, but not long enough to produce an unpleasant smell. SKATE, To Boil.—Put it into a fish kettle, with cold spring water, and plenty of salt; as soon as it boils set it aside, to simmer gently till done, and serve it up on a fish plate, with anchovy sauce in a boat. SKATE, To Fry. — The skate must be nicely crimped, then tossed on an egg, beaten up with pepper and salt, then on crumbs of bread, laying them on paper as they are done: have ready a stewpan nearly full of lard; when very hot, put in two or three pieces at a time to fry quickly, and when thoroughly done, put them on paper to drain from the fat. Serve them up in a dish gar- nished with fried parsley, and shrimp sauce in a boat. SKINK (Scincus). — An amphi- bious animal of the lizard species; caught about the Nile, and thence brought in a dried state to this countiy. It is remarkably smooth and glossy as if varnished. The flesh of the animal, particularly the belly part, has been said to be diure- tic, alexipharmic,* aphrodisiacf, and useful in leprous disorders. * A medicine supposed to preserve the body against the power of poisons, or to correct or expel those taken. The an- cients attributed this property to some vegetables, and even waters distilled from them. They, however, are now but seldom used. t That which excites a desire for venery.