WA WA 384 WATER, MEDICINAL PRO- PERTIES OF.—If there is in na- ture a medicine that deserves the name of universal, it is in our opinion common water. The use of it is so general and so necessary to us all, that we can neither live nor preserve our bodies sound and healthy, with- out it, for it guards against every disease, protects .and defends the body from all kinds of corruption that may prove fatal to life, and an- swers all possible intentions of cures, so that without it no disorder, whe- ther chronic or acute, can be hap- pily and successfully removed. In confirmation of this opinion, we shall not insist on the medicinal springs, whether hot or cold, nor attempt to prove their salutary virtues in sub- duing various disorders, hut confine ourselves entirely to common water, the universal use of which we at present design to recommend. But since there is a great differ- ence between different writers, we are carefully to inquire which are best calculated for answering this medicinal intention. The true way of examining whether the waters are pure, is by chemical experiments, two of which we have singled out for our own use, and recommended to others, as exactly discovering the purity or impurity of waters. The first is by dropping into them oil of tartar, and the second a solution of silver in aquafortis. If the waters are pure, such as rain water, water distilled and some sorts of spring water, no al- teration will follow on dropping these liquors into them; but if gross and impure, they turn milk}' with oil of tartar (solution of potash), especially if they abound with a chalky earth, and the solution of silver turns im- pure water thick, grey coloured; and if they participate of iron almost red. The effects of waters also manifest their nature, subtility, and purity; thus, those that are light and soft seem best for mollifying the bones of animals, and the boiling of sea-fish. Bleachers find a remarkable differ- ence in waters, the softer and fatter sorts serving better to wash and bleach, than such as are ponderous, hard, and take soap with difficulty. Bakers find, that the more soft and subtile waters make their bread rise well. Gardeners observe, that such waters as are light, subtile, and spi- rituous, are much better for their plants than hard. Masons, and makers of figures in plaister of Paris, find hard water the best, and can scarce work with soft, so as to give their work a proper degree of strength and firmness. Chemists find that rain water is best suited to wash their magisteries and metal- line powders, as readily dissolving the salts, which hard spring waters will scarcely affect. We daily observe in the domestic operations of brew- ing, washing, making tea, &c., that the more subtile and soft sorts are better than spring water. But for medicinal purposes we prefer rain water, being naturally distilled by the sun, and thus rendered subtile, and fitter for solutions, infusions, extracts, and all internal uses. How- ever, this water being mixed with various mineral, vegetable and ani- mal exhalations, is thence rendered easily corruptible, if exposed to the open air, or suffered to stand long in wooden vessels. The rain that falls in the month of March, will keep longer, as not then receiving so many effluvia: the better to fit this water for medicinal use, it should be kept in earthen vessels stopped close, and thus if it be collected, not in cities and towns, from the spouts of houses, but in the open fields, it may be kept sound and fit for service several years. Next to rain water in point of goodness is that of rivers, but as rivers proceed from springs, situated in high and mountainous places, and as rains increase these springs, which, running over vast tracts of land, absorb many different matters from the earth, hence rivers become more