CA 59 CA become rigid, dry, and difficult of digestion; it is little used at the tables of the great. A capon, on the contrary, which is not subject to the same heat as the cock, does not sustain the same loss; and thus the most spirituous and balsamic parts of his blood being retained, they contribute to give his flesh better juice and a higher flavour. In choosing a capon, take that which is young, tender, fat, well fed, and bred in a pure and serene air. The flesh of capons is very nourish- ing, produces good juices, is restora- tive, recovers decayed strength, good in consumptive cases; especially die broth, which wonderfully strengthens and nourishes the sick and convales- cent. CAPSICUM.—Guinea pepper. A native of the East and West Indies; is in long, roundish, taper pods, di- vided into two or three cellsful of small whitish seeds: when fresh, it has a penetrating, acrid smell, and an acrid and very pungent taste, pro- ducing a painful burning in the mouth for some time after. A spe- cies of this pepper, but much smaller, is called in the West Indies, bird pepper, and is the basis of a powder brought from thence, called cayenne pepper. It is a very strong sti- mulant, and may be given in the same diseases as cinnamon, and other stimuli. It is also used to give an artificial strength to spirituous liquors, particularly British gin; as well as to give a pungent taste to weak beer; but, to avoid detection, the brewers mostly use the concentrated tinc- tures ; and ginger, coriander seed, and orange-peel, are used to flavour it: besides these, opium, cocculus indicus, nux vomica, tobacco, and extract of poppies, are used to in- crease the intoxicating qualities.— See Finings. CARP.—A fresh-water fish, and is met with in rivers, ponds, and marshes. In places where they can get food enough, they increase to a large size. Authors speak of carp in lakes, ten feet long. They feed on herbs, mud and slime, and breed fast. They live to a great age, which is proved by some monstrous carp found in ditches near towns. Gesner assures us, that he knew a man of good imputation, who affirmed to him, that he had seen a carp a hun- dred years old. Carp is easy of digestion, and affords pretty good food and nourish- ment. Those caught in rivers are the best. They should be well fed, fat, and not too young for the table. The tongue of a carp is an Epicure’s bit. CARDAMOMS.—A dried pod with seeds, brought from Malabar, in the East Indies: the best comes from Armenia on the Bosphorus. The seeds freed from the husks, are a warm and grateful aromatic; they do not, like those of the pepper kind, immediately heat and inflame the bowels; hence they certainly deserve the preference for common use. The tincture of cardamoms is an excellent and useful preparation ; an ounce of which to five of cinna- mon-water is an excellent corrector of wind on the stomach. Cardamom seeds should be kept with their husks, or they will lose a considerable portion of their virtues. They are frequently mixed with grains of paradise, which, though less aromatic in their flavour, are much hotter and more spicy. CARRAWAYS.—Among all the native spices few excel in medicinal virtues the common carraway. They are warm and carminative, and have an agreeable smell. Proof spirit extracts all their virtues ; the essen- tial oil also contains all their pro- perties. The powder may be given from twenty to thirty grains. The seeds are the mildest and most use- ful carminative we have. To people of a weak digestion, troubled with flatulency and colics, they afford the most certain relief, if used in suffi-