380 WA WA Bethlehem, as providing vinegar for his reapers, into which they might dip their bread, and kindly inviting the amiable Ruth to share with them in their repast; hence it may be inferred that the harvesters, at that period, partook of this liquid for their refreshment, a custom still prevalent in Italy and Spain. There was, however, a kind of potent vinegar, which was not proper for drinking, at least, till well diluted.—(See Psalm Ixix, 21, and compare Prov. x, 26). We must distinguish then between that vinegar and small wine, which was used as a drink, and that which was of considerable strength, and employed in sauces. Some sup- pose that oil was usually mingled with the vinegar, which was taken as a beverage. The Algerines even indulge their miserable captives with a small portion of oil to the vinegar which they allow them with their bread. Mr. Joseph Pitts, who was taken prisoner by the Algerines and sold for a slave, in the account of the treatment which he and his companions received from these now subjugated pirates, of which he com- plains with some asperity, says that his allowance was five or six spoon- fuls of vinegar, half a spoonful of olive oil, a small quantity of black biscuit, a pint of water, and a few olives a day. VINEGAR, AROMATIC. — Commonly used as an odorament, and is an elegant improvement of the vinaigre de quatre voleurs. VORACITY—(See Gluttony). w. WATER.—Water is a transparent colourless fluid, without taste or smell, in a very slight degree compressible. When pure, it is not liable to spon- taneous change; it is liquid at the common temperature of our atmo- sphere, assuming the solid form, at 32° of Fahrenheit, and gaseous at 212°; but retui-ning unaltered to its liquid state, on resuming any degree of heat between these points. It is capable of dissolving a greater num- ber of natural bodies than any other fluid whatever, more particularly those known by the name of saline. It also performs the most important functions in the vegetable and ani- mal kingdoms, and enters largely into their composition, as a consti- tuent part. The simple waters are the following: 1. Distilled Water. 2. Rain Water. 3. Ice and Snow Water. 4. Spring Water. 5. River Water. 6. Stagnated Water. 1. Water, distilled.—This is the lightest form of all others, holding neither solid nor gaseous substances in solution ; is perfectly void of taste and smell—colourless, and beauti- fully transparent—has a soft feel, and wets the fingers more readily than any other. 11 mixes uniformly with soap, into a smooth opaline mixture; but it may be added to a solution of soap, in spirit of wine, without injuring its transparency. The clearness of distilled water is not impaired by the most delicate chemical re-agents, such as lime water, a solution of barytes in any acid, nitrated silver, or acid of sugar. When evaporated in a silver vessel, it leaves no residuum; if preserved from access with foreign matter floating in the ail-, it may be kept for ages unaltered, in vessels upon which it has no action, as it does not possess within itself the power of decompo- sition. As it freezes exactly at 32° of Fahrenheit, and boils at 212°, under the atmospherical pressure of 29. 8 inches, these points are made use of as the standard ones for ther- mometrical division, and its specific