MU 212 MU pernicious. The edible mushrooms at first appear of a roundish form, like a button ; the upper part and the stalk are very thin; the under part is of a livid flesh-colour; but the fleshy part when broken, is very white. When they are suffered to remain undisturbed, they will grow to a larger size, and expand themselves almost to a flatness, and the red part underneath will change to a dark colour. Poisonous mushrooms maybe dis- tinguished from the edible ones by their botanical characters, and by the following characteristics. They grow in wet shady places, have a nauseous odour, and are softer, more open and porous; have a dirty- looking surface, sometimes a gaudy colour and many very distinct hues, particularly if they have been covered with an envelope; they have soft bulbous stalks, grow rapidly, and corrupt very quickly. The following Catalogue of Edible and Poisonous Mushrooms is taken from Sowerby’s splendid work on English fungi. EDIBLE SORTS. Agaricus Campestris (1), common field, a cultivated mushroom. A. Chantarellus (2), chanterelle. A. Violaceous (3), violet or blue. (1) There are several species of aga- ric that go by this term ; as the agaricus edulus, chanterellus, deliciosus, violace- ous, &cc.; but the eatable mushroom of this country, is the agaricus campestris of Linnaeus. Similar to it in quality is the champignon. Broiled, with salt and pepper, or stewed with cream and some aromatic, they are extremely delicious ; and if not eaten to excess, salubrious. Great care should be taken to ascertain that they are the true fungi. (2) The agaricus chanterellus is es- teemed a delicacy by the French. Broil- ed, with salt and pepper, it has much the flavour of a roasted cockle. (3) The violet mushroom requires much boiling, but when sufficiently done and seasoned, it is as delicious as an A. Cinnammeus (4), cinnamon. A. Deliciosus (5), sweet mush- room. A. Pratensis (6), champignon. A. Lactifluus, milky. A. Procerus (7), the grisette of the French, or tall. A. Aurantiacus, orange. A. Solitarius, solitary. A. Virginius, mauseron mush- room. A. Orcades, fairy ring, or Scotch bonnets. DANGEROUS SORTS. Agaricus campestris, var., danger- ous variety of cultivated mushroom. A. Clypeatus, long stalked. A. Muscarius, reddish. A. Piperatus (8), pepper. A. Campanulatus, bell. A. Mamimosus, nipple. A. Aurantiacus, var., dangerous variety of orange mushroom. A. Necator A. Vinosus, poisonous or toad- stool. oyster. Hudson’s bulbosus is only a variety of this. (4) Brown mushroom. This species of agaric is of a pleasant smell. When broiled it gives a good flavour. (5) This fungus, well seasoned and then broded, has the exact flavour of a roasted muscle. It is in season in Sep- tember. Care must be taken not to con- found it with the agaricus necator, or therologus galus, which have yellow milk and are deleterious. (6) The champignon of Hudson’s Flora Anglica. This plant has but little smell, and is rather dry; yet when broiled and stewed, communicates a good flavour. (7) This is the best, and the most usually eaten of those the gills of which do not melt into a black liquor. (8) The plant thus named by Lin- naeus is the pepper mushroom; also called pepper agaric. When freely taken, fatal consequences are related by several writers to have been the result. When this vegetable has even lost its acrid juice by drying, its caustic quality still remains.