TR TR 357 prohibits the use of soap in these washings; why, he does not inform us. We can see no harm, but the contrary, in the moderate use of soap; though it does act injuriously, as we have seen, on the delicate skins of fine ladies. Soap, however, may be abused; for it may strip the skin of too much of its natural oil, and, by thus rendering it too dry, it may obstruct the pores, and stop perspiration. The cold bath is re- commended by Jackson, three times a week; and he very properly prefers sea bathing to fresh water bathing. But if it is inconvenient to go to the sea side, a quantity of salt thrown into the cold bath will render it better. The use of the salt is to smart and stimulate the skin, and consequently to open its pores.— Jackson says, that the shorter time a person remains in the water the better; and we believe this agrees with experience, though we are not quite clear about the philosophy of the thing. Fewterell recommends the arms and loins to be washed with cold water. We should object to the Joins, as likely to cause colic and other evils, except when the whole body is washed at the same time, which diminishes the hazard of this occurrence. Jackson again informs us, that it is of great advan- tage to prevent colds, to have the feet bathed in cold water every morn- ing. This we should, for the same reason, disapprove of, except in the case of a general bath; or if it is done, we should say that the feet ought to be suddenly plunged into the cold water, and as suddenly withdrawn, and instantly rubbed dry. Friction in Training.—This is a point in which we think the ancient Athletae excelled the modern trainers. In training race horses, indeed, it is much better understood and more employed than in the more important training of men. On the principles just laid down, we say, that if you rub the skin till it glow, you will stimulate the pores into healthy ac- tion, and also draw to the part rub- bed a great quantity of blood, as you will see by the increased redness of the part. Now all the perspiration must come from the blood; and con- sequently, if you both open the pores of the skin and bring thither a greater flow of blood, you will, to a cer- tainty, increase the perspiration— and, of course, reduce your fat, and improve your wind. The only friction mentioned by Jackson is performed after hard ex- ercise, and particularly after the morning run, when he recommends the skin to be rubbed dry, and im- mediately clothed, one limb after another. We should advise the daily use of the flesh-brush, for not less than a quarter of an hour, morning and evening. Nothing acts more powerfully on the wind, and on the process of digestion. Abstinence and Continence in Train- ing.—We have already adverted to the necessity for strict abstinence from all excess and indulgence of the appetite, in food and liquor. It is even more important that, if the person under training is married, he should sleep out of his own house; and if unmarried, must submit to a similar precaution. This is the judicious precept of John Hall, of Beverly; and we believe it is fol- lowed by Jackson and Capt. Barclay. The ancients were also well aware of its importance; hence the verse of the Roman poet, respecting the man who wished to excel in the race— “ abstinuit Venere et Baccho ”—he quite renounced both love and wine. Although, as observed, the prin- cipal thing to be attended to in train- ing depends upon sweating, exercise, and feeding, yet the object to be ob- tained would be defeated if these were not adjusted, each to the other, and to the constitution of the individual, with which the trainer should make himself perfectly acquainted. If a man retains his health and spirits