DI DI 96 mulating diet than any other; and both seasoning and stimulating drink will prove less hurtful to such a con- stitution; the chief consideration is to guard against corpulence. Where a dry habit prevails, young meats, fruits, and fresh vegetables, form the best regimen; and, in point of drink, good wine, diluted with water, or home-brewed malt liquors, are to be preferred. On this subject, the following Epitome of Dietetical Precepts may be beneficially con- sulted. a. When a larger quantity of food is consumed than the digestive or- gans can assimilate into chyle, it can never be converted into good nou- rishment. b. Food too highly seasoned with salt or pungent spices and oils, cor- rupt the blood. c. People of gross habits, and fe- verish constitutions, should eat spar- ingly. Unseasonable abstinence is also attended with bad consequences : for without a fresh supply of chyle, animal juices naturally acquire pu- trescency. Inanition produces fevers of the worst sort; as those who fast too religiously feel frequently, to their cost, the insidious consequences. In all chronic disorders, such a quantity of food is to he taken as is sufficient to support, not overload, the stomach. The weak, emaciated, hectic, or consumptive, ought to ob- serve the strictest regimen. To such, excess in any thing is attended with the most perilous consequences. Na- ture abhors discordant mixtures: fish, flesh, wine, beer, cider, cream, and fruit. These distend the bowels with wind, and prevent digestion. Bread made of the purest flour of wheat nourishes much and binds the belly: mixed with bean flour it is opening and less nourishing. The farinacea are all antiseptics. Wheat bread, properly fermented, and well baked, is the most valuable part of diet.—See Bread. Milk is already elaborated, pre- pared, and digested in the body of the animal. It is an extract of ani- mal and vegetable food. It is re- plete with nutritious juices, and wants little else than the colour to be blood. Where feverish heat pre- dominates, in costive habits especi- ally, buttermilk and brown bread are timely specifics.—See Milk. Sea-salt, moderately used, is very wholesome, and the reverse if taken in excess.—See Salt. The flesh of animals in the prime of life, of such as are castrated, and not used to hard labour, is best. The flesh of graniverous birds is not so oily as that of water-fowls. Mutton is the best flesh for the delicate; beef and pork are proper only for the strong, and those who use hard ex- ercise.—See Food, Animal, Sfc. Pond fish, or such as are fat, are hard of digestion; such as are caught near the shore are lighter. Boiled fish is lighter than roasted.—See Fish. Bitters bind the belly; acids gripe the bowels; salted things promote stool and urine; sweet things breed phlegm.—Celsus. Onions, leeks, radishes, and all the alkalescents, are antiseptic; mustard and cress occasion a heat and diffi- culty of urine; celery is diuretic; aromatics heat; colewort and let- tuce cool; cucumbers are cold, crude, and hai’d to digest; ripe fruits open the belly; unripe bind and gripe; pulses of all sorts are windy; honey promotes urine and stools, but gripes many; soft bread increases acidity in the stomachs of those troubled with heartburns; biscuits, less; con- fectionary and dainties tempt people too much, and are hard of diges- tion. Where the aliment ferments too violently, from putrescency of the stomach, acids, bitters, aroma- tics, and alkalescents are proper. If cold cacoliymy be added to bad ha- bits, the patient ought to abstain from farinaceous foods and jellies, because these increase the tenacity of the humours. If the body begins