216 NI NE N. NECTAR.—A wine made from honey. NECTARINE.—See Peach Tree. NECTARIUM. (Lat.)—(Derived from Nectar, because it contains a sweet, honey-like fluid). In botany it means the nectary or lioney-cup. An accidental part of a flower which does not come under the description of any of its organs. It may he defined, that part of the corolla which contains, or which secretes honey, though it is not necessary to a nectary that honey be present. Scarce a flower is to be found that has not more or less honey, though it is far from universally, or even generally, formed by an apparatus separate from the petals. In mono- petalous * flowers, or the lamium album, the dead nettle, the tube of the corolla contains, and probably secretes, the honey without any evi- dent nectary. The most indubit- able, however, of all nectaries, as actually secreting honey, are those of a glandular kind. In the natural order of cruciform plants, composing the class tetradynamia, f there are generally four green glands at the base of the stamens, as in dent- aria, X and sesisymbrium, whilst in Pelargonium the nectary is a tube running down one side of the flower stalk. The elegant parnassia has a most elaborate apparatus or nectary. (Smith). Vauxliall nectar (mock arack), i. e. made with rum, two * A flower, having only one petal (the name of the coloured leaflets of a flower), as that of the convolvolus pri- mula, &c. f A word of Greek derivation, signify- ing six stamens, four longer than the other two. | Plumbago Europasa, the systematic name of the tooth-wort. Dentaria. Dentillaria. pints; flowers of benjamin, twenty grains. NITROGEN. —A simple sub- stance, called azote by the French chemists. It enters into a Variety of compounds, and forms more than three parts in four of the atmosphe- ric air. The existence of nitrogen ! gas, as distinct from any other gaseous substance, was first noticed by Dr. Rutherford, in 1772. La- voisier, who called it azote, because it is unable to support the respiration ; of animals, discovered that it is a constituent part of the atmosphere in 1775; and the same discovery was ] made soon after, or about the same ! time, by Sclieele. Pure nitrogen is a colourless gas, j wholly devoid of smell and taste. It does not change the colour of vege- tables, and is distinguished by other gases more by negative characters than by any striking quality. It does not support combustion; but, on the contrary, extinguishes all burning bodies that are immersed in it. No animal can live in it; still it exerts no injurious action either on the lungs, or on the system at large; the privation of oxygen being the sole cause of death. It is not inflammable, though, under favour- . able circumstances, it may be made to unite with oxygen. Water, when deprived of air by ebullition, takes : up about one and a half per cent, of j it. Its specific gravity is 0.9722, on the assumption that air consists of one measure of oxygen to four of nitrogen, and that 1.1111 is the spe- cific gravity of oxygen gas, and, therefore, 100 cubic inches of it, at the mean temperature and pressure, | will weigh 29,652 grains. Nitrogen gas is easily prepared by burning a piece of phosphorus in a jar full of air inverted over water. The strong affinity of phosphorus for