CII 63 CH infusion is emetic. The extract of chamomile flowers is an excellent stomachic, possessing little stimulus and favouring the natural action of the bowels, and is therefore a conve- nient and useful addition to other tonics which we 'wish to give in the form of pills, as preparations of iron, ipecacuan, carbonate of soda. The weak infusion of the flower greatly assists the action of emetics; and a wine-glass of a strong infusion drank in the morning, promotes digestion, and strengthens the stomach and bowels. The flowers are also used in fomentations. CHAMPAIGN. — A wine, the produce of a province in the south of France of the same name. Though one of the most delicious wines, champaign ought to be in- dulged in with great precaution. The piquancy of the flavour-, the racy tartness, and the sparkling brilliancy, are all dependent on the presence of an acid, which, if not obviated, is pro- ductive of deleterious consequences. The alcohol or spirit it contains, is, though little more than half the strength of port or Madeira, perhaps somewhat peculiar in exciting the stomach by its stimulus to greater action than it can well bear. The consequence, therefore, of excessive indulgence in this delightful and sparkling wine, is, that the stomach is fatigued with its bright and airy spirit, and actually over-delighted into weariness. It is not, therefore, to be wondered at, that champaign should, in such cases, bring on a fit of the gout, dispose to apoplexy, in- tolerable head-aches, cramp in the stomach, concretions in the gall blad- der, &c. with all the accompaniments of deranged digestion. “ The heat- ing, exciting, and certainly injurious qualities of champaign, with regard to gout, are much more remarkable than are found from any other liquor” {Scudamore on Gout). If then it has a tendency to bring on a first attack of gout, it need not be wondered that it is a ready occasional cause, in producing a return of this relentless disorder. The habitual indulgence of wines of this sort produces effects which are more lasting and severe, in proportion as it can be continued without inducing a paroxysm of the gout. Those who are desirous of en- joying their champaign without par- ticipating in its consequent evils, should add to it a few grains of mag- nesia, carbonate of soda, or spirit of hartshorn; and although the alkali may injure its tartness and piquancy, it will obviate the bad effects; but to save the flavour which is so exquisite with the amateurs of this rich drink, a little magnesia may be taken a few hours afterwards in a separate form.—See French Wines. CHAMPIGNONS.—See Mush- rooms. CHARCOAL. — Charcoal varies in its qualities, according to the wood from which it is prepared: that of the soft woods, as the willow, alder, &c., well burned, is best for crayons, for making gunpowder, and for clarifying liquids; that of the harder woods is used for fuel, or for a support to substances exposed to the flame of a blow-pipe. Char- coal pulverized is used as a tooth pow- der ; and in poultices to correct foetid ulcers; that of the areca-nut is the most fashionable dentifrice. (See Water, Purification of). The charcoal of the holly, if the bark be left on, i?;""supposed to render iron brittle when worked by a fire made of it. From the experiments of Lowitz, and others, charcoal is now well known to be the most powerful corrector of putridity, next, perhaps, to the gastric juice, out of the sto- mach ; hence we are able to account for the success with which it has been occasionally employed as an internal medicine on the Continent: the dose may be from half a scruple to a scru- ple, repeated three or four times a day. CHEEKS, HOG’S.—These used