SL SL 296 it with renewed vigour and cheerful- ness. The horizontal posture, par- ticularly in full habits, is rather an impediment to digestion, as the descent of the blood is somewhat retarded, and heaviness and pro- tracted sleep is the consequence. When the stomach is weak other means are used to facilitate digestion, such as taking bitters, alkalies, water impregnated with carbonic acid gas, and the like after a meal; the use also of spices, diluting the food, or cutting it into very small pieces. Digestion is also assisted by taking small quantities of food at a time, by which precaution the excitability of the food is never exhausted—a measure more especially necessary in debilitated stomachs. But the most injurious means of all is stimu- lating the stomach by distilled or fermented liquors ; for although such alternative may for the time being answer the purpose, it soon produces very bad effects, and greatly incom- modes the stomach. In a weak and slow state of diges- tion, after having taken hard or solid food, a short sleep may be indulged in, rather than after a meal consist- ing of much nourishment, as by its nature is easily digested. But young people of weak and delicate habits of body ought not to sleep too much, though their weakness induce them to repose; for the more they indulge in sleep the greater will be their sub- sequent languor and relaxation. In- dividuals again of a strong and healthy habit of body and who digest their food rapidly, may take gentle exercise after their meals, if they have taken food of an easily digestible na- ture, requiring but little assistance but that of the stomach and its fluids. And indeed, such persons, should they have taken aliment difficult of digestion, ought to remain quiet after dinner, and may occasionally allow themselves an hour’s sleep, in order to support digestion.—See Siesta. To the aged, emaciated, and those of an mutable habit of body, as well as to those who have spent the pre- ceding night uneasily and sleepless, or have been otherwise fatigued, in order to restore regularity in the in- sensible perspiration, to rest a little after dinner may be productive of beneficial consequences and cannot possibly, while nature courts such an abstraction from the cares of the world, be attended with any incon- venient effects ; though in such cases the body should be well protected from the influence of cold. Those who give way to sleep at any time of the day are usuallymore heavy and indolent after it than before. A nap after dinner ought not to exceed an hour; half or even quarter of the time will suffice in the inclined posi- tion in an arm chair, a position the best that can be occupied by those of full plethoric habits of body; since they are less subject to a determina- tion of blood to the head, and con- sequently to headach. A great deal, in fine, will depend in either case upon the manner the individual places himself in bed, as well as in the posture to which people have ac- customed themselves. Lying on the back, with the arms over the head, retards the circulation of the blood to the upper extremities, and is fre- quently the cause of serious conse- quences. It is no less injurious to be in a crooked or bent posture, or with the breast very low and bent in- wards ; by which the intestines are compressed and obstructed in their motions, so that the blood is impeded in its circulation downwards—the consequence of which may be giddi- ness and even apoplexy. Lying on the back is equally as improper, and is productive of frightful dreams, as well as the invasion of those lethargic fiends, the nightmare and blue devils. The reverse position, that is, lying upon the abdomen, is likewise injuri- ous, as in this posture the stomach is compressed, respiration impeded, and the entire circulation of the chest and