TR TR 351 mach can bear a change in any meal without injury sooner than in this. The dinner is the same. As relates to quantity, the trainees are usually allowed to eat as much as they please, and it may be re- marked, that, confined as they are to almost one dish, with little variety of cookeiy or seasoning, there is very little danger of their eating too much. The stomach is very easily satisfied with a single dish; nobody, not even a voracious child, will eat too much plain bread. The ancient Athlete, who did many very erro- neous things, actually gorged them- selves with food. It is remarked by Mr. Jackson, that little men eat as much as large men, and sometimes more; but this depends much on constitution and habit. Training sharpens the appetite, and therefore more food will be taken after it has been some time persevered in than at first. One rule ought never to be dispensed with, namely, to have some evidence of the appetite, that a pre- vious meal is digested before taking another. In training game cocks this is always ascertained, by feeling whether the crop is empty. As regards science of drinldng and the quantity.—The leadine rule in training is, that the less that is drunk the better, as in proportion ta the quantity taken the flesh becomes more flabby, and the muscles less firm and vigorous. Mr. Jackson and Captain Barclay give their word for the experience of the thing; but our opinion of the subject is, that the quantity of drink must depend, in a great measure, on the sort of food eaten, as well as on the kind of liquor used. If you live almost wholly on vegetable food, like an Irish peasant or a Hindoo, you will for the most part require no drink at all, except when exhausted by heat and perspi- ration ; for water constitutes so large a proportion of all vegetables, that little else is necessary. The peasants, accordingly, who live on vegetable food, seldom drink any thing but ardent spirits, and that necessarily in small quantity. They seldom or never drink large quantities of beer or porter, and have little relish for it. The case is very different with those who live on a large proportion of animal food, as in the case of the working classes in London, who could not live were they not to in- dulge in copious libations of some kind or other; for as their animal food contains but little water, and besides is strongly stimulant, and spurs on the secretory glands to take so much fluid from the blood, there must be a supply provided to over- balance the expenditure, or intoler- able thirst, fever, and other diseases will follow. If, therefore, you eat a large quantity of beef or pork, more particularly if it be salted, or if you drink much wine, or hard malt liquor, the stimulus which it produces on the glands causes a greater expenditure of fluids than it supplies. For ex- ample, it spurs on the kidneys to give out more urine, the liver to give out more bile, the skin to throw off more perspiration, the lungs to throw off more moisture, and the fountains of the mouth to produce more saliva— and of course all these are to be sup- plied from the blood, so long as it can afford such supplies. When the blood has at length parted with as much fluid as it can spare, the foun- tains of the mouth, as well as the liver, kidneys, lungs, and skin, thirst for more, and become hot and uneasy because they cannot get it. Training, it will follow, must produce consider- able thirst, as there is so much ani- mal food used, which produces a high stimulus, and so little watery veget- able food. The sensation of thirst is given us to indicate the want of fluid in the blood, for when in its course the blood comes to the fountains of the mouth, and cannot supply fluid enough to moisten them, thirst is the necessary consequence. But when