321 su SU t elsewhere about noon. At Oxford, in my time, they used commonly at dinner, boyledbief with potage, bread and beere, and no more; the quan- tity of bief was in value an half-a- penny for one man; sometimes, if hunger constrained, they would dou- ble their commons.” Then of sup- per ; “ about four hours or six after we have dined, the time is conve- nient for supper: which in the Uni- versities, is about five of the clock in the afternoon.” “The modern hours of eating,” says another, “have arrived at an excess that is perfectly ridiculous. Now what do people get by this ? if they make dinner their principal meal, and do not wish to pall their appetite by eating before it, they injure their health. Then in winter they have two hours of candle light before dinner, and at supper they are at table during the pleasantest part of the day; and all this to get a long morning—for idle people, to whom one would suppose the shortest morning would deem too long.”—Warner’s Antiq. Culin. p. 134. “ The stately dames of Edward the Fourth’s court rose with the lark, dispatched their dinner at eleven o’clock in the forenoon, and shortly after eight were wrapped in slumber. How would these reasonable people (reasonable at least in this respect) be astonished, could they but be wit- nesses of the present distribution of time among the children of fashion? Would they not call the perverse conduct of those who rise at one or two, dine at eight, and retire to bed when the morning is unfolding all its glories, and Nature putting on her pleasing aspect,—absolute insanity?” —Pye's Sketches, 12mo. 1797, p. 174. In the Northumberland House- hold Book (pp. 314, 318) for 1512, a thousand pounds, it is there stated, was the sum annually expended in house-keeping. This maintained one hundred and sixty-six persons. Wheat was then five shillings and eiglitpence per quarter. The family rose at six in the morning; my Lord and my Lady had set at their table for breakfast, at seven o’clock, A quart of beer, A quart of wine, Two pieces of salt fish, Llalf a dozen red herrings, A dish of sprats!! ! They dined at ten—supped at four in the afternoon—the gates were all shut at nine, and no further ingress or egress permitted. In the time of Elizabeth, the nobility, gentry, and students, dined at eleven o’clock in the forenoon, and supped between five and six in the afternoon. In the reign of Charles II., four in the afternoon was the hour appointed for acting plays. At present, even dinner with people of quality is con- siderably latter. As our ancestors breakfasted early, they also dined early, and had at least two meals after this, as appears from the allowance appointed for a lady Lucy, who seems to have been one of the maids of honour in the court of Henry VIII. This lady, it appears, was allowed for breakfast— A chine of beef, A loaf, and A gallon of ale. There is an account also of the breakfast of an Earl and Countess, in the Lent season—namely, A loaf of bread, Two manchettes, * A quart of beer, A quart of wine, Two pieces of salt fish, Six baconed herrings, Four white herrings, and A dish of sprats. As regards the quality of different meals at the present day,,it appears that we depart more from the custom of our hardy ancestors with re- spect to breakfast than any other meal. The contrast at first sight appears truly ridiculous. A maid of Loaves of a coarser kind of bread.