352 TR TR this is the case, it must be obvious that drinking will not, and cannot, immediately quench thirst, be the drink taken what it may, in quan- tity or quality; for before it can pro- perly quench thirst, it must pass into the stomach and be digested, to fit it for mingling with the blood, and this process also requires some time. From not knowing this simple fact, many persons when thirsty drink too much, and oppress their stomachs with a superfluous qnantity of liquor. We have known even water-drinkers very much injure their stomachs by too copious libations.—See Thirst. We shall now offer a few remarks, on the practice of Mr. Jackson, Captain Barclay, and other celebrated trainers. Those, in fact, who are put under training for pugilistic purposes, are prohibited from exceeding three English pints of malt liquor during the whole day, to be taken after breakfast and dinner, and but little after supper. The trainers for run- ning are allowed a little more, but are restricted to four pints a day. The ancient Athletae were also al- lowed but a very small quantity of liquid ;• the dry diet, as it is called, having formed an indispensable part of their system. The reasons which modern trainers give for their restric- tions are, that the belly is apt to swell from copious drinking, and that it is bad for the wind. Drinking besides promotes perspiration and urine, which are extremely weaken- ing, unless produced, say they, by exercise. Mr. Jackson observes, that if a person having a tendency to cor- pulence, would restrict himself to three pints daily, instead of copious draughts and large quantities of liquor, he would, in less than two months, find himself two or three pounds lighter. To quench thirst immediately, with- out drinking.—If it becomes at any time troublesome, as it sometimes does during a course of training, on the principles already laid down, it will be at once manifest to all, that the speediest way of quenching thirst is—not to supply liquid, but to pre- vent its expenditure, and to soothe the glands of the mouth, &c., which crave supply. Economists and misers well know, that “ to save is to gain.” On this principle then, by applying cold water to the skin, you stop the pores and diminish perspiration ; even dipping the hands in cold water has often an instantaneous effect in quenching thirst. At sea, this is of the utmost consequence, when water becomes scarce ; bathing in salt water being the best remedy for the tor- ments of thirst. Great draughts of liquor are thought to be very inju- rious, as this only deluges the sto- mach without quenching thirst, which is more effectually accomplished by taking the liquor in mouthfuls only. The articles on thirst and hunger will be read here with advantage. Medicinally speaking, as regards drink,—we would say that water would be the best liquor in training; but it is never given alone in modern times, as it is thought to be a weaken- ing diluent. The ancient Athletae, however, were allowed nothing but water, or some sort of thick sweet wine. The drink preferred in modem training is good old malt liquor in bottles, and as mild as possible, with- out any perceptible tartness or harsh- ness. It is occasionally taken with a toast in it, but this is optional. Those who do not like malt liquor, particularly for breakfast, may have half the quantity of wine and water. Even tea (not hot) is permitted, but this reluctantly, as it is not considered strengthening. Hot, or even warm liquor of any kind, is reckoned very weakening, and is never given except warm gruel or beef tea, when taking physic. Those who have been ac- customed to wine and insist upon having it, are recommended to take red wine, in the quantity of half a pint to dinner, but none is allowed for supper. Mr. Jackson, however,