64 CII CH to be soused in some liquor an d fried; they are not nutritious,and from their clammy and glutinous nature, are difficult of digestion. Equally so are the external parts of the same animal, as the ears and feet, hence they re- quire to be fried with onions, and mustard eaten with them as a condi- ment. CHEESE.—One of the products of milk, and is made by pressing the curd of the latter, and suffer- ing the mass to dry. Milk is coagu- lated by runnet, or rennet, a liquor made by steeping the maw or sto- mach of a calf in warm water, in which spices and aromatics have been previously infused. Bacon observes that the milk of the pig has the qua- lity of rennet.—See Milk. The pig’s prest juice, infused in cream, To curds coagulates the liquid stream. Pope. The too frequent use of cheese is condemned by physicians, who main- tain that it is a food fit only for labourers, or those whose organs of digestion are strong. In England, cheese is made entirely from the milk of cows; but in some places they make it of ewe’s milk; and in others a certain proportion of ewe’s milk, or that of goats’ is added to the cows’. The Laplanders make a sort of cheese of the milk of the rein-deer. England has long been noted for the excellency of its cheese. Camden and others suppose, that we learned the art of making it from the Ro- mans. Chedder, in Somersetshire, and Stilton, in Huntingdonshire, are famed for an exquisite sort; the lat- ter being usually called the Parmes- san of England. Parma, in the north of Italy, is renowned through all Eu- rope for its excellent cheese, as our well known ballads bear testimony: “ Let Lodi or Pannassan bring up the rear.” Much of the cheese called Stilton cheese, is made in the neigh- bouring counties. The counties of Wilts, Gloucester, Warwick, and Cheshire, make immense quantities of cheese. From this last county Chester alone is said to export an- nually 22,000 tons—14,000 of which are sent to London. The average annual produce from one animal in Cheshire is stated at 300lbs. The most common size of each cheese is sixty pounds; a weight susceptible of every excellence to be found in the cheese of this country; but some weigh 1401bs. And in May, 1792, Mr. Heath, a farmer near Nant- wich, a place situated in a luxuriant vale on the banks of the Weaver, made a cheese that weighed 1921bs. which measured two feet four inches over, and twelve in thickness. It was intended as a present for his late Majesty George III. The co- louring of cheese should be done with arnotto; but, in consequence of the dearness of this article, an adul- terated substitute is very commonly used. The following places are also noted on account of their cheese: Cotten- ham, near Cambridge; Banbury, in Oxfordshire; Dunlop, in Ayrshire, Scotland; Gruyers in the Canton of Fribourg, Switzerland ; Edam, north of Amsterdam in Holland; Gex, in the department of Aisne ; and Meux, in the department of Seine and Marne, France. The cheese of the last-mentioned place is known by the appellation of “ Fromage de Brie;” a district in the environs of Meux, noted for its excellent pasturage, called Brie. All cheese is difficult to be di- gested, being the coarsest and most glutinous part of the milk, which the healthy and laborious only can con- coct. To others, it is too heavy; it imparts a thick and acrid chyle to the blood ; it hardens in a weak sto- mach, and accumulates in an indu- rated earthy lump. When eaten new in any considerable quantity, it cor- rupts the fluids; and if old it becomes putrid. Ale is the best beverage that can be used with it, when it is eaten