TE TH 33G removing a condition essential to chemical action. Many vegetables, and some animal substances, such as eggs, possess what is termed latent life, and as long as this is not anni- hilated, they resist fermentation. A very low temperature destroys this principle, while a higher one calls it into action; after which, it cannot be suspended without being destroy- ed altogether, and thus it is longest preserved in a temperature just a little higher than the former. An egg that has been frozen is killed, and soon after it is thawed, rots. On the other hand, by incubation, or an equal degree of heat, the life of the chick becomes active, and cannot again be checked with impunity; while, at a moderate low tempera- ture, the latent life of an egg conti- nues a great length of time, ready to be excited into action when placed in favourable circumstances, and resisting the natural tendency to chemical change. The same obser- vation nearly applies to vegetables. Succulent roots, for instance, can be long preserved in a moderate low temperature, but if it be raised, they begin to shoot; or if it be reduced too much, they die and soon rot.— See Ileat. Cold, Preservative ef- fects of. TENCH.—There are two kinds of tench. The sea tench (Merida sea tinea marina) which is not used as food; and the other a fresh water fish well known. It varies in size— some of them are as large as carp, having two small stones in their heads, to which various medicinal properties were ascribed by the ancients. The tench affords toler- ably good nourishment; although condemned by many of the ancient physicians, on account of its viscous and excrementitious juices. Lemery, although he does not consider it to be very wholesome, does not, how- ever, believe it to be pernicious, having observed no bad effects from its use. It agrees at all times with young bilious people who have a good stomach, provided it be used in moderation. It prefers muddy and standing waters to such as are clear and rapid; consequently is met with chiefly in pools, lakes, and marshes, rather than in rivers, in which, nevertheless, they are some- times found, but more especially in those that are full of mud and dirt, on which they feed; and hence the reason why they have been disap- proved of. Authors inform us, that there is such a particular partiality existing between the tench and the pike, that notwithstanding the latter devours every other kind that comes in his way, it spares by some unac- countable forbearance the tench.* THERMOMETER.—An instru- ment to shew the relative heat of bodies. Fahrenheit’s thermometer is that chiefly used in England.—(See Zero. It consists of a glass tube, con- taining a portion of mercury, with a graduated plate annexed to it. The tube is hermetically sealed, to preserve the metal from the pressure of the atmosphere. The manner in which a thermometer is affected by the temperature of bodies, is as follows: —When this instrument is brought in contact with any substance, the mercury expands or contracts, till it acquires the same temperature; and the height at which the mercury then stands in the tube, indicates the ex- act temperature of the substance to which it has been applied. The thermometer does not shew the quan- tity of caloric or principle of heat in all bodies, such, for instance, as that which is latent, or chemically com- bined with any body; as in fluids, which require a certain portion of * This fish is called in Latin, tinea, quasi tincta; and indeed it has a colour distinct enough from most other fishes. By some it has been called piscis igno- bilis, vilis, and pauperiorum cibus; and Ausonius calls it vulgi solatium, which denotes the little value put upon it by the ancients.