MA MA 197 in some cases of general weakness, where the individual is evidently re- covering, and is possessed of a toler- able share of strength and stomach, we have found a little of the finest ale daily to be an excellent restorative. The age of malt liquors is the last thing by which they are rendered more or less wholesome.* Age, has apparently in this respect, the same effect as hops; and those liquors that are kept longest are evidently the least viscid. But this is generally de- termined by their degree of strength, in proportion to which, they will sooner or later come to their full perfection, as well as decay; for when ale or beer is kept till its particles are broken, and communicated as far as they are capable, then it is that they are at the highest state of per- fection ; and beyond this they will be continually on the decay, till the finer spirits have entirely escaped, leaving the remainder sour and vapid. MALT SPIRIT.—Made by mix- ing sixty quarters of barley grist ground low, and twenty quarters of coarse-ground pale malt, with 250 barrels of water, at about 17° F. taking out about thirty barrels of the wort, and adding to this ten store of fresh porter yeast, and when the remaining wort is cooled down to 55° adding ten quarters more malt, previously mixed with thirty barrels of warm water, stirring the whole well together, and putting it to fer- * Mr. Reynoldson, in his Treatise on Malting, remarks, that when ale was exported to Russia, the more wealthy of the inhabitants of that country selected the most rich as their choicest drink; and they had a peculiar mode of distin- guishing its quality; for by pouring a little into the palm of one hand and rub- bing it with the other, they, by the odour it emitted, ascertained its goodness. The best, say they, sends forth a rich odour, like an assemblage of flowers ; but if any adventitious flavour has been contracted, they could detect it by this method, and then estimated the quality accordingly. ment along with the reserved yeasted wort. This wash, by the saccharo- meter, will be found to weigh 28-32 lb. per barrel, more than water. In the course of twelve or fourteen days, the yeast head will fall quite flat, and the wash will have a venous smell and taste, and not weigh more than 2-4 lb. per barrel, more than water. Some now add twenty pounds of common salt, and thirty pounds of flour, and in three or four days put it into the still, previously stir- ring it well together. It is estimated that every six gallons of this wash will produce one gallon of spirit at 1 to 10 over proof, or eighteen gal- lons of spirit from each quarter of grain.—Gray's Supplement. In Holland, they first mix ten quarters of rye meal with a small quantity of cold water, and then add as much boiling water as is necessary to make a thin mash, and set it to ferment with a small quantity of yeast; about the third day they add three quarters of malt meal previously mixed with warm water, and as much yeast as at first, stirring the whole well together; this wash weighs only eighteen poimds per barrel more than water, and sometimes less: their stills are from 300 to 500 gallons each, and they draw in the firsti dis- tillation, three cans of phlegm^after the runnings cease to burn on the still head, and five cans when dis- tilling low wines. MANGEL WURZEL {Root of Scarcity).—The following account of the mangel wurzel, or root of scarcity, is extracted from a pam- phlet, translated from the French of the Abbe de Commerellf, by the late Dr. Lettsom, who, in an advertise- t The Abb6 de Commerell observes, when speaking of the general utility of this root, that, “ in years of scarcity, it will afford to men a healthful and agree- able food, and, when forage is scarce or dear, will furnish cattle, both in summer and winter, with a cheap and abundant nourishment.” s 3