108 DR DR nation of part of the salt with the meat. By boiling, the albumen, which would cause the pickle to spoil, is coagulated, and rises in the form of scum, which must be care- fully removed. Dry-salting is performed by rub- bing the surface of the meat all over with salt; and it is generally be- lieved that this process of salting is promoted if the salt be rubbed in with a heavy hand; and, on the contrary, it is said, that in very hot countries, for instance, in Jamaica, where it is so necessary that the action of the salt should take place as quickly as possible, the mode of salt- ing is to place the meat on two sticks over a tub of water, with the small end uppermost, and to cover it with a heap of salt, which penetrates through the veins and arteries, and among the fibres of the meat, in a state of saturated solution. However this may be, it is almost certain that very little salt penetrates, except through the cut surfaces, to which it should therefore be chiefly applied; and all holes, whether natural or artificial, should be particularly at- tended to. About a pound of the best coarse-ground St. Ube’s salt should be allowed for each twenty- five pounds of meat, and the whole previously heated, and rubbed in at once. When laid in the pickling- tub, after the above process, a brine is soon formed by the salt dissolving in the juices of the meat, which it extracts, and with which the meat should be rubbed every day, a dif- ferent side being turned down. In ten or twelve days it will be suffi- ciently cured. For domestic use, the meat should be kept until its fibres become short and tender, instead of being salted as soon as it comes from the market, as these changes do not take place after it has been acted upon by the salt. But in the provision trades,— the expedition with which the ani- mals are slaughtered, the meat cut up and salted, and afterwards pack- ed, is astonishing. By salting the meat while still warm, and before the fluids are coagulated, the salt immediately penetrates, by means of the vessels, through the whole sub- stance of the meat, hence meat is admirably cured at Tunis, even in the hottest season; so that Mr. Jack- son, in his “ Reflections on the Trade of the Mediterranean,” recommends ships being supplied with provisions at that place. A mixture for eight cwt. of Beef. Take— Half a pound of black pepper. Half a pound of red or cayenne pepper. Half a pound of the best saltpetre. All beat or ground very fine, mix them well together, and then again with the addition of about three quarts of very fine salt. Process of Dry-Salting.—As pieces are brought from the person cutting up the bullock, they are first sprinkled with the spice, a little of which is introduced into all the thickest parts, and if this cannot otherwise be done, small incisions are made into each with a knife. The first salter, after rubbing salt and spice into the meat, should take and mould the piece, in the same manner as washing a shirt, upon a board; this may be very easily done, and the meat, having been lately killed, is soft and pliable; the moulding opens the grain of the meat, which will make it imbibe the salt and spice much quicker than the common method of salting. The first salter hands his meat over to the second salter, who moulds and rubs the salt well into the meat, and, if he observes occasion, introduces the spice; when the second salter has finished his piece, he folds it up as close as possible, and hands it to the packer, at the harness-tub, who must be stationed near him. The packer must be careful to pack his harness- tubs as close as possible. All the