277 SA SA tue the force and activity of some plants lie in the roots, and even the leaves of some bitter roots are sweet, and vice versa, and of others in the stem, leaves, buds, flowers, &c.; some exert their vigour, without decoction; others, when a little pressed or con- tused ; others again raw and when mixed with others, and some without any mixture or prepai-ation at all. The collector, therefore, must attend to what he gathers, that they cox-- respond to these qualities, and to make them consist as closely as he can of their very tenderest parts, even to their first rudiments. SALADS. — Observations pre- paratory to the Dressing of. i. Let the herbaceous ingredients be exquisitely culled, and cleansed from all worm eaten, slimy, corroded, dry, spotted, or otherwise vitiated leaves, and let them be rather spar- ingly sprinkled, than over-much soaked in spring water, especially lettuce of the cabbage kind, whose heads are sufficiently protected by the outer leaves with which they are covered. After washing, let them remain a short time in the cullender, that the superfluous moisture may drain off, and lastly, let them be all gently swung together in a clean coarse cloth, so that they may be in a perfect condition to receive the fol- lowing seasonings:— ii. The salad oil must be very clear, and neither high coloured nor yellow, but with a head rather of a pale olive green, without smell, the least taint of rankness, or any other sensible taste or scent at all, but smooth, light, and pleasant upon the tongue, such as the genuine Ompha- line and native Lucca olive afford, fit to allay the tartness of vinegar and other acid, yet gently warming and moistening where it passes. Some who have an aversion to oil, substitute fresh butter for it, but the latter is so exceedingly clogging to the stomach, that it is by no means advisable. iii. The vinegar and other liquid acids must be perfectly clear, neither sour, vapid, nor spent, but the very best white wine vinegar, whether distilled or aromatic, and may be impregnated secundum gustum, with the infusion of cloves, gilliflowers, elder, x*oses, rose- mary, nasturtium, &c. enriched with the virtue of the plant. A verjuice, not unfit for salads, is made of a grape of that name, or of the green immature clusters of most other grapes, pressed, and put into a small vessel to ferment. iv. The salt must be of the brightest bay grey salt, moderately dried and bruised, as being the least con-osive. It must likewise be free from clam- miness. v. Sugar, when used as a condiment in salads, ought to be of the best re- fined sort, white, hard, close, yet light and sweet. And here it may be noted, that the sugar, salt and vinegar are to be proportioned, as well as the plants, to the constitution; the one for cold, and the other for warm stomachs. vi. The mustard must be the best Tewkesbury, or composed of the soundest and weightiest Yorkshire seed, exquisitely sifted, winnowed, and freed from the husks, a little, but not over much dried by the fire, tempered to the consistence of pap with vinegar, in which scrapings of horse-radish have been steeped; then cut an onion, and put it into a small earthen gallipot, or some thick glass of that shape, pour the mustard into it, and close it well with a cork. The flour and dust of the bruised seed is sometimes preserved in a well- stopped glass, that it may be used fresh when wanted. The seeds of nasturtium are sometimes used as a substitute for mustard. vii. Pepper, whether it be white or black, ought not to be too finely pul- verized. The root of the small llur- net saxifrage, dried, is by some preferred to all other peppers. viii. The yolks of fresh eggs, newly laid, boiled moderately hard, are to 2 B