IN IN 180 the use of flannel, friction, &c., &c. —See Training. INTESTINES.—The intestines, or alimentary canal, include the whole passage from the mouth to the anus, though, strictly speaking, the term alimentary canal is more commonly employed to express only the stomach and intestinal tube. It may be represented as a long canal, commonly estimated as being five or six times the length of the adult, differently twisted upon itself, and of different dimensions in various parts of its extent. It is described by anatomists as composed of several distinct tunics or coats, the extreme of which may be traced throughout its whole extent, although their structure varies in different divisions of the canal. The alimentary canal is suscepti- ble of a peculiar motion, arising from the successive or simultaneous contraction of its longitudinal or cir- cular fibres, and has been differ- ently denominated by authors— some calling it vermicular, others peristaltic. This contraction always takes place slowly, and in an irre- gular manner; it is, however, capa- ble of being accelerated by the action of certain stimulants. It does not appear to be sensibly controlled by the will; nor, indeed, does it appear to be dependent upon the nervous system, for it proceeds in the stomach after the section of the eighth pair of nerves, and it even continues, though the intestinal canal be completely separated from the body; at the same time, although these muscular fibres be independent of the nervous sys- tem, they may in every instance be influenced through it,—a fact of very great pathological importance, since it follows that the muscular fibres of the canal may not only be affected by causes acting directly on them, but by such as act by the medium of the nerves.—Dr. IV. Philip, on Indigestion. It is observed by M. Magendie, small intes- t tines. 1 large intes- tines. that the peristaltic motion becomes more active by the weakness of ani- mals, and even by their death; and that in some, by this cause, it be- comes considerably accelerated. The design of the peristaltic motion, is to propel the contents of the stomach forward, and to favour those changes they are destined to undergo. 'The alimentary canal is never in a state of complete collapse; it always contains gas or vapour, which pre- vents its sides from coming in con- tact. It has been stated that this canal is of different dimensions, and it is principally from this diversity of magnitude that anatomists have established the following divisions: 1. The Stomach—See Stomach. 2. The Duodenum, 3. The Jejunum, 4. The Ilium. 5. The CiEcuM, 6. The Colon, 7. The Rectum. ' a, The duodenum, or first portion of the small part of the stomach, in- cludes that range, which commences at the pylorus* or lower opening of the stomach, and extends for about twelve inches; and so important are the changes which the food undergoes here, where it is mixed with the bile, &c. that many have looked upon it as a sort of second stomach. The jejunum commences at the precise point where the duo- denum ends, which cannot, perhaps, be accurately defined, though the : jejunum is generally considered as beginning where the mesentery takes its rise. It appears to have derived its name from the facts of its being usually found empty; probably from its more rapid powers of absorption. The ilium is the continuation of the jejunum,andis thelast division of the small intestines; it is said to have de- rived its name from the manner in which it is coiled up in the mesentery. * The inferior aperture of the stomach which opens into the intestines.