TR TR 356 within doors, such as in wet weather, a large, open, well ventilated room, with a good fire in it, for the stated tasks of exercise to be performed in. If the air is very cold, as during a hard frost, more exercise ought to be taken to stimulate and relax the contracted vessels in the lungs, and when it is very warm, as in summer, the exercise ought to be proportion- ally less. When the training is rigid, all low situated places, and the neighbourhood of marshes, lakes, canals, and slow running rivers should be avoided, and a high airy place chosen. It is of the greatest import- ance that this rule should be fol- lowed at night, and that the bed chamber be spacious and well venti- lated. Sleeping in good air will contribute more to strength than even living in good air by day. The practice of Jackson, however, is not to mind the weather, but exercise both on wet and dry days, taking care to change the wet clothes on coming home. In the former parts of this subject, we have shewn the necessity of re- ducing all appearance of corpulence by perspiration. Now, this end can- not be attained without strict atten- tion to dress. In order to increase perspiration, says Jackson, an extra quantity of clothes is necessary, par- ticularly during the morning race. The race is always performed in a flannel dress, but the walk may be taken in the usual clothes. The young are recommended, by the same great training authority, to wear calico next the skin; but by older men, flannel is preferred. Those who are trained for running, are put between feather beds and loaded with clothes, to increase perspira- tion; but this is not done in other cases. With respect to the bed- clothes, we have formerly said that they should be light, that the person may not be heated while asleep, as this is extremely weakening. It is also important that there be no cur- tains to the bed, or at least that they be kept closely tied up during the night. Nothing is more prejudicial to strengthening and healthful sleep than close curtains. Whoever has studied the art of training must have often remarked, that the increase of strength, or the increase of weakness, though much influenced by what is taken into the stomach, and by its powers of diges- tion, yet a great deal depends on the management of the skin : and unless that is properly attended to, your training may all go for nothing. The stomach and bowels may be in healthful order, your wind may be sound, and your lungs playing and fluttering as freely as an aspen leaf, and yet may your skin, by improper management, soon throw the whole into disorder. Recollect for a mo- ment, that nearly two-thirds of all that you eat and drink passes off by the skin, and you will at once see the importance of keeping the pores open, and taking care not to stop or impede the free passage of perspira- tion. The subject is so extensive, that we easily could, and perhaps may, write a volume upon it. In the mean time, we must be contented with a few practical remarks, as ap- plicable to training. In order to keep the pores of the skin free to admit the escape of the perspiration, it is indispensable that it be kept clean, and purged of all the greasy scurf which naturally col- lects upon its surface. We should, therefore, recommend that the whole body be carefully washed, at least once a week, taking care to let this be done as speedily as possible, to prevent the bad effects of cold. Water somewhat warm, is the best for cleaning the skin thoroughly; and to prevent its opening the pores too much, it ought to be immediately followed up by a second wash of the coldest water that can be procured, or a plunge into the cold bath. Fewterell, who was of the old school,