TR 358 TR during the process of training, im- proves in wind, and increases in strength, it is certain the object will he secured. But if otherwise, it is to be apprehended that some corporeal defect exists, through the want of skill or management of the trainer, and which ought immediately to be attended to by making such altera- tions as the nature of the circum- stances may demand. Hence it is evident, in many instances, that the trainer must be guided by his judg- ment, and that no fixed rules, with any degree of certainty, are within his control. It is impossible to fix any precise period for the completion of the training process, since much will depend on the previous condi- tion of the person to be trained; but from two to three months, generally will be found sufficient, with any- thing like condition at the com- mencement, and a cheerful and re- gular adherence to the prescribed rules. Sir John Sinclair observes, that, “Training always appears to improve the state of the lungs. One of the most striking effects of it is, to improve the wind; that is, it enables a man to draw a larger inspiration, and to hold his breath longer.” He likewise adds, that, “ By training the mental faculties are also im- proved; the attention is more ready, and the perception more acute, pro- bably owing to the clearness of the stomach, and better digestion.”—See Code of Health, vol. ii, p. 103. The question has been agitated, whether training produces a perma- nent, or only a temporary effect on the constitution? It may be an- swered, that if a man be brought to a better habit of body, and the function of respiration, and corporeal vigour, be improved by it, such a state of health will unquestionably exist, until derangement supervene, either from accidental or natural causes. If, for instance, he should relapse into irregular habits, neglect the means of preserving his health by omitting to take the regular exer- cise, or by indulging in excesses of any kind, then must it be expected that such inroads made upon the constitution must eventually dilapi- date the system. But, on the other hand, by an adherence to the train- ing plan, its good effects will be ex- perienced, until the gradual decay of the natural functions ease him down gently, not violently, to the grave: consequently, it may be admitted that the benefits arising both to body and mind from a judicious and well- conducted process of training, are not merely of an evanescent nature, but that they may be made perma- nent by proper care and attention. Simplicity in tbe rules of training is certainly a strong recommendation to those desirous of submitting to the experiment; and the whole process may be illustrated on the following principles:— 1. Evacuation, which cleanses the stomach and alimentary canal. 2. Sweating (see Perspiration), which removes the superfluities of flesh and fat. 3. Exercise, which improves the respiratory organs, vulgarly called the “wind,” strengthens the mus- cular system, and gives tone, vigour, and elasticity to the whole frame. 4. Diet and regimen, which nou- rish and support the whole. Add to these the influences of air, sleep, and passions of the mind, and their regulation, and the whole phi- losophy of training may be embraced at a single glance. The criterion to go by, in order to ascertain whether a person has been properly trained, is tbe state of the skin,* which becomes smooth, tense, * In directing the attention to the excretions of the body, the sympathy existing between the skin and the sto- mach ought not to be overlooked. If the vessels of the skin, for instance, be universally excited, and this excitation be long continued, they will at length fall into a state of indirect debility,