330 TE TE who seems to be thoroughly per- suaded of the occasionally noxious effects of this volatile principle, in the finer teas especially, recommends this last mentioned mode of making tea, or the substitution of the extract instead of the leaves, by the use of which, the nervous relaxing effects which follow the drinking of tea in the usual manner, would be in great measure avoided. This extract has been imported hither from China, in the form of small cakes, not exceed- ing a quarter of an ounce each in weight, ten grains of which might suffice one person for breakfast; but it might easily be made here by simple decoction and evaporation, by those who experience the noxious qualities of the volatile principles of this plant. It may be farther ob- served, that the effect of drinking large quantities of any warm aqueous liquor, would be to enter speedily into the course of circulation, and pass off as speedily by urine or pers- piration, or the increase of some of the secretions. Its effects on the solid parts of the constitution would be relaxing, and thereby enfeebling. If this warm aqueous fluid were taken in considerable quantities, its effects would be proportionable, and still greater if it were substituted instead of nutriment. The infusion of tea, however, has these two pecu- liarities : it is not only possessed of a sedative quality, but also of con- siderable astringency, by which the relaxing power ascribed to a more aqueous fluid is in some measure con-ected on this account. It is, perhaps, less injurious than many other infusions of herbs, which, be- sides a very slight aromatic flavour, have very little, if any, stypticity to prevent their relaxing and debilitat- ing effects. So far, therefore, tea, if not too fine—if not drunk too hot, nor in too great quantities, is, perhaps, preferable to any other known vege- table infusion; and if we take into consideration, likewise, its known enlivening energy, our attachment to it will appear to be owing to it3 superiority in taste and effect to most other vegetables. Tea may be con- sidered as a very powerful aphrodi- siac, and Dr. Percival imputes the immense population of China among other causes to the general use of it. Whether tea possesses any diu- retic, diaphoretic, and other virtues, for which it has been celebrated, is rather doubtful, as these may be in part owing to the great quantities of warn water with which the infusions of it are made. Good tea, particu- larly the black sort, made strong, and used in a moderate quantity, is antispasmodic and refreshing; it is, therefore, calculated to relieve the cramp of the stomach, and pains of the abdomen, if they proceed from flatulency. But, according to cir- cumstances, it may even increase spasmodic contractions; for instance, if they arise from a vitiated bile, from worms, or from hysteric and gouty complaints, in either of which cases tea will most certainly not relieve, but rather prolong the spas- modic contractions of the vessels. The relaxation which tea occasions in the first passages, renders it pecu- liarly hurtful to females of lax fibres, or thin blood and irritable habits. To enumerate the great diversity of nervous symptoms attending its abuse in such constitutions would lead us too far from the prescribed limits; but so much is certain, that the vapours arising from liquors drunk very hot like tea, weaken the lungs, and dispose their votaries to frequent colds and catarrhs,winch the more readily make a transition into consumption. Individuals of a rigid and solid fibre, of a dry and firm body, may be allowed to drink tea in mode- ration, as it will not easily hurt them. By adding a spoonful of old Rhenish wine, or ardent spirits, to every cup of tea, it may be so far improved as to make it less flatulent; but the frequent repetition of it, even in this