BR 43 BR made of wheat is doubtless the best; but potatoes when cheap, may be converted into bread, perhaps not alone, but mixed with wheat meal. Five pounds of bean flour made into a decoction, and this decoction em- ployed for making dough, will afford more bread than if the dough was prepared with water; this decoction being kneaded with fifty pounds of flour, and worked as usual with salt and yeast, gave ninety three pounds of dough, which, on being baked, produced eighty-two pounds and three quarters of bread; fifty-five pounds of flour, made into dough in the common way, produced sixty- nine pounds and a half of bread : hence by the former process there was gained one-fifth, or fourteen pounds. Rice boiled in water to a sort of jelly, will make as much pudding as eight pounds of wheat flour: if previously boiled with a pulp, and then mixed with wheat flour and made into a dough, it con- siderably augments the quantity of bread ; this arises from its greater power of consolidating water. The best and most agreeable bread is a mixture of three parts of flour and one of rice. A quarter of a pound of rice boiled, and mixed with three quarters of a pound of flour, and made into dough with water in which it was boiled, gave one pound four- teen ounces of bread; but the same quantity of bread made in the com- mon way would require one pound and a quarter of flour. Mr. Accum, in his Treatise on Cu- linary Poisons, states, that the infe- rior kind of flour which the London bakers generally use for making loaves, requires the addition of alum to give them the white appearance of bread made of fine flour. “ The baker’s flour is very often made of the worst kinds of damaged wheat, and other cereal grains mixed with them in grinding the wheat into flour. In this capital (London), no fewer than six distinct kinds of wheaten flower are brought into the market. They are stiled fine flour, seconds, middlings, fine middlings, coarse middlings, and twentypenny flour. Common garden beans and pease are also frequently ground up among the London bread flour.” Flour turned acid, and not fit for use, was rendered sweet by adding two tablespoonsful of the carbonate of soda to fourteen pounds of flour. It was then made into dough as usual, and good bread was produced, though altered in colour: the soda here united with the acid of the flour, and the carbonic acid being set free, assisted in the fermentation of it. Good bread ought to be composed of flour well kneaded with the light- est water, seasoned with a little salt, fermented with fine yeast, and suf- ficiently baked at a proper heat. When baked it ought to appear through glass like a honey-comb, full of cells, yet the inteianediate parts constitute a uniform substance of a gelatinous nature, which readily unites with an aqueous menstruum. But instead of this wholesome bread, bakers contrive to mix up many per- nicious ingi-edients with it, in order to sell it at a reduced price, and that their profits may be augmented. Alum, lime, chalk, whiting, and burnt bones, have not unfrequently found their way into the “ staff of life.’’ Although the evils arising from the practice of the adulteration of bread, may have been somewhat exaggerated, it is certain that bad flour will never make good bread, nor of sufficient whiteness to please the eye of the capricious epicure, without the addition of alum. It has also been found, that unless alum be introduced into the flour, the loaves run together in the oven, and do not afterwards separate from each other with a smooth surface. This is pro- bably owing to the action of the alum upon the mucilage of the flour, which it coagulates. It has been asserted, that the smallest quantity