129 FL FL of those in a state of health. There are some exceptions among the fish tribe, which depend either upon the constitution of certain individuals, or upon some singularity in the nature of the particular fish, by which it becomes poisonous, although the spe- cies generally may be wholesome and nutritious.—See Fish, Poisonous. As we descend lower in the scale of animals, the above exceptions more frequently occur, and more species are absolutely and universally un- wholesome, or furnish poisons hurt- ful to every constitution. In the vegetable kingdom the alimentary vegetables form but a small propor- tion of the whole, and almost an equal number are absolutely poison- ous, or at least injurious, except when given in small quantities, for the purpose of counteracting some exist- ing disease. The fles]i of quadrupeds, although it furnishes articles which may safely be used as food, differs considerably in some of them, both as regards its palatability and its nutritious pro- perties. In like manner, there is no part of this class of animals that may not be, and which indeed is not used as food, although the flesh or voluntary muscles upon the limbs, trunk, and head, is by far the most considerable and important. The heart, the largest of the involuntary muscles,* is also commonly eaten; and the brain and spinal maiTow, or pith ; all the glands, kidneys, liver, and sweet bread ; the compound internal or- gans ; the lungs, stomach, and in- testines ; the womb, placenta, and even the contents of the stomach; the fat, and marrow of the bones; the blood and skin are all nutri- tious, and some of them highly * Those muscles over which animals have no control, are called involun- tary, that is, those over which it is not in our power to exert any voluntary in- fluence, e. g. the heart. prized ; and even the bones them- selves can be made to furnish most wholesome nutrition. The milk also of all quadrupeds is alimentary, and generally agreeable and very grate- ful to the palate. Although each of the above organs contain several im- mediate principles, chemically con- sidered, they are nevertheless cha- racterised by some in their composi- tion. The muscular flesh principally consists of fibrine, combined with some gelatinous mucus and ozmO- zome ; the tendons of the muscles, on the contrary, are little less than gela- tine in a very dense form. It is also the case with the skin, the mem- branes in general, and the ligaments. Brain, and medullary nervous matters consist chiefly of coagulated albumen, which also perhaps enters largely into the composition of glands. The fat, suet, and marrow of the bones, are different forms of concrete animal oil. All these principles are digesti- ble and nutritious ; but in what com- parative degree, is far from being ascertained. According to popular opinion, it is nearly inversely as their solubility in water; muscular flesh being considered to furnish the strongest aliment, and gelatinous or- gans the lightest. These substances, however, are not precisely the same in all animals, nor even in the same animals at different periods of life. See Albumen, Fibrine, Gelatine, Os- mazome, &c. I. As regards the age and size of animals destined for food, it is gene- rally considered that in proportion to the age, the flesh and other parts belonging to the individual are coarser or more delicate, not only when different in kind, hut in dif- ferent varieties of the same species, although well-grown animals of the same variety are always better than those that have not been sufficiently nourished. For instance, the flesh of the elephant and the rhinoceros have been found to be exceedingly goarse and unpalatable, whilst that