AL 6 AL the other malt drinks, it cannot with propriety be taken but by those who are naturally of a strong constitution, and who use a deal of exercise. In- deed, it is generally admitted by those who are skilled in the art of training, that a quantity of ale taken at every meal, will soonest bring the body up to the fullest extent of strength. It is affirmed by Jackson, the celebrated trainer, that if any person, accustomed to drink wine, would but try malt liquor for a month, he would find himself so much the better for it that he would soon relinquish the former for the latter. The best ale is made of fine pale malt, and with hops of the finest quality. It should sparkle in the glass, but the smaller the beads the better. In persons recovering from great constitutional debility, and whose stomach would not feel oppressed by it, a little good home- brewed ale would act as a restorative. It is a good dissolvent of cheese, and considerably tends to keep the bowels soluble, which the latter is disposed to constipate.—See Beer—Porter. ALEXANDER, The Herb.— (,Alexander or Alexanders. Smyrnium Olusatrum. L.)—This herb is much of the same nature as parsley. It is moderately hot, of a cleansing and deobstruent nature, nourishing and comforting to the stomach. The tender sprouts, buds, and tops, are to be chosen ; the stalks are' eaten in spring, and also in winter, when blanched and drenched with oil, pep- per and salt; either by themselves or in composition with other salad herbs. It is also used in winter as a pot-herb. It grows naturally near the sea side, and may be often ob- served naturalized near old buildings. It somewhat resembles the celery in flavour, by which vegetable it has almost entirely been supplanted. ALKALESCENCY. —An alka- line or bilious disposition, or ten- dency.—See Solution. • from the too great alkalescency inherent in the flesh of some animals, those of a carnivorous nature are commonly avoided, and the prefer- ence given to such as are of the gra- minivorous kind. It is, nevertheless, true, that some birds which live on insects, are admitted into our food; but few, without nausea, could long subsist upon these alone. Fishes, too, are an exception to this rule, from their living almost exclusively on each other. In these, however, al- kalescency does not proceed to any great extent; but, whether from the viscidity of their juices, the want of heat, or some other peculiarity in their economy, is not easily to be determined. The difference of age determines the alkalescency. The older the more alkalescent, in consequence of their continual progress to putrefaction. The wild or tame state of the ani- mal varies the alkalescency of the food, and is a circumstance which again depends upon its exercise. Cullen mentions a gentleman who was excessively fond of cats for food; for which purpose, he always fed them with vegetables, and kept them from exercise. The Romans, in the same manner, reared up rats when they intended them for food: the flesh of the partridge and the hen are nearly the same, with the exception only of the former being more on the wing; it is more alkalescent than the other. Tame animals are also commonly used without their blood, whereas the wild are usually killed in their blood; and on this account, as well as from the greater exercise they use, are more alkalescent. The quantity of volatile salt af- forded by any food, may determine its alkalescency. The older the meat the greater the proportion of it. It may also in some measure be deter- mined from its colour—the flesh of younger animals being whiter and less alkalescent. A criterion is also formed from the colour of the gravy it gives out; judging of the degree