Ill RI 2G8 with which it now remains). The name of a genus of plants in the Linnaean system. Class Peniandrici, order Monogynia. The currant tree. —See Currants. RIBES NIGRUM. — (Black Currant). An indigenous plant (racemis pilosis, Jloribus oblongis of Linnaeus), which produces larger ber- ries than those of the red, which are said to be peculiarly useful in sore throats, and to possess a diuretic property in a very considerable de- gree. The leaves of the black currant are extremely fragrant, and have been likewise recommended for their me- dicinal virtue, which Bergius states to be Mundificans, Pellens, Diuretica. RIBES RUBRUM. — (The Red Currant). The racemis glabris pen- dulis, floribusplaniuscidis of Linnaeus. The white currant tree is merely a variety of the red; the fruit of both is perfectly analagous, therefore, what is said of one applies to the other. The red currant is abun- dantly cultivated in gardens, and, from its grateful acidity, is very acceptable, either as presented by nature, or variously prepared by art, with the addition of sugar. Medi- cinally considered, it is esteemed to be moderately refrigerant, antiseptic, attenuant, and aperient. It may be used with considerable advantage to allay thirst in most febrile com- plaints; to lessen an increased se- cretion of bile, and to correct a putrid and scorbutic state of the fluids, especially in hot and sanguine constitutions ; but in temperaments of an opposite nature, it is apt to occasion flatulency and indigestion. To malce Currant Jelly.—Mash the currants, and pass them through a splinter sieve, put the pulp on the fire, stir it with a spoon till it begins to boil; then strain the mass through a flannel bag, to render the juice clear; measure it, and to every pint put one pound and a half of loaf sugar, and let it simmer very gently till you see, by dipping a spoon or skimmer in the jelly, and again raising it, the jelly forms a web upon it, which, if simmered long enough, will remain on the skimmer. Then take it off the fire, let it stand a few minutes till the scum collects on the surface, then remove it, and put the clear fluid into pots. When quite cold, cut pieces of writing paper to the size of the brim of the pots, steep the paper in brandy, and place it on the jelly.—See Vegetable Jellies. RlCE(Orysa).—An esculent grain, cultivated in the East Indies, and the Carolinas in North America, of an oval figure, and covered with a husk like barley. Rice contains a thin, unelastic, and easily soluble mucil- age. It is the general aliment of the people of the East, with whom it answers the same purpose as bread does with us. Thei'e formerly ex- isted a prejudice against the use of rice, that it has not only a tendency to produce costiveness, but also blindness—that it produces costive- ness is only so far true with people of weakened and languid constitu- tions, with whom also it is attended with flatulency, which sufficiently accounts for its secondary effects. And as regards its producing blind- ness, it is scarcely necessary to state that such an idea has no foundation in truth. It is generally considered as astringent, and is, therefore, a popular remedy in diarrhoea—no astringent principle, however, has yet been discovered in its composi- tion ; and it is probable that it is indebted for its properties, on such occasions, to the mild and bland mu- cilage with which it abounds, shield- ing the intestines from acrimonious humours. To avoid the disposition to costiveness and the consequent flatulence attending the use of rice, it ought to be eaten with the addition of some spice, such as cinnamon, fennel, caraway, aniseed, and the like, — particularly by those of a phlegmatic habit, and slow digestion. In India, where this grain is abun- dantly consumed, it is regularly eaten with such quantities of pepper, and