PO 256 PO October. Chickens, Pullets, Dotterels, Rabbits, Fowls, Snipes, Geese, Teal, Hares, Turkeys, Larks, Widgeons, Partridges, Wild Ducks, Pheasants, Pigeons, Woodcocks. November. Chickens, Pullets, Dotterels, Rabbits, Fowls, Snipes, Geese, Teals, Hares, Turkeys, Larks, Widgeons, Wild Ducks, Partridges, Pheasants, Pigeons, Woodcocks. December. Capons, Pigeons, Chickens, Pullets, Dotterels, Rabbits, Fowls, Snipes, Geese, Teal, Hares, Turkeys, Larks, Widgeons, Partridges, Wild Ducks, Pheasants, Woodcocks. POULTRY and WILD FOWL, &c.—Directions for the proper Choice of. 1. Btistards, to choose.—The same rule laid down for the choice of a turkey will hold good with respect to this curious bird. 2. Cocks and Hens, to choose.—• The spurs of a young cock are short, but the same precaution will be as necessary here in that point, as just observed on the choice of turkeys. Their vents will be open if they are stale, but close and hard if fresh. Hens are always best when full of eggs, and just before they begin to lay. The combs and legs of an old hen are rough, but smooth when young. The comb of a good capon is very pale, its breast is peculiarly fat, and it has a thick belly and a large rump. 3. Ducks, to choose.—The legs of a fresh killed duck are limber, and if it be fat its belly will be hard and thick; the feet of a stale duck are dry and stiff; the feet of a tame duck are inclining to a dusty yellow, and are thick; the feet of a wild duck are smaller than those of a tame one, and are of a reddish co- lour. Ducks must be picked diy, but ducklings scalded. 4. Geese, to choose. — A yellow bill, and feet with but few hairs on them, are the marks of a young goose, but these are red when old. Green geese are in season from May till June, till they are three months old. A stubble goose will be good till it be five or six months old, and should be picked dry, but green geese should be picked scalded. The same rules will hold good for wild geese, with respect to their being young or old. 5. Hares, to choose. — Both the age and freshness are to be consi- dered in the selection of a hare. When old the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the cleft wide and large; but if the claws be smooth and sharp, the ears tear easily, the cleft in the lip be not much spread, it is young. The body will be stiff, and the flesh pale, if newly killed; but if the flesh be turn- ing black, and the body limber, it is stale, though hares are not always considered as the worse for being kept till they turn a little. ' The principal distinction between a hare and a leveret is, that the leveret should have a knob, or small bone, near the foot on its fore leg, which a hare has not.—See Hare. 6. Partridges, to choose.—Autumn is the season for partridges, when, if young (the only ones fit for use), the legs will be yellowish, and the bill of a dark colour. If they are fresh the vent will be firm; but if stale it will look greenish, and the skin will peel when rubbed with the finger. If they be old the bill will be white and the legs blue; look at the extremity of the wing, if it is sharp pointed and whitish, the bird