TR TR 345 became a profession which was em- braced only by the lowest of man- kind. The exhibitions of the gla- diators were bloody and ferocious spectacles, which evinced the bar- barous taste of the age. The com- batants, however, were regularly trained by proper exercise, and a strict observance of regimen. In the more early stages, their diet consisted of dried figs, new cheese, and boiled grain. But afterwards animal food was introduced, as a part of the ath- letic regimen, and the preference was given to pork, which, Galen asserts, contains more real nutriment than the flesh of any other animal used as food—a fact which, he adds, is de- cidedly proved by the example of the Athletae, who, if they lived but for one day on any other kind of food, found their vigour manifestly im- paired the next. The preference, however, that was given by the an- cients to pork does not correspond with the practice of modern trainers, who entirely reject it in their regi- men, though in the manner of pre- paring their food they exactly agree, roasting or broiling being preferred to boiling by both, and bread unfer- mented, to that prepared by leaven. A very small quantity of fluid was allowed, and this was principally water. When the daily exercises of the ancient Athletae were finished, they were refreshed by immersion in a tepid bath, where the scurf, pus- tules, or other unctuous or clammy exudations and adhesions were re- moved from the skin by the use of the strygil.* The skin was then di- ligently rubbed dry, and again anointed with oil. if thirsty, they * An instrument used to scrape off the sweat during the gymnastic exercises of the ancients, and in their baths. Strigils were made of metal, horn, or ivory, and were curved. Some were made of linen, though coarse cloths may be advanta- geously adopted for it with the same intention. were permitted to drink a small quan- tity of warm water. They then took their principal meal, after which they used no more exercise that day. They went occasionally into the cold bath in the morning. They were permitted to sleep as many hours as they chose, and great increase of vigour, as well as of bulk, was sup- posed to be derived from long conti- nued and sound repose. Previously to entering on this regimen, they were subjected to the evacuating process, by means of emetics, which they preferred to purgatives. The sexual intercourse was strictly inter- dicted, and “ to exercise their pa- tience, and accustom them to endure pain without flinching, they were occasionally flogged on the back with the branches of a kind of rhododen- dron,! thl the blood flowed pretty plentifully. By diminishing the quantity of the circulating fluid, this rough kind of cupping was also con- sidered as salutary in obviating the tendency to plethora, to which they were peculiarly liable.” Pure and salubrious air was deemed an indis- pensable auxiliary, and accordingly, the principal schools of the Roman Athletae were established in Capua and Ravenna, the most beautiful places in all Italy. The mode of training for strength and address practised by the ancients, bears some resemblance to that now adopted by the moderns. But as modes of living, climate, and habits of life were somewhat different to those of the present age, the treat- ment now required to produce the same effects admits of variation, of which the following constitute the principal points to be attended to:— The first operation consists in clearing the stomach and bowels of all ob- structing and unwholesome sub_ t The name of a genus of plants in the Linnsean system, so called because its flowers resemble the rose. Class Dccandria, order Monoggnia.