350 TR TR be half-charred by a brisk heat, and this will form as strong a barrier as the French melted suet, in prevent- ing the escape of the juice. Care must be taken that none of the out- side, half-charred pieces be eaten, as these would most certainly injure the stomach : only the under-done parts in the interior are to be used, the more raw they are the better, pro- vided they be quite hot, and that the person can relish them ; this last cir- cumstance is indispensable, as food that is not relished is never easily digested; for the stomach being put out of humour with it at first, takes some time to recover its tone.—See Roasting. Broiling, however, is by far the best mode of dressing meat fox- training, as it is a much more perfect way of preventing the escape of the juices than even the process of roast- ing, performed as we have just di- rected, by first semi-charring the outside. The great staple articles, therefore, of training ax-e beef steaks aixd mutton chops, broiled and under-done, with the fat all carefully cut off before they are brought to table.—See Broiling. The seasoning is also of great im- pox-tance; for, by improper and high seasoning, all the other parts of the process, however carefully attended to, may be ruined. Mustard, pepper, and all hot spices, are prohibited, as producing a high stimulus, and con- sequently reducing the volume of the muscles by absorption. We ought not, however, object to a vex-y little plain mustard, if the under-done meat could ixot othex-wise be relished. Salt is nxox-e objectionable, from its tendency to px-oduce thix-st, thoxigh few caxx do well without it. Dr. Darwin was a declared enemy to salt altogether, and for a singular reason, namely, because it is the only mineral substance used at table. The fact is, that all animals, and particularly man, are the better for salt, if it be not taken in too great quaixtity. Salt provisions, however, it is to be carefully noted, are always inferior iix nutriment and digesti- bility to fresh, and ought, as we have already said, never to be used in training.—See Salt. Vinegar is the favourite condiment with modern trainers, though Few- terel deixounced all acid juices; but it is, we imagine, a much more qxxestionable seasoxxing than either mustard or pepper. It certainly prevents thix-st. In Yorkshire, the trainers have the meat steeped in vinegar. Time and Quantity of Eating.—• There is not a more important part of the regimen to be observed by a person under training, than the time of taking his meals, and the quantity of food he ought to use. In ordi- nary life, and more particxxlarly in faslxioixable life, this is very erro- neously managed; for nothing is more detrimental to health than ir- regular hours, long fasting between meals, and this followed by every kind of repletion. The trainers allow only two fxxll and substantial meals in the day, namely, breakfast at eight, and dinner at two, according to Mr. J acksoix; and at five, according to Mr. Hall, of Yorkshire. When the person camxot do without supper, a biscuit and a little cold meat is allowed at eight in the evening; but it is supposed that suppers of all kinds have an injurious effect on the lungs, or as they express it, on a man’s wind. With deference, how- ever1, to these authorities, an early, light, and nutritive supper-, would greatly benefit the trainee, and pre- vent the bad consequences to the wind, of going to bed with a full Stomach. The breakfast is a la fourr.hette, that is, a meat breakfast. Those accustomed to tea or coffee to breakfast, will find this one of the hardest rules to comply with. In- deed it is a standing rule of dietetics to interfere as little as possible with a customary breakfast, for the sto-