1024 REGIONAL SURGERY. cough is becoming, perhaps, suppressed, but the tendency is still present; where there is congestion of the face, and of the veins of the neck ; Avhere the chest does not distend fully and freely during inspiration ; or where, instead of congestion of the face and neck, we have a pale condition of the face, with blue lips, and a slow, irregular pulse ;—then the sooner tracheotomy is'per- formed the better. The blood is not being aerated properly, and we should, therefore, immediately make an opening in the trachea lower down than the obstruction, whatever that obstruc- tion be caused by, provided the medical remedies before men- tioned have been tried and have failed. In laryngitis we have no hesitation in operating, because the disease is limited and has no tendency to spread downwards. "Whatever may be said about the propriety of performing tracheotomy in crouj), no difference of opinion exists as to the necessity for the operation in the laryngitis of adults. In croup, on the contrary, there are conditions which have given rise to a difference of opinion. There is here, as already remarked, a tendency in the diseased condition to spread downwards, and we are therefore told that it is not disease of the larynx, but cynanche trachealis. Now this is just a case where the name of the disease influences its treatment. Cynanche Trachealis is a name chosen as a sort of distinction between croup and the laryngitis of adults, from the tendency to the formation of a false membrane in croup as opposed to laryn- gitis ; but it does not follow from this that the disease is not originally a disease of the larynx. I am quite convinced, from what I have seen of this disease, that it really commences in all cases in the larynx ; and I have no hesitation in saying this, whatever tendency there may be for the disease to spread down- wards from the larynx. The symptoms of laryngitis and of croup are exactly the same ; there is the same suffocating cough, the same difficult respiration, the same tenderness over the larynx ; and all the symptoms point to the larynx being affected from the very first. I feel convinced that in many cases of croup the disease is more confined to the larynx than is gene-