EXCISION OF MAMMA. 1109 for its removal; but, unless the distress caused by the bulk be very great, an operation should not be urged. Irritable Mamma is another condition in which the surgeon is not unfrequently urged by patients to excise the gland ; but it is purely a neuralgic affection, and the pain is almost certain to return in the cicatrix if the operation be performed, and hence our treatment should be constitutional rather than local. When lecturing on tumours, I have indicated the principles on which we should proceed in dealing with the different forms of tumour in this and other organs, and I pointed out that in doubtful cases, where there is a want of distinct definition, or when the patient is of such an age that the function of the gland has ceased, complete removal of the whole breast is the proper method of procedure. In the male we also occasionally meet with tumours of the breast requiring removal by operation. The usual method of performing Excision of the Mamma is by means of an elliptical incision, placed nearly parallel to the fibres of the great pectoral muscle. The patient being placed re- cumbent, the arm is separated from the side to render the pectoral muscle tense. The operator, holding the breast upwards so as to stretch the skin, first makes the lower incision at some little dis- tance below the nipple, then draws down the breast and makes the upper incision above the nipple so as to complete the ellipse. Care should be taken to preserve sufficient healthy skin to cover in the wound. The integuments are next dissected off the tumour. The dissection is then carried deeply through the fascia, covering the pectoral muscle and that fascia together, with the tumour dissected off from the muscular fibres. Should the tumour implicate the muscular fibres, they must also be re- moved. If any axillary glands are affected, the lower incision is carried outwards and upwards, the axillary fascia opened, and the gland seized with a vulsellum, carefully dissected or twisted out with the finger. The bleeding vessels are tied or twisted, and when this has been effected, the surfaces both of the tumour