1088 REGIONAL SURGERY. Case III.—Madeleine H. was admitted into the Royal Infirmary on the 29th of June 1857. About three hours hefore admission, while she was playing with a plum-stone and a cherry-stone in her mouth, they both suddenly slipped down her throat ; this was followed by a convulsive fit of coughing, and she was found by her mother lying on tlie ground in a paroxysm of dyspnoea ; the plum-stone was lying beside her, but the cherry-stone could not be found. I saw her at her house ; but, as the urgent symptoms had disappeared, and there seemed some doubt as to the history of the case, I sent her to the Infirmary to be carefully watched. On admission she had an occasional slight laryngeal cough, pain on pressure over the larynx, and an apparently altered tone of voice, but no difficulty or noise in breathing, atid no sign of tlae presence of a foreign body could be detected by the stethoscope. During tire night she was constantly watched, in case of asphyxia occurring suddenly. She slept quietly during most of the night, but towards morning had several very alarming attacks of dyspnoea, so much so, that tracheotomy was twice about to be performed. Next day she was much in the same condition ; and, after consulta- tion, tracheotomy was decided upon, and forthwitlr performed. After the first incision a severe fit of coughing came on, and the dyspnoea was so great that the operation was rapidly concluded on account of threatened asphyxia. As soon as the windpipe was opened, and the edges of the inci- sion separated, the foreign body was forcibly ejected by a violent expira- tion, and the breathing immediately became perfectly calm. A tube was introduced, but removed after three hours, the breathing being c[uite easy and chiefly by the natural air-passages after its removal. On the following day the edges of the wound were approximated by a strip of plaster ; the breathing was calm, and almost entirely through the larynx. The wound gradually closed, the patient's convalescence was uninter- rupted, and she was dismissed cured a weeli after admission. Remarks.—Tliis case is instructive as exemplifying the uncertainty which sometimes exists as to the presence of the foreign body. The accident frequently occurs when the child is playing; the child is suddenly attacked by a convulsive cough and threatened suffocation. On recovery from this paroxysm it says it has swallowed a plum or cherry stone ; but, as the symptoms pass off, and the breathing and speech become natural, the friends think that the foreign body has either been swallowed or coughed up, and that the danger is past; and medical aid is deemed imnecessary till another paroxysm of threatened asphyxia suddenly occurs. Such was the history in the case last narrated ;