STRICTURE OF (ESOPHAGUS. 1057 In stricture of the oesophagus, there is clifificulty in swallow- ing, and regurgitation of more or less of the food. Fluids are most readily swallowed, but should the stricture be very tight even these are rejected. There is uneasiness at some part of the oesophagus, and sometimes a pain is felt passing back from the sternum to the spine between the shoulders. The patient often complains of great irritation in the throat, and spits up tenacious mucus as if to clear the passage. If the stricture be low down, a pouch sometimes forms, and the food, after remaining for some hours, may be ejected in a semi-digested state. But I have seldom seen the simple stricture so low down as the cardiac ex- tremity of the stomach. Stricture of the oesophagus may be the result of a chronic affection of the mucous membrane, causing gradual constriction, or it may be due to the swallowing of an irritant or corrosive sub- stance, which, after exciting inflammation, is followed by persistent narrowing of the canal. In either case, there is consolidation of the sub-mucous texture, and afterwards of the muscular tissue— the canal being ultimately constricted by an effusion of lymph and cicatricial contraction. The complete circular constriction is rarely seen. The stricture is more generally due to a puckering at one point in the circumference of the canal. The diagnosis between the different forms of oesophageal con- traction is most important. Sometimes spasmodic simulates organic stricture. The former is generally distinguished by its remissions and exacerbations, and by its frequent occurrence in females about the menstrual periods, and the almost constant presence of the symptom of the globus hystericus. In spasmodic stricture, the passage of a bougie, exciting muscular action, is apt to mislead, and therefore we use means to prevent spasm. If the patient be put under chloroform, and the large tube pass easily, the case is one of spasmodic contraction ; but if the con- striction still remain, it is organic, either simple or malignant. A patient labouring under organic stricture has generally a pinched and emaciated appearance, like a person who is suffering from slow starvation. The symptoms of malignant stricture occur more suddenly and progress more rapidly than in the