EXTRA-PERITONEAL OPERATION. 1165 place by deposition of lymph and condensed cellular texture from without, and the smooth surface of the peritoneum only becomes contracted towards the very last. In recent cases, by scraping rather than cutting on the constricted part, we can often readily reduce the hernia without opening the sac. This is called the extra-peritoneal method of operating. The next thing to consider is the state of the bowel when exposed. If we have operated early and by the extra-peritoneal method, we do not see this ; we simply return the contents of the sac into the abdomen, taking care not to push it up m masse. It is very important to remember this rule in small herniae, for in them we might push the small knuckle of gut up within the abdominal parietes without relieving the stricture, and this is more apt to occur if the sac be not opened. To avoid this in the extra-peritoneal method, we must take care as to the mode of dividing the constriction. We see the constriction in the tightness existing round the swelling; we find the parts above and below distended, and when we scrape through the fibres causing the constriction, the indentation on the sac immedi- ately becomes effaced, showing that the constriction is relieved, and that the contents of the upper portion of the bowel pass down to the portion in the sac. The protruded intestine can then be readily returned from the sac into the abdomen. We may then invaginate the sac, if it be small and loosely con- nected, and so get it out of the way of the pressure of the thick retaining pad. In inguinal hernia, however, we cannot generally do this. When we require to examine the state of the bowel, we must open the sac. This is an important point in the question between the extra-peritoneal, and the ordinary operation in which the sac is opened. Why do we open the sac in any case when the bowel is to be returned ? My answer to this is, that in many cases when I commence the operation I cannot be sure that the bowel is in a state to be returned. The extra-peritoneal opera- tion is proper when the case is very recent, and when there is no reason to suspect any alteration in the structure of the bowel,