1060 REGIONAL SURGERY. nothing to indicate malignancy." Sncli is Mr. Fergusson's history of tlie patient whilst under his care. I first examined this patient in August last, at the request of Mr. Lawrie, to whom she had applied for advice. She at that time complained of great pain in the remainiug portion of the jaw, a little in front of the angle of the bone, and on examination, a hard tumour, about the size of a large walnut, flattened, could be felt situated in front of the angle of the jaw. Her own history of the disease was similar to that given by Mr. Fer- gusson, except that she stated that a piece of bone had been discharged from the left as well as from the right side of the jaw, and that the tumour for which she now consulted me had existed for about five years before the former operation was performed. As she stated that the tumour was enlarging, that the pain had of late become more violent, and as her health was sinking from the want of rest and continued suffering ; and as, judging from the firm feel and previous history of the tumour, it did not seem malignant, I recommended her to have it removed. To this, however, she could not then make up her miiid to submit. In the end of September I was again requested to see her, when the pain had become so violent that she said she would submit to anything that would relieve her. I showed the case to Sir George Ballingall, Professor Syme, and Mr. Nasmyth, and these gentlemen coincided with me in recommending an operation. I performed the operation on the 20th of October last (1842), in presence of Sir George Ballingall and several medical friends, and assisted by Drs. Handyside, Duncan, and Mr. Nasmyth. Entering the bistoury in front of the insertion of the masseter muscle, I transfixed the membrane of the mouth, carried the knife forward along the bone and cut outwards, dividing the prolabium and other soft parts a little to the left of the symphysis, and thus at once formed a flap which laid bare the tumour, and enabled me to apply the saw to it. Having ascertained its nature, and finding that its entire removal was necessary, I made an incision down- wards from over the articulation of the jaw, terminating in the external end of the former incision. The semilunar flap so formed was then dis- sected up, the bone cleared from the soft parts on its inner surface, and sawn in front of the canine tooth. I then depressed the bone so as to enable me to divide the insertion of the temporal muscle, and completed the operation by disarticulating the lateral portion of the jaw ; five arteries were tied, some slips of lint placed in the deep part of the wound, and the edges of the incision were then brought together by some points of inter- rupted suture, except at one point midway between the ear and chin, which was left open for the ends of the ligatures to hang out. Everything proceeded favourably ; the external incision healed by the first intention except where the ligatures hung out. The slips of lint were removed from the deep incision on the third, and the patient was sitting up on the ninth day. The last ligature came away on the twelfth day. This ligature had been brought out at the up^jer part of the incision in front of the ear, and on its separation saliva continued to flow from the opening for some days, but it soon healed iinder the use of pressure, by means of a compress of lint applied over the fistulous opening.