CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1413 from the effects of a drastic purgative given by mistake. Lastly, in a case which occurred to the late Dr. Eichard Mackenzie, it vi'as found, on the patient's death some weeks after the operation, that the irregular obturator had encircled the neck of the sac, but had escaped division. (See woodcut at p. 1207.) Now, these cases show that the artery has been accident- ally cut, and also accidentally avoided ; but the case I have re- corded goes a step farther, for it shows that the surgeon, by pro- ceeding cautiously, and feeling with the pulp of his finger before dividing the constriction formed by the deeper or higher portion of the crural arch, may detect the presence of the irregular vessel, and then, by cautiously notching the constriction, to a very slight extent, at two points of its circumference, he will gain room sufficient to enable him, either with his nail or the point of a small flat director, to push the artery out of the way, while he divides the stricture more fiilly. By following this plan, I was enabled to relieve the constric- tion, so far as to draw down and examine the intestines contained in the sac, and readily to reduce the portion of the ileum, so that, under ordinary circumstances, no further incision would have been necessary, and the vessel would have remained intact. Of course, if the operator holds the opinion that the whole thickness of the crural arch, including Poupart's ligament, ought to be divided in every case, then the irregular vessel runs a much greater risk than if he limits his incision to the division of that portion of the arch formed by the convergence of the abdominal fasciae, below Poupart's ligament, which immediately constricts the sac, and which is all that I have almost ever found it necessary to divide in cases of femoral hernia. Secondly. The case, however, shows that certain complications, occurring in a femoral hernia where the irregular obturator artery was present, might render it necessary to divide the surrounding textures so freely, for the purpose of reducing the protrusion, that there would be very great risk of wounding the vessel; or that, from the artery tightly surrounding the protrusion, it may ab- solutely req^uire to be divided, as itself an obstacle to reduction :