1110 REGIONAL SURGERY. and wound sliould be carefully examined before closing the wound, to make sure that no portion of diseased texture is left. The surface of the wound is cleansed by pouring tepid water freely over it, and then the margins of the incision are approxi- mated and retained by silver sutures. I generally insert three or four sutures very deeply and at some distance from the free margins and other intermediate points of suture between these, to unite the margins very exactly. A narrow piece of gutta- percha tissue is fixed over the line of incision by means of chloroform, and a soft towel folded flatly, and supported by a broad bandage, is applied for the first twenty-four hours. After- wards no dressing should be applied to the wound, which generally heals throughout its superficial extent at least. In my own practice I usually leave the axillary end of the incision open, to allow the serous or bloody discharges to escape, and so pre- vent the formation of abscesses subsequenty. In many cases, owing to the form of the tumour to be removed, we may require to make our incisions in a different direction. Incisions directed from above downwards and out- wards answer very well. Sometimes crucial or T incisions may be required, but as a general rule, a straight incision from above downwards, should be avoided. After excision of the breast, the arm should be kept close to the side, and all motion prevented. I shall now direct your attention to the subject of Injuries OF THE Chest and their results, and first to Fractures of the EiBS.—The ribs may be broken at any point, but generally they give way about the angle, or a little in front of it. In old people, where the cartilages are ossified, we sometimes find the ribs broken at the junction between the bone and the cartilage; and in very young children, where the union is not quite com- plete, separation occurs at the same place. These injuries gener- ally arise from direct violence. The patient complains of pain in breathing and on attempting to cough. There is seldom any projection at the fractured point, unless the fracture be a very severe one, and hence we require to take some care in