MORTALITY AFTER LITHOTOMY. 1275 phlebitic pyeemia. That unfortunate complication arises in old or elderly men from irritation and inflammation of the large prostatic veins, branches of the inferior plexus, being necessarily implicated by the incision. The symptoms generally manifest themselves by a rigor, fever, quick pulse, and slight nausea, about the eighth or tenth day. In one of my cases—a gentleman, fifty- eight years of age—the symptoms did not supervene until the fourth week, when the woixnd was all but healed. The patient had gone on most favourably, and I had ceased to visit him except occasionally. On calling one day he complained of not feeling so well, and attributed it to having partaken rather largely of hare-soup ; but his pulse was quick, and he had some tender- ness over the liver; as he had suffered from hepatitis in a warm climate, I was in hopes that the symptoms might pass off; but the next day he had two rigors, and had vomited several times. The small portion of the wound which remained open was dry. The pulse was 140, and the skin was hot, dry, and slightly jaundiced, and he died about a week from the acces- sion of the bad symptoms. The wound had contracted, and there was no trace of irritation in the bladder; the prostatic veins were engorged, otherwise they seemed healthy, but the liver was studded with numerous abscesses. My experience from the results of my own practice, as well as my observation of the practice of other surgeons, leads me to believe that, apart from the operative procedure, the mortality in lithotomy is mainly due to causes not under our control. The size of the stone in relation to the width of the parts through which we must extract it, and a rigid unyielding condition of the prostate met with in some elderly and old men, in whom we also most generally find enlarged prostatic veins, seem to me the conditions which continue to diminish the favourable statistics of lithotomy. Of children and boys under twenty years of age I have lost only one patient, and in adults between twenty-one and forty only one ; but out of thirty patients between the ages of fort}- and eighty-two I have lost seven, and all these fatal cases occurred in patients between the ages of fifty-six and seventy- 4 0