THE TAXIS. 1159 In a case of incarcerated or strangulated hernia, where it cannot be easily reduced, the surgeon must have recourse to other measures ; and the first of these is the Taxis. Although, in the ordinary reduction, the pressure by which the hernia is returned may be called taxis, yet by taxis we mean reduction by mani- pulation, where the hernia is not, as usual, reducible by the patient, and where a certain amount of incarceration has occurred. The first thing to do is to ascertain whether the difficulty in the reduction does not depend on the protrusion having been twisted upon itself, as very often happens in femoral hernia, where, from the way in which the hernia descends under the falciform edge, the body bends upon the neck, and tends to pass towards the abdomen. In such cases, therefore, we cannot press back the tumour directly, for then the pressure would not be in the axis of the opening through which the tumour has passed. Hence we must always attend to the position of the tumour, and its relations to the canal or opening through which it has passed. Again, the tumour may yield to a certain extent in relation to the canal, but if it be very bulky, and if we press directly upwards or backwards, we press the mass of distended intes- tine and omentum over the margins of the opening, and thus create a difficulty. Hence attention to the position of the tumour, and the mode of dealing with the bulk which is protruded, are very important in attempting reduction. Often no difficulty occurs in reducing the bowel, if these little points be attended to. The difficulty, however, more generally occurs from a certain amount of incarceration and constriction being present, and a loss of proportion between the protruded parts and the opening through which they originally passed. In reducing such a hernia in the early stage, when the patient begins to feel a little nausea or vomiting and pain in the tumour and abdomen, but without any great general disten- sion of the abdomen, and where there is no reason to suppose there is any absolute strangulation, the first thing to do is to relax the parts, and place the patient in as favourable a