REGIONAL SURGERY. 13G2 sion into the tunica vaginalis, evacuating its contents, and then removing as much of the anterior and lateral walls of the sac as we can without injury to the testis and cord ; and, if the scrotum is much distended, a portion of it may also be removed with advantage. After all bleeding vessels have been secured, the surface of the portion of the sac which has been left is brushed over with a solution of perchloride of iron, or spirit of turpen- tine, and slips of lint or charpie laid lightly in the cavity. Sub- sequently, as suppuration and granulation proceed, the dressings must be conducted on the general principles applicable to all granulating surfaces. In those cases where the tunica vagi- nalis is ossified or cartilaginous, the testicle is compressed and atrophied, and so connected with the altered texture that its function is destroyed. In such cases, the best plan of treat- ment is to remove the whole mass, along with a portion of the scrotum, by castration. In cases where a large part of the con- tents of the sac is fluid, you might be tempted to draw it off, but such a procedure is almost invariably followed by decompo- sition and putrescence of the remaining semi-solid contents of the sac, exhalation of foetid gases, and formation of purulent matter, the presence and confinement of which give rise to intense irrita- tive fever. "When such practice has been adopted, and these con- ditions supervene, no time should be lost in laying the cavity freely open, washing it out with Condy's fluid, and subsequently with carbolic lotion, and applying charcoal poultices over the parts; at the same time using the general treatment necessary to allay the constitutional irritation. The disease termed Cirsocele is varix of the spermatic veins. Varicocele is also sometimes used to denote that condi- tion, as well as a general varicose state of the scrotal veins. There shoiild seldom be any difficulty in arriving at a correct diagnosis of this affection. The tortuous distorted veins, and their relation to the cord and testicle, are in general sufficiently obvious, whilst the feeling they communicate to the fingers when grasped, and impulse given to the blood contained in them