1171 TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED OMENTUM. masses of omentum sometimes found in operating for strangu- lated hernia, especially in old large hernias, requires some con- sideration. In many instances, after division of the constric- tion and reduction of the intestine, we find that the omentum left in the sac is very bulky, and partially or largely adherent to the sac, or large portions of it are nodulated and altered in form and consistence. The reduction of a very large mass of omentum, even sup- posing no adhesions or alteration in structure have occurred, is always attended with the risk of exciting peritonitis, owing to the manipulations required; for it does not glide back like the intestine. Every portion requires to be guided and pressed back, and when it has suffered from strangulation, its vessels are congested, and then portions of the serous texture are liable to be lacerated by the manipulations necessary to return it. In other cases, when adherent or when altered in structure, form- ing as it often does a large pedunculated mass, the difficulties and dangers are increased. Under these circumstances, the question arises whether there is least danger incurred by re- moving the protruded mass, or using efforts to reduce it. If the portion of omentimi be not. very large, inadherent, and pre- sents a healthy appearance, the proper treatment is to enlarge the incision of the constriction freely, and gradually reduce the mass, keeping the sac intervening between the omentum and the fingers. If the protruded omentum be of moderate bulk, and only partially adherent to the sac, divide the adhesion, taking care to twist or tie a small vessel that may ooze, and then proceed as in the forjner case. In cases where the omen- tum is very bulky and loaded with fat, or consolidated and altered in form, so that the incision of the abdominal parietes would require to be very large to enable us to return it, and even then only with considerable manipidation and probable irritation or laceration, the safest plan is to remove it. The neck of the mass is firmly grasped by the assistant, and trans- fixed with a needle armed with a fine silk or catgut ligature, the loop of the ligature divided, and each portion of the neck of the