REGIONAL SURGERY. 1166 and when there can be no hesitation in returning the bowel. But if the hernia has been constricted for forty-eight hours, I would not feel justified in performing that operation, for in that time changes may have taken place in the bowel itself, and the very reduction of the affected bowel might prove fatal to the patient. The extreme advocates, however, of the extra-peritoneal method say that we try the taxis, and hence, say they, you would have been quite content to return the bowel by the taxis without seeing it, and why not after operation ? But it is clear that if the taxis reduces the hernia, the parts have not been actually strangulated, while, if the taxis does not succeed, it shows that strangulation has occurred; and if some time has elapsed during which the hernia has been down, the condition of the bowel may be such as to render it unwarrantable to reduce it into the abdomen. A doubt as to the fitness of the bowel for return is thus raised, and when there is any doubt I prefer to open the hernial sac and see the state of its contents. We often find, when operating for hernia, that the moment the bowel is brought into view, and the stricture divided, if we then try to push up the gut, we very often succeed readily enough, and often without any harm resulting ; but this is not very safe, for we should see the state of the bowel at the constricted part. We must not judge by what we see pro- truded below the constriction, we want to see the part which has been subjected to the greatest pressure, and also to make sure that we have thoroughly divided the stricture. I therefore gently draw down a portion of the bowel from above, which brings into view the part which has been subjected to the con- striction, and from this part I judge whether to return the bowel or not, for this part may show symptoms of incipient gangrene, and if it were returned the results would be fatal. We should therefore always examine the bowel in this way ; and this also gets rid of the indentation of the gut, which sometimes remains for a length of time. It moreover shows us the state of the bowel above; and I think this is important, for I judge of the result of the case very much by the appearance of the bowel