CA THETERISM IN THE FEMALE. 1341 before the head of the infant descends so as to compress and alter the position of the urethra ; and it also sometimes results after tedious or difficult labours. Atony of the bladder from over-distension, or paralysis from disease of the nervous centres, may, as in the male, occasionally lead to retention, but compara- tively rarely, as the size and shortness of the passage allow the urine to flow off. Stricture of the female urethra is an exceed- ingly rare disease, but it is occasionally met with, and most generally arises from some local injury of the passage. The orifice is not unfrequently obstructed by caruncles or warty growths, and one peculiarly painful growth, situated at the orifice of the urethra, sometimes causes complete retention of urine from sympathetic irritation, and the excessive pain caused in micturition. The growth is prominent, often pedunculated, and has the appearance of a small raspberry. In most instances there is no difficulty in relieving retention of urine in the female by means of catheterism, but, except in cases of unusual character, no exposure is permissible, and hence the introduction of the instrument requires some tact. The direction usually given as the best to guide the instrument into the orifice of the urethra, and avoid the more patent orifice of the vagina, is to pass the finger from the vestibule backwards until the point of the finger feels the papillary swelling of the urethral orifice. In many cases where we require to use the catheter, as in women who have borne children, the urethral orifice almost lies within the dilated vagina. The surest plan in all cases is to place the forefinger of the left hand in the vagina behind the orifice of the urethra, and with the catheter carried on the forefinger of the right hand to guide the instrument into the orifice. The position of the left forefinger prevents the in- strument passing into the vagina, or, if it tends to do so, detects the error at once, and then, by guiding the catheter a little forwards, it almost certainly enters the proper canal, and is easily carried on towards the bladder. A short flattened silver catheter is generally used, and answers well enough. The ordi- nary gum-elastic male catherer, without the stilette, will, how-