WOUNDED INTESTINE. 1131 root of the mesentery been injured. When the intestine is wounded, we may introduce a few points of herring-bone or glovers' suture, if the wound be small. When the wound is larger, the same suture may be used, but the chance of recovery is much less if we stitch it up and return the bowel into the cavity, than it is if we make an arti- ficial anus, and so allow the faeces to pass by the external wound. A large wound of the intestine is always a most unfavourable condition. If the upper portion of the jejunum be wounded, the prognosis is unfavourable, for then the food is not properly digested, and the patient is likely to die from inanition, and this independently of the peritonitis and other conditions which may arise. If the bowel is not wounded, it should be returned into the cavity of the abdomen. In returning a considerable portion of the small intestine, there is a very great risk in pushing it inwards, especially if the wound be not very large, that it may be pressed up between the fascia trans- versalis and the muscles, or between that fascia and the peri- toneum. The portion of the intestine is thus pushed back out of sight, apparently within the abdomen, but really external to the deep wound in the peritoneum, which is probably small. The protruded portion of the gut will thus become constricted. Hence we should always follow the intestine with the finger, to make sure that it passes fairly back into the abdomen, for I have seen more than one case in which the above-mentioned accident has happened. If we find, on passing the finger deeply, that the opening in the peritoneum is small in proportion to the mass of intestine protruded, we must enlarge the opening so as to allow the free return of the gut into the peritoneal sac. When the intestine is completely returned, we stitch up the external wound, after having first checked all bleeding from its margins. Then a pad and a spica bandage are applied as after the opera- tion for hernia, so as to support the weak point of the abdomen, and prevent protrusion recurring. Opiates must be given, to procure rest and allay irritation in 4 E