1232 REGIONAL SURGERY. move the sound with, great care and lightness over the in- terior of the bladder. If the patient has been placed as directed, the instrument naturally glides down the inclined plane from the prostatic part of the urethra, over the trigone, towards the posterior fundus of the bladder, and, as the stone has most likely fallen back in that direction, it may strike it at once. If it does not, the curved extremity should, by merely rotating the handle, be moved first to one side and then to the other. If this manoeuvre does not succeed in detecting the calculus, then the sound is made to sweep round the whole surface, and, as it is withdrawn to near the neck of the bladder, the concavity of its curve is turned backwards, so that the point may search the sac-like part of the " bas fond" of the bladder, which exists when there is an enlargement of the prostate. If not felt there, the concavity is turned for- wards, in case the stone be resting on the pubis, a position it sometimes occupies, although this is not likely to be the case when the patient is recumbent. Should nothing be felt, the patient is then brought into the erect position, and the catheter may be used to empty the bladder gradually, when the stone, if there be one, will probably be brought in contact with the instrument. It is advisable, however, to avoid introducing many different instruments ; and, if the form of sound I have described, or the scoop lithotrite be used, if the handle be a little depressed, so that the large extremity is re- moved from the neck of the bladder, the patient in most cases can pass water by the side of the instrument, and there is therefore no use in introducing the catheter, and irritation is thus avoided. When the calculus is touched, the surgeon passes the end of the sound over its surface, so as to gain some idea of its length and breadth; next, he passes the point by the side of the stone to measure its thickness ; and then, passing the sound under it, he determines its mobility, and at the same time gains some notion of its weight. The knowledge so gained, however, is very imperfect, as you may easily conceive. If, however, the lithotrite be used as a sound, then, when the foreign