1318 REGIONAL SURGERY. as I have said, was at one time extensively practised, and is still, I believe, practised by some surgeons. I consider that destruction of the contraction by caustic is exceedingly dangerous. I have treated and seen many cases of stricture in v^^hich caustic had been previously used, and have no hesitation in saying that they were the most troublesome and worst cases I have had to deal with. In most of them, the complications of abscesses in the prostate, or fistula in perineo, were present, with irritable bladder and tendency to renal disease. In all, the strictures had become contracted and hardened by the application of the caustic, and had the constant tendency to contract after dilatation, so that, before the use of perineal sec- tion, it was almost impossible to keep the canal patent by the use of instruments. Whately and Wade's method, by the use of potassa fusa instead of nitrate of silver, which was also attempted to be revived some fifteen years ago, is, if possible, worse. I have, in several cases, seen false passages resulting from its use. In one instance a patient applied to me, saying he had a bad stricture. I used a No. 10 bougie, as I generally do when examining a patient for the first time. The instrument passed, with the greatest ease, apparently, into the bladder, so that I could fully depress the handle, and feel its point free in a cavity. As it is not a very unusual thing to find, on examination of supposed stricture cases, that there is no strictiire, I merely observed that, from the way in which the instrument passed, I did not think there was any great obstruc- tion ; on which the patient said, " The bougie has gone by the false passage, and if you examine you will find its point in the gut;" and so it was. The caustic had established a false passage into the rectum large enough to admit a No. 13 bougie, whilst a No. 3 catheter could only be passed with difficulty by the true passage through the contraction. I succeeded in curing the stricture by gradual dilatation, and the false passage contracted, but never closed completely, so that great care was required in passing instruments. Unfortunate results like these show the un- certainty and danger of using such agents as caustics, which may