DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 1283 or paralysed bladder, we are apt to be disappointed with the comparatively small stream which results. This is due to the want of contractile power in that organ, for it does not propel its contents, as a healthy bladder would do, and what little force the stream possesses is due more to the action of the abdominal muscles than to any other cause. Under frequent use of the catheter, the atonic bladder regains tone, and eventually con- tracts arife empties itself normally. In the slighter cases of retention, the bladder should be stimulated to action by sina- pisms over the spine and upper part of the sacral region, and heat should be applied to the lower part of the abdomen. The patient should be admonished to pass water frequently, so as to prevent large accumulations in the bladder, and then it will more readily regain its power. Amongst the most common of the causes of retention of urine are Diseases of the Prostate Gland. These are of great importance, and the different conditions require careful attention. There may be simple hypertrophy, or chronic or acute prostatitis, or malignant disease. Acute prostatitis is met with occasionally in young people. It is characterised by the ordinary symptoms of inflammation, one of which, the sivelling, gives rise to an additional symptom—that of obstruction to the flow of urine. On examination by the rectum, the gland will be felt enlarged, and very tender to the touch. What we have to deal with in connection with such a case, in the first instance, is the retention of urine, and you may well imagine that in such circumstances the passing of a catheter is attended with great pain, as well as danger, and this applies also to scrofulous disease of the prostate. If, therefore, any other means of relieving the bladder can be devised, they should be adopted. Opiate enemata and the warm bath should be tried; if these fail, the patient should be put under chloroform, and the urine drawn off with the catheter. A medium-sized catheter, say No. 7 or 8, is likely to be attended with least risk. This, if skilfuUy managed, will effect the desired result.-