1289 GENERAL TREATMENT. tendency in prostatic disease, however, is for the urine to be- come alkaline, and therefore we should be very cautious in giving alkalies too freely. We often require to give some nitric or nitro-muriatic acid to relieve the irritable state of the bladder caused by the presence of phosphatic or ammoniacal urine. In the earlier stages, and when no uraemic symptoms are present, the use of opium will sometimes relieve the pain and irritation, and the use of leeches to the verge of the anus, with warm fomenta- tions to the perineum, and sinapisms over the loins or sacrum, win occasionally relieve the congestion of the prostate. Iodide and bromide of potassium have been much used, and lauded as not merely relieving symptoms, but as diminishing the enlarge- ment of the prostate, but I cannot say I have ever seen much benefit from their use. In the more advanced stages of prostatic disease, attended with constitutional disturbance, we must be very cautious in giving opium, for there is a tendency to uremia, and the use of that drug is attended with danger, for the symptomatic coma of uraemia is very similar to that of opium-poisoning, and even a small opiate may determine an unfavourable issue, by increasing the tendency to coma. Henbane is preferable in such cases, when we require to use an anodyne. The means I have mentioned relieve the congestion and the irritable state of the bladder and kidneys, and then, in most cases, by the use of simple diluents, or of acid or alkaline drinks, according to the state of tlie urine, the general condition of the urinary organs is improved. In short, we must attend to the general condition of the patient. The diet should be nutrient, but not too stimulating. The best stimulants are the light Ehenish wines or claret, for they do not tend to irritate the bladder as most of the red wines do ; they also prevent the urine from be- coming alkaline, and are slightly astringent. If there be any malignant disease of the prostate, or if, in any case, there be much discharge of blood from the bladder, gallic acid, in 6-grain doses every three or four hours, may-be given with very great advantage. As a prophylactic in some