1285 ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTA TE. central and posterior part may be altered in size, form, and direction, constituting enlargement of the third lobe. A portion of the central part of the gland protrudes, so as to form a sort of valvular projection into the bladder and over the orifice of the urethra, and, when inflammation or engorgement occurs, the urine is prevented from passing out. In some instances this projection of the third lobe is almost pedunculated in form, so that when the urine is pressed down by the contraction of the bladder, the projection is forced before it against the opening of the urethra, and closes it like a valve. In other cases again the gland is not so much enlarged, as very dense and elongated, and the greater portion of it lying above the urethra. When this form of enlargement of the gland occurs, it becomes very much elongated, and the prostatic urethra is stretched almost to a straight line upwards, at an acute angle to the membranous portion. As I have mentioned, a larger portion of the glaud-substance lies on the pubic than on the sacral aspect of the urethral canal. If we examine such a prostate from the rectum, and at the same time have an instru- ment in the bladder, we feel no great enlargement of the gland. On the contrary, we feel that the finger is nearer the instrument than usual, but we also feel that the gland-substance is elongated and stretches up beyond the reach of the finger. Another condition is sometimes met with, namely, enlarge- ment of the gland, attended with peculiar symptoms. It may occur at any period of life, but is most common in people above middle age. The symptoms supervene rapidly. There is exces- sive and constant pain, frequent desire to make water, and much blood is passed by the urethra. On examining by the rectum, the gland is felt enlarged, but soft. On introducing a catheter, in passing it through the prostatic part of the urethra it seems to sink through a soft mass, and bleeding, occasionally very pro- fuse, occurs after vdthdrawing the instrument. There is great local irritation, the constitution sympathises, and the patient be- comes cachectic. These conditions are symptomatic of fungoid tumour, or malignant soft cancer of the prostate.