CROUP. 1021 advantage consider tliem together. There is pain in the larynx and trachea, aggravated by pressure, or by attempts at swallow- ing, wliich may lead to a sense of suffocation at the time. In general there is a good deal of cough ; and in croup we have a peculiar kind of cough, with a hard ringing metallic or " brassy" sound. There is always a considerable degree of fever, and the child is restless and tosses about. The tone of voice in all cases becomes hoarse, whether in tlie adult or child, and sometimes there is complete aphonia. Eespiration is accompanied with a peculiar stridulous sound, which becomes more marked as the disease progresses. After a time there is a suffocating cough, which comes on in paroxysms. In cases where the disease is in its advanced stage, the respiration is very peculiar, and consists of a pi-olonged slow inspiration, with great depression of the supra- sternal fossa, followed by a short, rapid, and forcible expiration —the inspiration being accompanied witli a peculiar stridu- lous sound. This is accounted for by the textures at the upper part of the glottis being swollen and inflamed. The movements of the glottis consec[uently induce spasm of the muscles, so that the passage is still further narrowed, and the air enters with diflfl- culty. In addition to this, the mucous surfaces are roughened by the inflammatory exudation, and hence the peculiaa' inspira- tion. The expiration is short, because the expiratory muscles act violently, and the qiiantity of air in the lungs not being equal generally to the normal standard, its expulsion takes place with the greater rapidity. In cedema glottidis we have, after a time, a mechanical obstruction to the expiration as well as to the inspiration ; but, in the earlier stages of this disease, we have the peculiar prolonged inspiration, with a stridulous noise, and the short and rapid expiration, as in croup or laryngitis. In croup an exudation of lympli, either in a granular form or as a false membrane, is formed upon the mucous surface of the trachea as well as that of the larynx, and this distinguishes the disease from simple laryngitis. The false membrane has a great tendency to extend along the air-passages, so as sometimes to produce a complete tubular cast of the trachea and bronchi. In