1186 REGIONAL SURGERY. all tlie circumstances. By applying cold over tlie swelling, or at a later stage by opiate fomentations, and the administration of anodynes, tlie swelling and painful symptoms usually abate. If, however, the symptoms become aggravated, I can conceive of the necessity for the surgeon cutting down upon the swelling to ascertain whether it be a hernia; and in case it was not, there would be no great harm done, the gland would be relieved from compression, and by a little gentle traction it might be brought into the scrotum. In all the cases I have seen, however, the symjptoms have passed off under rest and treatment, without necessitating such an operation. The diseased conditions which may simulate an inguinal hernia when it has descended into the scrotum are, Hydrocele, Hsematocele, Cirsocele, and special tumours of the cord or testis. The distinguishing marks between hydrocele and hernia are, the general form of the tumour and its relation to the cord and testis. In an ordinary scrotal hernia, the protrusion having descended in front of the cord from above, the whole extent of the cord is covered by the swelling, and the testicle can be felt at the bottom of the scrotum below the hernia. Now, in hydrocele, the cord can generally be felt free in the inguinal canal and at the external ring, whilst the testicle cannot in general be felt, as the sac of the tunica vaginalis is distended round it. Then the swelling in hydrocele has no distinct impulse given it by the patient coughing ; it has swollen gradually from below upward, there is dulness on percussion, and on examining it with the transmitted light of a taper it is generally transparent. In haematocele the weight of the swelling, its dulness on percussion, and the rela- tions to the cord and testicle, as in hydrocele, together with the history of the case, are in general sufficiently diagnostic. In most cases of cirsocele there is really little or no difficulty of diagnosis, the relations of the swollen veins to the testicle, the peculiar sensation on feeling the distended vessels, the way in which they can be emptied by pressure when the patient is re- cumbent, and the manner in which the swelling gradually returns when the patient is erect, even though the finger is pressed on