1204 REGIONAL SURGERY. The crural arcli is of great importance in reference to the taxis and operation, and considered anatomically it is a very com- plicated structure, but we have not time to enter fully on the subject here. I would merely refer you to the simple and com- prehensive statement given by Mr. Listen of the disposition of the lower crural arch, as distinguished from Poupart's ligament— which I have verified in its main points in a very large number of dissections—as a model of anatomical description. He explains that the iliac portion of the fascia lata, together with its falciform process, is formed by the union of the deep layer of the abdominal superficial fascia (Scarpa's fascia) with the fascia transversalis, below Poupart's ligament; which ligament lies enclosed between these two laminae, above their angle of junction, so that the com- bined fasciae referred to, form in fact the resisting portion of the arch which is in contact with the neck of the hernial sac. This can be proved by dividing and removing Poupart's ligament, and rendering tense the fasciae, when the constricting edge will still be felt. The only point of description in which Mr. Liston's views are defective in regard to these structures is, that he did not keep sufficiently in view the strong attachment of the deep layer of the structure to the posterior reflected edge of Poupart's ligament, and the tension consequently exerted upon that ligament by the fascia lata in certain positions of the limb. In applying the taxis in femoral hernia, we are told to flex the leg on the thigh, and the thigh on the pelvis, and rotate inwards. How does this afl^ect the crural arch? It cannot affect Pou- part's ligament directly, because this stretches between two fixed osseous points, and it is only in so far as it is curved down- wards by its attachment to the fascia lata that we can act upon it at all. It is only by acting on the falciform edge that we can relax the lower crural arch. As the fascia iliaca and fascia transversalis pass down, Scarpa's fascia, which is the deep layer of the superficial abdominal fascia, becomes perfectly continuous with the anterior layer of the iliac or outer portion of the fascia lata; whilst behind Poupart's ligament the fascia transversalis descends and becomes continuous with the posterior or deep sur-