1030 REGIONAL SURGERY. blood-poison. In some of these there was occasionally the com- plication of recurring dyspncea ; though more in appearance than reality, the jactitation and restlessness being rather due to febrile excitement. Without detailing every case, I will select two or three typical of the conditions alluded to. The first example I select is that of a previously healthy girl of five years, a patient of Dr. Menzies. The history of the case at first was that of ordinary croup, progressing, in spite of active treatment, to threatened suffocation, for which tracheotomy was performed, with immediate relief; and for the first four days everything seemed favourable. Then the pulse became quick, but weaker, accompanied with febrile excitement. The white diphtheritic pellicle was first noticed on the pharynx on the fifth day. In the course of that day it spread over the tonsils, uvula, palate, and mucous lining of the cheeks and lips. Kext, she was noticed to swallow with difficulty, part of the fluids regurgitating by the nares, and part passing out through the tube. The tube was one with a small perforation on its convex side. The pulse became more rapid, and the patient sank exhausted on the eighth day after the operation. In another case of a girl, about three and a half years old, also a patient of Dr. Menzies, I was called to operate on the third day of the croupous attack; but the child had been ailing for some days before Dr. Menzies had been called, and the diphtheritic exudation was seen over the tonsils, uvula, and palate. At the time tracheotomy at once relieved the intense suffocative symptoms. The tube was finally removed on the tenth day. There was no recurrence of difficult breath- ing, and I was only seeing the patient occasionally, as, judging from past experience in croup cases, I thought her quite safe, and trusted that the quick pulse and febrile state would gradually pass off I happened to call on the eighteenth day after the operation, and found her sinking ; the eyes hollow and sunk, the wound showing total want of action, and looking larger than when the tube was removed. I was told that Dr. Menzies had ordered wine and suitable nourishment; and, on asking if she had taken it, the mother said, Yes; but a great part of it always