1076 REGIONAL SURGERY. On the I3th the patient was pretty well. Pulse 100. Some nausea from chloroform. Ordered a saline aperient mixture. 14^/t.—Free from sickness ; bowels have acted freely ; tongue clean ; skin cool. Pulse 90. 15th.—Continues doing well. Pulse 84. 16th.—Pulse 76. Most of the stitches removed. 17^A.—Incision along sterno-mastoid entirely united, as also the small incision at sternum. A good deal of healthy discharge from the trans- verse incision. Pulse 80. 20th.—Pulse 64. All ligatures except two have come away. Slight pressure with strapping to be applied over the corner of wound, near the ear, where pus has a tendency to lodge. Wound dressed with weak solution of tincture of iodine in water. From this time the patient's progress to recovery was uninterrupted. On 31st July the wound was healed tlirougliout, except the surface of the cicatrix ; he was able to be out of bed and walking through the ward with the head unsupported ; and he was dismissed from hospital on the 24th of August. The photograph showing the recently cicatrised wound left after removal of the tumour was taken on the 2d of August. (See Plate 48.) Examination of the Tumour. — The tumour, which presented an irregular nodulated surface, was of somewhat ovoid shape, broader below than above, and of a uniformly firm consistence. On making a longi- tudinal section, it presented much the appearance of the section of a gland mixed with fibrous texture ; and, on more minute examination, it had all the usual characters of the adenoid growth. About the centre of the section, two small portions had a dark bloody colour, and felt softer than the rest of the growth ; but, on careful examination, they were found to be essentially of the same structure as the rest of the tumour. Commentanj.—In my memoir of Mrs. Jepson's case, I adverted to the want of success whicli has hitherto attended operations for the removal of such deep-seated cervical tumours, as I could find no record at that time of any case in which a large tumour situated under the sterno-mastoid had been completely removed, with ultimate success; none, indeed, where complete removal had been effected. As it seemed to me that this want of success had led some surgeons to express strong opinions against operations for the removal of deep-seated cervical growths, I stated my opinion that the certainty of complete and safe removal of such tumours depended on the selection of proper cases for operation, by careful attention to the history of the case, and to the diagnosis of the character of the growth; for if the tumour was of slow growth and simple character, we could calculate on its comparative definition and circum-