FOREIGN BODIES IN LARYNX. 1013 The mucous membrane of the trachea and bronchi, on the other hand, is supplied by other branches from the vagus, which are given off lower down, and is not by any means so sensitive. The sensitive part of the mucous membrane begins at the lower surface of the epiglottis. This valve is so constructed that during deglutition its upper surface must come in contact with the food, often more or less stimulating in character, yet no irritation is produced by this in general. But let a single drop of water touch the lower surface of the epiglottis or mucous membrane of the glottis, and we have all the violent symptoms described above. This contrast in the sensibility of the two surfaces is explained by the difference in the nervous supply; for, whilst the upper part is supplied by branches from the glosso-pharyngeal, a nerve of the tongue, the lower surface derives its supply from the superior laryngeal, which, as already stated, is the proper sentient nerve of the larynx. The laryngeal nerve is endowed with extreme sensibility, and acts as a sentinel to protect the air-passages from the entrance of any foreign body. Lower down the mucous membrane be- comes much less irritable. If we pass a probe into the bronchi, it gives rise to some irritation, but not to the suffocating convul- sive cough which is produced by touching the larynx. This is due to the difference in the innervation of the two parts, and hence we see how a foreign body, getting into the air-passage, may at first irritate the peculiar mucous membrane of the larynx, producing spasm and suffocating paroxysms; and yet, presently, we may have a period of quiescence, owing to its having dropped from the larynx into the trachea or bronchus. The following cases will illustrate these principles :—■ I was called many years ago to see a girl who had, at the same time, swallowed a cherry-stone and a plum-stone. "Violent symptoms had occurred after swallowing them. A young medical man saw her at the time, and from his description I had no doubt that the stones had passed into the air-passages. When I arrived the girl was perfectly quiet, though breathing in a peculiar way, but the mother said she had always breathed