1117 INyURIES OF THE CHEST. plete if necessary, to allay the irritation and pain wliich are present. As a result of injuries of the chest, dangerous conditions may arise from embarrassment of the functions of respiration and cir- culation. Besides the acute inflammatory affections of the pleura and lung substance, the conditions which the surgeon is most frequently called on to treat are—Pneumothorax, Hsematothorax, Hydrothorax, and Empyema. As these conditions, though very different from each other pathologically, all act mechanically by compressing or displacing the thoracic viscera, they have certain symptoms in common which we shall first consider before speak- ing of these different conditions and their treatment. In all of them we have great oppression of the breathing, congestion of the face and neck at first, especially on the affected side, difficulty of lying on the sound side, weak and irregular pulse, and restlessness from threatened suffocation. These symptoms depend upon the pressure of the air or fluid within the pleura compressing the lung, and, as it accumulates, displacing to some extent the heart and great blood-vessels, interfering with the action of the dia- phragm, and gradually affecting the action of the opposite lung when the patient tries to lie on the sound side. The correct diag- nosis between the different pathological conditions is partly arrived at by physical examination, and partly by the history of the case and symptoms which may have preceded the formation of the col- lection. The distinction between pneumothorax and collections of denser fluids is easily enough made out by percussing the chest, the clear tympanitic sound leaves us in no doubt. But in regard to the other states mentioned, the effused fluid, of what- ever kind it is, leads to dulness on percussion and the absence of respiratory sounds on that side of the chest, so that we must take into account the period after the injury at which the symptoms arise, and the presence or absence of premonitory fever and rigors. When the symptoms arise immediately or shortly after the injury, they are due either to pneumothorax or haematothorax, and percussion will determine which of these is present. Hydrothorax or empyema again, are the secondary