RELATIONS OF THE RECTUM. 1251 nary lateral operation, if we begin our incision not further for- ward than an inch and a quarter, or an inch and a half in front of the anus, and close to the raph^ and take care to divide the base of the triangular ligament low down, and then to push the finger upwards, as I pointed out when describing the perineal dissection, so as to feel the staff immediately in front of the prostate, there is no risk of this vessel being wounded if it occupies its normal position. The terminal branches of the pudic have no relation to the incisions in lithotomy, if their dis- tribution be normal; and at present, in considering the avoidable risks, I do not enter on the abnormal sources of htemorrhage ; but, in regard to these, I would refer you to a paper I published on the sources of haemorrhage in lithotomy in the Edinburgh Medical Journal, March 1842, vol. i. Venous bleeding from the large prostatic veins in old men is a risk incident to all forms of perineal lithotomy ; but it is not of frequent occurrence. As regards wound of the rectum, I would merely observe, that it is not in our first incisions that the gut is in danger. For a short distance above the anus the rectum becomes somewhat contracted, and curves back from the bulb and urethra. The part of the operation at which there is most risk of woundiug the bowel is either in opening the membranous portion of the urethra, and carrying the knife onwards through the prostate, or in enlarging the wound in withdrawing the knife from the pro- static incision. At this deep part of the wound the rectum is distended into a large pouch ; and I confess that it is a wonder to me how the bowel escapes injury ; yet the accident is a very rare one—indeed I cannot recollect ever having seen it happen ; and what has also struck me as remarkable is, that though urine must constantly pass over the portion of the rectum where it is exposed in the upper part of the track of the incision, I never knew of a case in which ulceration in the gut occurred after lithotomy. The close proximity of the rectum to the prostatic incision, is well seen in the view of the track of the wound resulting from the lateral operation. Fig. 1, Plate Ivi.