1132 REGIONAL SURGERY. the part which was protruded, and also to prevent the action of the bowels for a time, for if they begin to act soon after the accident, the irritation produced may give rise to acute peritonitis. In some cases a small portion of gut may be protruded from the deep wound between the muscles or under the integu- ments, without appearing externally. If not noticed, this may become constricted. In such circumstances the symptoms of acute incarceration, or strangulation of the intestine, will super- vene as in hernia; and when there is much pain felt locally, and some fulness near the woimd, with vomiting, or tendency to vomiting, no time should be lost in enlarging the wound, to examine and return the gut or omentum if protruded. Peeitonitis is one of the most dangerous complications of wounds or operations in the abdominal region. The symptoms which indicate it are, great pain, of an acute, burning, and per- sistent (not spasmodic) character, extending gradually from the vicinity of the wound over the whole abdomen. This pain is greatly increased by pressure over the abdominal surface, or by stretching out the lower limbs. The patient generally lies with the limbs drawn up and the thighs flexed on the pelvis, to relieve tension. The features at first are flushed, and have an anxious expression; the skin is hot and dry, and the urinary secretion diminished. The pulse varies from 98 to 120 beats per minute, and has a hard wiry feel. The tongue is at first of white milky appearance, but soon becomes foul and loaded. As the disease proceeds, the belly becomes tense and tympanitic, and vomiting supervenes, at first of a bUious character, but subsequently of dark greenish watery fluid. When the disease progresses to a fatal termination, the vomiting, or the attempt to vomit, be- comes almost incessant. The features become sharp ; the pulse increases in frequency, but becomes weak and compressible, and the patient gradually sinks. The pathological conditions resulting from peritoneal inflam- mation are, increased serous effusion and exudation of plastic lymph. In the acute sthenic form of the disease, the soft plastic