1053 FOREIGN BODIES. be carefully examined, so as to make sure of the foreign body passing away. When sharp-edged or pointed bodies, as false teeth, with sharp or hooked metallic fixings, enter into the stomach, the treatment requires to be somewhat different. Purgatives would be dangerous. It is necessary to blunt or cover over the sharp edges, so that they may pass through the bowels safely. For that purpose I generally order the patient to eat freely of raw prunes or figs, without chewing them much, that a coating may envelop the sharp points or edges of the foreign body, so as to enable it to pass safely through the intestine. Bones, or portions of bone, often require to be forcibly pushed into the stomach, where, from their digestibility, they are not dangerous. Even the horn handle of a penknife has been found in the stomach nearly dissolved. Should portions of soft food stick in the gullet, they ought at once to be pushed into the stomach. In using the probang, or stomach tube, the finger should be passed down on the left side of the mouth, the tongue being neither pulled forwards nor pushed backwards, so that the parts be left as nearly as possible in their natural position. The head should then be thrown back, and the probang or tube passed almost vertically downwards over the finger. Wlien tlie foreign body is touched, it may be fairly pushed into the stomach. Poisonous substances which may have entered into the stomach, if soluble and non-corrosive, should immediately be with- drawn by the stomach-pump. The use of the instrument should, however, be always avoided in cases of corrosive poisoning, because, while there is little or no chance of doing good, the tube may pass through the softened gastric walls into the abdominal cavity. In some cases of poisoning by acid, we ought to pass the tube into the oesophagus, and thereby inject alkalies into the stomach. Earthy or alkaline carbonates are generally objectionable, from the effervescence and distension produced by the liberation of carbonic acid gas. The stomach-tube sometimes terminates in an open mouth ,