1324 REGIONAL SURGERY. two inches. He next feels for the groove in the narrow part of the staff with the point of his right forefinger, and having felt the groove distinctly, he takes the handle of the instrument in his left hand, and guarding the point of the bistoury on his right forefinger, inserts it with its edge directed forwards into the groove, and carries it forwards through the stricture into the grooved part of the thick shoulder of the staff so as to divide the stricture thoroughly, and depresses the handle of the staff gently till he feels its thick portion pass fairly into the mem- branous portion of the urethra. Lastly, he withdraws the staff and introduces the full-sized catheter into the bladder, and retains it by tying it in position. Such is a general description of the operation of perineal section. The points deserving attention are, first, the instruments. The staff consists of an anterior thick portion, which should be always about the gauge of a No. 11 catheter, and should terminate in an abrupt manner to mark the anterior boundary of the contrac- tion. The narrow portion of the staff varies in gauge from No. 3 down to the small probe-pointed instrument for very tight strictures. The groove should be carried well up from the narrow into the thick portion of the staff, so as to allow the knife to cut freely forward. The set consists of four of these steel instruments, and a small probe-pointed grooved silver director, used in cases of tight strictures in the anterior part of the urethra. The knife should be an ordinary small-sized bistoury in a fixed handle, very sharp at the point, with the back part of the point slightly bevelled off, by touching it on the stone in setting the instrument. The gum-elastic catheter is most suitable for leav- ing in the bladder; but in case of any difficulty in introducing the catheter owing to the point passing out of the wound in the urethra, the silver catheter should be at hand, as it can be guided with greater certainty. Secondly, as to the procedure, the staff should always be introduced fairly into the bladder, and entrusted to an assistant before the patient is placed in position for the operation. Immediately before commencing his incision, the surgeon should, by examining from the rectum, satisfy himself as to the staff being