1031 DIPHTHERITIC CROUP. came out by the wound in the neck, and by the nostrils ; but she had never mentioned this to Dr. Menzies or myself. I hastened to have the child fed by the stomach-tube, but she was moribund, and died before wine or food could be ad- ministered. As an instance of the deadly character of the blood-poison of diphtheria, independently of the mechanical obstruction to breathing, I may mention the following case :—I was sent for by Dr. Thin of Penicuik, to operate on a child residing near Eddleston. Dr. Thin told me that the symptoms preceding the laryngeal affection had been of a very low malignant character, but that the suffocative condition seemed now so bad as to demand tracheotomy to give a chance of relief We found the child semi-comatose, with weak, intermitting pulse, clammy skin, and livid countenance. I operated as speedily as possible, and thought the child would have succumbed. At first, no great relief seemed to be given to the breathing, but after waiting a little, and stimulating the trachea by passing a probe through the tube, coughing was induced, and some blood, mucus, and a shred of membrane, were ejected. The breathing then became easier. After having replaced the child in bed, applied warmth, and given necessary directions, we were about to leave, when we were sta,rtled by hearing the little patient, hitherto apparently unconscious, say, with wonderful distinctness, " Gude mornin'!" I now recollected that the tube I had used was one with an open- ing on the convex side, so that air would pass through the larynx. I thought the strength of voice a good omen of returning power, and that possibly the former almost moribund condition of the child had depended on non-aeration of the blood ; but on laying my finger on the pulse it was scarcely to be felt, the skin was as cold and clammy as before, and although the breathing had been relieved, the child died in about three hours after the operation. These may suffice as examples of the modes of death in diph- theria after tracheotomy. As a general rule, death in cases of simple croup occurs early in the second or third day after the operation. In diphtheria life may be prolonged for two or three