1080 REGIONAL SURGERY. commences at a later period of life; for, as a rale, a simple tumour, whilst it may adhere to, or compress, or push aside structures, has no tendency to destroy texture or separate parts contained in a common fibro-cellular sheath. In conclusion, I may state that neither in Mansou nor Mrs. Jepson was the division of the sterno-mastoid attended by any malposition, or even by any interference with the movements of the head ; nor was the section of the cervical portion of the spinal accessory nerve followed by any appreciable bad effect. Both these patients remain perfectly free from any return of the tumour. Thyroid Tumours. Hydrocele of the Thyroid Gland. Laryngo-Tracheotomy, F. 0.—This patient first came under Mr. Spence's care in January last, on account of a tumour of tlie thyroid gland, which sj)eedily yielded to blistering and the internal use of iodide of potassium. On July the 3d, lie again presented himself, and was then suffering from considerable em- barrassment of respiration, with occasional paroxysms of dyspnoea. Speaking, even for a short time, brought on violent fits of coughing, unac- companied by expectoration. On examination, a tumour was found occupying tlie position of the isthmus and left lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, pushing the trachea backwards and to the right side, and extending downwards apparently behind the sternum and left clavicle, as was indi- cated b}' dulness on percussion and absence of respiratory murmur over the upper sternal and inner part of the clavicular and subclavicular regions. The cliest was otlierwise normal ; the supei'ficial veins of the neck were much enlarged ; the left pupil was distinctly contracted. The treatment again pursued was blistering and the administration of tlie iodide of potassium, but on this occasion without any good effect, as the fits of dyspncEa became more frequent and more severe. On tlie morning of the 11th, a violent paroxysm suddenly coming on, I was hastily sum- moned, and, finding the patient's countenance turgid and livid, his respira- tion stopped, and his pulse scarcely perceptible, and believing that the immediate cause of his impending death was spasm of the glottis, at once determined to perform laryngo-tracheotomy. From the position of the larynx and trachea, the necessary incision, having to be made considerably to the right of the mesial line, laid bare the anterior margin of the sterno- mastoid muscle, and involved several enlarged veins. After the operation was finished, it was found necessary to inflate the lungs through tlie- tube and keep up artificial respiration. Tlie patient now rallied in some degree, but it was evident tliere was some obstruction below the opening made into the trachea. Accordingly the tube was withdrawn and the trachea