TREATMENT OF SPASMODIC STRICTURE. 1293 In a very large majority of cases, however, the symptoms of retention are not so urgent. The pain and the desire to pass water are very marked, but the real distension of the bladder is not great. In such cases, where we have to deal with inflamed and congested and irritable parts as causing the obstruction, the introduction of an instrument really keeps up the irritation. We should therefore, if possible, avoid using a catheter, and rather put the patient in a warm bath, and give an opiate enema. When the patient is in the bath, pour cold iced water on the penis, and the spasm will often pass off, and the urine come away without the necessity of passing a catheter. Then, by attention to the general health, giving some alkaline diluent drink, and putting the patient on antiphlogistic regimen, the tendency to the retention is overcome. These means should always be used first, for even if the retention still continues, and the use of a catheter becomes necessary, they render the intro- duction of the instrument easier. When these means fail to relieve the patient, and we require to use the catheter, we should give the patient chloroform, and apply cold or iced water to allay the irritability of the penis, which is engorged, congested, and consequently semi-erect, thus rendering catheterism difficult. In such cases there is not merely spasm, but also engorgement of the textures, and the catheter is very liable to cause bleed- ing, for the swollen mucous membrane is very apt to be lacerated, and the slightest abrasion in this state causes profuse bleeding from the urethra. We then take a No. 7 catheter with a rather short curve, dip it in warm water, oil it well, and pass it care- fully along the urethra as far as the bulb. If we meet with any obstruction, we should withdraw the point a little, draw the penis forward upon the instrument very gently, and it will then pass in ; but the condition of the prostate and neck of the dis- tended bladder will cause some obstruction at the vesical entrance, for the parts there are very much swollen, the neck of the blad- der is elongated, the axis of the membranous portion of the urethra is consequently altered, and we therefore require more than usually to depress the handle of the instrument to make