CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1085 As regards the extraction of a foreign body, if discovered' under similar circumstances, I should think it, to say the least, exceedingly difficult; for in a child at that age, the trachea and bronchi are so small, as to afford but little room for the use of forceps or other extracting instruments. I believe that the only chance in this case of extracting the foreign body would have been (had its situation been discovered) to have loosened the foreign body from its position in the orifice of the bronchial ramification, by means of the flat end of a long probe, so as to allow the air to pass into the portion of lung beyond it, when it w-ould probably have been expelled during expiration. For, of course, whilst it remained impacted in the bronchial ramification, it must have caused complete occlusion of that portion of lung to which that division of the left bronchus was distributed. Case II.—A fine little girl, four years of age, the daughter of a medical man in the country, was eating damson-jam, when one of the stones, which she had been sucking, suddenly slipped into the larynx. A violent par- oxysm of cough and dyspnoea, tlireatening suffocation, immediately ensued ; but the foreign body passing downwards, temporary relief was obtained. As similar paroxysms recurred, the father telegraphed to town for Professor Goodsir and myself to come out immediately. When we arrived, we found that she had had some severe paroxysms, and that the means used by her father, and Dr. Baird of Linlithgow, who had also seen her, had failed to cause ejection of the foreign body. Under these circumstances, and as the movement of the body in the trachea during respiration could be distinctly heard, we at once proposed tracheotomy, which indeed was the object of our being sent for, and there- fore there was no delay. The use of chloroform was tried at the request of the friends ; but it excited such a tendency to suffocation that it was given up, and I pro- ceeded to operate at once. Owing to the bulk of the thymus gland, the numerous dilated veins, and the presence of the middle thyroid artery, the operation required some care, but the parts were so distinctly seen that it was not prolonged. I made a long incision in the trachea, and inserted the points of my dissecting forceps at the upper part, expanding their blades to keep the orifice patent ; on doing this, and raising the head, a quantity of mucus was ejected ; then the plum-stone was seen to be forced towards the open- ing. But, unfortunately, at this moment inspiration took place, and the rush of entering air carried it back. We attempted to cause its expulsion by inducing coughing, and by shaking, and altering the position of the little patient, but in vain. On examining the chest, it at once became evident that the stone had become