1420 REGIONAL SURGERY. DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. Case of Intestinal Obstruction—Gastrotomy. Margaret Nicholson, set. 66, single, stocking-worker. Admitted into Bed 1, Ward XI. (medical), Royal Infirmary, March 22d, 1871. Jlistorxj of Present Illness.—About seven weeks ago patient got a mix- ture for her cough, which had the effect of causing constipation. Her bowels gradually became so torjjid that they were never moved above once a-week, and then only by the use of laxatives. A fortnight previous to her admission aperients failed to relieve the bowels, and the patient began to get sick and vomit. Three days ago her abdomen began to swell, and the vomiting became constant. Vomitings were not faecal. During this fortnight she has had constant desire to empty the bowel, biit nothing came away but a slimy mucus. The patient had previously suffered from prolapsus uteri, for which an operation was performed by Dr. Keiller. Before the swelling of abdomen commenced, patient says she had a bulging out of the abdomen about the size of her two fists, just below and to the left of tlie lunbilicus. Condition.—On admission, March 2 2d, patient has not an anxious expression nor a cachectic look. Abdomen is swollen, especially below umbilicus, and in both inguinal and lumbar regions of both sides, slightly more in right than in left. Tenderness in right hypochondrium. No hard lump or tumour can be felt. The whole of the swelling is tympanitic, only the note is impaired in a space 1^ inch square, just below and to the left of the umbilicus. Treatment.—Enema of castor-oil, etc., was tried, but without effect. March 23c?.—Abdomen as above. Examination per rectum discovered a rounded firm mass projecting into the canal 2^ inches from the anus. Canal not blocked up ; finger can be passed beyond the tumour. Nothing felt higher up the rectum. Per vaginam, same tumour felt, but relations to uterus not determined upon. Uterus seemed displaced. March '24th.—Abdomen more distended in ccecal region, forming a pro- jection about size of cocoa-nut, which becomes difl'used into general swell- ing. Still tympanitic note, especially clear in course of large intestine, except in left lumbar region, which is not so markedly distended. Friction can be felt and heard in upper part of right lumber region. Great tender- ness there. Injection of water tried, but only 10 oz. could be thrown up. Repeated several times, but brought nothing away. Rectal bougie could only be passed for 4| inches. When entered 2| inches, it met with an obstacle, but this was passed by inclining its point backwards. March ■'Hbth.—Abdomen more distended. Ccecal swelling continues. Course of transverse colon distinct. Descending colon not so marked, and tliere is an absence of swelling both anteriorly and posteriorly at the site of splenic flexure of colon. Sigmoid flexure swollen and tjanpanitic.