CGMPLICA TIONS. 1339 taught to use the catheter to draw off the contents of the bladder, so as to prevent the urine passing into the sinus ; but the irrita- tion produced by the catheterism is as bad as that induced by the dribbling of urine, besides, in such cases where there is no stricture, a part of the urine always passes by the sides of as well as through the catheter. In the cases in which I have tried catheterism, it has retarded rather than expedited the cure. In patients in whom, as a consequence of stricture, chronic abscess of the prostate gland has occurred in the form al- luded to when speaking of the morbid changes following bad strictures, the pus is often discharged by ulceration through the mucous membrane lining the prostatic portion of the nrethra, and consequently, when the patient makes water, part of the urine finds its way into the prostatic abscess, and leads to further suppuration, and fistulae opening in the perineum, through which foetid pus and urine find vent. For the cure of the contraction, dilatation or other treatment of the stricture is in such circum- stances indicated, but we can hardly expect it to cure the fistu- lous condition, depending as that does on the disorganised state of the prostate. I possess a specimen in my collection from a patient in whom a fistula in perineo existed for many years. The stric- ture was fully dilated and cured, but, though most of the urine passed by the natural passage, a small fistula remained open, which could never be healed. The preparation of the morbid parts shows the reason of its incurability to be the state of the prostate and prostatic portion of the urethra with which the sinus communicated. In the case of a young man recently under my care, who suffered from urinary fistula connected, not with stricture, but arising from a strumous abscess of the left side of the prostate, after having diagnosed the condition by ex- amination from the rectum, I divided the sinus by an incision resembling that for lithotomy, and laid the cavity in the left side of the prostate freely open. The incision contracted and healed, but a similar abscess formed on the right side of the prostate, and ulcerated into the rectum. Under treatment this also contracted, but never completely, and abscess of the testicle 4 s