GONORRHCEA VIRULENTA. 1345 the urethra by function and continuity of mucous surface, such as Cowper's glands, the prostate and testicle, may and generally do supervene ; and, as I have already stated, it is at this period that the secondary or constitutional symptoms often show them- selves. I shall now proceed to describe, as briefly as I possibly can, the symptoms of a case of gonorrhoea virulenta. A period of incubation, varying from three to eight or ten days, seems generally to intervene between the receipt of the infection and the manifestation of the symptoms of the disease. Most generally about the sixth or seventh day the patient feels an un- easy irritable or itching sensation about the orifice and anterior part of the urethra, and on looking at the parts he observes that the lips of the orifice are red and swollen. When he passes water, the stream scatters, and micturition is followed by increased irri- tability of the passage. The irritable sensation soon changes to that of pain of a sharp burning character, and then there is noticed a purulent discharge, at first small in quantity, but which soon becomes profuse. The inflammatory swelling of the orifice is increased, and there is often swelling of the prepuce from acute oedema. The pain on micturition is now so intense and burning in its character, that the patient dreads to relieve the bladder, and in some cases the agony is excessive. The constitution sympathises, and there is always more or less fever and disturbance of other functions, while in some patients the symptomatic fever runs very high. Little hard masses and in- flamed absorbents can often be felt along the penis, and the absorbent glands in the groin are swollen and painful. The burning pain and profuse purulent discharge continue unabated for eight or ten days, and then the pain begins to be less severe, and micturition is not attended or followed by such intense suffering. Gradually the discharge becomes thinner and less in quantity, and in some instances it may become suddenly arrested. A new train of symptoms now develop themselves : the swelling and irritation near the orifice of the urethra disappear,