STATE OF THE STRANGULATED BOWEL. 1167 above tlie constriction. If it be of the natural appearance of a pinkisb-grey colour, and smootb, and glistening ; even though the constriction has been tight, I generally augur well of the case, for this shows there is no general peritonitis, or if there is any, it is only in a very slight form ; but if the bowel be granular and vascular, and covered by a sort of glistening fluid on the surface, even though the part of the bowel below be not much congested, then I consider the prognosis of the case to be unfavourable ; the patient will probably die of intense peritonitis, for it is already existing before the operation. In some cases we find the condition of the bowel rather doubtful; and in small hernise this is very troublesome. We find a portion of the protruded gut dark, congested, and ecchymosed. I have even seen a portion of bowel quite black from ecchymosis caused by the taxis, and yet the patient recovered perfectly; but if the bowel be granular, and has lost its smooth appearance, or is soft like wet paper, the case is very doubtful; and then we generally find the constricted part deeply indented, and of a somewhat pale yellowish colour. If we see, moreover, that on the surface of the bowel there are points here and there of a greyish or white appearance, even though they are small, the risk is greater, for probably a slow form of gangrene is occurring, and this is showing itself by these points in the parts beyond the constriction. If the gangrenous or ash-coloured spots be minute and not numerous, there is a chance of the patient's recovering without opening the gut; but if we find the gut perfectly gangrenous, and of a dark colour, we must not return the bowel under any circumstances. In such circumstances we are told to cut off the portion of gangrenous bowel, and allow the faeces to be evacuated through the wound after the stricture has been divided. Such is the general practice, and so I used to do; but my own experience has altered my practice in this respect. Even when the bowel is distinctly gangrenous, I do not cut off the gangrenous por- tion of gut at once, for I have seen that in many cases in which this was done, the patient, instead of experiencing