1141 NATURE OF THE PROTRUSION. trusion from forcible laceration of the abdominal walls must be very rare, if it ever occurs. Hence the popular term, Euptu.re, so frequently used to designate this disease, is an improper one, and likely to mislead as to the true state of matters. I have said that the protrusion usually takes place through some natural opening or along some natural canal. It does so by slowly distending the apertures through which it passes. Or it may happen, that the natural structures passing through a canal, may, owing to disease, become increased in bulk, dilate the passage, and subsequently return to their natural size, or undergo atrophy. In consequence of these changes the calibre of the canal is relatively increased, and a hernial protrusion will be likely to occur. Thus I have known a case in which, after subacute orchitis and swelling of the spermatic cord, having existed for some time, these structures have become completely atrophied, and a hernial protrusion has taken place and become strangulated. The same tendency exists after the cure of cir- socele, where the inguinal canal has been dilated by the varicose veins of the cord. Again, in consequence of continued distension of the abdominal parietes, from any cause, the fibres of the aponeurotic portions become stretched and separated, or apertures for the transmission of blood-vessels may become dilated, and thus weak points are created, through which, under certain circum- stances, hemiae may occur. We have examples of these last-men- tioned conditions leading to hernia, after ascites, or in females after repeated pregnancies. In such cases the textures which have been temporarily distended become relaxed, and their fibres stretched; and under these circumstances ventral or umbilical hernia frequently occurs, without any rupture of the parietal structures. Having considered the manner in which hernia usually takes place, I next proceed to point out to you the nature or character of the protrusion. In general terms, a hernial protrusion may be said to consist of some portion of the hollow viscera of the abdomen, or of the floating omentum, or of both, invested by a protrusion of the parietal peritoneum, which is termed the hernial sac. The