EXCISION OF CLA VICLE. 1105 cases are attended with great danger, and must be carefully and quietly proceeded with ; and in the axilla, the loose connec- tions of the cellular tissue should be separated with the finger, and the knife used sparingly after the first incision, which should be very free, so as to divide the axillary fascia, and expose fully the surface of the growth. Smaller firm tumours under the pectoral muscles can be readily removed. Here, as in the case of deep cervical growths, no special rules can be given ; each case must be studied, and the anatomical knowledge and skill of the surgeon must guide him in planning and executing the operation. Excision of the Clavicle may be required for tumour or other diseased condition of the bone. If the tumour be malignant, or of doubtful character, the whole bone should be removed. In other cases, the external or internal half of the clavicle may be excised. Eemoval of the entire bone is perhaps the easier operation, for, by disarticulating it at its junction with the acromion, we obtain a longer lever to draw it away from the vessels, and by keeping the edge of the bistoury towards the bone, the vessels run less risk of injury. In a case in which I required to excise the internal half of the clavicle, the bone had given way about an inch and a half from its acromial extremity ; and from condensation of surrounding structures, I found it very difficult to get the bone drawn forwards, even with a pair of strong tooth forceps. In that case, the bone was very irregular on its deep surface ; and, on its removal, the motion of the subclavian artery could be seen, the vessels being only covered by a thin layer of cellular tissue. The disarticulation of the sterno-clavicular joint has been generally regarded as the greatest danger in the operation ; and no doubt the close proximity of the innominate vein and great arteries at the root of the neck, requires that the surgeon should proceed very warily at the moment of disarticulating. At the same time I scarcely think the risk is so great at this part of the operation as in cfearing the deep aspect of the clavicle, where it lies in