CONTENTS. in dealing witli them—Adenoid and Fibro-Cystic Parotid Tumours—Fattj' Tumours of the Submaxillary Region—Diagnosis and Treatment of the different Forms of Broncliocele—M. Porta's Views. Accidental and Suicidal Wounds in the Cervical Region : their Treatment Pages 999-1009 LECTURE cm. Injuries of the Larynx—Circumstances which regulate their Severity—Primary and Secondary Dangers—Foreign Bodies in Larynx—Variety and Intensity of accompanying S}Tnptoms, as regulated by character of Impacted Body— Sensibility of different parts of the Mucous Surface—Illustrative Cases—■ Tracheotomy—Special Hints regarding the Administration of Chloroform in the Operation—After-Treatment of Wound—Other Methods of causing the Ejection of Foreign Bodies—Accidents arising from the swallowing of Boil - ing or Acrid Fluids ...... 1010-1018 LECTUEE CIV. (Edema Glottidis : its Nature and Treatment—Croup and Acute Laryngitis : Similarity of their Symjjtoms—Pathological Changes in the different Stages of Croup — The Physical Manifestations which accompany them — Treat- ment, Medical and Surgical—Indications and Arguments for and against Tracheotomy—The Proper Time for performing it . . 1019-1027 LECTUEE CV. Diphtheritic Croup : its nature as compared with Simple Croup—Duration of Disease and modes of Death, illustrated by Examples — Complications arising from previous Disease and jJi'esent Contingencies—Indications for performing the Operation of Tracheotomy, and Cases best suited for it— Contra-indications—The stage of the Disease when it is most likely to he successful—Local and Constitutional After-treatment. . 1028-1036 LECTUEE CVL Chronic Laryngitis : Causes ; Symptoms ; Diagnosis ; Treatment—Warty Disease of the Larynx—Secondary and Anomalous Affections causing Laryngeal Symptoms, as Tumours of the Thyroid, and Thoracic Aneurism—Symptoms common to both conditions—Value of the Laryngoscope as an aid to Dia- gnosis : Directions for using it—Operations of Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy in the Child and Adult: After-treatment . . . 1037-1048 LECTUEE CVIL - Injuries of the Pharynx arising from the Lodgment and Impaction of Foreign Bodies : Modes of detecting and extracting them by Manual and Instru-