1119 PNE UMO THORAX. escape of air when the lung again distends on inspiration. The operation of extracting the confined air is effected by puncturing the thorax at the usual point of election, using for this purpose either Bowditch's apparatus or a trocar and canula, with a stop- cock connected with an india-rubber bag, so as to obviate any air entering from without. As the air is drawn off, the patient is desired gradually to distend the lungs, and when all the air has been extracted, the assistant is ready with a piece of oiled lint to place over the aperture as the surgeon withdraws the canula, then a fold of lint is placed over the part, and supported by a broad flannel bandage. I have already, when speaking of em- physema resulting from fractured ribs, stated what I consider the safest method of procedure for both relieving the emphysema and any pneumothorax which may be present in such cases. Oppression of the lung, arising from effusion of blood into the cavity of the pleura, is termed H^matothorax ; it generally arises as a primary condition, either from a wound of the inter- costal vessels or from a wound of the lung-substance. If we suspect that the bleeding is entirely due to a wound of some of the intercostal vessels, then the best treatment is to dilate the wound with a probe-pointed bistoury, feel for the bleeding point, and try to arrest it by tying the vessel. This is not easily done, even when the bleeding point can be felt. Where we cannot get the thread round the vessel, it has been proposed we should intro- duce a dossil of lint within the cavity of the chest; and, by means of a thread fastened to it, draw it outwards towards the ribs, so as to fix the lint against the wounded point and keep up the pressure, but this just acts as a foreign body and is apt to lead to serious irritation, and may even cause pleuritis and suppuration in the cavity of the chest. In most cases, by pass- ing an aneurism-needle so as to include the vessel on either side of the bleeding point, we can secure it by small silk ligatures. The Treatment of heematothorax, arising from wound of the lung, has been already mentioned; any blood which has escaped should be removed by an exhausting syringe from the cavity of