REGIONAL SURGERY. 1364 cases may require, I repeat, that in the great majority of cases of cirsocele, all tliat is generally required or warrantable is, to use means to allay all sources of excitement and any irritation in the urethra, to use cold bathing to the genital organs morning and evening, and to support the scrotum by a well-made suspen- sory bandage. The Testicle is frequently the subject of tumour-growth, both of the simple and malignant forms. Unfortunately the latter are the most common. The simple growths affecting the testis are—simple sarcoma, filrous and fihro-cystic tumours. The malignant are generally of the medullary form, either ordinary cerebriform or vasctdar medullary sarcoma, fungus hcematodcs. Scirrhus, so common in the female breast, is exceedingly rare in the testicle. These diseased conditions of the testicle are distinguished by the same general vital manifestations and local appearances which I described when speaking of tumour growth ; and by attending to these we are able to diagnose the nature of each case, and to adopt the appropriate treatment. To describe each different form of tumour of the testicle would be to repeat what has already been discussed in the earlier part of the course. In all true tumours of the testicle, whether simple or malignant, removal of the tumour by castration is necessitated. In the case of malignant growths we must make sure that the cord is healthy, at a point where we can divide it, and that the inguinal glands are not affected by the disease. If there be nothing to contra-indicate the operation, Cas- TKATlON is performed as follows :—The groin and scrotum having been previously shaved, the operator grasps and slightly raises the diseased testicle with his left hand, and renders tense its scrotal coverings. He then commences his inci- sion through the integuments over the cord, a little above the external abdominal ring, and carries it down to the upper part of the tumour, where he makes it diverge first to