REGIONAL SURGERY. 1146 laying the patient in the recumbent posture, the protruded parts generally return spontaneously into the abdomen, or the slightest pressure effects their reduction. Itj after reduction of the swell- ing, the finger be passed upwards, the aperture through which the protrusion had descended will be felt; and if the finger be kept there, and the patient desired to resume the erect position, though impulse will be felt against the finger, the protrusion will be retained. On removing the finger, it will again descend. If the protrusion is composed of intestine, the return of the gut is attended with a peculiar gurgKng sound. When the protrusion is omental, the swelling is not elastic, as in the case of intes- tine ; it has a doughy feeling, the impulse or coughing is less distinct, percussion over the swelling is dull, and the reduction of the mass is not so readily accomplished as in the case of protruded intestine—the last portion requiring the same amount of manipulation to return it as the mass, and there is no gurgling sound as in the case of the intestinal protrusion. The clearness or dulness on percussion cannot be altogether trusted to, for in many cases of hernia the intestines are dis- tended with faeces, solid or fluid, with little or no gaseous con- tents, and then percussion gives a dull sound. The general symptoms present in a reducible hernia are not very marked. In some instances, when the protrusion first comes down, the patient feels sick, has griping pains in the abdomen and in the swelling. In cases of large omental pro- trusion there is usually a peculiar dragging sensation at the stomach, accompanied with nausea, and even slight vomiting, although there may be no constriction. In many cases of reducible hernia the patients feel so little uneasiness or pain that they too often overlook or under-estimate the serious cha- racter of the swelling, and satisfy themselves with returning it when uneasy, without even consulting a medical practitioner, or wearing a truss. We now proceed to consider the caixses which lead to the protrusion. These are divided into predisposing and exciting. The predisposition to hernia consists in any defect, either