1068 REGIONAL SURGERY. cidentally mentioned by Mr. Liston in his Practical Surgery. Of the three first-mentioned only, are the details given, and in none of them was the whole tumour removed. Mr. Bell, who describes the operation in his usual graphic style, confesses that he left some small roots of the tumour attached to the transverse processes of the vertebrae for fear of injuring the phrenic nerve. The tumour rapidly recurred, and destroyed the patient. In one of Mr. Warren's cases, only portions of the growth could be re- moved, as it involved all the textures intimately ; and, after ligature of both the carotid artery and internal jugular vein, a large mass was left, being connected with and projecting into the pharynx. In his second case. Professor Warren, after clear- ing the surface of the tumour, rather than divide the sterno- mastoid for fear of injuring the spinal accessory, "the conse- quences of which last I was unacquainted with," adopted the alternative of cleaving the mass perpendicularly in its long axis, so as to remove the two halves from under the muscle ; and here, again, he tied and divided both the carotid and internal jugular ; but some parts of the tumour in front of the vertebrae were left, the actual cautery being applied to them. The details of the case subsequent to the operation are meagre; very grave symptoms appear to have followed immediately, but the patient seems to have rallied; and, though we are led to infer that he did recover, nothing is said of the ultimate result, or whether the tumour was reproduced or not. The only notice of Mr. Liston's case I can find, is contained in Practical Surgery, chap, v., "On the Injuries and Diseases of Muscles and Tendons." He says :—" I had occasion to remove the sterno-mastoid muscle of one side, involved in a sarcomatous tumour, from its origin to its insertion—a growth to whicli the most fastidious critic will not refuse the term sarcoma ; though, in all probability, the muscular fibres may have been involved secondarily. The tumour was, so far, limited by a cellular sheath, yet the dissection was difficult and extensive. The patient made a good recovery, and no mal- position of the head followed." * * Since writing the above, I liave found in one of the Journals of the R03 al