LATERAL OPERATION IN CHILDREN. 1261 deep perineum. In ordinary cases the method formerly described answers well enough. In performing the lateral operation on young children, it is important to keep in mind that the bladder lies high up, and that, from the small size of the staff, great care is requisite to open into the groove, and still greater care in carrying the knife onwards into the bladder. The sensation of the knife grating along the groove should never be lost for an instant till the bladder is opened. Another rule specially to be attended to is, that when the staff is introduced into the bladder, and the stone touched by it, it should be held in contact with the stone from first to last, and the surgeon should never desire the staff to be withdrawn till he feels the stone distinctly with his finger. If these directions were attended to, the accidents of which we some- times hear, of lithotomy being performed and abandoned after efforts at extraction, and of the bladder after death being found unopened by the incisions, could not occur. The real causes of such misfortunes seem to me to be, either that the point of the staff has slipped from the bladder, and so misguided the knife, or that the knife has slipped from the groove in taking the curve, and thus when the operator passes up his finger, the loose cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum is broken up with the finger, and he mistakes it for the cavity of the bladder, and feeling the stone perhaps through the thin coats of the bladder above, he makes futile attempts at extraction. I repeat, the forceps should never be used till the surgeon feels the stone distinctly with his finger. In extracting the stone, either in the adult or child_, it occasionally, though rarely, happens that it slips from the forceps after having passed the opening in the prostate. In such cir- cumstances the operator should insert his finger into the rectum, so as to fix the stone from behind, and prevent its slipping back, and then with the curved lever end of the scoop draw or tilt it out of the wound. It occasionally happens that a patient who has been the subject of lithotomy is again affected with calculus, and requires to be again operated on. In such circumstances it has been