1206 REGIONAL SURGERY. divided, and we next empty the sac of its contents and reduce them. But if we cannot do this, we must open the sac and divide the constriction from within. In small femoral hernise we must do this very cautiously, for there is often no fluid in the sac, and recent adhesions may even have taken place between the bowel and the sac. We should introduce the finger, and feel whether there be adhesions. In dividing the stricture in femoral hernia, the surgeon passes his finger or the flat director in front of the bowel, and somewhat to its inner side, and with a bistoury introduced flat on the finger he insinuates its point through and beyond the constricting edge, then turning the edge of the knife upwards and inwards, he divides the falciform edge and the deep crescentic margin, or Gimbernat's ligament. When the deep crescentic margin is divided we at once relieve the falci- form edge and the constriction, and the bowel can then be reduced. The case is treated afterwards like any ordinary case of hernia. We should not carry the knife directly upwards, but obliquely upwards and inwards, so as to divide the crescentic margin where it forms the upper and inner part of the ring. By doing so we avoid aU risk of injury to the vein or to the epigastric artery, or the spermatic cord in the male. As regards the dangers of the operation, there are hardly any incidental to the operation itself if it be properly and carefully performed; we simply divide the skin and fasciae, and sometimes also the sac. The only vessels which require to be divided are the branches of the inguino-pudic artery. They are generally cut in the first incision, and should be secured at once as divided. The obturator artery sometimes courses close round the inner side of the neck of the sac in femoral hernia, and under such circumstances it has been wounded in dividing the constriction. This occurs when the obturator arises, in common with the deep epigastric, by a long common trunk, which, after ascending on the parietes, sends off the obturator, which in passing to its destination, lies so as to be in the rela- tion above mentioned. In the cases where the obturator comes off from the external iHac artery, it lies beneath a hernia passing