CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1083 again saw liim with me ; tlie tiibe was withdrawn, hut the difficult respi- ration again returned when the oi^ening was closed ; whilst, on the con- trary, the breathing was free, and perfectly easy when it was left open. We again carefully examined the larynx and bronchi, but in vain. We could not detect any foreign body ; and we concluded that it had jjrobably been pushed up by the probe, passed into the pharynx, and swallowed, and that the difficulty in breathing might be owing to swelling of the mucous mem- brane lining the larynx. The tube was once more replaced, and the same treatment adopted as before ; a gentle laxative was prescribed, and I desired the stools to be carefully examined. I again saw him at 3 p.m., when I found his breathing was hurried, together with a cousiderable degree of general fever ; the face was flushed, and the pi;lse rather quick and hard ; I therefore ordered some leeches to be applied over the region of the chest, the laxative medicine to be repeated, and an injectipn to be given in case it did not soon operate. I again saw him at 8 P.ii.; he now seemed considerably easier, there ■was less fever and restlessness, and the breathing was less hurried ; the bowels had been freely opened, and the leeches had bled well. At 10 o'clock I was informed he was rather worse ; and, on visiting .hini, I found him very restless, his breathing had become huiTied, and he was thirsty and hot. Having cleaned the tube, it relieved his breathing ; and I left him, and sent a person to remain with him during the night, with strict instructions to call me if he became worse. At half-past 11 o'clock I was again sent for, as the child had become suddenly much worse. I now found him fast sinking. I introduced a clean tube, and ordered him some wine and water, under which he rallied in a measure ; but it was only for a short period, as about midnight he expired. Having obtained permission from the friends to examine the body, I did so on the morning of the 26th September, and the following were the appearances found on dissection :— Post-mortem Examination of the Body.—I carefully examined the larynx and trachea, but could find no foreign body. There was a slight degree of vascularity of the mucous membrane of the larynx, together with some thick mucus in its cavity, but there was very little swelling of the parts. I laid open the right bronchial tube, which presented nearly its natural appearance, with but slight degree of vascularity of its mucous coating, but there was no foreign body in it. The right lung, with the exception of a little congestion at its posterior part, was of a healthy appearance, and cre- pitated naturally on being pressed between the fingers. The left bronchus was next examined ; and as I saw no foreign body, I was aboiit to give up all further investigation of the thoracic viscera, concluding that it had been pushed upwards during our examination of the larynx, as I previously con- jectured, and that it passed into the stomach, when my attention was arrested by the peculiarly dark appearance of the lower portion of the upper lobe of the left lung ; and on cutting into this portion, I found the foreign body, a small damson-stone, impacted into one of the large sub- divisions of the left bronchus, the larger end of the stone projecting up- wards. No other parts were therefore examined. 4 B