1388 REGIONAL SURGERY. projected bowel must be carefully effected. To place a ligature around the whole protrusion, would be to tie in and obstruct the lower end of the intestine. The other form of prolapsus ani consists merely of the swollen mucous membrane of the lower part of the gut pro- truded through the relaxed sphincter, as represented in Plate li. Fig. 4, and sometimes in even a large mass. It is really a htemorrhoidal affection, totally different in its character from true prolapsus recti. There is no invagination, and the con- gested projections of the mucous membrane should be dealt with by ligature, as in any other form of internal haemorrhoids. The removal of loose folds of the anal integument should subsequently be had recourse to. Another diseased condition of the mucous membrane of the bowel, which is apt to be mistaken for hagmorrhoids, is Polypus OF THE Eectum. The polypus consists of a pyriform peduncu- lated vascular mass springing from the miacous lining, and occu- pying more or less of the cavity of the bowel, whence it is generally ejected with every feecal evacuation. Its delicate structure is very ill adapted for such tear and wear, hence it often gives way, and this sometimes gives rise to considerable haemorrhage. Independently of this contingency, such polypi are in themselves sufficiently troublesome, being sensitive in themselves, and sources of great irritation and severe lumbar pains and discomfort to the patient. They should be tied at the neck with a fine silk thread, and removed by scissors. Ulcers of the Eectum are not uncommon, and their pre- sence is not only difiicult of detection, but is often accompanied by most distressing and debilitating effects. The frequent pas- sive haemorrhage to which they give rise leads to great anaemia, palpitation of the heart, general emaciation and debility, whilst the comparative absence of local uneasiness may prevent us from suspecting the cause. Sometimes the haemorrhage is active; and, on the part being protruded, or on using the speculum a small artery is found bleeding per saltum from the ulcerated surface.