REGIONAL SURGERY. 1034 submaxillary swelling, are very unfavourable. I have, however, seen cases recover, where tracheotomy was performed in diph- theritic croup supervening on these circumstances; so that I think we may perform the operation, though we should not urge it too much. I would not like to exclude even such cases from the benefit of the temporary relief and the chance of life which tracheotomy affords ; still it is evident that the chance is very much less than in cases of uncomplicated croup, and that the results must tend unduly to reduce the average success of the operation. In cases in which the disease has crept slowly on before the croupous symptoms began, and in which difficulty of swallowing exists, that complication seems to me a contra-indication of operation, as we can then scarcely hope to keep up the nutrition of the patient. But we must look to the exact significance of this symptom in diphtheria. In cases of acute and chronic laryngitis, as well as in croup, difficult deglutition is often a very marked symptom ; but, so far from being a contra-indication to tracheotomy, it is an indication for its performance, because in such cases the difficulty arises from the action of the parts in swallowing, exciting the laryngeal spasm. In these cases it excites cough and other symptoms of laryngeal irritation ; but the dysphagia of diphtheria results from paralysis of the palate, pharynx, and neighbouring parts. There are no convulsive efforts excited to expel the food—it simply runs back, partly from the mouth, partly by regurgitation through the posterior nares ; and, as we see in cases in which it comes on subsequently to the operation, part of it may pass through the larynx into the trachea. Hence I consider the presence of this condition in diphtheria most unfavourable, both as an indication of the intensity of the poison, and also and specially as presenting a difficulty to our afterwards nourishing the patient. When it comes on after the operation, we must do our best to meet it by the use of the stomach-tube ; but I can only say that such treat- ment has rarely proved successful in my own cases. Lastly, in regard to early operation as promising greater