1398 REGIONAL SURGERY. taken to prevent feculent matter escaping amongst the tissues ; with this object the surgeon should guard the parts as in ovariotomy, and introduce a wide india-rubber tube into the opening, and so allow the accumulated contents to escape gradually. He afterwards draws the opening in the bowel outwards, and stitches the mucous membrane to the integu- ments by continued suture, places a piece of oiled lint round the opening, and inclines the patient towards that side to favour the escape of the faeces. An opiate suppository should be placed in the rectum; great attention paid to cleanliness, and the diet should be principally milk and farinaceous food for some days. A similar procedure will enable you to open the caput ccecum on the right side. In proper cases, as in obstruction of the bowels from stricture of the rectum, or in cases of obstructed bowel, where the course of the colon can be traced distended with faeces, there can be no question as to the propriety of perform- ing Amussat's operation. But in cases where the colon is not distended, or only distended by gaseous contents, as evi- denced by percussion, and that distension only arising at a late period of the symptoms, then the probability is, that there is obstruction in the small intestine, and we must decide as" to performing the more questionable operation of gastrotomy. The difficulties which may arise, both as to diagnosis and operative procedure, may be judged of by a case which occurred to me whilst writing these pages, and which will be found in the Clinical Cases, page 1420. We have hitherto been considering the diseases to which the normal rectum is liable; but I must now treat of an ab- normal condition of it, in which the external opening, and sometimes the lower part of the rectum, are absent. This defi- ciency is termed Imperforate Anus. It is of course a conge- nital malformation. It is generally noticed at once by the medical attendant or nurse, but in some cases, where the rudi- mentary indentation of the anal orifice is deeply marked, it may