1241 HIGH OPERA TION FOR STONE. catheter should be passed along the -urethra, and the bladder projected before it, so as to form a guide to its position; but this is never a safe method. The bladder having been felt distended above the pubis, the High Operation is performed as follows. The surgeon makes an incision about two and a half or three inches long in the mesial line of the abdomen at its lowest part, immediately above, or even partly over the pubis. This first incision divides the skin and fat, and exposes the lowest part of the linea alba., which is next divided between the pyramidal muscles. The edges of these muscles and of the wound should be gently held, not dragged, aside by copper spatulee. The knife should now, if at all, be very sparingly used. With his finger the operator separates the loose connective tissue, and recognises the anterior surface of the bladder, and, if possible, ascertains the position of the reflected peritoneum. He then feels for the distended bladder, and pushes his knife into it about an inch and a half above the pubis, with the edge directed downwards, and cuts towards the pubis, then hooking his finger in the opening so made, he draws forward the bladder, and, guarding the peritoneum, enlarges the opening. There is no necessity, however, for making a very long cut through the coats of the bladder, for the divided muscular coat readily yields, so as to allow the easy extraction of a very large calculus. The introduction of forceps and the extraction of the stone are not attended with any of the difficulties which are occasionally met with in perineal lithotomy. The operation is unattended by any risk of hgemorrhage, and, as regards its manual procedure, is very simple ; but un- less the precautions I have described be attended to, the sac of the peritoneum may be opened, and the intestines escape; and when I mention that this accident actually happened in the hands of so dexterous a surgeon as Baron Dupuytren, you will see the necessity for care. The after-treatment is to be conducted on the principles already laid down when speaking of the dangers of this method, and the means of diminishing or obviating them.