REGIONAL SURGERY. 1002 which I published some years ago; and, as both were examples of the largest deep-seated and complicated forms of tumour, they may serve to indicate the chief points to be considered by the surgeon in such cases.- -(See Clinical Cases.) Some surgical authorities have laid it down as a practical rule, that it is not warrantable to attempt removal of such growths Avhen they are placed under the sterno-mastoid, as we cannot be sure of removing them entire ; and that, besides the great risks of the operation, there is the risk of rapid reproduction. I think the results of the cases I have alluded to are the best warrant for operative interference in proper cases. The danger lies in attempting removal in unsuitable cases. Eemoval of simple tumours from the parotid region has been so frequently performed, that I need hardly say more in reference to them than to remind you of the close relations of the portio dura nerve and the external carotid artery to such growths. In some instances the tumour is so placed as to be super- ficial to the parotid gland, and then we can, by careful dissection, turn it out of its nest of condensed cellular tissue, without injuring the nerves. But in many cases the growth is developed from below, and compresses and partly adheres to the parotid, so that it is impossible to spare all the branches of the nerve. Indeed, in sonie instances, partial paralysis of the face is present, owing to compression of the portio dura by the growth. In a case of this kind which I operated upon last winter, the paralysis disappeared after removal of the tumour. Parotid tumours are usually fibro-cystic or adenoid, with cysts ; and when the cystic element predominates,- or the cysts are large, great care must be taken to avoid them in dissecting out the growth. Fatty tumours sometimes attain an enormous size in the submaxillary region. They are quite superficial, loosely con- nected, and can be removed with great ease and safety, even when of the size represented in the accompanying sketch (Fig. 29). The tumours of natural structures met with in the neck are chiefly those of the Thyi'oid Body, constituting the different forms of Bronchocele. This disease may exist as a simple