1323 PERINEAL SECTION. of complicated stricture, attended with no great difficulty in its performance, not dangerous in itself, and attended with probably as little risk as any cutting operation can be in cases of diseased urinary organs. Since I began to use Holt's method, I liave not performed perineal section so generally as I formerly did, but for nearly twelve years, whilst I used dilatation in ordinary cases of stricture in private practice and in hospital out-patients, I per- formed perineal section almost invariably in all resilient, irri- table, or old indurated strictures ; and in the Edinburgh Eoyal Infirmary these were of frequent occurrence, and the results were most satisfactory. In the very few fatal cases which I have met with, the cause of death was almost invariably phle- bitic pyaemia. I have never met with haemorrhage or urinary infiltration, the bugbears which used to be urged against this method; and, therefore, though I now use Holt's plan in many cases where I should formerly have performed perineal section, yet in cases of cartilaginous irritable resilient stricture, with induration of the perineal textures, or perineal fistula, I prefer perineal section by Mr. Syme's method to any other plan of treatment, and still frequently perform it. I have said that the operation is not difficult, and that its performance is effected with certainty if the principles laid down by Mr. Syme be attended to, together with some minute points in the manipulations, the neglect of which makes all the difference between a perfect and an imperfect operation. I shall first briefly describe the mode of performing the operation, and then allude to the points which I consider as deserving special attention. The instruments required are a grooved stricture-staff, a small sharp-pointed bistoury, and a No. 10 silver or gum catheter. The perineum having been shaved, and the narrow part of the staff passed through the stricture fairly into the bladder, the patient is placed in the same position as for lithotomy, and the hips brought close to the edge of the table. The operator feels for the termination of the thick shoulder of the staff in the perineum, begins his incision over it exactly in the line of the raphe, and cuts backwards for about 4 R