EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. xxiv Figs. 6 and 7 are portions of cranial bones removed by the trephine to ex- hibit the varying tliickness of the cranium in different indi- viduals and in different parts of the same skull. Fig. 8. Necrosed bone thrown off from the circular opening made with the trepan. Fig. 9. The instrument termed the trephine. Fig. 10. The trepan. TUMOURS OF THE UPPER JAW.—Plate XLV.—Page 980. Fig. 1. Malignant fibro-plastic tumour of the upper jaw, implicating the textures of the cheek. The npper jaw of the right side and a portion of palatine plate of the left side, together with soft textures of the cheek, were removed by operation. A flap was dissected from the neck to fill up the gap, as shown in Fig. 2. The wound healed well, and the patient was dismissed in good health, with wonderfully little deformity of the face. But a similar growth, I understand, appeared in the left antrum about a year afterwards, in consequence of which she died. (Sketched from nature by Dr. Caton. See Clinical Cases.) Fig. 5. Very large firm fibroid tumour of the upper jaw. The tumour, as shown in the sketch, projected very largely into the mouth. The whole jaw was removed, and the patient made an excellent recovery. The result is shown in Fig. 2, Plate XLVI. From original sketch by Dr. John Smith. EXCISIONS OF THE JAWS.—Plate XLVI.—Page 984. Fig. 1. Sketch of Elizabeth Fitzpatrick, in whom both sides of the jaw were removed, leaving only the symphysis. See Clinical Case, page 1059. Fig. 2. From a jjhotograph showing the result in the case represented in Plate XLV., Fig. 3. The contraction of the features and the deep shadows caused by the light during the photographic process give an unfavourable view of the actual result. Fig. 3. From a photograph. Result in the case of Mrs. H , in whom one-half of the lower jaw was removed by disarticulation and resection. In this case also the shadows might mislead as to the extent of the incision, as a deep line extends completely under the chin. The incision terminates considerably to the right of the chin. In other respects the sketch gives a good idea of the result. TUMOURS OF THE NECK.—Plate XLVIL—Page 1002. Fig. 1. A tumour situated in the superior anterior angle of the neck, pressing aside the stemo-mastoid. The tumour really occupied a very deep position, being an outgrowth from the thyroid body. This is one of the cases referred to at page 1004.