1297 MEASUREMENTS OF THE URETHRA. branous portion at its entrance into the anterior layer of triangular ligament . . . . . . .6 inches 4 lines ]\Ieiubranous portion.—From its entrance at the an- terior to its exit at the posterior layer of the triangular ligament, half an inch, or . . 0 „ 6 „ Prostatic portion . . . . . . . 1 „ 1^ „ Total length . . 7 \\\ Measurement of the walls, membranous portion between layers of .. A Upper wall .... 5 lines, triangular ligament \ ^ • , ,, ( Lower wall, ^ inch, or . . 4J „ II. Measurements of urethra ; penis previously injected with wax, so as to represent the erect condition. Total length of urethra, from meatus externus to anterior border of uvula vesicae, 9^ inches. Spongy portion to orifice at anterior laj'er of triangular ligament, 7| ins. Membranous portion . . . . . . . Prostatic portion . . . . • . . . 1^ „ Total . . . 91 „ The exact measurements of the width of the urethra are very difficult to obtain ; our results can be but approximative. The best plan is the old one, of taking casts by filling the bladder and urethra with wax or fusible metal, and so obtaining the width of the canal at different points when dilated by a moder- ate and equal fluid pressure. Finally, as regards these anatomical hints, I would merely remind you that besides voluntary muscles related to the urethra at different parts of its course, modern investigations have shown that the mucous membrane is closely connected by its sub-mucous tissue with involuntary muscular fibre in every part of its course, not existing, however, in equal quantity throughout, and at some points interlacing with portions of the yellow elastic tissue. In regard to the general course of the urethra,—if we look at the canal when the penis is pendulous, we see it has a double curve like the letter S, but the anterior curve is effaced when we stretch the organ, as in introducing a catheter, and then there only remains a very gentle curve from the bulb backwards and upwards through the membranous and prostatic portions of