REGIONAL SURGERY. 1008 should be cleaned of clots and mucus, so as to obtain a view of the parts. The arteries, however small, if wounded, should be liga- tured, and the bleeding veins secured either by ligature or com- pression. The common custom of sewing the wound is most reprehensible. The deep-seated textures cannot be expected to heal by the first intention, from the necessary movements of the parts. Mucus and blood and air get into the deeper-seated parts of the wound when it is sewn up, and lead to emphysema and unhealthy action. Purulent matter infiltrates and distends the tissues, so that the patient speedily dies from suffocation. Even when the wound does not pass so deeply, it should not be stitched, as blood or pxis is certain to accumulate and complicate recovery. In all cases, therefore, while we may sew the angles, the centre of the wound should be left open. We must, however, take means to prevent the edges of the skin becoming inverted during the healing process. The patient's mental and physical condition materially influences the progress of cure, and often complicates the treatment of the case, and the patient often dies, even when the wound is all but healed. Should the pharynx or oesophagus be wounded, it is necessary to nourish the patient by a tube passed through the nostrils. The instrument, however, should be passed as seldom as possible, because in the wounded state of the pharynx its introduction is difficult, while there is a danger, during the struggles of the patient, of its passing into the posterior mediastinum. When it is impossible to pass the instrument by the nostril, the patient must be fed by passing the tube by the mouth or by the wound itself. The latter, if possible, must be avoided, as it keeps the wound open and causes great irritation. Suicidal wounds, leading to inflammation and oedema glot- tidis, often require, tracheotomy. The operation is peculiarly difficult, as the larynx is dragged downwards to the sternum, while, by stretching the head and neck backwards we gain no advantage, we only make the wound gape more widely. The upper part of the larynx should therefore be fixed with a sharp hook, and drawn upwards and forwards, as nearly as