COMPLICATED CASES. 1175 and the surgeon proceeds on that ground. In the class of cases I am now speaking of, this element, so important to correct diagnosis, is wanting. The protrusion has in these cases been irreducible probably for years, owing to adhesions, or some other cause ; and whilst the symptoms present may depend on strangu- lation from fresh accession to the protrusion, or from congestion and engorgement of the old protrusion, they may also depend upon mere irritation of the intestine or omentum contained in irreducible hernia, for the protruded parts are quite as liable as other portions of the viscera to be affected by various sources of irritation. The tumour is more tense than usual, tender to the touch, and there may be vomiting and constipation, and yet the hernia may not be strangulated ; and having been long irre- ducible and fixed there, you cannot hope to reduce it now. I recollect many years ago being called to see an elderly woman, a servant, who was labouring under very urgent symp- toms—vomiting, tension of the swelling (an old irreducible femoral hernia), and tenderness of the abdomen. Enemata and other means had been used before I saw her, and medicine given by the mouth, but without affecting the bowels. I tried gentle pressure to the swelling, after having applied ice for some time, in hopes that I might reduce any new descent which might have occurred, but without effect. I then advised her to submit to the operation, but she refused, and stated as her reason that she had formerly had a similar attack, and that Mr. Liston had insisted on operating, but she had refused, and got better. I ordered her an opiate to relieve the pain and vomiting, but told her friends to send for me if the symptoms continued, and left her with fore- bodings of a bad result. Next day, when I went to see her, I found her almost quite well, and then I was informed that there had been a party in her master's house, and that she had tasted a variety of articles, and so set up the irritation in the hernia. Still I consider I would have been fully warranted in operating under the circumstances in which I first saw her. In several very similar cases which I have met with, I have had to operate, and in all of them there was tight strangulation, so that, had I