1301 BRIDLE AND RESILIENT STRICTURES. Bell as one kind of bridle-stricture, but I think the term valvular expresses its appearance better. The true bridle-stric- ture is of very rare occurrence, and consists of a thread-like band of organised lymph or false membrane stretching across the course of the canal from one point of its circumference to another, attached at each extremity, but free in the middle of its course. The term resilient or elastic stricture is used to express a condition which may be present in any of the forms of stricture arising from alteration in the submucous tissues—those included imder the first head. It is recognised chiefly by its vital characters. When an instrument is fairly passed through the contraction, it dilates or yields so as to allow a rapid increase in the size of the instruments passed. Thus, in some cases where a No. 3 at first is passed with difficulty, when once it has been passed, 4, 5, and 6 may be passed in succession; but three or four days afterwards No. 3 is found to be grasped as tightly as at first. The new organised material presents a white fibrous texture, and is found to possess great elasticity and resiliency. I have said it may occur in any of the submucous forms of con- traction, but the annular stricture is that in which this peculiar and troublesome condition is most generally met with. Besides the pathological states of the urethra itself, we require to consider the morbid alterations of other organs which arise in connection with and in consequence of the urethral disease. Thus, even in its earlier stages the testicle may become painful or swollen in consequence of the sympathetic irritation of the prostatic portion of the urethra ; and in unhealthy patients sub-acute suppuration may even take place. In bad strictures of old standing the prostate gland frequently suffers. We often find it the seat of multilocular abscess. Its substance is sometimes entirely destroyed, and, its proper fibrous capsule thickened, forms the boundary of a cavity containing foetid pus, through which the canal of the urethra dissected bare passes, and with which it in general communicates by one or more ulcerated openings. In such cases the vesiculse seminales are also often distended with glairy and foetid purulent matter.