1276 REGIONAL SURGERY. two. All of tliem were large fat men, and in all of them the pros- tate was rigid, and the stone above the average size, with one excep- tion, where it was of moderate size, and in none of the fatal cases was there any difficulty in the operation, except in the patient seventy-two years of age, where the stone was very large and the perineum unusually contracted from old disease of the hip-joint. Of these patients, one died from continued venous bleeding or oozing, which neither plugging nor other means served to arrest. The patient was an old man with a deep perineum, biit the opera- tion was very easily performed, and there was no bleeding during its performance, nor for some hours afterwards. The lint prevented any bleeding from the wound, but clots oozed through the tube. I was anxious to obtain an examination, as the patient had suffered formerly from severe attacks of hsematuria, but leave was refiised. One case already mentioned died of suppression of urine, and four cases died from phlebitic pyaemia. Five of these patients were from sixty-five to seventy years of age, and one was fifty-six. One case, that of the old man seventy-two years of age from whom I extracted a very large stone, went on favourably for some days, and then died apparently from exhaustion. The two remaining fatal cases were young patients,—the one a child of four years of age, the other a young man of twenty- two. The circumstances of both these were peculiar. The child had suffered from symptoms of stone almost from his birth; but, except that he was very irritable, and that the urine was phosphatic, he seemed in fair condition. I extracted two calculi with great ease, and felt no anxiety as to the result. Next day I found him restless, and he had vomited, as was sup- posed, from the chloroform; but he had also diarrhoea, the stools being of a dark-green colour. The urine had passed freely by the tube and wound. As he was very restless, I withdrew the tube. Vomiting and purging of a green colour continued almost without intermission, and he died in thirty-six hours after the operation. That his evacuations were healthy prior to the opera- tion I can testify, for owing to some neglect, an enema had not been administered, and the faeces were evacuated when he was