REGIONAL SURGERY. 1142 nature of the hernial sac, in relation to its contents and the abdominal walls, and the structural changes which it undergoes, are of great practical importance in reference to diagnosis and treatment. We also require to notice the exceptional cases in which the sac is absent. If we examine the interior of the abdomen in its natural state, we observe that the peritoneum is reflected from off the viscera, on the inner surface of the parietes, to which it is closely connected at some points, but more loosely at others, to admit of the varying distension and movements of the abdominal viscera. When we look at the parietal peritoneum where it covers the deep opening of the inguinal canal, or the deep femoral ring, we notice a slight indentation or depression, corresponding to these apertures ; digital fosScE of the peritoneum, as they are termed anatomically, from the resemblance of the depression to a slight indentation caused by the tip of the finger. ' When a hernia begins in either of the situations indicated, the pressure of the descending protrusion impinges on this shallow pouch, which gradually yields before it so as to form its investing covering or sac, and so in other forms of hernia with slight modifications. If you have followed my description of the for- mation of the sac from the parietal peritoneum, and recollect the relations of the visceral peritoneum, you will easily under- stand that the exceptional cases in which the protruded viscera have no peritoneal sac are rare, and almost Kmited to hernia of the iliac aspect of a portion of the caput coecum coli where that viscus is not invested by the serous membrane. It does not follow, however, that the sac is absent in all cases where the caput coecum coli forms the protrusion. I have operated on cases of both inguinal and femoral hernia containing the caput coecum ; in aU of them the peritoneal sac was present as usual, and opened, though in reducing the intestine its extra-peritoneal surface came into view. I apprehend that the manner in which the ccecum descends makes the difference. If it be pushed down, so turned on itself as to present its iliac or extra-peritoneal aspect, then the sac will be wanting ; but in my own cases I have never met with this condition. Congenital hernia is