STEPS OF THE OPERATION. 1325 fairly in the bladder. In commencing the incision, the thick shoulder of the staff forms an excellent guide as marking the an- terior limit of the contraction, and therefore the incision should begin over it and be carried backwards to the requisite extent. The incision must be exactly in the middle line or raph^ of the perineum, and should be carried deeply at once, especially as it passes backwards from the thick part of the staff; by so doing we avoid the risk of lateral dissection in the deep part of the wound, and the danger of going to one side of the small grooved part of the staff, and come directly down upon it. In cases of indurated perineum, where we might expect great difficulty, we often find the narrow grooved portion of the staff very easily, as the tex- tures do not yield laterally or separate. Moreover, by a decided deep incision in the middle line we incur less risk of htemorrhage. On completing this incision, the operator should pass his right forefinger into the posterior part of the wound, and, with the pulp of the finger directed forwards, feel for the groove in the narrow part of the staff behind or on the vesical aspect of the stricture. If the incision has been deep and well placed, he will generally feel the staff easily; if not, he must touch the textures with the knife directed in the middle line, until he feels the groove almost bare. It is at this stage that an error is apt to occur, unless you attend to a point which you might possibly think of but little consequence in the description of the operation as given by Mr. Syme, but the neglect of which, I am satisfied from experience, was often the cause of difficulties and imperfec- tion in our earlier operations for perineal section. Mr. Syme directs that, on the groove being felt, the knife, guarded oh the forefinger of the operator's right hand, should be inserted into the groove ; in other words, whilst the point of the forefinger has felt and is fixed against the groove, the knife, which has been lying upon the finger, is projected forwards so that it must enter the groove; it cannot pass to either side, and hence is directed at once into the centre of the groove, however narrow that may be, and easily carried through the contraction by pressing it forwards by the finger placed behind it. If, on the contrary, we