CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1417 and the operation performed. About a foot of small intestine of a deep chocolate colour was found in the sac, and returned. A large opiate was ordered. Post-mortem appearances.—About a foot of bowel quite black and sup- purating on the serous surface. Submucous tissue highly congested. Femoral Hernia. Extra-Peritoneal Operation. 8. Helen Steele, set. 36. On admission, stated that she had been afflicted with a hernia for the last ten years, and that she always wore a truss, but neglected on Sunday morning to apply it. About 9 a.m. she suddenly felt a severe pain ui the right groin, and found that she was not able to reduce the swelling as she usually could do. A surgeon was called in, whose efforts to reduce it by taxis, without the aid of chloroform, were imavailing. She came to the Infirmary about 7.30 p.m. Mr. Spence performed the extra-peritoneal operation, and the patient made a very rapid recovery. Remarks on the Cases of Hernia.—The group of cases presented in this Report is of very considerable interest, for it furnishes, in small compass, examples of some of the most important conditions met with in strangu- lated hernia, and the plan of treatment adapted for each. The first case, that of Mary Stark, is an example of the bad effects of delay, permitting the incarceration to proceed to complete strangulation and gangrene. The case, in fact, had been treated for constipation in the first instance, and active purgatives administered before the hernia was dis- covered. Then the taxis was tried ineffectually. I was then requested to see the patient, and urged her to have the operation performed ; but both she and her friends refused, and another day was lost before she came into hospital. Her condition was then very hopeless ; her pulse was weak and intermitting, and she had stercoraceous vomiting and constant hiccup ; but as the operation was the only chance for life, I performed it. After the division of the stricture I drew down the gangrenous portion, but did not open it till after some hours, when lymph had become effused ; so as to dimiuish the risk of extravasation of fseces into the abdomen. I then opened it freely, and there were fseculent evacuations both by the wound and by the anus. The operation afforded great relief to the general symptoms, the vomiting ceased, and the pulse became firmer for a time ; but this reaction soon ceased, and she gradually sank. I believe, from the slow progress of the symptoms, that had this patient been operated on even a few days earlier, there can be little doubt the result would have been as favourable as in the case of Mrs. Dalziel; and I think medical men can hardly be too much impressed with the necessity for careful examination, in all cases of obstinate constipation, lest a hernia be overlooked. The reason I did not at once open the gangrenous part of the intestine arose from having observed that in cases where this has been done immediately, the patients often sink very rapidly, with great increase of abdominal pain; and I believe this is due to some of the thin faeculent matter oozing back through the divided constriction into the abdomen. Freely dividing the constriction, drawing down the gangrenous part, and applying warm-water dressing, or