MODIFICATIONS OF THE OPERATION. 1259 woxmded if in their normal position, and even the superficial perineal can scarcely be cut, its small transverse twig and the anterior htemorrhoidal branches being the only vessels divided ; so that the risks of infiltration of urine, and of hsemorrhage, are almost at the minimum ; whilst, by care in using the knife, and by pressing the rectum aside with the left forefinger in making the deep incision and in withdrawing the knife, wouiid of that intestine is not likely to occur, and in point of fact is a very rare accident. I therefore consider tliat the lateral opera- tion of lithotomy is in general preferable to any of the other methods. I have described the steps of the operation as usually per- formed, but various modifications are used by different siirgeons, and numerous instruments have been devised to overcome diffi- culties, or with the intention of giving precision to the incisions. The different mechanical devices seem to me to resolve themselves into two general forms—\st. Those intended to facilitate finding the groove in the membranous part of the urethra, and caiTying the knife easily along the groove without risk of its slipping downwards in taking the curve. Amongst these devices we have Earle's d'ouble staff, to enable the operator to cut directly from the skin into the urethra, a thing which no one now thinks of. And more recently we have Aston Key's straight staff and Buchanan's rectangular staff, both of which enable the operator to run his knife very easily into the bladder, and by attending to the angle formed by the knife, to regulate the extent of the prostatic incision. The second series of mechanical contrivances are the most numerous, and are those intended to ensure making the incision of the prostate of a determinate size. Such are the different forms of gorgets and broad knives cutting only to a limited extent, to be used for the prostatic incision, such as those of DesaUlt, Cooper, Brodie, and Syme, and the lithotome cache. But, except in some cases of enlarged and rigid prostate, where a bluntish-edged gorget or the probe-pointed knife may be useful to enlarge the prostatic incision, the ordinary lithotomy- knife is far safer. I have never used any of these instruments 4 N