REGIONAL SURGERY. 990 teeth, and the fingers under the chin. By means of the thumbs we then depress the angle of the jaw, and push it backwards, whilst the chin is tilted forwards, and in this way the dis- location is in general easily reduced. Some recommend that the thumbs should be wrapped in a handkerchief or towel, to protect them from being bitten, when the condyle becomes replaced suddenly by the powerful action of the temporal muscles. I have never seen any great necessity for this pre- caution, and if the operator does not take care of his thumbs, he may be none the worse of being taught by experience. The bilateral dislocation is in most cases somewhat more difficult to reduce, but still it is easy enough generally. After the reduc- tion has been effected, we must apply a bandage, and keep the jaw fixed for some time, as this dislocation is very apt to recur when it has once happened, especially in females of a hysterical temperament, in whom dislocation of the jaw is not uncommon. In regard to Injuries and Diseases of the Ear, the limits of the course force me to confine myself to a general view of the more ordinary accidents and diseased conditions which you will have to deal with ill general practice ; and even with these I must deal briefly. Woimds of the external ear, or auricle, are not uncommon, but require no special treatment. In some instances the whole auricle, or large portions of it, are detached, and the result is very great impairment of hearing on the injured side. In cases where the whole auricle has been carried away, the patient must have had a very narrow escape for his life. In one, which occurred in my hospital practice some years ago, a railway porter was thrown down by the tender of an engine, and his ear detached except at one point, where it was held by a thin slip of skin. This was cut through, and the patient did well; but his hearing on that side was nearly lost. I got an ear modellel in vulcanised india-rubber, to serve as a substitute ; and this did assist his hearing a little. A late highly respected physician of this city, who in his youth had been an oflicer of