1217 RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. if not fatal, consequences. In all sucli cases the catheter must be kept in the bladder for a day or two. The urinary bladder is so placed in the pelvis as not to be exposed to much risk from penetrating wounds of the abdomen, unless these pass obliquely from before downwards and back- wards, or unless the bladder be distended so as to have risen above the pubis at the time of the injury. In fractures of the pelvis, however, sharp projecting portions may perforate the viscus, or it may be torn by the force causing the injury. When the bladder is much distended, it may be ruptured in consequence of the patient receiving a blow on the abdomen, or by his falling, or running against a post. In such circumstances the rupture usually takes place towards the posterior aspect of the superior fundus, and consequently the urine is effused into the peritoneal sac amongst the viscera. In other cases where the blow has been received just above the pubis, the anterior wall of the dis- tended viscus yields below the reflexion of the peritoneum, and then the urine is extravasated into the cellular tissue of the pelvis and iliac fossae. In either case the injury is one that leaves small chance of recovery. In the rupture immediately above the pubis there is some slight chance of recovery if prompt treat- ment be adopted.—by incising the integuments and linea alba at the lower part of the abdomen, whereby an outlet is afforded for the urine and sloughing cellular tissue; then introducing and retaining a vulcanised india-rubber catheter in the bladder, taking care to change it every second day, and at the same time watching the constitutional symptoms and supporting the patient's strength. Even in the case of rupture of the distended bladder into the peritoneum, there is one case of recovery on record, re- garding which, from the history of the case and the symptoms, I think no reasonable doubt can exist that the bladder was rup- tured above the peritoneal reflexion. When this case was first published, it was objected, that, with the exception of the urine first drawn off, there was no bloody urine. But this is not won- derful, for the bladder, in its ordinary condition, is not very vas- cular. And as to matter of fact, in a case which I attended along