REGIONAL SURGERY. 996 symptom of more serious miscliief. Our attention must be directed to improve the general health, and by inserting a seton in the neck or the application of the actual cautery, to try and arrest the progress of the deep caries. In cases where the textures over the mastoid process are swollen, red, and puffy, an incision should be made down upon the bone. When this is done, it not unfrequently happens that unhealthy pus escapes by the wound at the time : at other times, a thin exfolia- tion of bone takes place, with relief of the urgent symptoms ; and, at all events, the relief of tension is followed by allevia- tion of the pain. Polypi in the External Passage of the Ear are easily re- cognised, and removed by the use of small forceps, in a similar manner that we remove polypi from the nostrils. It is well to keep in mind, however, that in this situation there is peculiar soft red polypoid protrusion, which is usually connected with diseased bone, and wdiich is rapidly reproduced after removal. It is, in fact, rather a form of polypoid granulation than a true polypus, although often assuming a regular pyriform shape. After remov- ing such excrescences, it is well to touch the surface from whence we have removed them with red oxide of mercury, nitrate of silver, or solution of chloride of zinc, to prevent, if possible, their reproduction. Amongst the various diseases giving rise to deafness, Obstruc- tion OF THE Eustachian Tube was at one time very much insisted on by sj^ecialists as a frequent cause of that infirmity, and catheterism of the tube, the eustachian air-douche, and similar operations, were very fashionable. Now, whilst obstruction of the eustachian tube undoubtedly causes imperfection in hearing, the requisite reverberation being thereby prevented, j^et the causes of the obstruction are of a kind which can either be remedied by simpler measures, or in which catheterism of tlie tube is inapplicable. In the former class we have obstruction from swelling of the surrounding mucous membrane, or from inspis-