1352 REGIONAL SURGERY. scarified for the sanie purpose, and the conjunctival surface painted over vi^ith a solution of nitrate of silver, or a strong solution of alum ; leeches should be applied to the temples and a blister behind the ear, and strict antiphlogistic regimen enforced. In milder forms, the solution of nitrate of silver or alum to the conjunctiva to arrest the purulent discharge, combined with the use of saline purgatives, is in general sufficient to relieve it. When the sclerotic coat of the eye or the iris becomes affected, the use of calomel and opium, and the local application of bella- donna or atropine, must be used in addition to antiphlogistic re- medies, on the general principles of treating sclerotitis and iritis. The irritation caused by the gonorrheal discharge sometimes leads to the formation of warts on the prepuce and glans penis. I believe that attention to cleanliness, and washing the parts fre- quently with some mild alkaline lotion, wiU do much to prevent such formations. They occur, indeed, in their most exaggerated form, in females, in whom, from the constant discharge lodging on the nymphae and vulva, and passing back from the vagina, we frequently find enormous masses of warts occupying the peri- neum and around the orifice of the anus. In the early stage of these warty excrescences, the application of nitrate of silver, strong acetic or chromic acid, is sufficient to destroy them, and if alkaline lotions be subsequently used, their extension will be prevented. When large, pendulous, and prominent, they must be clipped off, and the cut surface, and any incipient vegetations, touched with nitrate of silver. We occasionally meet with a discharge of purulent matter from the lining membrane of the prepuce, and the surface of the glans penis—Gonoerhcea Pr^putialis. The prepuce is swollen, oedematous, and painful, and the discharge is of a greenish- yellow colour, and has a peculiarly offensive odour. The se- baceous secretion seems to be altered in character, and increased. There is no pain on micturition, but considerable tenderness of the glans penis. The treatment required is purely local. Alka- line washes should be injected between the glans and prepuce,