REGIONAL SURGERY. 1116 the extreme ramifications of the bronchi be wounded; but as the cough becomes more frequent, instead of the rusty sputum of pneumonia, there is bloody sputum. The wovmd, however, may not be a penetrating one ; but if the surgeon be over- anxious to make a correct diagnosis, and use the probe freely in a wound of this kind, where the parts closing the cavity are naturally thin, and where the wound may have penetrated all but through the pleura costalis, he will probably convert it into a penetrating wound. Hence I think that in such cases it is better to wait a little and take the indications of the symp- toms as to the character of the injury. If the wound be a penetrating one, with any lesion of the vis- cera, the symptoms will soon be very marked, and will leave us in no doubt as to its nature and the danger attending it. If it beavery slightly penetrating wound, and if the bad symptoms do not come on, the patient is all the better for not having it probed and inter- fered with. In most cases we find that in penetrating wounds of any importance, unmistakable evidence soon appears as to their character, and therefore we may rest satisfied without being too anxious to examine and ascertain their depth at first. We may examine the weapon which inflicted the wound, to gain some idea of the depth, but not the wound itself, for that involves risk to the patient. So also in fracture of the ribs, we examine them as already described, but do not manipulate and poke about the chest, for by pressing in on the fractured rib we may thrust the broken ends through the pleura, and do much more harm than good. If we are in any doubt, it is better to treat the if it were one of simple fracture of the rib. I think that when an accurate diagnosis is necessary in reference to the treatment, or when our examination is attended with no risk, we ought to be most exact in our diagnosis; but where the knowledge, whether it is a penetrating wound or not, makes no difference in the treatment of the case, we should not incur risk to make out the nature of the injury. The treatment in every case ought to be the same as if the wound were a penetrating one : use all precautions to keep the patient at rest, give opiates and de-