1422 REGIONAL SURGERY. Remarks.—This case exemplifies tlie difficulties of diagnosis, and the complications which occur in cases of internal intestinal obstruction, and which render gastrotomy such a doubtful pro- cedure. In this instance, whilst there were obvious causes of obstruction in the rectum, the principal obstruction was situated in the small intestines, and was caused by the coil of gut which had descended into the pelvis being so compressed between the two ovarian tumours, that irritation had been excited, and recent adhesions had occurred. Case of Rupture of the Urinary Bladder. (Eead before the Edinburgh Medico-Chh-urgical Society, 1860.) The following case of ruptured bladder seemed to me of suffi- cient interest for publication, as a contribution towards the illustration of a class of injuries in "which, as in the present instance, post-mortem examination not unfrequently reveals con- ditions which could scarcely have been predicted from the symptoms during life :— On tlie niglit of the lOtli December last, J. J., a healthy man, aged 32, had been supping with some friends, and, feeling his bladder much dis- tended, left for the purpose of making water. On going hurriedly down stairs, he slipped his foot and fell backwards with considerable force, the back of his head striking against one of the steps. He was found lying insensible, and was carried upstairs to the house he had just left, and laid on a bed. In the course of an hour, the effects of the concussion dimi- nished ; he became more conscious, was restless, and somewhat incoherent, constantly crying out he wanted to make water, and vainly attempting to do so. As this state continued, he was put into a cab and driven home to his own house ; and next morning (the 11th December 1859), his wife sent for Dr. Menzies, who visited him at 10 a.m. He was then quite sensible, but still unable to empty his bladder. Dr. Menzies passed a full- sized catheter easily, and drew otf nearly a chamber-potful of bloody urine, with great relief. He, however, complained of severe pain over the abdo- men, increased on pressure ; his pulse was hard and wiry ; and there was tj'mpanitic distension. Dr. Menzies bled him, to a slight extent, with considerable relief to the pain ; and as it appeared his bowels had been constipated for some days previously, an enema was ordered to be given. In the evening, Dr. Menzies again drew off a large quantity of iirine, much less bloody ; his bowels, however, had not acted, the tympanitis was in- creased, and he had occasional vomiting.