CLINICAL CASES. FACIAL AND CERVICAL REGIONS. Case of Excision of the Lower Jaw, in which both Lateral Portions of the Bone have been removed, leaving merely A Small Portion at the Symphysis.—Ed. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1843. My principal reason for publishing the following case is, that it is the only one, as far as I am aware, in which both lateral por- tions of the inferior maxilla have been removed, leaving merely the symphysis of the bone remaining, and hence I considered it might be interesting to the profession. The first operation on the patient whose case is the subject of the communication, was performed by Mr. Fergusson (now Sir William Fergusson) in 1836 ; and, through the kindness of that gentleman, I am enabled to commence the history of the case with his report. " Mrs. Fitzpatrick, aged 46, received a blow on the right side of the lower jaw several years ago, and since then various small portions of bone have been discharged from time to time. A tumour has gradually formed on the bone between the angle and the chin, and has since attained the size of a hen's egg, its growth having increased rapidly within the last five months. There is no particular pain in the part, but it now begins to annoy her from its size. On the left side the alveolar processes are some- what thickened, and the teeth on both sides are very deficient, only a few stumps remaining. " With the concurrence of Sir George Ballingall, Mr. Nasmyth, and others, I removed the tumour on the right side on the 12th of March 1836, having divided the bone behind and a little above the angle, and in front a little anterior to the mental foramen. The wound healed kindly, and a firm cicatrix formed in the mouth between the divided ends of the maxilla. I used occasionally to see this patient afterwards, and observed that the swelling on the other side was gradually increasing. Several sections were made of the part which had been removed, and each surface presented a smooth' dense aspect of a homogeneous character throughout. The deposit of new structure had seemingly taken place between the alveoli and the maxillary canal, as the latter part had been pushed downwards until it had reached tlie external plate of bone on the lower margin of the jaw. There was no soft point in the growth, and