CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1037 Third, as to the treatment. I have always regretted that chloroform should have been given in this case, for I think that the condition it induced rendered the expulsive efibrts less for- cible than they usually are in such cases. The appearance of the foreign body was so momentary that there was no time to seize it, even if we had not expected that it would be forcibly expelled. The manner in which it was carried back into the bronchus, and the evidently complete occlusion of air from the left lung, rendered all chance of its expulsion hopeless ; and therefore no time was lost in trying, by the means already men- tioned, to loosen it from its position, so much at least as to admit air along its side into the lung beyond, and so favour its expulsion. This was principally attempted by the use of flat- tened probes ; but we felt, at the same time, the risk of impact- ing the stone more firmly, and therefore great care was taken to keep the flattened probe close to the sides of the tube in passing it. As I have said, neither this nor inverting and shaking the patient, prodiiced any effect. In the subsequent attemj)ts, the application of some suction power, applied through a tube passed down the bronchus, was suggested; but, in consultation, it was agreed that the irritation to the passages by these manipulations would be productive of more harm and risk than its chance of success could compensate for, and that by leaving the child quiet for a time, the body might become loosened by the changes induced by its own presence. Unfortunately, however, the state of the right lung precluded the chance of the success of this plan, which, under ordinary circumstances, I believe, would be the wisest to adopt. As to other methods, in my remarks on Case I., I have stated my opinion that, even if we were sure of the position of the foreign body, the small size of the passages renders the introduc- tion of extracting instruments impossible, and that, unaided by the natural expulsive efforts, artificial means would be very inefficient ; and I regret that my experience in this second case does not enable me to alter my opinion.