1262 REGIONAL SURGERY. advised that the incision should be made on the right side of the perineum, and the right lateral lobe of the prostate di- vided. The reason assigned for this recommendation is, that the textiires formerly cut will be so condensed and resistant as to render their division and the extraction of the stone very difficult. I have had occasion to operate on a patient, fifteen years after he had been operated on for stone by another surgeon. The patient was a big, stout man, above sixty years of age, with all the ap- pearance of a very deep perineum. I performed the ordinary lateral operation, dividing the old cicatrix, and not only met with no difficulty, but feel satisfied that the textures were atrophied so as to render the perineum shallower, whilst the prostate, usually rigid in old men, oi^ered no resistance, the incision yielding easily to the pressure of the finger. In a word the operation was easier than usual in performance, and there scarcely was a table- spoonful of blood lost. So that, in such cases, I see no reason for performing lithotomy on the right side of the perineum. The Bilateral Operation of lithotomy, as its title implies, has for its object the section of both lateral lobes of the prostate, so as to give a larger opening at the neck of the bladder, with- out division of the fascial structures which oppose the risk of urinary infiltration. In performing the lateral operation, it has long been a rule with surgeons, when the stone was found of a size larger than was likely to be easUy extracted by the section of the left side of the gland, to divide the right lateral lobe with a probe-pointed bistoury. Baron Dupuytren, however, proposed the special operation as the safest, and therefore the preferable method in aU cases, as he considered it diminished both the risk of infiltration and haemorrhage; and, by giving the largest possible opening in the prostate, avoided the risks arising from bruising the deep textures in extracting the stone, and the line of the external incision was allowed to correspond to the double incision of the prostate. The bilateral operation of Dupuytren is, as described by himself, the Celsian lithotomy,