1306 REGIONAL SURGERY. Very commonly the thing that attracts his attention is, that after he has finished micturition and arranged his dress, he finds the urine dribbles away and stains his linen. At other times, he notices the twisted or forked appearance of the stream ; not un- frequently irritability or swelling of the testicle causes him to consult the surgeon, and leads to the discovery of the real cause of his symptoms. The condition of complete retention is, of course, too urgent to escape notice, and this state may arise at a comparatively early period of the disease; because congestion or irritation from any cause, when superadded to organic contrac- tion, may occlude the passage temporarily, and in all cases of retention from organic stricture these causes are in operation. The symptoms of disordered functions of the digestive organs, arising indirectly front, or connected with, urethral stricture, are generally present in cases of tight contraction. Mr. Abernethy drew attention to this, and also to the fact that disordered functions of other organs, by exciting irritation of the urinary organs, might simulate some of the symptoms of stricture. These views, though perfectly true when properly understood, led at one time to very mischievous practice. Unfortunate dyspeptics who, under a series of leading questions, were made to confess tliat they occasionally felt uneasiness about the urinary organs, were at once subjected to a course of bougies, and they were fortunate if they escaped without having real mischief excited in the urinary passage. From what I have seen of patients who have been under treat- ment for stricture, I fear the most extended charity will not allow me to believe that the practice alluded to has been alto- gether abandoned. I have been frequently consulted by patients, who had for weeks or months been undergoing gradual dilatation up to No. 3 or 4, but in whom I found that a Ko. 9 catheter passed without let or hindrance into the bladder. There is one indirect effect of bad stricture to which I would draw your attention, as of importance in regard to its diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment—I mean, the secondary effect produced on the nervous centres of the lower part of the medvdla spinalis, in consequence of the" long-continued irritation of the nerves