REGIONAL SURGERY. 1314 their ultimate object the more or less rapid and complete re- moval of the conditions causing the contraction or obstruction. It would be alike difficult and useless to try to enumerate all the plans proposed for the treatment of urethral stricture. I shall confine my remarks to the methods now practised. These may be classified under the heads of—Vital dilatation, Destruction of the contraction by caustics, Division of the stricture by lan- cette-catheters from within the canal or by Perineal section from without, and by forcible dilatation or rupture of the contrac- tion, as by Holt's method. Some of these plans of treatment I can do little more than mention. The methods which, from extensive experience in stricture cases, I consider really safe and effective, are—Vital Dilatation, Holt's Method, and Perineal Section. Vital dilatation is perhaps the method most generally appli- cable in ordinary cases of stricture, especially in private practice, and therefore I shall begin with it. By this method, I mean the introduction of an instrument through the contraction, and leaving it for a longer or shorter time for the purpose of promot- ing absorj)tion of the new material which has caused diminution of the width of the canal; repeating this process every three or four days, and gradually increasing the size of the instrument until we can pass one which fully occupies the orifice of the urethra, which I have indicated as the natural gauge of the calibre of the rest of the canal. The principle upon which we proceed may be understood from what we find takes place in cases of retention in which we leave in a small catheter, say No. 1 or No. 2. After ten liours or less the urine is noticed to trickle along the sides of the instrument, as well as through it, and when, at the end of twenty-four or forty-eight hours, we remove the small catheter, which was at first tightly held, we find that a No. 4 can be passed with perfect ease, showing that, beyond the mere mecha- nical distension, vital causes have been acting on the organised material, and have led to partial absorption of it. Indeed, at one time, this plan of causing rapid vital dilatation was used as a gene- ral method, instruments being introduced in succession, and left