POSITION OF THE EXTRAVASATED URINE. 1333 and posteriorly it approaches the point of junction of the ramus with the tuber ischii; laterally it is defined by the line of the rami of the ischium and pubes on each side. After a time the definition may be less marked, owing to acute oedema of the subcutaneous tissue supervening. If the extravasation is allowed to proceed, the swelling passes up along the course of the sper- matic cord, to the lower part of the abdomen. It is of importance to notice the form and course of the swell- ing, as seen at the early stage, as that explains the site of the extra- vasated fluid, and indicates the measures necessary in the treat- ment. An examination of such cases shows that the urethra has given way behind the stricture, very generally just behind the bulb, and that the urine is extravasated below the triangular ligament, between it and the true superficial fascia of the perineum. The superficial fascia of the perineum, after passing over the muscles covering the bulb and crus penis, and the transverse muscles of the perineum, is reflected or passes deeply behind the last-men- tioned muscles, and becomes intimately united to the posterior margin of the triangular ligament. Laterally, as it ascends, it covers in the crus penis on each side, and immediately external to the crus it becomes firmly connected to the fascia covering the muscles of the thigh, which arise from the rami of the pubes and. ischium ; anteriorly, at the scrotum, it is continued as a part of the scrotal coverings, and thence along the chord to the lower part of the abdomen, where it can be traced as continuous with the fascia of Scarpa or deep layer of the superficial abdominal fascia. The anatomical arrangement of this fascia determines the position of the swelling caused by the effused fluid, and the course which that fluid takes. It will be at once seen that in the perineum the connections of the superficial fascia and its relation to the triangular liga- ment form a sac closed posteriorly and laterally, so that fluid effused between the triangular ligament and the superficial fascia cannot gravitate or pass back towards the anal or posterior region of the perineum, or laterally towards the thighs, but must neces- sarily pass forwards and upwards to the mouth of the pouch, where