REGIONAL SURGERY. 1394 discover an internal opening, you should select tlie thinnest, most attenuated part of the septum, and, forcing the bistoury through it, perform the same manoeuvre. In the case of an internal fistula, with no external opening, the internal opening is usually large and easily felt with the finger in the gut, and the integuments near the anus are boggy and undermined, so that, by making a small incision there, it is readily converted into a complete fistula, and dealt with as already described. Sometimes, instead of using the knife, irritating injections have been employed with the view of causing obliteration of the sinus, and various other methods have been employed, some- times with success. As a general rule, however, such endeavours serve only to lose time, and to waste the strength and re- sources of the patient. For the obtaining of direct and satisfac- tory results, nothing can equal the operation just recommended. Previous to the operation the bowels should be thoroughly evacuated by means of an enema, and after the operation an opiate is given to prevent action of the bowels for a day or two. Great care and cleanliness are required in the after-treatment. When the hsemorrhage, which is generally slight, has ceased, a piece of dry lint should be gently laid in, not stuffed into, the cavity. This serves to favour granulation, and to prevent the newly cut edges from reuniting and healing up. After this lint is removed I seldom introduce more dressing, but merely touch the surfaces lightly with nitrate of silver occasionally. This serves the purpose of slight stimulation, and simplifies the after- treatment, whilst pushing lint into the wound prevents the healing process, and induces imdue action. Little else is required. The patient should be kept at rest in bed, and atten- tion given to the general health. From the frequency with which the disease under considera- tion is associated with disease of the lungs, no case can be said to be properly treated where the state of these organs is over- looked. If phthisis be far advanced, it would be obviously unwise to interfere locally for the relief of fistula ; but where there exists only the predisposition, a good local result may be