OPERATION OF PARACENTESIS THORACIS. 1121 it does very well for liydrothorax, but not for thick purulent collec- tions in the chest. Percussion does not indicate the nature of the contained fluid, the sound being dull in all cases, whether serum, pus, or sero-purulent fluid be present; and we must, there- fore, judge from the history of the case. If rigors and fever have preceded the formation of the fluid, or if it has followed a wound, we may be tolerably sure that we have to deal with empyema and not serous fluid. We may have the pus, as in all other chronic abscesses, more or less irregular, and varying in its consistence. Empyema is, in fact, just an abscess withiu the pleura. When the fluid is equable and tolerably thin, we can draw it off by a trocar and canula, as in hydrothorax, but sometimes we find that, after taking away some of the fluid, the instrument becomes choked ; a piece of lymph or curdy pus has entered the canula and plugged it up. Whenever we find that the pus is of an irregular consist- ence, with flakes of lymph in it, we should cut down upon the intercostal spaces and penetrate the chest by the old operation for empyema. This is not necessary in hydrothorax, or where the pus is thin, but only where the pus is thick and irregular. The incision through the intercostal spaces is made midway between the ribs, or rather nearer the upper margin of the lower rib than the lower margin of the upper rib. The skin is first drawn up and rendered tense, so that when it relaxes afterwards, it forms a sort of valve over the wound. In other words, the wound of the surface is made so that it may not correspond to the deep wound. The surgeon then cuts down upon the intercostal muscles, and divides them till he sees the pleura, which generally bulges out; the point of the knife is then entered into it, and some pus is ejected; then with a probe-pointed bistoury the opening is en- larged, so as to allow the contained pus to escape freely. The lung is in most cases adherent, and cannot distend, though it tends to do so ; the air entering has still further a tendency to cau.se the lung to collapse. All the thick part of the pus can be drawn off in this way, much better than by the trocar and canula. When the surgeon uses the trocar and canula to draw off the fluid, and finds that he cannot draw it all off, he should leave in