REGIONAL SURGERY. 1188 regards the diagnosis of a direct from an oblique hernia, and also as regards the use of a truss in a child. By using a truss in a child, as I have already stated, at an early period, we often effect a radical cure ; so that when the child grows up the truss may be left off altogether. Even in the adult, in many cases, the canal looks almost direct; and it used formerly to be of great importance to distinguish a direct from an oblique inguinal hernia. In probably nine out of ten cases an inguinal hernia is oblique, but the hernia presses inwards towards the inner margin of the ring, and dilates it, so that it comes nearly opposite to and in a line with the superficial or external ring, and it looks very direct; but this is merely from the great dilatation of the deep ring. In the Operation for inguinal hernife the line of incision is much the same in either case, whether it be oblique or direct. Commence the incision well over the neck of the sac, corresponding to a point above where we notice the projection, because we want to expose and see clearly the parts at and above the neck. The length of the incision should be from two and a half to three inches. Even in a large scrotal hernia the incision should not be longer. We only want to make the incision over the canal. Beginning, then, above the neck of the sac, we cut through the skin and superficial fascia with one incision. I generally make this first incision from within outwards, by pinch- ing up a transverse fold of the integuments and loose textures from over the protrusion, and transfixing it with the bistoury, the back of the knife being towards the hernia. I then cut out, dividing the fold, and extend the incision upwards and down- wards, if necessary. In cases of gangrenous hernitB, or in those where, from inflammatory action, the superficial parts are matted together, the method just described cannot be followed. In such cases we must cut cautiously from the skin through the dif- ferent textures, till we reach the sac. If any vessel, no matter whether large or small, begins to bleed, it must be secured, not so much on account of the risk from loss of blood, as that the haemorrhage would interfere with the after proceedings. We