1130 REGIONAL SURGERY. except, perhaps, the stomach, in which case the character of the vomiting which occurs speedily, shows the nature of the injury. The principle of Treatment is the same in all cases : whenever there is a suspicion that the viscera are wounded, we should give opiates internally, and also opiate enemata. As regards food, the less given the better : ice may he given to suck, but the use of nutrient enemata is perhaps the best method of nourishing the patient for the first day or two. The object is to prevent the peristaltic movements of the intestine, to allow the wound in the viscera to become covered over with lymph, and to prevent the possibility of the parts being distended with food. The risk of internal hsemorrhage cannot be guarded against, the only thing we can do is to apply cold both externally and internally ; but, after all, these are very trivial measures when the vessel wounded is of large size. Sometimes we are able to tie the wounded vessel; but in these cases the amount of injury done renders the case a very hopeless one. I have seen a case where a portion of the bowel with the mesentery was injured, and branches of the mesenteric artery torn, and here I was able to tie the wounded vessels; but in such a wound, whilst the surgeon is bound to arrest haemorrhage and use every precaution, it is evident that the chances of a favourable result are very small. In some cases of wounds of the abdomen a direct traumatic hernia may take place ; the bowels are protruded through the wound. When this happens, the intestine must be examined care- fully to see if it is wounded, and also to see that no arteries are injured. Where a penetrating wound of the abdomen, with pro- trusion of the viscera, has occurred, we find that in most cases, from the patient falling on the ground, a quantity of dirt and dust has lodged on the surface of the intestines. The intestine must, therefore, be washed to get rid of this, and this is done by pouring lukewarm water very gently upon it, without handling it much, though we may turn over the convolutions of the gut to see if any part of it has been wounded, whether any perfora- tion of the bowel has taken place, or any blood-vessel at the