CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1095 and a double tube introduced. Great relief to tlie breatliing immediately followed the operation. 20?/j.—Pulse 140 ; skin hot ; but patient breathing much more easily. The tube is carefully kept clear. Since the operation, considerable pain and tenderness have been felt below the left jaw. 22(/.—Pulse 120, and skin cooler. The tenderness below the jaw has disapj)eared. Breathing very easy. The tube was taken out to-day, and did not require to be replaced. Ibth.—Pulse 120, rather small ; ordered 5ij wine. The tube required to be replaced, as the breathing was becoming impeded from the closing of the wound. 26^/i.—Tube finally removed to-day ; doing well. 30i;A.—Pulse 100 ; breathing easy ; general health very much im- proved. April 6th.—Pulse 100, full and soft; general appearance much im- proved ; and the tracheotomy wound is closing rapidly. The raw surface left after the repeated blistering is still sloughy and irritable. lOth.—Going on very well ; wound nearly closed, and blistered sur- face healing. 20^/i.—Continues to improve. 29^/i.—Dismissed cured. Case V.—Margaret Kerr, 2i years of age ; was admitted into the Eoyal Infirmary on the 5th September 1857. The patient was seized with symptoms of croup on the evening of September 2d, but was not alarmingly ill until the afternoon of the 4th, when medical advice was obtained. In spite of the treatment adopted—warm bath, leeching, and blistering— the little patient got rapidly worse, and was brought to the Infirmary by Dr. Gordon in an extremely exhausted and almost moribund condition, at mid-day of the 5th instant. Tracheotomy was performed by Mr. Spence without delay. There was no trouble from haemorrhage ; some shreds of lymph and a small quantity of mucus tinged with blood escaped at the moment of opening the trachea. A double tube was introduced, and secured behind the neck in the usual way. The operation was followed by immediate relief to the breathing ; but the extreme prostration, the lividity of the countenance, and the smallness of the pulse, passed off but slowly. She was immediately put to bed in a warm room, hot bottles i^laced around her, and wine freely given. Under the use of these means, she gradually revived ; the face regained its natural colour, and the pulse became stronger.. For the first few hours after the operation she was constantly watched by a dresser, the tube kept clear with a feather, and the inner tube fre- quently removed to be more efl:'ectually cleaned. The nurse, and the mother of the child were also taught how to do this. Sept. Qth.—The tube has been constantly kept clear, and the breathing has been quiet and easy during the night, except from slight occasional attacks of dyspnoea from the imperfect expectoration through the tube.