1075 CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. the sternal fossa. Lastly, T carried a third incision, four inches long, from the middle of the first incision backwards to the anterior margin of tlie trapezius. I then dissected the skin and platysma, so as to expose the anterior portion of the tumour as far inwards as the tracheal margin, which I cleared from the fascial covering, and elevated. Next, passing my finger beneath the fascia and the fibres of the omo-hyoid muscle, whicli were stretched over the growth at the lower part of the neck, I divided them, and had the satisfaction to find that the substernal portion was defined and unattached, and could be readily turned out. I now proceeded to clear the remainder of the tumour by dividing the sterno- mastoid transversely, and dissecting it and the other coverings of[ from the surface in two tiaps, as marked out by the incisions. In doing this, some small superficial vessels were tied. On fully exposing the tumour, a large vein was seen on its surface at the upper part. This vein, though distended above, was obliterated where it lay over the lower part of the growth. The distended part of the vein I included in two ligatures, and divided it between them. The whole mass being now fully exposed, I proceeded to dissect it out from before backwards, feeling with my left forefinger for the vessels, so as to protect them from risk of injury. On clearing and raising outwards the anterior portion of the growth from its deep connections, the carotid artery and pneumogastric nerve were seen bare, as if dissected from their sheath, but the internal jugular vein could not be seen, and the pneumogastric lay somewhat in front of the carotid at its lower part. As I could neither see nor feel anything of the internal jugular, I next dissected the tumour from its posterior aspect, and then from the subclavian space, cutting with the edge of the knife close towards the deep surface of the tumour, so as to avoid the phrenic and sympathetic nerves and the thoracic duct in the deep dissection at the inferior region of the neck. At one part the tumour was closely adherent to the fascia over the upper part of tlie scalenus anticus, but by dissecting the fascia from the muscle the whole growth was removed entire. The parts now represented a deep dissection of the whole side of the neck, but no trace of the internal jugular vein in its natural relation could be seen, and it was concluded that the vein tied on the surface of the tumour was the jugular. There was very little bleeding, only a few small arteries requiring to be tied ; but the last touch of the knife, separating the tumour, divided a small vein, which retracted between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and as it could not be seized, the troublesome oozing from it required to be arrested by pressure. The surface of the wound was painted over with tincture of iodine, and the integuments were replaced and united by sutures, except at the posterior angle of the transverse incision, which was left open to permit any discharge to escape, a compress of sponge supported by a bandage being placed over the wound to prevent venous oozing. The patient was then removed to the ward and placed in bed, his head properly supported. In the evening, some recurrence of bleeding necessitated opening the posterior part of wound. The bleeding was found to proceed from a small artery, which was tied. No further bleeding from the vein had taken place, and the wound was finally closed with sutures.