1004 REGIONAL SURGERY. invariably confined to one lateral lobe, or to a cystic projection of the isthmus. In either the solid or cystic bronchocele, the position and general form of the swelling, together with its connection with the trachea, are in general sufficient to decide our diagnosis. If the patient be made to swallow repeatedly a little fluid slowly, the Avay in which the tumour ascends and descends synchronously with the movements of the larynx and tracliea, can leave us in little doubt as to its nature and relations. There are, however, tumours developed from or connected with the thyroid body, which occupy a position apparently quite away from it, and which are not very distinctly affected by the movements of the trachea during deglutition. These tumours, apparently superficial at their most prominent part, might lead to some confusion to the operator in removing them, unless he were prepared to find that they are always deep-seated over the sheath of the vessels, and that instead of being defined and rounded, as their external appearance would indicate, they are rather pyriform, the narrow part being attached below to the lateral lobe of the thyroid. Hence they ai'e not much affected by the movements of the rest of the gland,—yet by attentive examination they will be felt to move in such a way as to make us suspect the true connections. I have removed two large growths of this kind, and the external appearances of one of them are represented in Plate xlvii. Fig. 1. The more solid forms of bronchocele, or goitre, are compara- tively common, and in some mountainous countries and in certain districts of England the disease seems to be endemic. In many instances the thyroid enlargement attains a great size without materially affecting the functions of respiration and deglutition, although, I think, invariably affecting the general health, for such patients are usually ansemic, with prominent eye- balls and weak circulation. In other cases the embarrassment of the breathing is very great, and in some cases necessitates the performance of tracheotomy. In the cystic form, which often attains an enormous size, the air-passages are displaced laterally,