REGIONAL SURGERY. 1154 The patient should also be cautioned to take special care to regulate the action of the bowels, and avoid all sources of irri- tation of the digestive organs. The foregoing examples of irreducible herniae are not neces- sarily attended with any immediate dangers, although all of them render the life of the patient precarious. But when a hernia becomes irreducible, from acute incarceration or strangu- lation, the case is very different. Then the danger is immi- nent, and the symptoms soon denote the urgency of the case. Such acute incarceration and strangulation depend on constric- tion of the protrusion, leading at first to interrupted function in the protruded intestine, followed by peritonitis, and more or less rapidly by mortification of the protruded parts, the result of complete strangulation. The term. Incarceration in hernia, is used by some authors to include herniae imprisoned by adhe- sions or altered bulk from chronic changes ; but I think it better to confine it to denote the early stage of acute constriction, before complete strangulation takes place. There is, perhaps, no disease in which it is more necessary for the surgeon to have clear ideas as to the exact conditions with which he has to deal, than in acutely-incarcerated or strangulated hernia. The very term constriction, though proper when cor- rectly understood, is apt to mislead, by giving the idea that some active contraction of the apertures or structure, through which the protrusion emerges, has taken place. We have seen that the openings through which herniae pass, are formed in fas- cial or aponeurotic structures. It is at these apertures, or at the contracted portion of the sac, or in the resistant condensed fibro- cellular substance, external to and around the neck of the sac, that the cause of constriction exists. The muscular textures crossing over the protrusion may compress it and oppose its re- duction to some degree, and favour congestion in it; but they can never absolutely constrict it; and, besides, by various methods, we can obviate muscular contraction ; but, I repeat, it is in the aponeurotic and condensed fibro-cellular structures that the resistant cause of constriction is to be found. In one instance.