1287 CATHETERISM. In most cases of enlarged prostate an ordinary catheter will answer well enough. A full-sized round-pointed catheter will enter most easily, but it must be passed carefully and gently. On coming to the prostatic part of the urethra, we depress the handle rather more than usual, so as to elevate the point of the catheter. If it be obstructed in the mesial line, direct the point to one or other side in case it be a lateral enlargement, but do not use force. An ordinary catheter, however, may not be able to reach the bladder when there is great enlargement of the prostate, and in these cases we should use the prostatic catheter, which is about thirteen inches in length, and which has a dif- ferent curve from the ordinary catheter. The curve is much more abrupt, and the instrument is longer from the curve to the point, than the ordinary catheter. Its size should generally be large, ISTo. 10 or 11 of the catheter gauge. In cases where there is any real difficulty from great enlarge- ment of the gland, the prostatic catheter passes much more readily, and will reach the bladder when an ordinary one may fail to do so. There is no more risk in using it than the common catheter, if it be passed properly. We must keep it bearing gently against the upper wall of the urethra, as we pass it onwards, not letting it get too far down in the perineum, hooking it up under the pubis as it were, then depressing the handle, and using very little pressure to guide it onwards and upwards. In this way the instrument may in general be readily passed into the bladder. Another method of emptying the bladder in cases of enlarged prostate, is ,to use a gum-elastic catheter with a stilette. We use it with an ordinary curve at first, and pass it down into the membranous, then into the prostatic part of the urethra onwards to the obstruction. We then fix the instrument here, and with- draw the point of the stilette. This increases the curve of the catheter, and makes its point pass over the obstruction, and thus it sometimes enters the bladder, when a silver catheter will not readily pass. When there is any real difficulty, however, I think that the silver prostatic catheter is the safest and the best,