REGIONAL SURGERY. 1112 roller is put round the chest several times ; but it is better to use a veiy broad flannel bandage, and pin it firmly, for we do not want to interfere with the breathing, but merely to confine the respiratory movements within certain limits, and to support the broken bone. If we use an ordinary roller, we are apt to press too firmly on one portion of the rib, and so do more harm than good. When several ribs are fractured, the same treatment is required, but the bandage must be applied more firmly. Along with this local treatment we should give opiates and ipecacu- anha to aUay the cough and irritation, but not antimony, as it is apt to caiise vomiting. If there be much pain in the chest, venesection should be had recourse to ; for if there be much congestion, especially in healthy patients, a moderate amount of depletion will relieve it, and really with less loss of vital power to the patient than would accrue from a long course of depressing remedies internally. Fracture of the ribs, as well as some other injuries of the chest, may give rise to the condition known as Emphysema. Two or three ribs are broken, for example, and comminuted, without any external wound being present. A portion of a rib is projected inwards, tears the pleura, and wounds the surface of the lung : the air-vessels are opened into, and the air escapes. If the wound in the lung be considerable, the air escapes pretty rapidly. It passes into the pleura very readily, then into the intercostal spaces, and thence is diffused into the subcutaneous cellular tissue over the chest. There is air over the surface of the fracture—it extends into the axilla, and passes up around the pectoral muscle into the neck. The neck, face, and axilla, become distended, also the front of the abdomen, the sides, the back, the scrotum, and the lower extremity; in fact, the external surface of the subcutaneous cellular tissue is blown up by the air which escapes. This does not happen often to the full extent I have stated, but the following sketch is not alto- gether a fanciful case. I recollect the case of a child, about five or six years old, who got several ribs broken: the whole body became much swollen—the face was enormously dis-