CLINICAL CASES. THORACIC REGION. Disarticulation of the Sternal Half of the Clavicle. G. L., labourer, forty-eight years of age, and of strumous habit, had sviffered for a length of time from epileptic fits, consequent upon an injury of the head, received eleven years ago, by a fall from a height, and the whole of the sternal haK of the bone was much enlarged and of irregular form. In the beginning of December 1847, he was seen by Mr. Falconer, Loanhead, on account of an abscess which had formed towards the outer part of the clavicle. This abscess was opened, and although the matter discharged was thin and unhealthy, no diseased bone could be detected by the probe. The wound healed in about a fortnight or three weeks. Shortly after it had cicatrised, the patient fell down in one of his epileptic fits, and on recovering he found a thick but sharp-pointed portion of the clavicle projecting through the thin recent cicatrix. Mr. Falconer states, that the projecting portion of bone was of diseased appearance when it first protruded ; and when I saw it, about a week afterwards, in the beginning of January 1848, the exposed portion was rough and apparently carious. After this, although the parts were kept in perfect rest, abscesses formed at various points near the clavicle, about the root of the neck, and in the supra-clavicular space in the vicinity of the subclavian vessels ; also above the sternum. Near the sternum there was a small opening, through which the bone could be felt rough and bare ; and the other abscesses, although the probe could not detect any direct communication with the diseased bone, evidently depended upon the irritation excited by its presence. I saw the patient two or three times after this, but the exposed portion of bone did not become loose ; and it resisted every efibrt to detach and re- move it. After waiting for nearly three months in expectation of some necrosed portions becoming loosened by the natural process, but finding it still im- possible to detach and extract it from the rest of the bone, whilst the man's health was rapidly sinking under the constant discharge and hectic, I proposed the removal of the whole internal half of the clavicle from its sternal articulation, so as to include all the diseased bone, to which pro- posal the patient at once assented. On the 11th April 1848, I proceeded to excise the diseased portion of the clavicle, assisted by Messrs. Goodsir and Falconer, and in the presence of Dr. Smith, Messrs. Harvey and Edwards. Chloroform having been given, I made an incision about three and a half inches along the inner half of the clavicle, commencing about four lines internal to the sterno- clavicular articulation, and then made a perpendicular incision about an inch and a half in length across the former, at the point corresponding to