REGIONAL SURGERY. 1054 with the view that the grosser portions of the contents of the stomach may pass into it easily. This, however, is an objection- able form of the instrument, for the mucous membrane of the stomach is liable to be sucked in, and often seriously injured, while the tube is closed against the ingesta. The extremity of the tube should be closed, and the eye of the instrument ought in all cases to be very large, and beyond and above the point of the tube. To save time and trouble in emergencies, the instrument should never be fitted with screws, but with slip-joints. When poisoning is suspected, tepid water should be pumped into the stomach to hold the poison in solution. The fluid should then be pumped out, and the process repeated until the water is quite clear when withdrawn, and there is good reason to believe that the poison has been wholly, or as far as possible, removed. The surgeon may require to perform (Esophagotomy, when a foreign body is so fixed in the cesophagus that it can neither be drawn up nor pushed downwards. The obstruction is generally in the upper part of the oesophagus. The incision for cesophagotomy should be made a little nearer the middle line, but very much in the direction of that for ligature of the left common carotid artery. The skin and fascia being divided, the sterno-mastoid is drawn aside, and any vessels which may bleed are tied. The finger, or the handle of the knife, being used to separate the parts, the edges of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles are drawn to the mesial line. The thyroid body is drawn inwards and upwards. The recurrent laryngeal nerve lies between the cesophagus and trachea on the left side, so that (and more especially when the oesophagus is distended by a foreign body) it is necessary to draw aside or avoid the nerve, and open into the oesophagus, where there are no nervous filaments upon it. The inferior thyroid artery, which passes up to the lower angle of the thyroid body, should also be carefully avoided, as well as its branches. The sheath of the carotid artery, of course, should never be opened, but merely drawn aside. When the foreign body distends the oesophagus, it is