TREATMENT OF GONORRHCEA. 1349 lest lie incur suspicion, he may drink aerated potash, or seltzer waters. After the discharge has become thick and muco-purulent, we may begin the use of the specific remedies, such as cubebs or balsam of copaiva. In my own practice I generally begin by exhibiting the balsam of copaiva in doses of fifteen drops, thrice a- day, either by itself or in the form of emulsion, combined with tincture of hyoscyamus, liquor potassae, and some mucilage, afterwards the dose of the balsam may be increased, or it may be combined with cubebs and henbane into a paste, of which the patient takes a bolus thrice daily. In cases where the discharge continues longer than usual, or where the patient has had pre- vious attacks, a grain or two of tannin or powdered alum may be added to each dose of the paste. As to local applications, at first, acetate of lead lotion may be applied to bathe the glans penis, and to the inflamed orifice of the urethra, and subsequently in weak solution with acetate of morphia it maybe injected into the passage. In using this, or any other form of injection, the canal should first be washed out by injecting tepid water. Should pain and swelling of the inguinal glands occur, rest is absolutely necessary, together with the local application of acetate of lead lotion to the swollen glands. My experience is, that suppuration rarely occurs in such swollen glands in gonorrhoea, but these precautions are requisite to prevent the risk. If chordee super- venes, the use of an opiate suppository at bedtime, or an enema of iced water, and a camphor and hyoscyamus pill at night, are the best means of preventing this painful symptom. When an attack does occur, plunging the organ into cold water is the best means of affording temporary relief. When, during the retrocedent stage, symptoms of prostatitis and irritable bladder supervene, the use of cubebs and the balsamic remedies should be left off, and camphor and henbane, either in emulsion or in the form of pill, substituted, and the patient should drink freely of diluents; and after the bowels have been cleared out by a dose of castor oil, an opiate, enema, or suppository, should be administered. If the patient be young