1016 REGIONAL SURGERY. the subdivisions of the left bronchus, a very small plum-stone firmly impacted. The symptoms here must have been due to the reflex action of the nerves causing spasm of the glottis, for, even to the last, whenever the opening was closed, the difficult respiration was re-established. In another case, that of a man, tracheotomy had been performed, and for some reason the tube was kept permanently in. One day, when he was riding out, the shield of the tube had fallen off, and, according to the man's own account, the tube had passed into the larynx. On examining his throat I detected it in the left bronchus. He was therefore put under chloroform, by holding a handkerchief to the opening in the trachea, and the tube was extracted by means of a pair of pharynx forceps, the closed blades of which were introduced into the bronchus, and inserted into the oj^en mouth of the tube ; the blades were then opened so as to hold the tube firmly during its withdrawal. In performing tracheotomy for loose foreign bodies, some special points are to be attended to, not only as to the mode of operating, but as to the use of chloroform. If a foreign body be lying loose in the trachea, and if we expect it to be ejected by the natural expulsive efforts when the tracheal opening is made, we should give no chloroform. In the case of the girl mentioned in the preceding page, for example, I believe the expulsive efforts of nature would have forced out the foreign body had chloroform not been previously administered. In cases of impacted foreign bodies, on the other hand, where we require to use instruments for their extraction, and where the introduction of the instruments neces- sarily causes a great deal of irritation and convulsive cough, chloro- form is of very great service, for it quiets the patient, and greatly increases the chances of success. In cases of a doubtful kind, as where a small coin or a large plum-stone has been swallowed, and may be impacted, though we hope it is not, I think we should per- form the early part of the operation of tracheotomy without chloro- form. If we find afterwards that tlie foreign body is not ex- pelled by the natural efforts of the patient, but is impacted in the air-passages, then we may give the patient chloroform, and