1150 REGIONAL SURGERY. to prevent the truss pressing on the position of the deep ring and canal, where the compression is chiefly wanted. Pressure over the external ring merely prevents the rupture passing into the scrotum. The form of truss I prefer in general is what is termed " the opposite-sided truss," or " Salmon and Ody's truss." In this apparatus the spring passes from the centre of the back of the patient round the side opposite to that on which the hernia is situated, so that the pressure of the head is made ob- liquely from below upwards, so as to counteract directly the line in which the impulse of the descending protrusion is greatest. This form of truss is usually fitted with a ball-and-socket joint at the junction of the spring with the head or compress of the truss. Thus the apparatus is not displaced by the movements of the body, and the spring does not require to be so strong as in the common truss. At the same time, the pressure thus exerted is chiefly at one point, viz. the centre of the compress, and the hernia is apt to tilt up and escape from i;nder the mar- gins of the compress. To prevent this, and to maintain the direction of the force, I very generally use a back lever-spring added to the head. To some extent this interferes with the action of the ball-and-socket joint, but the accuracy with which the pressure is adapted more than compensates for that. In cases of femoral hernia the opposite-sided truss is decidedly pre- ferable to any other, but the head should be formed to fit the triangular hollow of the groin, and its surface so shaped as to project deeply under the falciform edge as it were. The form of the head of Eagland's spiral truss, fitted to the opposite side spring, and secured by the back-lever pressure, answers very well in most cases. In some patients I have found the use of a small piece of soft sponge, applied over the femoral ring, and sup- ported by the truss, of service where great difficulty was ex- perienced in retaining femoral rupture. The following measurements should enable the instrument- maker to furnish the proper size. As an error of an inch may alter the whole proportion of the truss, it is necessary to give the full circumference of the body. Place the end of the