1115 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. trol hsemorrhage, and also to allow the air to escape, and so let the lung collapse. The circulation in the lung is thus diminished or interrupted, and the hsemorrhage from the wound in its substance is thereby arrested; we give time for the parts to glaze over, and for the air-vessels to close up by the effusion of lymph. The blood-vessels become closed, while the lung is collapsed, and then after thirty hours or so, if there be no contra- indication, we may close the external wound. The lung will in all probability gradually distend again ; but even if it does not, there will be no interruption to the action of the opposite lung, and no displacement of the heart and blood-vessels. This, I think, is the proper treatment, the principle of it being, to give time for the parts to be glazed over, before closing up the wound. I generally lay the patient on the woimded side ; this allows the discharges to escape, and then the parts are so placed that the air can pass out, though more air cannot readily get in. I also place a thin slip of oiled muslin over the opening, arranged as a valve, to allow the escape but prevent the entrance of air. At the same time some support should be given to the chest by a bandage. The general treatment must also be attended to, as there is a risk of pleuritis coming on, and opiates should be given to allay the pain and irritation. When much blood has been lost, support the patient's strength, but do not give diffu- sible stimulants, which are apt to excite irritation and inflam- mation in the parts. The method of examining wounds of the chest and abdomen is important; for there is sometimes much mischief caused by not attending properly to this point. As the great danger lies in the fact of the wound being a penetrating one, the risks are very much increased, if, as often happens, the surgeon is too anxious to make out clearly at the very first, whether the wound is penetrating or not. In many cases there can be very little doubt, from the markedly sunk and depressed appearance of the patient, the irregularity of the pulse, and the state of the respiration. If the lung be wounded, there will be more or less bloody sputum, though this may not appear at first, if only 4 D