CASTRATION. 1365 one side and then to the other, so as to mark out for removal a large elliptical portion of the scrotal integuments. These inci- sions should be carried deeply through the coverings to the tumour. The surgeon next clears the cord at the upper part of his incision, and cuts through the fibres of the cremaster, and separates the cord thoroughly, so that his assistant can grasp it firmly between his finger and thumb, above the point where it is to be divided. By taking these precautions, there is no fear of the cord being retracted or slipping. Of late I have in several instances secured the vessels of the cord, and prevented retrac- tion, by passing an acupressure needle beneath the vessels, and compressing them with the wire loop. When the cord is thus secured, the operator divides it, and then, unless any unusual adhesions exist, the testicle, along with the elliptical portion of integument marked out by the incisions, is turned out by a few touches of the knife ; indeed, the loose connections of the tumour to the scrotum scarcely require the use of the knife after division of the cord. To commence by dissecting the tes- ticle from the scrotum before dividing the cord is to prolong the operation unnecessarily. If acupressure of the cord has been adopted, then the only vessels which require ligature will be the large branch of the inguino-pudic artery, which will be readily found at the vTpper and outer part of the scrotal incision, and the numerous scrotal twigs of the superficial perineal artery at the lower part of the scrotum. The parts should be thoroughly cleansed by pouring first tepid and then cold water over the open wound, which should afterwards be brushed over with spirit of turpentine, to arrest all oozing, and act as an antiseptic. The margins are united by points of suture, the lowest sutures being left untwisted for a few hours to allow any oozing of blood to escape. The patient is then placed in bed, with the thighs slightly separated, and the scrotum supported on a pillow formed of tow or oakum, covered with gutta-percha tissue. A piece gutta-percha tissue is also laid over the wound, and an iee-bag applied over it, and frequently changed. This application of dry