CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1409 swelling and the previous efforts for reduction, that it would be better not to persist too much in the taxis, merely made a slight trial, and failing in that, proceeded to operate. I divided the integuments over the hernia, as I usually do, by a T incision, but owing to the depth of the fat, and the bulk of the tumour, converted it into a crucial incision to gain more room. The superficial fascia having been divided so as to expose the tumour, it was seen to be of a somewhat irregular form on the surface. On drawing the body of the swelling downwards, the falciform edge was seen, with the neck of the hernia very deeply situated. The fasciae immediately covering the sac were next cautiously cut through, and a small flat director was in- sinuated beneath the margin of the falciform edge, which was notched with the bistoury sufficiently to enable me to use the point of my finger to guide the knife in dividing the deeper constriction. On pressing my finger upwards, I became sensible of the indistinct pulsation of a vessel close to the constric- tion, and, therefore, only made a very slight notch upwards and inwards, and another directly upwards, so as to divide the stricture at two points of its circumference. This enabled me to get the point of niy finger so far below the crural arch as to push the vessel upwards and divide the arch to a sufficient extent to allow of the reduction of an ordinary hernia. I then scratched through a few fibres lying immediately on the neck of the sac, and attempted reduction without opening it, but unsuccessfully. I made the less efi"ort to do this, as the hernial contents, as seen through the thin sac, seemed exceedingly dark and tense. I therefore opened the sac, and gave vent to a quantity of dark bloody serum, and exposed a portion of in- testine (the coecum), tense, and almost black from ecchymosis. Anxious to avoid, as far as possible, any further pressure on the bowel, I again enlarged the division of the ring sufficiently to enable me to introduce my finger, and also to draw down and examine the portion of intestine immediately above the stricture: I now found the contents of the sac to consist of the ccecum and the lower portion of the ileum ; the latter was at once easily- reduced, but the ccEcimi, from its form and connections, could not be so readily returned, and as, on examining it, I found a small portion of its peritoneal and muscular coats had been lacerated by the attempts at taxis, I thought it safest to make a still freer opening by dividing Poupart's liga- ment completely. "With this view the cord was drawn upwards with a blunt hook, and I carefully dissected through the lower part of the tendon of the external oblique in a line corresponding to the centre of the femoral ring. Having fairly divided the superimposed textures, I found that there ■was still some constriction higher up preventing the gut being returned, and which kept it tense. On passing my finger up, I felt a tight cord-like substance encircling the hernia external to the sac, and recollecting the vessel I had felt pulsating, I at once concluded this must be the irregular obturator, whilst from the bulk, distension and state of the protruded gut, it was equally evident this constricting cord must be divided to permit safe reduction. Accordingly, keeping the finger of my left hand within the guide to the constricting vessel, I used the forefinger of my right hand so as hook it down, and brought it distinctly into view. The vessel was tied with two ligatures, and divided between them, the gut reduced, and the wound dressed and bandaged in the usiial way. I ordered an opiate to be given, and directed leeches to be applied at