REGIONAL SURGERY. 1288 as we can guide it; though we may succeed occasionally with a gum-elastic catheter, by the manoeuvre above described; I occasionally use it when, from previous experience in a case, I know that there is a valvular obstruction from projection of the third lobe of the prostate. The vulcanised india-rubber catheter is very useful for some purposes. If we do not withdraw a catheter in prostatic disease, as we may sometimes be obliged to do, especially in country practice, where we cannot always visit our patient frequently, the vulcanised india-rubber catheter is most suitable, as it can be left in the bladder with much greater safety than the gum- elastic or the silver instrument. Again, whilst it is not always safe to allow patients to use a catheter themselves in pros- tatic disease, yet with a vulcanised india-rubber catheter, from its softness, they can do themselves no harm even if they fail in getting the instrument into the bladder. It should never be used, however, when there is any laceration of the urethra. This instrument nmst be introduced bit by bit, because, if we take too much of it in hand at once, it bends upon itself. The soft india-rubber catheter should have considerable resistance at the point, and the eye should be small, so as to obviate the bending of the point on itself near the eye. Besides the mere mechanical treatment in prostatic disease, I have already said that we must also attend to other things. Having relieved the urgent condition of retention, we then direct the patient to take some strong decoction of Pareira brava, or the infusion of Triticum rejpcns, to allay irritation of the bladder and urethra. If the urme be loaded with mucus, the infusions of buchu or uva ursi should be given either alone or with the pareira. We must also examine the urine to see whether it is phosphatic, or if it merely contains phosphates from the prostatic irritation ; and we must be careful to make this examination occasionally at short intervals. The first urine drawn off after retention will probably be ammoniacal; but if it be generally acid, a very small quantity of alkali, such as potass-water, should be taken as a drink in addition to the vegetable infusion. The