CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 10G3 Ye&p.—P. 120, fair strength. Ordered a compound colocynth pill.. \lth.—Still some redness about the wound. Some points of suture removed. P. 120. \%th.—P. 90. Flaps yielding at corners of mouth and eye. 20;/t.— Had a severe rigor at 12.30. Given brandy and morphia and hot bottles applied. 22(Z.—Ligatures came away. P. 95. 24th.—Wound kept together by plasters. Afril 5th.—F. 75, strong.—Going on most favourably. 8th.—Sat up to-day. 23c?.—^Wound all but healed. Walks about the ward. 30th.—Sent to Convalescent House. Case of Enormous Deep-Seated TaaiouR of the Face and Neck, successfully removed by Operation. In the beginning of October 1862,1 received a letter from Dr. Phipps, of Manchester, in reference to the patient whose case I am about to narrate. He gave me the general history of her case ; and enclosed three photographic portraits, exhibiting a tumour from different points of view ; and requested me to say whether I thought there was any possibility of removing it, as she was willing to run any risk to have it removed. The his- tory of her case was as follows :— Mrs. Jepson, aged thirty-four, of a healthy appearance, states that, when eighteen years old she noticed what she calls a " waxen kernel," growing under the skin over the mastoid process of the right side, and immediately under the lobule of the ear. For two years it showed no tendency to grow larger, but afterwards it increased slowly ; and she ap- plied for relief to several medical men. In spite of the use of iodine, ex- ternally and internally, it continued to grow. She was married when she was twenty-one years of age ; and states that during her pregnancies the tumour appeared to increase more rapidly than at other times. Four years after her marriage the growth had reached the size of a large hen's egg ; and she was taken by her medical attendant to the Manchester Infir- mary, to obtain the advice of the surgeons of that institution. They told her that the tumour might be removed ; but that she must take the whole risk of the operation on herself. Her own medical attendant seems to have dissuaded her from having anything done. Since then the tumour has continued gradually enlarging ; but of late years has shown a marked tendency to more rapid increase. I was informed that the patient, harassed by the weight and defor- mity of the tumour, had recently applied to a surgeon at Manchester to have it removed ; but he declined interfering, and dissuaded her from sub-