CLINICAL CASES ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE TREATMENT OF HERNIA. Case I.—Scrotal Hernia. Peculiarity in the Constriction. P. B., aged 40, the subject of the present case, had heen affected with hernia for a great many years. At an early period of the complaint he had worn a truss, but for some time back had discontinued its use. Since then, the swelling had rapidly increased in bulk, but he had always been able to reduce it himself when it became troublesome. On the 25th of August 1840, he was attacked with vomiting and twisting pains in the belly, which, as he had been living rather freely for a few days previously, he attributed to an "attack of bile," and did not apply for medical assistance until the morning of the 27th, when the hernial swelling became painful, and on trying to reduce it as usual, he found he could not do so. He then sent for Mr. Lawrie, who tried to re- duce it by taxis, but without success. I saw him for the first time, at 9 P.M. of the 27th August, along with Mr. Lawrie, when his state, as recorded in my notes, was as follows :— " There is a large scrotal hernia on the right side, which is tense, and painful to the touch ; but the contents of which can be returned into the abdomen, with the exception of a hard rounded mass, which feels exactly like an enlarged testicle, and which cannot be reduced. The cord can be felt behind the hernia, and the testicle, of natural size, in its usual position, at the lower part of the scrotum. He has frequent vomiting and hiccup ; the belly is tense, tympanitic, and tender to the touch, and he complains of severe twisting pains from the hernia towards the navel. Except a scanty stool when the vomiting first began, he has had no motion in his bowels since the commencement of the attack, although enemata and laxative medicines have been given. The expression of his countenance is anxioiis ; skin rather warm, and covered with perspiration ; pulse 108. He says that he never felt the ' hard lump' in the rupture on any previous occasion." At half-past 11 a.m. I saw him, .along with Drs. J. A. Robertson, J. Reid, and Duncan. The symptoms had become more urgent, and there was constant hiccup. Cold having been applied to the tumour, and the taxis again fairly tried, but unsuccessfully, I proceeded to operate. An incision about three inches long was made over the swelling, commencing at the situation of the deep ring, and continued downwards ; the different cover- ings were then divided, and the sac exposed and opened, in the usual manner, to a sufficient extent to enable me to pass my finger upwards to