REGIONAL SURGERY. 1144 •with its constricted neck, and this may give rise to special diffi- culties in operating should the hernia become strangulated. (See case of Peter B. in Clinical Cases.) When the sac is thin, the continuous pressure of its contents seems to efface it at some parts. I have seen two instances of this in old ventral herniae, where the omentum was adherent to the subcutaneous fat, whilst the sac was perfect at all other points. This change, how- ever, must be exceedingly rare, and I have never met with it in any form of hernia but the ventral. The coverings of a hernial protrusion vary according to the part at which the protrusion occurs; but there is one covering which requires to be specially noticed — namely, that layer of condensed fibro-cellular tissue termed the fascia propria of a hernia. This, the immediately investing covering of the sac, is derived from the margins of the deep opening through which the hernia has protruded. The deep ring or aperture is in some fascial or aponeurotic structure, and the margins of the opening are not defined and abrupt, but are gradually prolonged downwards in a funnel form. Thus, for example, in oblique inguinal hernia, the margins of the deep ring in the fascia transversalis are gradually prolonged on the spermatic cord; and when the hernia occurs, the sac and its contents are insinuated beneath this layer in front of the cord, and hence it receives the title of the fascia propria of oblique inguinal hernia. Now, this layer of thin condensed fibro-cellular tissue, from whatever source derived, lies in close contact with the sac, and is moulded to the form of the protrusion which it invests. Like the sac itself, this fascia is subject to pressure, and gradually becomes thickened and condensed; portions of its deep surface, or of the fine extra-peritoneal cellular tissue often adhere to or closely embrace the neck of the sac, so as to form a constriction which may appear to be in the structure of the sac itself; and yet, by carefully dividing this condensed tissue, the constriction may be relieved and the protrusion returned without opening the sac; and it is therefore important to keep this in mind in reference to the extra-peritoneal operation for