1384 REGIONAL SURGERY. symptoms co-exist with pain in the rectum, we should examine for piles, or for any abrasion or ulceration in the mucous surface; and generally, the experience or observation of the patient will materially assist us. The Treatment of haemorrhoids varies in different cases. When the piles are in the process of formation, and have not yet assumed the character of actual tumours, but of tumid sensitive points upon the mucous surface, nitric acid may be applied with benefit, especially for the flattened granular piles, whether recent or chronic. In order to do this, it is necessary first to empty the bowel, then to get it protruded by the efforts of the patient. The hsemorrhoidal surface being thus exposed, it should be touched with acid—the other portions of the bowel being at the same time protected by lard or oil. For the more advanced prominent haemor- rhoids the simplest, surest, and safest method of treatment is extir- pation by the application of ligatures. For this purpose the bowels should be emptied as in the former case, and the piles made to protrude. They should then be seized one by one with a vul- sellum, and each transfixed at its base by a needle armed with a strong double hempen ligature. The ligatures should then be separated, and each one tied very firmly, so as to constrict each half of the root. If these be efl&ciently applied, the tumours will separate in eight or ten days, and leave a granulating surface. The whole of the piles should be ligatured at one sitting, for if part of them only are so treated, the remainder will become con- gested and painful The chances of enteritis, phlebitis, and other untoward results, are also much lessened by having the operation fully performed at once. Afterwards a full opiate should be given, and the bladder relieved from time to time if necessary. With the view of obviating the injurious effects which are sometimes ascribed to the presence of ligatures, Mr. Henry Smith has introduced a mode of operation by which their use may be dispensed with. The hsemorrhoidal mass is grasped close to the root by a clamp, the blades of which are firmly screwed upon it. The strangled piles are then clipped off close to the ^lamp, and