EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. xxvi HERNIA—HEMORRHOIDS.—Plate LL—Page 1168. Fig. 1 exMbits the appearance of parts, in a case of gangrenous hernia, after removal of the mortified portion of bowel. The upper and lower orifices of the intestinal tube are seen, and the valve-like fold of the mucous surface between them. (Case referred to at page 1117.) Fig. 2. Portion of gangrenous intestine. A large ulcerated opening is seen at one part below the constriction. Fig. 3. Portion of gut with numerous small perforations, resulting from a slower form of gangrene. In this case, the patient, an old woman, went on very favourably for some days, when she was suddenly seized with acute peritonitis, which had been caused by the escape of the feculent matter by the minute perforations. Page 1158. Fig. 4. Hsemorrhoidal protrusion of congested folds of mucous membrane at the anus. This form of disease has sometimes been con- founded with prolapsus ani. See page 1387. HERNIA.—Plate LIL—Page 1190. Sketches after Sir Charles Bell, showing the steps of the operation in oblique inguinal and in femoral hernia in the female. Fig. 3 shows very well the appearance presented by a femoral hernia, when the skin and superficial fascia are freely divided. Fig. 1. A view of the operation for hernia, descending into the labium From being an inguinal hernia, the intestine liad descended to become a hernia resembling the scrotal hernia of the male, only that it is contained in the labium. A B, The extent of the herniary tumour. C, From this to B, is the course of the first incision, which cuts through the skin and cellular membrane, and exposes the fascia. D, The fascia which covers the proper sac of the hernia. After dissecting off some lamina from it, it is pinched up by the forceps, and the knife being carried horizontally on the surface of the tumour, this layer is cut through; then the director is pushed under it. E, The director pushed under the fascia, to ascertain its nature. Along this the knife is run, laying open the proper peritoneal sac. F, The peritoneal sac, smooth ; and so transparent that the intestine gives it a darker hue. Fig. 2. In this plate we have a view of the second stage of the same opera- tion. The peritoneal sac has been cut up, and now the intestine appears. A, A portion of the small intestine, which seems to have been the original contents of the herniary sac, and which had here sufl'ered less by the incarceration. B, A portion of the great intestine, which had descended more lately, and had been the cause of strangulation. It is known to be a portion of the great intestine, from the greater size, the cellular form, and the