1248 REGIONAL SURGERY. strong fibrous capsule, which gives the gland its form and compactness. If we examine the gland where it surrounds the neck of the bladder, by dissecting off the mucous membrane from the commencement of the prostatic portion of the urethra, we find that at the opening of the bladder there exists a ring of dense elastic fibrous texture, about three lines in breadth and depth : and even in the dead subject, though the orifice of the urethra into the bladder can be dilated to some extent without incision, it will not yield beyond a certain point unless this dense ring be divided, and then we find that when it is cut the gland texture splits up in the direction of the cut with very slight force; this dense structure should always be divided in lithotomy, to enable us to enlarge the opening with the finger. When we look at a dissection of the parts after lithotomy has been performed, such as that shown in Plate Iv. Fig. 1, it would seem as if the incision of the prostate was limited to the opening at the apex of the gland ; but if you look from the interior of the bladder, as in Fig. 2, Plate Iv., you will see that the incision has traversed the whole length of the prostatic urethra, and divided it, together with the elastic fibrous structure—this is indicated by the dotted line in the diagram of the lateral operation. In looking at such a dissection you must, moreover, recollect that the prostate is enveloped in a sort of sac formed by the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. We have seen that the ileo-vesical layer is reflected upon its base, and from it to the bladder on the side, the prostatic layer covers it and the vesiculee seminales laterally, whilst between it and the rectum we find the recto-vesi- cal layer of fascia passing across from one side of the pelvis to the opposite. It is this fascial envelope which maintains the form and gives the appearance of a very limited incision ; for, if we remove the parts, and dissect off the fascial covering, as in Fig. 3, Plate Iv., you observe that in most cases the limited incision made by the knife has split up under pressure of the finger throughout nearly the whole extent of the substance of the prostate, but leaving the resisting fasciae entire; and you will thus understand how a large stone may be easily extracted