1246 .REGIONAL SURGERY. unless we divide the anterior wall of the rectum, as in the recto- vesical operation. We now remove all the muscular and other structures, leaving merely the posterior layer of the triangular ligament, and we can feel the prostate though we cannot see its form. AVe therefore dissect away the posterior layer of fascia, and this brings into view the thick anterior fibres of the levator ani descending on the sides of the prostate, and you will notice how these strong fibres will require division to some extent in lithotomy. Cut across the anterior part of the levator, and the contour of the perineal aspect of the prostate, enclosed in its fascial sheath, is seen. We now turn from the perineum to the interior of the pelvis, strip off the peritoneum from the pelvic fascia, and clear away any fat with the handle of the scalpel. You now perceive that a lamina of the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia is reflected on the upper surface of the prostate, and from it upon the sides of the bladder, above that gland, so as to form a septum or barrier, as it were, between the upper and lower part of the pelvis. Looking from the pelvis you can see nothing of the perineal dis- section. Looking from the perineum you can see nothing above the prostate ; but if you pass the fingers of one hand from the pelvis, and those of the other from the perineum, you feel that they are only separated by this reflected layer of fascia, and you see at once how an opening in the prostate, if made either directly downwards, as in the median operation, or obliquely downwards and outwards, as in the lateral and bilateral methods, if not car- ried too transversely or too far outwards, beyond the base of the gland, will enable you to open the bladder, and extract a stone, without dividing this important barrier, so that the urine will naturally flow by the perineal incision, and cannot possibly reach the subperitoneal cellular tissue. I have avoided entering on the complex descriptive anatomy and nomenclature, and all the connections of these fasciae. I merely content myself with pointing out their relations and bearing on the incisions in lithotomy. The dimensions, form, and structure of the prostate gland