1181 ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA. is termed the deep ring or opening in the fascia transversalis. The sac of the peritoneum, containing the protruded viscera, descends from within this, and as it passes down it is invested by a thin layer of condensed fibro-ceUular tissue, which may be looked on as an offset of the fascia transversalis, continued along the cord from the margins of the deep ring or opening. That opening, however, presents distinct margins of a resistant and somewhat aponeurotic character; the hernia protrudes through this opening, the peritoneal sac being of course carried before it, and forming a part of the protrusion. The protrusion passes down in front of the cord, insinuating itself between that structure and its different coverings as it passes down. In the first instance, therefore, it is covered by the fascia spermatica interna, or, in surgical language, the fascia propria—the prolongation of the fascia transversalis already mentioned. It then proceeds down the canal for about half-an-inch, where the lower margin of the transversalis muscle crosses it, next the lower margin of the internal oblique muscle also covers it in part, and just as it emerges from imder the edge of that muscle, in the male, it receives a series of fibres coming from the internal oblique—the cremasteric fibres. In a case of inguinal hernia, the fibres of the cremaster are scattered and flattened out, mixed with condensed cellular tissue, and this has been termed the cremasteric fascia. The hernia then continues its course along the cord, and passes down, merely covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, till it arrives at the lower opening. At that point an inguinal hernia is generally prevented from passing lower down for a time, and merely bulges out, forming what used to be called a bubonocele or proper inguinal, as distinguished from a scrotal hernia. From the margins of the external ring in the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle it receives another covering, the fascia spermatica externa; and after this it is covered by the common superficial fascia and integument, and then passes down into the scrotum, receiving the different scrotal coverings. On looking at a case of inguinal hernia, as the surgeon cuts down upon it, the coverings are, the skin, superficial fascia, the fascia