CASES SUITABLE FOR LITHOTOMY. 1229 dilating instruments, we can extract the stone readily enougli by- forceps ; but then the patient is sometimes left in a very pitiable condition from the permanent incontinence of urine which results from the cutting or dilatation. Lithotrity has everything to re- commend it in the case of females ; in them the urethra is wide, short, and straight, and we can therefore introduce an instru- ment of great crushing power into the bladder, easily seize and act upon the stone, and there is a direct and free outlet for the crushed fragments of stone. For these reasons, I hold that in females lithotrity is far preferable to extreme dilatation or lithotomy when the stone is so large as to require any surgical interference. In the adult male, however, when the stone is tolerably large and the patient is otherwise healthy, with no great enlargement or hardness of the prostate, and when several sittings would be required before the stone could be thoroughly crushed by litho- trity, I thiak that lithotomy is generally the preferable operation. There is no great danger attendant on lithotomy if it be properly performed; and I would therefore limit lithotrity in the healthy adult male to those cases in which the stone is small and easily friable, and the bladder not excessively irritable, or to cases of enlarged or rigid prostate. Before proceeding to demonstrate the method of performing lithotrity or lithotomy, I must first describe the preparatory exploration of the bladder with the sound, which, as I formerly stated, is the only positive diagnostic of the presence of a stone. This preliminary operation, though simple, requires certain precautions, and must be proceeded with method- ically, so as to make sure of detecting a stone if present; and also to ascertain, approximately at least, the bulk and general character of the calculus. "Whilst doing this, the size of the prostate and its consistence should be examined, so that we may, if possible, avoid any unnecessary explorations prior to the opera- tion. Before proceeding to sound the patient, the bowels should be cleared out, and the rectum emptied by an enema. If the bladder be not very irritable, the patient should be made to