REGIONAL SURGERY. 1026 before the false membrane has formed. ISTow, recoveries by the use of other remedies at this stage, though rare, are not so rare as to entitle us to urge an operation not free from danger in itself, unless we are prepared to show some good grounds for believing that by early operation we could greatly increase the chances of success:—1st, By early relief of the dyspncea preventing the bad effects of the gradually increasing imperfect aeration of the blood, local pulmonary congestion, oedema, or emphysema; or 2d, By preventing the extension of the membranous or plastic exudation downwards. The former of these indications, I believe, would be met by early operation ; the second and more formidable, I fear, would not; for the cases I have operated on show that in certain cases the tendency of tracheal and bronchial exudation to spread downwards continues after the operation has afforded a period of relief, if it be not even increased by the presence of the tube. The presence of the tube—it has been supposed by some—is a means of keeping up the irritation and inducing the false mem- brane to form; but this danger, I believe, is overrated. We are not to perform tracheotomy on every child with a bad cough in croup, for many of them have this paroxysmal cough without being suffocated, and under ordinary treatment the child will get better; but in the second stage of the disease, when the false membrane is forming or has formed, we have a mechanical obstruction, and, besides this, the irritation and the small size of the air-passage justify us in operating. The late Mr. Liston used to object to tracheotomy in croup, on the ground that, if we operated early, there was no physical ob- struction of the breathing to warrant it, and that if we delayed till the symptoms were urgent, the tracheal exudation rendered the operation useless. To neither of these propositions can I assent; but I think we are hardly warranted in operating till all remedies have been actively tried without effect; then there should be no delay. Here, as in many cases, the period of the disease, as regards time, is no criterion. If, in a case of croup, depletion, the warm bath, emetics, counter-irritation, calomel, and other remedies, have been actively used without