1269 EXTRACTION OF THE STONE. portant point of extraction of the stone. In most cases, if tlie stone is of a moderate size, and if a clean incision has been made, sufficient to admit of the easy introduction of forceps of sufficient size and grasp, and if these are introduced and used as directed and as indicated in the diagrams in Plate liv., you will generally meet with no difficulty in seizing and extracting the stone. But when the stone is large, or the perineum very deep, as in the case of enlarged prostate, the difficulties are increased, and in some rare cases the stone may be so placed as to require the use of curved forceps. In my own practice I have in three instances only met with difficulty in extracting the stone. In one of these the patient had an enormously enlarged and rigid prostate and very deep fat perineum, and the difficulty was not, properly speaking, in the extraction of the stone—a small flat one—but in feeling it with the forceps to seize it. It was easily felt with the sound and staff, but it lay flat in the bas-fond of the bladder behind the prostate, and even the curved forceps reached it with difficulty, and the bladder was far beyond the reach of the finger. The patient recovered from the operation, but died about four months afterwards from a paralytic attack, so that I had an opportunity of obtaining the parts, which are in my museum. The track of the wound is still visible, though con- tracted to a mere line, and the measurement from the external incision to the opening in the bladder is fully six and a half inches, even in the dissected preparation. With the exception of that case, which occurred many years ago, I have met with no difficulty in extraction, though I have removed some large calculi, until during the past year, in which I met with two cases. In both of these the perineum was deep, but not of the excessive depth of the case I have mentioned. In one of them the difficulty in seizing the stone was principally due to my neglect of a precaution which I generally take, of making sure of the bladder containing a moderate amount of fluid. The incisions were rapidly effected, but when I introduced my finger and felt the stone, I found that there was very little urine, and that the bladder was contracted so as to render the use of the forceps