REGIONAL SURGERY. 1148 take a curved form, every point in the curve will act in the direction of the versed sine to that point, or what comes to the same thing, to the perpendicular of the tangent of the point. If the curves of the diaphragm were those of a sphere, these perpendiculars would all concentrate in one point; but this not being the case, the perpendiculars will be directed more copiously on some directions than on others—that is, the action of the muscle will be transmitted with greater force to some parts of the boundaries of the abdomen than to others, and thus determine the seat of hernia. If the chest be narrow the direction of the accumulated impulses may fall low, as well as if the distance from the diaphragm to the pelvis be but little, and so an increased impulse may be directed to the femoral ring, accounting for this seat of hernia in females. It is by no means uncommon to see an immense bulging above Poupart's ligament. The aponeurosis of the external oblique appears to be extenuated in these cases, and to yield prodigiously, so as to put on the appearance of a ventral rupture, the part being powerfully forced out on the patient's coughing. This is clearly the effect of the action of the diaphragm, by which the accumulated forces are directed to this spot." We come now to the classification of hernise, under the two heads of Eeducible and Irreducible. These terms scarcely require any explanation. By the former we mean a hernia which can be reduced or returned into the abdominal cavity by gentle manipulation and attention to position, or which even returns spontaneously when the patient is placed in the recumbent posture. The objective and general symptoms of reducible hernia I have already described when speaking of the diagnosis of hernia, and I need not repeat them, but merely advert to its Treatment, which consists in the reduction and retention of the protrusion. Eeduction is accomplished by placing the patient recumbent, with the shoulders slightly raised, and the lower limbs flexed on the pelvis, so as to relax the abdominal muscles; whilst, to prevent the undue action of the diaphragm, or straining, the patient is desired to keep his