REGIONAL SURGERY. 1310 rected, I once heard an old surgeon, who had had great experience in treating stricture, and witnessing the treatment of others, say, that he believed the success of some surgeons, in relieving re- tention where others had failed, depended on " patience, per- severance, and sweet oU,"—a quaint way of expressing what I believe is very true. Without at all disparaging the last very useful item, " the sweet oil," I would specially direct your attention to the combination of patience with perseverance. It is not by mere dogged, determined perseverance, persisting in the use of instruments, that you will succeed. You must, under trying circumstances, patiently consider the probable causes of difficulty, keep your temper from getting ruffled, and never let it lead you into forcible or unmeaning manipulations, otherwise you will increase your difficulties by making false passages. The instrument must be managed gently, held lightly, and guided by the finger of the left hand introduced into the rectum. No force should be used. But then, you may very well ask. What do you mean by no force ? Can you pass an instrument along the urethra, through a tight resistant contraction, without some degree of force ? and how much, then, is justifiable ? Well, I can- not answer the question by saying how many pounds weight of power would be safe, and how much w^ould do harm. So far as I can communicate my own sensations as to force, I say that, in using the catheter or other instrument in such cases, I hold its flat handle lightly between my finger and thumb, and merely communicate sufficient force to guide it along the canal. When I meet with an obstruction—if I feel the point of the instrument pushing against it—I use no force to propel it; on the contrary, I rather leave off all pressure, and, if the instrument feels loose, then I know it had not entered the contraction, but had been pressing against or hitched upon some fold of the mucous mem- brane, and that if I had persisted in pressing it on forcibly, I would have made a false passage. If, on the other hand, on withdrawing the guiding pressure, I feel that the instrument is held or grasped—it has entered the contraction, and if that be tight and of firm consistence, or of some lines in length, then a