CONGENITAL HERNIA. 1191 some opening or weak point in the conjoined tendons, nearer the mesial line than the deep ring, consequently that the hernia only occupies the lower part of the canal, rather crossing the direction of the cord at its lower part, so that this form of hernia has fewer coverings ; it is only covered by the skin, superficial abdominal fascia, and the intercolumnar or external spermatic fascia,—some- times termed the fascia propria of Camper,—and sub-peritoneal cellular tissue; the coverings derived from the internal sper- matic and cremasteric fasciae being absent. Secondly, that at the deep part of the wound the relation of the neck of the protrusion to the deep epigastric artery is reversed ; for as this hernia pro- trudes nearer the mesial line of the body, the artery lies to the outer side of the neck of the sac. At the same time, if the in- cision of the deep constriction be carried directly upwards, parallel to the linea alba, as recommended in oblique hernia, the artery runs no risk. If, however, the edge of the knife is to be inclined to the side, it must be directed-towards the internal side of the neck of the hernia. The after dressings and treat- ment are the same in both forms. Hitherto I have been speaking of the two general forms of inguinal hernia, but under the head of oblique inguinal we meet with two important modifications of hernia—the congenital and infantile. Of these the former is the most common, and, I think, the most important, perhaps, of almost any modification of hernia that we meet with, both as regards diagnosis and treatment. The latter is not so easily defined, and I suspect the arrange- ment of parts must be often varied, to judge from the varying descriptions of it given by different authors. We must now turn our attention to these forms of inguinal hernia; and first to the congenital hernia. By the term Congenital Heknia we do not merely mean a hernia which comes down at birth, but we mean a hernia arising in connection with a peculiar congenital condition of the inguinal canal, which often continues to exist through- out life. The general sac of the peritoneum and the sac of