10C6 REGIONAL SURGERY. Dec. Qth.—Pulse 96 ; several stitches removed. Dec. 8th.—Pulse 98 ; slept better than she has done since the opera- tion ; the lower angle of one of the flaps showing a tendency to inversion, a piece of lint was introduced below it, and the wound dressed with a solu- tion of chloride of soda. Dec. 9th.—Wound discharging freely ; continue dressing ; affection of the facial nerve not so marked ; pulse 96. Dec. 1 Oih.—Still improving ; had a very refreshing sleep last niglit ; taking her food well ; pulse 92. Dec. 15^/i.—Wound lookiaig well ; dressed with a solution of chloride of soda ; taking food well ; sleeping well, and not com2)laining of pain ; has been sitting uj^ a little occasionally since last report ; piilse 84. Dec. nth.—Still imjjroving in every respect ; pulse 84. Dec. '2,0th.—Wound still discharging freely ; appetite good ; pulse normal ; ligatures came away to-day at dressing. Dec. 2,3d.—Yesterday she became sick, and vomited several times after dinner ; sickness continued occasionally during the night ; this morn- ing she is not nearly so sick as the day before ; the wound presents the appearance of grey phagedsena, with erysipelatous blush on the skin ; touched it lightly with nitric acid ; tongue whitisli ; pulse 112. Dec. 24:th.—Sickness entirely gone ; the wound rather dusky-looking ; the surface touched slightly with nitric acid. Dec. 25th.—The wound has much the same appearance as it had yesterday ; continue treatment ; pulse 96. Jmi. 6th.—Since last report she has been improving very satisfactorily ; this morning she walked from Ward XX., where she has been lying tem- porarily, to her old quarters in the private ward ; the wound is looking well, and the tongue clean ; and the pulse is 88. Jan. I2th.—Is much improved ; sat up for an hour yesterday ; the wound is healing rapidly. Feb. 3d.—Since last report the patient has gone on improving daily ; the wound is now almost entirely healed ; and she left the hospital to-day for the Convalescent House. After remaining for some weeks in the Convalescent House till the cure was comjjleted, Mrs. Jepson returned to her home at Over-Darwen, Lancashire ; and since her return 1 have heard frequentlj', both from her- self and also from Dr. Phipps, who states that her health is good and her appearance gradually improving ; the marks of the cicatrix becoming less evident. E.vamination of the Tumour after its Removal.—The growth was of a very irregular form, but may be described as an irregular ovoid mass, 9^- inches in length, 8f inches at broadest jjart ; its thickness or projection 7-| inches, and weighing rather more than 7 pounds. It was nodulated on its surface, some of the larger projections looking like cysts, and feeling soft to the touch. The whole growth, however, was composed of solid matter, and presented, on section, the characters of the fibro-cartilaginous form of fibrous tumours. A careful examination of its structure was made by my friend Dr. Haldane, who has favoured me with the following description of it :— L «...