1120 REGIONAL SURGERY. the cliest, for if left it is apt to become decomposed and give rise to bad symptoms. As a result of inflammation from wounds, or after pleuritis, the surgeon may be called on to operate for removal of the serous or purulent fluid from the chest. This operation is termed Paracentesis tlioracis, and is a very simple one when done for the removal of serous fluid, and it may be repeated without any danger. In most cases we find the pleura somewhat thickened, and it requires some little force to push the trocar through it, but there is no danger in the operation. The point of election is generally between the sixth and seventh ribs, about midway between the sternum and the angles of the ribs ; when the chest is very much distended with fluid there is no great risk, for the fluid lies between us and the contained viscera. Guthrie, in his book On Wounds of the Chest, says that he has often punctured for fluid below the tenth rib, and to avoid the curve of the diaphragm, he punctured far back ; but the objec- tion to this is that the fluid sometimes does not penetrate so far down, besides in every case the diaphragm rises up again and forms a sort of convexity towards the thorax, and we might puncture the diaphragm with the trocar in carrying it forwards, hence I think it is safer to puncture higher up—about the seventh rib. The trocar used is a very small one ; it is pushed into one of the intercostal spaces, somewhat nearer the upper edge of the rib than the lower, for fear of wounding the inter- costal artery—the trocar and canula are pushed inwards, and then the fluid is withdrawn. A small exploring needle may be used; this allows the fluid to escape slowly. Air is occasionally apt to enter the wound. A method which I used to employ was to put a piece of damp muslin over the orifice of the canula ; the fluid of course presses it outwards; but when the air attempts to enter, the muslin is pressed inwards, so that no air can get in. A good trocar and canula, fitted vrith a stop-cock and india- rubber tube, however, answer better. The exhausting syringe also may be used, but great care is required in using it, for if tlie stop-cock be turned the wrong way, the air enters very rapidly :