INFLAMMA TION OF THE EAR. 993 gently washed out with some weak alkaline lotion from time to time. The auricle, and the lining membrane of the external passage of the ear, are frequently the seat of a troublesome eczematous affection, attended with considerable local irritation, and which, if not checked, might lead to chronic disease of the membrane of the tympanum. The auricle and lining membrane are red and glazed, and covered with a sort of scurf or scaly coating, beneath which a thin exudation is poured out. There is intolerable itching, and occasional exacerbations of an inflammatory character. The best treatment is to apply to the parts a weak alkaline lotion, such as bicarbonate of soda, or borax dissolved in water, to which a little glycerine is added. After each application, a lini- ment composed of olive-oil, lime-water, and glycerine, is painted on the surface. When the disease is very obstinate, a s^nall pro- portion of tar-ointment may be added to the simple liniment. Internally, the use of sulphuretted waters is .often of great ser- vice in promoting the cure. Inflammation of the Ear.—Otitis is fortuinately in most instances limited to the external ear. Owing to the nature of the structure affected, it is an extremely painful affection. The pain extends over the side of the face and head, .and ^s aggravated by movements of the jaw, as in mastication. There is often fulness or swelling in the parotid region—redness and turges- cence at the external meatus, and considerable constitutional disturbance and febrile action. In cases where the inflammation attacks the tympanum, the pain is intense, and accompanied by redness, pain, and swelling in the throat, with severe head- ache and sleeplessness. Occasionally the mastoid cells and the internal ear become affected, and then all the symptoms are aggravated, and the condition is a very dangerous one. Besides the symptoms already enumerated, v/e have pain, redness, and tension over the mastoid process and temporal bone in its vici- nity, and the pain is intensified on pressure over the squamous portion of the temporal bone or the mastoid process. The consti-