1256 REGIONAL SURGERY. The staff should be grooved obliquely, on the left side, between its convexity and concavity. The knife I prefer is that known as Liston's knife, moderately broad in the cutting part of the blade, sharp but not too long in the point, and bevelled off at the back, near the point, so as to glide readily in contact with the groove of the staff. The cutting edge extends only for about an inch and a quarter from the point, the part nearer the handle being blunted. (See Plate liii. Fig. 3.) The forceps require to be of different shapes, curved and straight, some with flattened, others with more hollowed blades, so as to grasp firmly different forms of stone, and some so arranged that the blades can be intro- duced separately to enclose the stone, and then locked by a sliding joint. The scoop should have one end hollow and the other curved, so as to act as a lever hook. The gum elastic tube must vary in length according to the depth of the perineum. In ordinary cases four or five inches will be sufficient. Be- fore the operation a circle of cotton bandage is fastened round the abdomen, to which the tapes of the tube are secured after the operation is completed. I shall now suppose that all the preliminaries have been attended to, and that the staff has been introduced and the patient placed in the proper position. The operator, seated before the patient, passes his finger into the rectum, feels the position of the staff, the relations of the prostate and membran- ous part of the urethra, and, having finally adjusted the staff, gives it to the assistant to hold. It should be kept steady, with- out any inclination of the handle towards the abdomen, and, in general, in contact with the stone in the bladder. The position of the staff is all important, more especially in children, or in cases of enlarged prostate in old men, for, if the handle be inclined towards the belly, the point of the staff may be with- drawn from the bladder, and lead to awkward or even serious results. Having adjusted the position of the staff, and committed it to the assistant, who holds it with one hand, and draws up the scrotum with the other, the surgeon feels the space between the