1273 INFILTRATION OF URINE. delirium, and lie at last sinks and dies comatose. On examina- tion after death in such cases, the track of the wound is found discoloured and disorganised, and the fine loose cellular tissue around the neck of the bladder, and in relation to the reflection of the peritoneum, is found sloughy and infiltrated with un- healthy purulent matter. This condition, however, must be very rare. I have never yet seen these appearances in the autopsy of any lithotomy case, and Sir "William Fergusson, in his lectures before the Eoyal College of Surgeons of England, states that he has never seen it, and seems to think that the risk of infiltration has been much exaggerated. I should, however, be rather in- clined to say that the attention which has been directed to this source of danger, and the care taken as to the direction and limitation of the prostatic incision in modern lithotomy, have in a great measure obviated it. Should this condition arise, I fear we can do very little to remedy it, beyond giving stimulants and trying to support the patient's strength. Sir Benjamin Brodie mentions a case in which, by laying the track of the wound and the cavity of the rectum into one, allowing the escape of the sloughing tissue, he saved the patient, but I am not aware that the treatment has ever been repeated by any other surgeon. A limited form of infiltration or foul urinary abscess may occur from imperfect division of the anterior fibres of the levator ani or other tissues, if these prevent the free flow of urine by the wound. The use of the tube, however, tends to prevent such lodgment, by maintaining a free outlet for the urine until the loose textures are consolidated by plastic lymph. For this reason, and also because it may be useful in enabling us to plug the wound in the case of venous bleeding, I consider its use advisable, and if it seems to produce irritation it can be easily removed. Suppression of urine occasionally, though rarely, follows litho- tomy, as it does other operations on the urinary organs. I have met with only one instance of it in my own practice, in the .case of an old stout man. There was no loss of blood during, nor any irritation after, the operation, but from the first four hours after the