1348 REGIONAL SURGERY. retention of urine, which, under the above-mentioned conditions, is attended with excessive suffering. The Treatment of gonorrhcea depends on the stage of the disease when we first see the patient, and also on the state of the constitution. In the very early stage of gonorrhoea it has been proposed to cut short the disease by injecting a strong solution of nitrate of silver into the urethra. This is what is termed the Ectrotic or Abortive treatment. The latter term, in one sense, designates it best, for it almost invariably faUs in effecting the purpose intended, and, from what I have seen of cases in which it had been tried, it frequently excites great irritation in the urethra, and leads to abscesses in the prostate, and lays the foundation of affections of the genito-urinary organs, which may ultimately destroy life by irritation and exhaustion. My limits forbid me entering on a consideration of the many plans of treatment or remedies recommended in this disease, and I shall therefore state briefly the method which, from expe- rience, I believe to be most generally suitable and efficacious. In the very early stage, when the discharge is just beginning, the bowels should first be cleared out by some bland laxative, such as a dose of castor oil, and then regulated by the use of bicarbonate of potash and rhubarb—drastic purgatives should never be given. The patient should be kept as quiet as circum- stances will permit, and the diet should be light and unstimulat- ing. Acetate of potash, in ten grain doses in camphor mixture, should be taken twice a-day, and hyoscyamus may be added if the pain be very great. The parts should be kept very clean, and bathed with some mild alkaline solution. A weak injec- tion of tannin, thrown into the urethra, may be used with advantage, but no stimulating injection should be used in this stage. The patient should drink freely of thin barley water or linseed tea, or the old-fashioned but useful remedy, five-grain doses of nitrate of potash, combined with powder of gum arable, dissolved in water. If he wishes to avoid taking such remedies