AFTER-TREA TMENT. 1169 copious, showing that the bowel has given way. If effusion of faeculent matter takes place, a fistula is formed, and no harm is done, as the parts heal and become adherent to the part corre- sponding to the opening in the bowel. If the bowel does not give way, the patient is no worse than in ordinary cases. In a case at present in hospital, the symptoms had existed for some time before the woman was brought into the hospital; the parts over the hernia were red and congested, and it looked like a gangrenous hernia ; on examining the bowel, I found it to present white points at one or two parts of the surface, and I therefore adopted the plan of treatment just described. In this case, the patient, instead of going on from bad to worse, as might have been expected—for peritonitis had set in before she was brought to the hospital—has gone on very well, and now the wound is healing ; all the bad symptoms have passed off, and no fistula has formed. This, and many similar instances, satisfy me that, in cases where the bowel is at all doubtful-looking, the above plan of treatment is the best we can adopt. In cases where the bowel is decidedly gangrenous, I repeat that we should not cut it off at once, but divide the constriction, and wait till lymph is effused before we remove the gangrenous part, so as to prevent the fseculent matter passing back into the cavity of the abdomen. The after-treatment of cases of strangulated herniae, in which the condition of the bowel is such that we are justified in re- turning it after division of the constriction, is comparatively simple. Still there are some points of importance to be attended to as regards the principles on which it should be conducted. At one time the general practice of surgeons was to give a purgative soon after the operation, so as to obtain a free evacuation of the bowels, and satisfy themselves that the operation was suc- cessful, as it was termed—that is, to be sure that the constriction was relieved. The effect of this violent action excited in the intestinal canal often injuriously affected the portion which had been strangulated, and set up enteritis and peritonitis ; and in the present day most surgeons are agreed as to the propriety of