REGIONAL SURGERY. 113i tympanitis has set in. The use of laxatives must depend on the state of the viscera. In most cases of surgical peritonitis we require to keep the intestines at rest, for a time at least, and therefore we refrain from using this class of remedies. In your practice as surgeons you will be frequently called on to perform Pakacentesis Abdominis, for the purpose of drawing off collections of serous fluid in cases of ascites. In the majority of such cases the surgeon is called in by the medical attendant to perform the operation, in consequence of the accumulation of fluid interfering with the respiration and circulation. From the very nature of the originating causes of the effusion in most cases of ascites, tapping the abdomen is had recourse to rather as a palliative than as a curative operation. I have, however, seen some instances where a certain amovmt of organic affec- tion of the kidney was the cause, and where all' diuretic remedies had lost their effect, while the operation of paracentesis not only relieved the patients temporarily, but the medicinal remedial agents seemed to regain their effect, and the action of the kidney was restored; and in some of these cases the patients recovered and lived for years afterwards. These, however, are exceptional cases: in most instances the fluid rapidly reaccumu- lates, and the operation requires to be repeated from time to time to afford relief. The operation, therefore, should not be hastily performed at first until other remedies have failed to diminish the collection, or when it is interfering with the function of respiration. In all cases the surgeon must satisfy himself as to the diagnosis and state of the patient before operating, for sad mistakes have occasionally occurred. In ascites the fluid collects gradually, and is not confined at first to one side, as in ovarian disease. The abdomen is equally distended throughout, the fluid lying in front of the intestines, except in some cases where previous adhesions limit the fluid in certain directions. In aU cases, percussion and palpation of the distended abdomen should be carefully employed, to ascertain whether the swelling is caused by fluid, and also the relation of the hollow viscera in each case,