FOREIGN BODIES. 1051 tooth is swallowed. I had to deal with a case of this kind some years ago, in the case of a lady who was subject to epileptic fits, and in one of these she swallowed a false tooth, the gold setting of which was much worn. Her ordinary medical attendant w^as sent for, but the tooth had passed beyond his reach. Later in the day he sent for me : and, after a patient search, I discovered the presence of the foreign body by means of an ivory-headed probang. It was situated much beyond reach of the extracting forceps ; but, by means of the tiibular probang, I succeeded in snaring it. The hook of the gold plate, however, had become fastened in the tissues, and for some time I could neither pull it upwards nor push it downwards. At length, however, I suc- ceeded in unfastening it and in pushing it down. Several years ago a young man, a dentist's assistant, pre- sented himself at the Eoyal Infirmary here, and stated that he had swallowed a false tooth. He was seen and examined by the late Mr. Syme, who passed a probang, but could detect nothing by it. He therefore concluded that the tooth had passed down to the stomach, and he dismissed the patient. Some days after- wards the young man returned, and complained of pain some- what keener than before. Again he was carefully examined, and nothing being detected, he was again dismissed. About six weeks after this the late Dr. James Duncan was sent for hur- riedly to see the patient in his lodgings ; and, just as he entered the room, the young man vomited a large quantity of blood and died. On a post-mortem examination it was found that the small hook of the tooth had become inserted into the front of the oesophagus, through which it had ulcerated its way into the aorta : hence the fatal haemorrhage. In the case of a child who swallowed a button, I found it imbedded very low down in the oesophagus, and, as I could not extract it, I pushed it downwards into the stomach. It was afterwards passed by the bowel along with the fteces. In another case I felt a coin: the small oesophagus tube with which I was examining the passage luckily twisted when I drew it up, and brought up the coin along with it. 3 z