REGIONAL SURGERY. 1018 but should he be inverted and shaken, it may roll downwards, so as to impinge iipon the sensitive mucous membrane of the larynx, and it is then very likely to give rise to dangerous suffo- cative spasm of the glottis. The surgeon should, therefore, never have recourse to inversion without having previously pre- pared himself for the immediate performance of tracheotomy in the event of dangerous spasm. Some of the most formidable injuries of the air-passages are caused by Accidents apjsing from the Swallowing of Boiling OR Acrid Fluids.—The immediate effect of swallowing boiling water is to produce great swelling and inflammation about the upper part of the glottis—in fact, a form of acute oedema glot- tidis. Under such circumstances the upper part of the larynx is rapidly closed, and suffocation will ensue unless tracheotomy be speedily performed. So far as the breathing is concerned, this will afford complete relief Subsequently, however, the inflammatory action may extend to the bronchial tubes and give rise to bronchitis, or the injury may so seriously affect the pharynx and oesophagus, as to interfere greatly with deglutition. The case may then terminate fatally some days after the opera- tion, but many cases are saved ; and the surgeon's duty is there- fore to perform tracheotomy early, whenever the symptoms of approaching suffocation begin to appear. I do not recollect any instance, in my own practice, in which tracheotomy was required in consequence of oedema glottidis supervening upon acrid fluids, such as acids, being swallowed by adults or children, either intentionally or accidentally ; but such a result has occurred, and we must therefore be prepared for it. The effect of sulphuric acid on the mucous membrane of the fauces and pharynx is to whiten and corrugate it, lead- ing to its ultimate desquamation. It has not apparently the same tendency to produce swelling as when steam or boil- ing water is inhaled or swallowed, but if in any exceptional case symptoms of suffocation should come on, tracheotomy must be performed without delay.