VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. 1377 and also in securing all bleeding points resulting from such dis- section. The after-treatment must be conducted on the general principles already laid down in reference to great operations, but in ovarian cases a stricter antiphlogistic diet, and free use of ice or iced milk for nourishment and to allay vomiting, seems more indicated than in other cases. Obstetric surgery also lays claim to the treatment of the various genito-urinary fistulae. These are designated according to their site—Vesico-vaginal, and Ueethko-vaginal. They consist of chronic passages or perforations communicating between the cavities indicated through the substance of the intervening septum, and allowing the escape of urine, either in scanty tricklings or a steady stream, according to the size of the communicating aperture, and constituting one of the most distressing infirmities of humanity. Formerly the con- dition thus established was considered incurable, and we are in- debted to Hendrick van Eoonhuysen (1663) for the first feasible plan for its remedy. This was suggested by the operation for the cure of harelip, and consists of a similar procedure, namely, paring the edges of the fistula, and bringing the raw surfaces into close apposition. We shall content ourselves with an ex- planation of the steps of the operation. Choose a bright day. Place the patient on her hands and knees, or recumbent on the left side. Insert a full-sized duck- bill speculum, of the form shown in the woodcut on next page, and expose the parts as fully as possible. Pare the edges freely, by catching up the lip of the fistula, and denuding the ad- jacent thickness by a sharp knife or scissors, so as to carry away the complete marginal ring, and leave, if possible, an elliptical opening. This leaves behind a large, wide, raw sur- face, for adhesion. Use torsion, and the application of turpen- tine for the bleeding points, and wait for the cessation of haemor- rhage. You next introduce metallic sutures by means of a tubular needle suitably curved, which is alternately inserted and "withdrawn until a proper number of sutures are placed in readi- ness to be secured. You then tie them, one by one, and by this