1260 REGIONAL SURGERY. on the living, but I have tested most of them on the dead sub- ject, and I feel satisfied that none of them gives such a perfect prostatic incision as the knife if properly used. In regard to the rectangular staff of Dr. Buchanan, I believe it to possess some decided advantages if used with, the ordinary lateral incision. Every one must admit that it is much easier to carry the knife along a straight director, such as that formed by the horizontal limb of the rectangular staff, than to make it follov? the curve of the ordinary staff; and if care be taken not to bulge forward the angle of the staff, so as to make it superficial, but to keep it held like the ordinary staff, the groove will be readily felt, and the knife run along it with great ease and certainty into the bladder, and without risk to the artery of the bulb, as I have repeatedly tested on the subject. Were I to make any change on the instruments I have been accustomed to use in operating on the living, I should be inclined to adopt the rectangular instead of the curved staff, but not to alter the line of the lateral incision. In referring to the mode of feeling for and inserting the knife into the groove of the staff", I have described the method usually followed ; but I very generally use the forefinger of my right hand, with the knife laid flat upon it, the back of the blade toward the left side, and the point not advanced to the pulp of the finger. (Fig. 5, plate liv.) With the knife so placed and protected, I pass the forefinger into the wound till I feel the groove of the staff in the membranous portion of the urethra, and then, when the pulp of the finger rests in contact with the groove, I project the point of the knife into it by a slight move- ment of the thumb, and at the same moment turn the finger laterally, as in Fig. 6, then withdraw my finger along the blade and handle, keeping the forefinger below the blunt part of the lower edge of the blade, so as to prevent the ;^^ibility of the point slipping out of the groove in taking the turn at the curve of the staff. The movements described are executed instan- taneously, and almost imperceptibly, and ensure the knife being easily inserted into and carried along the groove, especially in a