77?^^ TlifENT OF EXTRA VA SA TION. 1335 To evacuate the extravasated fluid and sloughs of cellular tissue destroyed by the action of the urine, you must make a free and deep incision in the middle line of the perineum, from behind the lowest part of the perineal swelling forwards to the root of the scrotum, and lateral incisions also in many cases. Incisions must also be made into the scrotum, coverings of the penis, and into the boggy swelling over the chord and abdomen. In a word, wherever the swelling indicates that the urine has infiltrated the tissues, there we must incise freely to permit it and the sloughs of gangrenous tissue to escape. The incision must be deep and long, so as to pass through the fascia, and any sloughing fascia or tissue should be pulled out or clipped away, as it is a source of irritation, and acts also as a mechanical barrier to the escape of the discharge. When acute oedema has supervened, it is especially necessary to be on your guard against being misled by the apparent depth of your incisions, or the escape of serous fluid. Through the long central incisions in the perineum you can introduce your finger and feel the bulb and other deep structures, if you have made the cut of sufficient depth. Punctures or small incisions, even if deep, are of no use. Part of the urine may escape in a fluid state, but the greater part is infiltrated into the cellular tissue, and incor- porated with it, and therefore free deep incisions are absolutely necessary for relieving this state of the parts. When the sloughs and fluids escape, and the swelling subsides, you will find what, in the tense state of parts, appeared formidable-looking incisions, become very moderate in their dimensions ; besides the absolute necessity for free apertures of exit, by pursuing this course we really save tissues which would otherwise infallibly slough and be lost. It is very seldom that any dangerous amount of bleeding follows the incision of the parts, but if any superficial vessels bleed smartly, it is necessary to tie them and cut off the ends ot the ligatures. The subsequent local treatment consists in apply- ing poultices with charcoal for some time, till the slougHs are fairly thrown off; afterwards, chlorinated-soda, and other lotions