EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. xxviii fascia is shown in relation to the reflexion of the ileo-vesical fascia, which is seen to be entire. The dark dotted line marks the upper line of the track of the incision; above that line the parts have been dissected to show the re- lation of the bulb and Cowper's gland to the incision. In the track of the wound the contour of the rectum is shown—the gut being somewhat distended with tow. Plate LVI. gives a view of the same parts in the child, and the letters of reference there given will serve to indicate the points in this plate. Fig. 2. The prostatic incision as seen from within after the extraction of the stone. In this instance the stone was considerably above the average size. These sketches are reduced to about two-thirds of the natural size. Fig. 3 shows the incision of the prostate after extraction of the stone, when all the fascial textures have been removed. This view was obtained by operating on the dead subject, an adult, and dissect- ing the fascia from off the gland. It shows that the texture of the gland splits up in the line of the incision under the action of the finger. Plate LVI.—To face Page 1261. Dissection of the parts in a child; this outline sketch is of the full natural size, and shows the high position of the bladder in the child. a a. Section of the pelvic bones ; 6, the portion of the penis and urethra ; c, the urinary bladder ; d, section of the soft tissues of the perineum and hip ; e, the track of the wound ; /, the prostate gland, showing the opening made in it, and in the membranous portion of the urethra ; h h, the rectum : the general course of that intestine can be traced, and a dark outline marks its position in relation to the wound made in lateral lithotomy. PUNCTURE OF BLADDER—IMPERFORATE ANUS.— Plate LVIL—Page 1330. Method of opening the membranous part of the urethra described at page 1331. The forefinger of the left hand is seen projecting the anterior wall of the rectum, and so as to feel the anterior part of the prostate, and the knife is being entered into the membran- ous urethra just in front of the finger of the left hand. The line marked A indicates the point for puncturing the bladder from the rectum. B indicates the line and point for punctiiring from above the pubes. Operation of puncturing the bladder from the rectum, as described at pages 1329 and 1330. Operation for imperforate anus. See page 1398