CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1415 and stretched to the utmost by the distended portion of the coecum, had come to form a cord-like constriction upon it, re- quiring division before the bowel could be returned. As to the plan to be adopted in such cases of femoral hernia, requiring such free incisions to relieve the bowel, I can only say that, after much consideration of this case, I would still proceed to divide the superimposed textures by the same method—viz., by dissecting cautiously through the lower division of the tendon of the external oblique, and the other textures, down to the peri- toneum, in a line corresponding to the centre of the femoral ring, the cord being drawn aside. Thus aU danger of wounding the artery accidentally is avoided, and if it be found itself constrict- ing the swelling, it will not be found very difliciilt to bring it into view and put ligatures upon it. This plan is that which Sir Astley Cooper recommended as safest and best in all cases of large femoral hernia; and although I cannot think, after some experience in femoral hernise, that it is either necessary or advisable as a general plan, it will be found the safest in complicated cases requiring more than usually extensive incisions ; it is, in fact, a cautious dis- section down upon the upper part of the sac, or the parietal peritoneum immediately above and continuous with it, and if carefully conducted, is attended neither with difficulty nor danger. IV.—Group of Cases of Hernia. (From Clinical Eeport for 1860-1.) 1. Mary Stark, set. 43. A femoral hernia first came down ten days previous to admission. Taxis twice applied by her medical attendant ; bowels bad not been opened up to the date of her admission into hospital, when she was suffering from well-marked symptoms of strangulated femoral hernia. The operation was immediately performed, and the bowel was found perfectly black, with greyish patches, and had a distinctly gangrenous odour. The constriction being divided, the bowel was not returned into the abdominal cavity. An opiate was administered, and a poultice applied to the wound. Ordered calomel and opivmi pills every fourth hour. Bowels opened next day. Patient died on the third day after admission. 2. Janet Dalziel, set. 71. Strangulated femoral hernia. Symptoms existed for five days. Sac opened. Bowel returned. Cured.