REGIONAL SURGERY. 1332 There are two forms in which it may arise. One ahnost instantaneous in its occurrence, rapid in its destructive effects, and attended with very marked local and constitutional symptoms. The other, preceded by the formation of deep abscess in the perineum, and only supervening as a consequence of that having been neglected, and hence its progress and symptoms are different from those of the former, and perhaps not attended with so much, certainly not with such immediate, danger. I shall first describe the condition in which the urine escapes, and is rapidly extravasated into the tissues. This usually occurs in cases of tight indurated strictures. In such instances there are always pathological changes, tending to ulceration of the urethra behind the stricture, resulting from long-continued irritation, and the pressure of the urine from behind over-distending the canal immediately on the vesical aspect of the contraction ; and in cases of retention under such conditions, unsuccessful at- tempts to introduce catheters may also tear and still further weaken the walls of the urethra. Under such circumstances the patient, straining with great force to empty the over-dis- tended bladder, feels something give way, and experiencing the relief of the bladder evacuating its contents, thinks he is making water, but seeing none coming by the natural passage, he becomes alarmed, especially when he finds a sudden swelling between his thighs, and distension of the scrotum and penis. The urethra has yielded in the perineum behind the stricture. The mo- mentary relief is soon followed by an intense burning sensation in the perineum, and medical aid is procured. If the surgeon sees the patient immediately after the occurrence of the extravasation, he finds the scrotum and coverings of the penis swollen and tense, and the anterior part of the perineum occupied by a tense prominent swell- ing, at first sharply defined. This perineal swelling is con- tinuous in front with that of the scrotum ; posteriorly, in the middle of the perineum, it passes no farther back than about three-fourths of an inch from the anus; but laterally