CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1405 tunica vaginalis, unaltered in structure, would be more easily recognised, and where, from the relative position of the testicle, further assistance in diagnosis might be gained. Indeed, I confess, that the only thing which decided my action in this case, was the practical consideration, that what- ever the thick fleshy substance surrounding the intestine might be, it was evidently strangulating it, and therefore equally evident that its constrict- ing edges must be divided to relieve the strangulation. We now consider those points in the case which may assist us in our diagnosis, and regulate our operative measures in similar cases. The dia- gnostic marks of most value, were those derived from examination of the swelling, and the feeling of it when trying to reduce it by taxis; for, although it presented at first sight the usual uniform appearance of a large scrotal hernia, yet a small " hard lump" could be felt at its lower part, distinct from the rest, and on attempting reduction, all the contents of the sac could be returned, except this " lump," which the patient, who had hitherto been in the habit of reducing the swelling himself, at once stated he had never felt there before. Attention to these points, connecting them with the history of the case already mentioned under the former head, when speaking of the position and peculiarities of the stricture on the sac, would I think lead the surgeon to discover the true character of the case, before proceeding to operate ; and then the question arises. How should such knowledge modify our plan of operation ? Should we cut down upon the small swelling at the lower part of the scrotum, divide the constricted part of the sac, and reduce the bowel, without interfering with the upper division of the sac at all ? I do not think this would be a very judicious plan ; for, in the first place, the lower part of the scrotum is not the most favourable place for incisions ; and, further, we may have obstacles to the reduction of the hernia situated higher up, and if we require to divide them also, then our incision would extend through nearly the whole length of the scrotum, up to the inguinal ring, a thing always to be avoided. I shoidd, for my own part, if I altered my mode at all, in a similar case, reduce as much as possible of the hernia, before proceeding to the operation, and this would bring the irreducible portion, or smaller division of the sac, up towards the inguinal region and upper part of the scrotum, and then the incisions might be made in the usual manner ; only we must recollect that the contents of the larger or superior division of the sac having been reduced, the smaller or lower portion would necessarily become invaginated within it, so that more than one layer of serous membrance would be divided before the strangulated intestine would be exposed. Case II.—Scrotal Hernia, apparently reduced by Taxis. Small Hernial Tumour felt at Upper Part of Canal ; Operation; Death. Mr. C, eet. 85, was seized with the symptoms of strangulated hernia on the 23d December 1853. He was seen by Dr. Cruickshank of North Berwick, who found a large scrotal hernia which the patient stated he had had for upwards of twenty years, but that it had never troubled him, as he could always reduce it. Dr. C. returned the tumour apparently by the