1^ 1006 REGIONAL SURGERY. of the gland before removing tlie tumonr. In the case of the young girl, from wliom the sketch in Plate xlvii. is taken, I found the tumour so apparently defined, that I dissected it out; but, in reality, the texture of the thyroid, although somewhat con- densed, had been cut, and I had to twist and tie a number of bleeding points out of all proportion to the size of the cut sur- face. In operating on a similar case in an adult female, I trans- fixed and deligated the substance of the thyroid before removing the tumour, and there was no trouble in securing vessels. The Treatment of cystic bronchocele will depend on whether it be a single or multilocular cystic tumour: in the former case we merely require to tap the cyst, and inject tincture of iodine, to cause its obliteration and cure. In some very large cysts we require to make an opening and counter-opening to evacuate the cyst fully, and then with a large camel-hair pencil paint the interior with tincture of iodine. In making counter-openings in such cases we require to use due caution, as the cyst underlies the sterno-mastoid, and its pressure may have displaced important parts towards the surface; but if we make a cautious examination before puncturing the cyst there is no danger. If the cyst contain dark-brown fluid, showing it to be a hsematocele, and if the contents be homogeneous, the same treatment as for simple hydrocele will be sufficient; but if there be clots, or, if after the fluid has been removed, the bulk of the cyst is not much diminished, the aperture made by the ti'ocar should be enlarged, so as to admit the finger, and if it be filled with coagula, the incision should be still further enlarged, the clots turned out, and the interior painted with iodine, or with tincture of matico if there is any oozing of blood. In operating on a case of this kind on one occasion, after turning out the coagula, there was no oozing of blood at the time, but shortly afterwards smart oozing occurred, and I re- quired to stuff the cavity vs^ith lint, dipped in a weak solution of perchloride of iron, to arrest it. Bleeding recurred about ten days afterwards, but was easily arrested by cold, and the girl made a good recovery ; but I have known a case in which im-