REGIONAL SURGERY. 1376 adhesive plaster, by which they are closely attached to the skin. After the incisions have been made, and the superficial vessels secured, a piece of carbolised muslin, of a similar size, with a simple slit in the centre, is placed over the india-rubber, and over the part of the abdomen left unprotected by the centre opening in it. The edges of the muslin slit are then attached by acupressure needles to the edges of the wound, and the muslin spread out ready to receive the empty cyst. Thus the maximum of cleanliness and the minimum of exposure are attained, and ovariotomy is rendered one of the most delicate, as it is, in suitable cases, one of the simplest operations. Having arranged your assistants—one to give chloroform, a second to apply pressure on the abdomen as the cyst is removed, a third to manage the trocar and tube and support the cyst— you should stand on the right side of the patient, and make an incision about four and a half inches in length over the linea alba, beginning two inches below the umbilicus, and extending towards the pubes. Make your way very carefully through the skin, fat, cellular tissue, and peritoneum, making use of a director for each successive step, and securing the smallest bleeding points as you proceed. Having reached the serous cavity, you use the finger for exploration, in order to ascertain the existence or non-existence of adhesions. These having been disposed of, you gently bring the cyst into view and proceed to tap it, by means of a trocar and long tube devised for the purpose. The cyst is then gently withdrawn from the abdomen, the pedicle secured by clamp or ligature, and cut through externally to either. ' Before closing the wound the opposite ovary should be carefully examined, and any rudimentary cyst either tapped or removed. Every bleeding point must be looked for and attended to. The sutures used for closing the wound must embrace the whole thickness of the cut structures including the peritoneum. In cases where adhesions exist between the cyst and parietal peritoneum, or between it and any of the viscera, the operation becomes much more complicated, and great care is required in breaking up the adhesions or in separating them by the knife