CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 10G9 So far as I could judge from this brief account of Mr. Liston's case, it seemed a growth developed in the substance of the mas- toid, surrounded by the fascial sheath of the muscle ; and, if so, differing very much from the enormous and irregular tumour I had to deal with. The cases recorded by Bell and Warren, though not successful in complete removal of the tumours, pos- sessed this element of encouragement, that, whilst the failure depended on the character of the growth being unsuitable for any operation, they showed how much coidd be effected even under unfavourable circumstances, and so led me to infer that if the character of the growth were suitable, the difficulty of the operation need not be an obstacle to its performance. In determining the propriety of operative interference in Mrs Jepson's case, it seemed to me that the points principally to be considered were :—1st. The character of the tumour ; whether simple or malignant ? 2d. The probable result, if the growth were left to itself ? 3d. How far its enormous size, anatomical relations, and possible connections with vitally important parts, might endanger life, or prevent its complete removal ? Correct diagnosis as to the character of the growth is most important in deciding on the question of operation in all cases of tumour, as involvmg the probability of future immunity from the recurrence of the disease. But in the case of large tumours in the vicinity of important organs, it is also important as to the question of immediate danger to life in the operation. In my surgical lectures I have always dwelt upon the limitation of simple, as compared with malignant tumours, as a principle of great practical value. In simple growths, important organs— such as great vessels and nerves—may be pressed upon, pushed aside, or even surrounded by the tumour or its lobules ; but the Infirmary for 1834, the report of a case of large cervical tumour, operated on by Mr. Listen. The tumour, which occupied nearly the same position as the cervical portion of my patient's tumour, had grown rapidly in ahout two years. In this case Mr. Liston found it impossible to remove the whole growth by the knife, and the part near the vertebrae was strangulated by ligatures passed through its base. The patient recovered at the time.—J. S.