1081 CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. explored by the finger, when a convexity of the left side was discovered, so considerable as materially to diminish its calibre. A piece of gum-elastic tubing of large bore was now passed down beyond the obstruction, and its introduction was followed by instant relief to the patient. Next daj^, Mr. Spence examined the tumour by passing his finger through the wound, and, detecting fluctuation, made an opening at that point, when a large quantity of clear fluid was evacuated. He next made a counter-opening by cutting down on the point of his finger, passed downwards and to the right side, through the opening made from the tracheotomy wound. The finger was now passed through tlie second opening downwards, behind the left sterno-clavicular articulation, but failed to reach the bottom of the cyst. After the evacuation of the fluid, the patient could breathe quite freely through an ordinary tracheotomy tube, which had been substituted for the gum-elastic one. On the following day, symptoms of acute pyaemia set in, and the patient died on the evening of the 15th. On post- mortem examination, numerous metastatic abscesses were found in the lungs and liver. E. F., set. 27.—Hematocele of the Thyroid Gland, of five years' standing. This tumour, which was tense and elastic as if containing fluid, although of very considerable size, caused no inconvenience to the patient, who applied for surgical interference merely to be rid of the deformity. On puncture by a trocar and canula, a quantity of bloody serum was eva- cuated ; but as little subsidence of the swelling followed, a free incision was made into the cyst, which was found filled with clots of blood. These were turned out by the finger, and the cavity stuff'ed with lint. Suppuration and granulation of the cavity followed, and some thickening which remained yielded to blistering and painting with iodine. A. J., ffit. 11 years, came to the hospital on the 10th of June, with a tense elastic tumour occupying the supra-sternal hollow at the root of the neck, and extending upwards to the isthmus of the thyroid gland. This, first noticed about two months befjre, when it was of small size and caused little uneasiness, had increased considerably of late, and was now materially interfering with respiration, from its pressure on tlie tracliea. Tlie voice was considerably affected, the respiration was stridu- lous, and at intervals there occurred paroxysms of dyspnoea, threatening suffocation. After two days' observation, as the patient's symptoms became more severe, Mr. Spence made a longitudinal incision through tlie integuments in the middle line of the neck, and carefully dissected down to the tumour, which proved to be an abscess in the midst of the thyroid gland tissue, extending downwards and backwards behind the manubrium. Evacuation of the matter gave immediate relief to the patient, who left the hospital well a few days after. Tracheotomy for Eemoval of Foreign Bodies. Case I.—On the morning of Thursday the 23d of Sejjtember 1841, I was sent for in great haste to see a child, who, according to the statement of the messenger, " was suffocating from something sticking in the throat."