FOREIGN BODIES IN LARYNX. 1017 enlarge the opening so as to enable us to use instruments for its extraction. Instead of using forceps, as was formerly done, for the purpose of holding aside the edges of the wound in performing tracheo- tomy, I use the flat ivory handle of the scalpel to separate the edges, and so afford a smooth surface to allow the foreign body to escape. Another point, and one about which little or nothing is said in surgical works, is the after-treatment of the wound in such cases of tracheotomy. We should not treat the wound with the view of closing it immediately, for if we bring the edges toge- ther by plaster or by sutures, the patient might be suffocated in a very few hours. The air, in such circumstances, would escape from the opening in the trachea into the loose cellular tissue of the neck, and as it would be unable to make its exit by the superficial wound, emphysema of the neck would come on, and might cause the patient's death by suffocation. In all cases, there- fore, after the extraction of a foreign body, we should introduce a tracheotomy-tube into the trachea, and keep it there for from four to six hours, tiH tymph be effused and the wound become glazed. Not till then should the tube be withdrawn, and even then it is safer not to close the wound by sutures, but merely by slips of plaster, or it should be left to heal by secondary union. There are other methods which have been proposed for causing the ejection of loose foreign bodies. When an individual, for example, in pretending to swallow a coin and bring it up again, allows it to get into the air-passages, it may sometimes be made to fall out if the patient be inverted and shaken ; but in doing this we must always be ready to perform tracheotomy at the time. If the coin be a pretty large one, such as a shil- ling, it may be made to fall out by inverting and shaking the patient, because such a coin could scarcely go down into the larynx; but with a smaller coin, or such a body as a cherry-stone, the danger is greater, for smaller bodies are likely to pass lower down. When the patient is first seen, a body of this kind may be lying in the trachea or bronchus, where, as already explained, it may be producing little or no irritation;