1383 HEMORRHOIDS. the cutaneous variety is placed on the outer side of the sphincter, while the purple and vascular haemorrhoids arise from the inner side of that muscle. Thus, they are naturally classified into the two subdivisions of External and Internal. The former are generally dependent for their formation upon the pre-existence of the latter, and these, therefore, have the first claim upon our attention. Internal piles originally consist essentially of a varicose condition of the hsemorrhoidal veins, arising from sedentary habits, constipation, pregnancy, or indeed any cause which retards the return of venous blood towards the heart, but more espe- cially any affection of the liver or abdominal viscera obstructing the Portal circulation. Under such circumstances the hsemor- rhoidal veins distend, and carry before them the loose mucous membrane at the lower part of the rectum, where they bulge out and form a tumour, in some cases almost like a prolapsus ani (Plate li. Fig. 4). As the disease progresses, the submucous tissue becomes thickened and altered in structure, the arteries supplying the mucous membrane become enlarged, and a sepa- rate and distinct growth is established, having special nutrient arteries. Still the disease remains dependent, in a great measure, on the venous dilatation, so that the pain and distension are relieved either by the bleeding of the pile itself or by the admi- nistration of such internal remedies as tend to relieve the con- gestion of the rectum. This congestion, however, will only be relieved by internal remedies to a certain extent, for the textures partake of their original hsemorrhoidal structure only to a limited degree. The remainder of the mass presents an altered condi- tion of texture, nourished by a persistent vascular supply. Thus, we often find an artery ramifying upon the surface of an ulcer- ated pile, and the patient suffering from loss of arterial blood caused by ulceration of that surface. Hence the anaemia which often accompanies the disease, hence also the numerous cases of mistaken diagnosis, as the emaciation, palpitation, and dyspepsia, pnd other constitutional symptoms, closely resemble those arising from disease of the heart. In all cases, therefore, where these