STONE IN THE BLADDER. 1219 indeed, even frequent injection of the bladder with simple tepid water is not very safe. A time may come when medical therapeutics may achieve a triumphant solution at once of this difficult problem and of the stone; meanwhile, it is to the surgeon that the patient afifiicted with stone in the bladder must look for aid and permanent relief. In considering this important disease and its treatment, however, the surgeon must not limit himself to the mere local condition, and the methods of operating necessary for its cure. He must equally with the physician examine into the probable causes of the origin of the disease, both as a subject of patho- logical interest and as indicative in many cases of constitutional tendencies, requiring his attention either before or after his operations, and in deciding him as to the plan of operation he may adopt. But this is not the proper place to enter on the chemical composition and tests for the different forms of urinary calculi; nor, except incidentally and in the briefest manner, can I enter on the physiological conditions which, under certain cir- cumstances, may lead to the formation of stone. The formation of urinary calculi is now generally admitted to depend on some derangement of the primary or secondary digestion—a portion of the products of digestion being deposited in the kidney or bladder in the form of urates, phosphates, or oxalates. The disease seems to be endemic in some localities and is sometimes referred to the nature of the water drunk by the patients. In the neighbourhood of limestone, for example, there is a tendency to earthy deposits in the urine, either directly, or more usually owing to derangement of the digestion, leading secondarily to the formation of calcareous deposit. In Great Britain, calculous disease is very frequent in Norfolk and in the north and north-east of Scotland, while in other districts it is comparatively rare, though occasionally met with every- where. In India it is exceedingly common, especially in the north-west upper provinces of Bengal. In the Madras Presidency it is not so frequent, and yet there the operation has been long practised by the natives. In those departments of this country