DIAGNOSIS OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 1201 The superficial inguino-pudic and epigastric arteries and veins are stretched over the hernia as it ascends. This hernia, there- fore, whilst it will present all the usual symptoms absolutely diagnostic of hernia in general, requires great care on the part of the surgeon to distinguish between it and other swellings occupy- ing the same or nearly the same position. The difficulty in dia- gnosis will be increased if the swelling be of small size, or if the protrusion be largely composed of omentum, for in these circum- stances the important diagnostic of direct impulse on coughing is often very imperfect, even when the hernia is not constricted. In a tightly-constricted hernia there is no direct impulse, as I have already pointed out. The diseases in the inguino-femoral region, which may be mistaken for femoral hernia, are, enlarged and partially sup- purating glands, chronic abscess of the iliac fossa pointing or projecting at the femoral ring and taking the same position as the hernial protrusion, varicose dilatation of the femoral vein, cystic and fatty tumours, and psoas abscess. Besides these distinct diseases the surgeon requires to diagnose this hernia when it is reflected on the abdomen, from a small oblique inguinal hernia. As one or more of the inguinal glands lie directly over that portion of the cribriform fascia which a femoral hernia pushes before it, you will easily understand how closely such an inflamed and swollen gland may simulate this hernia ; indeed, as I have seen, you may have both conditions present, and on cutting through the suppurating gland you may expose a small hernial sac, but in such cases the general symptoms will so far guide your practice. If the bowels act freely under the use of castor-oil or other gentle purgative, and there be no vomiting, and merely the tender swelling, and the skin not easily movable over the tumour, the diagnosis is, that it is an inflamed gland. If, moreover, you detect any cause of local irritation likely to lead to such glandular swelling, and if the tumour, at first comparatively small and hard, gradually becomes larger and soft, or fluctuating, with red adherent skin, and general feverish symptoms, this diagnosis is strengthened. But if the