1129 WOUNDS OF ABDOMEN. but not injuring very materially the fascia transversalis, and not penetrating tlie peritoneum. This is strictly a non-penetrating wound. If the fibres be divided more or less transversely, they yield; the action of the diaphragm, and other muscles of the abdomen compress the viscera, they are forced towards the weakest point, and a traumatic hernia occurs. The peritoneum, with a portion of the bowel, is projected through the opening ; and lience, although the wound be non-penetrating, there are special dangers attending it connected with the locality in which it occurs. In all such cases, when the wound divides a considerable thickness of the abdominal parietes, we should take means to support that point by a pad and bandage until union has occurred, not only superficially, but at the deep part. After operations, as for ligature of the external and common iliac arteries, the parietes must be weakened ; but this cannot be avoided, and we therefore take means to support the weak point, and prevent the risk of a hernia occurring, by appropriate dressing. The great risk, however, in abdominal wounds is pene- tration into the cavity of the abdomen, and lesion of some of the contained viscera. Here, as in the chest, we should not be too anxious to make a correct diagnosis at first, by probing, for we may safely trust to the indications which wiH be given if any lesion of the abdominal organs has occurred. We must be very careful, however, in forming an opinion as to what part of the viscera may have been wounded, for the viscera of the abdomen are subject to great changes in their position, according to their degree of distension. I have seen a wound about midway between the lowest rib on the right side and the umbi- licus, where the stomach was injured, which could not happen in ordinary conditions. The wound, however, was received shortly after dinner, when the stomach was fully distended. In a few hours vomiting of blood came on to a considerable extent, and the man died within twelve hours in great agony from acute peritonitis. In this case the distension of the stomach explains the reception of a wound in so unlikely a position. In small punctured wounds we cannot be sure what part is injured.