REGIONAL SURGERY. 1296 of entangling the point of the catheter. Where the iirethra opens in the glans penis, it is contracted and compressed later- ally. The calibre of the canal at the orifice is even smaller than where it passes through the triangular ligament, so that it may serve as a gauge for the size of instrument Vi^hich should pass easily along the rest of the canal, unless there be some abnormal cause of obstruction. To ascertain the exact measure- ments of length of the different portions of the canal to which I have alluded, the plan adopted—as combining the advantage of anatomical precision while at the same time the relations are main- tained exactly as during life—was the following : The prepuce being well drawn forwards over the glans penis, two harelip needles are thrust through it near its orifice, and behind the needles a strong waxed ligature is firmly tied so as completely to constrict the prepuce in front of the glans joeuis. The bladder and urethra are then to be moderately distended with alcohol, injected slowly by the ureter. After the textures have by this means been hardened, a careful section of the bladder and urethra can be made without disturbing the natural relations or curvature of the canal, and thus not only may correct measurements of the whole length be obtained, but the definite length of the spongy, membranous, and prostatic portions, their relations to each other and to surrounding parts, together with their depth from the surface of the perinaeum, can be accurately determined. I have made many such sections, and have taken casts from them. In very fresh, firm subjects, the section, as far as regards the urethra, can be well enough made without hardening with alcohol. We may here subjoin the results of the measurements so taken. These were taken by means of a piece of thin waxed cord laid along the canal, and following its curve. I. Measurements of urethra ; parts in natural condition, penis resting on right groin. Total length of urethra from meatus iirmarius externus to anterior border of uvula vesicse, 7 inches lines, or almost 8 inches. Spongy portion.—From meatus externus to commencement of mem-