1319 HOLT'S METHOD. make a false passage for themselves, and which, even if they do pass into or destroy the contraction, only aggravate its condition ultimately, and predispose to abscesses in the neighbouring parts and disease of other organs. Holt's Method of Immediate Dilatation, or rupture of the contraction, is the method of treatment which I consider most suitable for the treatment of tight firm strictures. If the kidneys and prostate gland are not affected by disease, this plan of treat- ment is, I believe, nearly, if not quite, as safe as that of gradual dilatation, and I should always advise its employment in cases where the contraction returns quickly after dilatation; foralthougli I do not believe that any method of treatment will absolutely preclude the return of the contraction, or that it is ever safe to neglect the occasional use of a bougie to maintain the patency of the canal, still the tendency to relapse seems less after Holt's method than after simple dilatation. I was at first much prejudiced against this plan, owing to what I had seen of the effects produced by the forcible dilatation with the conical sound. In cases where that in- strument had been used, I had noticed that an irritable and resilient state of the contraction was the almost invariable result. From some opportunities I had of examining stric- tures dilated by this method, on the dead body, I found the mucous membrane at and. on either side of the stricture fissured, and I considered this condition so similar to that of fissure of the rectum, that the intense irritability seemed to me referable to this fissured condition of the mucous mem- brane. Hence the immediate dilatation, by Mr. Holt's method, seemed to me as likely to lead to the same disagreeable results ; but, after trying it in some cases, and having had an opportunity of examining a stricture which had been treated by his method, I found there was a difference between its action and that of the conical bougie. I saw that by his plan the stricture was fairly ruptured, not only through the mucous membrane, but through the condensed submucous tissue forming the contraction.