1160 REGIONAL SURGERY. position as possible for the taxis. Muscular fibres never form a complete constriction in hernia, but they may give rise to some congestion by pressing on the tumour, and hence we relax all muscular fibres as far as possible by placing the patient in certain positions ; so also with all tense fascial margins. Thus, in inguinal hernia, we generally bend the body forwards and raise the lower limbs, so as to relax the anterior abdominal muscles, and get over certain obstacles to the reduction. In femoral hernia, again, we turn the thigh inwards, and flex it slightly upon the pelvis, so as to relax the falciform edge of the fascia. These are examples of the position in which the patient should be placed for the taxis. Formerly, the warm bath, tobacco enemata, bleeding, and simple distending enemata, were used as adjuvants to the taxis. Now, the only thing done is to give an enema to clear out the lower part of the bowel, and also to excite the peristaltic action of the intestine above, thereby giving a chance of the hernia being drawn backwards into the abdomen. The use of tobacco enemata and bleeding are quite unnecessary since the introduction of chloroform, which is both a safer and more effectual relaxant of the muscles. If it be true, as I believe, that the real constriction in hernia is always formed by aponeurotic or fascial texture, then we can- not expect very much good from relaxation of muscles in tightly- incarcerated hernias; but we prevent the violent action of the diaphragm and of the abdominal muscles, while we also prevent the patient's straining against us. The enema should be given in very large quantity, to distend the lower portion of the intestines thoroughly, and excite them to peristaltic action. We should apply cold to the tumour, either by means of the ether spray, or by ether dropped on the part, which should be fanned, or what is still better, place some ice in a bag over the tumour for a short time. Cold should only be used in cases of recent hernia, and should not be continued long, and never when there is any suspicion of gangrene. The cold is beneficial in two ways; generally there have been attempts made both by the patient and by the surgeon to reduce the gut, and these give rise to a