POSITION OF THE PATIENT—INSTRUMENTS. 1253 as shown in Fig. 1 of the same plate. This garter is fastened as followsthe wrist is passed through the loop, which is then tightened; the assistants bend up the leg, and draw down the arm till the wrist is opposite the centre of the foot. The free ends of the garter are then passed one over the dorsum and the other under the sole, and tied firmly on the inside of the foot. If this be properly done and firmly secured, it will be found quite sufficient. The knees are then separated, and the limbs and pelvis maintained in the proper position by two assistants, one on each side. Special attention should be had that the pelvis is placed even, and the breech projecting over the edge of the table. As a general rule, it is advisable that the staff should be introduced before the limbs are tied up. The instruments required will vary somewhat according to the method to be adopted, or any modification of the operation. In general terms, however, the apparatus required is a grooved staff; a sharp-pointed lithotomy knife; a probe-pointed knife for enlarging the deep incision, should that be required ; different forms of lithotomy forceps and scoops for the extraction of the stone ; and a gum-elastic tube, to be kept in the bladder after the operation. Besides these instruments, there should always be at hand a Eeade's injection syringe, or other injecting apparatus, with tubes, for injecting water into the bladder previously to operating, or for washing out the bladder should the stone break during extraction ; and of course the ordinary apparatus of artery forceps, ligatures, etc. When lithotomy was first performed, it was done without any reference to anatomy. All that the operators thought of in those days was to get out the stone by the easiest and most direct method. In the earliest or Celsian method, the surgeon introduced his fingers into the rectum and tried to grasp the stone and press it into the perineum till it formed a projection there. He then cut down upon the swelling in the perineum till his knife grated on the stone, and removed it either by tilting it out from behind by his fingers in the rectum, or by means of hook or