CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1427 The above instance of this rare affection is the second * which Mr. Spence has met with in his practice. Tlie fatal result must, unfortunately, be attributed to the false passage in the prostate and distension of the bladder giving rise to general inflammation of the urinary organs, and apparently to suppuration of the cyst : for it is probable that, had the urinary organs been in a quiescent state, simple puncture of the cyst would not have in- duced suppuration ; and, had it done so, the chances of a favourable result would, notwithstanding, have been infinitely greater than they otherwise were. Case of Hydatid Cyst between the Bladder and Rectum. (From Clinical Report, 1862-3.) J. F., set. 55, a native of Yorkshire, was admitted August 23, suffering from retention of urine, to fits of which he had been liable for the previous eight months. On this occasion, several unsuccessful attempts had been made to relieve him before sending him to Mr. Spence, who, on examina- tion per rectimi, detected a large fluctuating cyst in the recto-vesical space, and as the curvature of the urethra was thus increased, he selected a pros- tatic catheter, and introduced it without much difliculty. A large quantity of water was drawn ofl', but the cyst, which at first was thought to be a dilated portion of the bladder, underwent no diminution in size. This proved its independent origin, and as the man was in apparently good health, and had never suffered from inflammatory symptoms in the pelvis, and as there was an indistinct feeling of a tumour deep in the right hypo- chondrium, it was thought probable that this was an instance of a hydatid cyst in a very uncommon situation. The patient was kept under observa- tion, and the water regularly drawn off. At the end of a fortnight, the cyst was tapped by a curved trocar introduced per rectum. A consider- able quantity of clear fluid escaped, in which, both on ordinary visiial, and on microscopic examination, numerous hydatids were detected. The discharge from the rectum continued for a few days and then ceased. The cyst refilled, but while the patient was making efforts at stool, it burst ; the fluid was again submitted to the microscope, and was found to contain the shreds of broken down acephalocysts. For a short time discharge con- tinued to be passed of a purulent character, but this gradually diminished, and ultimately disappeared, leaving only a degree of hardness in the posi- tion formerly occupied by the cyst. At the date of dismissal (10th October), the deep-seated swelling in the hypochondrium had become much more perceptible to the touch. It could then be defined as a small tumour, about the size of an orange. On his returning about a month afterwards, it had attained the size of a melon, and on his again presenting himself, at the end of two months, it filled nearly the whole of one-half of the abdomen.t * This is a mistake. The other case was that of hydatid cyst, which follows, f I learned some years ago that this ultimately burst into the bowel, and the patient, when I heard of him last, was quite well.