1023 LARYNGITIS. the mere meclianical obstruction lias progressed so far as to warrant the performance of an operation. In most cases, then, we have, superadded to the inflammatory swelling, the irritation and danger produced by such spasms. During the earlier stages of laryngitis in adults, and of croup in children, a good deal can be done, by active Medical Treatment, to avert or postpone these misfortunes. General depletion will often mitigate the severity of the symptoms to a very great extent, relieving not only the local congestion, but rendering the respiration much more free by its power- ful antispasmodic effects. In cases of croup, blood-letting is best accomplished by opening the external jugular vein. The use of the vapour, hot-air, or warm-water bath, is also very beneficial. A good plan, both for adults and children, is to manufacture a sort of vapour bath, by rolling \ip heated bricks, in blankets which have been wrung out of hot water, for the steam and heat so produced will make vapour form in the room or bed, and cause the patient to perspire very freely. The breathing will thus in many cases be greatly relieved. The use of other remedies also, such as mercurials, to prevent deposi- tion or cause absorption of the lymph, acts beneficially. To allay the irritation which causes the spasms, we may give opiates cautiously, along witli antimony. Sinapisms also may be applied on the chest or between the shoulders, or a blister well down upon the chest; but never apply a blister in front of the neck in such cases, as it will do no good; and if tracheo- tomy is required afterwards, it will have to be done under much less favourable circumstances. An excellent plan of treatment, in most cases, is to steam the room or bed by some such means as those already described, and to keep sponges, wrung out of hot water, constantly applied over the larynx, administering internally at the same time full doses of ipecacuanha wine, so as to keep up a degree of constant nausea. If all these means fail, we must then adopt Surgical Treat- ment, properly so called. In acute laryngitis, where the suf- focating paroxysms are becoming more constant ; when the