OBSTRUCTION OF THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. 997 sated tnucus. In these conditions, catheterisni of the tube would be more likely to excite irritation, and lead to organic change in structure, and so do harm rather than good. These causes of obstruction are more benefited by the inhalation of vapour, either of simple warm water, or medicated with iodine, and sub- sequently the free use of astringent gargles. Organic stricture of the tube is the only condition where catheterisni is of benefit, and that must be a very rare condition indeed in a short mucous canal so situated as is the eustachian tube. In cases of obstruc- tion from ulcerations of the neighbouring parts, causing contrac- tion or obliteration of the orifice of the tube, it is needless to say that catheterisni would neither be applicable nor possible. As regards the introduction of the eustachian probe, or catheter, for purposes of diagnosis, that is easily enough managed after a little practice. The instrument is made with the requisite curve, and with a flat fixed handle. The point should be very slightly bent, and the handle marked so as to indicate the direction of the point, and the distance from the orifice of the nostril to its ex- tremity should also be calculated and marked. The instrument is passed flat along the floor of the nostril to the requisite extent; the point should be directed upwards and outwards, whilst the handle is carried towards the septum of the nostrils. These movements must be performed without any force. If effected gently, and used only for the purpose of diagnosis, no harm can result from catheterisni; but if used on the pretext of dilating the tube, or to enable the aurist to use the air-douche or to inject medicated lotions, I hold such treatment to be not only useless but dangerous. The membrane of the tympanum is often destroyed by ulceration, or ill-directed attempts to remove foreign bodies from the ear, and in consequence the hearing is lost, or at least much impaired. In such cases, when the acute action has ceased, and the ulceration is arrested, great benefit will be derived from the ■use of the artificial membrana tympani, originally devised by the late Mr. Toynbee. It consists of a small circle of membrane composed of very thin sheet caoutchouc, attached in the centre