CONTENTS. LECTURE CXXV. Puncture of the Bladder for Eetention of LTrine in cases of Stricture—Punctm'e by the Eectum : by Incision from the Perineum—Extravasation of Urine—Symp toms of rapid Extravasation from yielding of the Urethra behind the Stric- tm-e—Treatment—Extravasation resulting from neglected Urinary Abscess— Fistula in Perineo—Different forms of Perineal Fistulae, and their Treatment —Retention of Urine and Catheterism in the Female . Pages 1329-1342 LECTURE CXXVI Urethritis — Gonorrhoea Virulenta : its Progressive Symptoms—Gleet — Retro- cedent Stage—Complications—Prostatitis and Irritable Bladder—Inflam- mation of the Testicle—Treatment of Gonorrhoea and Gleet—Gonorrhoea in the Female—Constitutional or Secondary Effects of Gonorrhoea Virulenta— Gonorrhoeal Ophthalmia—Gonorrhoeal Warts—Gonorrhoea PrseputiaHs 1343-1353 LECTURE CXXVIL Phymosis and Paraphymosis : Treatment—Orchitis or Inflamed Testicle : Treat- ment — Hydrocele : Diagnosis and Treatment; Operation — Hematocele : Difficulties in Diagnosis ; Treatment—Cirsocele and Varicocele ; Diagnosis and Treatment—Tumours of Testicle—Castration : Steps of the Operation, and points to be specially attended to . . . . 1354-1366 LECTURE CXXVIIL Syphilitic Hydro-Sarcocele : Dangers of Operation in such Cases — Scrofulous Testicle—Sinuses and Abscesses—Fungoid Scrofulous Testicle : its True Nature : Methods of Treatment—Irritable or Neuralgic Testicle—Elephanti- asis Scroti : Operations for its Removal—Soot-Wart, or Chimney-Sweep's Cancer : Treatment—Epithelioma of Prepuce and Penis—Amputation of the Penis—Diseases of Genito-Uriuai-y Organs in the Female—Ovarian Disease— Ovariotomy—-Vesico-Vaginal Fistula, and Operation for its Cure—Suture of the Female Perineum ...... 1367-1381 LECTURE CXXIX. Diseases of the Rectum—Haemorrhoids—External and Internal Piles : their Pathology : Constitutional Symptoms arising from Loss of Blood ; Treat- ment—Prolapsus Ani—Polypus of the Rectum—Anal Ulcers—Fissure of the Anus : Symptoms and Treatment—Anal Abscess—Fistula in Ano: Different Forms; Treatment—Stricture of the Rectum: Sim2ile and Malignant; Treatment—Amussat's Operation for Artificial Anus—Imperforate Anus Operations for that Condition . . . . . 1382-1401