1316 REGIONAL SURGERY. can diminish or obviate this symptom by the following method:— When using small instruments, where I consider it essential to pass them into the bladder, so soon as the flow of urine satisfies me that this has been effected, I withdraw the catheter from the bladder and prostatic portion of the urethra, and leave it in the stricture ; and when passing larger-sized bougies I merely pass them fairly through the stricture, and no farther. During the treatment by dilatation, the patient should avoid stimulants, and drink freely of diluents to allay the irritation of the bladder and urethra. When dilatation has been fully effected, he should be taught to pass an instrument, and advised to use it once a fortnight, to prevent any tendency to relapse ; and this should especially be insisted on in the case of patients going abroad, or to places where surgical aid cannot be obtained. At the same time, I regret to say such advice is seldom long attended to ; the patients, after a time, gradually forget their former suf- ferings, and neglect to use the instrument until some difficulty in passing water shows that the contraction has returned. There is another method of treatment, which used to be called vital dilatation by Dupuytren, and which has more recently been termed cross-tunnelling, but wliich I think very dangerous. It consists in introducing an instrument down to the stricture, and tying it in, with the point resting against the obstruction. The principle of this plan is founded on the assumption that the force of the urine on the proximal, and the pressure of the catheter or bougie on the distal side of the stricture, will cause absorption to take place, and that ultimately the stricture will yield. The progress used to be measured from day to day by the stem of the catheter. I have repeatedly seen instruments passed in bit by bit in this way, until they should have passed into the bladder, but on examination it was found that they had only dilated false passages. In treatment by dilatation, therefore, we should always try to get the instrument into the bladder, and carry out the dilatation as I have advised, for that is the only safe plan of effecting our object.