EXTRAVASATION OF URINE. 1331 he cuts freely, as if he were going to cut into the apex of the prostate. That gland forms a fixed point in front of which he cuts into the membranous part of the urethra (Plate Ivii. Fig. 1), and the urine then escapes. Afterwards, he either leaves in a lithotomy-tube, or introduces a catheter down to the obstruction in the perineum, cuts on its point, and passes it on to the blad- der, so as to re-establish the urethra. This may seem a difficult operation, but it is really not so. It is, I think, a much safer and better operation than punctiiring the bladder from the rectum, as it not only relieves the retention, but enables us to restore the natural passage at once. It can, however, only be required in cases where the continuity of the canal of the urethra has been destroyed by injury, and where, therefore, a catheter cannot be passed, or when the scrotum and penis are involved in a cancerous swelling. I have performed the operation several times under both of these conditions, and met with no difficulty. Extravasation of Ueine may occur from various causes, some of which, such as injuries of the urethra and bladder, have been already spoken of When the extravasation takes place in certain positions, as at the neck of the bladder within the pelvis, or when it escapes into the abdominal cavity, we have seen that the condition is one which does not admit of much being done for its relief It is different, however, with respect to extravasa- tion or infiltration of urine in the perineum. In that case we can do much to save life, and prevent, or at least diminish, the destruction of tissues, if only our interference be prompt and decided, and I therefore desire to draw your attention very specially to this subject. It is not a condition in which you can wait to have a consultation or obtain aid. To be of service you must act at once, and understand how to act, and the prin- ciples on which you proceed. I have said that extravasation may arise from injuries of the urethra and other causes; but in this position it most usually occurs in consequence of obstruction in the canai, and in connection with urethral stricture.