CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1423 I saw him on the morning of the 12th December, at Dr. Menzies's request. At that time the anxiolfs expression of his face, shrunk features, and sharp, irregular pulse, together with restlessness, frequent vomiting of greenish fluid, and hiccup, taken in connection with the history of his case, left no doubt on my mind that rujjture of the bladder had taken place. I introduced a No. 12 catheter easily; but as Dr. Menzies had shortly before drawn off his urine, there was very little in the bladder, and it was slightly bloody. As he suffered greatly from the distension of the bowels, another enema and a purgative by the mouth had been admin- istered ; and I recommended that, after the bowels had acted, the use of opiates should be commenced, and directed a sinapism to be applied over the epigastrium to relieve the vomiting. Next day I found him easier ; the bowels had acted freely, with complete relief to the pain and tym- panitis, so that he could bear pressure over any part of the belly. There was still small, quick pulse, the anxiety of countenance remained, and vomiting and hiccup continued, although much less frequent than before. The urine which had been drawn off was in large quantity, perfectly clear, and free from the slightest sediment or muddiuess. The opiates were ordered to be continued ; and he was directed to have a little wine, and some essence of beef for diet. On the 14th, I found he had passed a very restless night, and he seemed much weaker ; the pain, vomiting, and hiccup had diminished, but the expression of the face was very anxious. Tlie urine which had been drawn ofl' was copious in quantity, and quite clear. The treatment was continued, with the exception of a little brandy in place of wine, as the latter turned acid on his stomach. During the 15th he became rapidly worse, the vomiting and hiccup recurred with increased intensity, and he gradually sank, and died at half-past seven p.m. of that day. Post-mortem Examination.—On opening the abdomen, the large intes- tine was found contracted, the small intestines and omentum were rather more congested than naturally ; but the peritoneal surfaces presented the usual smooth, glistening appearance. Tliere was no marked vascularity either of the parietal or visceral peritoneum ; its surfaces seemed more bedewed with serous secretion tlian usual, although this did not amount to serous effusion. There were no adhesions, and only a very few minute flakes of lymph towards the epigastric region. On looking at the hypo- gastric region, the bladder was seen to be contracted (the urine having been drawn oft' shortly before the patient's death) ; and, on observing the- viscus as it lay in situ, it presented the apj)earance of a rent at the posterior aspect of its superior fundus, apparently not larger than half an inch in length, its peritoneal investment, as well as its proper coats, having given way ; the margins of the rent were in close contact, so that it looked like a mere fissure. A little turbid urinous fluid, and some folds of small intestine, occupied the inferior cul-de-sac of the peritoneum ; but no fluctuation or distension could be detected on examination by the finger in the rectum. On removing the bladder and examining it carefully, I found the rent of its coats to be much more extensive than it seemed to be when seen in position in the body, as it was now found to measure about two iilches in length, as seen in the preparation.