REGIONAL SURGERY. 1254 lever. This simple method was called " the operation of tlie gripe," or operation by the Apparatus Minor, and continued to be performed by some surgeons even till a comparatively recent period. In many cases this method of operating was successful, but in others quite the opposite. It was a very uncertain opera- tion ; for, whilst in some cases the parts divided to reach the stone might be those proper to be cut, in others the prostate might be completely divided, or the bladder cut above the pros- tate, or a portion of the rectum might be projected before the coats of the bladder, and a fsecal fistula result from its division. In truth, it was a mere matter of chance what parts were pro- jected before the stone. There must always have been great risk of infiltration of urine occurring after such an operation. (See woodcut at end of Lecture.) An Italian surgeon, Joannes de Eomanis, introduced a method of operating, which was considered of a scientific character, founded upon an axiom of Hippocrates, " that wounds of the bladder are always fatal." This method was adopted by the family of CoUot, in Paris, and continued to be practised by them for many years. To avoid cutting the bladder, these surgeons began their incision in the anterior part of the perineum, and opened into the spongy part of the urethra, at or in front of the bulb, and then dilated or rather tore open the textures of the perineum, the membranous and prostatic urethra and the neck of the bladder, till the aperture was large enough to enable them to extract the stone. This was termed the method by the " Appa- ratus Major." One of its princij)les was " a small incision and large dilatation." And, properly understood, this is one of the principles of lithotomy in the present day. But their plan of dilatation was really extensive and deep-seated laceration. These surgeons used two instruments, at first merely as conductors for the forceps, these they afterwards converted into powerful dilators, which, instead of dilating the parts, lacerated them extensively. The urethra and prostate were either separated from the bladder or so torn up as at last to enable the stone to be got out of the