1230 REGIONAL SURGERY. retain his urine for an hour or so before the examination. If, however, the patient is unable to retain his water, then we must inject some tepid water into the bladder. This requires to be done very gently, by means of a slow continuous stream, avoid- ing all jerking, pausing occasionally to give time for the muscular coat to dilate gradually. About six or seven ounces of water are quite sufficient to enable us to explore the bladder fully. The form of sound to be used is of some importance, for, with a sound with the curve of the ordinary catheter, we cannot move the instrument freely in the bladder, and might readily pass over a flat stone lying in the pouch behind the prostate—a position the stone often occupies—and this will be more li]?:ely to occur in old persons, or in patients in whom the gland is enlarged. For these reasons, the sound is generally made with a short and rather sudden curve, so as to enable us to turn the point in all directions, and sweep the whole cavity of the bladder. Of late years I have gener- ally used a sound with the end made of the same form as the closed lithotrite, but the stalk much smaller —about No. V or 8 gauge—to enable it to lie loose and move easily in the urethra. I first used this to prepare the urethra for the lithotrite ; but I found it so easily moved in the bladder, and give rise to so much less pain than the ordinary sound, that I now use it in almost all cases in the adult. In many instances the closed scoop lithotrite answers very well to sound with, and has moreover this advantage, that it enables the surgeon to measure the bulk of the stone, by seizing it between the blades. In all cases, however, we shordd have at hand sounds of different curves, and a short pointed catheter. This last-mentioned instrument is some- times needed, not only to enable us to inject water into the bladder, but also in cases where the detection of the stone is difficult. By using the catheter, and allowing the urine to escape