PERITONITIS. 1133 exudation is thrown out rapidly in large quantities, matting the convolutions of the intestines by adhesion of their peritoneal surfaces, and interfering with their functions. In cases where the acute action is overcome, and the patient survives, the soft recent adhesions gradually become elongated, and of fibrous cha- racter. In some forms of peritonitis, and when the action is limited, the surface of the membrane loses its smooth glistening character, and becomes rough and granular from deposit of lymph on its surface, a condition often met with in strangulated hernia in a portion of bowel above the protrusion. In some instances, the very intensity of the action would seem to prevent organic change. Thus, in two cases of rupture of the bladder, where the patients suffered from all the symptoms of intense peritonitis, I found no apparent change in the peritoneum, no increased vascu- larity, no recent adhesions or flakes of lymph, and no effusion, with the exception of about two ounces of turbid fluid of a urinous odour in the recto-vesical pouch of the peritoneum. It seemed as if the very excess of the disease had so impaired the vital powers as to prevent the plastic or serous effusion taking place. The prognosis in surgical peritonitis following a wound, or arising during the progress of a hernia, is much less favourable than in ordinary idiopathic peritonitis. The Treatment will be modified by the nature of the wound and other circumstances in individual cases, but the general indications are, to allay pain by the exhibition of opium either alone or in combination with calomel, and given at intervals of three or four hours—warm fomentations over the abdomen at and near the wound, and the application of a blister over the belly at a part more remote from the wound. In surgical peritonitis it is not very often that the patient can bear depletion. In cases of wounds the previous loss of blood, and in cases of hernia the exhaustion consequent on the diseased condition generally, contra-indicate it. In some cases, however, of young robust patients, or when the pain is very acute and the pulse hard and firm, depletion by leeches over the abdo- men or by venesection may be used advantageously at the early period of the diseased action, but scarcely when effusion or