1156 REGIONAL SURGERY. by the resisting ring, and swells out over its margins, and can no longer be pushed back through it. This explains the nature of mechanical constriction in strangulated hernia. It is entirely passive as regards the hernial apertures, and depends on various conditions leading to distension or swelling of the contents of the hernial sac ; and the thickened neck of the sack, as I have stated formerly, is very frequently the cause of this passive con- striction. The pathological changes and symptoms which follow the early stage of acute incarceration, leading to strangulation, are, first, irritation and swelling of the protruded gut, and this is usually attended with some nausea and griping pains in the abdomen, and tenderness in the hernial protrusion. The peri- staltic movements of the gut are interfered with, and the return of venous blood is prevented, so that congestion ensues, gases become evolved in the gut; thus the hernia becomes more and more tense and distended, and more and more pressed out towards the resisting edges, so that these appear to cut into the hernia. It is important to remember these conditions while applying taxis. At this stage of incarceration certain symptoms are produced. The patient complains of pain in the part, from the gut coming in contact with the sharp edge of the fibrous textiire. Some irritation is also produced in the part above the constriction. There is pain from the umbilicus towards the hernial protrusion, a feeling of nausea is set up, and the patient vomits, especially if the hernia has come down suddenly. Some- times the irritation is communicated to the part of the bowel below the hernia, and causes an attack of diarrhoea. The pain and distension become greater, the intestine becomes distended, so that the natural peristaltic movements of the bowel are arrested or inverted. The pain and tension in the tumour increase ; the abdomen is tense, tender, and tympanitic, and the vomit- ing becomes more frequent. The pulse at this time is quick, the skin is hot and feverish, the tongue moist and loaded, and there is generally headache. In old people, or in chronic cases, the symptoms are not always so iirgent. The vomiting