1101 CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. symptoms of croup supervened, and on the 7tli a suffocative spasm necessitated his removal to the Infirmary. Emetics and sinapisms proving useless, and the paroxysms having recurred several times, Mr. Spence that same evening opened the trachea. The child continued restless till 4 A.M., after which he slept for nearly two hours. Next day the breathing was somewhat more laboured, but after the application of a sinapism between the shoulders it became easy and the pulse natural. On the 11th the tube was removed for a short time, but required to be replaced owing to the large amount of tough mucus clogging up the trachea, and which could only be expelled through the tube. Two days after, the tube was finally removed ; and on the 4th of August he was dismissed, the wound in the trachea having been healed for some time previously. 6. r. S., set. 6, was first visited by Dr. James A. Sidey on the 5th of November. He had been suffering for five days from feverishness and sore throat, and on the previous evening had shown symptoms of croup. When seen his tongue was foul, tonsils ulcerated, breathing difficult and croupy, and pulse 140. Leeches and emetics failed to give relief ; and next day, his breathing having become more gaspy, I was sent for, and performed tracheotomy. I extracted some false membrane during the operation, and after it the child coughed up some moulds of the bronchi. He continued well during the whole of the next day, but on the 8th began to get worse, and died November 9th, 1858. About a week or ten days after, his two sisters were affected with undeniable scarlet fever, and his mother with ulcerated sore throat. 7. W. R., set. 4^ years, after sitting out in the garden, towards evening, on the damp grass, began to suffer from a severe cold. Five days after, on the 29th of March 1859, Dr. Wm. Ziegler was sent for. There were signs of slight bronchitis in both lungs ; the cough was hard, ringing, and croupy ; the inspirations were free from stridor ; he was dull and listless, and had lost considerably in flesh, but there was no febrile excitement, nor pain on pressure over the larynx. He was ordered an ipecacuan emetic, to inhale steam, fomentations over the larynx, and a sinapism to the chest. On the 30th the cough was not so hard, but the bronchitic rales were more general over the posterior lobes of the lungs ; there was slight mucous expectoration ; the skin was hotter and the pulse quickened. A blister was applied to his back, and he was ordered a mixture containing antimonial wine ; the ipecacuan emetic to be repeated if the breathing became oppressed. On the 31st he was rather worse, his breathing having been much oppressed during the night. He was restless, his pulse rapid and weak, skin hot, face flushed, cough more frequent and decidedly croupy, inspira- tion husky and laryngeal. There was, however, no lividity. The ipecacuan having failed to induce vomiting, sulphate of copper was given instead. Small quantities of white wine whey were administered, and the inhalations and fomentations continued. During the day the sulphate of copper was given several times, and each time induced severe vomiting, but without producing any favourable change. Mr. Spence was therefore called in consultation ; and on April 1st, at 4 a.m., it was found necessary to perform tracheotomy. Considerable relief followed the operation, and