1012 REGIONAL SURGERY. The Entrance of Foreign Bodies into the larynx is a very dangerous form of accident, and one of frequent occurrence. The danger is not always in direct proportion to the bulk of the body introduced. The symptoms are very marked in the earlier stages. They are, in fact, an exaggeration of those produced by what in popular language is spoken of as a piece of food "going down the wrong way"—namely, a violent convulsive cough, immediately followed by a sense of suffo- cation, and a strong effort of the patient to bring all the mus- cles of the larynx and chest into play, so as to expel the offending substance. If the patient succeeds in doing this, the symptoms, of course, cease, but they may also pass off' for a time without the danger being removed. A foreign body, such as a cherry-stone, may enter the laryjix and give rise to a great deal of irritation and violent symptoms of suffocation ; but if it pass down into the trachea, and thence into the bronchus, these symptoms will cease, and a period of quiescence come on, during which the patient breathes quite easily, and yet the danger has not passed away. The foreign body is still present, and when the patient begins to cough or move about, it may again be thrown up into the larynx. All the symptoms immediately return, and during one of the paroxysms the patient may be suffocated. The foreign body may even remain in the larynx itself, and yet no symptoms show themselves for a time. In one case, when examining a body, I found an orange-pip, which lay in the ventricle of Morgagni, and remained there for years, but it ultimately caused the death of the patient, for, though it produced no irritation at first, and though its pre- sence was not suspected, it was the means of setting up disease in the larynx, which terminated in a form of Phthisis Laryngea. When we look at the physiological conditions which give rise to the symptoms, we see how important they are as re- gards the diagnosis. The upper parts of the air-passages are endowed with a peculiar form of innervation, their mucous membrane being supplied entirely by the superior laryngeal nerve, the filaments of which pass down for some distance.