DANGERS OF LITHOTOMY. 1243 to you tlie general dangers of lithotomy. Amongst these dangers there are some common to all methods, such as pyaemia, inflam- mation of the neck of the bladder, uraemia from siippression of urine, and the shock. This last, however, is now much dimin- ished since the introduction of chloroform. These risks do not depend on the method of operation, and, so far as the incisions are concerned, may be termed unavoidable. The dangers incident to certain methods of operating are—haemorrhage, infiltration of urine into the subperitoneal cellular tissue of the pelvis, and wound of the rectum. The last-mentioned occurrence, however, is rather a disagreeable accident than a danger; and indeed, as I have already stated, free incision of the rectum forms a neces- sary part of the recto-vesical operation. To these risks must be added the danger of bruising and lacerating the textures at the neck of the bladder and of the perineum, in attempts to extract forcibly a large stone through an insufficient incision. To understand how far some of the methods give a greater chance than others of avoiding some of these dangers, and how some of them, in trying to avoid one risk incur another equally dangerous, let us take a general view of the space in which any of the forms of perineal lithotomy must be performed, and the relations of the pelvic fascia to the deep incision in reference to the risk of infiltration of urine. The perineal space, or inferior outlet of the pelvis, is not very large in the male ; bounded in front by the pubic arch and sub- pubic ligament, and laterally by the rami of the pubis and ischium and tuber ischii, and laterally and posteriorly by ■ the great sacro-sciatic ligament overlapped by the margins of the gluteus maximus of each side, and posteriorly by the coccyx. We have a diamond or lozenge-shaped space, which, for the sake of description, may be divided into two nearly equal triangles by a line draAvn across the space from one tuberosity of the ischium to the other. The anterior is sometimes termed the urethral triangle, and corresponds more directly to the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra and the neck of the bladder, the parts towards which our incisions in lithotomy are directed. 4 M