1351 SECONDARY AFFECTIONS. the male, and are even intensified. The conditions just alluded to modify the treatment. In vaginal gonorrhoea the treatment is almost entirely local, and consists in washing out the passage with mild alkaline lotions and then injecting solution of acetate of lead and opium, and applying lint soaked in the solution to the vulva, and when the more acute symptoms pass off, using zinc and alum injections to arrest the discharge. Eemedies such as balsam of copaiva or cubeb pepper, which are considered specifics in the male, exert no influence in the cure, as they act on the urinary organs, and do not affect the vagina. But they are required if the urethra becomes affected. In speaking of the general characters of gonorrhoea virulenta, I mentioned the secondary constitutional affections which often follow it—the lichenous eruptions and rheumatic symptoms. When these supervene, we should leave off the balsamic remedies and cubebs, and have recourse to small doses of the nitrate of potash, colchicum wine, and diaphoretics, and the occasional use of the alkaline warm bath, or the vapour bath in bed may be substituted, to avoid the risk of the patient being chilled after the bath. As the more acute symptoms pass off, the iodide of potassium may be given with advantage. One of the most serious affections following gonorrhoea is gonorrhoeal ophthalmia. It may arise from the patient inadver- tently touching the eye with the gonorrhoeal discharge; but it arises as a constitutional affection independently of such cause. The disease is characterised by extreme vascular congestion, and bright redness of the conjunctiva, the sub-conjunctival cellular tissue becomes infiltrated and swollen, leading rapidly to chemosis, infiltration, and swelling of the eyelids and puru- lent discharge. The cornea is very liable to suffer at an early period owing to the pressure and interference with its nutrition. It becomes opaque from effusion between its layers, and ulcera- tion or sloughing may result. The treatment reqmres to be very active. The chemosed conjunctiva should be snipped to allow the infiltration to escape, and to relieve the congested vessels ; the swollen conjunctiva of the eyelids should be snipped or