REGIONAL SURGERY. 1178 intestine, not distended, but closely packed and tightly strangn- liited. On dividing the constriction I found the gut quite gan- grenous, and on drawing down the portion of intestine continuous with it, I found that the gangrenous condition had extended for upwards of twelve inches. The gangrenous portion was cut away, and the ends of the bowel stitched to the integument, to prevent retraction, as no adhesions had occurred. The appear- ance of the parts is shown in the sketch. The man rallied, and for some time seemed to improve, but the portion of gut strangu- lated had been high up in the jejunum, and he ultimately sank. On the same evening that I operated on this patient, another man with a moderate-sized inguinal rupture was sent to my care. After cold had been applied, I reduced it without any great difficulty, and without giving chloroform. I applied a com- press and bandage, and sent him to bed, expecting that he would be quite well next day. N"ext morning, however, I found he had been vomiting almost constantly, and complained of pain in the abdomen, near the site of the deep ring ; he had also a quick pulse and anxious expression. ISTo vestige of swelling could be seen or felt, but he complained of extreme tenderness at the point mentioned. His bowels had not been opened since the rupture first came down. From the ease with which I had reduced the hernia, and the sensation of its return, I could not believe any portion was strangulated ; but the urgency of the symptoms, and the coincidence of the former case which I had just operated on, decided me on cutting down and examining the canaL I did so ; but no protrusion appeared, nor could I feel any, though I slit up the parietes freely to make quite sure. But whilst the state of the patient, prior to the operation, was such as to indi- cate extreme danger, yet from the time of its performance all the dangerous symptoms disappeared. The intense pain and vomit- ing ceased immediately. The bowels were moved naturally the next day, and he made a rapid recovery. The results of these two cases, occurring as they did, formed a strong contrast, and warrant me, I think, in saying that safety lies in operating ; and that, even though nothing be found, the patient is certainly not