1300 REGIONAL SURGERY. the textures external to tlie canal, and is often thrown out irregularly so as to impinge upon the canal laterally and distort the passage. The consolidation of texture arising from the plastic exudation may extend for some lines in length, and is usually more solid and resistant and less resilient than the annular form. In many cases the consolidation and contraction are pretty equally distributed around the canal, merely narrowing its circle; but in others, they take place so irregularly, as not only to alter the direction of the canal, but to cause its mucous surface to project irregularly, and thus render the passage of instruments very difficult. In old-standing contractions of this kind, the consolidated structure is very firm and unyielding, and when divided with the knife, it cuts with the crisp sensation of the section of cartilage ; and such old contractions are often spoken of as cartilaginous stricture. The forms of stricture included under the second head, viz.— Obstructions of the canal from new formations arising from plastic deposits on its free surface are much less frequently met with. The old surgeons used to speak of stricture as always arising from the presence of caruncles or warty projections on the interior of the urethra. Very probably they supposed that the obstruction was caused by warty excrescences, such as they would often see arising from the mucous lining of the prepuce in cases of gonorrhoea, which is so frequent a cause of stricture, and they might infer that a similar state of matters existed in the interior of the canal. In reality, projections from the free surface of the urethra, whether in the smooth polypoid or warty forms, are very rarely met with ; less frequently perhaps than in any other mucous canal. The projection of folds of false membrane of a crescentic form, stretching along and attached to the sides of the canal, are sometimes met with. The false membrane, closely resembling the mucous lining, is usually attached by its convexity, and stretches from the floor of the urethra along the side of the canal, the concavity of the fold looking towards the orifice of the urethra, and not unlike a very large lateral lacuna. This form was spoken of by Sir Charles