CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1411 even after the contraction consequent on the healing process, a very free opening. Dissecting from within, I found the epigastric artery of a large size, and the obturator arising from it; this latter vessel was obliterated to some ex- tent, and diminished in size, from the effects of the ligature. The ligature on its proximal end had not separated, that on the distal end had ; but the injection had entered the distal portion by the anastomosing vessels, so that the course of the artery round the opening through which the hernia passed, can be readily traced in the preparation ; a sketch of which is siibjoined (see Plate Iviii.) It arises from the epigastric before that vessel has ascended on the parietes, creeps slightly upwards on the outer side of the femoral ring, then cxirves closely around its upper border, and finally descends along its inner side to gain the obturator foramen, so as to en- circle the opening at all points available for division with the knife. I learn from Mr. Edwards, one of the demonstrators in the University, that the artery was also irregular on the opposite side,—where the epigastric arose from the common femoral, passed upwards in front of the femoral vein, and, on reaching the abdominal parietes, gave off the obturator so as to surround the upper part of the crural ring ; unfortunately, however, the dissection has not been preserved. Remarks.—This case is, I believe, unique in one respect, being, as far as I can learn, tlie only one in which the presence of the artery has been ascertained during the operation, and avoided in incising the ordinary seat of constriction ; whilst its ligature and division were ultimately necessitated, from the vessel itself being the obstacle to reduction. But I think it principally worthy of being detailed, as it seems to me to show practically, that, in cases of femoral hernia, where the irregular vessel exists, its presence may be ascertained, and the constricting portion of the crural ring may be sufficiently divided to admit of reduction, without M'ounding the irregular vessel, if certain precautions be adopted; and, secondly, when complications may necessitate or endanger its division, it shows that the vessel may be tied, and what the plan of procedure in such cases ought to be. First, then, as to the risk and chance of avoiding injury in ordinary cases of femoral hernia. I will not enter into anatomical details further than to say that there are three different positions in which we find the obturator artery placed, in relation to the femoral ring, when it arises by a common trunk with the epigastric—viz., 1st, Descend-