REGIONAL SURGERY. 1412 ing closely applied upon the external iliac vein, to reach the obturator foramen, and hence lying to the outside of, or behind and to the outside of, a femoral hernia, and therefore out of all risk of injury during the operation. 2(f, Passing down from the epigastric towards the obturator foramen—further removed from the vein, so as to divide the femoral ring into two sections, in which case it might be either pushed aside, or stretched in front of a hernial protrusion, or, as in a case described by the late Mr. Allan Burns, have two small hernial protrusions, one on either side of it. 3c?, The artery arising from the epigastric passes up- wards, then curves round the upper, and descends along the inner margin of the femoral ring to gain the obturator foramen, so as to encircle a hernia passing out at the femoral opening, in all the directions available for incision. It is to this last irregularity I would at present direct attention. As regards the statistics of this form of irregularity, there is considerable discrepancy, some authorities, as Mr. Quain, stating it at nearly 1 in 10 ; Velpeau, 1 in 15 ; and Monro, 1 in 20 or 25. It is evident, however, that practically, no matter how rare or frequent such an irregularity may be, the surgeon can never predict in what case he may meet with it, and is therefore bound to act in every case with the same caution as if it were present. This arterial irregularity, as coincident with a femoral hernia, must be, of course, still more rare, yet there are several such cases on record. There is a preparation in the Barclay department of the Museum of the Edinburgh College of Surgeons, showing such a coincidence ; and the late Mr. Liston had one in his museum. In at least two cases the artery has been wounded during the operation for strangulated femoral hernia : once in a case oper- ated on by Baron Dupuytren, where its division was only dis- covered after the patient's death from other causes. The other case occurred to Mr. Skey of St. Bartholomew's ; in it the bleed- ing was profuse at the time, the lower end of the artery was tied, the upper could not be secured, but bleeding was arrested by other means, for the patient only died some days afterwards.