REGIONAL SURGERY. 1380 operation consists in paring off the callous edges of the lacerated parts, after the patient has been properly prepared, and then uniting the margins by silver wire sutures, carried very deeply to keep the parts in close apposition. The operation for the relaxed condition of the vagina is performed as follows :— The patient is placed recumbent, with the thighs separated, as in lithotomy. The large duck-bill speculum is introduced, its concave surface looking towards the posterior wall of the vagina. The operator then proceeds to make a V-shaped incision, the apex of the incision beginning about two or two and a half inches above the orifice of the vagina. The lines of incision as they descend should include the mucous membrane on the lateral wall of the vagina, as well as of the posterior wall, and also the perineal integuments at the orifice of the vagina. The triangular flap of mucous membrane marked out is then dis- sected off, so as to leave a raw surface. All bleeding points should be secured by torsion, or fine catgut ligature, and the parts washed by a stream of cold water^from a syringe, and any oozing arrested by applying a little spirits of turpentine to the surface. When all oozing has ceased, the surgeon takes a strong needle in a fixed handle, and entering it deeply, at least half an inch from the side of the vagina, carries it across the upper part of the raw surface, and brings out its point at the same distance from the vagina on the opposite side. A strong but fine soft silver or copper wire is then passed into the eye of the needle, which is withdrawn, so as to leave the suture, and this is repeated till three or four sutures are passed, so as to bring the perineal and vaginal wounds into accurate and close apposition. These sutures should be left in for at least eight or ten days, unless they give rise to irritation, and the vagina should be kept cleansed by gently syringing it out with weak carbolic lotion twice a-day. In some of my earlier cases I used to employ the quilled suture, made with strong thread, to support the deeper parts of the wound ; and that method answers very well, and is still