REGIONAL SURGERY. 1274 operation he passed no urine, nor felt any uneasiness. The day after the operation his pnlse was seventy-two, regular, and of fair strength. He had no anxious expression, and felt no pain or pressure over the bladder, and when I visited the ward he was lying reading a newspaper. Everything seemed so favourable, that beyond introducing a gum catheter through the tube to satisfy myself that there was no water in the bladder, and then injecting a little tepid water, I did not think it necessary to inter- fere beyond directing a sinapism and hot fomentations over the lumbar and hypogastric regions. Next day his pulse was irregu- lar, still he was quite collected and said he felt no pain, but he gradually became comatose, and died about sixty hours after the operation. I obtained an examination of the body. There was no appearance of disease or irritation in the peritoneum or abdominal viscera, with the exception of an enormous amount of fat. The bladder was free from any trace of inflammation, the track of the wound healthy, and the direction and extent of the pros- tatic incision all right. Indeed, the sketcli of the wound after lithotomy (Plate Iv.) was taken from this case. Both kidneys were very much congested, as also the renal veins, but there was no appearance of any structural change or disease of the kidneys. Were I to meet with a similar case, I should lose no time, hoM'- ever slight the general symptoms, in using the vapour bath and other means to induce free diaphoresis, as well as employing powerful counter-irritation over the lumbar region. Inflammation of the neck of the bladder, attended by exces- sive pain at the point of the penis, nausea, rigors, and other symptoms, occurring from six to eight days after the operation, is mentioned by some surgeons. I have never seen a case of this affection. The treatment recommended is depletion by leeches applied over the hypogastrium, or to the verge of the anus, opiate enemata or suppositories to allay pain, and diluent drinks and antiphlogistic regimen. The symptoms described as ushering in this inflammation of the neck of the bladder, as well as their progress and usually unfavourable termination, have a strong resemblance to those of