EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. xix applied from behind, as it should be in operating on the left arm. In operating on the right arm, the surgeon grasps the projected head of the bone with his left hand, and saws the bone from before backwards. Fig. 2. Outline figure, showing the lines of incision used for excision of the elbow-joint. Page 722. The dotted lines represent the positions of the single, longitudinal, and H incisions. Fig. 3. Excision of the elbow by the single longitudinal incision. The position of the narrow saw is shown as applied for removal of articular ends of the ulna and radius. Fig. 4. Excision of wrist-joint, by the two lateral incisions, (reduced from a plate in Bourgery and Jacob's Operative Surgery). The only difference between this and the modern operation is, that in the latter the bone-pliers and narrow saw are used instead of the chain-saw represented in the plate. See page 725. Fig. 5. Excision of the knee-joint by lunated incision. The condyles of the femur have been" removed, and the narrow saw is shown as applied for removing a thin slice from the articular surface of the tibia. Pages 731-32. Figs. 6, 7, 8, and 9. Dr. "Watson's apparatus for the purposes of after- treatment in cases of excision of the knee-joint. Pages 733-34. Plate XXXII.—Page 730. Fig. 1. Sketch from a photograph of a patient, showing the result of excision of the knee-joint. Fig. 2. Sketch from a photograph of a patient after excision of the shoulder-joint by single incision. Showing the appearance of the shoulder, and the power which the arm retains. AMPUTATION—DISSECTIONS OF STUMPS.— Plate XXXIIL—Page 740. Dissection of a double-flap stump of the forearm, showing the muscularity retained, and the neuromata resulting from section of the great nerves. It will be observed that the ends of the median and ulnar nerves, although far from the cicatrix, and deeply covered, present neuromatous enlargement, yet the stump was not a painful one. Dissection of an old stump of the thigh, formed by circular amputation. The femur projects the cicatrix, there are numerous neuromata, one nerve is stretched over the end of the bone. Fig. 3. Stump of the thigh formed by anterior' and posterior flaps, by Liston's method. The end of the bone, though not projecting, corresponds to the cicatrix. The sartorius and other muscles are