1214 REGIONAL SURGERY. dical journals. I have repeatedly operated both on males and females above 80. The youngest patient I have operated on for strangulated hernia was between eight and nine months old. My oldest patient was a woman who had completed her 98th year two days previous to the operation. She made an excel- lent recovery, and I believe lived to complete her 100th year. The infant above alluded to also did well. Except as a matter of curious interest, however, I cannot see what the age of the patient has to do with the propriety of performing an operation of necessity such as that for strangulated hernia. In connection with the subject of Hernia, I would briefly allude to the question of surgical interference in cases of obstruc- tion of the bowels from internal strangulation of the intestine, or from intus-susception. From what I have said in favour of operative interference in cases in which a hernia has been reduced en masse, the symptoms of strangulation remaining unrelieved, you might naturally conclude, that operation was equally im- perative in the cases of internal obstruction. The conditions, however, are really very different. In cases of intus-susception or internal strangulation, we have not the same certainty, either in regard to diagnosis as to the cause of obstruction, or as to the position of the constriction, if it exist, or even as to our power to relieve it when found. I have repeatedly seen in post mortem exa- minations, the small intestine so twisted that when fully exposed the adhesions and constriction could not be relieved; and in cases of intus-susception at the period at which we would be warranted in operating, the adhesion and sloughing of the inva- ginated portion of bowel would generally render the operation useless. Again, in many cases of obstruction in which I have been consulted and advised delay, I have seen the patients recover under the use of calomel and opium, so that I cannot look upon the operation of gastrotomy with favour, nor can the circumstances of the class of cases for which it has been proposed be considered as analogous to those of strangulated hernia.