1032 REGIONAL SURGERY. weeks, and death may occur by gradual exhaustion from the dis- ease—a result either of the blood-poisoning alone, or of that com- bined with paralysis of the pharynx, preventing deglutition, and so interfering with nutrition ; by a similar affection of the glottis —allowing fluids to enter the trachea or wound; or lastly, by the diseased action attacking the wound, and leading to phagedjena. I have also known death occur, in the case of an adult, on the second day after the operation, from paralysis of the heart, though the dyspnoea had been completely relieved. The most formidable complications are those dependent upon the peculiar affection of the nervous system, causing paralysis of the pharynx, giving rise to the inability to swal- low, or of the palate, leading to regurgitation of food through the nostrils. These two conditions have long attracted atten- tion ; but I am not aware that the similar affection of the glottis has been advei'ted to, though 1 have repeatedly noticed and remarked it to my medical friends. In the first case in which I saw the fluid food come through the tube, I was afraid that ulceration had occurred between the pharynx and larynx. "When satisfied that such a state did not exist, I thought the phenomenon might be due to the kind of tube used, with an aperture on its convex side ; but I have found it occur equally in cases in which the ordinary tube was rised. The fluid must then have passed the glottis without causing any cough, and only have been ejected when it stimulated the bronchi, or trachea below the tube. In other words, the fine sensitive nerves, which act as sentinels at the outwork of the air-passages, become paralysed, and no effort to close the glottis is made during the attempt at deglutition ; and so part of the fluid passes down the larynx and trachea, till, by stimulating the bronchial membrane, it gives rise to its own ejection through the tube or wound. This condition seems peculiar to diphtheria, for although I have now had a very large experience of tracheotomy, performed for different kinds of disease or accident, I have never seen the fluid food ejected by the tube except in that disease. I think it more important on this account, that, whilst our attention is attracted