CONTENTS OF SAC—DIAGNOSIS. 1145 strangulated hernia. Another thing to recollect is, that during an operation, this texture in cases of strangulated hernia, espe- cially in femoral hernia, is fine, smooth, and not unlike the sac itself when closely applied over the swelling. You will, how- ever, generally be able to satisfy yourself of its real nature by observing that it is prolonged indefinitely upwards on the swell- ing, owing to its continuity with the margins of the aperture. Whereas, when the sac is fairly exposed, the sharp defined mar- gins of the aperture can be felt, though tightly constricting the protrusion. The contents of the hernial sac may consist either of intestine alone, constituting what is termed enterocele, or of omentum only—epiplocele, or of both intestine and omentum—entero- epiplocele. The portions of the hollow viscera which may form the contents of the sac are various. Different parts of the colon or of the small intestine, and even the urinary bladder, have been found in hernial tumours. The portions of the intestine, however, most frequently met with are the ileum, occasionally the lower part of the jejunum, of the small intes- tine and the caput coecum, or part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon in the case of the large intestine. The presence of omentum in the sac will modify both the physical and general diagnostics in reducible hernia, and will to some extent protect the intestine in cases of strangulated hernia, by diminishing the direct effects of the constriction on the intestine. The diagnostic symptoms of hernia, in reference to other abdominal swellings, will be better discussed when speaking of the special herniae. At present I shall merely indicate the absolute diagnostics in a case of simple reducible hernia. These may be described in general terms as consisting of a colourless elastic swelling, more or less distinct, at some part of the abdominal parietes, which has either appeared gradually, or been first noticed after some sudden effort. When the hand or finger is applied lightly over the swelling, and the patient is desired to cough, a distinct and direct impulse is communicated to the tumour, and probably an increase in its bulk takes place. On