1074 REGIONAL SURGERY. Large Cervical Tumour successfully removed. The following is an example of tlie excision of a growth similar in character, though presenting some local peculiari- ties :— George Manson, set. 16, recommended to me by Dr. Grant Smith of Thurso, on account of a large cervical tumour, was admitted into the Eoyal Infirmary under my care ou the 9th of June 1867. On examination, tlie tumour, which was somewhat irregular in form, nodulated on the surface, and of a firm consistence, was found to occupy the whole of the left side of tlie neck. Commencing at a point close under the angle of the jaw, it passed beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and then projected towards the surface, extending back to and elevating tlie interior margin of the trapezius, and occupying the whole of the supra-scapular and subclavian regions of the neck, where it lay below the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. On the mesial side of the sterno-mastoid, the tumour projected inwards, pressing the larynx and trachea to the riglit side ; it bulged upwards to a level with the os hyoides, and below it dipped beneath the muscles in front of the trachea, and descended into the supra-sternal fossa. The growth seemed movable, and its margins were pretty well defined, except at the sternal region, where it appeared to pass deeply, and where the superimposed textures bound down its surface so as to prevent its connections from being so clearly ascertained as in other directions. It was not moved by the efforts of deglutition, but the position of the belly of the omo-hyoid was very distinctly seen over the posterior portion of the tumour during such efforts. Tlie superficial veins of the left side of the neclt were somewhat larger and more numerous than those of the opposite side. The history of the case showed that tlie tumour had been originally, and for many years, of slow growth. It was first noticed when the boy was three years of age, and increased little for the first eight or nine years ; but of late it had progressed more rapidly, especially during the last two years. There was no pain in the tumour, nor interference with deglutition, but for some months the breathing at night had become oppressed, and at times spasmodic. The lad's health was good ; there was no appearance of emaciation, and all the functions were natural. The tumour was fii-m, and apparently solid throughout, and, as I liave said, tolerably well defined. The youth and his friends were anxious that something should be attempted to relieve the increasing difficulty of breathing ; and on my stating that I thought the removal of the tumour advisable, they readily consented to the operation. On the 12th of June I performed tlie operation for the removal of the tumour in the following manner :—I first made an incision along the course of the stemo-niastoid, from the angle of the jaw to beyond the sterno-clavicular articulation. Then at its lower termination I made a small transverse incision, about an inch and a half in length, so as to enable me to expose more fully the jiart where tlie tmnour passed into