EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. xxvii fatty appendages which hang from it. The manner in which these portions of the intestines rise and cover the ring, may give the surgeon an idea of the difficulty which sometimes occurs in cutting the stricture. This plate represents the manner in which the femoral hernia will sometimes rise from the depth of the groin, when freed of the integuments and the binding of the fascia. A B, The extent of the incision of the integuments. C C, An aponeurosis dissected off the proper sac. D, The hernia covered by the proper sac. The tumour is of a pyramidal form. E, A cut through the sac. LITHOTOMY.—Plate LIII.—Page 1256. Patient secured in the position for the operation. The dotted line marks the course and extent of the lateral incision. Lateral view of the perineum and pelvis, showing the position of the knife in cutting into the groove of tlie staff. The dotted lines indicate the staff and the extent of the prostatic incision. These sketches are reduced from original drawings from nature, by Dr. John Smith. Staff, knife, and forceps used in the operation. The loop-bandage for securing the wrists to the middle of the foot, as in Fig. 1. Plate LIV.—Page 1258. Fig. 1 shows the direction in which the forceps should be introduced to seize the stone. Fig. 2. Direction in which extraction should be effected. Fig. 3. Use of the scoop in removing small calculi or fragments of a stone. Fig. 4. Position of the lithotomy tube. When the tubes are secured the external orifice of the tube should be raised so as to depress the point into the ' bas-fond' of the bladder. Figs. 5, 6, and 7 indicate the position of the knife and finger in the method recommended for facilitating the entrance of the knife into the groove of the staff at proper points. See page 1260. Fig. 8. The bulbous searcher. Fig. 9. Scoop and lever. Plate LV.—Page 1259. (To follow immediately the preceding Plate.) Fig. 1. Dissection of the parts in a case in which the lateral operation had been performed. The track of the incision is seen gradually narrow- ing from the external wound to that in the prostate ; the staff is seen bare where it had been cut into just in front of the prostate. The lateral lobe of the prostate gland covered by the prostatic Fig. 3. Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Fig. 3. Fig. 4.