1410 REGIONAL SURGERY. once, in case any symptoms of peritonitis supervened. Next day the pulse had risen to 120, and there was pain in the abdomen, and vomiting. Fifteen leeches were applied, and a pill, composed of 2 grs. of calomel and J gr. of opium, was given every foivr hours. On the 20th, the abdominal tenderness and the vomiting were less, but as the bowels had not yet been moved, an assafcetida enema was administered, this produced no satisfactory evacuations ; a large distending enema on the 21st also failed to open the bowels, a dose of castor oil was therefore given on the evening of the 2 2d, and, on the morning of the 23d, after another large enema of warm water, a very considerable fseculent evacuation took place, with great relief. On the 24th his general appearance was better, the pulse had fallen to 100, and the abdominal tenderness now complained of was confined to the lower part of the abdomen, and evidently due to inflammation, and thi'eatened suppuration in the abdominal parietes. He could retain food without vomiting, and was ordered chicken soup and some port wine. He was weaker and restless on the 26th. There was considerable pain and tension at one part of the abdominal parietes, and it was thought advisable to make an incision, in case of purulent matter being confined ; but the incision, though carried deeply, did not open any purulent collection. A poultice was directed to be applied. The patient continued much the same till towards the morning of the 27th, when he became worse, sank rather suddenly, and died at 11 a.m. Post-mortem Examination.—On opening the abdomen, there were found the marks of acute peritonitis, but in a great measui-e limited to the right iliac and pelvic regions ; lymph was effused upon the surface of the in- testines, and there was a small quantity of turbid serum in the pelvis. The ccecum had regained nearly its normal position and appearance, re- taining only slight traces of ecchymosis ; the abraded part of its peritoneal and muscular coats, however, was as distinct as when first seen during the operation, and no attempts at plastic reparation seemed to have taken place ; the lower parts of the ileum were also free, except a portion about three inches in length, which was thickened, and adherent to the parietal peri- toneum in the neighbourhood of the wound. Before making any further dissection, I inserted a pipe into the right common iliac artery, and threw in some injection to distend the vessels, so as to be able to examine them more carefully afterwards. On examining the swollen parts of the abdominal parietes, the muscular tissue was found generally thickened, and of a dense brawn-like consistence ; whilst the substance of the rectus and oblique muscles was studded with niimerous small collections of pus of a dirty grey colour, and which seemed infiltrated into their texture, not escaping readily when the collections were opened. There was also a considerable diff'use abscess in the sub-peritoneal cellular tissue on the right side of the bladder, at some distance from the wound. The parts more immediately concerned in the operation were re- moved for further examination. On careful dissection, I found, as might have been expected from the lapse of time, that the parts were considerably matted by plastic efi'usion. On dissecting from without, I found the whole of the falciform process, together with the lower border of the tendon of the external oblique, fairly divided, and the spermatic cord and its investments laid bare, leaving.