CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. m\ importance to hold the incision in the trachea widely expanded, as the elasticity of the rings tends to close it, and so to impede the expulsion of the foreign body. In former cases, I have inserted the points of my dissecting forceps, and then expanded the blades ; but in this case I adopted the simpler plan of inserting the thin ivory handle of the scalpel I was nsing, and then turning it flat at the upper part of the incision ; it thus widely expanded the tracheal opening, occupied the least pos- sible space, and effectually prevented any risk of a foreign body passing from the larynx into the bronchi; whilst it also gave distinct evidence that the cherry-stone must have been in the trachea, and not in the larynx, as the peculiar cough had led us to suspect. Portion of Tracheotomy Tube in Bronchus—Extraction. " G. F., aged 33, came to tlie hospital on June 4th, 1863, stating that, about half-an-hour before, the shiekl of a tracheotomy tube, which he had worn for the last twelve months, had suddenly become detached, and that the cylindrical portion had slipped down into his windpipe. He pointed to a spot corresponding to the bifurcation of the trachea, and said he felt the tube there. He spoke and breathed without difEculty ; and the only signs of irritation were severe fits of conghing recurring at frequent inter- vals. Mr. Spence, having introduced a gun-shot probe into the trachea, guided it into the right bronchus, but failed to discover any foreign body. Tlie left bronchus was next explored, and then the probe was distinctly felt and heard striking the metallic tube. Chloroform was now adminis- tered, and the opening into tlie trachea having been enlarged, a forceps, with blades bent almost at a right angle, was guided downwards into the bronchus, and passed within the tube with the blades closed. The blades of the forceps were i\q-sX forcibly cj~]}andi'd, and the tube thus caught was readily extracted, with immediate relief to the patient, who left the hospital quite well four days after. liemarks.—"All that need be remarked concerning the case of Gr. r. is, that the tube was readily extracted, owing to the happy way in which it was caught, and that in this, as in the majority of such cases occurring in the practice of Mr. Spence, the foreign body was found impacted in the left hronclms, and not in the right, in which, according to the statenjents in books, foreign bodies more frequently lodge." In June 1862 1 received from a former pupil, the late Dr.