1211 RADICAL CURE. they very generally simplified their proceedings by making a clean sweep of the testicle as well as the sac. In 1830 M. Belmas re-excited attention to this subject in France. His method seems to have been not unlike Gerdy's and Wiirtzer's methods. It consisted in inserting and fixing a small bag of goldbeater's skin in the upper part of a hernial sac, leav- ing it there to excite inflammation and consolidation of the neck of the sac. His first operation succeeded, without inducing any bad symptoms. In another case, however, operated on at his request by Baron Dupuytren, though the patient ultimately recovered, he very nearly succumbed from peritonitis; and in other cases subsequently operated on by M. Belmas, the risks seem to have been so great as to deter others from adopting the plan; and whilst the radical cure was still considered theoreti- cally as a result which might be obtained at certain risk, sur- geons were content, as a general rule, to trust to the palliative method by retentive apparatus. Of late, however, attention has again been drawn to the sub- ject, and various plans adopted with more or less success, and, so far as published results show, with less risk to life. The part of the question which I feel most doubt regarding is, the per- manency of the cure. From what I have seen of some cases in which I had operated for strangulated hernia, and where great consolidation and apparently obliteration of the sac had occurred, I have for a time hoped for a radical cure ; but in all of them the consolidated mass gradually became less, and was carried down before a fresh protrusion, and the same has been my experience in cases operated on by Wiirtzer's plan, and the various modifications of it. In regard to the general question, my own opinion is, that whilst in certain cases where the herniae cannot be easily retained by trusses, or where circumstances render the patient anxious to try the radical cure, the operation to obtain that may be performed ; yet I believe that in the great majority of instances, owing to the risks and uncertainty of absolute permanent retention without the use of a truss, the palliative treatment by trusses is preferable. In young children, 4 K