DIFFICULTIES FROM FALSE PASSAGES. 1313 attended with relief of irritation, whereas unsuccessful attempts generally increa,se the irritability of the urethra and bladder. In such old tight strictures one cause of difficulty and embar- rassment is the existence of numerous old false passages, some of them, perhaps, nearly parallel to the natural passage, and of considerable length, and as their walls are consolidated, the sen- sation in passing the instrument is very similar to that of pass- ing through a stricture, whilst there is no bleeding, as when a new false passage is made in catheterism. In most instances, by gentle and careful use of the probe-pointed bougie or stric- ture-staff, we will succeed in getting it into and through the contraction ; but I have occasionally succeeded in some cases of very tight strictures, complicated with false passages, by a simple and ingenious method long practised on the Continent. It con- sists in passing a number of fine probe-pointed whalebone bougies. Say that there exist three false passages.—The surgeon takes one of these instruments and tries to pass it through the stric- ture, but feels that it has found its way into a false passage, and leaves it there; he then tries another, and leaves it in like manner in another false route; and so with the third. He now takes another of the bougies, and as all the three false passages are pre-occupied, this, if passed gently, almost infallibly passes into and through the stricture. The whalebone probes are so fine that they will pass through a contraction which will admit a bristle, and their delicacy prevents undue force being used. I have never tried this plan in retention cases, because the con- gested state of the parts seems to me to be unsuitable for it, and besides, we require to pass an instrument of sufficient size to evacuate the bladder. Dr. Gourlay, of New York, has ingeniously adapted this method as a means of conducting a metallic catheter grooved on its convexity down to the stricture, so as to enable him to divide it by perineal section in cases of very tight stric- tures ; but the fine probe-pointed grooved staff, passed fairly through the contraction, is a much surer guide for the knife. The Curative Treatment of organic stricture is conducted by different methods and on different principles, but all have for