REGIONAL SURGERY. 1092 Temple, a preparation of the larynx and trachea of a boy, who had died suffocated. A quantity of half-masticated food is im- pacted in the larynx and upper part of the trachea. No portion of the mass is above the level of the upper part of the thyroid cartilage, and therefore, as the accompanying history of the case shows, could not have been felt from the mouth.* The prepara- tion is in my private museum. The patient was a boy about 12 years of age. When first seen he seemed to be dying asphyxiated, and supposing it might be from spasm of the glottis, I had the patient immediately placed in a warm bath which was standing ready, and a jug of cold water poured upon his head. The shock partly restored consciousness, and on being asked if he were suffering jjain, ref)lied "Here " (in a very husky voice), pointing to his throat, then died in- stantly. The finger had been passed down the throat, but nothing could be found obstn;cting the gullet. The parents stated that he had had somewhat similar attacks before, and always spoke in a husky tone of voice. Whilst sitting at dinner, he was seized with what they considered one of the attacks to which he had been subject. Only a few seconds could have elapsed be- tween his being seized and being seen, and nothing had been done to the boy before my arrival. On dissection, the carotid artery of the right side was found crossing the trachea immediately at the situation where the incision would have been made in performing tracheotomy, and could scarcely have escaped being woimded or cut across, whilst the trachea itself was surrounded by an immense aggregation of enlarged glands, thus perhaps accounting for the husky speech by the pressure they had exerted on the recurrent laryngeal nerves. Cases of Tracheotomy in Croup. Case I.—John Blakeley, aged 4j years, was seized with hoarseness and pain in the throat on the 5th of April 1856. As he did not seem very serioiisly ill, he was allowed to play out of doors as usual ; but on the 7th the symptoms increased so much in severity, and were so evidently those of croup, that his mother applied for medical aid at the dispensary. He was accordingly seen, on the evening of the 7th, by Dr. Glen, then one of my dispensary pupils, and was ordered a warm bath and some medicine. Next morning, when Dr. Glen saw him, he desired the mother to ask me to visit the child. On going to the house I found the patient in great agony from dyspnoea. As there was no great amount of bronchitis present, and evidently no time to be lost, I caused the child to be brought to the hospital, which was in the immediate neighbourhood, and at once performed tracheotomy. Some mucus and shreds of lymph were expelled on introducing the tube ; the breathing then became easy, the lividity of the face passed away, and the little patient seemed quite relieved. * This is the exceptional case referred to at p. 1015.