CONTENTS. xii LECTURE CXII. Treatment of Hernia Ly Operation—Results—Tlie Extra-Peritoneal Operation— Tlie Ordinary Operation—After-Treatment: Local and General Pages 1164-1173 LECTURE CXIIL Complications met witli in cases of Hernia before and after Eeduction—Illustra- tive Cases—Precautions in operating which they suggest—Special Hernia',, and their Treatment—Inguinal Herniae: Direct and Oblique—Differential Diagnosis ..... . . 1174-1184 LECTURE CXIV. Differential Diagnosis of HernioB continued—Diagnosis between Hernia and In- flammation of the Descending Testicle in Children or Adolescents: between Hernia and Hydrocele, Haematocele, Cirsocele, and Special Tumours of the Cord and Testis—Eeduction of Oblique and Direct Inguinal Hernia by Taxis and by Operation in Adults and in ChUdi'en—Modifications of Oblique Inguinal Hernia—Congenital—InfantUe . . . 1185-1196 LECTURE CXV. Femoral Hernia—Anatomy of the region in both Sexes — Comparative Fre- quency of Femoral Hernia in Males and Females—Difficulties in Diagnosis, and how to meet them—Eeasons for operating early—Mode of operating— Ventral Hernia : its Nature and Treatment—Eadical Cure of Hernia—Con- sideration of the various methods for effecting it—Statistics of Operations for Strangulated Hernia ...... 1197-1214 LECTURE CXVL Injuries of the Bladder and Urethi-a : their Dangers; Treatment—Stone in the Bladder: Causes; Symptoms—Diagnosis between it and other Diseases— Prognosis as to result of Operations, according to the Nature of the Concre- tion . ....... 1215-1225 LECTURE CXVIL Operations for the Eemoval of Vesical Calculi—Lithotrity and Lithotomy: the Cases most suitable for these Operations—Preliminaiy Exploration of the Bladder, or Sounding—Lithotrity .... 1226-1238 LECTURE CXVIIL Lithotomy—Supra-pubic, or High Operation—its Dangers, and Proposals for diminishing them—Steps of the Operation—After-Treatment—Sub-pubic or Perineal Lithotomy—Different Methods—Anatomy of the Male Perineum with reference to Lithotomy ..... 1239-1251