LITHOTRITY—SEIZING THE STONE. 1235 the instrument sidewise, so as to correspond to the long axis of the urethral orifice. I then glide it downwards, bearing gently towards the right side and upper surface of the canal, and gra- dually bringing it away from the abdomen. On reaching near the sinus of the bulb, I draw forwards the penis gently on the instrument, and depress its handle, to make it take the turn and enter the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra. Then, keeping the instrument in this position, with the pressure of a single finger on the extremity of the handle, it is gently pushed along the prostatic urethra, and enters the bladder. In passing the lithotrite, no force is permissible or necessary. When the lithotrite has entered the bladder, the surgeon pauses for a moment, and then begins to search for the stone. In the position in which the patient has been placed, it is probable, that as the instrument ghdes backwards it may strike the stone at once. If it does not, the closed Kthotrite is gently withdrawn towards the neck of the bladder, and then, by turning the handle, the beak of the instrument is made to turn first to the right and then to the left side, to feel if the calculus be there; or its point is turned backwards behind the prostate in case the stone be lying close behind the gland. If not found in any of these positions, the patient should be slightly moved to try to change its position, and the lithotrite swept gently round the bladder. Some recommend that the blades of the lithotrite should be opened pretty widely and depressed, and then closed, to try to catch the stone. I have occasionally succeeded in doing this when I could not detect the calculus with the closed lithotrite, but it seems to me an uncertain proceeding, and one not to be generally recommended. Other operators recommend pressing the end of the lithotrite back towards the posterior fundus of the bladder, so as to make a depression, and then to open the blades to allow the calculus to fall into it. Various other methods have been proposed, and perhaps that of Civiale is the best. Having felt the stone with the lithotrite, he turns the beak to- wards the opposite side of the bladder, and opens the blades widely, then turning them over to the side where the stone lay.