OPERATION FOR CONGENITAL HERNIA. 1195 further examination I found a small portion of gut tightly con- stricted and highly congested protruding into the upper part of the tunica vaginalis. The constriction was relieved, and the man recovered, but the diagnosis of the case was exceedingly difficult, and most of those who saw it thought it was merely swelling of the cord, arising from a blow on the testicle. Attempts at reduction are not very likely to succeed, owing to the direction of the canal, except in young children ; in them I have frequently succeeded, but we should not try the taxis too persistently. In a young man on whom I operated without attempting the taxis at all, I found that the posterior part of the tunica vaginalis had been ruptured from the at- tempts at reduction which had been made before I saw the patient. In this case the tumour was confined to the canal, neither testicle having passed through the external ring; the swelling was large, tense, and painful, and the patient had attacks of vomiting. AU attempts by taxis had failed. My resident surgeon ordered a distending enema, and this brought away such a copious loose stool as to make me doubt the tightness of the constriction ; stUl, as the tumour was tender, I put the patient under chloroform, and cut down upon it, and found a large sac, partly occupying the canal, and partly pressing up between the parietes and peritoneum. On drawing it down, to bring its neck within easier reach, I found the sac had rent on its pos- terior aspect from the previous attempts at reduction, and on laying it freely open there was exudation of blood here and there on the surface of the bowel, showing the danger of the taxis in such cases. This patient ultimately did well. There is no peculiar difficulty or danger in the operation You make an incision over the swelling, and cut down upon the parts in the usual way. You must expose the inguinal canal and the upper part of the scrotum, and then you can easily divide the stricture without any danger, just as in inguinal hernia; but to relieve the constriction you must divide the whole length of the canal of communication from its lower to its upper opening. 4 I