XXV EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. Figs. 2 and 3. Enormous deep-seated tumour of the face and neck. Case of Mr. Jepson. See Clinical Cases. A lateral sketch of the same case is given as a contrast with a malignant cervical tumour at page 112. Plate XLVIIL—Page 1074. Figs. 1, 2, and 3. Engraved from photographs of the lad Manson, showing the position of the deep cervical growth and the result of the operation. See Clinical Cases. DISEASES OF AIR-PASSAGES.—Plate XLIX.—Page 1010. Surgical anatomy of the parts concerned in tracheotomy in the child. Fig. 1. The skin, platysma, and fascia have been reflected, exposing the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, and the intermuscular line, on either side of which the central jugular veins pass down to con- verge in the supra-sternal fossa. Fig. 2. Deeper view of the same region. The intermuscular tissue has been divided, and the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles are held aside by hooks. At the upper part of the dissection the thyroid cartilage is exposed, less angular and prominent than in the adult. .Below it we see the thyroid body, connected with which, on each side, we see the lateral prolongations of the thymus gland. The deep thyroid veins are seen partly over- lapped by the thymus gland, and immediately below the isthmus of the thyroid body, and between the veins, the trachea is seen bare at the point where it should be opened in tracheo- tomy. Externally to the prolongations of the thymus gland portions of the common carotid arteries are exposed to show the close relation of these vessels to the trachea. (Drawn from nature by J. Noble. See pages 1045 and 1046.) TRACHEOTOMY.—Plate L.—Page 1046. Fig. 1. Sketch from nature, showing a plum-stone firmly impacted in left bronchus. Lecture, page 1046 ; also Clinical Cases, page 1085. Fig. 2. Sketch from nature, showing occlusion of larynx and upper part of trachea by false membrane. Tracheotomy was performed with marked relief, but the disease extended to the trachea and bronchi below the opening, and proved fatal. See case of D. R., in Clinical Cases, page 1090. Figs. 3 and 4. The form of trachea-tube recommended. Figs. 5 and 6. The double spring hook for keeping the incision open to facilitate the introduction of the tube, or to allow the child to cough up portions of false membrane before the tube is intro- duced. The instrument is figured closed, and also with the blades expanded.