992 REGIONAL SURGERY. speculum, we can ascertain the presence and position of the foreign body, which the lever, or ear-forceps, may be used to re- move. I have already said that no violent or hap-hazard efforts should be made with instruments. In some cases I have found a stream of tepid water, forcibly injected from a syringe, succeed, when violent efforts with instruments had failed. I would advise this last-mentioned method to be used in the first in- stance in cases where glass beads are impacted, as these are liable to break in using the lever, and the fragments may lacerate the passage. After the foreign body is removed, if there be much irritation, the child should be kept very quiet, soft warm poultices applied over the ear, and other means used to allay the irritation, and obviate inflammatory action. In both children and adults insects sometimes enter and lodge in the passage, or deposit their larvae in it, and give rise to great irritation, and the cause is not suspected. When their presence is ascertained by means of the speculum, they are easily enough destroyed and removed. A few drops of tincture of iodine diffused in warm water, or a very weak solution of carbolic acid injected into the ear, speedily destroys and dislodges them. The passage of the ear is often blocked up by masses of har- dened cerumen, and the patient rendered deaf in consequence of the obstruction. In such cases the ear should be syringed with a tepid solution of bicarbonate of soda, or soap and water ; and if the masses of cerumen be very hard, the curette may be used advantageously to assist their removal. Thereafter a little warm oil should be dropped into the passage, and the patient taught to use a small syringe occasionally to prevent re-accumulation. In other instances an opposite condition is met with—a want of the ceruminous secretion, and dryness of the passage. After con- siderable experience in diseases of the ear, I believe this condi- tion to be very rare as a cause of deafness ; but it is so occasion- ally, and when present, the use of glycerine ointment—one part to eight of lard—will be found useful. It should be heated and applied with a hair pencil, and the passage should be