1308 REGIONAL SURGERY. ture, or, iafluenced by retention of urine being present, the surgeon at once begins by trying to pass a small catheter, he may not suc- ceed, but if he at last manages to get a No. 1 or No. 2 into the bladder, he may conclude that he has had to deal with a tight stricture. In such circumstances the diagnosis is not certain ; the operator has probably been making difficulties for himself, and it is not unlikely, that if he had begun with a No. 7 or No 8. catheter it would have passed with less difficulty. In all cases of a first diagnostic exploration, the surgeon should use a medium- sized catheter. If there be no organic stricture there is less risk of injuring or irritating the mucous membrane, and the instru- ment will pass more readily than a small one. If there be an or- ganic stricture, the point of arrestment will serve so far to indicate the site of the stricture. So far back as 1844 I devised a bougie with a probe point, about the size of an ordinary pocket-case probe, the stalk increasing very gently and gradually in diameter towards the handle ; this instrument I have found of great use in passing through tight strictures, and in determining in some measure the site and extent of the contraction. But the instru- ment which I consider affords the surest diagnostic evidence is the probe-pointed steel stricture-staff, such as is used in perineal section. The small probe-pointed portion of the staff, which is similar to the bougie just mentioned, will more easily pass than any other instrument through a tight stricture ; whilst the sudden swell of the thick portion of the staff is of course arrested by the organic stricture, and defines exactly the anterior part of the contraction ; whilst, if the case be not one of true stricture, whenever the probe point passes, the thick portion of the staff foUows without difficulty, and can be felt from the rectum, so as to settle completely all doubts on the stibject. We must, how- ever, be careful to examine from the rectum, and ascertain that the thick part of the staff has passed into the membranous por- tion of the urethra up to the prostate ; because, when the narrow part of the instrument passes a short stricture, and enters the bladder, the thick portion can be depressed by pushing the con- traction before it; but then, by means of the finger in the