FRACTURES OF THE RIBS. 1111 diagnosis. The best method is to ascertain exactly where the pain is referred to, and this will guide us generally to a point at or near the fracture. Then, by moving the corresponding rib, we feel for crepitus, which can usually be detected easily, or we may place the hand over the suspected part and make the patient take a deep inspiration, so as to expand the chest, and thereby produce crepitus. A fracture near the angle of the rib is said to be more difficult of detection, but I think it is not so, for if we move the affected portion of the rib by pressure anteriorly, we can elicit crepitus very easily. Sometimes the fracture may be indicated by another symptom. There may be scarcely any displacement, but we may find some emphysema present. This could only occur from a portion of the rib injuring the pleura and the lung, and causing the air to escape from it into the loose cellular tissue around the fracture. If emphysema be present after an injury of the chest, even though we cannot detect cre- pitus, we may be pretty sure that there is a fracture of one or more ribs. The presence of emphysema cannot be accounted for in any other way, unless there be an external wound. When several ribs are broken, the diagnosis is very easy, but the injury is a serious one, and the prognosis bad. I, however, recollect one case in which the sternum was broken across, the cartilages thrown forwards, and several ribs fractured, in conse- quence of a railway accident. This injury was accompanied with effusion of blood internally, and some emphysema. The patient's pulse was very weak, and at first his case seemed hope- less, but ultimately he made a good recovery, and retained no trace of the injury save some slight deformity of the chest. In cases where we have any doubt as to the diagnosis, we judge from the history. If a person receives a blow on the side, and complains of great pain on breathing, the safest plan is to assume that a fracture is present, though we may not be able to feel crepitus. The best Treatment either for a bruise on the chest or for a fractured rib, is to put a broad bandage round the chest to control the movements of the ribs. Sometimes a broad cotton