INTRODUCTION OF THE CATHETER. 1327 complete division ; very little propelling force would overcome this, as the remains of the white fibrous texture would readily yield for the time, and permit the instrument to be carried on towards the bladder; but the operation would be incomplete, and contraction would soon return. Moreover, by this same pre- caution, the introduction of the catheter is rendered more easy and certain. As regards the introduction of the catheter, we should be careful to keep the point of the instrument bearing gently on the iipper or pubic wall of the urethra, to avoid the risk of its pass- ing out through the section, and getting entangled in the tissues of the wound. Should any hitch occur, do not press on, but withdraw the instrument, and introduce it again, keeping the finger of the left hand in the wound to guide its point if neces- sary. I have already said I prefer the gum-elastic catheter to be retained in the bladder. It is best secured in position by means of a silk thread tied round the ivory mouthpiece of the instrument, the ends of which are carried back, one on either side of the glans penis, and secured by a circular strip of adhesive plaster. If a silver catheter be used, it should have a very short point. We secure it in the following manner, which is that used for securing the silver catheter under any circumstances:—A broad bandage is tied round the abdomen above the crest of the ilium. To this we fasten two perineal loops on either side. These loops are simply narrow strips of bandage, brought obliquely from under the perineum on each side, and' tied to the abdominal bandage. Through each ring of the catheter a narrow strip of oiled silk, or a piece of thin string waxed or oiled is passed, and the ends secured to the perineal loops on each side. Care should be taken not to tie the catheter too far in, nor to allow the water to flow off through it continually, because the small thickened bladder will contract on the point of the instru- ment, and vilceration of the mucous coat may ensue. This hap- pened in one of my cases, at a time when, from dread of the risk of infiltration, which was then so much spoken of, the practice was to allow the urine to flow off continuously. Since then I