HYDROCELE-.'DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT. 1359 have a feeling of elasticity not unlike fluctuation. Sucli tumours, of course, are not transparent when the light test is used; but then, in some instances, hydrocele, owing to the density of the tunica vaginalis, is also opaque ; and unless care be taken, in applying the light test, to keep the ulnar side of the hand closely applied to the scrotum, the reflected light of the taper on the convex surface of the swelling may be mistaken for transpa- rency. As a general rule, however, the diagnosis is not difficult, if we take all the circumstances of the case into account. In young children, and even in other cases when the hydrocele passes high in front of the cord, it is advisable to place the patient recumbent, and try whether the fluid can be pressed back into the abdomen, as it occasionally happens that a narrow canal of communication with the peritoneal sac continues pervious; and this would alter our mode of treatment. The fluid in hydrocele is of a pale straw colour, and fre- quently we observe sparkling or oily-looking particles floating in it; this is cholestrine. In some cases having all the ordinary symptoms of hydrocele, the fluid drawn off is colourless and slightly opalescent, and, on examination with the microscope, we find spermatozoa in it. This constitutes what is termed Sipcr- matoccle. In its general symptoms it in no respect differs from hydrocele, except that it seldom attains so large a size, and the treatment is the same in both forms of disease. The Treatment is either palliative or radical. The former consists in tapping the distended sac with a trocar and canula, and drawing off the fluid from time to time, so as to alleviate the dragging and uneasy feelings produced by the swelling. This is done in cases where, from the state of the testicle, or owing to a communication with the peritoneal sac still remaining open, the radical cure is unadvisable. The radical cure is best effected by tapping the sac, as in the palliative method, and, when all the serous fluid is evacuated, injecting two or three drachms of strong tincture of iodine, shaking the scrotum so as to bring the iodine in contact with all parts of the affected serous surface, to create excited action. The part becomes in some