REGIONAL SURGERY. 1202 swelling is at first deep seated, with impulse on coughing, and can be reduced, it is hernial. If, with all clear indications of an in- flamed or suppurating gland, the symptoms of acute incarceration or strangulation supervene, these shovild decide the prompt inter- ference of the surgeon, by cutting down on the swelling; and should his incision expose an inflamed gland or give vent to purulent matter, he must not be thrown off his guard, but pro- ceed, and make quite sure lest there be a small hernia present. I recollect, when a student, reading a criticism in a medical journal on a hospital surgeon for operating on a case of supposed femoral hernia. The article was headed, " Opening an abscess by aT incision!" Though I have since then seen a good deal of surgical practice, I know of no deadly results which would be likely to follow opening an abscess by a T incision, but I do know that leaving a hernia strangulated would be fatal. Chronic abscess formed in the loose subperitoneal cellular tissue on the surface of the fascia iliaca makes its way towards the weakest point in the same way as the hernia, and therefore bulges at the femoral ring. There is impulse on coughing, the swelling can be reduced, and even for a time retained by the finger after re- duction ; and except, perhaps, that it wants the firm elastic feeling of hernia, the symptoms are very similar, and the surgeon may be misled by the patient stating that the lump appeared suddenly after violent coughing or some other exertion. But, if there be a circumscribed fulness of the parts above Poupart's ligament, when the swelling is repressed, if the patient be pale and un- healthy-looking, or if there be pain in the back, suspicion should be aroused ; and if the patient has been trying a truss, and finds that the swelling always manages to escape from under the pres- sure, the nature of the case becomes more apparent, and gradually the increase and character of the swelling leave no doubt of its true nature. But at first the difficulty of diagnosis is consider- able. In psoas abscess, which arises under the fascia iliaca, there is not in general any real difficulty in diagnosis; the matter points lower down, bulging the fascia lata before it, and its position, in