REGIONAL SURGERY. 1038 on suffocating attacks of dyspncea. In such a case we may employ the ordinary treatment—such as the application of sulphate of copper or nitrate of silver to the throat, blisters on the neck, and cod-liver oil and iodide of potassium internally ; but we cannot trust to these entirely. There is the danger that the patient may die during one of the attacks ; and if their recurrence be frequent, I would strongly urge the operation of tracheotomy. In these cases we sometimes require to keep in the tube permanently. In one hospital case I have performed tracheotomy three times successively. The tube had been taken out when it should not, and the opening in the trachea gradually closed up, requiring the operation to be again performed. The boy's health, each time, improved very much after the operation. The improvement of the general health is often very marked. I recollect a case which occurred in Professor Gairdner's practice. I was called to see in his ward a girl who was suffering from phthisis. She was in the very last stage of exhaustion, and very much emaciated. Owing to the condition of her larynx, the suffocative paroxysms had increased in frequency and severity, and hence the demand for surgical aid. I saw her during one of these paroxysms, and at once per- formed tracheotomy. The girl was so weak that she fainted during the operation, but from that day she began to regain strength ; and within two or three months was perfectly well, and lived for several years afterwards. The marked improve- ment in the general health, after the operation, is itself a warrant for performing tracheotomy in these chronic affections of the larynx, to say nothing of the danger that, if it be not performed, the patient may at any moment be seized suddenly with oedema glottidis, or with suffocative spasm during a par- oxysm of coughing, and die before assistance can be obtained. Hence we should perform tracheotomy in these cases, as it is the only means of completely averting the danger. We can afterwards apply our local treatment to the larynx through the wound, just as we can to any other ulcer in the body. I have had a very large experience in operating in such cases, and