REGIONAL SURGERY. 1346 but the patient begins to feel an uneasy irritable condition in the perineum, and then a feeling of weight and itching about the anus and lower part of the rectum. At night the patient is often awoke by a painful erection of the penis, the organ is tense from engorgement, and curved downwards, constituting the condition termed Chordee. The erection evidently depends upon irritation of the prostatic portion of the urethra, the reflex effect being excitement and erection of the penis, which, in the inflamed state of the mucous membrane, gives rise to in- tense pain by stretching still further the swollen and inflamed membrane. The pain on micturition is generally very slight after the first fifteen days, but the discharge may continue to be con- siderable in amount and of purulent character for a much longer period. In some instances it seems to disappear, and then, without any obvious cause, to re-appear. This is most usually observed in persons of delicate or lymphatic tem- perament, or in those who have had gonorrhoea previously. In such cases the painful symptoms are less marked, but the pro- gress of the disease is generally tedious, and most frequently ter- minates in gleet. By the term Gleet, strictly applied, we mean a thin viscid and clear fluid discharge from the urethra ; but the word is often made to include chronic thin purulent discharge in obsti- nate cases of gonorrhoea. There are few conditions more annoying to the patient and the surgeon than gleet. In many cases it baffles all our remedial measures, and often, when it has yielded to remedies, it re-appears whenever they are left off. Gleet seems to depend not only on the chronic inflammation of the mucous surface, but also apparently on an affection of the mucous follicles, increasing the discharge by over-secretion of thin mucus ; and occasionally these follicles, or Cowper's glands, suppurate and give rise to troublesome complications, such as urinary fistula. In cases where the patient has previously suffered from attacks of gonorrhoea, when gleet is very obstinate, it is advisable to