108G REGIONAL SURGERY. impacted ; for while the right side expanded on inspiration, the left was flattened and immovable, the lower ribs being drawn forcibly inwards, and the respiratory murmur entirely absent. By means of flattened probes passed along the left bronchus, we attempted to reach the stone for the purpose of dislodging it ; and we tried to procure its expulsion by moving the thoracic parietes, and by every means we could think of, but without success. In consultation it was determined to take the child to town with us next morning, and try if any plan could be devised to loosen it by instru- ments or by suction. Having brought the patient to Edinburgh, a great variety of means were tried, but with no better result ; and, after a few days' illness, the child died. On examination after death, the damson-stone was found impacted in the left bronchus, fairly filling it up like a cork, and preventing all entrance of air into the left lung, which was flaccid and collapsed ; the thoracic parietes of the left side, as seen during life, were contracted and flattened. The child, at the time of the accident, was just convalescing from a severe attack of pneumonia of the right lung, the lower part of which had suflfered so as to be hepatised, while the ujiper part was engorged with bloody serum, and the bronchi loaded with mucus ; so that the child died more rapidly than would have been the case had the right lung been healthy. Remarks.—The foregoing case presents several points of inte- rest. 1st, The direction in which the foreign body was carried ; 2cl, Its impaction at the termination of the left bronchus, and the complete occlusion of the tube and collapse of the lung thereby occasioned; and Zcl, The question as to what means can be suggested for the treatment of similar cases. In regard to the first of these points, it is very generally stated that foreign bodies entering the air-passages pass into the right bronchus ; this and the preceding case, however, show that there is nothing to prevent a foreign body passing down the left bronchus. As to the second, in the case just narrated the plum-stone was much larger than in the former case, and was so placed as completely to prevent any air from entering the left lung, and hence to preclude any chance of its being forced out by an effort at expiration ; the marked flattening aud other symptoms leaving no doubt as to its position, or as to the collapse of the corre- spanding lung.