1153 CAUSES OF IRREDUCIBILITY. before adliesions take place, reduction may be gradually accom- plished by using means for reducing the fatty textures, such as low diet, and perfect rest in the recumbent position, combined with cold and graduated pressure over the hernia. I have in several cases succeeded in returning such omental hernise, some- times after this treatment had been prolonged for three or four weeks, and in some cases after a shorter probation. Thirdly, a hernia may be irreducible owing to its great bulk, and the altered capacity of the abdominal cavity. In other words, the protruded viscera have been so long and gradually dis- placed from their original cavity that they have formed a sort of new abdomen for themselves, whilst the abdominal cavity has accommodated itself to the remaining contents, and its parietes have contracted so as to diminish its capacity, and render it in- capable of receiving its former contents. This condition is some- times seen in large ventral, scrotal, and even, though rarely, in femoral hernise. The general symptoms induced by this state of matters are chiefly those of flatulent distension, and occasional attacks of pain in the hernia from irritation of the bowels; but the condition has occurred so gradually that the patients have almost become habituated to occasional attacks, and seem to suffer little and think less about the hernia, until something leads to the more urgent symptoms of threatened strangulation. It is of great im- portance, however, that the surgeon shordd bear in mind the altered relations and capacity of the protruded viscera and the abdominal cavity, in reference to operations when required in such cases ; for were he to make a very free incision, so as to lay open a large extent of the sac, his position might be very em- barrassing. All he requires to do is to divide the constriction at the neck of the protrusion, and return as much as he can of the contents, so as to relieve strangulation : he cannot expect to be able to return the whole when the abdomen is so altered in capacity in relation to the protrusion. In the general treatment of all irreducible hernige, the patient should be directed to wear a hollow truss to protect the hernia, and prevent further protru- sion occurring, and gradually to repress the existing protrusion.