REGIONAL SURGERY. 1340 supervened. After long treatment the patient was dismissed relieved, but I can hardly say cured; indeed, the state of his general health was most unfavourable for any treatment. • _ In cases where great sloughing has followed extravasation of urine, it often happens that, whilst the gap caused by the separ- ation of sloughs contracts and heals to a wonderful extent, a small fistulous opening remains. You must be very careful in your prognosis as to the curability of such a fistula. It looks so trifling that you are apt to imagine that, by dilating the stric- ture and touching the fistulous opening with the heated wire, there will be no difficulty in obtaining a cure. But you must recollect what has occurred. All the deep textures and a por- tion of the urethral wall have been destroyed, and though, by the process of cicatrisation the skin has nearly closed, it merely covers in a cavity, in which, when you pass an instrument into the bladder and enlarge the opening in the perineum, you can for an inch, or even more, feel the catheter bare. Such a case may be pronounced incurable, for the only chance of a cure is by means of a plastic operation, and the condition of parts is very unfavourable for that. I have dwelt at length on the sub- ject of perineal fistula, because, whilst the general principle of treatment and the favourable prognosis in ordinary cases con- nected with stricture are in consonance with what I first stated, the exceptions are so important and so little adverted to, that I considered it essential to draw your attention to them. Eetention of Ueine in the Female, owing to the short and direct course of the urethra and its large calibre, is not of frequent occurrence ; but it occasionally arises from malposition of the womb, as in cases* of anteversion and retroversion of that organ, and from the pressure of firm polypi, fibrous tumours, or other growths projecting from the uterus into the vagina. I have met with complete retention, and enormous distension of the bladder, arising from accumulation of the menstrual discharge in a case of imperforate hymen. Eetention of urine may also occur during labour, if the attendants neglect to have the bladder emptied