CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1077 scription. I mentioned tliat these were the conditions which decided me in operating in Mrs. Jepson's case, although other surgeons had declined. Contrasting the history and vital manifestations of the tumour in her case with those of the cases operated on by John Bell, Warren, and Liston, in which complete removal had been found impossible, and in which the groAvth had returned, I pointed oiit that the histories of the latter cases showed evidences of malignant character, which, in my opinion, rendered operation improper in the present state of our knowledge; but that, so far from deterring from operative interference in favourable cases, they rather gave encourage- ment, by showing how much could be done even under unfavour- able conditions. Unfortunately, the proportion of malignant cervical growths is much greater than of those suitable for interference. Out of a very large number of such tumours which I have seen, especially since the successfiil operation on Mrs. Jepson—with the single exception of the present case—I have met with none in which operation would have been warrantable (I do not include ordinary parotid tumour), as they were all marked by the characteristics of malignancy. When the tumour has been of rapid growth from the first, is of irregular consistence, and presents the general features of malig- nant disease, I believe that the propriety of operative interference is very doubtful, as the chances of complete removal and ultimate successful issue are very small. Even though there be con- siderable mobility and apparent definition, such growths very generally arise from or involve at an early period the transverse processes of the vertebrae, whilst their superficial margins feel loose and defined. Mobility of the tumour, though an important consideration in deciding on the question of operation, is only of real value when taken in conjunction with the nature of the growth. A malignant tumour may not only adhere to, but involve, the great vessels and nerves, and yet be very movable, for these structures, being loosely connected in front of the vertebrae, move readily along with the morbid mass. In my