1216 REGIONAL SURGERY. The urethra may also be lacerated without any external wound in the perineum, in consequence of the person falling astride a bar or rope, or from some similar accident; or in consequence of in- direct violence, as, for example, from a weight of earth falling on the lower part of the back when the person is stooping. Such an accident may cause more or less separation of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, or even of the pubic symphysis, and the mem- branous portion of the urethra gives way at its inferior aspect. Hence, in all cases where we have injury of the pelvis, it is a wise precaution to pass a full-sized catheter at once, before the patient tries to make water, for, if the urethra be ruptured, part of the urine would be extravasated into the tissues, and give rise to infiltration of urine, with all its disastrous effects. In the cases where the urethra is ruptured from the person falling directly upon the perineum, there is generally bleeding from the orifice of the uretlira, and extravasation of blood into the textures of the perineum. The latter condition is sometimes the cause of considerable difficulty in passing a catheter into the bladder, for the extravasated blood displaces and compresses the torn ends of the urethra, so that they no longer correspond. The treatment in such injuries is to pass a gum elastic catheter into the bladder at the very first, before much effusion of blood has occurred, as the catheter can then be generally passed with ease, if the point is kept bearing gently along the upper or lateral portion of the canal, so as to prevent its point passing through the laceration, which is almost invariably in the floor of the urethra. "When much blood is effused it requires great care and skill, by gentle and patient manipulations, to guide the catheter along the canal. So great indeed may be the difficulty that you may even require to incise the swollen perineum, to turn out the clots ; and then, with the finger in the wound, guide the catheter onwards, or open the urethra further back. If the patient has attempted to pass his water, and there be much swelling in the perineum, an incision in the line of the raphe should be made at once, as the proba- bility is that the urine will have been extravasated amongst the coagula, and unless it gets vent, it will lead to very serious.