1172 REGIONAL SURGERY mass firmly constricted, and the protruded omentum cut off close below the ligatures, which are then cut short, and the upper portion of the omentum reduced. Or, the neck of the omental protrusion being firmly grasped, the surgeon cuts away the bulky portion, and ties each bleeding point separately. I have treated such cases very frequently in both ways, and can- not say I have ever seen any bad results fairly referable to the section, whether the ligatures were applied by tying the vessels individually, or simply by constricting the neck of the protru- sion as described. If the omentum, even when not bulky, pre- sents any doubtful appearance of commencing gangrene, there should be no hesitation as to its removal, as the fat with which it is loaded has but little vitality, and is not likely to recover when reduced. The local after-treatment of gangrenous herniee, in which a portion of the gut has been cut away, consists in applying a fold of lint soaked in warm water, and covered with gutta-percha tissue over the wound; favouring the escape of the fseculent discharge, and paying great attention to cleanliness. There is at first a fulness of the mucous surface of the intestine, causing it to project, so that it forms an obstacle to the passage of the faeces; and there is also a loss of tone in the intestines, so that they cannot propel their contents as usual; hence the surgeon often requires to introduce his finger, or inject some tepid water, to help the faeces to pass away. This distended and convoluted state of the bowel is one which is very common, and which is often fatal in peritonitis, even where there is no gangrene, from the obstruction it gives rise to. Supposing, however, the patient to go on well, we require to consider the question how the artificial anus which results is to be cured. The two portions of intestine connected to the mesentery at the root of the loop of the protrusion lie at first parallel to each other, and the contents of the bowel pass completely from the orifice of the upper portion through the opening. The lower part has a tendency to become contracted, for there is nothing passing through it. After a time, however, owing to the contraction