1368 REGIONAL SURGERY. sists in dilating tlieir external orifices freely, and injecting a little tincture of iodine along their track, and then compressing the testicle by adhesive strapping. In cases where this fails to effect its object, we must fairly slit up the sinuses, and treat them as ordinary sinuses. When the gland is traversed by sinuses in all directions, with small depots of unhealthy pus in its substance, the function of the organ is destroyed, and the least painful and most effectual treatment is removal, and this should be done before the gland becomes largely adherent to the scrotum, as the operation then becomes much more difficult and tedious. At one time the fungoid testicle was looked upon as a malig- nant disease, and castration was resorted to for its removal. Sir William Lawrence pointed out that the disease was quite differ- ent in character from malignant fungus, and that by shaving off the more prominent part, and applying some mild escharotic or stimulant astringent wash, the skin would heal over it, and that, therefore, castration was not required. Following out a sug- gestion of Professor Goodsir's, who found that the protruded part contained the healthy tubular structure, merely separated by in- terstitial deposit of lymph, the late Professor Syme proposed to save the protrusion by dissecting the surrounding integuments of the scrotum, and bringing them over the fungus. The pressure of the integuments, and the excitement following the operation, led to gradual absorption of the interstitial deposit, and the gland was thus saved. I have frequently performed this operation, and always with success, so far as repression of the fungus was con- cerned ; but in several cases the gland saved soon became so atrophied, that I should doubt if its functions were retained. Still, in many instances, it does succeed perfectly, and is in all cases preferable to castration. But in cases where the patient is very weak, or where there is a syphilitic taint, hereditary or acquired, I would advise the method proposed by Sir William Lawrence as preferable to the more severe operation, as in such circumstances the dissected scrotal integument is apt to be affected by un- healthy action, instead of uniting over the protrusion.