1250 REGIONAL SURGERY. and ramify on the lower part of the levator ani, and ultimately supply the lower part of the rectum. Some of these branches are necessarily divided, both in the lateral and bilateral operations of lithotomy, but seldom bleed much, and can be easily secured if they do. A little more anteriorly the pudic gives off the superficial perineal, a large artery, which supplies the more superficial textures of the region, and ultimately passes to the scrotum. This vessel pierces the obturator fascia, turns round the transverse perinei muscle, giving off small twigs which run parallel to the edge of that muscle, then continues its course obliquely upwards and forwards, lying along the internal surface of the erector penis muscle, and covered by the superficial peri- neal fascia. This artery must often be cut in the lateral opera- tion, especially if the incision is not begun close to the raphe ; but, as it lies superficially, it can be readily secured. M. Eoux, however, observed, that if the surgeon lateralised his knife too much, and divided the artery near its origin, it might retract within the obturator fascia and simulate wound of the pudic; and when we consider that the vessel is stretched, by the scrotum being drawn up during lithotomy, I think that M. Eoux's sug- gestion shows the necessity of beginning the incision close to the raphe, and not carrying it too far out towards the ramus of the ischium. The branch of the pudic of most importance in reference to lithotomy is the artery of the bulb. This vessel arises from the pudic trunk, about fourteen lines in front of the anus, and crosses the perineum between the layers of the triangular ligament, sends off a small twig to Cowper's gland, and then enters the spongy portion of the urethra, immediately above the pendulous portion of the bulb. It is in general a short vessel, about the size of one of the digital arteries. On entering the spongy por- tion of the bulb it immediately subdivides into numerous minute twigs, which assume the peculiar arrangement of the erectile texture. It is not so much the size as the dej)th of this vessel, and its short origin from the pudic, that render it so dangerous a source of bleeding if wounded in litliotomy. In the ordi-