xxiii EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. Plate XLI.—Page 824.—The patient Robert Davidson. After primary amputation at the hip-joint for injury.—See Clinical Cases. Plate XLII.—Page 838.—The patient M. W. Showing result of am- putation at the hip by double flaps (as recommended at p. 820).—See Clinical Cases. INJURIES OF THE HEAD.—Plate XLIII.—Page 866. Fig. 1. Intra-cranial extravasation of blood from injury of the middle meningeal artery, in a case of fissure of the cranium. The symptoms were at first those of concussion : the symptoms of compression came on rapidly after reaction set in. From original sketch by Dr. James Moore. Fig. 2. Fungus cerebri following a compound comminuted fracture of the cranium caused by gunshot. (Case of A. BosweU. See Clinical Cases, page 922.) Fig. 3 is a sketch of the brain from the same case. A section has been made which exhibits the relations of the fungous protrusion, and the cavity of an abscess, filled with broken-down clots and pus, in the brain-substance at the base of the fungus. (Sketched by Dr Lauder). Fig. 4 shows intra-cranial suppuration arising from a blow on the cranium. The purulent collection is placed between the bone and dura mater, whilst a collection of unhealthy sanious pus corresponding to the internal suppuration is situated externally between the bone and pericranium, constituting Pott's Pufi'y Tumour. Dr. Caton. INJURIES OF HEAD, FRACTURES OF THE CRANIUM, AND OPERATION OF TREPAN.—Plate XLIV.—Page 896. Fig. 1. Diagram to explain the views of Mr. Vincent as to the direction of the impulses on the contents of the cranium from blows inflicted at different parts of the skull. See page 862. Figs. 2 and 3 are views of the interior and exterior of a sharply-depressed fracture, supposed to be caused by a blow with a hammer such as is used for breaking stones. The faint dotted line in Fig. 2 indicates the position where the base of the depressed fragment should be sawn across, to enable the surgeon to remove it with- out using the trephine. See Lecture zciv, page 898. Fig. 4. Sketch from John Bell's Surgei-y, illustrating the advantage of iTsing the cranial saw instead of the trephine in certain cases. See Clinical Cases, page 928. Fig. 5. Sketch from Sir Charles Bell, showing the result of the operation of trepan. The plan in this figure shows the fracture from the interior, and its relation to the circle of bone removed to allow of the fragments being removed or elevated.