REGIONAL SURGERY. 1162 place. The causes of death after operation are invariably due to changes taking place in the sac, or hernial protrusion prior to the operation. I feel satisfied that in cases of incarcerated hernia the fatal results depend rather on the state of the parts prior to the operation, and on delay in operating, than on the operation itself, which involves scarcely any risk to life ; and it should therefore be performed without undue delay, when it will pro- bably be necessary at last. We are sometimes advised to wait until urgent symptoms come on, but this is very wrong. What is the use of waiting for the urgent symptoms ? The very accession of these shows that the bowel has undergone changes which would render the operation much less likely to be of use. Another point often insisted on is, that in small hernise, such as the femoral, we must be quite sure we have to deal with a hernia. We are told sometimes it may be a gland, for there is no impulse in the tumour; but in a very tightly-strangulated hernia we cannot expect impulse, and this is merely a greater reason for operating, as the part is so tightly constricted. I never yet felt any impulse in the tumour, when the bowel was thoroiighly strangulated; and the want of impulse is a sign that the bowel is completely and tightly strangulated. As regards the tumour being a gland, or a collection of matter, the diagnosis is to be found in the history and symptoms of the case. In doubtful cases, operate. If it be a gland or an abscess, an in- cision over the tumour will do no harm whatever; but if it should be a hernia, and if we delay the operation, waiting for urgent symptoms, we are risking the patient's life. I have repeatedly met with objections of the kind above alluded to, but I have always operated wherever there was the slightest doubt; and I have never yet operated without finding a hernia present, and this experience, conjoined with the great general principle, justifies me in strongly advising the operation. Several years since I looked over the results of 127 cases of hernia in which I had operated, and in these there were 26 deaths : in 17 out of the fatal cases the gut was