DIPHTHERITIC CROUP. 1035 cliance of success.—Whatever the greater chances may be in ordinary croup, I can see no grounds on which we can hope for its being useful in diphtheria. Indeed, I do not think the operation warrantable until the laryngeal obstruction or spasm is well marked ; because it superadds new sources of irritation and risks of its own, such as that of the disease attacking the wound; and thus the operation might deprive the patients of chances of recovery which they would otherwise have. I trust, however, I need hardly say that I do not mean to advocate delay when the laryngeal symptoms are marked and progressing; for then unnecessary delay entails the risk of the supervention of congestion or cedema of the lungs, and so diminishes the chances of success of the operation. In the After-treatment of Simple or Diphtheritic Croup, where tracheotomy has been performed, one thing ought to be attended to—namely, the form of tube—as this is important. It ought to be of such a size as will admit air freely, without over-distending the trachea, and should always be double, the inner tube fitting pretty closely, but not secured to the outer, either by spring or other fastening, so that it may be easily removed for cleaning, or expelled by the efforts of coughing, if obstructed by mucus. The inner tube should also be long enough to pass beyond the outer one, so that we may be sure that there is no obstruction to the passage of air through it; for if the inner tube be clear, and longer than the outer one, all is right. The tube should not be tied in too tightly, for fear of interfering with the venous circulation, and there should be no knot near it. We must of course see that the tube is introduced fairly into the trachea, though it must not be inserted too deeply. When there is much bronchial effusion, the use of emetics in the after-treatment is very beneficial; but under no circumstances would I now resort to antimony, for its effects are most dangerous in diminishing the expulsive power, depressing the patient, and inducing sinking. I am glad that my opinion on this head is strengthened by the high authority and great experience of M. Trousseau. In all respects I find ipecacuan answer better, either 3 Y