REGIONAL SURGERY. 1194 ing towards the abdomen—nothing but what feels like a slightly swollen and hard spermatic cord, so firmly is the gut embraced throughout the whole length of the canal; and then the bowel, emancipated iu the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, becomes dis- tended and congested, and tightly nipped above by the sharp resisting margin of the lower opening of the canal. These are what I consider the essential dangers of the con- genital rupture. But it is evident that they will be much in- creased, if, as often happens, a large portion of gut has sud- denly been protruded, in consequence of some violent effort or force. Then, even slight efforts at reduction only make matters worse; and in such a case I have seen the coUs of small intestine highly inflamed, matted together, and at some points gangrenous, even in the course of sixteen hours ; whilst in another I have seen the peritoneal coat of the intestine abraded and cut by the stricture, and the bowel inflamed, in less than six hours from the time of descent, where the patient had been very restless, and had made violent efforts at reduc- tion. On the other hand, if only a small portion of bowel has passed beyond the lower margin of the canal of com- munication, or where the bowel has been somewhat protected by a portion of omentum, I have found, even after the lapse of thirty hours, not much more alteration than in an ordinary case of hernia. In one case, that of a young man aged about twenty- one, who had suffered from hernia as a child, the hernia came down suddenly while he was at his work. I saw him sixteen hours afterwards, but on operating I found a very large quantity of gut in the tunica vaginalis, which was much inflamed and adherent. In another case, a man received a blow upon the testicle, and complained of pain and sickness when I saw him. The general opinion of others who saw him was that it was acute hydrocele. I thought, however, that it was a case of hernia, and I accordingly cut down upon it; for even if it had been an acute hydrocele the incision would have done no harm, while, if it was a hernia, it was the only safety for the patient. I found a quantity of serous fluid very like that of a hydrocele, but on