OPERATION OF PRE RE JACQUES. 1255 bladder. Subsequently compound dilators were used, wbicli give enormous power to the surgeon, and with, these the parts were still more torn and lacerated than before. This method, though very fatal, was more successful than we should expect, for, considering the force used and the way in which the parts were torn and bruised, the wonder is that any survived. The operation on which the present lateral operation is founded, was introduced into France by an itinerant monk, the famous Fr^re Jacques. His operation, as he first performed it, though itwas rapid and successful in regard to extracting the stone, was uncertain in its results, owing to want of precision as to the parts cut in opening the bladder. He used a sound without any groove, and having passed that into the bladder he plunged a dagger-shaped knife into the perineum, close to the left tuber ischii, carrying it deeply, towards the sound in the neck of the bladder, and at the same time cutting forwards in the perineum and inwards towards the raph4 so as to make a cut much in the position of the ordinary lateral incision. The stone was then extracted with the forceps or hook. This operation, like that of the gripe, was very uncertain, but it proved so much more suc- cessful than that by the apparatus major that it attracted the attention of surgeons, who taught Frere Jacques the anatomy of the parts. He then substituted a grooved staff for the plain sound, and made his incisions more methodically. His later operations were eminently successful; the number of cases on which he is said to have operated in different parts of the Conti- nent seems almost fabulous. It is very curious that the instruments which I show you, which are those still used by the native operators in the north- west provinces of India, are almost identical with those employed by Jacques in his first operations, namely, the ungrooved staff, dagger-like knife, and forceps with one handle, in the form of a lever-hook. I shall now describe and demonstrate the method of perform- ing the Lateeal Opeeation of Lithotomy with the curved staff and knife.