REGIONAL SURGERY. 1234 quire two of these—one powerful, and having the end of the female blade fenestrated ; the other the scoop lithotrite, in which the flattened end is hollowed to receive the end of the male blade, but not fenestrated. The former of these instruments is intended for crushing the stone in the first operation, and is fenestrated to permit the larger fragments to be thrown out from between the blades, and should be very powerful and cut from the solid metal. The other is used in the after sittings, to reduce the fragments to sand, and hence no opening is made in the end of the female blade. Both instruments act on the same principle, and have two movements. As I use it now, you will observe it acts with a sliding movement, so that I can readily open and close the blades, and use a certain amount of per- cussion, by pressing on the handle of the lithotrite with the ball of my thumb; but when with the point of my thumb I draw up the small button-slide towards the handle, I at once convert the movement into the powerful screw action ; and this again can be altered by pushing down the slide. This form of lithotrite, therefore, enables the surgeon to use it with great facility. The preliminary arrangements for, and the earlier steps in the operation of lithotrity, are so similar to or identical with those of sounding just described, that I shall only briefly reca- pitulate them here. The patient should have the lower part of the bowels cleared by an enema about an hour and a half before the operation, and should be told to retain his urine. Should his bladder be too irritable to retain a sufficient quantity of urine, the surgeon must in that case inject six or seven ounces of tepid water into the bladder, using the precautions I mentioned when speaking of sounding. The patient should be placed on a firm table, lying on his back, his head moderately raised, and a pillow placed under his hips, to elevate the pelvis, and favour the calculus falling backwards. In using the sound or lithotrite, I prefer to stand on the left side of the patient, and then, having warmed and thoroughly oiled the fenestrated lithotrite, I introduce the broad flattened beak of