OVARIOTOMY. 1375 gery. We shall therefore limit our observations to that part of the subject with which every surgeon ought to be familiar, namely, the steps of the operation ; and refer you for fuller in- formation regarding the whole subject to the works of Clay, Spence^ Wells, Keith, Bird, and others. It would be great injustice, however, to speak of ovariotomy, now an established operation, and to omit the name of John Bell, who first pro- posed it, or of John Lizars, who first boldly carried it into prac- tice in this country, in the face of the almost unanimous opposi- tion of the profession. One or two major points of diagnosis will at once suggest themselves to you, and you would not be justified in proceeding to operate without satisfying yourselves with regard to them. Thus the site, size, definition, mobility, fluid or solid character of the tumour, and any tenderness, must be considered, together with the various phenomena discovered by careful auscultation, and superficial and deep percussion. These must be considered in the light afforded by the age, history, and habit of the patient, together with the progressive symptoms of the case. Having satisfied yourself as to the propriety of operating, your next object must be to do so with the least possible risk to the patient. Due attention must therefore be paid to the hygienic surroundings as regards locality, air, light, cleanliness, and the arrangements for subsequent nursing. The operation consists in opening the abdomen, exposing the tumour, tapping the cyst or cysts, supporting the tumour so as not to strain the pedicle, securing the vessels by ligatures or clamp, finally remov- ing what remains, and closing the external opening by sutures. During the operation, the surrounding surface of the abdo- men should be carefully protected from blood and other dis- charges w^hich may issue from the wound, or from the surface of the cyst, during the necessary manipulations. This is best effected by spreading over the abdomen beforehand an apron of india-rubber sheeting, with an oval opening in the centre, made to correspond with the site of the proposed incision. The edges of the under surface of this opening are smeared with carbolised