TAXIS IN OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 1187 the aperture, together with the worm-like sensation the distended veins have, and the peculiar kind of impulse when the patient is made to cough, are usually sufficient to decide the surgeon as to the true nature of the case. At the same time, I have seen some few cases where, from enormous dilatation of the veins, and from serum apparently being effused amongst the constituent textures of the cord, the swelling in cirsocele has very closely simulated a scrotal hernia. Tumours of the testicle can hardly simulate hernia, but some soft malignant tumours of the cord closely resemble it as to position and relation to the testicle; but then all the other symptoms are different, and the history of the case is usually quite sufficient to decide its true nature. We now proceed to consider the method of returning an obKque inguinal hernia by Taxis or operation. In this form of hernia the canal is oblique; and if taxis is to be applied here, let us see how it is to be done. It must, of course, be applied in the axis of the canal, i.e. obliquely, upwards and outwards, towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and the last part of the pressure must be applied directly from before backwards, when we have reached the upper opening. In ap- plying the taxis we must bring down a little portion of the bowel, as before mentioned, to try and free it from the constric- tion. The obstacles to the reduction of this form of hernia by taxis are the margins of the external ring, which do not in general, however, form any very great obstacle : then there are the muscles covering the hernia, which should be relaxed: although they do not absolutely constrict the protrusion, yet they oppose reduction. It is at the deep ring and over the neck of the sac that the resistance is greatest; but it is only when there is incarceration that there is any difficulty, for in most cases of inguinal hernia we can pxit two or three fingers into the opening, and therefore the taxis is not generally very difficult. In children the canal is not oblique, and the two openings lie nearly opposite each other. It is only as development proceeds that the canal becomes oblique. We must remember this as