1124 REGIONAL SURGERY. the sterno-clavicular articulation. The clavicular attachments of the stemo-mastoid and pectoralis muscles were next divided. In doing this there was pretty smart hemorrhage from numerous small vessels. I now divided the clavicle a little external to the exposed diseased portion, and tried to raise the divided extremity so as to pull it forwards from the great vessels. I found, however, that I could not effect this, owing apparently to some muscular attachments which had not been completely divided ; these I divided fully, when I could see the bone thickened and irregular, owing to the deposition of new bone. I then dissected around this carefully ; and Mr. Goodsir attempted to draw the bone forwards, by means of a pair of strong tooth-forceps, which I had brought on purpose, in case of difficulty. The dense and firm strixctures, however, prevented it being raised, so that I had to dissect the extremity of the bone cautiously, as the condensation extended as far inwards as the position of the great vessels. Whenever the mass of condensed tissues was wholly divided, the bone was raised and drawn outwards and forwards from the chest ; then, by keeping the edge of the bistoury directed obliqi;ely towards the clavicle, I divided the rhomboid or costo-clavicular ligament, and the other remaining attachments, and by using the free portion of the clavicle as a lever, I was enabled to disarticulate it readily from the sternum. Although there had been smart bleeding during the performance of the operation, only three small vessels required ligature. The consolidation of the parts, and the diseased state of the skin, prevented the greater part of the edges of the woimd being united by suture, and in the site of the removed bone there remained a very ugly-looking fossa, in which the pulsation of the great arteries could be seen and felt. This cavity was filled slightly with charpie, and supported by a bandage. After the patient was placed in bed, and had recovered from the effects of the chlo- roform, an opiate draught was exhibited. I saw him again on the 15th of April, when he was suffering from an attack of bronchitis, to which he had been long subject. He had a constant harassing cough, but was expectorating freely. The impulse of the cough- ing was communicated strongly to the wound, which was suppurating freely, and healthy granulations were beginning to spring up. With the exception of the cough, he was going on favourably. Warm-water dressing was aj)plied to the wound, and he was allowed nourishing diet. As the accounts I received from Mr. Falconer continued favourable, I did not visit him again till the 24th of April. The cough had then almost entirely left him, and he was sitting up with the arm in a sling ; the wound was covered with granulations, and contracting rapidly. For a few days previous to my visit, the red lotion had been applied to the wound. From this time I did not see him again till the 7th of May, when the wound had comjjletely cicatrised. Little treatment beyond the occasional applica- tion of escharotics to the exuberant granulations had been requii-ed : his general health and appearance had much improved, and he now slept well at night, and was free from pain. I saw him again in September ; there was very little falling in of the shoulder of the side from which the clavicle had been removed. His general health continued good, and he had for some months been at his usual emjiloyment of a labourer.