THE LARYNGOSCOPE. 1043 played ; but in the majority of instances this valve overlaps the vocal cords so much as at first to hide all but their posterior extremities from view. If, however, the patient be desired to sing a prolonged note, rather high in the scale, it will be drawn upwards so as to expose them posteriorly to a considerable extent. The anterior extremities are rarely or never brought into view. If the patient be now desired to take a long breath, the glottis will at once be thrown open to its widest extent, and in many cases a good view may be obtained of the upper, and sometimes even of the lower rings of the trachea. The beginner will find the use of the instrument by no means easy, on account of the delicacy required in its manipula- tion ; but with patience he will easily overcome most of his difficulties. It is of great importance to make the examination deliberately, and in such a manner as not to alarm the patient. The most common difficulty arises from excessive irritability of the fauces ; and this is greatly increased if the patient be excited or alarmed. It is well in all cases to pass some little time in conversation after arranging the light, so as to allow all nervous- ness of your patient to subside, especially as the first trial at a sitting is usually the most successful, the majority of throats becoming irritable -khen repeatedly touched by the mirror. There are some patients whom, owing to exceptional formation of the parts, it is impoissible to examine successfully with the laryngoscope; but these are very few in number. Where irri- tability is so excessive a.s to render your first attempts futile, it is well to repeat the trial from day to day, until the throat be- comes accustomed to the touch of the mirror ; and in such cases it is recommended that the bromide of potassium be adminis- tered internally, in full doses, so as to allay any existing hyper- fEsthesia ; but of course this plan of treatment can only be adopted when the circumstances of the case will admit of delay. In the case of foreign bodies in the air-passages, the laryngo- scope is likely to prove exceedingly valuable. With its aid the surgeon is enabled to make oiit the exact nature and situation of