1161 DANGER OF DELA Y IN OPERA TIONS. great deal of irritation and tenderness in the part, independently of the hernial symptoms, and the hernia itself is engorged from venous congestion. The cold relieves this local irritation and con- gestion, and causes contraction of the vessels. It also diminishes the distension of the gut itself, and by condensing the gaseous con- tents, lessens the bulk of the protruded mass. These are the means which I would advise you to use as auxiliaries to the taxis. The patient should be put thoroughly under chloroform be- fore the taxis is attempted. If the bowel is not so tightly con- stricted as to prevent its being returned by taxis, we will be able to reduce the hernia under these circumstances if the taxis be pro- perly applied. In a case of femoral hernia, for example, we bring the hernia down to the axis of the canal through which it has passed ; and now we must not press upwards, as that would only press the hernia upon the margins of the opening, but rather draw a little portion down, and then gradually try to pass the hernia back, bit by bit, into the abdomen. When once a small portion is got through the opening, the rest of the gut soon follows, with a peculiar gurgling sound. If we find that the taxis properly applied fails to reduce the hernia, then we should lose no time in operating, for I believe that any further persistent attempts at reduction by the taxis, owing to the manipulation, delay, and the risk of peritonitis, are much more dangerous than the operation itself In many cases, if the hernia has only been down for twenty-four or thirty-six hours, and if the symptoms are not very marked, we can return the bowel by the extra-peritoneal operation, i.e. without dividing the sac of the hernia at all. Thus we only cut through skin and fascia, and this cannot cause any great risk ; but in the taxis, we cannot tell how the part is constricted—we may be pressing the intestine against the sharp margins of the ring, and so cause very serious lesion. Often on operating we find that the taxis has done harm. We must of course give the taxis a fair trial, but do not put off too long with it; there is no risk, I hold, in the operation itself, whether extra-peritoneal or by opening the peritoneum, if done early, and before changes have taken