REGIONAL SURGERY. 1126 the muscular attachments and dividing the clavicle "with the saw, that bone can readily be drawn forwards, and the edge of the knife kept close to the part to be removed, I should think the operation would be both more readily accomplished, and with much less risk. As to the disarticulation at the sternum, that is effected with- out much difficulty, for when the incision of the integuments over the joint is free, and the rhomboid ligament attaching the clavicle to the rib wholly divided, the articulation is easily opened from above and anteriorly, and then, by using the bone as a lever, it can be twisted so as to divide the posterior part of the capsule, with scarcely any risk to the pleura or great veins ; besides, the strong layer of the deep fascia, the origin of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, and generally a layer of fat, lie between the knife and these important parts; so that, if ordinary care be taken, they can scarcely be injured; and, if further security were required, the use of a probe-pointed bis- toury, to divide the posterior part of the capsule, would, I conceive, preclude any chance of accident in this part of the operation. Case of Emphysema and Pneumothorax following Fractured Eibs. Thomas T—, setat. 5 years, admitted into tlie Eoyal Infirmary Jime 13, 1857, about 6 p.m., having been run over by a cab a few minutes before admission. One wheel had passed over his neck and the other over his chest, the latter having rested on his body a few seconds, according to the report of the police. On admission his condition was as follows :—There was great emphy- sema of face, neck, and upper part of chest, rather greater on right side. There was extreme difficulty of breathing, very great lividity of lips and countenance, and the expectoration was tinged with blood. The larynx and trachea were apparently uninjured. The fracture of the ribs could not be distinguished on account of the great amount of puffy swelling, and the pain caused by any attempt at examination. On percussion of chest both sides were found resonant, but the right side gave a clearer and more ringing note than the opposite side. On auscultation, which was diffi- cult, from the great amount of superficial crepitation and restlessness of patient, the ordinary respiratory sounds were audible over the left side, but considerably exaggerated. On the right side they were absent, inspir-