1418 REGIONAL SURGERY. a soft poultice, for a few hours before opening the gut, diminish this risk; and I have for some time adopted this in my practice as a general rule. The cases 2 and 5 were cases in both of which the strangulated intes- tine had suffered to the extent of threatened gangrene in the protruded knuckle. In the case of Mrs. Dalziel, an old woman above 70, the rupture had been down five days, but as the symptoms did not become urgent till thirty hours before admission, she had not applied for medical aid. In Patterson's case, the symptoms had proceeded rapidly, and become very urgent in less than thirty hours. In both, the small portion of intestine in the sac was tightly constricted, of a dark claret colour, and mottled with grey spots ; but the intestine above the constriction was healthy, and not distended or inflamed. In cases of this kind I adopt the practice I followed in these cases, viz., of dividing the stricture very freely, gently replacing the intestine within the margin of the ring, but leaving the dark part visible, and the woimd open, and merely placing a fold of lint soaked in warm water over the wound, retained by a single turn of a bandage. Thus, if sphacelation or ulceration of the dark portion of the gut does occur, the faeces pass out at the wound, and this gradually diminishes, and ultimately the faeculent fistula closes completely ; whilst in other cases the gut regains its vitality when the stricture has been relieved, and the case, as in the instance of Mrs. Dalziel, goes on uninterruptedly to a cure by contraction and granulation. In most cases, if a fteculent fistula is to form, it begins to show itself between the sixth and eighth day ; but in Patterson, the wound, though carefully watched and dressed, in expectation of a fistula forming, seemed to heal well, though slowly, and after eight weeks she left the hospital wearing a truss. Some weeks afterwards a small abscess formed, and then small quantities of thin fseces occasionally passed ; but now the fistula is almost entirely healed. I have never seen that condition occur so long after the operation in any other case, and I think it is most likely that the pressure of the truss not carefully applied had caused irri- tation and abscess under the cicatrix, which may have perforated the adjacent bowel. Mrs. Notman's case (4) is a very instructive one, as exhibiting the diffi- culties which often complicate our diagnosis in cases of hernia ; and as it ■was impossible in the abstract of the case to give a full idea of these, I think it well to draw attention to them. The abstract of her case states briefly the facts observed on admission, viz., that along with symptoms of strangulation, there existed in the left inguinal region a cyst-like swelling, globular, and not painful, easily pushed back witliiu the lower part of the canal, but reappearing whenever the pressure was removed. She stated that this swelling was always present, but that sometimes a larger swelling came down ; all that could be felt high up in the canal was an undefined hard- ness near the deep ring. In the right inguino-fenioral region there existed a swelling about the size of a walnut, hard, but elastic at the most prominent part, tender to the touch, and occupying exactly the position of a femoral hernia. Looking at these local conditions in conjunction with the symptoms, everything would have favoured the idea that the swelling in the femoral region was most likely to be the seat of strangulation. Fortunately, how- ever, I knew something of her case ; for about a year previously she had consulted me about the swelling in the right groin, supposing it was a