CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1419 rupture. The stony hardness of the tumour at that time, and the general cachectic look of the woman, left no doubt on my mind that it was a cancer- ous gland, probably connected with malignant disease of the uterus ; which opinion was confirmed by examination with the speculum, showing decided cancerous affection of the os uteri. Hence, when I now felt the elastic swelling, I at once concluded that the elasticity was due to the progress of softening, and not to any portion of gut jDrotruded behind the swelling. But, on the other hand, there was little doubt in my mind that the round cyst- like swelling did not contain strangulated intestine, for there was no con- tinuous neck to be felt: it was quite defined and globular. The hardness and tenderness at the position of the deep inguinal ring was what appeared to me the suspicious point. I accordingly explained to the students present that I would cut down upon and lay open the inguinal canal, and expose the deep ring fully, in hopes of finding a portion of strangulated intestine there, but that if nothing was found there, then I would (liowever unwill- ing) consider it my duty to cut down upon the cancerous mass in the femoral region, in case a small hernia might have descended and be strangu- lated behind it, as the urgent symptoms were unmistakably those of strangulation. On laying ojjen the left inguinal canal, I found, as I suspected, a very small knuckle of intestine, tightly constricted by the neck of the sac, the constriction appearing to proceed upwards within the deep ring; this was cautiously divided, and the gut gently examined and returned. I now found the globular cyst lying loose in the lower part of the canal, and on tracing the opened sac downwards, I found it had evidently at one time formed a part of it, as, though I could not press out the contents of the cyst, there was a minute opening of communication which admitted an Anel's probe. I laid the cyst freely open and evacu- ated its serous contents, and then dressed the patient in the usual manner. The line of practice followed in this case seems to me the proper treat- ment under similar circumstances. I think it important always to bear in mind, that although we may from previous knowledge be sure that a tumour (such as that in the right groin in this case) occupying the position of hernia is really glandular or cystic, yet, if at any time symptoms of strangulation occur, we should recollect the possibility of hernial descent taking place behind it, and act accordingly. The case of the lad Mason is valuable as illustrative of the dangers peculiar to the congenital form of inguinal hernia, and also as it serves to direct attention to some dangers connected with the treatment resorted to, to facilitate reduction by taxis. The cases of Reilley, Duncan, and Steele (3, 6, and 8) were ordinary cases of strangulated femoral hernia, where the strangulation had not existed very long. In the first two the sac was opened, because from the one hernia having been down thirty-six hours, and the other having been sub- jected to violent attempts at reduction by the patient and her neighbours, I had doubts as to the state of the contents of the sac. Whilst in the last case, that of Mi s. Steele, the hernia being quite recent, no imdue violence having been used, and the constriction evidently caused by the textures external to the sac, there was no reason for doing more than dividinglhese, emptying the sac of its contents, and then invaginating it. 4 z