- viii CONTENTS. and Treatment—Compression and Concussion of the Brain—Symptoms of Concussion: its General Treatment . . . Pages 853-863 LECTURE XCII. Rationale of Treatment of Head Injuries founded upon the Pathological Conditions attending them—The immediate and more remote Dangers following Reaction in Concussion : Symptoms attending them ; Indications to be derived from these—Active and Passive Extravasation : Diagnosis of its Site—-Inflammation of the Brain and its membranes—Suppuration within the Cranium—Evacua- tion of the Pus by Perforation . . . . . 864-876 LECTUEE XCIII. Injuries of the Cranial Bones—Contusions—Fractures—Ecrasement or Smash— Fractures with and without Depression, as Fissures, and Simple, Compound, Compound Comminuted, and Punctured Fractures — Fractures of Base of SkuU—General Symptoms and Treatment exemplified by Cases . 877-889 LECTURE XCIV. Hernia Cerebri; its Nature, Causes, and Treatment—The Operation of Trepan : Instruments required for, and Mode of performing it; how modified by the Nature of the Injury—General After-treatment—Brief Statement of the Cases where Trepan should be performed .... 890-901 LECTURE XCV. Injuries of the Spine : their similarity to those of the Brain—Concussion of the Spine : Objective and Subjective Symptoms which characterise and accom- pany it; Indications of Treatment—Fractures and Dislocations of the Spine : their Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Treatment—Tumours of the Scalp : Cystic, Fibro-Plastic, Malignant, Vascular-Erectile ; the Diagnosis and Treatment of each—Cirsoid Aneurism or Arterial Varix—Necrosis of the Cranial Bones 902-933 LECTURE XCVL Injuries of Face—Contusions—"Wounds—Wounds implicating the Portio Dura— Wounds implicating the Parotid Duct, and leading to Salivary Fistula— Treatment of Salivary Fistula—Wounds of or near the Orbit—Ectropion— Ptosis—Removal of Eye—Extirpation of the whole Contents of Orbit—Ob- struction of Nasal Duct—Fistula Laclu'ymalis : Bowman's Operation for its Prevention ; old Operation—Fracture of Bones of Nose—Foreign Bodies in Nostril—Epistaxis and its Treatment .... 934-944