1055 PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS. more easily cut down upon ; but, as a precaution, a probang, or metallic sound, should always be held in contact with it. From want of attention to this simple precaution, I have seen a surgeon cut upon the cricoid cartilage, and open the air- passages, which caused a very disagreeable complication. The omo-hyoid muscle, if in the way, should be divided. The oesophageal swelling, caused by the foreign body or probang, is readily recognised, but the operator should dissect carefully, lest the recurrent laryngeal nerve or the inferior thyroid artery should be between him and the oesophagus. The longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus being recognised, the knife is passed through the mucous membrane, and the finger introduced into the oesophagus. The opening need not be large, as the muscular fibres dilate readily. A tube is then passed by the nostril into the stomach, and retained, to enable the patient to be fed, until the wound in the oesophagus has healed. The Diseases of the Pharynx and CEsophagus, to which I would direct your attention as coming within the domain of Surgery, are Pharyngeal Abscess and the different forms of Stricture of the Oesophagus. PharynCtEAL Abscesses are either lateral or posterior. La- teral pharyngeal abscesses are those circumscribed abscesses which occupy one side of the pharynx only, immediately behind the tonsil. They are very difficult to diagnose, and may be mis- taken for a/neurism of the internal carotid artery, and vice versd. They project inwards towards the mucous surface, and there is often a feeling of pulsation from the close proximity of the abscess to the large vessels of the neck. The history of the case may guide us. Such abscesses generally occur in rheumatic patients, and there are pains in the neck and about the back of the ear, which are premonitory of a pharyngeal abscess forming ; and so far these symptoms are diagnostic, but still they are not suffi- cient. In some cases I have been able to make sure of the disease by passing two fingers into the mouth, so as to let them rest upon the surface of the swelling, and in this way we can sometimes feel whether it is the pulsation of an aneurism or