LATERAL OPERATION. 1257 raphe and the tuber ischii, inserts his knife close to the left side of the raph^, about an inch and a quarter in front of the anus, and cuts obliquely downwards and outwards, so that his incision terminates at or a little beyond the lower margin of the anus, and about midway between the anus and tuber ischii, or rather nearer the tuberosity. I believe a great deal depends on the way in which this incision is made. The knife should be inserted deeply at first, and the incision deepened as it passes backwards. We shall thus have a clean decided cut, which should divide the skin, fat, superficial fascia, and the transversus perinei muscle. The surgeon then runs the edge of his knife Kghtly over the resisting muscular and fascial textures, and, inserting the fore- finger of his left hand deeply about the middle of the incision, pushes it upwards in the direction of the sub-pubic arch. The soft textures are readUy displaced by the finger, and he feels the groove of the staff thinly covered, just in front of the prostate. He turns the pulp of his left forefinger towards the staff, and inserts his nail in the lower margin of its groove, and, guiding the knife over his left forefinger, lodges its point in the groove, and feels it fairly in contact with the metal of the staff. He then lateralises the blade, and, keeping the back of the point of his knife in close contact with the staff, carries it steadily along the groove, through the prostate, till the point of the knife is arrested by the termination of the groove. (Plate liii. Fig. 2.) He now feels all resistance cease. The surgeon then withdraws the knife steadily from the prostatic incision, without cutting laterally ; but, as he withdraws it from the more superficial.part of the wound, he presses aside the rectum, and cuts downwards and outwards, and divides any resisting texture which may have escaped division in cutting towards the staff The operator then glides his left forefinger along the staff, through the pro- static incision into the bladder, and by a gentle lateral and downward movement he dilates or splits up the prostate, and touches the stone. If satisfied that the incision is sufficient to permit extraction, he desires the assistant to withdraw the staff, and then introduces the lithotomy forceps along his finger into the