RETENTION OF URINE FROM PARALYSIS. 1281 sion to cut down upon the spongy portion of the urethra in order to reach the stone lodged in the sinus of the bulb. In one case of retention of urine I passed a gum-elastic catheter without much difficulty, and without feeling or expecting to find a stone, and drew off the urine ; but I discovered that I could not with- draw the catheter. On examining the perineum I at once felt the cause; the catheter had, in its turn, become impacted between the upper wall of the urethra and two large calculi, contained in the dilated sinus of the bulb ; and as these could be easily felt, I cut down upon and removed them, and left the catheter in the bladder for thirty-six hours. Sir Astley Cooper and others have recommended us to extract calculi from the urethra by means of an instrument formed for the purpose with expanding prehensile blades. But it is difficult to open these blades when in the urethra, so as to grasp the stone, and even if we succeed in this, it is difficult to effect extraction; so that this mode cannot always be trusted to. The best plan is to press the calculus forwards to as near the meatus as possible, and then eject it, or, if too large, increase the orifice by incision. If it be placed farther back, then fix it in front of the bulb, and cut down upon and extract it. Eetention of urine may arise from injuries of the urethra or bladder, but these injuries and their treatment have been already discussed. Another cause of retention of urine is Paralysis of the Bladder. This arises from affections of the nervous centres. It may occur, like paralysis of other parts of the body, without any apparent immediate cause, or it may arise as a direct result from injuries of the spine. Cases of the latter class seldom do well, for the original injury leads to changes in the mucous membrane of the bladder, which, in their turn, lead to decomposition of the urine contained in it, and this again to a low form of inflamma- tion in the coats of the bladder, which often causes a fatal result. This is the simplest case in which the introduction of a catheter is necessary, for if there has been no previous stricture