1205 OPERATION FOR FEMORAL HERNIA. face of the fascia lata, and these two laminse close below Pou- part's ligament, and form the falciform process, and the lower crural arch the constricting edge. In the taxis, therefore, we relax this edge, but scarcely Poupart's ligament. In applying the taxis, after using the general means formerly mentioned, we bring the tumour, if it be a large one, from off the surface of the abdomen, and press it directly upwards, after bringing it into a line with the axis of the opening through which it has passed. In most cases, at an early period, we can thus reduce the hernia easily, but sometimes the textures offer great resistance to reduction, and the bowel becomes so altered in its relations and proportion to the opening, that we can no longer return it. If left long unreduced, the sharp margins of the constriction would cause great mischief, and therefore in femoral hernia operation should be resorted to early. In operating for femoral hernia, we should see the falciform edge and parts immediately over the neck of the sac. We therefore make an incision, with this object, over the whole length of the tumour, if small from above downwards, and I generally make another slightly oblique along the line of Poupart's ligament. In very fat patients I make a crucial incision. I then divide the skin and super- ficial fascia, push aside any glands, and secure any vessels which may bleed. When the superficial fascia is fully divided, the body of the hernia is released, and appears like a rounded protrusion lying loose, and generally tilted up over Poupart's ligament, as shown in Plate lii. Fig. 3. The smooth texture covering the hernia is generally the cribriform fascia, but we may have to cut cautiously through two or three layers of condensed cellular tissue before we come to the sac. We should try the extra-peri- toneal operation, if the hernia has not been very long down, for we see the neck of the sac very distinctly, and by touching the constriction lightly with a bistoury, we cut through the re- sisting fibres. If we find that the indentation is effaced, and that the sac becomes more distended, then the constriction is