URINARY CALCULI. 1221 deterioration of the general health, and especially of the nervous system, and when this occurs in young persons the prognosis is still more unfavourable, for in them there is not the same natural tendency to the deposition of phosphates that there is in the old. In the young, when there is great irritability and much pain, with alkaline urine, the chances of a successful residt after lithotomy are doubtful. Even after the operation in some instances we find the margins of the wound coated by the white salts, showing the tendency to the deposition of phosphates from the urine. The phosphatic calculi may form originally in the prostate, and then they do not indicate any constitutional disturbance, but depend on the nature of the prostatic secretion, and consequently are not necessarily unfavourable cases for operation. The oxalate of lime, or mulberry calculus, is excessively hard and dense, of a very dark brown colour, and presents a peculiar nodulated appearance. It derives its name from its form and colour. When present it causes great pain in the bladder from two causes, first, from the rough irregular surface of the stone, and also, even when the sharp points are not present and the surface is quite smooth, from the sensitiveness of the nervous system present in oxaluria. In some instances the mulberry calculus attains a large size, but most generally, owing to the intense pain it occasions, the patients apply for relief before it has be- come so large as other forms of stone. In the uric acid calculus we find the stone composed of dif- ferent strata. It is occasionally coated with phosphates and urate of ammonia. The phosphate of lime calculi are excessively brittle, even though the nucleus be composed of uric acid. A calculus may attain a very large size, and may be of almost any form. A patient suffering intense pain from stone in the bladder may, under some remedy such as lime water, be completely relieved for a time, and think he is cured of the stone ; but the real state of matters is, that the patient was suffering from a uric acid or mulberry calculus with rough surface, which was the cause of the intense pain at first. Owing