REGIONAL SURGERY. 1400 is absent the bladder falls downwards and backwards into tlie pelvis. This precaution having been taken, the operator should incise the integument exactly in the position of the anal depres- sion. The point of the narrow bistoury should be inserted at the anterior part of the depression, with its edge directed towards the coccyx, and carried back to beyond the posterior margin of the depression, then a transverse cut is made on each side, so as to make a crucial incision and give room to introduce the finger. In those cases where no trace of the anal depression exists, the surgeon must judge of its position by the relation of the tuber- osities of the ischium and other parts of the perineum. The first incision should be carried deeply through the textures, so as to open into the lower part of the pelvic outlet, and the finger is then introduced along the hollow surface of the sacrum, the point directed very slightly upwards, but never forwards, for the lower cul-de-sac of the peritoneum with the contained viscera might be wounded. In general the cul-de-sac of the bowel can be felt when the child cries, or when the abdomen is pressed upon by the assistant. By passing the narrow bistoury or a flat trocar and canula upwards in the direction indicated, the bowel is punctured and some meconium escapes. A probe-pointed bistoury is then introduced into the aperture so made, to enlarge it, and allow of the free escape of the meconium, and subsequently of the faeces. Figure 3 in Plate Ivii. gives a plan of the opera- tion, and shows the relation of the contracted bladder and peri- toneal sac to the pelvic cavity and cul-de-sac of the imperfect rectum, but it is very rare indeed that the finger can be intro- duced as there represented to gixide the knife ; the space is too small We must feel for the gut with the finger, and then withdraw it, and guide the knife by the information so received. In some cases I have managed to introduce a tenotomy knife over the finger to open the bowel. When the opening is enlarged, if the cul-de-sac be placed very high, we should try by gentle pressure and traction to bring it down nearer to the surface, otherwise there is risk of effusion of fseculent matter lodging in the hollow of the pelvis and lead-