1263 BILATERAL OPERATION. performed on anatomical and scientific principles. The external incision is placed rather less than an inch in front of the anus, and is of a curved form, the concavity of the curve looking back towards the anus, the horns of the incisions directed towards the hips, and about 2J or 2f inches in extent. A staff grooved on the centre of its convexity, and somewhat more curved than the ordinary staff, is introduced prior to the operation being com- menced, and held in the usual manner by an assistant. The in- cision I have described divides the skin, fat, and fasciae, down to the muscles and central point of the perineum. The connec- tions of the sphincter ani and other muscles at the central point are divided, the lower part of the rectum pushed backwards, and the bulb of the urethra pressed forwards. The forefinger of the left hand is then passed deeply at the centre of the wound, to feel the groove of the staff in the membranous part of the urethra, and from the very convex form and open groove of the staff, it is usually easily felt. The membranous urethra is then opened freely, so as to expose the groove, and the operator inserts the beak of the double lithotome cache—a special instrument for double section of the prostate. The closed lithotome is glided along the staff with its concavity towards the groove, until it is felt to enter the bladder and touch the stone; then the concavity of the lithotome is turned back towards the posterioi-^surface of the bladder and prostate. The staff is, in general, withdrawn, so soon as the surgeon satisfies himself that the lithotome has touched the calculus in the bladder. The extent of the prostatic incision is determined by adjusting the projection of the blades of the lithotome previously to the opera- tion, by means of a screw moving on a graduated scala The concavity of the lithotome having been turned towards the in- ferior aspect of the bladder, and having its beak projecting within the cavity, the operator then opens the blades by pressing on the lever spring at the handle, and withdraws the instrument steadily downwards through the external incision. The prostatic incision is then gently dilated by the finger, the