1218 REGIONAL SURGERY. with the late Dr. John Taylor of this city, and in which I drew off the nrine with the catheter at the first, and subsequently, until the man's death, there was not even a tinge of blood in the urine, and yet the bladder had been fairly transfixed by a portion of the fractured pelvis. It has been proposed that, when the urine is effused into the peritoneal sac, the recto-vesical cul-de-sac of the peritoneum should be punctured by means of Pouteau's trocar, as it is supposed that the urine wUl naturally gravitate in that direction ; but in reality, the urine is effused amongst the viscera ; and in the post-mortem examinations I have wit- nessed of patients who have died from such injuries, I have never seen any such amount of fluid in the inferior cul-de-sac of the peritoneum as would afford an indication for puncturing it. Be- yond using the catheter, and treating the general symptoms, I fear we can do but little in these almost hopeless cases. (See case of ruptured bladder in Clinical Cases.) In approaching the consideration of Stone in the Bladder, I need hardly seek to impress you with the importance of the subject, for there is no disease, either medical or surgical, the treat- ment of which has attracted so much general attention. All kinds of secret medicinal agents have from time to time been vaunted as solvents of the offensive body, and a British parliament, with a view to benefit the public, once voted a large sum to purchase the secret of one of these, the efficacy of which was strongly vouched for. The wonderful remedy turned out to be lime- water ! Whatever use may result from medicines used internally in preventing the formation of stone, or correcting the conditions in the digestive functions which lead to its formation, or in allaying the symptoms, I fear that when a stone is formed we must trust to surgical procedure for its removal. Injection of fluid solvents into the bladder has been proposed and tried, but an acid or alkaline solution sufficiently powerful to act energetically on the calculus would be stiU more likely to act detrimentally, if not destructively, on the coats of the bladder ;