1135 PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. for the colon has been punctured through carelessness in operating. It sometimes happens that in cases of acute or subacute perito- nitis a form of acute ascites takes place; but interference in such cases is generally disastrous. The fluid drawn off forms a gela- tinous mass as it cools, and the temporary relief afforded by its removal is soon followed by fresh exacerbation of peritonitis, accompanied with typhoid symptoms. In such cases the symp- toms must be very urgent and painful to warrant interference ; and from what I have seen I would say it is better not to inter- fere at all. When, however, you have satisfied yourself of the propriety of performing paracentesis, the operation, though a simple one in itself, requires some careful arrangement of the patient. If the fluid be carelessly or too rapidly drawn off, fatal syncope might be induced, or distended veins suddenly deprived of the equal flui(^ support might give way, and internal bleeding prove fatal. The patient should be seated on the front of the bed, supported by pillows. A broad cotton binder, split at each end into three tails, is placed round the patient, the ends crossed behind, and given in charge to two assistants, who, by drawing in opposite directions, tighten the binder as the fluid escapes, and thus keep up equal pressure on the abdomen during the operation. A longitudinal slit is made in the bandage in middle line, so as to enable the surgeon to ascertain the position of the umbilicus. The point of election for puncture is about midway between the umbilicus and pubis, or rather nearer the umbilicus. In all cases the patient should be made to empty the bladder, or the catheter should be used as a precautionary measure, to ensure the bladder being below the level of the pubis. The operator then enters the trocar and canula exactly in the middle line corresponding to the linea alba, at the point of election already indicated. If he uses a large trocar, he should, as he withdraws it from the canula, place his finger slightly over the orifice to moderate the gush at first, and then the binder is gradually tightened as the fluid is drawn off; and when the operation is completed, the split ends are brought round and pinned in front