FOREIGN BODIES IN LARYNX. 1015 I have seen many more cases in point, and from what I have seen, I consider that when there is any doubt, the safest plan—if there be a good history of the case and reliable symptoms— is to perform tracheotomy as soon as possible. Opening the trachea in these circumstances is not in itself a dangerous opera- tion, and it may be the means of saving life. The foreign body may be either loose or impacted. When it is a portion of food that causes the symptoms of suffocation, it generally stops at the top of the air-passages, and does not pass downwards.* We should therefore always examine the back part of the mouth with the finger, so as to detect the presence of the mass, and remove it at once. It is generally stated that foreign bodies, passing downwards from the larynx, naturally find their way into the right bronchus. Now the right bronchus is cer- tainly larger than the left, but its communication with the trachea is not more direct; and, in my experience of cases, where the exact position of the foreign body could be ascer- tained, I have found it has always been in the left bronchus. In one case—that of a little girl—while I was performing tracheo- tomy, the foreign body was loose, but the expulsive effort ceased just as the plum-stone appeared at the opening, and it slipped down the left bronchus, impacting itself so far down that it could not be extracted. A tube was inserted as usual into the throat, but the child was suffering from pneumonia, especially in the right lung, and died shortly afterwards. In another case, a child was said to have swallowed a plum- stone ; but no symptoms came on till the next morning, when the patient was seized with a violent paroxysmal cough. When I saw the child it was cold and moribund. I opened the trachea at once, and introduced a tube, and then the respiration became normal, and the patient began to recover ; but the foreign body was evidently not expelled, though we could not discover it, for on closing the tracheal opening for a moment the difficult breathing at once returned. Bronchitis in this case soon came on, and the child died. At the post-mortem we found, in one of * There may be exceptions to this—(see Clinical Cases).