CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1403 the ring. Having divided some sharp resisting fibres at that point, I next proceeded to reduce the contents of the sac ; but after reducing some con- volutions of the gut, I found that the intestine seemed to be firmly fixed below ; and on opening the hernial sac, a little farther down, I exposed a rounded fleshj'-looking mass, evidently adherent to the scrotum by its outer surface. Its appearance was singular, resembling somewhat a portion of the large intestine twisted round the lower part of the loop of the small intestine, which had been partially reduced, and some of those present thouglit it was an intus-susception of the bowel contained in the hernial sac. As, however, it was evident that its circumference strangulated the other portion of bowel, it was resolved to notch its edges slightly with the bis- toury, at different parts, so as to try and relieve the bowel embraced by it. So tight was the constriction, that I could not introduce the probe-pointed bistoury between its edge and the intestine, and was obliged at first to divide from without inwards. When the stricture was thus relieved, the true nature of the case was at once seen—viz. that the fleshy-looking sub- stance surrounding and strangulating the intestine was a small subdivision of the lower part of the sac, greatly thickened, altered in structure and appearance, separated from the upper portion of the sac by a firm, narrow neck, and closely adherent to the scrotum below. The bowels were then reduced, a compress and bandage applied over the wound, and a large opiate draught directed to be given immediately. I saw him again at 3 p.m., and found that he had had no return of the vomiting or hiccup ; the bowels had not yet acted, but the enema had just been given before I called. His pulse had fallen to 96, and he expressed himself as much relieved. At 8 P.M. his pulse had fallen to 86, and was soft; he had had one evacuation after the enema ; he said he felt much better, complained of no pain on pressing the abdomen, except in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound. I directed him to take half-an-ounce of castor oil, to obtain a free motion from the bowels, and to have another opiate at night. I offered to send a person to watch him, but his friends stated that they had pro- cured one of his own relations, a sick-nurse, for that purpose, whom he would prefer to a stranger. I left strict orders to keep him perfectly quiet, and to let me know at once should any unfavourable symptoms appear. I heard nothing further till next morning, when, on my way to visit him, I met a person coming for me, who said he had not been quite so well during the night; and on entering his room, to my surprise I found him moribund, and no one in the room with him. From his landlady I then learnt that no sick-nurse had ever been in attendance, and that his brother and some acquaintances had sat up with him ; that they had given him, at his own request, a quantity of porridge and beer, shortly after which the vomiting had recommenced, with pain in the belly ; and these symptoms had been allowed to go on without ever sending for me or Mr. Lawrie. Every effort was made to procure a post-mortem examination of the body, but without success. Commentary.—The points principally worthy of remark in the case are —1st, The unusual position of the seat of the stricture, viz. in the body of the 4 Y