WOUNDS IN THE CERVICAL REGION. 1007 controllable bleeding following an operation on a hsematocele of the thyroid proved fatal. I do not, however, think perchloride of iron a very safe styptic in such a vascular organ, lest embolism or thrombosis take place, in consequence of small clots being carried into the circulation. M. Porta has proposed that in multilocular cysts, and even some more solid forms of thyroid tumoiirs, we should enucleate cysts or portions of the structure by making incisions into the gland. He founds his plan on the ground that the great vessels of the thyroid body ramify on its surface, not in the interior, and that if we avoid these large vessels the enucleations can be effected without risk of haemorrhage. I cannot, however, with the recollection of what I have seen in operations for haematocele of the thyroid, recommend this method as free from the danger of bleeding. It is quite true that the main vascular trunks principally ramify on the surface of the gland, but their minute ramifications are in the interior, and constitute an almost erectile tissue in the interstices of the cell portion of the gland, and it is from this texture that the risk of haemorrhage occurs. In ordi- nary solid tumours the discutient plan is safer. Wounds in the Cervical Eegion, implicating the Throat, CEsophagus, and Air-passages, are of great importance. They may be either accidental or suicidal. The latter are generally transverse, as the suicide endeavours to cut into the air-passages. In this he generally fails, by stretching his neck, and so cutting above the larynx, while he seldom or never divides the great blood-vessels. I have seen, however, a wound of the jugiilar, whilst the carotid was intact; and, on the other hand, I have tied the carotid for a small wound in its walls. The branches of the lingual, facial, and thyroid arteries are generally cut, while, as I said before, the main tri;nks are rarely injured. The lingual artery itself is seldom divided. The wound has a frightful look, large and gaping, it stretches from side to side, and there is a gurgling of air and venous blood. Bleeding must be arrested at once. The sides of the wound being compressed by the fingers, it