1014 REGIONAL SURGERY. so. This statement rendered the case rather doubtful; but the difficulty was stiR further increased by another circumstance, namely, that during one of the violent paroxysms the girl had coughed up the plum-stone, which might apparently have pro- duced all the symptoms. Fearing, however, that the cherry-stone might also have found its way into the air-passage and be still un- expelled, I suspended her with the head downwards, and shook her, so as to make it drop out if possible, but this produced no effect. There remained no difficulty of breathing, but, taking all the circumstances into account, I thought it prudent to have her removed to the hospital, where she might be carefrdly watched. I saw her two or three times during the evening, but she was still quite quiet, and remained so all night. Next day, however, at visit she was seized with a violent paroxysm. I immediately performed tracheotomy, and the cherry-stone was ejected through the wound. The following case may form a contrast:—A little child about a year old was brought into the hospital. She had been playing with some peas, and was supposed to have swallowed some of them. On admission, the child was quite quiet, and there was nothing apparently the matter witli her, and it is worthy of remark that, neither in this nor in the preceding case, could we hear the peculiar valvular sound somtimes pro- duced by a loose body lying in the air-passages. Tracheotomy was therefore not performed at the time, but she was care- fully Avatched in the hospital for some days, and while there passed a few peas by stool. The mother then insisted on taking her home, thinking she was quite sure that all the peas had been evacuated; but on the very night of her removal the child died from sudden suffocation. A pea had become lodged in the air-pass- age, and had produced no irritation, until, in the process of swell- ing by the moisture, it had split into two halves, when a cough or expulsive effort had forced one of the halves into the larynx, and so induced fatal spasm. Now, in this case, had the child been left in hospital, tracheotomy could have been performed at once, and her life would in all probability have been saved.