1220 REGIONAL SURGERY. in whicli it is most common, I think we shall find evidence of some common cause leading to derangement of the digestive organs, as, for example, in the food not being very digestible ; while in other parts of the country, where the diet is different, the disease is more rare. There are four different forms of urinary calculi generally recognised, but we must keep in mind that a urinary calculus very generally consists of strata of different salts. The Litkic or Uric Acid deposits are far the most common either as gravel or stone. Uric acid calculi vary in colour from a reddish orange to a dark brown colour, are hard and consistent, sometimes rough on their surface, at other times quite smooth and frequently of large size. The White Salts—phosphates of lime, and the triple ammonio- magnesian phosphate—form calculi, white, very friable, and often of large size. Oxalate of lime forms the " mulberry " calculus. Cystic oxide, which is an exceedingly rare calculus, is of a pale yellowish tinge and rather firm consistence. There are certain points to be attended to as regards these different kinds of urinary calculi, with reference chiefly to the prognosis of the disease, and the probability of a favourable result after operation. When the calculus consists of pure phosphate of lime, or of the triple phosphate, the prognosis is not, as a rule, very favourable. This form of stone occurs in old people, or in those whose general health and nervous system have been much shattered, and where there is a large elimination of the phosphates from the system. This generally indicates an un- favourable condition of the patient, but at the same time we must look to all the circumstances of the case. It is very common for example to find the main body of the stone composed of uric acid, whUe outside there is a layer of phosphates, de- posited in consequence of the chronic inflammation of the bladder, and from the urine being at times phosphatic. But when the whole body of the stone is composed of phosphates the prognosis is unfavourable, because phosphaturia generally shows a great