1399 IMPERFORATE ANUS: OPERATION. escape detection till the absence of evacuation of meconium attracts attention, and leads to the discovery of the malformation. Sometimes the occlusion is quite superficial and membran- ous, so that the distended bowel causes it to bulge, and the dark colour of the contained meconium can be seen through the thinned integument. In other cases the rudimentary anus is separated from the termination of the bowel by the thickness of an inch or more of intervening cellular tissue, and not unfre- quently the bowel is found to communicate with the vagina in the female, or the urinary bladder, or more usually the urethra, in the male. In some instances no trace of the anal depression is to be seen, and this indicates that the malformation is in an extreme form, and that the cul-de-sac of the gut is placed high up in the pelvis. In many cases of imperforate anus other congenital malformations exist, and the most frequent is imperfect develop- ment of the kidneys. In one infant on whom I operated, where the gut terminated high up, the child lived for three days, and died with well-marked symptoms of urtemia, scarcely a table-spoonful of urine being secreted during its short lifetime. The whole interior of the bladder was studded with dark nodu- lated masses like effused and hardened blood, and there was scarcely any trace of the kidneys, except a cyst attached to the ureters. In other cases I have seen similar conditions. In regard to the Operation for Imperforate Anus, that will be modified by the nature and extent of the malformation. In the simpler forms all we require to do is to take advantage of the swell- ing of the distended bowel when the infant is crying, and to make first a longitudinal and then a transverse incision, and introduce the tip of the little finger and dilate it, and nature will keep the orifice open. When the rectum terminates high up, we must proceed more carefully and methodically. We must keep in mind the small size of the pelvis, and the relations of the bladder and internal iliac vessels. The bladder should be emptied by a cathe- ter, to diminish the risk of its projection being mistaken for the cul-de-sac of the rectum; because, when the lower part of the gut