REGIONAL SURGERY. 1350 and robust, and the symptoms acute, great relief will be experi- enced from the application of leeches to the verge of the anus. Of course, under these circumstances, the most absolute rest is necessary. The most troublesome stage, or rather consequence of gonorrhcea, is the chronic form of discharge termed gleet. It often baffles all remedies for a time, and runs its own course in spite of them. This condition is, I believe, most likely to be prevented by commencing the use of astringent and slightly stimulating injections when the discharge of gonorrhoea becomes thin, and the pain in micturition has nearly disappeared, and it is at this stage that I think the use of cubebs in moderate doses, along with eight or ten drops of the muriated tincture of iron, diffused in a large proportion of water, is most beneficial. At the same time the strictly antiphlogistic regimen, necessary in the acute stages of gonorrhoea, should be relaxed, and some wine allowed, at first in small quantity, but gradually in- creased unless it re-excite the pain. When gleet is fairly established, the remedies, local or constitutional, most generally useful are those of a tonic or stimulating character. Internally, the use of cubebs and iron, or of sulphate of zinc in doses of one or two grains twice a-day, combined with Chian turpentine, and extract of gentian, are what I find most serviceable. In some patients I have found sulphate of quinine act beneficially. Zinc and alum injections, and occasionally passing a bougie, are the local remedies in which I have the most confidence. Gonorrhoea in the female differs in some respects from the disease in the male, both in regard to its symptoms and treat- ment. In the female the disease may be, and often is, confined to the vagina, and as that passage has no necessary connection with the urethra, the symptoms are often only heat and pain in the vagina, and swelling of the vulva, followed by the purulent discharge, and unless the urethra becomes affected there is no heat or pain in micturition, nor any other affection of the urinary organs. When these organs, however, do become affected, then of course all the symptoms of urethral inflammation occur as in