CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1089 but this case was even more complicated, because tlie convulsive cough had expelled the plum-stone, and there was therefore a probability of the smaller body having also been expelled. When I saw the patient, her breathing was easy, both sides of the chest expanded naturally, her voice was quite natural, and she spoke freely. The only positive symptom was a somewhat croupy sound when she coughed ; but her mother stated that any cold or irritation always produced that symptom in her ever since she had had hooping-cough, two years before. On examination with the stethoscope over the trachea and chest, neither my friend Dr. Dunsmure nor myself could detect any sound indicative of a foreign body moving in the air-passages. I thought, indeed, that there was a peculiar sound a little below the right sterno-clavicular articulation ; but nothing decided, or at all like what I have heard in other cases of foreign bodies in the trachea. But, in opposition to the view that the stone had been expelled, the girl stated that she felt the cherry-stone go down when the plum-stone was expelled, and that she still felt it at times in her throat (pointing to the trachea). The cherry-stone could not be found anywhere near where she had been playing ; and Mr. Adams, a yoiing medical man, who first saw her, dis- tinctly stated that the symptoms were those of a foreign body having passed into the trachea. Under these circumstances, having everything prepared for tracheotomy, we determined to ascertain the presence of the foreign body by inverting the patient and shaking her, so as to throw the stone (if in the air-passages at all) towards the larynx, and render the vsymptoms of its presence unequivocal. This was a somewhat hazardous experiment, but safer than leaving the question in doubt. As even this manoeuvre produced no cough or paroxysm, our doubts as to the presence of the stone in the trachea or bronchi became greater. I therefore recommended that she should be taken to my wards in the Infirmary, where she would be care- fully watched, and where surgical aid could be had at once, if necessary.