1322 REGIONAL SURGERY. forming the contraction, passing the catheter onwards into the bladder, and retaining it there for forty-eight hours at first, and introducing it occasionally to re-establish the course of the urethra. This, however, was a most uncertain and difficult opera- tion, as in the method adopted there was no guide to the posterior part of the canal amongst the altered textures, and when suc- cess was attained it was by chance. When I come to speak of puncture of the bladder, I shall point out how, by using a modi- fication of the foregoing operation, the membranous part of the canal can, with certainty, be reached, so as at once to relieve the retention and re-establish the canal. But, as a method of treating stricture, the boutonniere is certainly not one which T should recommend, and I would specially guard you against confounding it with Mr. Syme's method of perineal section, which I shall immediately describe. Division of the stricture from within has long been prac- tised, especially on the Continent. I can hardly conceive any method more uncertain and dangerous. If the form of instrument used is such as not to pass within the contraction, but is only passed down to the stricture, and the lancet then projected with the intention of dividing the obstruction, it is quite as likely to cut the less resisting textures and form a false passage. If, on the other hand, the instrument is to pass within the con- traction, before the lancet is projected, then a stricture which would admit an instrument of such a size would not require such a hazardous operation. In any form of division of the stric- ture from within with cutting instruments, the risks of bleeding and infiltration of the spongy texture of the urethra must be very great, and for niy own part I consider it a method which should never be adopted. Perineal Section for division of urethral stricture, as pro- posed by the late Professor Syme in 1844, and performed on the principles laid down by him, differs essentially from any of the foregoing methods for section of the contraction. It is an operation admirably adapted for the treatment of certain forms