1029 DIPHTHERITIC CROUP. As regards the causes and mode of death in diphtheritic, as contrasted with ordinary croup, I shall—to save repetition—divide the fatal cases into two groups, according to the mode of death. Under the first head I shall arrange tliose who died of asphyxia, from the exudation developing itself beyond the opening in the trachea, or into the minute bronchial tubes. Of these cases one was a child about two and a half years old, who had been xmder treatment for diphtheria, when urgent croupous symptoms super- vened. The operation was resorted, to, and was followed by great temporary relief. But next day dyspnoea returned, and the child died. In another case, that of a fine boy about eight years old, who had suffered, but was recovering, from slight sore throat, symptoms of croup supervened, and became so urgent that I was called to operate. This was attended with great relief, and all promised well, when diphtheritic exudation appeared, at first on one tonsil, and then gradually spread. The pulse rose, and the patient became more restless. Though the tube was kept clear, and changed several times, the breathing became embarrassed. Air passed easily out and in, and the walls of the chest seemed to expand; but it was clear, from the lividity, restlessness, and dyspnoea, that the exudation must have ex- tended to the minute ramifications of the bronchi, thus prevent- ing aeration of the blood. In the case of a little girl about five years of age, the symptoms appeared after the disease had lasted for eight or ten days, and were so urgent that I operated im- mediately. The relief was complete at the time, and for twenty- four hours all promised well; when suddenly difficult breathing recurred. This was relieved by changing and cleaning the tube ; but that gradually failed to relieve, and she ultimately died in a si;ffocative paroxysm, apparently from the exudation having ex- tended downv/ards. Now this form of death—the extension of the mechanical obstruction downwards below the opening in the trachea—is very like what takes place in ordinary croup. The second and larger group of fatal cases is formed of those patients who died from the sixth to the twenty-first day after the operation, in consequence of asthenia, the effect of the