CIRSOCELE AND VARICOCELE. ' 1363 when the patient coughs, are so peculiar as scarcely to be mis- taken. I have already discussed the diagnosis between this disease and scrotal hernia, and pointed out that the diagnostic chiefly to be trusted is, that if after reduction of the swelling, when the patient is recumbent, pressure be made over the in- guinal ring, and he then assumes the erect position, in the case of a cirsocele the varicose veins will rapidly become tense, whilst a hernia would be retained by the pressure of the fingers. Cirso- cele is generally met with in young men, and frequently causes great mental anxiety and depression, in consequence of the idea that it may lead to impotence. It is possible that very great distension of the veins, long continued, may give rise to condi- tions leading to atrophy of the gland ; but though the disease is very common, such a result is so rare as scarcely to be con- sidered as a probable one ; and, moreover, we not unfrequently find, that without any treatment the condition passes off as a patient grows iip. In many cases, by allaying sources of irrita- tion in the genital organs, we effect a gradual cure with scarcely any local treatment. As a general rule, I am very averse to advise any treatment beyond cold bathing to the genital organs, and the use of a light suspensory bandage ; but, in some cases, where the enlargement of veins was very great, and gave rise to great pain in the testicle, I have used acupressure to the veins principally affected, with advantage, and in several complete cure has followed. In other cases, where the skin of the scrotum was much relaxed, I have removed a portion of the scrotal integu- ments, and the subsequent contraction has afforded considerable relief, although in some instances only for a time. The class of cases to which the back lever vein truss is applicable are those where, from some obstruction to the venous circulation within the abdomen, the column of blood from above presses down upon and distends the veins of the cord and scrotum ; and the action of the truss is intended not to interrupt but to modify the circu- lation. A strong suspensory bandage should always be worn at the same time. In ordinary cases of cirsocele the truss would be hurtful. Whilst I mention the treatment which some special