1011 INJURIES OF THE LARYNX. when they are beginning to undergo that change they are of an irregular consistence, and therefore yield uneqiially. In the latter condition a blow, or pressure with the hand, as in manual strangulation, may give rise to fracture—by causing separation of the fibro-cartilaginous from the ossified portion—and so lead to obstruction of the passage from altered form, or from bruising and inflammation on the internal lining membrane. This interferes with respiration, and frequently causes such alteration in the part as to requia-e an opening to be made below the injured point. The dangers arising from injuries of the larynx are therefore either primary or secondary. The primary danger is that of immediate suffocation, which may arise from the absolute crush- ing of the cartilages, this being most easily accomplished in young subjects where they are soft and pliable. The secondary danger may arise from bruising of the larynx. This may occur at almost any period of life ; and though there may be no positive alteration in external form, the parts may be much bruised and in- jured internally; in such cases effusion of blood takes place into the submucous tissue, between the mucous membrane of the larynx and the cartilages ; or inflammatory exudation may come on in a few hours after the receipt of the injury ; and, in either case, the respiration becomes so seriously impeded as to render it necessary for the surgeon to perform the operation of tracheotomy. If we delay, oedema glottidis may rapidly supervene and suffocate the patient, or he may be carried off by a spasmodic closure of the glottis, produced by irritation of the laryngeal nerves. In all cases of injury or disease of the larynx, the presence of irritation of any kind, and the liability to spasm which attends it, are circumstances to be taken into account, for the glottis is an ac- curately adapted valvular arrangement, and, under such cir- cumstances, spasm of the laryngeal muscles superadded, very readily produces suffocation. If we should see the case in time, we may do something to avert the dangers of spasm and in- flammation, by the administration of ipecacuan, opium, and the inhalation of steam, or the external application of fomenta- tions to the larynx.