REGIONAL SURGERY. 1170 avoiding sucli stimulation of the intestine after operations for strangulated hernia. In my own practice, immediately after the operation, I give an opiate, to delay the peristaltic action as mu.ch as possible and keep the bowels quiet, so that the intestine may not be irritated by the passage of the faeculent matter. The opiate also allays the vomiting and irritation which are present. After thirty-six or forty-eight hours, we may give an enema to stimulate the peristaltic action of the bowel. In general, however, if there has been any great distension of the intestine, the bowels will generally act after the operation without any purgative. When the bowels are long of acting, as sometimes happens in old people, we should give some gentle laxative. The local treatment is very simple. The wound is to be dressed like an ordinary wound, and a compress supported by a spica bandage is applied over the opening to pre- vent the hernia descending. The wound seldom heals entirely by the first intention, but the greater part of it heals pretty quickly ; and after four or five weeks we may fit on a truss. In cases where, from the previous symptoms and from the appearance of the intestine, as seen during the operation, it is evident that peritonitis has set in, the use of calomel and opium in the proportion of half-a-grain of the latter to two grains of the former should be begun at once, and the dose repeated every four or six hours, till some slight effect is produced on the mouth ; or, in some cases, opium may be given alone at intervals with good effect. If the patient be young and robust, leeches may be applied over the abdomen. In all cases, the application of a blister over the epigastrium, or over the whole abdomen, with the exception of the part near the wound, is advisable, and it is much more generally applicable and productive of more benefit than leeches. Enemata may be used to relieve the tympanitic condi- tion of the bowels ; but no active purgatives should be given. Under this treatment I have seen several severe cases of perito- nitis recover ; but in general, the diseased action has existed and spread extensively before the performance of the operation, and then the case is very hopeless; The treatment of the large