1284 REGIONAL SURGERY. In elderly or old people, the prostate becomes enlarged and rigid. This enlargement gives rise to an altered position of the prostatic portion of the urethra, and hence to a difficulty in emptying the bladder. In such cases the retention occurs mostly in fits, and continues for about a fortnight. During these periods of exacerbation, the patient requires to have his urine regularly drawn off. At other times, during the intervals he is able to pass it without assistance—more slowly than usual, however, and generally without completely emptying the bladder. The periods of exacerbation occur generally in spring and autumn, the damp, chilly seasons of the year; they are usually ac- companied by irritation of the bladder, and the urine is often loaded with phosphates and urates, together with a secretion of ropy mucus. In patients of arthritic diathesis, the uric acid is often deposited in very large quantities, as well as j^hosphates, and the affection often corresponds to an attack of gout. In enlarged prostate the obstruction is not due entirely to the enlargement, but partly also to the altered position of the urethra, the axis of which is often curved and distorted by the irregular swelling of the substance of the prostate which impinges upon it. Thus also the prostatic part of the urethra, which nor- mally is little more tlian an inch long, becomes dilated, elongated, and its axis altered, owing to the enlargement of the gland. The position of the bladder becomes altered, the superior fundus being elevated out of the pelvis, whilst the posterior part of the pros- tate itself is projected upwards within the bladder, the has-fond or inferior fundus of which forms a sort of cul-de-sac behind the gland. Owing to this condition, the urine tends to dribble away after it has ceased to flow in a stream. In treating the irritable bladder in cases of enlarged prostate, it requires to be freely washed out from time to time, as the urine lodges in the pouch behind the gland, and becomes decomposed and ammoniacal. In some cases the prostate gland may be enlarged on one side only, or one lateral lobe much more than the other. Or its body, formed by the two lateral lobes, may be very nearly of its normal bulk, that is, about the size of an ordinary chestnut, whilst its