REGIONAL SURGERY. 1408 operation for hernia, as it has been said that we cannot be certain in any case that such an internal constriction may not be present. But if we pay attention to the rule to make sure of being able to return the contents of the sac without forcible pressure, and take care not to push the sac and its contents back en masse, we may feel satisfied there is no such constriction. For although in this case not only all constriction external to the sac was divided, but even the neck of the sac itself, the knuckle of bowel still remained tense, and could only have been reduced by forcible pressure, if at all, and therefore I believe that the objection is groundless, inasmuch as division of the textures external to the sac would not permit of reduction, and thus the surgeon would be neces- sitated to open the sac, and so recognise the true nature of the case. Case III.—Femoral Hernia. Irregular Obturator Artery Constricting the Intestine. In the history of this case I have purposely been most parti- cular in detailing minutely every point connected with the operation, so that the practice resorted to, the reasons for its adoption, and the remarks which follow, may be perfectly understood. Archibald H—, set. 49, the subject of the present communication, had been under treatment in the medical wards of the Infirmary for some time, on account of severe chronic bronchitis, and skin-disease. He had suffered from femoral hernia for many years, which he had always hitherto been able to reduce by taxis, although often with considerable difliciilty. On the even- ing of the 17th of March, I was reqiiested by the resident physician to see the patient, as the hernia had come down suddenly about six hours previously, during a fit of coughing, was of larger size than usual, and had resisted the efforts made to reduce it, whilst vomiting, together with pain and tension in the swelling, had supervened. The resident physician informed me that he had tried the taxis as on former occasions, and that failing, it had also been fully tried whilst the patient was under chloroform by one of the resident surgeons, but without success ; I learnt, moreover, that the patient had been making constant but unavailing efforts to reduce it himself. I found him vomiting, complaining of pain in the abdomen, and with an anxious expression of countenance. The hernia, which was a femoral one, about the size of a large orange, was tense, and painful on pressure. I had him put under the iafluence of chloroform, and judging from the state of the