TRACHEOTOMY. 1045 the adult, the state of a patient struggling in the agonies of sul- focation, often renders its performance by no means so simple as generally described ; and in children from three to five years of age, in whom croup is most common, it is attended with much greater difficulty, or at least requires greater caution, than in the adult. I believe success depends a good deal on the manner in which it is performed, and attention to some minutiae in its per- formance. There ought to be no attempt at rapidity or brilliancy in this operation ; every step should be methodically gone about. First, as regards the position of the infant, the shoulders should be well raised, the head bent moderately backwards and supported by an assistant, who should pass one arm under the pillow behind the neck, so as to project or support it forwards, whilst with the otiier hand he keeps the head fixed with the chin in the middle line as a guide to the surgeon. The arms and legs may be con- trolled by a small sheet or large towel pinned round the body, the arms placed by the side ; and when thus secured, one person can control the movements. Care should be taken to see that the teeth be not firmly closed, but that the mouth be partially open and the nostrils free. The external incision should begin over the cricoid cartilage, and extend downwards exactly in the middle line for about two inches. If the incision be not exactly in the middle line, the trachea may be cut into laterally, and in that case it would be difficult to retain the tube afterwards, or the carotid arteries might be Avounded. In general, two large veins, one on either side of the mesial line and close to it, are seen when the skin is divided ; the fascial texture between these, corresponding to the intermuscular line, is readily divided by the point of the knife, and then these veins can be easily drawn aside.* Some- times one vein crosses the line to join the other, and may even require to be divided after being secured by ligatures : this is embarrassing; but the point most to be attended to is caution after separating the tracheal muscles. These muscles are sepa- * See Plate xlix.