RETENTION—REDUCTIVE APPARATUS. 1149 mouth open. Then, whilst with one hand the surgeon presses the swelling from below upwards, he, with the fingers of his other hand, regulates the direction of the pressure at the neck of the swelling; prevents the protrusion from overlapping the margins of the opening and being pressed against them ; and guides it backwards into the cavity. In many cases the protru- sion recedes the moment the patient lies down. Eeduction having been accomplished, we then take measures to retain the viscera within the abdominal cavity. This is effected by means of pressure accurately applied over the aperture through which the hernia had descended. As such pressure requires to be maintained, it can only be done effectually by means of special apparatus termed trusses ; but, in the first instance, until a truss be fitted, we may use a com- press, supported by a broad spica bandage, to prevent the pro- trusion returning. The proper application of a truss, and the form of truss best adapted for each case, are very important considerations, and the surgeon should be thoroughly conversant with the different forms of trusses and the principles on which they should be fitted, and also be able to take the proper measure- ments, and give general directions when the apparatus has to be obtained from a distance. It is impossible to do more than throw out some hints as to these points. The form of truss to be used will depend on the special kind of hernia, and the condi- tions present in different patients. In many cases the ordinary spring truss answers sufficiently well, if properly fitted and ad- justed, and in some instances it is more effective than any other, whilst its price renders it more within the means of the poorer classes, in whom hernia is very common. But it has some dis- advantages. It is liable to shift, owing to the movements of the patient; or, if the spring is sufficiently strong to prevent that, the pressure exerted by it cannot be easily borne. If it is selected for a case of inguinal hernia, care should be taken that the pad, whilst sufficiently large to diffuse the pressure, should not be so long as to rest on the spine of the pubis, as that tends