1416 REGIONAL SURGERY. 3. Catherine Reilley, set. 32. Strangulated femoral hernia. Down thirty-six hours. Sac opened. Bowel returned. Cured. 4. Mrs. Notmau. Had been troubled with an oblique inguinal hernia for six years, which, however, was always readily reduced, with the excep- tion of a small part which never could be kept up. On the day previous to admission into hospital it had again come down, and she had experienced severe twisting pain in the umbilical region, together with nausea and vomiting, which, on the following day, became stercoraceous, when she was at once sent to hospital. On examination it was found that, in addition to the hernial protrusion of left side, there existed directly over the crural canal of the right side a hard, isolated, prominent, and well-defined swell- ing, ahout the size of a walnut, which patient stated had commenced a year ago, and gradually enlarged. The protrusion on the opposite side could be easily returned within the external ring ; but doubts being entertained as to its complete reduction, it was cut down upon, and a constriction was found to exist at tlie upper part of the canal. The bowel was returned, and a distending injection given immediately after the operation, which brought away a large quantity of bilious-looking feeces. Hernial symptoms were now quite relieved ; but the patient suffered from severe bronchitis, and for some years past she had been affected with cancer of the os yteri. The hernial wound healed rapidly ; but the patient died three months afterwards from the cancer of the womb and bronchitis. 5. Janet Patterson, set. 40. Strangulated femoral hernia. Down thirty-six hours. Sac opened. Bowel claret-coloured, but not gangrenous. Cured. 6. Catherine Duncan, aet. 34, wife of gardener, Loanhead. Femoral hernia. Admitted 30th September. Hernia frequently down during the fifteen months before admission. For a month before admission almost continuously down. About 7 o'clock on 30th September bowels were moved. At 8 o'clock felt pain in lower part of abdomen. At this time the tumour had increased to the size of a pigeon's egg. She became sick and vomited phlegm. Never felt twisting sensation at umbilicus. She, along with a female friend, persevered for nearly two hours in trying to reduce the swelling. It then became as large as a small hen's egg. At 1 o'clock, Mr. Spence tried the taxis. Ordered a distending injection, and cold to be applied to tumour. No fseces came with injection. At 6.30 p.m. Mr. Spence operated. The bowel very black, but no gangrenous odour. It was returned, and the wound closed. After the operation, everything pro- ceeded favourably, except that some irritation caused by flatulence existed during the first few days. Congenital Inguinal Hernia. 7. Charles Mason, set. 19, was admitted on the 4th October last, labouring under a strangulated congenital hernia. The hernia had come down suddenly that morning ; and after its descent he had suffered from severe pain in the swelling, tenderness of abdomen, and vomiting. Previous to admission, antimonials had been given, and the taxis twice tried under chloroform. On admission, after a distending enema had been administered, and cold applied to the swelling, the patient was put under chloroform,