109G REGIONAL SURGERY. where of course no bronchitis existed prior to the operation, I To-day the pulse is good, sldii moist, and colour natural. The wine, which has been given in small quantities during the night, is to be discontinued. 1th.—Progressing very favourably ; pulse full and rapid ; skin dry. Bowels opened to-day spontaneously. Ordered small doses of ipecacuan wine to be frequently repeated ; also a sinapism between the shoulders. 9>th.—Going on very well. The tube was removed to-day ; but it was necessary soon to replace it, as great dyspnoea followed any obstruction of the tracheal wound. 9^A.—Tube removed to-day, and not replaced. She is breathing almost entirely by the natural air-passages. \1tli.—Progressing very favourably ; wound closing. 1 Qtli.—Report as at last entry. 26?/i.—Just recovering from a smart attack of dysenteric diarrhoea ; wound almost healed ; breathing calm and natural. Remarhs.—All these cases of croup present some symptoms in common—viz. dyspncea, lividity of the countenance, deficient expansion and drawing in of the thoracic parietes during respi- ration, and marked stridulous breathing ; together with par- oxysmal exacerbations of the dyspnoea, gradually increasing in frequency and intensity. In none of them was there any great amount of bronchial affection ; and, with the exception of the boy Blakeley and the girl Kerr, where some small shreds of lymph were expelled after opening the trachea, in none of them did the crupous exudation seem to have taken place to any great extent on the tracheal mucous surface, although the ten- derness over the trachea prior to the operation, and the appear- ance of the lining membrane, as seen on opening the tube, proved that it was to some extent implicated. In these cases, there- fore, the diseased condition may, for all practical purposes, be considered as confined to the larynx at the time when the urgent symptoms arose ; and hence they all were in that respect favour- able for giving the patients the benefit of the operation. In all, however, there was unmistakeable evidence of broncliitis and bronchial effusion occurring subsequently from extension of the inflammation, most probably increased by the operation and necessary presence of the tube. Indeed, from what I have seen of cases of tracheotomy, even for the removal of foreign bodies,