1330 REGIONAL SURGERY. passes two fingers into tlie rectum, till he feels the base of the prostate. He then takes a curved trocar and canula (Pouteau's) —the trocar being drawn back within the canula—presses the point of the canula against the bulging portion of the bladder, as represented in Plate Ivii. Fig. 2, and then pushes the trocar onwards until perforation is effected, and the urine evacuated. The canula is then tied in the rectum, projecting into the bladder, and left there for forty-eight hours, until the surgeon is able to introduce a catheter and dilate the urethra, which can often be more readily done after the bladder is relieved, and the con- gestion and irritability of the canal allayed. I have only twice punctured the bladder from the rectum. Once, nearly thirty years ago, in a man who had been previously subjected to rather rough catheterism, and who would not submit to allow me to try the catheter. There could have been no real necessity for puncture, as I passed a No. 6 catheter easily two days afterwards. The second case occurred in my hospital practice, and was rather puncture of a vesical cyst than punc- ture of the bladder in the usual way. A full-sized catheter was introduced into the bladder, and relieved it, but not the dis- tended cyst, and therefore puncture of the cyst was absolutely necessary. (See Clinical Cases.) When, from any cause, it is necessary to resort to an opera- tion to relieve the distended bladder, there is another method which is, I think, much better than puncture by the rectum. Where there is absolute obstruction of the urethral canal from injury or disease, we have a fixed and sure guide to opening into the membranous part of the urethra. By passing the forefinger of the left hand into the rectum, we can feel the apex of the prostate gland distinctly, and in front of the prostate the dilated membranous portion of the urethra can be reached and opened with safety. In operating, the surgeon, having his finger in the rectum in contact with the prostate, takes an ordinary straight bistoury and plunges it into the mesial line of the perineum, in front of the anus, with the back of the knife towards the coats of the rectum, and, keeping its point directed obliquely upwards