REGIONAL SURGERY. 1082 On reaching the house, which was situated in the immediate vicinity, I. found the patient, a boy about the age of four years at most, asphyxiating ; his face was much swollen and livid, the eyes were protruding, and the veins of the neck turgid, with the nostrils dilated. The respirations were prolonged, and accompanied with a peculiar stridulous noise. The mother of the child told me, that, on the previous evening, having to go from home, she left the child in care of another woman, and that she had, before going away, given the child some small plums, while eating which he was observed to cough violently, and roll himself on the ground ; and on recovering from this state, he mentioned that he had swallowed one of the plum-stones ; but as no further symptoms occurred at that time, no notice was taken of it. He continued quite well, and slept as usual during the night, and took his breakfast the following morning ; but shortly before I saw him, and whilst playing about the room with the other children, he, on a sudden, cried out that he felt the stone in his throat, and almost instantly fell down in the state of suffocation which I have already described. Although I had no doubt whatever as to the foreign body being in the windpipe, yet, to make assurance doubly sure, I passed a probang down the oesophagus. This met with no obstacle in its passage, and, as I expected, afforded no relief. As the symptoms, therefore, were most urgent, the extremities becoming cold, and the pulse intermitting, I stated to Mr. Lawrie, surgeon, who was present, that I considered the operation of tra- cheotomy as the only chance of saving the child. Mr. Lawrie concurring in this opinion, I performed the operation, which was accomplished with- out greater difficulty or delay than what might be expected from the want of assistants and the struggling of the child. On the trachea being opened, a quantity of frothy mucus was forcibly ejected, but no foreign body. Through the opening, however, the child breathed freely, and the face soon resumed its natural appearance. After waiting a few moments, I passed a slightly bent probe upwards into the larynx, and downwards into the bronchi, but could not detect any foreign body. I therefore introduced a small trachea tube, and left the child in charge of my friend. Dr. Smith, until I could procure instruments for extraction. At 11 a.m. I again saw the child, along with Professor Syme, who kindly attended at my request, The child then breathed easily through the tube ; but when it was removed, and the opening closed, there was great difficulty in respiration. The edges of the opening being held aside by small hooks, I again carefully examined both the larynx and bronchi with a probe, but most particularly the larynx, for all the symptoms tended to impress us with the belief that the foreign body was there. Mr. Syme also examined the parts, but could not detect it. It was agreed in consultation that it was best to enlarge the opening. I therefore divided the cricoid cartilage so as to allow a more ready examination of the larynx, and a more easy escape of the foreign body ; but we were still unsuccessful. Under these circumstances, we deemed it best to replace the tube until the following day. Nothing particular occurred during the remainder of the day ; the child was care- fully attended to, he continued to breathe freely through the tube, and both sides of the chest seemed to expand equally, and at the same moment. He was ordered a little milk with warm water and sugar, for food, which he partook of readily, and slept at intervals. On Friday, Professor Syme