1270 REGIONAL SURGERY. difficult. The stone, a large flat one, was resting in close contact with the left side of the bladder, and I felt that moving about the forceps would do no good. I therefore introduced the curved lever, and displaced and seized it with a pair of curved forceps, and extracted it without using any force, and without, perhaps, any very great delay; but I believe, that had I injected the bladder before the operation, the stone would have been seized and extracted with ease. The third case was one of real difficulty, owing to the large size and form of the stone, and the position it occupied in the bladder. The patient had suffered from symptoms of stone for above thirty years, and had a contracted perineum and anchylosed hip-joint, owing to old-standing disease of the hip. I felt the stone to be a large one, but never could form a very decided idea of its size. It did not feel very thick, and indeed was only an inch and a half thick in the centre, and much thinner at the edges; but it was nearly circular, being 3 inches 5 lines in one diameter, and 3 inches 2 lines in the other. It lay obliquely across the bladder, which was small and nearly filled by the stone. I felt it was too large to pass through the single lateral incision of the prostate, and therefore divided the right lateral lobe of the gland also ; but, from the position which it occupied, it was difficult to open the forceps so as to seize it, and when seized, the raised centre of the stone did not give a very secure grasp, and it slipped several times before I succeeded in extracting it. As I have observed, when speaking of the bilateral operation of Dupuytren, I believe that method would have enabled me to reach and seize the stone more readily than I could by the lateral superficial incision, even with bilateral section of the prostate, and I should have recourse to the bilateral operation in cases of very large calculi. Still, as a general rule, extraction of the stone is not difficult. If the stone be not caught at once, however, two errors of opposite kinds may be made,— the forceps may be passed too deeply into the bladder, overshoot- ing the stone, or in trying to avoid this they may not be passed sufficiently below it, so that the blades merely catch the end of the stone and do not grasp it fairly. In ordinary cases, the