REGIONAL SURGERY. 1312 purulent state of the urine, which would soon block up a small silver catheter. I have hitherto directed your attention principally to the method of dealing with the mechanical obstacle caused by the contraction. I have done so because in cases of retention from organic stricture we cannot afford to lose time. We must, however, recollect that in all such cases congestion and spasm from irritation are also present, and we should therefore use means to allay them, so far as that can be done, without risking delay in passing instruments. An opiate enema may be adminis- tered, and cold or iced water applied to the penis and perineum to relieve congestion, and chloroform may be iised before resort- ing to instruments. But none of these measures are to be trusted to by themselves, because the difference between this and spasmodic stricture is, that here the spasm and irritation are due to and kept up by the organic disease, and will not yield until the catheter has been passed. A warm bath often relieves the uneasiness of the patient, and he sometimes passes a little urine whilst in the bath ; but I repeat that no time should be put off in trying such measures when retention is urgent. In dealing with old tight strictures, when retention is not present, and where there is therefore no absolute necessity for at once passing an instrument, we should take measures to allay irri- tation, and prepare the patient for strictly surgical treatment by attending to the state of the bowels, the character of the urine, and other general conditions, as well as by using the hip-bath and ano- dyne suppositories to allay local irritation. In some patients, who suffer from aguish symptoms, the use of quinine, or infusion of cinchona, is generally of great benefit. In trying to pass instru- ments in such cases, whilst it is always advisable to get an instrument passed through the contraction, it is unwise to per- severe too much ; there is not the necessity as in retention, and our manipulations may do harm. Still, as I have said, it is important, if possible, to pass an instrument, however small, fairly through the stricture into the bladder for this is always