1090 REGIONAL SURGER\ I saw her twice during tlie evening while she was asleep, and her breathing was then quite calm and natural. Tlie occurrence of the paroxysms of suffocative cough during the night left little doubt as to the propriety of tracheotomy, and the operation was at once decided upon in the consultation, although at that time she was again quite free from any lu'geut symptom. In cases like this, where there is considerable doubt as to the presence of the foreiga body, it may be deemed advisable to wait, if the patient be placed in such circumstances that tracheotomy could be immediately performed should symptoms of suffocation supervene ; but I confess that my experience in this case would lead me, notwithstanding the negative evidence afforded by auscultation, to urge the performance of the operation, so as to place the patient beyond the risk of a sudden fatal paroxysm, such as happened in the case alluded to in the Society by Dr. W. T. Gairdner, where a child, in very similar circumstances, died in the hospital before the house-surgeon could reach the ward. Doubtless there are cases on record where foreign bodies have passed into the bronchi, and have after a time been ejected by coughing ; and sometimes this has occurred even after tracheo- tomy had been performed without success. But such rare exceptional cases can never form a rule for practice ; and, to say nothing of the immediate risk of asphyxia, the continued irrita- tion induced by the presence of even a small foreign body is almost certain to induce disease in the lungs, and ultimately to destroy life. In a fewiale, said to have died from phthisis, with constant cough, I found thickening of the tracheal mucous mem- brane, and, on opening the larynx, discovered in one of the ventricles the pip of an orange, partly confined in its position by bands of lymph. The history of the case, so far as it could be traced, left but little doubt that the irritation of the foreign body had been the origin of the pulmonary disease. But the propriety of operating early in such cases is now so generally admitted, that I need not insist on it. In performing the operation in such cases, it is of great