1158 REGIONAL SURGERY. dangerous symptoms present from a portion of omentum be- coming strangulated, though in such cases we may have the free movements of the bowels, as the bowel itself is not con- stricted. In some instances only a part of the intestine is nipped in the constriction, and then also the bowels may con- tinue to act. (Fig. 35.) In old people the symptoms go on more slowly, and insidiously. Often the pulse does not rise, and there is simply tension of the abdomen. The bowel is sometimes rapidly constricted, and the gangrene is confined to the portion pro- truded. Long before complete strangulation the constriction may lead to peritonitis, with pain and tympanitic tension of the abdomen, and pain on pressure. The peritonitis generally commences at the constricted portion, spreads along the peritoneal surface of the bowel, and then attacks the parietal peritoneum. This is a most dangerous condition, almost as much so as gangrene itself Peritonitis is sometimes supposed to supervene in consequence of the operation ; but I never saw a case of peritonitis in hernia where the peritonitis did not exist prior to the operation. We sometimes find a portion of the bowel which has been protruded retaining the indentation caused by the stricture, even after the constriction has been removed, thus causins: intestinal obstruction, either complete or partial. Occasionally the portion which has been constricted gives way some days after the operation, and then the symptoms are those of acute peritonitis rapidly supervening. This arises from ulceration of the mucous membrane of the bowel, the peritoneal coat only giving way at the last, and so perforation takes place, either by a large rent or numerous minute apertures. (Plate li. Figs. 2 and 3.) I have also known this to occur when the hernia had been reduced by taxis—in one case eight days after reduction. It is most important, as I have already said, that you should fuUy understand the methods by which, and the principles on which, the surgeon interferes in cases of hernia, because promptitude in treatment is essential to a successful result. i