REGIONAL SURGERY. 994 tiitional disturbance is very great, and in tlie character of tlie headache, watchfuhiess, anxious expression of countenance, and febrile excitement, resembles symptomatic meningitis. In the cases in which the inflammation is limited to the external ear, the Treatment consists in applying leeches in front of the ear, or behind the auricle over the front of the mastoid process, fomenting, or applying poultices over the ear, and dropping a little warm oil and morphia into the passage, whilst the constitutional disturbance is treated by clearing out the bowels and giving anodyne diaphoretics. Not unfrequently this condition is caused or kept up by the presence of carious teeth or stumps, and the removal of these should be insisted on. When the inflammation attacks the deeper parts of the ear, the danger is very great, and our treatment requires to be energetic. If there be pain, tension, or boggy feeling over the mastoid pro- cess and temporal bone, an incision should be made -over the mastoid process. This will both deplete freely and directly the parts affected, and relieve tension. Poultices should be applied to the ear, and a blister to the nape of the neck. At the same time, a moderate dose of calomel should be given, and followed by a saline pivrgative to act freely on the bowels ; and subse- quently, antimony with opium, in small doses, to diminish the force of the circulation and to act as a diaphoretic. Should rigors occur, with feeling of increased tension, or feeling of ful- ness in the ear, we should examine with the speculum ; and if the membrane of the tympanum be convex and bulging, it should be incised, as purulent matter sometimes points in that direction, and an early opening may save the patient from con- siderable risk. Chronic Purulent Discharge from the Ear.—Otorrhcea is a condition very frequently met with. It may arise either as a result of acute otitis, or injury, as from the irritation originally produced by foreign bodies in the ear. Most generally, however, it arises in early life, as one of the sequela? of children's diseases— measles, scarlatina, or hooping-cough. The subjects in whom we