REGIONAL SURGERY. 1406 taxis, but tlie symptoms still continuing, he asked me to meet him to exa- mine the case. I visited the patient on the afternoon of the 27th, and found him restless and suffering from hiccough. I was informed that the vomit- ing had not been so bad for some hours, and that he had had a slight motion of the bowels after an enema. The abdomen was tense and painful to the touch ; there was, however, no distinct appearance of hernial swelling, but merely a general fulness from great development of fat on both inguinal regions. On examining the left side where the large scrotal hernia had existed, by passing my finger from below upwards along the cord, I thought I could detect a small swelling at the upper part of the canal. After again examining him, and feeling more satisfied as to the existence of the small swelling, I explained to his friends the necessity of an operation to afford him the only chance of relief, although, from his exhausted state and advanced age, the case was very unfavourable. He had previously suffered from acute rheumatism and asthma, and on trying to administer chloroform it so depressed his pulse that its use could not be continued. An incision was made, beginning well over the position of the deep ring and carried down for about 2^ or 3 inches. A very great depth of fat required to be divided in order to reach the tendon of the external oblique. I then slit up the tendon from the external ring so as to expose the canal, and when this was done I brought into view a small hernial tumour, about the size of a walnut, constricted at the deep ring. The sac was cautiously opened as there was no fluid in it. The bowel was found very red and granular, but not very dark, and it presented no appearance of gangrene. The constriction was then divided directly upwards. I next gently drew down the gut to examine it immediately above the stricture, when I found a small firm band of lymph constricting it within the sac. This I also divided, then readily returned the bowel, and dressed and bandaged the wound in the usual manner. I did not see the patient again, but I learned from Dr. Cruickshank that after a temporary relief, the symptoms of vomiting and hiccough returned with abdominal tenderness, and the patient gradually sank and died on the 30th of December. Bemarhs.—In this case, the doubt as to the existence of any portion of hernia being down, together with a deceptive remission of the symptoms, rendered it much more difficult to decide as to operating. The hernia, originally a large scrotal one, had been reduced by Dr. Cruickshank, with a distinct gurgling sound, of which the patient was sensible. There was also for a day some remission of the symptoms, and a slight stool. These circumstances, taken in conjunction with the absence of any apparent swelling in the inguinal region, when compared with that of the opposite side, or by examining the surface of the abdomen with the fingers, seemed to prove that the hernia had