REGIONAL SURGERY. 1358 useful in obtaining tlie speedy absorption of interstitial exuda- tion, and so preventing permanent organic change in the gland or epididymis; and for the same purpose I think it is generally ad- visable to give a few doses of grey powder, or one-grain pills of the green iodide of mercury, during the progress of the treat- ment. If any hardness of the epididymis continues, a little iodine or camphor and mercurial liniment may be applied, rubbed in over the swelling. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis consists of a collection of serous fluid within the cavity of that sac. The scrotum gra- dually becomes distended, and the swelling passes up in front of the spermatic cord towards the external abdominal ring. The collection of fluid forms a tumour, generally of a pyriform sliape, perfectly smooth on the surface, and unattended by any painful symptoms except the dragging sensation caused by its weight and bulk. The history of the disease is that of slow gradual increase from below upwards. The testicle can be felt at first at the posterior part of the swelling, but its relation is lost as the fluid collects and overlaps it. The disease may follow some injury or irritation of the genito-urinary organs ; but, for the most part, no distinct cause can be assigned for its origin. It is a disease of common occur- rence in all countries, but is especially frequent in warm climates. The diagnostics of hydrocele are—its form, and the manner in which the swelling takes place, its weight as compared with solid tumours, the feeling of tense fluctuation, and the transpa- rency of the swelling when we examine it by transmitted light, by which last test we at once satisfy ourselves of the nature of the contents of the swelling, and see the relative position of the cord and testicle. When speaking of the diagnosis of scrotal hernia, I have already fully described the differential diagnosis of these two diseases, and need not repeat it here. It may, however, be mis- taken for other tumours of the scrotum, or other swellings may be mistaken for it, more especially medullary tumours, which