1025 LARYNGITIS. rally supposed, and that, when it spreads, it does so from the larynx downwards, and does not attack the mucous mem- brane of the trachea simultaneously with that of the larynx, or—as some would have us believe—attack the trachea and bronchial mucous surface before affecting the larynx. Post- mortem examinations reveal to us the completed disease, not its progress : our knowledge of that must be derived from observa- tion of phenomena during life. Now, to say nothing of the ordinary progress of the symptoms, the immediate relief afforded by the operation in all my cases, even in those which subse- quently terminated fatally, shows conclusively that even in the fatal cases no disease of the lower part of the trachea could have existed at the time, otherwise the operation could not have afforded the relief it did. As to the presence of bronchitis being a contra-indication to the performance of the operation, a point which I was inclined to insist on formerly—though I would not go so far as some continental surgeons, who consider it absolutely favourable—I must modify my former opinion, inasmuch as in most of the successful cases it was present, and when the tube was properly managed the mucus was easily expectorated. Per- haps it may be considered favourable in one sense, as indicating a condition of the mucous membrane less predisposed to the formation of plastic exudations. As regards the propriety of performing tracheotomy in ex- treme cases of croup, I have operated now ninety-one times in simple and diphtheritic croup, and my present average is one life saved out of three cases, which is a large average in such a disease ; and I therefore feel that the operation is perfectly warrantable, and ought to be performed, as it gives the patient his only chance of life. Another point, which has been discussed principally on the Continent, has reference to the propriety of operating at an early stage of croup. It has been stated that the operation would be much more favourable if performed before the symptoms became urgent. M. Trousseau and those who hold this view say that the operation should be performed before or early in the second stage,