CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1065 them. When the whole surface of the enormous growth was thus exposed —except where the elliptical portion of skin remained—the sterno- mastoid was seen to be so attached to the tumour about its middle, that I divided it above and below that part. I then relieved the anterior mar- gins of the cervical portion by a careful dissection, keeping the ^edge of the knife towards the tumour until I was fairly beyond the line of the great vessels. My dissection was continued from the lower and posterior part till the phrenic nerve was seen clearly, and the upper and posterior portion, which had been previously so far relieved, was then rapidly de- tached from its deep connections, and the whole of the cervical mass of the tumour was free. The detachment of the facial and parotid por- tion still remained to be accomplished ; and this required great care, both because that part of the tumour seemed more cystic, and also because, as I expected, it was deeply connected behind the ramus of the jaw. On dissecting it from before, downwards and backwards, I found it attached to the facial covering of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, so that I had to dissect the muscular fibres. Above, it dipped deeply be- tween the mastoid process and the jaw ; but, partly with the finger and careful dissection with the knife, it was detached pretty easily, till I arrived at the attachment under the ear over the mastoid process. Here it was iirmly adherent, and the weight of the tumour caused a slight tear of its substance ; but by having the timiour supported, I dissected this attachment carefully, so as to remove the whole tumour entire. A large vessel entered it at this point, which was readily secured. During the operation some arteries which bled were tied as cut ; and also some large veins, previous to their division. The chief bleeding during the operation was venous, from the divided veins passing from the tumour ; but the whole amount of blood lost certainly did not amount to eight ounces. The wound resulting from this dissection when the tumour was removed, extended from the zygoma to the clavicle and sterno-clavi- cular articulation. In the facial portion, the parotid gland seemed either atrophied, or so displaced that nothing was to be seen of it in the deep space between the jaw and the mastoid process. The portio dura—the cervico-facial portion of which had been unavoidably cut—was seen cross- ing to the face ; and the external carotid could be felt pulsating ; and the digastric was seen dissected here. In the cervical portion of the wound, the great internal jugular, and its tributary veins, and the carotid artery, were exposed for nearly their whole length, and posteriorly, the phrenic nerve was seen lying on the anterior scalenus. The flaps were brought together by a few points of suture, and seemed to be rather redundant, notwithstanding the elliptical portion of skin removed. A flat fold of lint was placed lightly over the wound. During the operation the chloroform caused vomiting. The patient was carried to bed ; hot-water bottles were applied to the feet, and a brandy enema given. Dec. Ath.—Slept tolerably well during the night ; sickness pretty severe ; ordered brandy and ice ; pulse 128. Bee. bth.—Pulse 130 ; slept pretty well ; has taken a little food ; the facial nerve seems slightly afi'ected ; she feels very little pain in the wound.