VITAL DILA TA TION. 1315 in xTutil, at the end of a week, a full-sized catheter coiild be passed. The excitement caused by such a procedure, however, is hurtful and dangerous ; and, moreover, this treatment, even when not attended by constitutional disturbance, was found to be followed by rapid return of the contraction, and it is now, I think, aban- doned. It was carrying a good principle to the extreme, without considering anything but the local action ; we may take advan- tage of it to gain ground until we can pass a No. 3 or 4 easily, but after that the dilatation ought to be carried out gradiially. To describe the proper treatment by dilatation succinctly, I will suppose that you have passed a No. 2 fairly through the stricture, and that it is tightly grasped. You leave it in the canal for five or ten minutes, and then withdraw it, and advise the patient to keep at rest as much as possible for a few hours. In many cases this is best secured by arranging to pass the smaller- sized instruments in the evening. If no great irritation follows, in three days you should again pass No. 2, leave it for a few seconds, and then pass No. 3, leaving it in for five minutes or so ; and so you proceed gradually, until complete dilatation is effected, always passing the size of bougie you used on the last occasion, and then the next larger size. Never yield to the temptation to gain ground by passing over one size, or by pass- ing two larger sizes at a time. You are almost sure to excite undue irritation, and more likely to lose than gain ground. At the commencement of the treatment, when only the smaller sizes can be introduced, I prefer catheters, especially if there be any false passages, so as to make sure that the instrument is fairly in the bladder. When we reach the larger sizes, the metallic bougies answer better and produce less irritation. In many patients affected with stricture the introduction of an instrument, however gently and easily accomplished, is almost in- variably followed by a rigor more or less severe. From what I have observed in such cases, I have come, rightly or wrongly, to associate this with irritation produced by the passage of the in- strument over the prostatic portion of the urethra and neck-of the bladder, and practically I have found that in most instances T