COLO TOM Y. 1397 charge. In addition to these local manifestations, we have the constitutional cachexy as in malignant disease ; but then we have the presence of other syphilitic lesions to guide our diagnosis, such as maculiB, enlarged glands in the neighbourhood of the groin, nodes, and very often a corresponding history. Appro- priate constitutional treatment must be combined with local measures, and a favourable prognosis may be given. Hence we must be very cautious in our diagnosis. The Operation of Colotomy, for the purpose of forming an artificial anus, is best performed by Amussat's method, whicb is accomplished in the following manner :—The patient being laid somewhat on his right side, the operator com- mences his incision immediately over the external margin of the mass of muscles forming the erector spinae, and carries it transversely outwards and forwards for about three or four inches parallel to the crest of the ilium, nearly midway be- tween the crest and the last rib, or rather nearer to the crest. On dividing the skin, fat, and fascia, the free margins of the latissimus dorsi and external oblique muscles are brought into view, with an interval between them. The cellular tissue is divided, the margins of the before-mentioned muscles held aside or partially divided. With a little further dissection the portion of the lumbar aponeurosis, giving common attachment to the internal oblique and transversalis muscles is exposed and carefully divided in the line of the external wound, and also notched upwards and downwards with the knife to give more room ; then, by gentle use of the knife and finger, the surgeon works his way cautiously, so as to expose the extra-peritoneal aspect of the descending colon. Where that intestine is dis- tended with feeculent matter, it is easily enough recognised and opened, but when the operation is undertaken to palliate cancer of the rectum, this part of the colon is often contracted, and lies within the margin of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and the peritoneal sac is then in great danger of being wounded unless some caution. be used. In opening the gut great care must be