EXTERNAL PILES—PROLAPSUS ANI. 1385 the actual cautery, at red heat, applied to the remaining raw surface. This prevents haemorrhage, and stimulates subsequent granulation. The outer portions of the clamp are shod with ivory, which, being a non-conductor of heat, prevents the adjoining parts of the rectum from being injured by it. The operation is said to be safe, cleanly, and effectual. External Piles are placed, as already indicated, on the outer aspect of the sphincter, and are just the remains of what were internal piles situated near the verge. These become gradually protruded, and the mucous membrane assumes the cutaneous character after exposure for a time. They are muco- cutaneous in character and consistency, pale in colour, and round or elongate in form. Sometimes they form a hardened or hyper- trophied ring around the margin of the anus, the cutaneous rugfe of which are so far obliterated by their presence ; but more generally the skin near the anus hangs in loose folds. As external piles are so far dependent for their existence upon the presence of internal piles, they should not be operated upon simultaneously with these, because, when the internal piles separate, the contraction of the mucous membrane may, and often does, cause effacement of the external pUes and loose skin. Should this faU, however, recourse must be had to appropriate treatment, and this consists in simple excision. This is generally performed by means of probe-pointed curved scissors. The piles being superficial, any bleeding which may result can be arrested by ordinary means, and there is of course no fear of internal hsemorrhage, while that taking place externally is usually slight. The case might be otherwise, however, were this operation per- formed at the same time that ligatures are applied to the internal pUes, for the congestion following that operation might then give rise to serious secondary hsemorrhage from the external rkw surface. We should therefore first tie the internal ones, and then, some time afterwards, if necessary, cut off the ex- ternal ones. Prolapsus Ani is a term sometimes used to indicate two