LITHOTRITY. 1233 body is felt, the surgeon, by opening the blades widely, and gradually closing them, will generally get the calculus between the blades, and will thus be able to form a pretty accurate idea of its bulk. Of course he must examine it in different positions, for a small stone caught in its largest axis would give an erro- neous idea of its bulk. The grasp of the lithotrite also serves to indicate, in some degree, its character of hardness or softness. In cases where, after careful exploration, gently carried out as just described, we cannot detect a stone, we should desist, use means to allay the irritation of the bladder, and after a few days, examine again, using an instrument of a different form, should that be thought advisable. In sounding, care must be taken to avoid being deceived as to the sound touching a stone. I have known the surgeon and those present momentarily deceived by the sound produced by the handle of the instrument striking a ring on the operator's finger, and not unfrequently, in disease of the third lobe of the prostate, the projecting part is covered with earthy sabulous matter, and the same earthy deposit may take place on the pro- jecting rugse, caused by the hypertrophied muscular coat of the bladder. We must never be satisfied by feeling a mere rub, but should make quite sure of the presence and mobility of the concretion felt. Having thus described the process of exploring the bladder to ascertain the presence of a stone, I now proceed to describe the different operations for the purpose of crushing or extracting it, and begin with Lithotrity. In describing the method of performing lithotrity, I have no intention of describing or discussing the merits or the mecha- nism of the different forms of lithotrites now used ; for that in- formation I would refer you to the works of Sir William Fer- gusson, who has done so much to simplify and improve the instrument, and to the monograph of Sir Henry Thomson. The instrument which I show you is that usually known as Sir Henry Thomson's Lithotrite, and, for ordinary practice, you re-