CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1093 He continued to progress favourably, and on the evening of the third day the tube was removed, but had soon to be replaced on account. of threatened asphyxia. It was finally removed on the sixth day, after which the wound gradually healed, and the child was dismissed cured on the 28th of May. He has continued to enjoy excellent health ever since, with the exception of showing a susceptibility to hoarseness during damp weather. For tlie notes of the following case I am indebted to my friend Dr. Wilson, and I give tlie report in his own words :—■ Case II.—" 0. W., aged 2>\, was first seen by me on the 19th of September, on the second or third day of an attack of scarlatina. From my first seeing him the case presented a very bad aspect ; the throat was considerably affected, and then a troublesome diarrhoea set in, accompanied by typhoid symptoms, for which he had very large quantities of wine, gradually increasing to 10 or 12 ounces a-day, chlorate of potash, astrin- gents, etc., which were evidently beneficial; and I was in hopes he was going to struggle through, when, at the end of the third week of the dis- ease, he was seized with symptoms of laryngitis. " These increased, and the case seemed hopeless if left to itseK ; but the disease being apparently confined to the upper part of the larynx, the propriety of operative interference suggested itself to me, and I determined to ask you to see him. This you most kindly did, accompanied by Dr Watson, on the 10th of October. " The child was much emaciated, and the pulse feeble ; still, as the disease appeared to be confined to the upper part of the larynx, you resolved to give him the chance, though small, of the operation. Imme- diately after the operation the breathing became quite easy, and continued so till death, except on two occasions, when attempts were made to dis- pense with the tube, and the nurse was unable to introduce it on a par- oxysm of dyspnoea ensuing, although the patient had been breathing easily during the time your assistant remained. He continued to take both wine and beef-tea in large quantities, and by injection ; but the stomach began to fail, the pulse became feeble, emaciation progressed, and he died on October 15th, five daj^s after the operation. " On reviewing the operation at this distance of time, I have no hesi- tation in saying that the operation, though unsuccessful, was most benefi- cial, even allowing that it did not prolong life, which, however, I am inclined to think it did ; still the relief afi'orded was so great, that I would be inclined (however reluctant we must be to advise operations not likely to be successful), were a precisely similar case occurring to me, to recom- mend the performance of tracheotomy." Case III.—William Lindsay, aged four years, was seized with hoarse cough, sore throat, and occasional difiiculty of breathing, on the 15 th of October 1856. No treatment was resorted to till the 16th, when the symptoms became more severe, and Dr. Menzies was called to see him. He was then labouring under symptoms of croup ; the stridulous breathing and paroxysms of dyspnoea occurring, however, at lengthened intervals. His