REGIONAL SURGERY. 1208 through a distinct circular opening of a dense aponeurotic cha- racter, the thinned edges of which are prolonged over the hernial sac, forming a sort of fascia propria. In many cases the hernia is very large. Sometimes it contains the larger por- tion of the floating viscera of the abdomen, the abdomen itself being contracted, and not having capacity to contain the viscera, which have made for themselves a sort of new cavity under the skin and fasciae. In reducing an umbilical or ventral hernia by the taxis, the patient should be placed with the shoulders raised, and the lower limbs flexed towards the beUy, so as to relax the abdo- minal parietes. We first try to disengage and draw down the neck, and then gathering the body of the swelling, and rais- ing it slightly, we press it directly backwards in the line through which it protruded. In large umbilical hernite, even when reducible, the reduction is not very readily accomplished, owing to the difficulty of managing such a bulky mass. Another cause of difficiilty is that most umbilical or ventral herniae contain a large amount of omentum; and this, when long out of the abdo- minal cavity, becomes loaded with fat, and so altered in form as not easily to pass back through the opening, the margins of which are very resistant. In operating for these herniae, if we were to make an incision corresponding to the bulk of the tumour, or a crucial incision, the consequence would be that the bowels would come out by it, and, instead of facilitating matters by a free incision, we should only make them much worse. No matter what the size of the hernia is, the incision ought to be small. We require to make an incision 2\ or 3 inches long, beginning about an inch above or below where the hernia protrudes, and continue it down over the tumour. We first divide the skin and superficial fascia, and then we come down upon the thin fascia immediately investing the hernial sac. In one case I found the fat under the skin in contact with the omentum, the sac being apparently worn through at one point by the pressure. In general, how- ever, the sac is well defined, and after dividing the skin and