1100 REGIONAL SURGERY. mised every hope of success. At noon I changed the tube, and replaced it by a double one, so as to ensure it being kept thoroughly clean. He had a dose of grey powder, and small doses of antimonial wine were ordered to be given at intervals. In the afternoon, however, the breathing again became difficult, although the tube was quite clean ; and at 10 at night I found him tossing about, with great dyspnoea and rapid pulse. The tube was again withdrawn and examined, and found free from obstruction, and replaced by another, but without any relief. I bled him to the amount of 3 oz., with temporary relief to the urgent dyspnoea and violent action of the heart, but he soon relapsed into the same state, became insensible, and died about midnight. On examining the body, the larynx and a considerable extent of the trachea were found to be lined by a tubular effusion of false membrane, the lower portion of which had passed farther down than the incision in the trachea, but had been pushed aside by the tube when introduced. Patches of lymph were found at the commencement of both bronchi, whilst the smaller subdivisions of the bronchial tubes were at many points quite blocked up by little masses of exudation. There was no great amount of mucous effusion in the bronchi, but the substance of both lungs was much congested. (See Plate 50, Fig. 2.) 2. Margaret B., set. 1\, after playing on Leith Links on a cold wet day, was seized on the 26th of March with a severe, rough, and hard cough. On the 1st of April Dr. Williamson found her labouring under acute croup. Although the symptoms were very urgent, yet, on consultation, it was determined to delay opei-ating till other remedies were tried. Next morning the symptoms were so intensely aggravated that I was sent for to operate. On my arrival the dyspnoea was great, pulse weak and intermittent, and the surface cold. Stethoscojjic examina- tion showed the presence of mucous rales in both lungs, and this, with the exhausted state of the child, induced me to consider it an unfavourable case for tracheotomy. The operation was performed, however, partly to relieve impending suffocation, and j^artly at the earnest desire of the parents. On opening the trachea, some mucus was ejected, and the relief to the dyspnoea was immediate. From this time the child progressed most favourably, the mucus being readily expectorated through the tube, which was retained for upwards of six days. 3. Louisa Paton, set. 5, was attacked with croup on the evening of the 15th April 1858. The medical attendant, who saw her on the 16tli, administered the usual remedies without effect ; and as the disease was progressing rapidly, she was removed to the Infirmary on the 18th, and the same evening tracheotomy was performed by Mr. Spence. The imme- diate relief was great. She continued better all next day, but again became worse, and died on the morning of the 21st, about fifty-one hours after the operation, and the sixth day of the disease. 4. Marion Henderson, set. 4, had a regular attack of measles in the last week of July 1858. On the 29th there was considerable cough and dyspnoea, the latter of which was much more urgent on the 31st, and next day was so great as to necessitate tracheotomy. There was much relief at the time, but she soon relapsed, and died on the morning of the 2d August. 5. George Nash, ast. 2, caught cold on July 4th, 1858. Next day