1389 DIAGNOSIS—FISSURE OF THE ANUS. A careful examination of the internal surface of the rectum, by means of the finger, may lead to their detection, but the surest method of diagnosis is to examine with the speculum. The forms of these instruments in general use are not well adapted for examination of the rectum. They are either fenestrated on one side, or have an oblique opening at the upper end. When the former are used, the loose mucous membrane projects into the cavity of the speculum, and the others—those partially open above—are still more objectionable, as they permit not only the mucous membrane but discharge from the bowel above to pass into the speculum. I have of late years devised a form which, if well made and carefully used, answers exceedingly well for examining the lower part of the bowel. It is made of glass, of the ordinary cylindrical form, perhaps a little longer and larger, closed at the top. One-half is coated and silverised in the usual manner, the other half is left clear; and the glass should be very equal, and free from waves or flaws. Before this speculum is introduced it should be immersed in warm water, to prevent its being dimmed by the heat or moisture of the bowel, and then when introduced, by gently turning it round, we obtain a very perfect view of the interior of the bowel. The only difficulty is caused by the folds formed by the laxity of the mucous surface, and that is best ob- viated by the size of the speculum tube. Were it possible to combine the clear glass side with an expanding metallic speculum, the instrument would be perfect for the purpose of diagnosis. The Treatment of anal ulcers consists in touching them with nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper. Ulcers of a more formidable character are sometimes associated with Fissure of the Anus, and, when not syphilitic, are amenable to the same treatment. This consists in transfixing the ulcer by passing a sharp bistoury through its hardened base and a portion of the sound texture beyond it. It is generally situated close to the internal ex- tremity of the fissure, and is often continuous with it. After- treatment by lotions may sometimes be necessary. Fissure of the Anus is the term used to denote a