PERITYPHLITIS—ILIAC ABSCESS. 1137 requires to be evacuated by cutting down upon the canal, as in a case of hernia, to avoid risk. In the right iliac region meet with inflammatory infiltra- tion of the loose cellular tissue of the iliac fossa around the caput C3ecum, from irritation of that portion of the intestinal canal—Perityphlitis, as it is termed—and this frequently ter- minates in suppuration, attended with great constitutional dis- turbance. We should be very cautious before making incisions in such cases, on the assumption that suppuration has occurred, for in this form of iliac cellulitis there may be great effusion and hardness, vpith rigors and sympathetic fever, and yet under proper antiphlogistic treatment the general symptoms may abate, and the local effusion disappear, without pus being formed, so that it is well to wait a little for decided symptoms of suppura- tion before cutting through the parietes. When an opening is indicated, the incision should be made in the line of Poupart's ligament, near the anterior superior spine of the ilium, unless the abscess be pointing elsewhere, and then we follow the indication afforded by the natural process. The after-treatment is the same as that of an ordinary abscess, only we require to watch lest ulceration of the bowel should occur, and faecal fistula should form. In cases of circumscribed abscess in the iliac fossa in connection with the intestine, the ulceration is sometimes large, and leads to artificial anus. This form of artificial anus is said to be more difficult to heal than that arising in gangrenous hernia, but my experience of a few cases of this kind, which have come under my own care, is different. They all did well, the opening contracted, and the feeculent matters gradually passed by their natural channel as the wound healed, and no surgical interference was required. When purulent collections in the iliac fossa on the sub- peritoneal surface of the fascia are chronic and diffuse, they may closely simulate femoral hernia. The internal cribriform fascia in the first instance, and next the external cribriform fascia, yield before the gradual pressure of the pus, and a