1050 REGIONAL SURGERY. finger can be used for detecting the position of the foreign body, and afterwards for guiding the point of the forceps to its site. These forceps must be used in this situation with very great caution and gentleness, for there is much danger in searching for foreign bodies with anything like carelessness ; and even with the utmost care there is considerable risk in fishing for such bodies with any instrument yet invented, for the condition of things may be aggravated instead of improved by their use. Thus, a sharp point may be driven further home, and a slight abrasion of the mucous membrane increased to a laceration. If the impacted substance be tolerably blunt, and beyond the reach of recognition by the finger, or removal by the forceps, the ordi- nary whalebone and sponge probang may be used with safety, to help it onwards towards its destination in the stomach or ejec- tion through the mouth. In some cases, where small sharp-pointed bodies are lodged far down, we may succeed in extracting them with the tubular expanding probang. This instrument consists of a fine whale- bone probang, tipped with sponge, ensheathed in a gum elastic tube, except for about two inches above the sponge. From the point where the sheath terminates, a series of strong bristles are arranged longitudinally around the whalebone, and attached above to the gum elastic sheath and below to the sponge. The instru- ment, when closed, presents much the appearance of the common sponge probang ; but when the whalebone stalk is pushed, and then drawn a little back, the bristles are projected, and expand like a parasol, so that, on withdrawing the instrument thus opened, it sweeps the circumference of the oesophagus, and may catch and extract small foreign bodies sticking in the wall of the passage ; but it is more ingenious than practically useful, and in most cases the common sponge probang answers best. It is often very difficult to detect the presence of a small body in the pharynx, and still more difficult to remove it. The difficulty and danger are increased if the impacted substance be sharp in its outlines, or have pointed or hooked extremities. Both these conditions are sometimes met with when a false