CASES SUITABLE FOR LITHOTRITY. 1227 mulberry calculi are not cases in whicli lithotrity should, as a general rule, be employed. The kinds of stone best suited for this operation are the uric acid in its early formation, and the phosphatic calculi. These latter calciQi are very readily broken up and crushed to powder, and after the earlier sittings, by injecting the bladder, portions of the stone may be dissolved and brought away, so that in many respects the phosphatic and soft uric acid calculi are the most favourable, and the oxalate of lime the most unfavourable for the operation of lithotrity. Where two or more calculi exist, lithotrity is not so advantageous, as the different calculi are caught and partially crushed at the dif- ferent operations, and hence there is a want of certainty as to the result. The condition of the urinary organs should be attended to in choosing eitlier operation. For lithotrity the bladder must be sufficiently capacious to retain a moderate amount of fluid, say from five to eight ounces. When the patient has suffered from stone for a long time, or when he is constantly making water, the muscular coats of the bladder get thickened and irritable, and the capacity of the cavity is diminished, so that it is unable to contain even a moderate quantity of water. The opponents of lithotrity used to argue that the operation could very seldom be performed on this account. We can, however, obviate this difficulty by injecting a little tepid water occasionally into the bladder, and so gradually increasing its capacity, and accustoming it to contain some bland unirritating fluid. If we can by suph treatment get the bladder to contain say from five to eight ounces of water, we are quite justified in performing lithotrity, provided all the other conditions are suited for it. The most important point, however, is the size of the canal of the urethra; it must be of such a size as to allow a full-sized lithotrite to enter the bladder. We must have an instrument of full crushing power, and therefore the urethra must be tolerably large to allow of the passage of the instrument. It must also be large for another reason—to allow the fragments of the stone to come away readily. If the urethra be small, they will probably 4 L