REGIONAL SURGERY. 1290 cases of prostatic disease in gouty patients, I have found the beneficial effects of colchicum wine in small doses of eight or ten drops, taken at bed-time for a week or so, about the time when the exacerbation of the disease generally shows itself, or when there are any uneasy symptoms, as it will often ward off the attack; and, indeed, fits of retention are sometimes com- pletely prevented by this remedy. In cases of retention from enlarged prostate, when we are foiled in passing the catheter, how are we to draw off the urine ? In such cases it has been proposed to puncture the bladder from the rectum; but in any diseased prostate, where puncture would be warrantable, we cannot puncture from the rectum, because the bladder is raised out of the pelvis by the enlargement of the gland, and we are unable to feel or reach the part of the bladder above the prostate, where it is uncovered by the peritoneum. Hence, if puncture of the bladder is to be adopted, it must be performed in the linea alba, immediately above the pubes. In cases of enlarged prostate the bladder is not so likely to subside behind the pubes as in the high operation for stone, because it is kept in its elevated position by that condition of parts ; and here, therefore, we may introduce a trocar and canula with comparative safety, and then pass a large gum catheter through the canula, and leave it in the bladder. The opening so made may always continue pervious, as I have known in one case, where the patient makes water through the anterior abdominal parietes. In such cases, a continuous mucous surface forms from the bladder towards the skin in this locality. The operation, however, is not a satisfactory one ; it is attended with some danger, and there are few who would consider it comfortable to be compelled to micturate through the front of the abdomen. Besides, the operation is not necessary, for I think that with care and perseverance we should always succeed in passing a prostatic catheter, if not an ordinary one. But, if the natural passage be completely closed in, so that we cannot introduce an instrument, it is preferable to make a false passage through the prostate. A new and more direct canal