1056 REGIONAL SURGERY. merely the communicated pulsation from the carotid vessels : still the diagnosis is very difficult. In opening a lateral pharyngeal abscess there is danger of opening into the blood-vessels. We must be careful to turn the edge of the knife inwards here, and we should open the abscess as near the middle line as possible. The Posterior or Eetro-Pharyngeal Abscess is usually diffuse, and occupies the whole of the back part of the pharynx, and bulges forwards. It is very generally connected with disease of the bodies of the vertebrae. Even when this exists, where the abscess is threatening to cause suffocation by pressing forwards, we must interfere and open it, and in doing so we must be very careful. It is not a difficult thing to do with a bistoury wrapped round with lint, but if we open the abscess suddenly, especially when it is overhanging the larynx, suffocation may occur, and I have known this to happen. The pus gushes out, runs down the larynx, and so chokes the patient. To obviate this, I would use a flat trocar, with a very sharp point, and perforate the abscess with this, so as to allow the fluid to come through the canula into the mouth. We may empty the abscess so far in this way, and then enlarge the incision with a probe-pointed bistoury, when the more fluid part of the pus has been got rid of. It is the sudden gush of matter at first that is apt to cause suffocation when the knife is used instead of the trocar. Stricture oe the (Esophagus is not uncommon, and as in the case of other mucous canals, may be either simple or malignant. Spasmodic stricture also occurs more frequently in the oesophagus than in any other mucous canal. This is easily explained when we consider the powerful muscular structure of its walls. Hysterical women are most subject to spasmodic stricture. The surgeon must also keep in mind that aneurism of the thoracic aorta or of the innominate artery may obstruct the passage by lateral pressure, and he should examine carefully before passing instruments to explore the oesophagus.