REGIONAL SURGERY. 1334 the superficial perineal fascia becomes continuous with the cover- ings of the scrotum, in which direction it finds a ready vent into the loose cellular tissue under the coverings of the scrotum and penis. In cases where the urethra gives way a little in front of the bulb, besides the swelling described, a portion of the urine sometimes infiltrates the erectile spongy texture, causing gan- grene, which is indicated by the glans penis becoming black, or presenting black spots on its surface and in its substance. The condition thus indicated is one of great danger, and the prognosis most unfavourable. In the course of a very short time the swollen and distended parts become discoloured, at first of a dusky red, and then mottled with black patches, and the character of the swelling gradually alters. It becomes boggy and emphysematous, rather than tense, and the same condition extends over the abdomen, ascending gradually higher and higher unless interfered with. These local conditions speedily give rise to marked constitu- tional symptoms. The patient becomes feverish and excited, with a quick, sharp, or jerking pulse. The fever speedily assumes the irritative typhoid character. The tongue becomes dry, the skin is covered with profuse perspiration, and exhales a urinous odour, there are low muttering delirium, fumbling with the hands, cold clammy sweats, and finally, unless decided measures be resorted to at once, coma and collapse close the scene. When called to a patient suffering from extravasation of urine, the character of the swelling, in conjunction with the cir- cumstances accompanying, should leave no doubt as to the nature of the case ; and the treatment, to be effective, must be imme- diate and decided. No delay is warrantable, even though the constitutional symptoms may not have arisen; our object, in- deed, should be to prevent or diminish these. There is no use in wasting time in attempts to^ass the catheter; for even sup- posing you managed to get it into the bladder, it would do no good, for the contents of the bladder have been already extra- vasated amongst the tissues, and you must relieve that condition by free incisions.