1373 CANCER OF THE PENIS—AMPUTATION. worse, whilst we give a chance of relief, if not of absolute cure. When ulceration attacks the textures in the groin, we often find the common femoral artery and vein laid bare, and death may- occur from hemorrhage caused by the ulceration of these vessels. Epithelial cancer frequently attacks the prepuce, and may involve the glans penis and body of that organ, so as to neces- sitate amputation. The disease is very liable to arise in per- sons who are the subjects of congenital phymosis, as the lodgment of the sebaceous secretion between the prepuce and glans leads to attacks of irritation from time to time, and as the patients advance in life cancroid disease supervenes. If the dis- ease is limited to the prepuce, free circumcision is all that is requisite ; but if the glans penis be affected, then the removal of the penis wide of the diseased part is imperative. In many cases the warty induration of the prepuce renders it difficult to ascer- tain the extent of the disease, and hence it is generally advisable to slit up the prepuce to make quite sure whether or no the glans penis be involved in the diseased action. Like cancroid affections of the lip and scrotum, there seems to be different degrees of malignancy in different cases. In some the disease appears to be entirely local, and shews no tendency to return, whilst in others it affects the lymphatic glands and the general system, and returns rapidly. I know of cases in which, more than twelve years ago, I removed the penis for cancroid disease of very unfavourable appearance ; at present the patients are in excellent health, and without the slightest tendency to recurrence of the affection, whilst in other cases I have known it recur in less than twelve months, and lead to cancerous tumours of the inguinal glands. When removal of the diseased organ is obviously necessary. Amputation of the Penis is performed as follows :—The pubes and scrotum having been shaved, firm constriction of the penis is effected by a strip of cotton bandage tied in a slip knot, so as to command the circulation. The operator then grasps - and stretches the. penis, and, with a single stroke of a long amputating