1094 REGIONAL SURGERY. pulse was very rapid and small. Leeches were applied over the neeli, fol- lowed by a blister, and antimonial solution was ordered to be given at stated intervals. On Sunday the 17tli Dr. M. found the little patient so much worse that he requested me to see him, in case I might think it advisable to per- form tracheotomy. I found him suffering from very urgent dyspncea, with prolonged stridulous inspiration and very short expiration. The expansion of the thorax was deficient, the ribs being drawn inwards during respiration. The pulse was small, and the face livid. There was some slight bronchitis, but not to such an extent as to forbid the operation, which was accord- ingly performed, and a double tube introduced. A quantity of mucus was expelled on oj)ening the trachea, and then the breathing became easy. A piece of muslin was placed over the orifice of the tube, and the attendants were shown how to clear it from time to time. In the afternoon, when I saw him, I found him much relieved. The colour of the face was natural; the pulse, though still quick, was softer, fuller, and less rapid than in the morning ; the lireathing was quite easy. I removed the inner tube, cleaned it, oiled it slightly, showed the attendant how to remove and clean it, and made her take it out and re- place it, to make sure that she understood me. Next morning I found him still improving, and breathing so easily, that, after cleaning the tube, I did not think it necessary to visit him again that day. On Tuesday the 19th, when I called on Dr. Menzies to accompany me to see the patient, I learned, to my great surprise, that he had died at 3 A.M. Dr. M. informed me that he had seen him after my visit, and found him still doing well, and breathing quite easily. About 1 p.m., however, owing to some mucus obstructing the tube, a fit of dys2Jnoea came on. The nurse, instead of withdrawing the inner tube, although she had been taught how to do it, became alarmed, and it was only when the child was nearly suffocated that his father, in desperation, took it out. This at once relieved the breathing ; but the effects of long-obstructed respiration soon showed themselves in pain in the head, dilated pupils, and other symj'toms of cerebral effusion. The poor child soon became comatose, and died thirty- nine hours after the operation. Case IV.—George Stark, aged 5 years, admitted to the Infirmary on the 19th of March 1857. The patient has been subject to cough for the last two years, and is liable to occasional acute aggravations of it. He was seized with one of these attacks about a fortniglit ago, and was considerably worse than usual. His symptoms became gradually more urgent, and he was brought to the hospital on the 18th of March, suffering from a severe attack of true croup. The usual treatment, including repeated counter-irritation, was used in vain, and on the 19th he was so ill that traclieotomy seemed to aflbrd the only chance for life. The breathing was noisy and laborious, tlie I'espiva- tions being 30 per minute ; the expansion of the chest in inspmition was very imjierfect, and there was marked depression of the lower ribs in expiration. The operation was accordingly 2)erformed, in the usual way,