REGIONAL SURGERY. 1224 condition which gives rise to the disease than to the actual degree of local irritation. The symptoms in diseases of the kidney, especially in some cases of albuminuria, when this is combined with scrofulous disease of the prostate in boys, are exceedingly like calciilus. All the symptoms of stone may be present, and depend entirely on the above causes ; the general health, however, in these cases very soon gives way. The only sure diagnostic for stone in the bladder is the use of the sound, and the method of doing this will be fully considered by and by. In all urinary affections we ought to be very particular in examining into the general symptoms of the patient, the state of the pulse, and digestive organs, and especially the condition of the urine. When there is any reason to suspect a tendency to the deposition of phosphates, or that the urine is albuminous, the urine should be examined repeatedly. When a little of the urine is heated, if there be any phosphates in it it becomes opaque and muddy, but, on adding a drop or two of nitric acid, it at once becomes clear again, with perhaps some slight effervescence ; the phosphates are decomposed by the acid and dissolved. If albumen be present, the addition of nitric acid will only make the urine more opaque than it was after being heated. When pus is present the tests of heat and nitric acid give results some- what similar to those of albumen; but if, instead of nitric acid, we add a few drops of liquor potassse to the opaque urine, the pus becomes dissolved and the fluid clears. When both albumen and phosphates are present in the urine, and if this condition be persistent, the case is a very unfavourable one ; still in many of these cases we must allow for a certain amount of fibrinous matter, the result of irritation of the organs, causing the albuminous deposit, and then the average specific gravity of the urine must be carefully ascertained. When the phosphates are very largely present, and when the general state of the patient indicates debility or nervous exhaustion, though that should not absolutely prevent us from operating, still the prognosis is un- favourable, especially when the patient is young. In phosphate of