REGIONAL SURGERY. 1298 the canal to the bladder; but the direction of this curvature is liable to change, in consequence of alteration in the size of the prostate, or from dragging and elongation of the parts, con- sequent on great distension of the bladder. If we now examine pathological specimens of cases of stricture of the urethra, we find that two portions of the canal are almost exempt from this alteration. I have never seen, and do not know of, a single specimen of stricture situated in the prostatic portion of the canal, and strictures of the membranous portion are very rare indeed, except as the result of wound or injury. I have not as yet, in any collection I have examined, been able to find a specimen of organic stricture in that part of the mem- branous portion which lies free between the layers of the trian- gular ligament. Practically, therefore, M'e may say that strictures are almost limited to the spongy portion of the urethra, and perhaps the point of junction between it and the membranous portion at the opening in the anterior layer of the triangular ligament. If we examine the parts of the spongy portion of the urethra where strictures are usually situated, we find, that by far the most frequent site of stricture is in what may be termed the bulbous portion, extending for about an inch in front of the bulb back to the opening in the ligament, the most frequent site being about three-fourths of an inch in front of the pen- dulous bulb. The next most common site of stricture is from an inch to two inches from the orifice of the urethra; whilst the third, almost as common as the last-mentioned site, is imme- diately in front of the scrotum, nearly corresponding to the flexure of the penis when pendulous. The statement frequently met with in surgical works, that the most usual site is in the membranous portion of the canal, is the result of an indefinite idea of its position when passing an instrument in the living subject. The pathological condition, as already defined, consists essentially in the deposit and organisation of new material, causing contraction or obstruction of the canal. The morbid