now A HERNIA BECOMES STRANGULATED. 1155 indeed, I found the cause of constriction in a vessel circling round the neck of the protruded intestine ; but the case is unique, and not to be included when considering the general causes of constriction. Holding the views I have expressed, we get rid of the idea of contraction of muscles constricting the hernia, and look on such muscles as merely complicating the condition of incarceration or strangulation ; and I now proceed to point out how the protrusion becomes constricted. In the majority of cases of hernia which become strangulated, the protru- sion has existed for some time previously, often for many years, and the openings through which the hernia descends are dilated, not contracted ; and this condition, at first sight, seems difficult to reconcile with the idea of constriction. But the dilatation just amounts to this, that the thinner and less resisting margins of the apertures in the fascial textures have yielded to the gradual eccentric pressure of the hernial protrusion. These thin margins, so forced back, condense and render the denser struc- tures more resistant, so that they oppose further dilatation—the circle of the opening offers passive resistance. If under these circumstances a fresh portion of intestine or omentum descends, and if the protruded gut becomes distended with faeces or flatus, or the omentum becomes congested, there arises an altered pro- portion between the protrusion and the opening or canal through which it descended. The neck of the protrusion is distended and pressed against the resistant margins, and is indented by them. Then irritation of the gut and congestion from interrupted venoiis circulation follow, till increased congestion, swelling, and distension, terminate in complete strangulation. To make my meaning clear to a demonstration, I take this unyielding metallic ring, and I pass through it a loop of intestine. In its partially-distended state it can be easily pushed back through the ring, but I distend the gut by inflation. As I do so, you notice the altered proportion of the protruded part of the in- testine. Still, by a little management, the gut can be reduced, but now I distend it fully. You see how the gut is indented