REGIONAL SURGERY. 1320 Now we know all that is required to cure the excessive irrita- bility of fissure of the anus, is division of the fissure fairly through its hard base; and whilst we usually effect that with the knife, still it can be effected by the coarser method of forcible rupture with the fingers ; so that Holt's method, by fairly rupturing the hardened basement texture of the contraction, prevents, or even cures, the irritable condition of the stricture, and thus acts very differently from the partial fissuring of the mucous membrane caused by the conical bougie. For the last nine or ten years I have practised Holt's method, and with great success, so that I feel no hesitation in recommending it as at once efficacious and safe—that is, as free from danger as any operation on diseased urinary organs can be. I need not repeat, that all the usual precautions must be taken that the patient be in a proper state for inter- ference of any kind; but I very seldom now have recourse to the large doses of quinine recommended by Mr. Holt as prophylactic. I believe nothing more is necessary than the ordinary attention to the general health and state of the urinary organs, and characters of the urine. This preliminary treatment can be carried out whilst we continue ordinary dilatation up to the gauge of No. 3 catheter. The operative procedure is very simple. The dilator is passed closed, till its point enters the bladder, and this is made sure of by withdrawing the stilette from the small tube within the dilator, when some drops of urine will flow by it if it has entered the bladder. But we must recollect, that, from the form of the instrument, if it be passed far in, its point rests against the walls of the bladder, so that, if the urine does not flow, we should withdraw the point a little, and then the urine will come if the instrument is fairly in the bladder ; and we must make quite sure of that before we proceed to the next step. The rupture of the stricture is effected by loosening the screw which fixes the blades of the instrument, near the handle, so as to allow them to open. We then pass the dilator upon the tubular con- ductor, between the blades, and push steadily and forcibly till