REGIONAL SURGERY. 1392 inwards in a widening conrse, while here and there it may meet with projections, which render its progress irregular and tortuous. After a time these attempts at closure may- become more numerous and continuous, until at length the original cavity, thus limited by them, may assume the character of a small hardened tubular canal. From the inner surface of this channel a thickened moisture exudes, and lymph is effused into the surrounding textures, so that the channel becomes more callous and persistent, having just suffi- cient vitality to prevent it from sloughing, -but not enough to produce healing action. A fistula may be either straight or tortuous, generally the latter, and it may have either one or two openings. If it has only one opening, it is termed incom- plete or blind : if it has two—the one opening internally, the other externally—it is termed a complete fistula. An incom- plete fistula may have its opening either on the internal or external surface ; in the former case it is more likely to become a complete fistula than in the latter, on account of the tendency of discharges to make their escape through the integument. These fistulje have little tendency to heal, although, after the opening or openings are formed, their cavities become con- siderably lessened, forming a simple elongated channel, the sur- faces of which are constantly moistened by a thin gleety discharge, which is alike pathognomonic of feebleness of action in the part and in the constitution. On introducing the probe by the external opening, its explorations are by no means restricted to such a narrow channel, for the efforts at closure have been weak and insufficient, and are easily broken down, so that the probe may possibly traverse the whole extent of the original cavity, and thus extend to beyond the internal opening, which seldom exists higher up than the distance of one inch from the orifice of the anus, for the anatomical reasons already stated. The external orifice of the sinus may exist anteriorly or posteriorly, in relation to the bowel, but it generally occurs at either side of it. The size is generally small, and it may be surrounded by pouting granulations, which form an elevated rim