REGIONAL SURGERY. 1426 The state of parts in this case showed me that tlie operation of punc- turing tlie inferior cul-de-sac of the peritoneum, to evacuate urine suj^posed to he lodged in the peritoneal cavity, must always be uncertain, and often dangerous ; whilst, as the fluid is diffused, it would not be fully drawn off, and can only be possible in those very rare cases where the urine has accumulated, and is limited by adhesions—a condition, of the existence of which I am very sceptical. Case of Retention of Urine in a Post-Vesical Cyst, REQUIRING to BE PUNCTURED FROM THE EeCTUM. (From Clinical Report, 1863-4.) J. W., set. 29. Had experienced some difficulty in micturition for some months previous to admission, but never amounting to complete re- tention until two days previously. Complete inability to micturate came on somewhat rapidly after his having been exj)osed to cold and wet. He was seen by a medical gentleman, who passed a catheter and emptied the bladder ; but on the following day he failed to get anything but blood through the instrument. When brought to the Infirmary the patient was in great agony from the accumulation of urine. Mr. Spence had some difficulty in passing a catheter, owing to the previous formation of a false passage ; but when he succeeded in passing a No. 8 catheter, and drawing off the urine froni the bladder, he fouiad that there still remained a consi- derable swelling in the hypogastric region. On examining per rectum he detected a fluctuating swelling behind the prostate, which he at once pro- nounced to be cystic, and proposed to puncture it when the urine had re- accumulated in the bladder. There was no stricture of the urethra, but the tilting forwards of the prostate by the swelling behind had evidently given rise to the difficulty in passing an instrument. In the evening Mr. Spence punctured the cyst per rectum, and drew off twelve ounces of a pale, slightly albuminous fluid. Thereafter the patient passed urine with- out assistance, and the swelling and dulness on percussion disappeared from the hypogastrium. Inflammation of the post-vesical cyst supervened ; the latter was at the end of a fortnight again punctured, and a large quantity of purulent fluid evacuated ; the canida Avas left in to act as a drainage tube, but happening to become displaced had to be withdrawn, and, of course, could not again be passed until the fluid re-accumulated. Seda- tives and diluents were frequently administered. Hot hip-baths were re- peatedly used, and poultices or hot fomentations continually applied to the hypogastrium ; but the patient became hectic and ultimately died. At the autopsy there were found—a suppurating cavity behind the bladder, with well-defined, rather thin walls, containing a few ounces of purulent fluid ; great enlargement of the prostate, with a suppurating cavity communicating with the floor of the urethra ; inflammation of the bladder, with several patches of diphtheritic-looking exudation on its mucous surface ; catarrhal nephritis.