REGIONAL SURGERY. 1258 bladder. On introducing the forceps tlie urine generally comes away with a gush, and, if the blades of the forceps be opened when just within the bladder, the stone is frequently carried between the blades and caught at once ; but the forceps should never be opened suddenly, nor until fairly lodged in the bladder, lest they should tear the prostate or neck of the bladder. If the stone is not caught as above described, the points of the forceps should then be directed downwards and backwards till they touch the stone ; their blades are then opened so as to seize it. (Plate liv. Fig. 1.) "When the calculus is fairly grasped, the direction of the forceps is altered, the handles are depressed, and the extraction effected by drawing from above downwards, in the axis of the outlet, and towards its widest part. (Plate liv. Pig. 2.) If a number of small calculi or fragments of stone require to be extracted, the scoop should be used, as shown in Pig. 3. When the stone has been extracted, the surgeon should carefully examine the bladder, both with his finger and the bulbous searcher, to make sure that no other stones or fragments of stone remain. He then examines the wound to see if any vessels require to be secured ; and finally inserts the gum elastic tube, and secures it to the bandage round the waist. When the lateral operation is performed, as above described, we have a funnel-shaped incision passing from below upwards, gradually diminishing in extent towards the neck of the bladder, and forming a free dependent outlet for the urine to flow by after the operation. The deep or prostatic incision, though limited in comparison with the superficial wound, is yet in such a direction as to give the longest diameter of the left lateral half of the prostate gland, without dividing the ileo-vesical layer of fascia, and amply sufficient to permit the safe extraction of a tolerably large stone. The lower part of the triangular ligament, and the other fascial and muscular structures closing the outlet, in the Kne of the incision, are fairly cut, and oppose no obstacles to the introduction of the forceps or the extraction of the stone. If the incision is placed low and made in the manner directed, neither the artery of the bulb nor the pudic trunk can be