xviii EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. aside, so as to expose the external iliac artery and vein, and some of the ilio-lunibar nerves. Fig. 2. Sketch from Nature, representing ligature of the femoral artery at the apex of Scarpa's triangle. The edge of the sartorius muscle is seen held aside, exposing the sheath of the vessels, which has been opened over the artery. The edge of the open- ing in the sheath is shown, held aside by artery-forceps, as described in the Lecture. Fig. 3 is a dissected view of the same parts, to exhibit the relations of the artery and vein and saphenus nerve to each other at the point of ligature. Fig. 4 shows the appearance of the wound required for ligature of posterior tibial or the peroneal by the method recommended in the Lecture. The heads of the gastrocnemius are separated, together with the cut edges of the soleus, are held apart and expose the pos- terior tibial nerve in the centre ; and on either side of the nerve the posterior tibial and fibular arteries are seen. Plate XXX.—To face Page 691. Fig. 1. Ligature of the superior part of radial artery. The supinator longus muscle is slightly drawn aside, and along its inner side the radial nerve is exposed, and internally to the nerve the radial artery and its " venae comites " are seen, the ligature is placed imder the artery. Fig. 2. Ligature of the lower part of radial. The fascia of the forearm has been divided, and the vessels and its accompanying veins are exposed close to the outer side of the flexor carpi radialis muscle. Fig. 3. Ligature of the upper part of the ulnar artery. The intermuscu- lar fascia between the flexor subliniis digitorium and the flexor carpi ulnaris has been divided, and these muscles drawn aside, exposing the ulnar artery and its satellite veins deeply seated in the wound. A part of the ulnar nerve is seen towards the inner side of the incision partially overlapped by the flexor carpi ulnaris. Fig. 4. Ligature of the ulnar artery near the wrist. The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which forms the guide to the vessel at this point, has been slightly drawn inM'ards to show the relations of ulnar artery and nerve. Fig. 5. Ligature of the anterior tibial artery in the upper part of the leg. The tibialis anticus muscle is drawn inwards by a hook, to expose the artery and the accompanying veins and nerve. EXCISION OF JOINTS.—Plate X5:XI.—Page 722. Fig. 1. Excision of the head of the humerus, by the method recommended in the Lecture, pp. 719-20. The saw is shown in the plate as