TREA TMENT OF PROLAPSUS ANI. ' 1387 the central portion, but the fingers, properly used, generally suffice to effect reduction. Eeduction having been accomplished, the more difficult part of the treatment is to remedy the tendency to prolapsus, or to palliate that condition. In children all that is necessary is to regulate the bowels, and employ cold bathing, and other means for giving tone to the system, and of course to get rid of any source of local irritation which may be present as an exciting cause. In adults, especially those in advanced life, we often find that the tendency to prolapsus has been gradually increasing, and in such cases the integuments near the anus are generally relaxed, and form folds radiating from the margin of the anal orifice. When that condition is present, the treatment consists in clipping out the loose skin in longitudinal folds, including also a small fold of muco-cutaneous tissue covering the sphincter. In many cases this effects a permanent cure, if conjoined with appropriate general treatment. In other cases, however, any operation is contra-indicated, and then support must be given by a properly-adjusted prolapsus truss. In neglected cases it may happen that, from congestion and swelling of the protruded portion of gut, it becomes strangu- lated, and then the condition is very dangerous, as, from the relation of parts, the whole canal is constricted. In such circum- stances we should try to press aside the protrusion at one part, so as to get the edge of a probe-pointed bistoury applied to the sphincter, and effect its division, first at one and then at another point of its circumference, and then, having relieved this source of constriction, attempt reduction. But, as in intus-susception, it may happen that the constriction is higher up, and may have induced strangulation and gangrene, then the only chance of relief for the patient is to remove the mortified part by including each segment of the protruded gut in a double ligature, and then cut- ting them off. By doing this we at once remove the gangrenous portion, and expose and free the canal of the bowel higher up. This, however, should never be done unless the protrusion is gangrenous, and then the double deligation of each half of the 4x