EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. xxi Figs. 4, 5, and 6, represent amputation of the thumb and its metacarpal bone, by the method described at page 788. Fig. 4. The dotted lines mark the incisions, and the thumb as pushed inwards, to relax the muscles and facilitate transfixion. Fig. 5. The thumb stretched, to render the parts tense as the knife cuts out to the surface. Fig. 6. The wound resulting from the operation. Partial amputation of the hand, all the fingers removed, leaving the thumb. The flap in this case formed from the palmar aspect of the hand. Amputation of the wrist, as described at page 790. Plate XXXVI.—Page 794. Amputation of the forearm by a long posterior and shorter anterior flap. Figs. 2 and 3 represent the performance of amputation at the elbow-joiat> and the cut surface after disarticulation has been accomplished. Figs. 4 and 5 show the lines of incision and the flaps as formed in ampu- tation of the upper arm by Mr. Teale's method of rectangular flaps. (From Teale..) Figs. 6 and 7 represent amputation of the arm by the circular method. In Fig. 7 the edge of the knife is directed obliquely upwards in clearing the bone as recommended by Alanson. Fig. 8. Amputation of the arm by anterior posterior flaps cut by transfixion. Plate XXXVII.—Page 796. Amputations at the shoulder-joint by the deltoid and double lateral flap methods. Figs. 1 and 2. Amputation at shoulder by deltoid flap. Fig. 1 represents the formation of the deltoid flap, and exposure of head of the humerus. Fig. 2. Disarticulation. The assistant grasping the vessels previous to cutting the axillary flap. (After Sir Charles Bell.) Figs. 3 and 4. Method of amputation by two lateral flaps. Fig. 3 represents the method of transfixion in case of the left arm, and the form and extent of the flap. Fig. 4. The posterior lateral flap formed and reflected. The head of the bone has been disarticulated. The knife is about to cut the axillary flap. Plate XXXVIII.—Page 800. Fig. 1. Sketch from a dissection made to exhibit the surgical anatomy of the parts in reference to excision and amputation at the shoulder- joint, as recommended in the Lectures. See pages 719 and 720. Figs. 2 and 3. Amputation at the shoulder-joint by single flapv, by the Author's method.