AFTER- TREA TMENT. 1237 one or two fragments, but great caution is required, to avoid doing too much at the first sitting. After the operation the patient should lie on his back, and an opiate suppository should be administered, to obviate irritation and prevent the patient straining to make water. In passing water he must not be allowed to stand up or kneel, as by so doing sharp fragments may be forced into and become impacted in the urethra, lacerating it, and giving rise to great danger. He should pass his urine lying on the back or side, and the urine should be kept in a glass vessel to permit the detritus to sub- side. Very little of the debris of the calculus passes during the first twenty-four hours ; but, if the patient drinks freely of dilu- ents, the fragments become water-worn and rounded, and then pass more readily when the patient makes water. No second examination or operation should be had recourse to for at least four or five days. More generally, a week should elapse, and then we should only interfere if all irritation from the first operation has ceased. On the occasion of the second sitting, as it is termed, we should use the scoop instead of the fenestrated lithotrite, our object now being to crush any broken fragments into sand. In the first and second operations it is not desirable to wash out fragments by injecting the bladder; but afterwards, when we feel sure that only some moderately small fragments remain, we may proceed to wash out the bladder by means of Clover's apparatus, which consists of a large catheter, with the eye in the concavity near its point fitted to an india-rubber bottle, with an intermediate glass reservoir into which the detritus faUs. The forcible impaction of a sharp fragment of stone after the first crushing is a serious danger, and various forms of forceps have been proposed for extracting such fragments. If it has been forced very near the external orifice, there can be no great difficulty in getting it out by gently pressing it forwards to the orifice, which may, if necessary, be dilated or cut. When the fragment is placed far back, attempts to use forceps would only,