1271 AFTER- TREA TMENT. position of the stone can be felt with the finger, and then, when the forceps are introduced and touch the stone, by gently opening the blades and pressing one of them against the posterior wall of the bladder, so as slightly to shake the parts, the stone will often fall within their grasp. Or, after feeling the stone with the closed forceps, by turning the blades away from the stone, and then opening them, and making a half-turn over in the direction of the stone, you will generally seize it. In some cases there can be no great risk in opening the blades pretty widely, and drawing them gently over the inferior and posterior surface of the bladder, to catch the stone; but I have a great objection to sudden plunges, or opening and shutting the forceps rapidly in hope of seiziag the stone, as that is apt to injure the coats of the bladder. In regard to the after-treatment of Kthotomy cases, there is not a great deal to be said. If haemorrhage comes on after re- action, it must be arrested by tying the bleeding vessels if necessary; or, if deeply seated and venous, slips of lint are pushed up along the sides of the tube to control it. In most cases all that is required is to give the patient an anodyne draught to allay pain and irritation ; and to see that the tube is kept clear, by occasionally passing a feather or small gum-elastic catheter through it, or by injecting a little tepid water with a small glass syringe, so as to avoid all forcible injection. The diet for the first few days should be rather low, and the patient should drink freely of thin barley-water or other diluents, to increase and dilute the secretion of urine; the more he wets, the better. After forty-eight hours in the adult, or twenty-four to thirty hours in children, the tube should be removed, as the track of the incision is by that time covered with plastic effusion, and the urine flows over it without risk. The wound gradually contracts and heals, although at first the action of the urine gives it a dirty sloughy appearance. From the eighth to the tenth day some urine begins to pass by the urethra. It not unfrequently happens that, immediately after the tube has-been removed, the urine passes by the urethra in full stream. This, however, is only temporary, and is due to swelling of the prostate