REGIONAL SURGERY. 1020 the entrance of air into the lungs which it gives rise to is entirely of a mechanical nature, being the consequence of swell- ing at the entrance of the air-passages. Therefore, if milder treatment fails, there can be no doubt as to the propriety of at once performing an operation such as laryngotomy or traclieo- tomy, which will afford complete relief to the breathing. As regards the diagnostic symptoms of cedema glottidis, there is great dyspnoea, affecting the act of expiration, after a time, as well as that of inspiration, and this apart from any disease of the chest. There are hoarseness, difficulty of articulation, and sometimes complete aphonia. On examination, by means oi the finger, we feel the epiglottis standing erect, and when we depress the tongue with a spatula we can even see it. The uvula and fauces are often cedematous. The diagnosis can be confirmed, if necessary, by means of the laryngoscope. The Treatment, in order to be of any avail, must be prompt. In the earlier stages of the attack it has been proposed to make shallow scarifications in the uvula, epiglottis, tonsils, and sur- rounding textures. There is seldom, however, any time to be lost in performing these minor operations, though sometimes, at the first approach of the attack, we may snip off the uvula, and so prevent the occurrence of serious symptoms ; but when the disease has fairly set in, we should open the trachea without delay. The Inflammatory Affections of the larynx and trachea arise, in many cases, from exposure to cold and wet, and they are accordingly most prevalent in very cold, or in damp and foggy weather. These diseases, both in their acute and chronic forms, are most common in those liable to sudden changes of temperature, such, for example, as gardeners, who are employed in hot-houses. In children we meet with a peculiar form of laryngitis— namely. Croup—which, in this manner, often arises from expo- sure to cold and damp. The general symptoms of acute laryn- gitis and croup are very much alike, and we may therefore with