REGIONAL SURGERY. 1282 the urethra continues in its normal condition, and there is no obstruction to the passage of the instrument. A large size of catheter should therefore he used, ISTo. 10 or 12. It is possible, however, to create difficulties even in connection with such cases as these, unless attention be paid to the position of the parts. If the instrument be passed too far down, it is apt to get hitched on the sinus of the bulb, just in front of the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, and if it be pushed too far in the same direction, a false passage will be made through the spongy portion of the bulb. If, on the contrary, the turn be made too soon, the point of the instrument comes into contact with the pubes, on the anterior margin of the opening in the triangular ligament, and that constitutes another difficulty. The point should be directed rather towards the right side of the urethra, and bearing lightly on its upper wall, until it be pretty well back in the perineum, and then the handle gradually de- pressed. If any obstruction be met with, the catheter should be withdrawn a little, and then passed rather towards the opposite side. The curve of the catheter should not be too large. In introducing it, the more lightly it is held the better. It should first be guided gently, but not forced in any degree. If these points be attended to, there wiU be no difficulty in introducing the catheter into a paralysed bladder, provided that there be no stricture of the urethra. Paealysis of the Bladder does not occur so often as is sup- posed. Many cases so called are simply instances of atony of the bladder, the result of over-distension of its muscular fibres, and not attended with actual loss of nervous power in the organ. In many such cases the enlarged outline of the bladder may be visibly traced on the abdomen, and in most, but not all, it may be audibly traced by means of percussion. The bladder may be irritable from other pre-existing causes, therefore we must not be misled by expecting to find that the degree of irritation wiU always be in direct proportion to the amount of distension. When we pass the catheter in a case of an enlarged atonic