988 REGIONAL SURGERY. generally torn, so that the fracture may almost be called a compound one; but it is not a compound fracture attended with any danger, for there is merely a slight laceration of the gum. True compound fracture of the jaw, with an external wound, is usually a very severe injury. In fractures of the jaw, the teeth are generally displaced; the last molar tooth is sometimes split up, and the fragments remain in position, and we must examine for this at the time, as the sooner the split portions of the tooth are extracted the better. This should be done at first, and we should see that the fangs of the tooth are taken out, for if left in they may cause necrosis after the fracture has united. In these, as in other fractures, the displacement is due partly to the direction of the force inflicting the injury, and partly to muscular action. When the fracture is at or near the angle of the jaw, very little displacement occurs, because the portion of the masseter muscle attached to the outer surface of the bone, and the internal pterygoid attached to its inner surface, mutually counteract each other, and maintain the fracture in position. When the fracture is nearer the chin, the angle is kept pretty much in position, but the action of the mylo-hyoid tends to draw inwards the body of the jaw, and so gives rise to slight displacement. When there is a fracture near to and on both sides of the symphysis, that part, deprived of its lateral support, is acted on by the mylo-hyoid and depressor muscles of the lower jaw, and displaced downwards and backwards, and there is generally considerable deformity. In fracture of the neck of the condyle, the external pterygoid being unopposed, we might expect considerable displacement, but in several cases which I hav^e seen scarcely any deformity existed. The Treatment of fractures of the lower jaw is very simple. We model the fractured portions into position, and fix the jaw by bandaging. When the teeth are tolerably complete, or even when only one or two teeth'remain in the lower jaw, if we can oppose these to corresponding teeth in the upper jaw, they serve as fixed points for applying- pressure. But if the teeth are very irregular.