CLINICAL CASES. 1127 ation being inaudible, and expiration an abrupt blowing sound, perhaps transmitted from the opposite side. After lying in bed for some time, the breathing became much calmer and easier, and the Hvidity of the countenance passed away ; the emphy- sema, however, increased, and gradually extended over the abdomen and scrotum to the upper part of thigh. In the evening free incisions were made through the skin and cellular tissue, in each axilla, and over the sternum. A large quantity of air then escaped, much to the relief of the patient. June 14;A.—This morning he seems and feels better. He slept somewhat during the night. The incisions have become glazed over with lymph, and the emphysema has apparently increased since they closed. To-day he was ordered to have several small punctures made to evacuate more air from the cellular tissue ; and the pulse being rapid and the skin hot, he was ordered to get repeated small doses of antimony, 1-10th of a grain every three hours. A considerable amount of air escaped by the punctures. Percussion on right side is rather duller than it was yesterday, and the inspiration is faintly audible. The left lung seems to act freely, the breathing is easy, and the lividity quite gone. June I5tk.—Slept pretty well last night; emphysema considerably less than it was yesterday, although still considerable over chest, abdomen, face, and arms ; the eyelids are less swollen, and he can open his eyes. The breathing is quite easy, and general appearance much improved. Percussion on right slightly duller than on left side ; right lung seems to have begun to act again, and the respiratory signs are returning. On the left side respiration seems to be going on freely, and the sounds are still slightly exaggerated. Antimonials continued. June 20th.—The emphysema still continues a little ; slight bronchitis has commenced on left side. The pneumothorax has decreased, and the right lung seems to be acting more freely. The antimonials continued. June 22c?.—Emphysema much better ; the incisions are healing fast ; pneumothorax is disappearing, and the right lung acting distinctly ; bronchitis is much relieved, and the breathing is tranquil and easy. June 30th.—Has progressed very favourably since last report. Slight emphysema still exists in scrotum. Juli/ 6th.—Is nearly well, except that there is considerable flattening of chest on the right side. The incisions are nearly healed. Dismissed cured on the 18th of July. This case illustrates the plan of treatment recommended in Lecture cviii. pp. 1113 and 1114.