OTORRHCEA. 995 most freqiiently meet with otorrhoea are of a strumous habit; and it is always to be regarded with some anxiety, and to be carefully treated. In many cases, the diseased state on which the discharge depends is limited to the external passage, and consists in chronic ulceration of its lining membrane, and a state of mere chronic irritation of that structure. This condition may continue for years, or nearly throughout a lifetime, without producing anything more serious than dulness of hearing on that side, and the annoyance cairsed by the discharge. In other cases, however, the middle ear and mastoid cells are the seat of disease, and the discharge is an indication of deeply-seated mis- chief. It has the peculiarly foetid odour of pus generated in the neighbourhood of diseased bone, and is of variable consistence. The discharge which occurs in the otorrhcea of the external passage is generally free from fretor, and contains a considerable amount of cuticular debris from the lining membrane. In disease of the middle ear and mastoid cells, the dis- charge may continue for a long period without serious symptoms. There are, however, generally, exacerbations of deep-seated pain, tenderness, and doughy swelling over the mastoid processes, occurring from time to time ; till at last, from some slight exciting cause, such as cold, one of these exacerbations assumes a more severe and persistent form, and cerebral symptoms supervene, and terminate fatally in such circumstances. The pathological conditions found after death, such as caries of the mastoid and petrous portions of the temporal bones, disease or destruction of the dura mater, and abscess in the middle lobe of the brain, show that the disease has been long making progress towards the fatal issue. The Treatment of the more siiperficial form of otorrhoea consists in removing all local sources of irritation, such as stumps of teeth ; correcting the state of the digestive organs, and applying locally at first weak alkaline lotions, and subsequently astringent lotions of tannin, alum, or sulphate of zinc or nitrate of silver, whilst, at the same time, blisters are applied to the nape of the neck. In the deep-seated form of disease, the discharge is but a