OPERATION: TREATMENT OF THE SAC. 1180 easily recognise the external oblique aponeurosis, which is generally distended by the hernia. We open the fascia at the lower part of the ring, and then with a probe-pointed bistoury sKt up this fascia to the upper part of our incision in the skin. We have now before us the hernia covered by the cremasteric fascia, and we require to make an incision about an inch in length through that covering, by raising it with a pair of forceps, and open- ing it; then on a flat director we slit up this fascia, and the edge of the internal oblique muscle to the upper part of our incision. We are now upon the fascia propria of the hernia, which we next slit up. In the extra-peritoneal operation, it is at this point that we require to begin to clear the neck of the sac, which, if the incisions have been properly made, is now distinctly visible. We see the bulging above and below the constricted point. This constriction of the hernia we touch lightly with the knife, until we find the constricting fibres give way, and then we may attempt to reduce the hernia. If we cannot do this easily, and if we find that the constriction is in the neck of the sac, we must open it and divide the stricture from within. The sac must be very carefuUy opened. Sometimes the sac is not very easily recognised. We pinch up a portion with the finger and thumb, or we feel if there is anything gliding under the sac ; if so, we raise it, cut a little bit of it horizontally, and then enlarge the opening. If no fluid escape, we should introduce a flat director, and make sure whether it is really the sac we have opened. It it be the sac, and if there be no fluid between it and the bowel, we then recognise the gut; but if we were to cut rashly, we might cut into the bowel. We open the sac, and enlarge the incision, upwards and downwards, then introduce the flat director under the edge of the constriction. A probe-pointed bistoury, laid flat upon the director, is glided under the constriction, and its edge is then turned upwards so as to divide the sharp margin directly at its • centre. We can then get our finger so far under it as to feel the constriction and guide the bistoury. The director should not be used in dividing the deeper part of the stricture, but only to allow us to divide or notch the tight