CONTENTS. ix LECTUEE XCVII. Polypus of tlie Nostril : Simple ; Fibrous and Malignant ; their Symptoms and Treatment—Ozoena and its Treatment—Ulceration of the Septum Nasi— Ehittoplastic Operations : by Flaps from the Forehead or Cheeks—Liston's Operation for restoring the Columna Nasi—Partial Restoration of the Nose by Flap from the Arm ..... Pages 945-955 LECTURE XCVIII. Ulcers of the Lips—Epithelial Cancer of Lip : Operations for its removal; CheUo- plastic Operations—Harelip and Cleft Palate : Operations for the remedy of these Congenital Deformities ..... 956-964 LECTURE XCIX. Inflammation and Abscess of the Tonsils—Chronic Enlargement of the Tonsils— Excision of Tonsils—Eanula and other Sublingual Tumours—Salivary Con- cretions : their Symptoms, Diagnosis, and Treatment—Glossitis—Chronic Hypertrophy of the Tongue—Ulcers of the Tongue—Epithelial Cancer of the Tongue : Operations for its Eemoval—Tumours of Palate . 965-974 LECTURE C. Diseases of the Jaws—Abscess of the Antrum of Highinore : its Symptoms and Treatment—Abscess in Lower Jaw—Epulus—Cystic Tumours of Upper and Lower Jaws—Simple and Malignant Tumours of the Jaws—Excision of the Upper Jaw—Various Methods of performing the Operation—Excision of the Lower Jaw—Partial Eesections—Disarticulation of the Lower Jaw—Excision of the Central Portion of the Lower Jaw . . . 975-986 LECTURE CI Fracture of the Upper Jaw—Fractures of the Lower Jaw at different points : Causes of Displacement; Treatment—Dislocations of Lower Jaw : Method of Seduction—Injuries of Ear—Foreign Bodies in the Ear, and Modes of re- moving them—Obstruction of External Passage by Inspissated Cerumen— Eczematous Affection of Auricle and Passage—Otitis—Otorrhoea—Polypi and Polypoid Growths in the External Passage—Affections of the Eustachian Tube — Eustachian Catheterism — Use of Toynbee's Artificial Membrana Tympani ......... 987-998 LECTURE CIL Surgery of the Neck—Cervical Tumours : Simple and Malignant—Cervical Hy- pertrophies, as those of the Thyroid Body : Importance of careful Diagnosis