1114 REGIONAL SURGERY. diminished, for it escapes less directly and gradually as the air in the cellular tissue passes through the incisions. Hence, in all cases, I recommend making small incisions or punctures in different parts of the body, wherever the air is infiltrated, so as to let the air in the cellular tissue escape. If a person receives a Wound op the Thorax implicating the lung, when that organ is expanded in the act of inspiration, the lung does not collapse. Indeed, it being inflated, often pro- jects, so as to form a hernia of the lung. In such cases, the air entering by the air-passages into the distended lung counteracts the force of the air entering by the wound, which is doubtless gi'eater in amount, but still not sufficient to cause the lung to collapse. If, however, we have an external wound, and at the same time a wound of the lung-substance, such as might be in- flicted by the stab of a knife, then we can easily understand how collapse will take place ; because the air entering by the mouth escapes by the wound of the lung into the pleura while the air entering by the external opening rushes into the pleura at the same time, thus causing almost complete collapse of the lung. A certain amount of bleeding takes place in these injuries, and if we close the wound, as is sometimes recommended to be done, the lower part of the cavity of the chest becomes distended. This causes difficulty of breathing. The upper part of the chest has a resonant tympanitic sound on percussion, and the lower part a dull sound, for the blood from the wound falls towards the lower and back part of the chest, where it collects, and presses down the diaphragm to some extent. In the upper part of the chest the air which has escaped from the air-vessels is collected. If we see a case of wound of the chest imme- diately after the injury is received, then, if there be no wound of the lung-substance, it will be advantageous to close the wound at once, but when the lung itself is also injured, the proper plan of treatment is to leave the wound open, so as to allow the escape of the blood, as it is impossible entirely to con-