1180 REGIONAL SURGERY. testine, or using much pressure to return it into the abdomen. When much pressure is required, the constriction is not suffi- ciently divided, and unless it be more freely relieved, the tense bowel will suffer if it be forcibly returned. The Special Hernia most commonly met with in practice are Inguinal, Femoral, Ventral, and Umhilical. The other forms, Vaginal, Obturator, and Diaphragmatic, are very rare. I have seen a vaginal hernia, but I never met with an obturator hernia in the living. The points in the abdominal parietes where hernise pro- trude most frequently are the inguinal and femoral regions. The inguinal hernia is much more common in males than in females. I have not operated on more than four cases of strangulated inguinal hernia in women out of nearly 200 cases, and these I did not meet with till I had operated on more than 100 cases. The reason of this is, that in the female the canal, only transmitting the round ligament, is very small, and can scarcely be said to exist; the walls of the canal are in close apposition, except where the small cord-like ligament passes down. Again, in the female, the pelvis is very wide, and the space between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the pubes being larger than in the male, there is a larger space between the vessels and the crescentic margin of Gimbernat's ligament, and therefore the weakest point in the female is in the femoral, whilst in the male it is in the inguinal region. At the same time femoral hernia is by no means uncommon in males, though not so com- mon as inguinal hernia; but we require to operate very often for femoral in males, because it is more frequently irreducible from constriction than the inguinal. In the female, as I have said, an inguinal hernia is comparatively rare. 1. Inguinal Sernice are divisible into two great forms, the OUiqiie, and the Direct or Ventro-Inguinal. In an ordinary oblique inguinal hernia the protrusion passes down very nearly in the direction of the cord in the male and the round ligament in the female. If we trace it from within outwards, we find that it emerges, in the first instance, at what