EXCISION OF THE SCAPULA. 1107 twisted round so as to divide the remaining ligamentous attachments, and complete its disarticulation without risk to the great vessels at the root of the neck. The difficulty and danger of the operation cannot be estimated by operating on the dead body ; the irregular form of the diseased bone, or the bulk and shape of the tumour, or condensation of surrounding textures in the diseased state, being the chief sources of diffi- culty in performing the operation on the living. (See Clinical Cases.) Excision of the Scapula may be required on account of fibro- cartilaginous, or medullary sarcomatous tumours of the bone. I have already spoken of removal of the scapula along with the arm, but excision of the bone, leaving the upper extremity, is a more difficult, and in some respects, a more serious operation. The incisions of the integuments may require to be varied in different cases. In one case, when I had removed a large medullary cystic tumour from the axilla, I found the subscapular fossa affected by a similar growth, although the posterior aspect of the bone presented no appearance of disease. In that case, having already made a free incision in the axillary space, I made an incision from over the acromial end of the clavicle backwards along the spine of the scapula to beyond its base, and dissected back the large flap so marked out. I then divided the attach- ments of the trapezius, deltoid, rhomboid, and levator angulae scapulse muscles, and cut through the clavicle near its acro- mial end. The scapula was then drawn backwards and out- wards, disarticulated at the shoulder-joint, and the operation completed by dividing the serratus magnus. Under ordinary circumstances, I would, after making the incisions through the skin, begin by dividing the clavicle a little internal to the attach- ment of the coraco-claviciilar ligament, so as to enable an assistant to command the circulation, and so prevent the gush of blood which follows division of the subscapular artery. As to the lines of incision, I have said they must be varied in different cases ; but, in general, the best method is to make one long incision