SOUNDING. 1231 slowly, it often happens that, as the bladder contracts, the stone is brought into contact with the instrument, which can then be used as a sound. Whilst I consider the short-pointed sound as most suitable for complete exploration, I cannot help noticing a circumstance which has often struck me—viz. that in cases even where there had been some difficulty at first in detecting the stone by the sound, I never knew an instance in which the staff, when iutroduced for the purpose of performing lithotomy, did not, almost at once, strike the stone, thoiigh, from its long point and larger curve, it seems the most unlikely form of instru- ment for the purpose. In proceeding to explore with the sound, the preparations already mentioned having been attended to, the patient should be placed recumbent, with a pillow placed under the hips to elevate the pelvis. The surgeon, standing on the left side of the patient, introduces the sound, previously warmed and oiled, into the urethra. If the oval-pointed sound or the lithotrite be used for exploration, the large extremity must be introduced, so as to present its flattened surfaces to the sides of the orifice, to suit its long axis—not transversely, which would over-distend the opening. The instrument is then carried onwards, with the extremity bearing gently towards the right side and upper sur- face of the urethra, until it reaches the opening in the triangular ligament; the penis is then drawn gently forwards on the sound, whUst at the same time the operator depresses the handle of the instrument, to make it take the turn of the. canal, and pushes it onwards till he feels it enter the bladder. In depressing and passing home the sound, no force should be used, merely the gentle pressure of one or two fingers on the upper surface of the handle will suffice ; and when the litho- trite is used, the weight of the handle of the instrument requires only the finger to guide and give it direction. When the sound has entered the bladder, it may possibly strike the stone at once ; but still we require to ascertain its bulk, and whether it is movable, and other conditions. The surgeon waits for a minute or two, and then proceeds to