XX EXPLANA TION OF THE PLA TES. seen to retain their bulk and muscular character. The amputation had been performed in early life, and the head, neck, and trochanters of the femur, are seen to be remarkably altered in form and relation. Stump of leg, formed by long posterior flap method, thirteen years before the patient's death. The fibres of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, folded over the end of the bone, present all their muscular character, and very considerable thickness. See page 740. Drawn from a sketch taken by the late Sir Charles Bell, from an operation in the Eoyal Infirmary, To show the redundancy of muscle in the flap method by transfixion. The case was one of primary amputation. AMPUTATION.—Plate XXXIV.—Page 750. Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, represent the method of amputation of the thigh by a long anterior flap, on the principles recommended by the author. Pages 749-50. Fig. 1. The dotted lines mark the incisions and extent of the long anterior and short posterior flap. Fig. 2 shows the cut surface of the flaps, and the section of the condyloid end of the femiir, after the operation is completed. Figs. 3 and 4 are reduced copies of sketches from nature of a stump formed by the above procedure, twenty-one days after the operation. Fig. 3 gives a lateral, and Fig. 4 a front view of the stump. Sketched by Dr. Caton. Fig. 5 represents the result of the operation, aboiit a year after the opera- tion. The anterior flap is firndy consolidated over the end of the bone, and the cicatrix is seen to be retracted on the posterior aspect of the limb. By Mr. Livesay. Fig. 6 is an outline sketch from a stump, formed by double flap after Liston's method, of equal anterior and posterior flaps. The line of the cicatrix is seen in the centre of the surface of the stump, corresponding to the end of the bone. Fig. 7. Outline sketch of the author's modification of Liston's method, described at page 744. Plate XXXV.—Page 784. Amputation of a finger, by the method described at page 785. Amputation of forefinger. The distal end of the metacarpal bone is being removed obliquely by the angular cutting-pliers. Removal of middle finger and a portion of the metacarpal bone. The sketch shows the method of applying the straight cutting-pliers for section of the metacarpal bone. Fig. 4. Fig. 5.