1005 CERVICAL TUMOURS. and a sudden increase may threaten suffocation, as happened to a patient under my care, a notice of which will be found in the Clinical Cases. The Treatment of the solid or vascular forms of bronchocele must consist chiefly in the use of discutient remedies, exhibited both externally and internally, such as blisters applied over the swelling, followed by painting the surface with tincture of iodine, and the internal use of the iodide of potassium, continued for a length of time. Under this treatment the swelling gradually, in some cases rapidly, diminishes, and a cure is effected. Various plans for excision of the thyroid body, or ligature of all the thyroid arteries, have been proposed, but attempts to put them in practice have hitherto failed. Partial excisions, as in the case of the projecting tumours of the isthmus, have been successfully performed. In performing this operation, a free incision is made in the central line of the neck, the cellular tissue connecting the steruo-hyoid and thyroid muscle is divided, and these muscles separated with the point of the finger, and held aside, so as to display the tumour. After insulating it so far, its pedicle should be transfixed with a needle armed with a double lira- O ture, so as to embrace each half of it in a ligature. When the ligatures are firmly tied, the projecting mass of the tumour is cut off. In one case, in dissecting out a tumour in this position, after detaching it with very little bleeding, I i;nwarily divided the small remaining portion, when profuse hsemorrhage took place from a vessel in the position of the middle thyroid ; and, as it retracted toward the substernal region, it was very difficult to secure. A single ligature applied before division would have saved all the trouble. In excising the growths less directly connected with the lateral lobes of the thyroid, to whicli I have alluded, the principles of the operative procedure are the same as for removal of deep-seated tumours of the neck, keep- ing in mind our close proximity to the great vessels of the region and their branches, and also to the superior laryngeal nerve. But when the operator reaches the point of attachment to the thyroid, the best plan is to transfix and tie the immediately adjacent part