1347 RETROCEDENT GONORRHCEA. examine the urethra with a bougie, as not unfrequently the irri- tation causing gleet is kept up by the presence of a stricture. "When gonorrhoea is passing off it becomes retrocedent. The prostatic portion of the urethra becomes affected, and if the patient, thinking himself better, is imprudent, or so reckless as to indulge in any debauchery, acute abscess of the prostate may occur. This is attended with intense pain, and weight in the perineum, congestion and protrusion of the mucous membrane of the rectum, like hemorrhoids, and sometimes the serious mistake is made of treating the hemorrhoidal swelling by ligature, as being the cause of the symptoms. More generally, as the dis- charge ceases, the patient becomes affected by swelling of the testicle—Oechitis, or Hernia Humoralis. He complains of pain in the loins like lumbago, becomes feverish and nauseated, and the urine is scanty and high coloured. By and by pains of an acute character shoot along the inguinal canal, then intense pain is felt in the epididymis and spermatic cord, and the testicle becomes greatly swollen, tense, and painful. As the swelling increases, acute cedema of the scrotum occurs, or more generally effusion of serum takes place into the tunica vaginalis, constituting acute hydrocele, and from the vessels thus relieving themselves the tension and pain in the testicle is diminished. "When under treatment resolution is effected, the swelling, tension, and pain gradually disappear, and the symptomatic fever passes off. In most cases, however, hardness of the epididymis remains for a long time, and in some cases continues throughout after-life. During the retrocedent stage of gonorrhoea, irritation of the bladder, of a very acute character, frequently supervenes, and is, I believe, often induced by the use of cubebs in large doses. There is considerable pain in the bladder, almost constant desii'e to pass urine, only very small quantities being passed at a time with great straining and severe smarting pain at the neck of the bladder. If this condition be not soon relieved by appropriate treatment, spasm and engorgement of the textures at the neck of the bladder and around the urethra speedily lead to complete