1272 REGIONAL SURGERY. closing the incision through its substance on withdrawal of the tube, and as the swelling subsides, the urine again passes by the wound. In some cases retention supervenes, and may lead to danger. In one case of a young man on whom I had operated, I removed the tube at the usual time. About twenty-four hours afterwards, when making my visit, I was summoned to see him, as haemorrhage had occurred. As there had been no bleeding of consequence during the operation, I was rather surprised, but on going to him I found that there was smart florid bleeding. He stated that he had been trying to pass water, and on ex- amination I found the bladder distended and the penis semi-erect. I passed a large gum catheter by the wound, expecting to find the bladder distended by blood, but it was full of clear urine, and so soon as the bladder was relieved all bleeding ceased and never recurred. The swelling in the deep part of the wound had caused retention, and the irritation and straining had caused engorgement of the organs and bleeding from congested vessels in the wound. It is not unusual, when the urine begins to pass again by its natural channel, to find the patient complain of a slight rigor or shivering; but this is merely due to sympathetic irritation, as the rigor that often follows the introduction of a bougie, and unless there be a repetition of the rigor or marked increase in the rapidity of the pulse, the symptom need not cause alarm. If the incision has been carried too far laterally or upwards, infiltration of urine into the cellular tissue around the neck of the bladder may occur. The symptoms may supervene from twenty-four to forty-eight hours after the operation. The skin becomes hot and dry, the tongue furred, and the pulse quick. Gradually the patient becomes very restless, complains of a sense of fulness or pain in the hypogastrium, and there is some degree of tympanitic distension. The pulse becomes weak and irritable, and gradually begins to intermit; the intermissions becoming more frequent as the diseased action proceeds ; the patient has a sunken, anxious expression, fumbles with the bedclothes, there is frequent hiccough, and incoherency or muttering