ANA TOMY OF THE URETHRA. 1295 canal, and traverses the interval between the two layers of the triangiilar ligament in a somewhat oblique direction from behind forwards, and from above downwards. If we measure this por- tion, where it lies between the layers of the triangular ligament, its length is 6 lines, or if we regard it as extending from the apex of the prostate to the bulb of the urethra, its length is 7^ or 8 lines. The portion lying between the layers is wide, dilat- able, and only loosely connected with the vascular and muscular tissues which surround it. Where it traverses the opening in the ligament it is closely attached to that resistant structure, is narrowed in passing through the opening, and receives an expan- sion of the fascia which is continued over the bulb, and gradually lost upon the spongy portion. When the urethra emerges from the opening in the triangiilar ligament, it comes in contact, and becomes intimately connected throughout its course, with a pecidiar vascular erectile tissue, which, commencing in a pen- dulous or bulbous form near the urethral opening va, the triangu- lar ligament, terminates by forming the glans penis. This spongy portion of the urethra, as it is termed, is by far the longest part of the canal, its usual length being 6J inches, but it varies not only in different subjects, but according to the state of the penis, as will be seen by referencp to the results of my measurements of the urethra. The mucous canal, corresponding to the spongy texture, presents some points worthy of our notice in reference to their surgical bearings. At the part where it corresponds to the bulb its lower wall or floor dilates into a sinus, which lies farther back in the perineum than the urethral opening in the triangular ligament, and hence an instrument has a tendency to pass into this sinus of the bulb, and, in such a case, when the handle is depressed the point hitches in the sinus below the margin of the opening. Into this sinus also the ducts of Cowper's glands open, a fact which we require to keep in mind in reference to some forms of perineal fistula. Along the whole mucous surface of the urethra are numerous small lacunae. Near the orifice the mucoiis surface presents a very large lacuna, which sometimes gets the blame