CERVICAL TUMOURS. 1001 certainty of removal of the defined growth. In deep-seated malignant tumours, on the contrary, however defined or loose they may feel, there is no real definition. They are often attached by a deep pedicle to the cervical vertebrae, and involve the deep ligamentous texture between the vertebral processes, so that complete removal is impossible, and the tumour is repro- duced rapidly, and, if possible, in a worse form than at first. In other cases of cancerous tumours, there is no definition— the mass involves all the structures in its vicinity. I have already, in lecturing on tumour-growths, specially dwelt on the characteristics of malignant, as distinguished from simple growths, and I contrasted the general appearance and expression of patients by sketches of two large cervical growths (Lecture xvii. Plate V.) Having formed your conclusions as to the nature of the growth, and decided that it is one suited for removal, you have next to consider its relation to neighbouring important structures, —^how far their functions have already been interfered with, or may be interfered with during or after the operation—then to plan your incisions so as to avoid deformity or risk to important structures, and take means to obviate haemorrhage or the entrance of air into the enlarged veins which may require to be divided. This last is a risk that might not be thought of, and therefore I direct your attention to it, for the superficial veins over large tumours, near the lower part of the neck, become enormously enlarged, owing either to the venous circulation being interrupted by the position of the tumour, or in consequence of their having to return the blood which circulates in the growth. The fascial structures over the tumour, and connected with these veins, keep their orifices from collapsing when divided, and air might enter them and prove fatal, unless the operator take care to tie them with two ligatures before division, or to compress them with needles. In regard to details, these must vary in almost every case ; but, in regard to the method of examining and dealing with large deep cervical growths, I think I will be able to illustrate that best by referring you to two cases, accounts of