REGIONAL SURGERY. 1042 in size as just described; and, secondly, of a circular reflector, slightly concave, and perforated in the centre like that of the ophthalmoscope. The latter is the concentrator of the light. It is adjusted in front of the operator's right eye, being fixed in position by its attachment to a pair of spectacles made for the purpose, or better, perhaps, by a belt which encircles his head. The joint by which it is thus attached ought to allow consider- able latitude of movement in every direction, and at the same time bo stiff enough to retain the mirror in position at any angle. It is now usually made upon the ball-and-socket prin- ciple, as this is the most simple and most easily tightened when it becomes loose. In using the instrument, the operator places his lamp, which may be a good oil one or a strong gas jet, above and slightly behind the patient's right shoulder, so that his face will be in the shade. He is then requested to put out his tongue, and to retain it so by holding the point with a handkerchief between the right forefinger and thumb. The chin, at the same time, is slightly raised, the neck stretched forwards, and the mouth well opened. In this position the operator, throwing a strong light into the throat from the large reflector, may first, at a glance, examine into the state of the mouth and fauces. He then, to prevent tarnishing with the breath, gently heats the small throat- mirror, either by placing it for an instant over the lamp, with its glass face downwards, or by dipping it in hot water. Hold- ing it now by the stalk, like a pen, he carefully but promptly introduces it into the throat, avoiding contact with all the parts except the soft palate and uvula, against which he applies the metallic back of the mirror, pushing it gently backwards and iipwards. The handle, which is held at the angle of the mouth, is at the same time slightly depressed, until the proper angle of reflection is obtained. It is well for the operator to ensure the steadiness of his hand by resting the tips of the ring and little fingers against the cheek of the patient. The extent of the parts thus displayed varies greatly in dif- ferent individuals. The epiglottis can almost always be dis-