1244 REGIONAL SURGERY. The posterior or anal region of the perineum, the anterior part of which is implicated in the lateral and bilateral methods of lithotomy, is occupied in the centre, and to some extent laterally, by the anus and the lower pouch of the rectum, on either side of which we find the ischio-rectal fossse, containing a quantity of fat and loose cellular tissue and the inferior heemorrhoidal arteries and veins. The widest part of the space, in reference to lithotomy, is between the tuberosities of the ischium. The measurement here is very variable. Dupuytren and Velpeau give its dimensions— the former as varying from 2 to 3j, and Velpeau from less than 2 to 4 inches. The general average of my own measurements is rather less than 3 inches. When viewed as in lithotomy, the anterior space is bounded by the scrotum, and in the central line we remark the raised line or raph^, and the fulness caused by the spongy part of the urethra. The space is covered by the skin and common superficial fascia ; under this it is closed in by a dense layer of fascia, the true superficial fascia of the perineum. Under it we find the superficial perineal branches of the pudic artery and nerve, the accelerator urinae muscle covering the bulb and spongy portion of the urethra and part of the surface of the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, and laterally, in close contact with the accelerator anteriorly, is the erector penis covering the crus penis. Posteriorly the transversus perinei muscle crosses the space from the tuberosity of the ischium to the central point of the perineum. If we now draw aside the erector penis, clear away the posterior fibres of the accelerator, and draw down or divide the transversus perinei, we perceive a dense aponeurotic structure. This is the anterior or super- ficial layer of the triangular ligament, which stretches across and closes the anterior part of the perineum, merely presenting an opening for the urethra. This triangular ligament consists of two layers which coalesce at the posterior boundary of the ante- rior triangle, but which are elsewhere separated for nearly the depth of 3-4ths of an inch. This interval between the layers is traversed from above downwards and forwards by the mem-