REGIONAL SURGERY. 1136 to give support. A small piece of adhesive plaster is placed over tlie puncture, and the patient placed in bed. During the opera- tion a little wine may be given if the patient feels faint; and he may require to be placed recumbent if very weak. If the puncture be made at the part of the abdomen I have indicated, bleeding cannot take place, except it be from distended veins, or some peculiar condition of the parietes. I recollect one case in which I was asked to operate, because on a previous occa- sion, when the patient was tapped, very profuse arterial haemor- rhage had taken place. On the occasion I performed it all went prosperously, but about a year afterwards the woman died, and I was present at the examination of the body. There was malignant disease of the uterus, and the lower and forepart of the parietal peritoneum was covered by a growth of a pulpy or spongy and vascular character, about three-fourths of an inch in thickness. This had been punctured in the first tapping, and my puncture had merely escaped touching it by about half-an-inch. That, however, was the only case in which I ever knew of active bleed- ing taking place when the puncture was in the middle Hne. It occasionally happens that towards the latter part of the operation the flow of the liquid through the canula is suddenly interrupted : this is due to some part of the omentum or intestine falling over the orifice. In these circumstances, by a slight change in the position of the patient, or by gently pushing aside the obstruc- tion with a probe introduced through the canula, the flow is re- established. Abscesses in the Abdominal Paeietes require great care to be exercised in their diagnosis, in case they should be mistaken for other diseases, or vice, versa, and wrong treatment adopted. I have occasionally seen a low form of suppuration over and along the course of the spermatic cord in the inguinal canal, where the progress of the diseased action was slow, and yet attended with great pain and general irritative fever. In such cases the swell- ing is seen and felt superficially, the pus is deeply seated, and