991 INyURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EAR. light infantry, liad the greater part of his ear carried away by a round shot at tlie battle of Waterloo ; so that, in both these in- stances, the head must have had a very narrow escape. We are frequently called on to remove foreign bodies which have been pushed into the external meatus. These accidents generally occur in young children, and the substances inserted are very various—small stones, peas, glass beads, and the ^ke. Here, as in similar accidents in the x;ase of tlie nostrjls, abortive attempts are too often made before the little patient is brought to the surgeon, and the dif^culty ,of removing the foreign body very much increased thejreby. In proceeding to extract foreign substances from the ear, we must bear in mind the delicacy of the organ, and risk of exciting diseased action in the middle and internal ear, and the danger conse(lu.ent on the .close proximity to the brain, more especially in young children; for death has sometimes followed violent or ill-directed attempts at extrac- tion. In cases where the child is brought to us before any inter- ference has been attempted, if the substance can be readily seen, there will be no great difficulty ha removing it. The pa,tient's head being firmly held, a small lever-scoop should be passed fairly over and beyond the foreign body, and then the handle of the ciirette raised, and the instrument used as a lever, to tilt out the substance if impacted ; or^ if it be loose, the curette is merely used to draw it out. In cases whexe attempts have been made to extract the substance, and in which it is dqeply im- pacted, we must proceed very cautiously, as the membrane of the tympanum may have been ruptured, and the foreign body impacted deeper in the middle ear ; and I have kno;\vn instances in which the promontory of the tynipanmn has been mistaken for the offending substance. In all such cases of impaction it is essential that the surgeon should see the foreign body ; and, as the membrane of the meatus is swollen, and the passage blocked up or encrusted with blood, this must be cleared away. The first thing, therefore, that we should do, is to syringe out the passage with tepid water; this will allay the irritation and re- move the coagulated blood, and then, by means of the tubular