1223 DIAGNOSIS OF CALCULUS. simulated by those of some other diseases. In irritable bladder, and chronic or acute cystitis, many of the symptoms are identical with those of stone ; there is a constant desire to pass water, with pain in doing so from the violent contraction of the muscular fibres, and from the irritable state of the mucous membrane of the bladder ; and sometimes, from the irritation and spasm, the stream of water is arrested for a little, and then goes on again. In disease of the prostate, also, there is a similar condition, but both in this and in irritable bladder, the pain, as a general rule, is greatest before and whilst making water, and relieved after the bladder is emptied; if there is any pain after making water, it gradually passes off, while in stone the pain is, as already explained, most intense after the bladder is emptied. It is not always easy to diagnose disease of the prostate from stone in the bladder. In cases of enlargement of the third lobe of the prostate, when that projection is incrusted with earthy matter, the irritation thus produced is almost identical with that caused by a calculus, as the lobe is somewhat pendixlous, and in some cases forms a valvular projection; there are, in fact, pliysical causes in operation similar to those which give rise to the symptoms in cases of stone in the bladder. Even in sound- ing there is a difficulty in diagnosis, for we feel the sound rubbing against the earthy matter on the prostate, which com- municates a sensation like that produced by the rub of the sound on a calculus, and in the case of the pendulous projection we can pass the sound above and under it. In children the presence of ascarides in the rectum may very closely simulate the symptoms of stone. I have in several cases seen all the symptoms of stone present when no stone really existed, but they disappeared when the ascarides were removed from the rectum—hence in any doubtful case we should, especially in children, examine the state of the lower bowel. The pain is not always in proportion to the irregularities on the surface of the stone, for we have sometimes a smooth surface accompanied by symptoms as severe as those produced by mulberry calculus. This is due more to the deranged nervous