REGIONAL SURGERY. 1374 knife, severs the organ well above the diseased part. He next looks for and secures the open mouths of the dorsal arteries of the penis, and the central artery of each half of the corpus cavernosum. The constricting bandage is then slackened, and two small vessels in the corpus spongiosum, on each side of and close to the section of the canal of the urethra, generally require to be tied, and also perhaps some small tegumentary twigs. The general oozing from the section of the corpus cavernosum, which is principally venous, is best arrested by the application of ice ; or, if necessary, a little of the infusion of matico or per- chloride of iron. A soft vulcanised india-rubber catheter is then introduced into the bladder, and a circular piece of lint, soaked in carbolised oil, and perforated so as to pass over the catheter, is applied upon the cut surface of the penis. By this arrange- ment the urine is prevented from irritating the raw surface. After forty-eight hours, or sooner, the catheter is withdrawn, and only occasionally introduced, to prevent closure of the urethra during the cicatrisation. Subsequently the patient should be furnished with a short straight metallic bougie to introduce from time to time, as there is always a tendency to contrac- tion of the orifice, even for years after the wound has healed, unless preventive measures be taken. The Diseases of the Genito-Urinaey Oegans m the Female have of late years had much attention bestowed upon them by obstetricians, and their treatment has in a great degree become a kind of special practice, forming what is termed Obstetric Surgery. Diseases of the Ovaeies, in all that appertains to their diagnosis, and the earlier part of their treatment, belong properly to the domain of obstetric medicine, whilst the operation of ovariotomy belongs strictly to that of surgery. It will thus be evident to you that questions involving such breadth of detail and nicety of discrimination, can hardly be done full justice to in a course of instruction which only professes to deal with sur-