REGIONAL SURGERY. 1242 All the metliods of performing Sub-pubic or Perineal Lithotomy have for their object the extraction of the stone, by incisions, through the parts closing the inferior outlet of the pelvis. This outlet or space in which the incisions must be made is limited by osseous and ligamentous boundaries, and by the relations of the great pudic artery, and some of its branches, which, at certain points, lie close to the lines of incision of some of the methods. Deeply, towards the pelvis, the extent and direction of the incisions of the prostate are limited by the connections of the pelvic fascia ; whilst posteriorly the widest part of the outlet is largely occupied by the lower part of the rectum. As regards perineal lithotomy, the problem to be solved is, to obtain an opening from the perineum into the bladder of sufficient size to admit of the easy extraction of the stone, without passing beyond the limits of the prostate gland and its fascial coverings, with the least risk to the pudic artery or its branches, and without injury of the rectum. In the recto-vesical method the last consideration is of course disregarded, as wound of the rectum forms in it a part of the operative procedure. Lithotomy by any of the perineal methods is an operation which, although in many cases simple and easy of performance, is in other instances attended with great difficulties, requiring all the skill, dexterity, and determination of the most experienced to overcome. Such difficult cases the surgeon who undertakes the operation must be prepared to meet, and, like every other surgical operation, it especially requires a thorough knowledge of the anatomy of the parts concerned in the operation. Although the modifications of the different methods of perineal lithotomy are almost endless, these methods may be enumerated under four heads—viz. 1st, the lateral operation—that most generally performed ; 2d, the bi-lateral operation; 3d, the central or median operation; and 4th, the recto-vesical or median opera- tion, combined with division of the anterior wall of the rectum. Before you can understand the comparative merits or demerits of these different methods, it is first necessary that I point out