1190 REGIONAL SURGERY. margin, and then we can complete the division of the stricture more safely by using our finger as a guide. In oj)erating on large scrotal hernise great care should be taken not to open the sac too largely. It should be opened about an inch or little more below the neck, and slit up to the point of constriction, and then the stricture divided by the probe-pointed bistoury, guided on the finger or flat director. If this be done^ and the constricted portion gently drawn down, and then returned, mode- rate equal pressure on the fundus and body of the sac made with the left hand, whilst the right hand regulates the neck of the protrusion, will usually suffice to reduce it, without any undue fingering or manipulation of the intestine. On the contrary, if this rule be not observed, and the sac be largely slit up throiagh- out nearly its whole extent, the convolutions of the imprisoned intestine escape in all directions, twist upon themselves, render the division of the constriction more difficult, and, worst of all, require too much handling of the intestines to repress and reduce them. The same observations apply to all large hernife. In certain cases, complicated by adhesions or other peculiar condi- tions, we must open the sac largely to examine and deal with the complications, whatever these may be; but such cases are excep- tions to a great general rule. (See Plate lii. Fig. 2.) In cases where the state of the hernia contra-indicates the extra-peritoneal operation, we open the sac without making any attempt to divide the constriction on its exterior. The sac is opened, and the constriction divided, as described above. After the operation, a flat compress of lint, supported by a folded soft towel or napkin, and seciired by the spica bandage, is applied. In applying the bandage the thigh should be slightly flexed on the pelvis, so that when the limb is stretched it becomes firmer. The same general rules as to the extent and method of making the incisions, apply to the operation for direct or ventro- inguinal hernia as for oblique. We mvist, however, bear in mind the difference in the anatomical relations which I have previously alluded to. First, that the protrusion occurs through