1212 REGIONAL SURGERY. as I have already pointed out, the truss, properly and persistently applied till the development of the abdominal parietes, in- creases the obliquity of the canal, causes a really permanent cure in most instances ; and in children I therefore consider opera- tive procedure unwarrantable. The principles of the operations of Gerdy and Wiirtzer for the radical cure of hernia are nearly the same. They both con- sist in invaginating the sac and superimposed integuments after returning the contents of the sac, without any preliminary inci- sion, and then carrying a needle through the upper part of the sac and the skin. By means of the strong thread with which the needle is armed, a plug of wood, gum elastic, or a portion of wax candle proportioned to the parts, is drawn up through the whole extent of the invaginated textures, and fixed by tying the thread, and applying a compress over all. The plug is generally anointed with some irritating substance to cause excoriation of the invaginated skin, so as to make its opposed surfaces adhere when the plug is withdrawn, and, finally, firm compression kept up for some time. In Wiirtzer's method these objects are effected by a special apparatus, but for my own part I prefer the finger to guide the needle, so as to be sure that no por- tion of gut has fallen down after having been reduced. In oper- ations performed on these plans it has been found, as I have stated, that though successful for a time the protrusion oiten recurs. The method of Professor Wood, of King's College, London, seems to me to promise more permanent chances of success, though not devoid of risk. The principles of Professor Wood's operation are, limited incision of the superjacent tissues to insure proper invagination of the textures, and enable the needle to be carried with certainty and safety in the directions de- scribed. But liis special object is not merely invagination of the sac and skin, but to carry the needle and copper wire suture in such directions as will enable him to draw together the aponeurotic or fascial margins of the openings through which the hernia has descended, close these openings, and narrow the