REGIONAL SURGERY. 10-16 rated by dividing the fibro-cellular tissue connecting the margins of the sterno-hyoid muscles, in the line and to the extent of cutaneous incision. If the finger be placed deeply in the wound at this stage, the trachea is felt pretty distinctly, and may seem so distinct as to warrant the surgeon in inserting his bistoury to divide the rings ; but I hold that this ought not to be done, because not only may there be the substance of tlie thymus gland flattened under the finger, but deeper, and passing from that gland to the thyroid, there exist numerous vessels which would bleed profusely. I have more than once pointed out this to the gentlemen assisting me at my operations. After separating the lobes of the thymus gland, even after these vessels and the thymus are pushed aside, I clear the rings of tlie trachea with the knife from loose cellular tissue, so that there may be no obstruction to the entrance of the silver tube when the opening is made in the trachea. In cases of croup the tube should not be introduced too quickly, as in that case it might prove an obstruction to the ejection of the false membrane. I generally keep the opening in the trachea patent by means of a double blunt hook, which I have devised for the purpose, until such time as the detached shreds are coughed up. Should there be venous bleeding, however, the tube must be inserted at once. On the tube being introduced, the head should be bent slightly forwards. The description just given of the steps of the operation in children, is that which I gave in a paper read before the Medico- Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh, ten years ago, after a very considerable experience in performing tracheotomy on children; and after a still larger experience (now, I believe, the largest of any surgeon in this country, having performed it ninety-seven times on children), I have nothing to alter in or add to my directions. By attending to the rules laid down, whilst all hurry should be avoided, the operation will be executed at once safely and expeditiously. In some very extreme cases I have found it necessary to proceed very rapidly, as the infants were apparently asphyxiated,