1240 REGIONAL SURGERY. the risk of urinary infiltration. Others recommend cutting down on the bladder and exposing it; then, some forty-eight hours afterwards, opening it and extracting the stone. But, to say nothing of two operations, the objection to this latter plan is obvious—the patient could not contain his water for forty- eight hours ; and, therefore, the bladder would shift its position slightly in the interval between the two oj)erations. When the supra-pubic operation is really required, I believe that the best plan is simply to cut into the bladder above the pubes, with the proper precautions, and extract the stone ; and afterwards to introduce, by the urethra, a flexible or vulcanised india-rubber catheter, and keep it constantly in, to allow the urine to flow off by the natural passage, and so prevent, or at least lessen the risk of infiltration. Still further, by placing the patient on his side, and introducing a long narrow strip of gutta-percha tissue, previously varnished, into the wound of the bladder, and allow- ing the end to hang out over the side of the incision, the over- flow of urine will pass along it. This may be still further assisted by means of tepid water constantly dripping into the wound from an irrigating apparatus, should that be thought necessary ; but I confess I have but little faith in such irrigation. I have seen one case of the high operation under treatment on the Con- tinent, where the patient, a boy, was lying with the lower part of his body immersed in a tepid bath, and had been kept in it for some days. He seemed to be very comfortable. The principle of the operation is founded on the varying position of the bladder, and its relation to the peritoneum in different states of the viscus. When distended, the bladder rises above the pubis, and gradually throws upwards the fold of the peritoneum, which, in its contracted state, lies upon it. As it becomes very fully dis- tended, the peritoneum is thrown off its anterior surface alto- gether, so that, by cutting down upon it in the mesial line above the pubis, we can open into the bladder without wounding the peritoneum. The bladder, therefore, requires to be very fully distended, or injected with water, before operating, so that it may occupy the proper position. Some recommend that a large