CONTENTS. xiii LECTURE CXIX. Perineal Lithotomy, continued—Preliminary arrangements—Celsian Operation " on the Gripe "—Operation by the " Apparatus Major "—Lateral Operation as introduced by Frfere Jacques—Description of the Modern Lateral Opera- tion—Modifications of the Operation—Lateral Lithotomy in Children— Lithotomy in Patients who have been previously operated on—Bilateral Lithotomy : Advantages iu certain cases . . Pages 1252-1265 LECTUEE CXX. Lithotomy, continued—Mesial Operation—Eecto-vesical Operation—Points to be attended to ia regard to Extraction of the Stone—General After-Treatment— Haemorrhage—Infiltration of Urine after Lithotomy—Suppression of Urine— Inflammation of the Neck of the Bladder—Pyaemia—The Author's experience of the results of Lithotomy Cases — Kemarks on Statistics of Lithotomy— Lithotomy in the Female ..... 1266-1279 LECTURE CXXL Diseases of the Urinary Organs—Eetention of Urine from a Calculus in the Urethra : from Injuries ; from Paralysis or Atony of the Bladder—Disease of the Prostate Gland—Catheterism in cases of Enlarged Prostate—Methods of relieving Eetention when the Catheter cannot be passed . 1280-1291 LECTURE CXXIL Eetention of Urine from Stricture of the Urethra—Spasmodic or Congested Stric- ture : Treatment—Organic Stricture—Anatomy of the male Urethra—Patho- logy of Urethral Stricture—Morbid Changes in other parts of the Genito- urinary Organs arising from Stricture—Fistula in Perineo . 1292-1304 LECTURE CXXIIL Symptoms of Urethral Stricture—Secondary effects on the Digestive Functions and on the Nervous centres—Positive Diagnosis of Organic Stricture—Treat- ment of Eetention of Urine, arising from Tight Stricture—Curative Treat- ment by Vital Dilatation—Dupuytren's plan of Vital Dilatation 1305-1316 LECTURE CXXIV. Treatment of Urethral Stricture, continued—Use of Caustics : their Dangers— Holt's Method of Immediate Dilatation^—Precautions after Treatment—Section of the Stricture from within by Lancetted Catheters—Perineal Section—Old Operation in Impermeable Contractions—Syme's Method : description of the Operation—Special points to be attended to in Operating, and in the After- Treatment ....... 1317-1328