vii CONTENTS. LECTUEE LXXXVI. Amputation continued—Caiises of Mortality—Statistics—Circumstances modify- ing the Value of the Information derived from them—Table exhibiting the Eesults of Author's Practice—Comments on and Deductions made from them Pages 760-782 LECTUEE LXXXVII. Special Amputations—The Upper Extremity—Amputation of the Distal Phalanx of Finger ; of the whole Finger ; of Fingers and their Metacarpal Bones ; of the Thumb—Partial Amputation of the Hand—Amputation at the Wrist- Joint—Lines of Incision and Form of Flaps—Amputation of the Forearm— By Double Flap—Teale's Method by transfixion . . . 783-793 LECTUEE LXXXVIIL Amputations in the Upper Extremity continued—At the Elbow-Joint—Amputa- tion of the Upper Arm by the Circular Method : by the Antero-Posterior and Lateral Flap Methods—Teale's Method—Amputation at the Shoulder- Joint : by a large Deltoid Flap ; by Double-Flap Method—Advantages and Disadvantages of each — The Author's own Method : its Advantages— Details of his mode of conducting the Operation—Amputation of Arm and Scapula . ....... 794-803 LECTUEE LXXXIX. Special Amputations continued—Lower Extremity—Amputation of the Phalanges of the Toes : of the Phalanges of the great Toe with or without its Meta- tarsal Bone — Partial Amputations of the Foot; of all the Toes : Hey's Operation ; Chopart's Operation—Amputation at the Ankle : by Syme's Method ; by a large Internal Flap—Other Modifications . 804-813 LECTUEE XC. Amputation of the Leg : Primary and Secondary ; by the Circular Method ; by long Posterior Flap ; by Teale's Method—Amputation at the Knee-Joint—■ Amputation at the Thigh by transfixion : by long Anterior Flap ; Author's Method ; by Circular Method—Amputation at the Hip-Joint : Advantages ; Steps of the Operation—Artificial Limbs . . . 814-852 LECTUEE XCL Injuries of the Head—Anatomy of the Textures involved, viewed in its Normal and Pathological Aspects—Primary and Secondary Effects of Injuries— "Wounds and Bruises of Scalp : their Varieties, Phenomena, Complications,