1286 REGIONAL SURGERY. In treating cases of prostatic disease, if we had merely to relieve the retention of urine, their treatment would be attended with no great difficulty. But although in most cases of enlarged prostate we have the state of complete retention occurring after exacerbations caused by cold, errors of diet, and frequently coming on at certain seasons, as in spring and autiimn, yet the patients generally suffer more or less continually from irritable bladder or chronic cystitis. The bladder, in some cases, is never thoroughly evacuated, and the urine is apt to become decom- posed, and to keep up or increase the irritable or inflamed state of the organ. In treating such cases, therefore, we must attend to the general state of the patient. The use of the hip-bath and warm fomentations over the abdomen are beneficial, and the urine must be frequently examined, as it should be in all cases of urinary disease. If retention of urine be present when we are called to the patient, we must relieve that at once by the use of the catheter. We must not be thrown off our guard by the statement that an instrument has been used, and that there is no water in the bladder, as only some blood came away, for in that case we may safely conclude that the catheter has not been in the bladder, but has made a false passage through the urethra, or lodged in the dilated prostatic urethra. In some instances you may even get away a little water from this prostatic portion of the canal, which is often dilated into a small pouch, containing the urine which overflows from the distended bladder, and this urine, flowing by the catheter, might mislead into the belief that the catheter had entered the bladder. We are often told that the patient is constantly micturating, so that there can bfe nothing in the bladder ; but in all cases we should examine the abdomen by percussion and palpation, as that will show the true state of the bladder. We cannot feel the bladder from the rectum when the prostate is very much enlarged, because it is thrown up from the pelvis ; but we can always feel it from the abdominal parietes. Where there is the least doubt, we should pass the catheter and satisfy ourselves as to the real state of matters.