DIAGNOSIS. 1203 conjunction with the history of the case, leaves little doubt as to its character. Varix of the femoral vein, distending and pressing out the thin fascia on the inner side of its sheath, has somewhat the appearance of a small hernia; but the sensation to the finger is quite different, and, moreover, it must be very rare indeed that varix of the femoral exists without a varicose condition of the saphena and other veins of the lower extremity, and this will generally give a clue to the nature of the swelling. Except when symptoms of strangulation exist, cystic and fatty tumours in the femoral region wUl be distinguished from hernia by their form, feeKng, want of direct impulse, and irreducibility. They may, however, prove puzzling to the surgeon when operating for symptoms of strangulation. I have in several cases met with such cysts overlying a hernia. In one case I found no less than four cysts about the size of large grapes under the fascia over- lying a small strangulated hernia, and when I opened the first, I thought, from the escape of serous fluid, that it was an empty hernial sac, but on perceiving the others I saw their real cha- racter, and dissected them off and exposed the true sac. As regards the diagnosis between femoral and small oblique inguinal herniae, I have never found any great difficulty in distinguishing them. Though a femoral hernia does ascend obliquely towards the abdomen, it does not pass up to the level of, nor in the direction of, the deep abdominal ring. The connection between Scarpa's fascia and the common super- ficial fascia a little above Poupart's ligament prevents it ascend- ing far, and so it passes more transversely out towards the iliac spine, and does not present the obliquity of an inguinal hernia. Besides, unless the sac and its fascial coverings have become adherent to the adjacent textures, we can, even in strangu- lated femoral hernia, bring down the tumour from off Poupart's ligament, so as to ascertain distinctly its relations and the point from which the neck emerges. It is only in old adherent and irreducible herniae that difficulty in diagnosis between the two forms can occur.