REGIONAL SURGERY. 1118 results of inflammatory action, and the general symptoms, especially the rigors and hectic, usually present in cases of empyema, will distinguish that from simple hydrothorax. By the term Pneumothorax is meant the distension of the cavity of the pleura with air, and this may arise either from injury or from disease of the lung; but it is with the condition as it occurs from injury that we have at present to do. The escape of air, from a wound of the lung, into the pleura, or the entrance of air from without, occasionally follows penetrating wounds of the chest. But the cases in which the pent-up air distends the cavity of the pleura, causing collapse of the lung, and oppressed respiration and circulation, are those of simple fracture of a rib, where a sharp point of the broken bone has punctured the pleura and lung-substance, and wounded some air-vessels. In such cases the small and possibly oblique wound of the pleura-costalis and intercostal textures does not permit the air to escape from the chest into the superficial cellular tis- sue, as in the case of extensive fracture, where we have emphy- sema with some pneumothorax. The air therefore escapes from the injured lung, untU it collapses, and accumulates in the shut sac of the pleura ; and thus we have the interference with the circulation and respiration. The symptom which distinguishes it from haematothorax is the clear tympanitic sound on percussion. The respiratory murmur is lost, but the sound of the air enter- ing the large bronchi at the root of the lung is preternaturally loud. The circulation is less speedily affected than in hsemato- thorax, because here there is no loss of blood from the system, and also because the displacement of the heart and great blood- vessels is seldom so great as in the case of distension by effused blood or other fluids, such as serum or pus. As regards Treatment, unless the general symptoms be very urgent, it is well to wait a little before drawing off the con- fined air, so that the wound of the lung-substance may be closed by lymph or coagulated blood, which will serve to prevent the