1078 REGIONAL SURGERY. remarks on Mrs. Jepson's case, I entered so fully on the special circumstances to be considered in deciding on the propriety of operating, that I would merely refer to it for information on these points, and limit my further observations on the present case to peculiarities in regard to its anatomical relations. In the lad Manson, though the tumour was a very large one, it was entirely confined to the region of the neck, and hence did not give rise to the same amount of deformity as in Mrs. Jepson, in whom the growth occupied the parotid as well as the cervical region. In Manson, however, the tumour passed lower down into the subclavian and sternal regions, and, from being placed on the left side, lay in a position to press upon the thoracic duct and left recurrent nerve ; whilst the textures covering it in the sternal fossa rendered it impossible to ascertain positively its definition or attachments there. The perfect nutrition of the patient, however, showed that, though in close relation with the thoracic duct, it could not have involved that structure ; and though the spasmodic difficulty of breathing at night, which he occasionally felt, might be due to pressure on the left recurrent laryngeal, the symptom was only of recent occurrence and not constant, and hence was more likely to arise from pressure owing to the proximity of the tumour, than from the nerve being involved in or adherent to it. These considerations, taken in connection with the simple nature of the growth, and its origin high up in the neck, seemed to warrant the conclusion that its substernal portion was free, and merely bound down by the fascia and muscles. During the operation some peculiarities showed themselves, which I think worthy of notice as exemplifying the difficulties we must be prepared for, and the care required in such opera- tions, or rather dissections, of the neck. When the anterior margins of the tumour had been freed, and its deep surface dis- sected and raised off from the position of the carotid sheath, the whole length of the cervical portion of the carotid artery and vagus nerve was seen bare as if dissected, but there was no appearance of the internal jugular vein. This made me proceed