xi CONTENTS. mental means—After-Treatment wlien they have entered the Stomach—Dis- eases of the Pharynx—Lateral and Posterior Pharyngeal Abscess—Strictm-e of the (Esophagus : Spasmodic and Organic ; Simple and Malignant Pages 1049-1103 LECTURE CVIII. Injuries and Diseases of the Thorax: superficial and deep-seated—Diseases of the Clavicle—Excision of Clavicle—Excision of Scapula—Diseases of the Mammae : Abscess ; Hypertrophy ; Tumour—Excision of Mamma. Fracture of the Ribs : Diagnosis ; Treatment—Emphysema—"Wounds of Thorax : method of examining them ; Dangers and Complications attending them— Pneumothorax, Hjematothorax, Hydrothorax, and Emphysema : their Symp- toms ; Treatment. ...... 1104-1127 LECTURE CIX. Abdominal Wounds: their Nature, Variety, Risks, Complications, and Treat- ment, General and Special—Traumatic Peritonitis : its Symptoms, Patho- logy, Prognosis, and Treatment—The Operation of Paracentesis Abdominis : when and how to perform it—Chronic Abdominal Abscess, diffuse and cu'cuniscribed—Perityphlitis—Iliac, Lumbar, and Psoas Abscess : Diagnosis and Treatment ....... 1128-1139 LECTURE ex. Hernia : definition of the term—Mechanism of Abdominal Hernia, and Nature of the Protrusion—Formation of the Hernial Sac, and its relations to the Visceral Peritoneum—Structural Changes which the Sac and its contents undergo—the Fascia Propria : whenee derived and how distinguished—Con- tents of the Sac — Enterocele—Epiphlocele—Entero-epiphlocele—General Diagnostics and Classification of Herniae : its Symptoms and predisposing and exciting Causes—Mr. Vincent's views on the Action of the Diaphragm —Treatment of Reducible Hernia—Application and Adaptation of Trusses 1140-1151 LECTURE CXI In-educible Hernia—Causes which lead to the Chronic Condition—General Symp- toms and Treatment—Acute Incarceration and Strangulation—Explanation of the Mechanical Causes leading to Constriction—Pathological Changes, and the Symptoms which attend them—Taxis : Principles and Methods to be followed in using it—Cautions regarding it—Dangers of Delay when the Taxis fails, or in waiting for urgent Symptoms to warrant the Operation— Causes of Death in twenty-six Fatal Cases . . . 1152-1163