CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1067 " On section, the mass was found to consist of two kinds of material ; the most abundant, and that which formed the basis and the greater part of the tumour, was of a glistening appearance, a pale bluish-white colour, and was of firm almost cartilaginous consistence. Mixed with this and oc- curring generally in bands, bat sometimes in small patches, was a softer and more friable matter, of a pale opaque yellow colour. A few small masses of a glistening yellow appearance, evidently consisting of fat, were scattered through the mass. " On microscopic examination the firm glistening portion of the tumour was found to consist of a finely fibrillated structure, in which were em- bedded oval, rounded, or elongated nucleated cells, having all the charac- ters of cartilage-cells : these varied in abundance in different parts, being, in some places, as numerous as the cells in true cartilage, in others but sparsely disseminated. The yellowish opaqixe matter consisted of granular material and small cells, apparently in process of disintegration ; they re- sembled tubercle corpuscles or shrivelled pus-cells, but were somewhat larger ; they contained no nucleus, but, in many, one or more granules were seen. The matter, which to the naked eye seemed fatty, was proved to be so on microscopic examination." Bemarks.—The case just detailed seemed to me worthy of notice on account of the great size of the tumour, its important anatomical relations, and the formidable character of the opera- tion required for its removal; but especially as giving encou- ragement for surgical interference in similar cases of deep-seated cervical tumours, and as indicating certain principles, both in regard to the kind of growths suitable for operation, and the points to be attended to in effecting their removal. Operations for the removal of large tumours from the neck are always attended with great danger from the proximity of the numerous important structures in that region, and the impossi- bility of thoroughly commanding the circulation through the great vessels during the operation. Large tumours, arising in the parotid and passing into the cervical region, have been fre- quently removed when placed superficially to the sterno-mastoid muscle. But some surgical authorities regard cases of tumours developed beneath that muscle as unsuitable for removal by operation; and, in point of fact, few if any cases of complete and successful removal of such tumours are recorded ; at least, after some research, I can only find four cases mentioned :—One by Mr. John Bell in his work on Surgery, vol. iii.; two by Pro- fessor "Warren of Boston, in his work on Tumours ; and one in- 4 a