REGIONAL SURGERY. 1102 the child's progress to recovery was rapid. The tube was removed on the fifth day, and it was not again found necessary to return it. 8. 0 , set. 4^ years. After the child had suffered from croup for twenty-four hours, during which time all the ordinary remedies had been unsuccessfully employed, Mr. Spence performed tracheotomy. This was followed by immediate relief, even although the chest did not expand very fully. The child went on improving for the next twenty- four hours, when, on the return of the dyspnoea, the tube was removed and a larger one introduced. This was again followed by great improve- ment, continuing for the next five hours. He then became restless ; a considerable difficulty of inspiration commenced ; expiration remaining so free that he blew out a lighted taper placed before the mouth of the tube. This attack lasted about half-an-hour, when he died. Examination, thirty-six hours after death, showed great emphysema of both lungs, some congestion, but no pneumonia. The croupous membrane was confined to the larynx, but the trachea and bronchi were lined and partially blocked up with very tenacious mucus. The right side of the heart distended with dark blood. Tracheotomy in Diphtheritic Croup. 1. Ann A., cot. 2|, admitted December 4, sufi^ering from diphtheria with severe laryngeal symptoms. She had been ailing about a week, but the dyspnoea only became urgent the day previous to admission. As the paroxysms were frequent, and the breathing greatly impeded, the trachea was opened. Immediately after the operation, the patient fell into a quiet sleep. She went on most favourably ; the tube was removed on the fifth day, and she breathed freely through the wound. On the eighth day the wound became dry and grey ; on the tenth a slough separated. The constitutional symptoms accompanying this attack of sloughing phagedcena were of a very low type. She died on the eleventh day. The local treat- ment consisted of the application of strong nitric acid, with chloride of soda, and very weak Condy's solution. Stimulants and nourishing food were given, both by the mouth and rectum. 2. John C, £Et. 3 ; admitted 5th January, labouring under dijihtheritic croup, accompanied with extreme dyspnoea. Tracheotomy. Dismissed 30th January. Cured. 3. Alex. F., set. 3 ; admitted June 1st, suffering from extreme dyspnoea. Diphtheria. Tracheotomy. After the oi)eration, he had repeated attacks of convulsions, with squinting. Dismissed 30th June. Cured. 4. J. B., sot. 4J ; admitted 12th June, with great dyspnoea. The whole of the fauces covered with false membrane bled when touched. Tracheotomy. This patient went on most favourably until the 20th. Symptoms of paralysis of the pharynx and glottis occurred. She was fed by the stomach-pump twice daily, and by enemata. The prostration, however, increased, and she died on the 2Cth June. Remarks.—In A. F., the false membrane formed below the