HyEMA TOCELE. ^ 13G1 geon then plunges the trocar perpendicularly (a) through the scrotal coverings, at the most prominent part, till he feels it enter the sac, then he changes its direction, and makes it pass obliquely upwards, to avoid injuring the testicle {b, Figs. 45 and 46). When the sac is fairly emptied of fluid, the iodine is injected, and the syringe and canula withdrawn at the same time. The patient should then be placed in bed, with the scrotum supported. Should the inflammatory swelling be slow of disappearing, stimulant evaporating lotions should be applied to hasten its discussion. HEMATOCELE, as the name implies, is a collection of blood or bloody fluid. It may arise from an injury rupturing or penetrating the tunica vaginalis, and blood distending its cavity; but true haematocele in the scrotum generally results from slow changes taking place in a hydrocele. The tunica vaginalis becomes re- markably altered in structure, greatly thickened, and of fibrous or even fibro-cartilaginous consistence, and occasionally loaded with earthy deposit, or ossified, as it is termed. The interior surface is also altered, congested, and flocculent; and, in general, a mass of fibrine or decoloixrised clot is found at the lower part of the cavity. The fluid contents, in case of true chronic haema- tocele, are usually of a dark-brown colour like porter, and, as in the case of hydrocele, cholestrine is usually found in the fluid. The diagnosis of hsematocele is not so easy as that of hydrocele, for in hsematocele we have no translucency, whilst the weight and the doughy, or even hard feeling, communicated by the coagulum which forms part of its contents, render more difficult the distinc- tion between it and tumours of the testicle. We must trust, therefore, more to the history of the case and the general aspect of the patient than to the local conditions by themselves, to guide us aright. Fortunately, the treatment which requires to be adopted in heematocele enables us to make sure of the true nature of the disease ; and, should the swelling prove to be a tumour of a more serious character, we can then proceed to re- move it at once. The Treatment of hsematocele consists in making a free inci-