REGIONAL SURGERY. 1108 from over the external third of the clavicle, backwards along the spine of the scapula, to beyond its base or posterior margin. From over the acromio-clavicular articulation another incision should be carried downwards to beyond the inferior angle of the scapula, or beyond the lowest part of the tumour. Then the flaps so marked out are dissected back, the clavicle divided internal to the coraco-clavicular ligament, the scapular attachments of the deltoid and trapezius divided, and the humerus disarticulated. The great vessels being now commanded, the remaining muscular attachments of the scapula to the trunk are divided, and the operation completed. After all bleeding is arrested, the in- cisions are united by silver sutures, and the elbow supported by a handkerchief, a flat pad placed in the axilla, and the arm bandaged to the side. There is, perhaps, no organ more frequently the subject of surgical treatment than the female breast. As the result of lacta- tion, or other causes of irritation, Acute and Chronic Mammary Abscesses arise in or beneath the breast, and require to be opened early and freely to prevent the formation of troublesome sinuses. The incisions made to evacuate the pus in such cases, should be free ; nothing can be more cruel than to make a small puncture or inadequate opening, squeezing out the pus, and then requiring to enlarge the opening, or make other incisions to give free vent to the matter. When the abscess is near the nipple, the incision should be made obliquely and parallel to the nipple ducts, so as to avoid cutting any of them across. In some instances the purulent collection is situated under the gland, in such cases the collection should be compressed so as to make it project towards the lower border of the breast, if possible, and an incision made into it along the lower margin of the gland ; by this means the matter gets easier exit, and the mamma is not interfered with. The mammary gland is also liable to Hypertrophy, and when discutient remedies fail, this may require an operation