1386 REGIONAL SURGERY. different conditions, requiring very different treatment, and therefore I think it right to draw your attention specially to this subject. The one form, true Prolapsus of the Eeotum, con- sists of a projection of the whole thickness of a portion of the gut through the relaxed sphincter. The connections of the lower portion of the rectum prevent the whole thickness of that part being projected, and therefore in true prolapsus the projecting mass is formed by the loosely-connected upper part of the bowel invaginated within the lower or fixed portion ; the relations of the different parts of the bowel being similar to that in intus-susception in the small intestine. This condition is very frequent in young and delicate, or even in otherwise healthy children, but is comparatively rare, though occasionally met with, in adults. The general appearance is the projection of a large ovoid or cylindrical florid mass, the everted mucous surface presenting, and on examination we can see and feel the continuous' canal of the invaginated portion of bowel. Prolapsus usually takes place when the patient is straining, either at stool or during painful micturition, and it is a very common symptom in cases of stone in the bladder. When the gut comes down, it generally soon attracts attention, and in the case of children the nurse or other attend- ant usually manages to reduce it under ordinary circumstances, and in adults the patient manages to do the same for himself by lying down and gently compressing and replacing the gut. In some cases, however, a very large cylindrical portion is protruded, and the reduction being more difficult, the surgeon is sent for. In such circumstances, if attempts have been previously made to reduce the protrusion, you should first apply cold to the parts, and, oiling the surface well, you should apply the pressure chieflj on the lower and central portion of the protrusion, so as gradually to invert and replace that, before you attempt reduc- tion of the whole mass. The old orthodox and popular method of using the rounded end of a tallow candle is not altogether to be rejected, as undignified, as a means of applying pressure on