CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1421 Professor Spence was called in. Examined the case, and confirmed previ- ous observations. Tried to pass a tube and inject water, but results ob- tained similar to those of former attempts. Recommended injections to be again tried, which M'as done, but without effect. March 26</i.—Professor Spence, Professor Sanders, and Dr. Watson consulted over the case. Colotomy in the left lumbar region posteriorly was suggested, but rejected on the ground of the absence of swelling at the splenic flexure, this raising the suspicion of an obstruction being at this point, or in the small intestine. Gastrotomy was determined upon, and performed by Professor Spence, with the assistance of Dr. Watson. Operation.—A clotli having been bound round the abdomen, with an opening in the central line, Mr. Spence made a longitudinal incision through the integuments in the line of the linea alba, beginning about an inch below the umbilicus, and continued downwards for about i\ inches. The textures were carefully divided down to the peritoneum, and, after the bleeding points had been secured, the peritoneum was opened along the line of the incision. On this being done there appeared a coil of convolutions of the small intestines, some of them distended and congested, others quite flaccid. Partly overlaj^jMng and pressing on this mass there appeared an ovarian cyst about the size of a small melon. The convolutions of intestine, on being relieved and drawn up from under the tumour, presented at several points the appearance as of recent adhesions, and one jjortion was dark, thickened, and granular on its peritoneal surface, similar to what we see in some cases of strangulated hernia. The flaccid convolutions were above this part. The ovarian cyst was punctured with a trocar and india-rubber tube, and the fluid drawn off, the pedicle transfixed and tied with double ligatures, and the tumour removed. On its removal, a cystic and partly solid tumour of the left ovary was felt in the pelvis, the solid portion in close relation to the upper part of the rectum, and having connections by old adhesions. It was now thought advisable to extend the incision upwards to ascertain fully the state of the colon, and, on this, being done, it was seen to be con- tracted, but not constricted beyond its splenic curve. The ovarian tumour on the left side was now gently drawn upwards, and its adhesions sepa- rated as carefully as possible, and the pedicle secured and divided. On removing the tumour, it was now found that the lower part of the colon, at its junction with the rectum, had been closely connected to the left ovarian tumour, and that there was a small aperture in its coats at the point where the adhesion had existed. The rectum was firmly tied below this aperture, and the gut divided and its open end brought to the surface. At first little or no fseculent matter came away, until, by uncoiling the small intestine and pressing the cCECum and transverse colon, the fteculent con- tents of the intestines began to pass along the gut. The cavity of the pelvis was then carefully washed out, the viscera replaced, and the wound closed, with the exception of the lower part, at which the divided colon was brought and its edges carefiilly secured to the integuments by continuous suture. A piece of oiled lint was placed around the opening, and the patient placed in a position to favour the escape of the faeculent matter. The woman, who was in a very exhausted state before the operation, rallied somewhat, but ultimafely sank about midnight.