CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1099 The case of the child Margaret Kerr, it will be noticed, stands as it were in opposition to some of the opinions I have expressed as to the performance of tracheotomy for croup in very young children, and in the advanced stage of the disease; for this infant, only 1\ years of age, was almost moribund when I operated. But whilst such a case, to a certain extent, may modify the remarks formerly made, and affords encouragement to attempt relief even in very unfavourable circumstances, and with the further warrant of its being the only chance for life, yet we must not be carried away, by the result of an exceptional case, to expect anything like general success in similar cases ; and when we operate under such circumstances, the grounds on which we proceed should be clearly stated to the friends ; and, from what I have said formerly, the surgeon must expect to meet with cases in which the qhild may die during the operation, or imme- diately on the trachea being opened* Cases of Croup—Second Series. 1. The patient, D. \i , 7^ years of age, came home from school on the afternoon of the 21st January 1858, on account of a constant irritating cough, but he complained of no difficulty of breathing, nor any other iirgent symptom, till about 8 p.m. on the 22d, when the dyspnoja rather suddenly supervened, and increased so rapidly, that a medical man was summoned, and found him so ill that he recommended me to be sent for to perform tracheotomy. When I saw him, about half-past 10, he appeared moribund, breathing only at long intervals, the chest not expanding, the pulse scarcely to be felt. Having explained the probability of the child dying during the operation in such circumstances, the parents still expressed theii- desire that the chance might be afforded him. I accordingly performed the operation, and on inserting the tube some mucus was ejected. By keeping up artificial respiration, administering enemata of port wine, and applying sinapisms to the abdomen, the respi- ration and circulation gradually became restored and regular, but the pupils remained dilated, insensible to light, and the child was quite unconscious. In about two hours after the operation, he became sensible, expressed relief, breathed easily, and had some sleep, and in the morning I was equally surprised and gratified to find him in a state which pro- * These remarks on the foregoing cases of tracheotomy in croup were pub- lished in 1858, and I have reprinted them here to show what my original views were, and that my present opinions, and my advocacy of this operation, are the residts of my previous views having been gradually modified by experience. 4 c