REGIONAL SURGERY. 1326 do what was very generally done in the earlier operations for perineal section—viz., use the finger of the left hand to feel for the groove in the narrow part of the staff, as is done in lithotomy, and then pass the knife over the nail of the left forefinger which is fixed in the groove as a guide—the knife is directed to one side, misses the small groove, and is carried along the side of the staff, thus leading to an imperfect incision, or to uncertainty as to complete division of the stricture. I repeat that this apparently trifling manoeuvre is of the greatest importance as to the ease and certainty with which the stricture will be divided. The edge of the knife should always be carried well forward into the groove in the thick portion of the staff. There is another precaution which I take at this stage, and which I consider should never be neglected. When the stricture is divided, we are told to withdraw the staff and proceed to introduce the catheter. But we must first make quite sure that the whole contraction is divided. The limit of the stricture in front is well marked by the thick slioulder of the staff arrested there, but the posterior limit is not so surely marked, we judge of that chiefly by feeling the groove less thickly covered. Even as regards the anterior part, a few fibres may escape before the pressure of the knife, but we can give perfect certainty to the complete section of the stricture by using a very simple precaution. Instead of with- drawing the staff, I pass my left forefinger into the wound, and with my right hand depress the handle of the staff so as to carry it towards the bladder. If the contraction be fully divided, the thick part of the staff passes on easily beyond the cut in the urethra into the membranous part of the urethra, and its posi- tion is felt by the finger in the wound. If, on the contrary, there be any catch or hindrance, I never attempt to force the staff onwards; but, again using my left hand to steady the staff, I re-introduce the knife on my right forefinger and divide any resisting fibres, whether at the anterior or posterior part of the urethral section, until the staff glides easily onwards. No force to overcome a difficulty should be used. It may be that a small portion of the anterior boundary of the contraction has escaped