1396 REGIONAL SURGERY. at a part beyond the reach of the finger, the altered form and calibre of the faeces will guide us towards a diagnosis, and we will be further assisted by various constitutional symptoms. The additional work required by the bowel in forcing the faeces through the constricted part causes the portion immediately above the stricture to become greatly distended. This leads to general fulness of the abdomen, which becomes at length op- pressive ; it also leads to vomiting, and various other reflex symptoms. The constriction further leads to great irregularity of the bowels. Severe constipation, frequently alternating with equally severe diarrhoea, in which the semiflmd contents, instead of com- ing away regularly, are expelled in violent and sudden gushes. The irregular nodulated and indurated character of the circle of the contraction, and the peculiar sanious and fcetid discharge which accompany the malignant disease of the bowels, taken in conjunction with the history of the case and the con- stitutional cachexy, will serve to distinguish the cancerous form of the disease from the simple stricture. In the simple stricture we proceed by vital dilatation, on the same principle as in stricture of the oesophagus or xirethra, by tlie introduction of graduated bougies, or sponge-tents, using opiate suppositories to allay irritation if excessive. In malignant stricture, though we may require to use instru- ments occasionally in order to keep the gut pervious, still we can only look for palliation from such procedure. Sometimes the operation of opening the descending colon may be had recourse to, in this or in cases of simple stricture situated high up, but even this is only palliative, although better than passing bougies through an irritable cancerous rectum ; but in cancer the disease will prove fatal sooner or later. In the rectum we are liable to meet with a form of stricture which we might diagnose to be malignant, while it is really not so. This is a syphilitic affection, ulceration of the canal leading to its contraction. It is accompanied with great irritation in the part, and the emission of a peculiar sanious and foetid dis-