1336 REGIONAL SURGERY. are used, according to the appearance of the granulating surface. When the swelling is partially diminished by the incisions, we can introduce the grooved stricture-staff through the contracted urethra into the bladder, and use the central incision to reach the groove and divide the stricture, and then pass and retain a full-sized gum catheter in the bladder. The constitutional symptoms are most likely to be relieved, if not prevented, by the active local treatment. But if they have arisen before the patient has been seen by the medical at- tendant, then stimulants to keep up the strength, anodynes to allay the general irritative fever, and subsequently generous diet, form the chief indications. The other form of urinary extravasation which supervenes on neglected abscess in the perineum arises in a different manner from that which I have just described; and, accordingly, its symptoms are different and its progress less rapid, in consequence of the pathological changes which have preceded the extravasa- tion limiting it for a time. Owing to the presence of stricture or some other source of irritation in or near the urethra, deep- seated inflammation is set up in the perineum, and as a result an abscess or collection of pus forms either under the superficial fascia or between the layers of the triangular ligament. This is attended by deep-seated, brawny hardness in the perineum, accompanied by great pain and constitutional disturbance, acute oedema of the scrotum, and, in most instances, painful and diffi- cult micturition and pain and fulness about the anus. If these conditions be neglected, or if the surgeon waits for distinct fluc- tuation, the purulent matter, prevented from making its way to- wards the cutaneous surface, points and opens into the mucous canal of the urethra. In consequence of this ulceration, whilst part of the pus escapes by the urethra, urine passes into the cavity of the abscess, and excites increased action of an un- healthy character, constituting urinary abscess, and attended ■with the peculiar constitutional symptoms of urinary fever. For a time the effused urine and purulent matter are confined by the barrier resulting from the plastic exudation which has