THE HERNIAL SAC. 1143 sometimes mentioned as another example, but not correctly, for in it, that continuation of the general peritoneum forming the tunica vaginalis is the sac of the protrusion. The serous sac projected before a hernia is at first loosely connected to the surrounding textures, and its contents are free and unad- herent. In old hernise, however, the sac is generally more or less adherent by its posterior aspect, and very frequently closely ad- herent to the parts more immediately covering it. In small femoral hernije we often find the fascial coverings, the glands, and the sac, all inseparably blended. Perhaps the most important conditions of the sac are those structural changes which take place in it, and the adventitious connections formed between it and its contents. The portion of peritoneum forming the sac is liable to altera- tion in consequence of long-continued irritation; abnormal nutrition and inflammatory action, resulting in plastic deposit, thickening, and adhesions of the visceral contents to the sac. These adhesions may be either short and close, or long and filamentous, and of course interfere more or less with the functions of the viscera and the reducibility of the hernia. The whole sac may be enormously thickened and altered in appearance and structure, so as to lose all semblance of serous membrane as you may observe in the sac of an old scrotal hernia. Generally the body and fundus of the sac retain their natural appearance, or are but little altered; whilst the neck, or those parts which are subjected to constriction and pressure by the resisting structures of the apertures or canals through which the hernia is protruded, become thickened, con- densed, permanently narrowed, and resistant. It is owing to this alteration in structure that the neck of the sac is so frequently the seat of constriction in hernia. In the same changes we find an explanation of constrictions at different parts of the sac—termed by French writers " sacs aux collets." A protrusion has existed of a small size for some time, probably a truss has been worn, and the neck of the sac has become contracted and thickened; a larger protrusion pushes down before it the old sac