CHRONIC LARYNGITIS. 1041 patient. This was a case in wldcli an aneurism had pressed on the trachea, and had tracheotomy been performed, the patient would almost certainly have died under the operation from loss of blood, owing to the part of the sac projecting into the trachea being injured with the knife or tube. In these cases there is also great venous congestion in the neck, which makes the operation much more difficult. Huskiness of voice and a stridulous laryngeal cough are symptoms common both to such cases of aneurism and to chronic laryngitis. When there is difficulty in distinguishing between the two affections, the laryngoscope again proves most valuable, as with its aid there is observed in the one case swelling or ulceration in the interior of the larynx, and in the other nothing but paralysis or spasm of one of the vocal cords-. A few observations regarding the use of the laryngoscope may not be out of place in concluding this account of the injuries and diseases of the larynx. In principle the instrument is very simple. It consists essentially of a small mirror fixed upon a stalk, so as to be capable of introduction into the back of the throat. Holding it there in such a manner as to deflect the light at the proper angle, the surgeon is enabled to obtain a good image of all the parts within the larynx. The mirrors now employed are flat, and usually circular, varying from the size of a sixpence to that of a florin, and they have the ordinary glass and quicksilver face with a metallic back. Each is fixed by its edge, at an angle of about forty-five degrees, to a stalk of soft metal, which is furnished at the other end with a wooden handle. When the operator can employ the direct rays of the sun, nothing more than this single mirror is necessary to obtain a good image of the larynx. But as we cannot always have the sun's direct rays at our disposal, it is necessary that we should possess some additional means by which we may concentrate the light of a lamp or of a window, so as always to have a powerful illumination at our command. The instrument, as practically used, therefore, now consists of two parts : first, of a series of the small tliroat mirrors, varying