1294 REGIONAL SURGERY. the point enter the bladder. After once relieving this organ, we must try to avoid using the catheter again, as every introduction of it excites fresh irritation. We should employ an opiate sup- pository and give acetate of potash, or aerated potash water, or camphor mixture, and apply warm fomentations or poultices above the pubes. When there is much engorgement we may apply leeches to the verge of the anus, to relieve the fulness of the prostatic veins, as this is attended with marked benefit in relieving the local irritation. The regimen should be strictly antiphlogistic. True Oeganic Stricture of the urethra is one of the most important of surgical diseases, and one Which, perhaps, more than any othel", reiq[uires skill, experience, and tact in regard to dia- gnosis and treatment. This morbid condition may be defined as a diminution of the calibre of a portion of the canal of the urethra, due to the deposition and organisation of inflamma- tory products, either into the textures surrounding the mucous canal or on its free surface, leading to permanent and even pro- gressive contraction, attended with more or less obstruction to the passage of urine. To give distinctness to our views as to the usual sites of organic stricture and other important points in relation to its diagnosis and treatment, I must advert very briefly to the ana- tomical divisions of the urethral canal. If we trace this canal as it emerges from the bladder, we find it passing through the substance of the prostate gland, from above, downwards and forwards. This part of the urethra is wide, and closely connected with the substance of the prostate ; its floor presents foramina in which are openings of the prostatic ducts, and in the centre we have a raised line, terminating anteriorly in the verumontanum, in which the common ejaculatory ducts of the vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia open ; so that the mucous membrane is pretty firmly attached to the adjacent prostate. This prostatic portion of the canal is about 1 inch and 2 lines in length. The mem- branous portion of the urethra is the shortest portion of the