REGIONAL SURGERY. 1404 sac, and towards the lower part of the scrotum, and the peculiar appearance of the lower part of the sac, as seen during the operation; 2d, Some symptoms and features of the case, which, taken in conjunction with the patient's previous history, may serve as guides in the diagnosis of similar cases, and may also lead us to modify our operative procedure in such cases. With regard to the position of the constriction, it may be said, that, though rare, it has been noticed by several writers on hernia. Scarpa gives a plate of a hernia, with constriction of the sac in the scrotum, and points out the double swelling as marking the nature of the case. Lawrence mentions the case of a young man on whom he operated, in whom there was a very tight stricture midway between the testis and external ring, and where he had great difficulty in distinguishing the true nature of the lower swelling, the upper part of the sac having been opened first. Pott, Wris- berg, and Pelletau, all mention having met with similar cases ; but these differ from that which I have just detailed, inasmuch as they were all cases of congenital hernia, and the constriction in the middle of the sac was caused by the contraction marking the natural division of the tunica vagi- nalis from the general peritoneal sac. I consider this an important difl'er- ence in a practical point of view, because in these cases, although the sac would be constricted in an unusual position, and therefore render the nature of the case sufficiently puzzling, still the lower part would be of the same appearance as the upper portion, they would both present the usual ap- pearance of serous membrane, and thus the continuity of the upper and lower portions would be more readily recognised. Whereas, in the case I have described, the causes which had given rise to the constriction in the sac had also effected alteration of structure in that part of it below the stricture, and thus gave rise to greater embarrassment in the operation. What these causes were, and how they had acted in producing these effects, are, I think, obvious from the history of the case. The man, when first affected with a small inguinal hernia, had worn a truss, and continued its use for many years. The effect which this would have by its continued pressure in causing constriction of the neck of the small sac, where it lay opposite the external ring, and also in condensing and altering the struc- ture of its whole surface generally, will, I think, be readily admitted. After a time, the use of the truss was discontinued, and the result was, that a larger hernial protrusion took place, not entering into the original sac, owing to the narrowness of its opening at the contracted neck, but carrying along with it a fresh portion of peritoneum, and pushing the small sac down before it into the scrotum. So long as matters remained in this state, the patient could always reduce it himself ; but on this one unfortunate occasion, a part of the bowel had passed through the contracted part into the lower division of the sac (or into what was the sac of the original small hernia). This was the state of parts when the operation was performed. The upper part of the sac was opened, and part of the intestines returned, when a small tumour was brought into view closely connected with the scrotum ; and now came the embarrassment, for there was no appearance of continuity between this and the superior part of the sac, owing to the tightness of the contraction ; it was also totally different in appearance, and to the touch. Here, I think, it will be allowed that this was much more embarrassing than the cases of congenital hernia, where the lower part, or