SOURCES OF HEMORRHAGE. 1249 througli what at first seems a very limited opening. I need hardly remind you, that in old people the prostate alters both in size and structure, and, although its increased bulk enables us to make a larger incision in the gland, its altered indurated stnic- ture does not yield as in the healthy gland, and requires to be freely divided with the Imife, to enable us to extract the stone. In such cases I can only compare the sensation to that of cutting through a thick mass of India-rubber. You feel at once that attempts to dilate or split up would be useless. The general position of the blood-vessels of the perineum also requires your attention in reference to the different methods of performing lithotomy. The internal pudic artery, after re-entering the pelvis between the greater and less sciatic ligaments, courses along the deep surface of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium and ramus of the pubis, and passes obliquely forwards and inwards in the perineum, to which region it gives off several branches, some of which it is of importance to avoid in lithotomy. At first the pudic artery is bound down to the surface of the obturator internus muscle by the obturator fascia, and when the fat is cleared from the ischio-rectal fossa, the vessel, if well in- jected, can be felt through the fascial covering, lying about three- fourths of an inch above the internal margin of the tuberosity, and protected by the bone. At this part of its course it could scarcely be wounded in lithotomy unless the edge of the knife were not only lateralised but turned towards the internal surface of the tuberosity. As the pudic passes forwards in the peri- neum, it gradually leaves the protection of the ramus of the ischium, so that anteriorly, after it gives off the artery of the bulb, it actually lies between the layers of the triangular liga- ment, and is here in danger of being wounded if the knife be withdrawn transversely, or too much outwards, after division of the prostate. The pudic artery, as it passes forwards, gives off branches to the perineum. Where it lies in relation to the tuber ischii it sends off the inferior ha^morrhoidal artery, which divides into two or three small vessels which traverse the ischio-rectal fossa,