OPERATION FOR VENTRAL HERNIA. 1209 superficial fascia we can draw down the tumour, and the con- striction becomes apparent. In performing the extra-peritoneal operation in ventral herniee, we divide the textures very care- fully till the constriction ceases to exist, cutting directly up- wards. In most cases, however, it is better to open the sac by a smaU opening, and introducing the finger, feel till we come to the point of constriction, then introduce a director, and divide the constriction upwards for about a quarter of an inch. We must be careful that the bistoury has the probe on the end, and not on the back, for the stomach and colon are sometimes displaced and distended in umbilical herniae, so that they might be injured by the point of the knife. Another thing to be attended to is, that when we require to divide the constriction freely in a very large hernia, instead of dividing further up in the mesial line, we may either draw up the hernia and repeat the incision below, or we may divide the constriction at the sides to a certain extent. It is a complete circrdar constriction, and we may relieve it in this way by division of different parts of the circle. The hernia is then left with the skin and sac upon it, and we can gradually reduce it bit by bit. Sometimes, in old umbilical hernise, the convolutions of the bowel are contained in hollows in the cellular tissue, so that we require some little time to reduce the hernia. In other cases the bowel is adherent; but if the constriction be divided that is the main point. As regards a large incision, I can only say that I have seen it once, and I would never wish to see it again, for the whole convolutions of the bowel were spread over the abdomen, and it was very difficult to get at the constriction. A moderate incision is quite sufficient, owing to the comparatively superficial position of the protrusion, which is just under the skin and superficial fascia. In some cases where, in operating, we find a large mass of omentum altered in form or adherent, it may be necessary to enlarge our incision, to enable us to see the state of the omentum, and judge whether we should return it by mani- pxilation, or remove it after ligature of the vessels at its root. In such circumstances, however, we ought first to reduce all the