1338 REGIONAL SURGERY. cases the whole perineum and posterior part of the scrotum pre- sent fistulous openings converging at the main track, and all the surrounding textures are thickened and consolidated owing to plastic exudation. In such cases, the first and most important indication for treatment is to restore the natural passage by curing the stricture. When that is done, nature in many in- stances accomplishes the rest of the cure, the urine flows by the natural canal, and the sinuses gradually contract and heal. In some cases, however, where great induration and many tortuous sinuses have existed for a long time, we may require to lay them open to some extent, and use a stimulant application, or the actual or potential cautery, to destroy the lining membranes and callous tracks of the fistulpe. This is best effected by means of the heated wire, or a probe coated with nitrate of silver, or by injecting a solution of nitrate of silver along the track, and when there is much consolidation and brawny hardness of the peri- neum the application of a blister is of great service in promoting absorption of the plastic exudation, and stimulating the parts to a healthy action. We must, however, remember that fistula in perineo may depend on other causes than stricture, or be kept up by a state of parts which renders it much less amenable to treatment, or even incurable. In cases where abscess forms from any cause in Cowper's gland, even although it is opened early there is often a tendency to the formation of a troublesome urinary fis- tula. The short duct of the gland opening into the sinus of the bulb is involved in the diseased condition, and hence the ulcer- ation opens into the urethra, and urine dribbles through the abscess and, though there be no obstruction in front, keeps the external aperture from contracting, and this condition is very troublesome and tedious of cure. The best plan is to lay open the fistula and cavity of the abscess, and touch the interior with strong tincture of iodine or nitrate of silver, and let the wound granulate from the bottom, and after a time apply the heated wire to complete the cure. Some recommend that a gum catheter should be retained, or that the patient should be