REGIONAL SURGERY. 1064 mitting to any operation. I wrote, in reply to Dr. Phipps, that though I could not decide without personally examining the patient, I was inclined, from the history he gave of the growth, and his accovmt of its general re- lations, to think it might be removed, and that I would arrange for her reception under my care if she came to Edinburgh, as contemplated. She was admitted into my wards in the Royal Infirmary, on the 11th Novem- ber 1862. Appearances on Admission.—The patient is a somewhat pale, but not cachectic-looking woman. There is an enormous tumour, as large as her head, projecting from the right side of her neck. Its boundaries are the following :—Beginning about one inch from the second cervical vertebra, it passes downwards to within an inch and a half of the clavicle ; then sweeps obliquely to the middle line of the neck, which it reaches near the cricoid cartilage. It then passes upwards by the side of the chin, close by the angle of the mouth—which is not distorted ; and round by the outer angle of the orbit, and through the lower part of the temporal region, and thence to the spinal column, on a level with the meatus auditorius exter- nus and apex of the mastoid process. The lobule of the ear is very con- siderably stretched. The surface of the tumour is irregular, presenting a lobulated ajjpearance ; the most prominent part is that M^hich projects forwards from tlie face, and where there is a feeling of fluctuation ; the rest of it is solid. The veins over the siirface are not markedly distended. The anterior portion of the tumour is more movable than the posterior. There is no glandular enlargement, either in the subclavian space or on the left side of the neck. Respiration and deglutition are not in the least interfered with, November 18th.—Since the 16th instant she has been very sick, with occasional vomiting ; but to-day she feels much better. The sickness is a^jiiost entirely gone, but the fauces are inflamed. Pulse 92. November 2\st.— The throat is still inflamed ; otherwise she feels better. Operation.—On the 3d of December, Mrs. Jepson having quite re- covered from the feverish attack from which she suffered after her admis- sion into the hospital, I proceeded to remove the tumour. The patient having been placed recumbent, and brought under the influence of chloro- form—her head and shoulders sujiported with pillows, and her face turned towards the left side, I commenced the operation by making two slightly curved incisions, extending from the lobe of the ear to the sternal attach- ment of the sterno-mastoid muscle, so as to mark out an elliptical portion of skin, about three and a half inches broad at its widest part, over the middle and prominent part of the tumour—the anterior incision corresj)onding nearly to the internal edge of the mastoid muscle. I next made an incision backwards and slightly downwards from the middle of the posterior longitiidinal incision, so as to extend beyond the posterior limit of the tumour ; and lastly, an incision from a point external to the angle of the mouth, was carried obliquely downwards and outwards, so as to fall upon the centre of the anterior longitudinal incision. The four large flaps of skin and platysma niyoides thus marked out were then dis- sected and reflected ofl" tlie tumour, commencing with the posterior—the external jugular vein being tied with two ligatures, and divided between