DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. 989 SO that we cannot do this, then we are recommended to insert some substance—say a wedge-shaped piece of cork or of gutta- percha, or Nasmyth's apparatus—on each side between the jaws, to keep the lower jaw from twisting. This, however, is not often necessary. Tlie only case in which such an apparatus should be inserted, is when the patient has a perfect set of teeth, without any having been displaced. If we do not use it under these circumstances, the patient cannot be easily fed. In most cases, however, all that is required in the way of treat- ment, is to keep the teeth of the upper and lower jaws fixed against each other; and this is done by applying the four-tailed split cloth or bandage round the jaw and head, as represented in Plate xvi. Fig. 9. Formerly pasteboard splints were put on the jaw, but these are really of very little nse. Dislocations of the Lower Jaw are of two kinds—the com- plete or bilateral, and the incomplete or unilateral. The uni- lateral dislocation is attended with greater deformity than the other, owing to the open and distorted appearance of the mouth, and the twisting of the features occasioned by it. In bilateral dislocation there is less distortion, and the opening of the mouth might even be overlooked. The dislocation is generally occa- sioned by some sudden exertion of the patient, as in yawning or laughing immoderately. Under these circumstances the coronoid process slips forward and gets fixed, whilst the condyles glide from the glenoid cavity in front of the root of the zygomatic process. There is a hollow felt at the articulation, and the line of the teeth does not correspond with that of those in the upper jaw. These conditions, together with the inability of the patient to speak, show the nature of the injury. The method of reducing the dislocation, whether unilateral or bilateral, is very much the same. Our object is to bring down the coronoid process and condyles from where they are fixed, to allow the temporal muscle to act on the displaced bone, and this is done by raising the chin while we depress the angle of the jaw. The thumbs are placed on the last molar