MORBID CONDITIONS IN STRICTURE. 1303 fibres projecting the mticous coat and giving rise to the irregular appearance of its internal surface, termed the Fasciculated Bladder, a condition also met with in other morbid states, such as prostatic disease and chronic irritable bladder. This thicken- ing or development of its muscular coat, if accompanied, as it generally is, by chronic irritation of the mucous membrane, leads to contraction of the cavity of the organ, so that its capacity for containing fluid is diminished. When the contrac- tion of the urethra is very tight, and the bladder not so irritable, we sometimes find that the capacity of the organ is greatly increased, whRst at the same time the muscular coat is much developed. In other cases the increased capacity for retaining urine takes another form. Pouch-like portions of the mucous mem- brane are protruded between the fasciculi of the muscular coat, forming cysts, some of which are occasionally found even of greater capacity than the bladder. In most cases of bad stricture the ureters and kidneys are to some extent affected. In nearly all cases the ureters are some- what dUated ; but in certain instances the dilatation of the ureters is enormous, and in such cases the pelvis of the kidney and the infundibula are also distended, and the secreting portion of the gland compressed, so that the kidney presents the appearance of a cyst. This state, though in a less degree than just described, is by no means uncommon in old stricture cases, though the urine secreted during life may have given little or no indication of or- ganic change. Various other morbid conditions of the kidney are found in cases of stricture more or less directly connected with it,—granular disease, pyelitis, multiple abscesses in the cortical substance, and in some very bad old strictures, I have found both kidneys much enlarged, softened, and broken up into granular and filamentous matter, as if they had been decomposed by maceration. The irritation produced in contiguous textures by the presence of stricture not unfrequently leads to the formation of abscesges in the perineum, which, unless opened early, are liable to ulcerate