CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1425 natural in appearance, and it flowed off through the catheter in a full even stream. Then, as regards the subjective symptoms, the sense of distension felt by the patient was unequivocal ; not the mere sensation arising from irritation, wlaicli frequently does occur in cases where the wounded bladder contains little or no water, but a sensation arising and increasing as the urine accumulated, and relieved when it was evacuated by the catheter. I consider this symjitom as of importance ; for we know that when the urethra gives way, and extravasation occurs in a case of retention from stricture, the patient feels immediate relief from the sense of distension, and often thinlcs he is passing water naturally ; and we would expect the same to be the case if the fluid Iiad escaped from the bladder into tlie abdomen. On the other supposition, that tlie urine had been diffused into the peritoneal cavity, how can we reconcile tliis with the symptoms observed ? In cases where the urine has become diffused into tlie cavity of the abdo- men—as in two cases mentioned by Dr. Innes, C.B., when this case was read to the Society—only a very small quantity of urine can be drawn off by the catheter. Nor, supposing the catheter to pass through the wound of the bladder, and reach the fluid, woidd it be likely to flow oft' in a conti- nuous even stream, diffused as it must necessarily be amongst the viscera ; and as a considerable quantity must gravitate towards the pelvic cul de sac of the peritoneum, that could not have been drawn off, and would have been found there on the ^wst-mortem examination. I believe the best explanation of the case is, that the rupture being longitudinal, the contraction of the fibres of the muscular coat of the bladder, from their arrangement, would render it a mere fissiire during life ; and the projection of the looser mucous lining might have a valvular action, preventing the urine flowing out by the wound, except very slowly and in small quantities, and only after a considerable distension had occurred. In conclusion, I would advert to the bearings which this case has on the treatment of such injuries. Whilst, for my own part, I expect but little benefit from any treatment, inasmuch as I consider that the urine extravasated at first into the abdomen is in itself sufficient to induce the fatal effects, still, the length of time and the temporary amelioration of symptoms which occurred in this, and which have been noticed in similar cases, afl'ord some glimmerings of hope as to more favourable results, could we but procure such a continuous drain of the urine from the bladder as to prevent it accumulating, and so obviate any further escape into the abdo- men, and permit the wound in the bladder to heal. To introduce and secure an ordinary catheter in the bladder would be dangerous, as its point would be ajst to pass through the ruptured part; but I think a very short pointed catheter, similar to what is used in cases of vesico-vaginal fistula, and with the part corresponding to the anterior portion of the urethra, bent so as to droop, might answer the purpose ; or the operation of puncturing the bladder from the rectum, and leaving the canula or gum elastic tube for some days, would afford a still surer and more efficient drain. The objection to the latter operation, however, would be, that there is generally no absolute certainty as to the nature of the injury; and we would naturally hesitate to perform an operation which might possibly be unnecessary.