MESIAL AND RECTO-VESICAL OPERATIONS. 1267 respects this operation might seem the simplest, and as most completely avoiding the risks of infiltration and hsemorrhage. The incision of the prostate cannot implicate the reflexion of the pelvic fascia. There are no vessels in the central line of the perineum to cause bleeding, the only risk being wound of the bulb if not properly guarded, and besides, the opening towards the neck of the bladder is direct and shallow. But then the space for extraction is very small. The fascial and muscular textures closing the outlet being, as it were, merely separated in the mesial line, not divided, oppose resistance to the free use of the forceps, and the easy extraction of stone, so that even on the dead body the extraction of a stone of very moderate dimen- sions is attended with the sensation of drawing a tight cork from a bottle. Mr. AUarton, who some years ago tried to revive this method of operating, considered that, by merely notching the apex of the prostate, the prostatic portion of the urethra and neck of the bladder could be dilated without further cutting; but from repeated trials on the dead bodies of adults 1 found that no stone could be extracted in that way, except of such a size that it could have been easily removed by lithotrity. I consider the mesial operation, though apparently simple, to be really more dangerous, and less suited for extraction of a mode- rately-sized stone, than the lateral method. The other form of mesial operation—the Eecto-Vesical—is one which has been practised principally in Italy and by some surgeons in this country, apparently with success as regards safety to life: but it is so obviously liable to the risk of being followed by recto-vesical fistula, that it is not likely to be adopted, except in special cases, to enable us to extract a large calculus through the widest part of the outlet of the pelvis, or where, as happened in one of Mr. Liston's portion of a large stone is sacculated and fixed between the bladder and the rectum. The steps of the operation are very simple. The staff having been introduced, and the other preliminaries attended to,- the surgeon begins his incision as in the mesial operation, only carrying it back to the verge of the anus. He next dissects