CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 1407 been reduced, and from its large size, it could not have been reduced " en bloc." On tbe other hand, though there had been some remission of vomiting, still there was not that relief which follows complete reduction by taxis. There were the quick pulse, hiccup, clammy sweats, abdominal tenderness, tympanitis, and occasional vomiting on taking liquids ; and the mere remission of the vomiting is by no means uncommon in cases of strangulated hernia. The most deceptive symptom to my view was the charac- ter of the stool; it was scanty but liquid and bilious-looking, as if from the upper part of the intestinal canal; and this, in conjunc- tion with the statement that several distending enemata had been given, which came away without any fseculent matter, whilst the thin stool had been passed after the patient had taken some medicine by the mouth, I confess somewhat staggered my decision at first, but after several careful examinations of the dilated inguinal canal by my finger introduced along the cord, I was sure I felt a small swelling very deep, and too tense to be merely a part of the sac, and therefore, after explaining the necessity of giving the patient a chance of relief, I operated, and as it proved, the state of matters justified my decision. In a younger person, there would have been less room for hesitation, because in such a case the mere incision, even supposing no hernia had been found, would not have been dangerous. Besides the difficulties of diagnosis, there is another point of interest in Mr. C 's case, the peculiar cause of strangulation of the small knuckle of bowel. When the great mass of the hernial contents was reduced by taxis, what prevented the return of this small portion? Before operating, I thought it might depend on a double constriction in the sac, similar to that in the preceding case of P B . But on opening the sac, the true cause was explained by the presence of a band of lymph constricting the loop of bowel—in fact, an internal strangulation within the hernial sac, keeping the constricted portion distended, leading to its further strangulation by the neck of the sac at the deep ring, and so preventing reduction. The occurrence of such cases has sometimes been argued against the extra-peritoneal