REGIONAL SURGERY. 10G2 structure into which massetic and interiial pterygoid muscles were attached. Malignant Tumouk of Right Superior Maxilla. Susan "W.,set. 41, unmarried. Admitted to Ward XIX. March 8tli, 1865. Patient caught cokl last Christmas, and first noticed a swelling of the cheek a few days later. She rubbed the cheek with some liniment, but the tumour continued steadily to increase. Accordingly, three weeks ago, she consulted a medical man in Glasgow, who incised the swelling, and removed a portion of it. It then disappeared, but quickly attained its former size. She had been perfectly healthy, but since the appearance of the tumour she has lost both strength and appetite. On examination, a tumour of the size of an orange, of firm consistence, is found to occupy the right superior maxilla. It involves the whole of that bone, and extends across the hard palate. The right nostril is almost completely occluded. The superficial veins are dilated over the tumour ; the skin and soft tissues of the cheek everywhere firmly adherent to the tumour. Patient suff'ers great pain. The neighbouring glands are not affected. The lungs and heart are foimd to be healthy. March lltli.—Had smart hcemorrhage from the right nostril this mornmg. 13</t.—Considerable diarrhoea during the night. P. 100, weak. No recurrence of hsemorrhage. 14^A.—Slept well after an opiate. P. 100, weak. \hth.—To-day Professor Spence removed the tumour. He made a horizontal incision from the angle of the mouth. Then he made an incision from the inner canthiTS, joining the first. A third incision was made from the inner angle of the eye to the corner of the mouth, so as to remove all the soft parts implicated in the disease. The flap was dissected off, and the bone sawn through at the outer and inner angles of the orbit. The soft tissues of the mouth were divided on the hard palate, beyond the seat of disease. Tlie alveolar process was then sawn through, and the other connections of the bone divided with cutting-pliers. Part of the septum nasi and the palatal process of the left upper maxilla were removed. A few vessels in the cheek required ligature. The gap left by the removal of the tumour and textures of the cheek was carried from the angle of the mouth downwards and outwards for about three inches below the lower jaw, and curved backwards in tlie neck, so as to shape a somewhat triangular flap, which was dissected, and brought up to form a new cheek. The soft tissues were brought togetlier with sutures, except a small portion below the lower jaw, which part was left to granulate. P. 140 after the operation. A full opiate was given, and an enema of beef-tea and brandy. To have wine and water at intervals. Vesj).—P. 96, strong. Has slept well. No pain and no oozing. 16<A.—P. 100, good strength. Slept well without an oj)iate. Slight redness about the edges of tlie wound. To have no stimulants. To have beef-tea, arrowroot, etc.