HERNIA REDUCED EN BLOC BY TAXIS. 1177 In these cases the neck of the upper sac is wide enough to per- mit reduction of the mass of the hernia ; but a small portion of gut has got into the old small sac, and become strangulated; and this has been returned m Hoc. Such has been the condition I have found in the cases I have had to deal with, accounts of some of which will be found amongst the Clinical Cases. In such cases there should be no hesitation as to the line of practice ; the continuance of the symptoms are our warrant for operating. Though perhaps fairly reduced within the upper ring, the hernia cannot be far removed from the opening ; and by freely opening up the textures in the line of the canal through which it pro- truded, the surgeon is sure to find the strangulated mass, and can easily relieve it. The sketch, Fig. 1, Plate li., was taken from the case of a patient who was sent to my care from the country. Three days previous to his admission into hospital a large scrotal hernia had come down, and he was unable to return it as he usually did. Symptoms supervened, and he sent for a surgeon, who, with some difficulty, reduced it; as, however, the symptoms increased, he sent again on the second day for the surgeon; nothing like a swelling could be felt, but suspecting the real state of matters, he sent the patient to me. On the most careful examination, I could detect no swelling, though from the dilated condition of the inguinal canal I could easily pass my finger v\p throughout its whole extent ; but I noticed, when he coughed, there was not the slightest tendency to de- scent of the rupture, and there was an indistinct feeling of some firm substance impelled against the finger. The man was evi- dently in a very dangerous state, almost in collapse, with con- stant hiccough and occasional vomiting. I laid the inguinal canal freely open, and divided the margins of the external oblique and transversalis muscles, to give me a full view of the parts. On doing this, and introducing my finger upwards, I felt a hard mass about the size of a small walnut, which was easily brought down into the wound, and proved to be a small sub- division of the hernial sac. This contained nearly four inches, of