1138 REGIONAL SURGERY. rounded swelling is felt at the femoral ring. The swelling is projected more distinctly when the patient coughs, and it com- municates a feeling of impulse to the finger. There is no acute paui; merely uneasiness. When the patient is placed recum- bent, the swelling returns into the abdomen, and if the finger be placed over or pressed upwards into the femoral ring, and the patient desired to rise up, the swelling is retained ; but when the pressure of the finger is removed, it again reappears. Now, these symptoms are very similar to those of femoral hernia, but there is usually something in the appearance of the patient, or in the history of the case, that leads us, if we be on our guard, to arrive at a right conclusion. Amongst other diagnostics, I would direct your attention to the fact that in such cases, al- though we can reduce the swelling readily enough, and can retain it, as already stated, by pressure for a time, yet gradually it descends ; or if a truss has been used, the swelling makes its way from under the pressure, however accurately the truss may fit. In such cases the ordinary treatment of chronic abscess must be had recourse to. The terms Lumbar and Psoas Abscess are used to denote subacute or chronic purulent collections arising in the sub- stance of the psoas muscle or the cellular texture around it, and are very generally connected with caries of the vertebrse. Some- times the collection of matter is somewhat circumscribed, and projects or points in the lumbar region at the anterior free margin of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and then it is termed a lumbar abscess. More frequently, however, the pus burrows down along the psoas muscle into the iliac region, passing below the fascia iliaca, and points at the upper and inner part of the thigh under the iliac portion of the fascia lata, having followed the course of the psoas tendon to its insertion, and in such cir- cumstances it is termed a psoas abscess. In treating this form of abscess, whether we open it in the lumbar or crural region, we must bear in mind that it generally arises in connection with