1222 REGIONAL SURGERY. to the irritation of the bladder, the tendency to the deposition of phosphates had perhaps already begun, and this would be in- creased by the action of the lime water. The deposition of the phosphates would round off the rough surface of the calculus, and make it smooth, and its presence comparatively or altogether painless. This shows that we should not be sure of a stone having disappeared under the action of internal remedies, for the improvement in the symptoms is in general due to such causes, and only temporary. The symptoms of stone are very analogous to those of an irritable bladder. There is pain in making water, with a fre- quent desire to micturate. The stream sometimes stops suddenly from spasm produced by the presence of the stone, or from the calculus falling over the orifice of the bladder, and after a pause begins to flow again, either spontaneously or when the patient alters his position. Occasionally the patient suffers intense pain while making water in the ordinary position, which passes off on changing his posture. The stone in the first instance has been resting on the most sensitive part of the bladder—viz. between the orifice of the ureters and the base of the prostate, and the relief is caused by the stone falling from off this sensitive part when the patient changes his posture, the water then passing more readily and with much less pain. There is pain after making water, generally intense suffering if the stone be rough and irregular, owing to the bladder contracting on the stone. In most cases the patient strains very much in passing water, and a little mucus and blood are expelled with the last drops of urine. In young patients the prepuce is generally very much elongated. This arises from the irritation produced by the stone—the pain is referred to the glans penis or orifice, and the patient grasps the glans, dragging the prepuce forwards while making water, so as to benumb the pain, and this causes the great elongation of the prepuce. In the adult, also, the glans penis is very often compressed and irritable, from the patient pressing on it to relieve the pain while making water. These are the general symptoms of stone, but they may be