REGIONAL SURGERY. 1022 other cases it confines itself almost exclusively to the larynx. It may be loosely attached, or it may tend to become loose at certain points. The formation of this layer marks the occurrence of the second stage in croup. In the second stage of croup, therefore, when the 'false membrane has begun to form, we have frequently another physical symptom present—namely, a valvular sound heard immediately after expiration. This is caused by a loosened edge of the false membrane being raised by the air in expiration, and flapping down again upon the lining membrane after the air has passed out. When the tube of false membrane forms a complete cast, or when it is adherent throughout its extent, this symptom is of course wanting. From the circumstance that in croup the false membrane extends more or less into the trachea, the term Cynanclie tracliealis has been applied to the disease, but, as I will explain presently, I think this an unfortunate name, as it is apt to mislead in certain respects. In both croup and laryngitis there is a tendency to cerebral congestion and coma, owing to the imperfect aeration of the blood. In the Laryngitis of adults the diseased action is generally limited to the larynx; and, though it is sometimes attended with double bronchitis, it does not tend to produce a false membi'ane. In some cases, however, small abscesses form in the submucous cellular tissue, or small patches of lymph are effused. The in- flammatory action rarely passes into the trachea. In the early stages, both of croup and laryngitis, the stridu- lous breathing, and the suffocating paroxysms of cough, are chiefly dependent on irritation of the mucous membrane, exciting the muscles to spasmodic action, so that, combined with the swelling of the mucoiis membrane—even before that swelling gives rise to any obstruction to the respiration—there may be obstructed respiration from spasm of the glottis, and this of itself may necessitate an operation, for the paroxysms are often so violent as to threaten suffocation. Tliis may arise long before