SECTION OF THE STRICTURE. 1321 ■we feel the contraction yield. Lastly, the instrument is with- drawn, and a No. 10 or No. 11 catheter passed into the bladder, and the urine drawn off. The patient is then desired not to make water himself, but to have his water drawn off with tlie catheter every six hours, for the first twenty-four. I have always adopted this precaution, although some con- sider it unnecessary; but I regard it as a safeguard against infiltration; and if we fairly rupture the contraction, as we ought to do, some infiltration might occur ; indeed, I have seen it take place in one case, that of a stricture about three inches from the orifice, which I split, and where the patient neglected the direction I had given. I am also aware that occasionally patients are told that there is no necessity for even remaining quiet for twenty-four hours, but that they may go about as usual; but, in really serious cases of stricture, that is not safe advice nor judicious practice. Unless the natural orifice of the urethra is very small, I always at once use the largest of the dilators, so as to ensure complete rupture of the contracted portion of the canal and the condensed surrounding textures. At the end of eight or ten days I pass a No. 10 catheter ; repeat this at gradually increasing intervals, and then instruct the patient to pass one for himself occasionally, so as to guard against relapse. The treatment of old unyielding strictures, by dividing the contracted portion of the urethra with cutting instruments, has often been recommended. The methods generally adopted were either the old operation, termed " la boutonniere," which used to be practised at first only in cases of impermeable strictures arising from partial destruction of the canal, with a view of restoring its continuity, but gradually came to be used in cases called impermeable, where the surgeon could not pass an instru- ment into the bladder. The operation consisted in passing a full-sized catheter down to the obstruction, cutting down upon it in the mesial line of the perineum, and dissecting back- wards to try to find the urethra beyond the contraction, and then, after cutting through the dense intervening structure