PHYMOSIS AND PARAPHYMOSIS. 1355 membrane of the prepuce, or the foreskin may ulcerate or slough. When we are called to a patient under such circumstances, we must sKt up the foreskin to such an extent as to be able to uncover the glans. To effect this, we take an ordinary director, pass it between the glans and prepuce as far up as the reflection of the lining membrane, bring the director close to the side of the frai- num, then carry a sharp-pointed, curved bistoury along the groove of the director, transfix the skin at the point of reflection, and slit the prepuce freely open. In many cases, when this is done, it will be found advantageous to clip off the thickened and altered foreskin, so as to effect complete circumcision. A few stitches may require to be inserted to diminish the cut surface. In cases of congenital phymosis, circumcision should always be performed. This is sometimes done by pressing back the glans penis, and then seizing the anterior part of the foreskin be- tween the blades of a pair of dressing forceps, and clipping off the projecting part of the prepuce ; but this method is very im- perfect, the skin and lining membrane of the prepuce are very loosely connected, and the latter is closely applied, almost adhe- rent to the surface of the glans ; hence, when the projecting por- tion of the foreskin is cut off, you must slit up the lining mem- brane, and cut it off subsequently. It is better to proceed in the manner described in the case of acute phymosis ; that is, to slit up the prepuce to the point of reflexion, and then clip it off with scissors. In this case, however, we must recollect that it is essen- tial to stitch the cut edges of the skin and lining membrane, to prevent their separation. Ice or iced water dressing should be applied to prevent oozing, and the cut margins of the prepuce protected by the application of a little oil when the patient passes water. PARAPHYMOSIS consists in retraction of the prepuce, which becomes swollen. The sharp and unyielding cutaneous margin becomes tight, and constricts the penis behind the glans.' The mucous lining is swollen and oedematous, in consequence of 4 T