xxii EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. Fig. 2 shows the cnt surface after disarticulation. The flap is thrown back, exposing the glenoid cavity and the axilla. The posterior cir- cumflex artery has been dissected on the surface of the flap, to show that its trunk is intact, and only its extreme twigs divided. Fig. 3 shows the flap brought into position. Fig. 4 sketched from a patient about a year after the operation had been performed ; and Fig. 5 is from a patient in whom ampixtation by the double lateral flap .method had been performed. The results of the two methods are contrasted. AMPUTATIONS.—LOWER EXTREMITY.—Plate XXXIX.—Page 806. Figs 1 and 2 show the lines of incision in amputation of the toes, and in partial amputations of the foot. Fig. 3. Amputation of the phalanges of the great toe. The internal incision is prolonged far down, so as to obtain sufficient covering for the large head of the metatarsal bone. Fig. 4. Method of amputating the toe by V-shaped incision. Fig. 5. Amputation of all the toes at their junction with the metatarsus. Figs. 6 and 7 represent the formation of the plantar flap in Hey's or Lisfranc's amputation, by transfixion or by cutting the flap after disarticulatmg. Fig. 8 shows the cut surface resulting from the operation. Figs. 9, 10, and 11, represent amputation at the ankle by Syme's method. 9 shows the dissection of the heel-flap from the os calcis ; 10, the cut-surface of the stump after completion of the operation ; 11 gives the result of such amputation some years after the operation. Page 811. Figs. 12 and 13 show the lines of incision in Mackenzie's amputation by internal calcaneal flap. Page 812. Plate XL.—Page 814. Figs. 14 and 15 represent amptitation of the leg by a long posterior flap, by the method described at page 814; and Fig. 16 represents the result of the operation, from sketches taken from nature. Figs. 17 and 18 are outline sketches of stumps formed by the above method. Figs. 19 and 20. Amputation of the thigh by double flap. The lower dotted line in Fig. 19 indicates the long posterior flap as recom- mended by Liston ; the upper is the extent of the posterior flap as recommended in the author's modification of the double-flap operation. Page 744. Figs. 21 and 22 exhibit the steps of "transfixion and disarticulation in am- putation at the hip-joint as described at page 820.