1277 CASES—STATISTICS OF LITHOTOMY. being brought under the influence of chloroform. I obtained the parts operated on, and they show that the direction and state of the wound are as perfect as could be desired. (Plate Ivi.) This is the only fatal case I have had in children, and I feel at a loss to account for it, as there was no disease of the kidneys or Kver, but merely congestion and irritation of the mucous coat of the stomach. The young man, although twenty-two years of age, might have passed for fourteen or fifteen ; he was extremely emaciated, stunted in growth, and sallow, had suffered intense pain from stone in the bladder from infancy, but both he and his friends had refused to permit any operation, until his sufferings became so excessive that he could endure them no longer. He had a quick irritable pulse, dull pain over the abdomen, particularly in the right iliac region, and tenderness on pressing the perineum. The case was evidently a most unfavourable one, but, as his only chance of relief lay in the operation, I performed it after some pre- liminary treatment. There was no difficulty in its performance, as I extracted a large phosphatic calculus with ease. The day after the operation, I found him in great spirits owing to the relief from his previous symptoms, and for about a week he went on so well that I began to hope for a favourable result. But he then began to complain of general uneasiness, thirst, and want of appetite, and gradually sank, and died fifteen days after the operation, apparently from sheer exhaustion, without any rigors or other marked symptoms. On examination, the kidneys were found diseased, the coats of the bladder thickened, the mucous coat presenting the appearances of chronic cystitis. The textures in the course of the wound were not altered, but on the right side there was a large chronic abscess occupying the iliac fossa and passing down into the true pelvis. All these morbid conditions were traceable, I think, to the long-continued irritation caused by the stone. In regard to the statistics of lithotomy, it has long been understood that the average of successful results is greatly deter-