1390 REGIONAL SURGERY. crack or chap in the mucous membrane of the anal orifice, ex- tending longitudinally in the direction of its rugfe, and lying concealed from view between them, or by a lijemorrhoidal pro- jection. It can only be brought into view, therefore, by forcibly separating the nates, and then dilating the anus. This proce- dure, which can scarcely be effected except when the patient is under chloroform, will disclose a red irritable-looking crack, with hardened base and edges, which will be either dry, or moistened on the surface with a muco-sanguineous discharge. The symptom attending the disease is an intense agony, which reaches its acme during and immediately after the act of defecation. The bowel feels as if it were dragged up, and sometimes the sphincter becomes spasmodically closed, so that the freculent matter is retained, giving rise to symptoms like those of strangulated hernia, owing to the absolute constipation which often occurs. Having made sure of the diagnosis, the Treatment is simple and effectual. All that is required is to take a narrow probe- pointed bistoury, lay the edge of this within the crack, and cut down through its hardened base. If the sphincter be much contracted, the incision should be extended through a few of its fibres ; the muscle should be completely divided if the spasm has been intense. The operation may also be conducted by the transfixion method already indicated, by making use of a sharp- pointed narrow curved bistoury, and passing it under the dense base in the line of the fissure, bringing it out beyond its upper extremity, and cutting outwards. M. Eibes, who first drew at- tention to this operation, thought it was absolutely necessary to divide the whole sphincter, and in some cases it is certainly well to do so, in order to leave the parts at rest, but the essential part of the operation is to divide the hardened base. This is followed by immediate and entire relief of the patient. A coarser method has of late years been occasionally used, of intro- ducing the operator's forefingers within the sphincter, and then forcibly tearing up the fissure ; but it is a very coarse and uncertain procedure.