PRECAUTIONS IN RETURNING THE BOWEL. 1179 placed in greater clanger. I can hardly help thinking that in the second case some small portion of gut must have been re- duced during the manipulations, without having been noticed, the relief was so immediate and complete. In operating for strangulated hernia, as well as in reduc- tion by taxis, a portion of gut may be pushed back with the constriction unrelieved. This is most likely to occur in opera- tions for small hernijB, and especially v/hen the extra-peritoneal operation is adopted, unless care be taken to empty the sac of its contents before invaginating it, and to avoid pushing a small rupture back m masse. In femoral hernia this might easily occur, if the operation be roughly or carelessly performed. But even when the sac is opened this accident may take place. I have in my private museum a small inguinal hernia, from a case operated on by an excellent surgeon and anatomist, in which the gut has been pushed up within the parietes, with a tight strangu- lation at the neck of the sac still remaining unrelieved. I have, from the time I examined that case, invariably used the follow- ing precautions in all cases in which I find it necessary to open the sac :—First, after dividing the constriction, I draw down, very gently, a fresh portion of intestine, to feel that the gut is free, and to ascertain its condition at and above the constricted point. Secondly, in reducing it I follow the bowel or omentum with my finger, to make myself absolutely sure that it is fairly lodged within the peritoneal cavity, and that no constriction can remain. In operating by the extra-peritoneal method, I never return the sac and its contents simultaneously, but empty the sac of its contents first. If I find any difficulty in doing so, I open the sac, so as to avoid all risk, and to leave no doubt on my mind as to the state of the parts. For whilst in a recent case I see no reason for unnecessarily opening the sac, I have no such dread of the effects of opening it as to induce me to run any risk of an imperfect operation. The great safety in strangu- lated hernia is early operation, performed carefully and deliber- ately, making sure of free, or at least complete, division of the constriction, and avoiding, as far as possible, fingering the in- 4 H