1302 REGIONAL SURGERY. But whilst the prostate is subject to this state of disorganisa- tion, it is very rare to meet with enlarged prostate in combina- tion with tight or irritable stricture; at least such is the result of my observation after a very large amount of experience in the treatment of bad stricture cases during the last thirty years, and after having examined many collections of morbid speci- mens. It might, perhaps, be possible to account for this, but, without theorising, I content myself with stating the fact that, though I have had occasion to treat very many bad strictures in old men, and whilst I have often jnet with the serious altera- tions mentioned above, I have rarely found the prostate as much increased in bulk as it usually is after fifty years of age, and on two occasions only have I found chronic enlargement of the prostate so great as seriously to complicate catheterism in reten- tion. In one of these, after passing a No. 3 catheter through the stricture, I fopnd that, fropa the great enlargement of the prostate, and elong9,tion of the prostatic portion of the canal, the small catheter could not reach the distended bladder. I forcibly dilated the stricture with an old-fashioned conical catheter, and then passed a No. 7 prostatic one into the bla.dder, and retained it there for thirty-six hours. In the other case the patient had laboured under stricture for nearly |ifty years. He was seventy-six years of age, and the prostate was felt enormously enlarged ; but he was labouring under complete retention, with abscess in the perineum. I opened the abscess, having first passed a small grooved stricture-staff through the contraction, and then divided the stricture, and, by using a large and long gum-elastic catheter, I relieved the bladder. Both cases did well; but these, as I have said, are the only instances in which I have met with such a complication. The membranous portion of the urethra, as it yields more readily than other parts of the canal, is always very ranch dilated in c^ses of tight stricture. The bladder itseK is always more or less affected in cases of stricture, and in bad cases very seriously. Owing to the obstruc- tion it has to overcome in evacuating its contents, its muscular coat becomes excessively developed, the enlarged fasciculi of muscular