REGIONAL SURGERY. 1176 trusted to my experience of the exceptional case above narrated, these others would have been lost. Three years ago a man was admitted into the Eoyal Infirmary, under my care, suffering from an irreducible omental scrotal hernia. By applying cold, moderate pressure, and enjoining absolute rest and low diet, I was able to return a considerable portion of the omentum, and he was dismissed relieved. About ten months afterwards he was again brought from a long distance to my care, suffering from symptoms of strangulation and peri- tonitis. The surgeon who had seen him had wished to operate, and urged him to submit, but, remembering his former recovery, he refused, and insisted on being brought to me. There was evi- dently a portion of bowel as well as omentum in the sac, and I told him there was no chance but by operating. I did so, and found the gut almost gangrenous, and he died in about forty- eight hours. This case, in contrast with the first mentioned, will show you the difficulty of being absolutely certain as to the cause of the symptoms arising in patients afflicted with irreducible hernia ; but I would advise you that, though there may be some doubt, whenever the symptoms are severe, or do not speedily yield to opiates, and cold to the tumour and other remedies, the safety of the patient is in operating. There used to be a good old general order in the British navy, issued to all commanders, as regarded the propriety of engaging an enemy of superior force, " When in doubt, fight;" and in regard to hernia I would say, " When in doubt, operate." The second class of cases I have referred to are those in which a hernia has apparently been reduced by taxis, and yet the symptoms of strangulation continue. When this occurs in the case of small hernise, we at once conclude that the sac and its contents have been returned en hloc with the constriction remaining on the contained gut. But in cases of large scrotal hernia, for example, you might question the possibility of this occurring, and yet I have met with several instances. In these large hernise we have seen that an old small sac, with its con- stricted neck, may be pushed down before a fresh protrusion.