REGIONAL SURGERY. 1182 spermatica externa, tlie iatercolumnar fascia between the pillars of tlie external ring, the cremasteric fascia, the margins of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles wliich cross and over- lap it, and, lastly, the fascia propria immediately investing the sac. While it is well to study these anatomical points, that the surgeon cutting down on the hernia may recognise these parts, yet you must not expect to see them as in dissection. You should examine preparations of hernise, to recognise the morbid changes in structure in old hernia3. It is wrong, however, to say, as some do, that a knowledge of anatomy is of no use in regard to operating for hernia, for it teaches us not only to recog- nise textures when operating, but also to understand the direc- tion of the protrusion and its relations to other parts, and hence is useful in regard to diagnosis and treatment, whether the latter consists in the taxis or the operation. We must now briefly consider the course of a Direct or Ventro-Inguinal Hernia. This kind of hernia does not pass through the whole length of the canal; it emerges through some weak point in the conjoined tendons, from distension of the abdomen, or some other predisposing cause, leading to the formation of a weak point in these tendons. The hernia may either carry before it the fascia transversalis, or burst through it, as that fascia is very thin at this point. The protrusion therefore passes along only the lower part of the canal, and then directly downwards and forwards, so as to correspond at once to the lower or external ring. It very generally carries the then almost cellular portion of the fascia transversalis before it. Camper, however, was of opinion that it always broke through the thin fascia transversalis, and hence he stated that the fascia propria of a direct inguinal hernia was different from that of an oblique, and was formed by the intercolumnar fascia, or fascia spermatica externa, from the margins of the external ring. The principal point of difference to consider is, that the direct or ventro-inguinal hernia appears on the inner side of the cord, and crosses and covers it at the lower part of the canal; whereas an oblique inguinal hernia follows the direction of the