REGIONAL SURGERY. 1040 Another and much more frequent class of cases are those of laryngeal spasm, produced by the presence of Thoracic Aneurism. This is an important subject, for surgeons are constantly being called upon to perform tracheotomy for aneurism of the aorta or of the innominate artery. There are two classes of cases of aneurism in which we may interfere, but only in one of them with advantage. The first and favourable class of cases are those where we have an aneurism pressing upon and irritating the recurrent laryngeal nerve, causing frequent spasm of the muscles supplied by this nerve, and therefore leading to threatened dyspnoea and asphyxia. Here there is no direct pressure by the aneurism on the trachea ; it is a reflex action, and in such cases the per- formance of tracheotomy will relieve the breathing and prolong the patient's life, and it may subsequently improve the condition of the aneurism itself But if we have an aneurism situated on the arch of the aorta, or on the innominate artery, pressing on the lower part of the trachea, just at its bifurcation, the case is different. There we have difficulty of breathing, and we may also have laryngeal spasm, but the aneurism presses directly on the trachea below the point at which we could perform tracheotomy. We cannot safely pass down a tube to relieve the breathing, so that we cannot afford even temporary relief by the operation, therefore w^e are not warranted in its. performance. We must keep in mind that there is a very great risk of opening the sac either with the knife or the extremity of the tube. I was asked one morning to go and see a case of aneurism, in which the patient had been suffering from double bronchitis for some time. From the stridulous laryngeal character of the breathing, her medical attendant thought that tracheotomy might be required. I was very tired at the time, and asked him to consult a physician, and stated that if the operation was neces- sary I would perform it. I was not sent for, and on asking for the patient I heard that she was dead. The physician was depressing the tongue with the handle of a spoon, to examine the throat, when a sudden gush of florid blood destroyed the