KING’S College LONDON Library AXXi y 0\r[LL'^U 0^ /^<riyM^ n Tni na 20- 08700 KING’S COLLEGE LONDON/ V 1 ft 0 % \ ft- • m V i H/* >« * ft « i f 4OUTLINES OF THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY, IN ITS SOUND AND DISEASED STATE, BV ALEXANDER MONRO junior, M.D, F.R.S. E. » PROFESSOR. OF MEDICINE, ANATOMY AND SURGERY, IN THE UNIVERSITY ^ OF EDINBURGH, FELLOW OF THE RO.YAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, AND ONE OF THE PHYSICIANS TO THE GENERAL DISPENSARY OF IDINBURGn. IN THREE VOLUMES. VOL. II. EDINBURGH : PRINTED FOR ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO. EDINBURGH: AND LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME & BROAVN, LONDON.hv iX WUltMUt, KUiubttrgK.) TO Jy\.MES BRYCE Esq. F.R.S. WHOSE IMPORTANT PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS AND DISCOVERIES RESPECTING A NEW MODE OF OBTAINING AND PRE^JERVING THE INFECTION OF THE COW POX, AND A CERTAIN TEST OF PERFECT VACCINATION, HAVE PROVED SO BENEFIClAi;, TO MANKIND, THIS VOLUME IS DEDICATED BY HIS SINCERE FRIEND,- / THE AUTHOR.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21304464_0002CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.' ' PART i: Chap. I. General Observations upon the Structure and Functions of the Organs of -Digestion - 1 Chap* II. Of the Organs of Manducation and Deglutition - - 8 Sect. 1. Of the Jaws and Teeth ‘ - - 8 — Of the Teeth in the Adult - •• 14* — Of the Cuspidati, or Canine Teeth - 14> — Of the Formation of the First Set of Teeth 17 — Of the Formation of the Enamel - 20 — Of the period at which the First Set of Teeth, or Temporary Teeth, appears 21 —^ Of the Shedding of the First Set of Teeth, and of the Appearance of the Second Set 22 — Of the Formation of the Second Set of Teeth - - - - g-i .— Changes in the Teeth and Jaws m advanc- ed life - - - - 25 — Of the Variety of the Jaw at different pe- riods of life - - 26V Sect. 4. Of the Palate - - 35 — Of the Ducts of the Parotid Gland - 40 Sect. 2. Of the Os Hyoides - - - 30 Sect. 5. Of the Tonsils - - • - 36 Sect. 6. Disposition of the Muscles of the Os Hy- / vi CONTENTS. Fag«^ Autliors on the Structure and Diseases of the Human Teeth - - 29 Sect. 3. Of the soft parts of the Mouth and its Ap- pendages - ■ - - ” 33 Sect. 6. Of the Tongue - - 37 Sect. 7. Of the Salivary Glands - - 38 — Of the Submaxillary Gland - - 41 — Of the Sublingual Gland - - 42 — Chemical Analysis of the Saliva - 42 Sect. 8. Of the Pharynx - - - 43 Sect. 9. Of the Gullet - - - 44 Chap. III. Of the Muscles which are sub- servient to Mastication and De- glutition - - 48 Sect. 1. General Description of the Disposition of the Muscles of the Fore Part of the Head - - - 4S Sect. 2. Muscles which move the Lower Jaw - 51 Sect. 3. Muscles of the Cheeks and Lips - 54 Sect. 4. Muscles of the Palate - - 58 Sect. 5. Disposition of the Muscles of the Fore Part of the Neck - 60 oides and Tongue - - 61 Sect. 7. Muscles for Moving the Os Hyoides - 63 Sect. 8. Muscles of the Tongue - - 65 Sect. 9. Muscles of the Pharynx - - 68 — . Engravings of the Mouth, Fauces, Pharynx, and Gullet - - - 69 Autliors on tlie Muscles described in tlie last Section - - - .70 Engravings of the Muscles of the Face 70CONTENTS. TU Page Chap. IV. Sect. 1. Of the Abdomen - \ Sect. 2. Of the Muscles of the Parietes of the Ab- domen - " ■ ' Anatomical description of the Internal Parts in the Male - Of the Crural Sheath - , __ Of the Crural Aperture Of the Fascia Transversalis Of the Fascia Lata of the Thigh _ Of the Bloodvessels which are proper to the Muscles of the Parietes of the Abdomen, and of the. Situation of the neighbouring Bloodvessels in respect to Jnguinal and Crural Hernia - - ' Sect. 3. Of the Peritonaeum - Sect. 4. Of the Stomach . - - Of the Coats of the Stomach Sect. 5. Of the Gastric Juice Sect. 6. Of the Theories concerning the Agent by which the Food is converted within the Stomach into Chyme ■ Air within the Stomach and Intestines Sect. 7. Of tlie Intestinal Canal Of the Duodenum - - * _ Of Chylification, or the Changes which the Food undergoes witlain the Duodenum Of the Chyle - - Of the Jejunum and Ilium Of the Valvula Coli - - Of the Larger Intestines Of the Course of the Larger Intestines _ Of the Contents of the Larger Intestines _ Of the Chemical Analysis of Human Faeces Sect. 8. Of the Coats of the Intestines — Of the First Coat - - -i - 71 72 . 81 83 84 85 86 88 108 109 115 117 122 124 125 126 126 128 128 129 131 131 133 134 134 135CONTENTS. Vlll Sect. 9. Page Of die Second Coat - - - - 135 Of the Villous Coat • - 137 Of the Coats of the Larger Intestines - 138 Of the Mucous Glands of the Intestines - 139 Of the Appendix Vermiformis - - 139 Of the Intestinum Curvum, commonly call- ed Intestinum Rectum - - - HO Of the Arteries and Veins of the Intestinal Canal - - - - 141 Of the Nerves of tire Intestines - 142 Of tlie Muscles of the Anus - ■ 142 Authors on the Structure of the Stomach 145 Authors on Digestion . - - 146 Authors on the Intestines - - 146 Authors on tlie Peritonteum - - 146 ' Engravings of tire Stomach - - 146 Engravings of the Duodenum - - 147 Engravings of the smaller Intestines - 147 Engravings of the Valves of the Colon - 148 Engravings of the Large Intestines - i48 Figures of the Intestinum Rectum - 148 PART IV. Chap. I. Of the Organic Derangements of the Alimentary Canal 151 — Of the Organic Derangements of the Or- gans of Manducation and Deglutition 152 — Of Malconformation and Diseases of the Lips and Cheeks ... 153 — Of Malconformation and Diseases of the Tongue .... , 254 — Of Diseases of the Os Hyoides - 155CONTENTS. — Of Organic Diseases of the Palate — Of-Organic Derangements of the Salivary Glands - - - . — Of Wounds and Diseases of the Ducts of the Salivary Glands — Of Salivary Concretions ... — Of Organic Derangements of the Muscles of the Tongue, Fauces and Pharynx — Of Organic Derangements of the Tonsils Chap. II. Of the Organic Derangements of the Stomach and Intestinal Canal - - . — Of Alvine Concretions . . . — Of the Effects of Arsenic and its Oxydes upon the human frame, when taken into the Stomach - - - . Sect. 1. Of the Organic Derangement of the Vil- ‘ lous Coat of the Alimentary Canal — Of Inflammation of the Villous Coat of the Alimentary Canal ... — Of Ulceration and Erosion of the Villous Coat - - . . _ — Of the Appearances of the True Dysentery Sect. 2. Of diflFerent kinds of Tumours connected with the innermost Coat of the Alimen- tary Canal - . - - . Of the Milt-like Tumour of Mucous Mem- branes - . . _ — Of Polypi . - - - . — Of Fungous Tumours . — Of Haemorrhoids .... — Of Aphthae . . Of the Villous Coat, Cartilaginous, or Os- seous - . , . _ — Of the Organic Derangements of the Cel- lular Coat of the Alimentary Canal l!C Page 153 136 156 157 159 160 162 162 167 16S 168 169 170 173 173 175 177 181 181 181 182CONTENTS. X \ ^ Page Of Organic Derangements of the Muscu-* lar Coats of the Alimentary Canal - 182 Of the Organic Derangements of the Peri- toneal Coat of the Alimentary Canal 183 Of Stricture of the Alimentary Canal - 183 Of the Coats of the Alimentary Canal re- duced to a Pulpy State - - 185 Of Scirrhous and Cancer of the Alimen- tary Canal - - - - 186 Of Intus-Susceptio - - - 187 Of Hemis, or Ruptures - - 190 Of Inguinal Hernia - - - 192 Of Crural Hernia - - - - 194* Of the Varieties of Crural Hernia - 195 Of Umbilical Hernia - ^ 200 Of Congenital Hernia - - - 201 Of Ventral Hernia - 201 Of Internal Hernia - - - 201 Of Intestinal Worms « - 202 Of Taenias - - - . 202 Of their Anatomical Structure - - 203 Of the Species of Taenia - - 205 Of Round Worms - - 207 Of Ascaris Vermicularis ... 208 Of Ascaris Lumbricoides - - 209 Of their Anatomical Structure - - 211 Of Trichuris Hominis - -■ 212 Authors on the Organic Derangements of the Alimentary Canal - ' Authors on Intestinal Worms 213 214< Engravings of Hernia?, and the Organic De- rangements of the Alimentary Canal - 215 PART V. Chap. I. OftheAssistantChylopoeticViscera 219CONTENTS, XI Page Sect. 1. Of the Liver of the Adult - - 219 — Of the Bloodvessels of the Liver - 226 Sect. 2. Of the Source of the Bile - - 226 Sect. 3. Of the Biliary Ducts ... 230 — Of the Gall Bladder - . - 232 — Of the Structure of the Gall Ducts - 233 Sect. 4. Of Bile .... 234 — Of Healthy Bile obtained from a Person executed ... 235 Sect. 5. Of the Spleen . . - 236 Sect. 6. Of the Pancreas ... 237 Sect. 7. Of the Omenta .... 240 — Authors upon the Spleen, with Engravings 242 — Authors upon the Liver and Gall-Bladder, with Engravings .... 243 — Authors on the Gall-Bladder - _ - 243 •— Authors on the Pancreas - _ . 243 PART VI. Chap. I. Of the Organic Derangements of the Liver, Spleen, Pancreas, and Omentum - - _ Sect. 1. Of the Organic Derangements of the Liver 247 — Of Gangrene of the Liver - - 249 '— Of Induration of the Liver - - 249 — Of the Sac of Hydatids - 258 — Of the Coats of Hydatids - . . 259 — Of the Bloodvessels of Hydatids - 260 — Of the different States in which Hydatids are found ... 2^2 — Of the Manner in wliich the Cysts of Hyda- tics are formed - 263 — Of the Effects of Hydatids upon the Organs which contain them ... 264Mi CONTENTR. Page — Of the Liver unnaturally soft - - 269 — Of the Rupture of the Liver - - 271 — Of Worms of the Liver - - 271 Of Biliary Calculi - - 271 Sect. 2. Of the Organic Derangements of the Spleen 276 — Of Inflammation of the Spleen - 276 — Of Spleen, very, small - - 277 — Of the Spleen ossified ‘ - - 278 — Of Stony Concretions of the Spleen - 278 — Of the Spleen of a Preternatural Softness 278 — Of the Ruptured Spleen - - 278 Sect. 3. Of the Organic Derangements of the Pan- creas - - - - 279 — Of Gangrene of tlie Pancreas - 279 — Of 'Scirrhus of the Pancreas - - -279 — Of Calculi in the Pancreas - - 280 Sect. 4. Of the Organic Derangements of the O- menta - - - 281 — Authors on the Organic Derangements of the Liver . - - 282 — Authors on Biliary Calculi - 283 PART VII. C'.HAP. I. Of the Lacteal Vessels through which the Nutritious part of our Food passes into the Blood 287 Sect. 1. Of the Lacteal Vessels ... 287 Sect. 2. Of the Situation and Structure of the Lac- teal and Lymphatic Glands - 289 Sect. 3. Of the Course of the Lacteal Vessels 290 Sect. 4. Of the Causes and Manner of Absorption 291CONTENTS. Xlll Page Sect. 5. Of the utility of a Knowledge of the Course and Functions of the Lymphatic Vessels 294i PART VIII. Chap. I. Of the Organic Derangements of the Lymphatic System - 309 — Authors on the Absorbent Vessels - 311 PART IX. Chap. I. Of the General Description of the Parietes, and Contents of the Thorax - - - 315 — Of the Measurements of the Capacity of the Thorax - - - 317 — Of the Depth of the Thorax, and Distance from the Fore to the Back Part of it 317 — 43f the Female Mammx - 318 Sect. 2. Of the Contents of tlie Thorax - 321 Sect. 3. Of thejCirculating System - - 323 — Of the Cruor - - - 328 Sect. 4. Of the Structure of the Pericardium and • Heart - . . . 329 — Of the Heart ... 331 — Of the Pulmonic, or Anterior Part of the Heart ... . 334. — Of the Pulmonary Artery - 337 — Of the Posterior, or Systematic Heart 338 — Bloodvessels of the Heart - ' - 339 — Nerves of the Heart - . 339CONTENTS. XIV Page Sect. 5. General Description of the Arteries - 340 — Of Varieties in the Arterial System - 342 — Comparative Vascularity - - 343 — Of the Terminations of the Arteries - 343 — Of the Veins - - - 344 — Of the Coats of the Arteries and Veins 346 Sect. 6. Observations on the Circulation of the Blood 350 Chap. II. Of Assimilation and Nutrition 358 Chap. III. Of Secretion - - 360 — Authors upon die Structure of the Heart, Arteries, and Veins - - 363 PART X. Chap. I. Of the Organic Derangements of the Vascular System - 367 Sect. 2. Of Aneurism of the Arteries - 368 Sect. 4. Of Internal Aneurisms - - 369 Sect. 5. Of Aneurisms of the Heart - 371 Sect. 6. Of Inflammation, Abscess, Mortification, and Ossification of the Vascular Systerri 372 Sect. 7. Of Aneurisms of the Descending Aorta 373 Sect. 8. Of the Organic Derangements of the Peri- cardium - 373 — Authors on Aneurism - - 374 — Authors on the Inflammation of the Heart 375 — Authors on the Dilatation of the Heart ' 375 — Authors on Diseases of the Valves of die Heart - - - 375 — Authors on the Ulceration of the Heart 376 — Authors on the Adhesion of the Pericardium > to the Heart - - - 376<SONTENTS. XV Page — Explanation of Plates 33. and 34. - 377 — Explanation of Plate 35. - ■ 378 PART XI. Sect. 1. General observations on Respiration, and on the Structure of the Thorax and Lungs 381 Sect. 2. Of the Lungs ... 383 — Of the Lobes and Lobules of the Lungs 384 — Of the Coats of the Lungs - 384? Sect. 3. Of the Air Tubes of the Lungs - 384? — Of the Air Cells of the Lungs - 386 Sect. 4?. Of the Bloodvessels of the Lungs - 387 — Of the Lymphatic Vessels of the Lungs 38S — ©f the Nerves of the Lungs - 388 Sect. 5. Of the Mechanism by which Respiration is performed ... 388 — Of the Muscles by which Inspiration is ac- complished - 389 — Of the Intercostal Muscles - 389 — Of the Diaphragm, or Muscular Partition between the Chest and Abdomen - 395 — Of the Muscles of Exspiration - 397 Sect. 6. Of the Effects of Respiration on the Blood 397 Sect. 7. Of the Effects of Respiration on the Atmos- pherical Air - ; - 398 — Authors on Respiration - 399 PART XII. Chap. I. On the Organic Derangements of the Lungs - 403Xvi CONTENTS. ' Page Sect. 1. On Inflammation of the Lungs - 403 — Authors on the Organic Derangements of the Lungs - 408 PART XIII. Chap. I. Sect. 1. Of the Larynx - - - 411 — Of the Thyroid Cartilage * 412 —. Of the Cricoid Cartilage - 413 — Of the Arytenoid or Pyramidal Cartilages 413 — Of tlie Epiglottis - - 414 Sect. 2. Of the Ligaments of the Larynx, or the Vocal Chords - - - 41.5 Sect. 3. Of the Muscles of the Larynx . - 416 — Of the Arytenoldciis Transversus - 417 — Of tlie Arytenoidei Obliqui - - 417 — Of the Crico-Arytenoidei Laterales - 417 — Of the Thyro-Arytenoidei - - 417 — Of the Crico-Thyroidei - - 418 — Of the Crico-Arytenoidei Postici - 418 Sect. 4. Of die Physiology of the Larynx 418 “tllHAP. II. Of the Glands connected with the Larynx and Trachea - 420 Sect. 1. Of the Mucous Glands-connccted ivlth the Larynx - - 421 Sect. 2. Of the Mucous Glands of the Trachea 421 Sect. 3. Of the Thyroid Gland - - 422 — Of the Physiology of the Thyroid Gland 423 Sect. 4. Of the Bronchial Glands - - 423OUTLINES OF THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN BODY. CHAPTER I. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS UPON THE STRUC- TURE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Bv Digestion^ is understood that process, ' which the food received into the alimentary ca- nal undergoes the alteration necessary for repair- ing the waste, and sustaining the strength of the animal during the exercise of its several func- tions. To support the strength of the body, animals are provided with digestive organs; and are at VOL. II. A2. OUTLINES or ANATOMY. the same time stimulated, by the sensations of hun- ger and thirst, to take in the proper supply of ali- ment. ' The food is separated into its useful and use- less parts within the stomach and intestines ; and the nutritious part, called Chyle, is absorbed by small vessels, which, from the colour of the fluid they contain, have been called Lacteal. It is the office of these vessels to convey the lac- teal fluid to be mixed with the blood, the source from which every part of the body is formed and nourished. In considering the nature of digestion, it is ne- cessary to examine, T. The preparation which the food undergoes before it enters the stomach. 2. The changes it undergoes in the stomach and intestines. 3. The separation of the nutritious and excre- mentitious parts. 4. The mode of conveyance of the nutrition or chyle into the blood. 5. The changes which it undergoes after its mixture with the general circulating fluid. 6. The nature of the secreted fluids, and the effects of the different secretory and excretory or- gans.QRQANS OF DIGESTION. 3 A 2 S^ch extensive view of the sulyect, beside ppfojding the ani^tojmical stru^:ture and particular U^e o/ ^he different organs, is c^alculated to exhi- ttit ip^tructiye physiqlogic^l view of the rda- ^iqps established between theiii, ajnd o^f the subser- vieppy pf t]iq fpn.ctipns of th? animal economy to ope apothe?^, Anirnals receive their food into an internal re- rfi'S ■' '' - ^ . f** r#* » 1^ ^ CQptcffi^y or sfqpjack, situated tpithin the body. Ve- getables are nourished by their roots, and by the %'hich open upon^ Hibpo- C9.^T?s ^as jpstly Remarked, * Ut terrae arboribi^, *■ ita apiniglibus yentriculus.’ A rq^^tipp is established between the external fpyrp pf animal, and its organs of sensation, ipastipation, apd digestion. Hence the remarkable differences in the external form, and internal orga- pjzatidP of parnivorpus, graminivorous, and omni- yptous, apimak 9,^ those that feed alike upon ani- mal an4 Ypgetable fopd. 'I'jie ^hgpe and rpqyements of the human jaw; tl^e structure and, form of the human teeth ; thp organi?.ation, length, and cQnyolutions of the ali- mentary cgqal,—all clearly she\V that man is in- tended to he omnimryit^i or to live both on vege- table and animal food* The length, diameter, and strpcmre of the coats of the qUm^ntary canal, and the manner in which the different parts of that canal communicateOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 4 with one another, which is more or less favour- able to the exit or detention of the food, are by no means the same in different animals, and bear a relation to the kind of food. Thus, the alimen- tary canal of a graminivorous animal is not only much longer, and more complicated in its struc-. ture, but also much more capacious than that of a carnivorous animal, whose food contains more nourishment in smaller compass, and is more rea- dily digested. The alimentary canal of an animal designed to live partly on vegetable, and partly on animal food, holds a middle place between that of a car- nivorous and graminivorous animal. In this class, man ii included ; and, when the individual reaches to maturity, the alimentary canal is generally be- tween thirty and thirty-six feet long. In the lower classes of animals, the Alimentary Canal is of a very simple structure, consisting chiefly or solely of a bag, into which the food is received, and of an aperture through which it is discharged. But, in the higher classes of ani- mals, it is more complex in its form and appara- tus, being of considerable length, and enlarged in one or more places, to constitute a stomach or sto- machs ; and in such animals, the term Gullet is ap- plied to the canal which leads into the stomach, and the term Intestine^ to that which leads out from the stomach, and through which the food is conveyed out of the body.'ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Before the food reaches the stomach, it is mi- nutely divided by the teeth, mixed with the sa- liva and mucus of the mouth and throat; and it is then carried, by means of the muscular power of the gullet, into the stomach. The food, owing to the particular figure, posi- tion, and structure of the orifices of the human stomach, is retained within that organ, to undergo the first process of digestion. > Some authors have asserted, that the food is completely digested within the stomach by means of the Gastric Juice. But in my opinion this as- sertion is not well founded, nor do I think the process of digestion can be considered as com- plete, until the aliment has been mixed with the bile, pancreatic juice, and other animal secretions, in its long circuitous route through the intestines, by which its nature is completely changed, or its assimilation perfected. The Chyle or nutritious part, the product of di- gestion, is afterwards in all probability somewhat changed in its properties during its passage through'* the lacteal vessels; but it is not completely ani^ malized until after its admixture with the blood, and until it has been exposed in its passage through the lungs to the influence of the atmospherical air. The Human Intestinal Canal is about six times the length of the body, in order that the food may undergo the necessary changes, and it is divided in- A 3OUTLINES OF ANATOMY* to two portions of very unelqual size, both of which have their length greatly increased by various con- volutions. The internal surface of the Interstinal Canal is much more extensive than the external, the in- ner coats being folded into doublings, which, performing in some measure the office of Valves^ have been named by anatomists Valvulce Conni- ventes; and the inner surface is still further ex- tended by the subdivisions of these Valvulae into ,very small Villi. By the above means, the internal surface of the intestines is much extended : more space is given for the absorption of the nutritious part of the aliment, and the addition of those secreted fluids which probably have a chemical effect upon our food, and also for the addition of the mucus which defends the intestines from the acrimony of its contents. The food is carried through this long and cir- cuitous route by a series of powerful muscular fi- bres, which constitute the coats of the alimentary canal; and these coats perform their office so com- pletely, as to propel the contents of the intestines contrary to their gravity, and even to push forward air or quicksilver. To this effect the muscles of the parietes of the belly, and that muscle between the belly and chest called diaphragm^ essentially contribute.7 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. • The muscular coats also produce the peristal- tic and antiperistaltic motion> which is kept up by the stimulus of the food. Thus the various contents of the alimentary canal are intimate- ly united ; some are dissolved j others enter in- to new combinations j and thus also'the alimen- tary mass is presented to the lacteal vessels^ which take their origin from the inner surface of the in- testines •, and the discharge of that part of our food which is useless is accomplished. But as, without the addition of some other covering, the muscular Coats of the alimentary canal would be exposed to be torn ; therefore the membrane cal- led Peritonaeum, which fixes the alimentary ca- nal to the back-bone, is continued over the sto- mach and intestines, forming their external cover- ing, by means of which the alimentary canal is enabled to resist over-distention from air or fae- ces. There is still another property, which is indis- pensably necessary to the alimentary canal, viz. a power of accommodating its capacity to the quantity of its contents. This is provided for by the elasticity and expansive power of all the coats, owing to the introduction of a quantity of loose cellular substance between the muscular and villous coats, and also to the loose manner in which the stomach and intestines are fixed to the body. A 4)8 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Lest the alimentary canal should be injured by the acrimony of its contents, and in order to facilitate the passage of these, the innermost coat, called, from its resemblance to velvet, nil- lous, is moistened and besmeared by a consider- able quantify of a mucous fluid, which is derived from a number of glands, imbedded in the cellu- lar substance uniting the muscular and villous coats. CHAPTER li. OF THE ORGANS OF MANDUCATION AND DEGLUTITION, Sect. I. OF THE JAWS AND TEETH. The jaws and teeth are the organs of manduca-; tion. The size, form, and strength of the jaws, and the structure and number of the teeth, are very different in different animals, being adapted to the kind of food on which the animal is intended to live.9 OF THE TEETH. . The structure and movements ot the jaws have been explained in the preceding volume ; and therefore I proceed to describe the Teeth. In the adult there are sixteen teeth in each jaw ; in all thirty-two ; but sometimes only thir- ty. The teeth of the upper jaw are placed near- ly perpendicularly irT respect to the skull, whereas those of the under jaw incline inwards. The periosteum only covers the roots of the teeth, otherwise it must have been liable to be bruised during manducation. Each tooth consists of a body and of one or more roots ; and between these there is a con- tracted portion, which has been called the neck or collar of the tooth. The roots of the teeth are implanted within the alveolar processes of the jaws, which are spongy bones, in the same manner as a nail is inserted in- to a piece of wood ; or they are fixed into the jaw by what anatomists call gomphosis. The sponginess of the jaw prevents the teeth from being readily broken during manducation. The roots of the teeth are fixed to the alveolar pro- cesses by the periosteum, which lines the sockets, and is reflected upon the roots of the teeth, as far as the collar of the tooth, where it is attached to the gums. The length of the roots of different teeth is va- rious j those of the dog teeth are the longest inlO OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. the human body, and next to them those of the front teeth of the upper jaw. The roots of the grinding teeth are the shortest, and diverge at a considerable angle from the body of the tooth. The smaller grinders of the upper jaw have three roots. The larger four ; but these, from the vicinity of the antrum maxillare, are ne- cessarily shorter than those of the under jaw. The roots are somewhat of a conical figure; thus the pressure falls upon the sides, and not upon the apex of the bone, where the bloodvessels and nerves, enter the tooth. The roots of the grinding teeth diverge from each other : hence the body of these teeth is sup- ported in part by the alveolar process, and the pressure divided during manducation. The neck or collar is grasped by the socket, and also by the gum ; and when this has been destroy- ed by scurvy, salivation, or other causes, the teeth frequently fall out. That part of the teeth above the gum, is cover- ed by a very hard, white, fibrous and insensible substance, called Enamel^ which becomes gra- dually thinner towards- the neck of the tooth. The enamel is not of an uniform thickness in dif- fereht teeth, nor in every part of the same tooth. It is thicker towards the upper surface, than in other parts of the tooth. The fibres of the enamel are very small, and parallel to each other, and perpendicular to theOF THE TEETH. II surface of the tobth, not only on thfe flat patt of the tooth, but also on the sides of the base. By such an arrangement of the fibres of the enamel, it is not apt to scale off; and therefore is well caU culated to resist attrition. The enamel contains, according to the experi- ments of Mr Pepys, 78 parts af phosphate of limey and 6 carbonate of limey hi the loc. It is al- most entirely soluble in acids; and retains its 'white colour, though exposed to a considerable degree of heat. The enamel forms only a crust for the teeth in man, and carnivorous animals ; blit, in the ruminant animal, it dips into the body of the tooth, and, being much harder, than the os- seous part, it is not so quickly worn down ; and therefore the tooth is always kept sharp, and fit for use. The roots of the teeth are cot^red by a thin layet of yellow matter, which has been called horny substance. Every tooth has a smooth, internal cavity, of the same shape as the body of the tooth, which is filled by a substance called Pulp. There is a small aperture near the point of each root, which leads into the cavity of the tooth, through which the bloodvessels and nerves enter into the sub- stance of the tooth.12 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The bony * * * § matter of the teeth, which is hard- er than that of most other bones, consists of a number of layers, parallel to the pulp, and to each other j and, according to Mr Pepys, con- sists 1af 58 parts in the 100 of phosphate of lime, of 4 of carbonate of lime, of jelly 28 ; and the water of composition and loss, amounted to 10. § The teeth are amply furnished with Bloodvessels, which may be filled with a colouring liquor, and, if divided, pour out blood, as the teeth are sawn across by the dentist. As a further proof of the vascularity of the teeth. Nodes sometimes form on them ; and the roots are sometimes joined together by Anchy- losis. The teeth have also Lymphatic Vessels. 'I'hough the Lymphatic Vessels of the teeth can- not be demonstrated, there are various facts which prove their existence, viz. the absorption of the roots of the first set of teeth, the colour given to the osseous part of the teeth by madder, being re- moved after discontinuing the use of it, and the' swelling of the lymphatic glands from a carious tooth. * Eysson t and Cuvier f affirm, that the bony part of the tooth differs from common bone in its structure and manner of formation; and that it resembles common bone only in hard- ness, and in its constituent ingredients. •j- Vid. Tractatus Anatotnico-Medicus de Ossibus Infantum, p. 18S. :{: CuviEa, Lemons d’Anat. Compar. tom. iii. § J'id. Fo.v on the Teeth.OF THE TEETH. I3 This fact is still further proved by the changes which the teeth undergo during the lifetime of the animal, which is very remarkable in the ele- phant. The great sensibility of the teeth proves that they have Nei'ves. The Ner’oes enter the roots nf the teeth, and may be traced into their bony canals, and, in pro- portion to the bulk of the teeth, are larger than in almost any other organ of the body *. The Nerves of the teeth in the under jaw, are derived from the inferior maxillary nerve ; and where the nerve enters the under jaw, it is much larger than where it passes out at the anterior mental foramen ; as, during that course, the nerves of the teeth are sent off from it ; and these nerves may be traced through the osseous canals of the teeth. The Nerves of the teeth of the upper jaw are derived chiefly from the second part of the fifth pair of nerves ; and those of the under jaw from the third part of the fifth pair. The teeth of animals, during the progress of life, are much exposed to attrition, and also to va- rious accidents. Animals, therefore, are provided with a succession of teeth. Man is provided with two sets of teeth. Some individuals have had three sets. * Vid. Monro on the Nervous System.14 OUTJ.INBS ar ANATOMY. Of the Teeth in the Adult. These were formerly divided into three the Incisoresy Caniniy and Molaves. The ^w)^ares have been divided by more modern anatpinis^s, into two classes, the Bicuspidati and Molare^* The Incisores of the upper ja^y pas^ over tlv?se of the under jaw, and, owing to their oblique tuation, act like scissars in dividing th& food* The Canine, or Laniavii of on ac- count of their strength and thickness, are weU constructed for perforating and tearing aninaal substances. The four fore-teeth in each jaw have beep pann- ed Incisores, as they cut the aliment. They are formed into a sharp cutting edge at their base, by their foreside turning inwards, while they are sloped down and hollowed behind. The Incisores of the upper ja\y are brqader and longer than those of the under jaw, When the stamina of two sets are formed, each has its own socket; those nearest the edge of the gums being placed more forwards, and the others arc lodged farther back withjp the jaw bones. Ciispidati, or Canine Teeth. The Canine teeth have been pamed fronr their likeness to the teeth of the dog. They are broad-OF TH£ TEETH. 15 or, longer, and stronger than the Incisores. Their bases are formed into a sharp edge, as the Incisores are ; only, that the edge rises into a point in the middle. Each of them has generally but one long root, though sometimes they have two. * The roots are crooked towards the epd. The Cetnini of the upper jaw are larger, longer, and with more crooked roots than those of the under jaw. The form of their base is fit both for pier- cing and cutting \ and the long crooked root of each makes it secure in the socket, j- There are five Dentes molares^ or Grinders, J in each side of each jaw ; in all twenty. Their bases are broader, more scabrous, and with a thinner cortical substance than the other teeth. They have also more roots ; and as these roots generally divaricate from each other, the partitions of the sockets between them bear a large share of the great pressure they suffer. The base of the first grinder has an edge point- ed in the middle, on its outside, resembling the Canini; from which it slopes inwards, till it rises again into a point. It has generally but one root, which sometimes is long and crooked at its point, Fauchahd, Chlrurgien DentisU, chpp. I. •J- The enamel is equal in thickness all around these teeth. f M.VX1TX1, fiixai, arAflSTnf, maxillarcs, men- Sflles, clavales, buccarum.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. i6 The second Dens molaris has two points oh its base, rising almost equally on its out and in side. It has two roots, either separate or run together, but shorter than the root of the first. These two anterior grinders are much smaller than the three that are placed farther back in the mouth. The third and fourth are very broad in their bases, with four or five points standing out; and they have three or more roots. The fifth, called, commonly. Dens sapiential from its coming through the gums later than the other grinders, has four points on its base, which is not so large as the base of the third and fourth, and its roots are less numerous. The Incisorts of the upper jaw are broader than those of the lower jaw ; hence the superior grinders are placed farther back than the lower ones, that v.'hen they are brought together, by shutting the mouth, the points of the grinders of the one jaw enter into the depressions of the opposite grind- ers ; and they are all equally applied to each other, notwithstanding the inequality of their surfaces. From the numerous roots of the Dentes molares, the lateral pressure in grinding does not render them loose; and as the sockets in the upper jaw are more spongy, and the’ teeth are more liable, by their situation, to fall out, * the grind- ers there have more numerous and more separat- * Galen, de Ossib. cap. v.OF THE TEETH. ed roots than in the lower jaw. * The number, however, of the roots of the teeth of both jaws is very uncertain. Sometimes there are more, some- times fewer. Frequently the roots are joined together ; at other times they are all distinct. The disposition of such as are distinct is also va- rious ; for in some the roots stand out streight, in others they separate, and in others again they are crooked inwards. When the roots are unit- ed, we can still distinguish them, by remarking the number/of small holes at their points, which determine the number of roots each tooth ought to be reckoned to have, f Of the Formation of the First Set of TeetJu The teeth are formed upon Pulps, which are contained within the alveolar processes of the jaw. .*. ■* Upon examining the foetus in utero, about the fourth or fifth month after conception, we find that the alveolar processes are not completely formed. There is a la?'ge canal in the janv, which, at dif- ferent places, is imprest by the pulps of the teeth. Even at this very early period, this canal is not of a very uniform breadth. It is adapted to * Fauchahd, Chlrurg, Dent. chap. I. f The above is the description of the teeth by Dr Mon- ro primus. A^OL. II. Bi8 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. the teeth, and therefore considerably broader at the back than at the fore part. In the bottom of this groove, the internal maxillary bloodvessels and nerves are disposed, which afterwards are lodged in a distinct canal. In a short time, there are a number of ridges, •which extend from the bottom and inner sides of this canal, and which form sockets for the teeth. These sockets extend very quickly, and con- tract at their upper parts ; so that, at the time of birth, there is found only beneath the gum a small transverse fissure. In consequence of this structure, the teeth with- ' ■ in the jaw are not injured while the child is suck- ing. The alveolar processes of the grinding teeth are situated immediately before the tuberosities of the upper jaw, and the coronoid processes of the under jaw. The pulps of the teeth are involved in capsules, which consist of two membranes, in both of which there is a great number of bloodvessels. The ex- ternal membrane adheres to the gum, and the in- ternal to the pulp. The pulps of the teeth are at first of a gelati- nous consistence, nearly of the figure of the tooth, and adhere to the inner surfaces of the gums. 'The pulp of each tooth is contained in its proper capsule, which is shaped like the base of the tooth, but without roots j which capsuleOF THE TEETH. 19 is attached, by means of its nerves and bloodves- sels, to the bottom of the alveolar processes; and its upper part is attached to the inner side of the gums. The pulp becomes gradually firmer and larger, so that at length it acquires the shape and size of the tooth about to be formed upon it. The Ossification begins about the sixth month after conception, upon the pulps, in the form of spots; the situation of which corresponds with the points of the teeth. The number of these Ossification's corresponds with the eminences on the pulp ; these gradually increase, and form a thin shell of bone, which covers the surface of the tooth. In the Incisor teeth, there are generally three points of ossifica- tion ; in the Canine only one point ; and in the Molares four or five points of ossification ; and these increase, in some, until their bases are united. The Ossification in the bases takes place in a lamellaled manner, and from 'without inwards; and the bony shells which form the teeth are a little contracted at the collar of the toothi At the period of birth, the outer shells of five teeth are found on each side of each jaw, or of twenty teeth. The bodies of the teeth are first converted into bone ; and the ossification goes on by a succes- sive deposition from without inwards; the layer B3OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 20 next the enamel being first formed, and the other layers being added within it. The roots are then added to the teeth, and are formed upon the pulp, which is elongated in con- sequence of the pressure made upon it by the progress of the ossification of the body of the tooth. When there are two or more roots, the osse- ous fibres extend across the under part of the bodies of the teeth, and leave vacant spaces, through which the processes of the pulp are pro- truded, and upon which the roots are formed. Of the Formation of the Enamel. The Enamel is secreted by the outer membrane of the capsule of the pulp, and is deposited. 'The Enamel, when first formed, is so soft, that it may be scraped by the nail. The Enamel is at first perfect on the cutting edges, or protuberances, of the tooth ; and it does not extend beyond the neck of the tooth. The Enamel continues to be secreted as long as the teeth are contained in their capsules. The mem- brane which secretes the Enamel is but of' tempo^ vary dw'ation : after having performed its office, it disappears. The teeth, by becoming larger within their sockets, stretch, and at length burst their capsules, which are removed by absorption. - The gum is also removed, and the tooth ap- pears through it: hence all that portion of mem- brane which loosely surrounded the body of the IOF THE TEETH. 21 tooth. Is destroyed, when the tooth has risen to its proper height. The bony part of the tooth, however, conti- nues to grow after the teeth have cut the gum ; about one third of the length of the root is added, by which the tooth is elevated, and cuts the gum. Of the Pcn'iod at xvhich the First Set qf Teeth^ or Tanporary Teethy appears. There is the utmost variety as to the time at which the teeth appear. In a stout, healthy child, the Incisor teeth of the under jaw show themselves between the sixth and seventh month after birth; but, in a puny, sickly child, not until the child is perhaps a year old. There are some diseases which seem to have a specific effect in arresting the growth of the teeth. I have repeatedly observed, that children la- bouring under the chronic forrp of the disease called water in the heady do not get their teeth till they are two or three years old. The larger incisors of the under jaw first cut the gum. A few weeks after the central incisors of the under jaw have cut the gum, those of the upper show themselves, and, in the next place, the la- teral incisors of both jaws. When the child is about a year and a half old, the smaller grinders22 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. of the lower jaw cut the gum ; these are follow- ed by the smaller grinders of the upper jaw. In the fcetal jaw, the smaller incisor, and the smaller grinding teeth, are in contact j the canine are lodged deeper in the jaw. About the twentieth month, the canine teeth show themselves : in the first place those of the under jaw, and soon after those of the upper jaw. .The Caninus appears after the first molares, or about the i6th or 2oth month ; as it is out of the line, and, till the jaw extends, there is not room for it i and the jaw at thi^ place grows in a great- er proportion than at any other part. The posterior or larger Molares appear between the 25th and 30th month. It may not be improper to add, that there is great irregularity as to the time the teeth are cut. Of Ihe Sfiedding of the First Set of Teeth, and of the appearance of the Second Set. As there is the utmost variety with regard to the time at which the teeth appear, so there is very great variety respecting the time at which teeth are shed. In a child at birth, the rudiments of the first and second sets are found within the jaw ; the bases of the second s?t are formed long before they first cut the gum. Whilst the first arc receiving roots, and cutting the gum, the second set is dormant, and continue^ so, long after the first have appeared. About the sixth year, all the second set, except-OF THE TEETH. 23 ing the wisdom teeth, are ossified; so that, at this period, there are t\o less than forty-eight teeth in the jaws : the first set, consisting of twenty, have appeared ; and the second set, consisting of twen- ty-eight, lye within the jaws. The sixth tooth, or first large molares of the adult, is also dormant. • The first set of teeth fall out in consequence of their roots being absorbed, which absorption takes place in consequence of the enlargement of the second setj by which, pressure is made on the bony partitions between the sockets of the first and second set of teeth, and also on the roots of the first set of teeth j which leads to the absorption of the bony partitions, as well as of the roots of the first set. In consequence of the above changes, the se- cond set comes forwards, and replaces the first, but are contained in their original sockets. The first set generally begin to fall out when the child is about six or seven years old. The anterior molares of the second set gene- rally appear first; then the larger incisors of the lower jaw ; in a month or two, the larger incisors of the upper jaw; then the molares of the child become loose, to make way for the smaller mo- lares of the second set : the canine generally fol- low some time after j and, last of all, the larger molares. The shedding of the first set is generally not completed in less than six years j and in someI 24 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. instances, some of the first set of teeth remain in the jaws during the greater part of life. Of the Formation of the Second Set of Teeth. The second set, like the first, is formed upon pulps, and these jmlps are j^f^^'ts or elongations of the pulps of the first set, which are sent out as soon as the rudiments of the first set have made some progress. The pulps of the second set of teeth are origi- nally xvithin the same socket, and adhci'e to the cap- sules of the first set; and these capsules are so inti- mately connected, that it is impossible to separate the one from the other, without lacerating one or both. By degrees little niches are formed in the internal alveolar plate, which gradually form a distinct socket around these sacs for the second set of teeth. Dr Blake, who, I believe, discovered the con- nexion between the sacs of the first and second sets, has very fully explained the above mentioned facts in the following passage. ‘ As the sacs of the permanent teeth advance, * the sockets of the temporary ones become en- ‘ larged, and little niches are formed in the in- ‘ ternal plate of the alveolar processes, answering ‘ to each socket, which are situated rather later- ‘ ally, that is to say, at a greater distance from ‘ the symphysis, or centre of the jaw, than the ‘ centre of each respective temporary socket. ‘ These niches do not penetrate so deep as to jOF THE TEETH. ‘ the bottom of the temporary sockets, but in- ‘ crease in proportion with the size of the per- ‘ manent sacs, and gradually form a distinct sock- ‘ et round each of them. ‘ There is, however, an opening left immediate- ‘ ly under the gum, through which the mem- ‘ branes of both sets of teeth continue to be con- ‘ nected. ’ The second set of teeth come forwards under the first set. The wisdom teeth begin to be formed about the eighth or ninth year, but do not appear until the twentieth or twenty-first year ; or sometimes until a later period of life. The teeth fill the jaws, by which the principal grinders are near to the condyles of the jaw, both for the sake of strength, and also that every part of the food may be manducated. Two sets are given, not merely as they last longer, but also to fill the jaw in its enlarged state j for the teeth could not grow like the soft bone. Before concluding this section', it may not be improper to call the attention of the reader to the very different sizes of the alveolar processes and teeth in different nations, of which plates XIX. and XX. afford very strong examples. Changes in Ihe Teeth and Jaws in advanced JJfe. Ihe teeth, in persons far advanced in life, are worn down by manducation ; the enamel is worn26 OUTLINIiS OF ANATOMY. olF the bases of the teeth ; yet the bony part of the teeth continues to live ; and, after the points are worn down, the enamel at the sides acts like the enamel in the teeth of a graminivorous animal, and keeps the tooth sharp. The molares of persons advanced in life are generally shed before the incisors, showing what kind of food is fittest for the old. Of the variety of the Jaw at different periods of Life. There is perhaps no bone in the human body which, during the progress of life, undergoes a greater alteration in its figure than the under jaw bone. These changes in the shape of the jaw are in a great measure owing to the teeth. * Before the appearance of the teeth, the jaws are proporlioimUy shorter than in animals fully grown, which has a considerable dfect on the Facial LINE, j- • The jaws in an infant are not only shorter, but also not so deep as in the adult. * Vid. Plate 24th. f For a full account of die Facial line, vid. Dr Camper on the Connexion between the science of Anatomy, and the arts of Painting and Sculpture, translated by Dr Cogan, London, 1794. In the same book, the differences in the form of the skull, at different periods of life, are very fully and accurately explained.27 OF THE TEETH. It has been stated, that in a child at birth the depth of the jaw is about the seventh part of that of the head ; at the age of', thirty, it measures somewhat less than the fifth part. As the teeth advance, the posterior angle of the jaw is pushed back, and becomes more nearly a right angle; and the posterior part of the rising branch, which was at first very oblique, becomes straight. From what has been said respecting the teeth, it is obvious, that as the incisor teeth and grind- ing teeth of the child are at first in immediate contact; that the jaw must grow rapidly in order to make room for the eye teeth ; and, as the grinding teeth of the second set are more nume- rous than those of the first, the jaws must extend very much between the coronoid process and the grinders of the first set, to make way for the grinders of the second set: hence we find, that the jaws are in a constant state of growth until the twentieth year, in order to make room for the addition of the wisdom teeth. When the teeth fall out, the alveolar processes disappear in the upper, as well as in the under jaw. We sometimes observe an osseous network which fills up some of the alveolar processes; and the distance betw’een the bony palate and th? chin becomes much less. When the jaws are shut as in plate 23d, the under jaw projects considerably beyond the up- per. The posterior angle becomes more obtuse^ because.it is not pushed back by the teeth ; and,23 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. the condyle becomes lower in respect to the coro- noid process ; and hence the anterior part of the under jaw is carried so far forward, and does meet the upper jaw, excepting at the back of the mouth, where the greatest force can be employed during mastication. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXIII. This plate represents the skull of an old man, to point out the remarkable form of the upper and under jaw bones in very advanced life. A. The upper jaw. B. The angle of the under jaw. C. The anterior part of the under jaw project- ing beyond the upper jaw. D. The styloid process of the temporal bone, which is longer than usual.29 OF THE TEETH* Authors 071 the Slructu7'e and Diseases of the Human Teeth. Eustachii, Dc Dentibus. Albini, Annot. Academ. lib. II. Leidae Batav. 1737. J. Hunter’s Natural History of the Human Teeth- London, 1771. iluspiur. Treatise on the Teeth, their stmcture and diseases. London, 1771. Blake, Disputatio Medica Inauguralis de dentium for- inatione in homine et variis animalibus. Edinburgi, 1798. Fox’s Natural History of the Human Teeth. London, 1803. For an account of the means employed by savage nations to alter the form of the Teeth, see Churchill’s Collection of Voyages, vol, v. Forrest’s Voyage to New Guinea. I Marsden’s History of Sumatra. Hawkesworth’s Ahiyages, vol. iii. p. 349.30 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY^ Sect. II. OF THE os HYOIDES. The Os Hyoides, * which is situated horlzon- ^ally between the root of the tongue, and the Larynx. It is properly enough named Hyoides, from the resemblance it bears to the Greek letter v;'and may, for a, clearer demonstration of its structure, be distinguished into its Body, Cornua, and Appendices. The body is the middle broad part, convex be- fore, and hollow behind. The convex fore part Is divided into two, by a ridge, into the middle of which the Mylo-hyoidei, and into the sides the Slylo-hyoidei muscles are inserted. Above the ridge, the bone is horizontal, but pitted in the middle by the insertion of the two Genio-hyoidei muscles, and a little^ hollowed more laterally by the Basio- glossi. Below the ridge it is convex, but a little flatted in the middle by the Stermodiyoidei, and pitted more externally by the Coraco-hyoidei. The concavity behind faces backwards and downwards to receive the Thyroid cartilage, when the Larynx and the Os hyoides are pulled towards each other by the action of the Sterno-hyoidei and Hyothy- roidei muscles; and to its upper edge, the liga- * Hypsyloides, Lambdoldes, ipx^vyfeTi^ey, os gutturis, os lingux, os morsus Adami, assessor, os hude, bicoriie.3^ OF THE TEETH. mentous membranes of the Epigloltis, tongue, and Thyroid cartilage, are fixed. The Cornua of the * Os hyoides are stretched backwards from each side of its body, where often a small furrow points out the former separation ; for in young fubjefts, the body and Cornua are not one continued substance, as they come after- wards to be in adults. These Cornua are not al- ways streight, nor of equal length ; their two plain surfaces stand obliquely sloping from above outwards and downwards. Into the external, the * Cerato-glossus is inserted above, and the Thyro- hyoideus muscle below ; and to the one behind, the ligamentous membrane of the tongue and Larynx adheres. Each of the Cornua becomes gradually smaller, as it is extended from the base ; but ends in a round tubercle, from which a move- able cartilage stands out, which is connected to the upper process of the Carlilago Thyroidea. Where the body of the Os hyoides joins on each side with its Cornua, a small styliform process, called Appendix, j- rises upwards and backwards, into which the Musculi Stylo-hyoidei alteri, and part of the Hyo-glossi muscles are fixed. From each of them a ligament is sometimes extended to the Styloid processes of the temporal bones, to keep the Os hyoides from being drawn too much forwards or downwards. The part of this liga- * Crura, Latera inferiora. ■f Crura superlora, Latera superiora, Os9a graniformia. I32 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. ment next to these processes sometimes forms into several cartilages, which afterwards ossify in old people. Ruijsch * fays that he has seen this ossi- fication continued as far up as the styloid process- es, which were iherefore joined to the Os h^oides by Anchylosis. The substance of the Os hyoides is cellular, but covered with a firm external plate, which is of sufficient strength to bear the actions of so many muscles as are inserted into it. It is not articulated with any bone of the body, except by means of the muscles and ligaments mentioned. The use of the Os hyoides is to serve as a solid lever for the muscles to act with, in raising or depressing the tongue and Larynx', or in enlarg- ing and diminishing the capacity of the Fauces. At birth, this bone is in a cartilaginous state ; excepting a small point of bone in the middle of its body, and in each of the Cornua. The Ap- pendices frequently remain cartilaginous many years, f * Advers. Anat. Dec. 3. § 9. \ The above description of the Os hyoides is taken from the Osteology of Dr Moxro primus.OF THE SOFT PAIiyS OF THf: MOUTH. SS Sect. III. OF THE SOFT PARTS OF THE MOUTH AND ITS APPENDAGES. In a former part of this book, the structure of the upper and under jaws, which form the bony part of the cavity of the mouth, has btjen explain- ed ; and therefore, we now proceed to the de- scription of the softer parts, namely, to that of the Lips and Cheeks, which form the fore part of the mouth and its sides, and the other parts con- , tained within the mouth. Connected with the mouth, there are muscles for performing the compound motion of the low- er jaw ; there are glands which secrete mucus and the saliva ; and at the back part of the mouth there is a moveable muscular membranaceous arch, which assists in guiding the bolus of food into its passage towards the stomach, and opposes its return through the nostrils. Within the mouth, there is the tongue, an instrument of speech, the organ of taste, and which also assists in deglutition. A musculo- inembranous sac communicates with the posterior part of the mouth, which serves the double office of giving passage to the air into the lungs, and of giving passage to the prepared aliment, before it reaches the gullet; and at the tgp of the wind- pipe, there are musides w'hich moderate the air C VOL. II.34 OUTLINES OF ANATOMV”* in its passage to the lungs, producing different sounds. Such being the varied purposes of the parts of the mouth, we should at first sight suppose, that the functions of these could not be performed without interfering with each other; and yet, there is only one instance of interference, viz. hi sucking and breathing; and hence the neces- sity of a passage for air through the nostrils, into the lungs, whilst the lips are closely applied to the nippje. The lips and cheeks, which extend from the cheek bones, upper jaw, and front of the nose, to cover the teeth, are composed of skin, cellular substance, fat, muscles, glands, and hairs. In the lips, there is a much smaller proportion of fat than in the cheeks; hence these are near- ly of the same thickness at all times of life. The fat collected in the cheeks may tend, not only to facilitate the movements of the muscles, but also I to defend the mucous and salivary glands. The lips and cheeks are lined by a soft, vascu- lar, mucous membrane, which forms the frscna of the lips j and then, becoming somewhat firmer, forms the gums, by means of which the teeth are secured in iheir sockets. The cheeks and lips are largely supplied with blood ; and, after their bloodvess'els have been successfully filled, a number of pointed bodies may be observed on the lips, which project from their surface, and have been called Villi. The35 ■OF THE PALATE. gums are spongy, and of a red colour, from the quantity of blood they receive. Sect. IV. OF THE PALATE. The roof of the mouth has been called Pa- late. The palate is made up of hard and soft parts. In the erect posture it is placed horizontally. The bony part of the palate consists of the pa- latine processes of the superior maxillary bones, and of the palate bones; and these form, in the adult, a bony arch, which is covered by a mem- brane marked by transverse lines, and divided longitudinally ; which membrane, at different pe- riods of life, varies much as to its thickness, be- ing in the infant thick before the teeth appear, and opposing their protrusion ; and in advanced old age, when the teeth have dropped out, it be- comes still thicker. The mouth is bounded behind by a musculo- membranous partition, called the Soft Palate, or Velum Palati; which is fixed to the proper'pa- late bones, and is suspended from the middle of these over the basis of the tongue. The in- ferior part of it is loose ; and from the centre of it, the conical shaped body called Uvula, which C 236 OUTLINES or ANATOMT. is of various lengths, and peculiar to Man and lo Simias, takes its rise. The lateral edges of the palate are subdivided into two musculo-membranous folds, the anterior of which is fixed to the base of the tongue ; and the other is fixed to the side of the pharynx; and between these folds the Tonsils are placed. Muscles imbedded within the arches of the pa- late, compress the tonsils during deglutition, and press out their contents. Sect. V. OF THE TONSILS. The Tonsils are grey-coloured and soft glandt, somewhat of an oval shape, and various in size, commonly about the size of an almond, w'ith se- veral openings on the surface, leading into cells within the substance of the glands, which are lined by the membrane of the mouth. The tonsils secrete, in the healthy state, a transparent mucus; which, when in a morbid state, assumes a white colour; in inflammatory cases giving the appearance of a sloUgh. There are also a number of small mucous glands distributed over the back of the tongue, velum pendulum palati, uvula, and in the vicinity of the tonsils.OF THE TONGUE. S7 • Sect. VI.' OF THE TONGUE. The Tongue is not only an organ of taste and -speech, but also constitutes.a part of the organs of deglutiuion. It is firmly supported by the bone called Os Hyoides. The tongue has been divided, by anatomists, into three parts, viz. a base, body, and point; and into two surfaces, an upper and under. The tongue is connected by a doubling of the skin called Fr(tnwn Linguce ; and its sides are fixed to the styloid processes, and to the lower jaw by ligaments. There is a line which runs in a longitudinal di- rection along the tongue ; and towards the root of this organ there is an oval-shaped depression, called, after Morgagni, Foramen Ccecum ilfor- gagni. The tongue is covered by a cuticle, which forms sheaths for its papillse, by corpus inucosum and cutis vera. The Papillae of the tongue, on account of their size, have been arranged into three classes. The Painllce Maximce^ or Lcnticulares, which are perforated in the middle, occupy the base of the tongue, and are small salivary glands. The PapillcE Medlar or SemilentindareSf whichOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 38 are supported on a small stalk, are scattered over the middle of the upper surface of the tongue. The Papilke Mimrnco, or Coniccc, are found chiefly at and near to the point of the tongue. The tongue is made up chiefly of muscles. The middle of it by the muscle called Lingualis ; the upper and lateral parts by the muscles called Stylo-glossi; and the lower part ■ by the Genio- glossi. The tongue is very largely supplied with blood by the branches of the Arteria Ranina; and it receives nerves from three different sources. The branches of the fifth pair are distributed upon the point of the tongue ; those of the ninth pair of nerves upon the sides of the tongue ; and those of the eighth supply the basis. Sect. VII. OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. These are very numerous, and have been di- vided into two classes, viz. into the large and small. The larger salivary glands are, the Paro- tid, the Submaxillary, and Sublingual Glands ; and are so placed as to be compressed during manducation. The Parotid Gland occupies the space between the meatus auditorius externus mastoid process, and the angle of the lower jaw; and, stretch-39 OF THE PAROTID GLAND. ing - across the face, in part covers the mas- seter muscle, becoming there much thinner in its substance ; and it sends down a process which is in contact with the inferior maxillary gland. The form of this gland is oval; and somewhat flat- tened before and behind, and lengthened out from above downwards. The parotid gland is covered by the skin, and by some fibres of the platysma my- oides, and by a white membrane which envelops the substance of the gland ; and the external ca- rotid artery passes through the substance of the gland, dividing, within it, into three branches. Behind, we find the mastoid process; the ster- no-cleido-mastoid muscle, which covers the pos- terior part of the gland; a little deeper the digas- tric muscle; and, under it, the external carotid * artery. From the upper part of the gland, the large duct arises. . This gland, in the adult, is of a white colour, inclining to red. In the foetus it is much redder, and divided into a number of small parts, which have a soft and delicate texture. There is an accessory gland, situated close to the external border of the masseter, and along ' the upper border of the duct of the parotid. • This accessory gland does not always exist. Sometimes it sends out its peculiar ducts, w'hich unite with that of the Parotid. It is in colour and consistence like the Parotid,♦0 OUTLINES OF ANATGMT. This is a gland of the conglomerate kifld^ con- sisting of a number of distinct lobes, detached from each other, and united by a cellular sub- stance ; and each lobe is composed of a great number of small parts, or grains. It very rarely happens that much fat is connect- ed with this gland. Around the gjand there are several lymphatic glands. ' . ‘ Of the Duels of (he Farotid Gland. Each lobule of the gland sends out a small duct. These smaller ducts uniting, form the large duct, which arises from the anterior border of the upper part of this gland. The duct takes a horizontal direction over the masseter muscle. Having crossed over the anterior part of the masseter, it then is enveloped in the fat of the cheeks, and pierces the Buccinator muscle, and the internal membrane of the mouth, opposite to the space between the second and third grinder of the upper jaw. Morgagni has described the duct, as passing oblique antrorsum descendens. ? Steno describes it as passing horizontally through the Buccinator muscle obliquely, between the fibres of the Buccinator. The diameter of the duct is but small in pro-41 OF the submaxillary gland. portion to its bulk, as the duct has very thick coats. The canal of the dud is nearly cylindrical, and has two coats.' The external is formed of a dense cellular substance, on the inner side of which there is a mucous membrane. There are many branches of the temporal artery distributed upon the parotid gland ; and it receives nerves from the portio dura of the seventh pair. Of the Sulnnaxtllary Gland. This gland is smaller than the Parotid, some- what of an oval figure, and situated between the inner surface of the side of the jaw, the Mylo- hyoid and Digastric muscle. This gland is sometimes continued near to the angle of the jaw; and is sometimes connected with the lower end of the Parotid. This gland also joins the Sublingual behind the posterior part of the Mylo-hyoid muscle. The duct of this gland, which arises from its upper and fore part, is large, and has thin coats. The duct passes between the Mylo-hyoideus and Genio-glossus muscles, along the under and inner edge of the Sublingual gland, and perforates the membrane of the mouth, at the side of the Frsenum Linguce; and is accompanied by the lingual branch of the inferior Maxillary Nerve.OUTLIKES OF ANATOMY. Of the Sublingual Gland. The Sublingual gland is situated under the an- terior part of the tongue, above the duct of the inferior Maxillary gland, between the Mylo-hyoi- deus and Genio-glossus muscles. The upper part of the gland projects into the mouth. The ducts of this gland open into the duct of the Submaxillary gland, or a little to the outside of the Frjenum Linguae. A duct similar to the duct of the Submaxillary gland, sometimes o- pens in the side of the duct of the Submaxillary gland. The smaller Salivary glands are placed in the lips, cheeks, tongue, and palate; and are of va- rious sizes, in different individuals, Chemical Analysis of the Saliva. Saliva appears to be a solution, in a large quan- tity of water, of albumen, mucus, and certain sa- line substances, compounds of phosphoric and muriatic acids ; with soda, ammonia, and lime. The proportions are conjectured by Dr Bostock to be about eighty of water, and eight of coagu- lated albumen j eleven of mucus, and one of saline compounds. * * Vide Murray’s Chemistry, third edition, vol. 4th, p. 537.43 -OF THE PIIARYMX. ^ Sect. VIIL OF THE PHARYNX. The Pharynx is a musculo*membraneous bag, of a conical figure, and fituated behind the tongue and posterior nostrils, upon the bodies of the cervical vertebrae, to which It is loosely connect- ed by a cellular substance. It is connected to the occipital and sphenoid bones above; to the gullet below ; and the larynx is placed before it; and, laterally, it is bounded by the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid bone, the cornua of the os hyoides, and by the carotid arteries and jugular veins. The Pharynx, through which the air passes into the lungs, and the food into the gullet, com- municates with the following parts, which may be readily seen by opening it from behind. By such a view are seen the oval shaped cavi- ties which lead into the nose ; the trumpet shaped opening of the Eustachian tube, which is encircled by cartilage, and therefore always kept open, placed at the communication between the nose and pharynx; the soft palate, with the isthmus fauciuM under it. The Epiglottis, covering the projecting larynx, is“connected with the root of the tongue at the fore part of the phar\mx. IOUTLINES OF ANATOMT. 44 Sect.IX. OF THE GULLET. The Gullet, or Oesophagus, is a musculo-mem- branaceous canal, connected loosely to the neigh- bouring parts, which extends between the pha- T)'nx and stomach, and between the fifth cervical and ninth dorsal vertebra. It is placed behind the wind-pipe, and between it and the vertebrae of the neck, inclining rather to the left side ; and, from the fifth to the ninth vertebra, it inclines rather to the right side, to make way for the aorta. AVithin the thorax, the gullet is lodged within the posterior mediastinum, from which its sides receive a covering. The gullet then inclines somewhat forwards from the spine, and passes through the cardiac opening of the diaphragm. In its collapsed state, it is nearly flat, both be- fore and behind j but when extended, it assumes nearly the form of a cylinder, excepting where it passes through the diaphragm, where it is some- what contracted. The Oesophagus has five coats. The external coat is cellular, and unites it to the spine behind, and to the trachea before. The second coat is composed of distinct fasci- culi of muscular fibres, * which follow a longi- ♦ Vide Plate XXIV.GF THE GULLET. 45 tudinal direction; and, within these there are much thinner muscular fibres, which describe portions of a circle around the gullet. These muscular coats are connected by loose bands of cellular substance to the innermost coat j so that the gullet, when divided, seems to be a double tube. The Innermost coat is a mucous membrane, and folded where the gullet is contracted ; f it is very dilatable ; and when the gullet is expanded, the folds difappear. Upon the surface of the innermost coat there are the orifices of a number of mucous glands, especially at the junction of the gullet with the stomach ; and also a net-work of small blood- vessels. t Vide Plate XXV. Vide Bleuland de sana ct morbosa Oesophagi strucn tura.iO ' outlines of anatomy. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXIV. This Plate represents the back part of the Pharynx and Gullet. A. A. Point out the oblique muscular fibres of the Constrictores Pharyngis. B. A small portion of muscular fibres which descend perpendicularly from the posterior part of the Pharynx to the upper and back part of the Gullet. This stratum of muscular fibres has not, as far as I know, been described or represented by any anatomical author. a. a. Point out the inner membrane of the Pharynx j the muscular fibres having been re- moved. C. C. Point out the longitudinal muscular fas- ciculi of the Gullet. D. D. The circular or second stratum of mus- cular fibres of the Gullet.* ON THE GULLET. I EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXV. . This Plate, which was published in my Thesis de Dysphagia, represents the termination of the Gullet in the ftomach. • The folds of the internal membrane .of the Gullet are seen, as also a while border around the end of the Gullet, which seem- ed to be formed by^the cuticle stopping at this place ; for I could not trace it along the villous coat pf the stomach. ^ It may not be^ improper to add, that Mr E. Home has lately Represented the cuticle of the Gullet nearly in the same manner. * * Fid. London Phil. Trans, for 1807, Part II. The re- presentations of the human stomach, and those of animals, are by far the best which have hitherto been published.OUTLINES OF ANATOaii'. 48 CHAPTER m. OF THE MUSCLES WHICH ARE SUBSERVIENT TO MASTICATION AND DEGLUTITION, Sect. I. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE DISPOSITION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE FORE PART OF THE HEAD. X'here Is considerable difficulty in exposing these muscles, as they are thin, mixed v/ith fat and cel- lular substances, incorporated with each other, and attached to the skin.' On the forehead is seen the frontal part of the Occipiio-Frontalis Mttscle; and a small part of that muscle which descends to the root of the nose. At the side of the head, there is a thin muscle which raises the ear, and covers the temporal mus- cles ; and before the ear, a small muscle, which pulls the ear forwards ; and around the eyeballs, the muscle called Orbicularis Palpebrarum oc- curs. Oh the cartilages affixed to the bones of the nose, and which form the Alas Nasi, a few thin.49 OF THE MUSCLES OF THE FACE. scattering fibres are placed, which form a muscle, called, from its office. Compressor Nariuml Arising from the side pf the nose, and superior maxillary bone, there is a thin muscle passing down to be fixed into the upper lip,- and which has been named from its office the Levatoi' Labri Superioris Aloeque Nash , * , There are three fmall mufcles which pass ob- liquely downwards and inwards, to be fixed to the corners of the mouth. Two of these have been named, from their origins from the Zygoma; Zygomatici; and the third has been named,- from its office. Levator Anguli Oris. , There is a triangular shaped muscle which arises from the side of the chin, and which is fix- ed into the corner of the mouth, which has been named from its office the Depressoi' Anguli Oris. There is a muscle, of the figure of an oblong square (which is in part covered by the under part of the preceding muscle), which ascends from the chin, and is fixed into the under lip, and has been named from its office Depressor Labii Inferioris. The two last muscles are in part covered by a few thin muscular fibres of a thin muscle of the neck, called the Platysma Myoides. There are a few fibres passing transversely from. one platysma rriyoides to the other, which have been described by Santorini under the name Transt'ei'sus Menti, The muscular fibres which pass around the VOL. ri. D50 OUTLINES OF AN ATOM V. mouth, and which have been said to form the Orbicularis or Sphyncter Oris, are also obvious. Second Layer, \ Under the portion of the Occipito-Frontalis Muscle, which is fixed into the superciliary ridge, a small rounded muscle is placed, which is fixed into the middle of the superciliary ridge, which has been called Corrugator SuperciUi. The Temporal muscle is seen in the temples, and its tendon passing under the Zygoma. A strong muscle, extending downward from the Zygoma to the angle of the under jaw, called from its very powerful effeft in manducation, Masseter, is dis- tinctly seen. The muscle called Buccinator, extending be- tween the Masseter and Orbicidaris Oris, is seen ; the fat, and that part of the parotid gland which covered it, being removed. Under the Levator Labii supetioris, there are a few scattering fibres, which Soemmering has noticed (vid. his third vol. p. 102.) as a muscle, under the name 6f Musetdus Anoynalus Maocillce superioris. The Levator AnguU Om is now seen arising from the superior maxillary bone, and fixed into the corner of the mouth. / Third Layer, In this third layer,’ Albinus has represented the insertion of the muscle which draws the eye-51 OF THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER JAW, bail towards the nose, and which therefore has been called Adductor Oculi; and the insertion of the muscle which raises the eyeball, and which has therefore been called Levator Oculi, and the Obliquus Inferior OcuU<, is also imperfectly seen. On the side of the Coronoid process of the under jaw, next the mouth, a part of the Ptery~ goidcus supei'ior muscle comes into view. I shall describe, in Classes,' more particularly^ all the above muscles. Section II. .1 . j * . MUSCLES WHICH MOVE THE LOWER JAW. The under jaw is elevated and moved laterally by the Temporo-Maxillaris inferior, the Jugo- Maxillaris, and the Pterygoid muscles. The power of these muscles is very great, even in the human body, of which' many striking ex- amples are to be found in the Works of Vesa- Lius and Haller. In carnivorous animals, these muscles are of a much greater thickness and strength. € • • , _ Temporo-Maxillaris Inferior, or Temporal Muscle. This muscle takes Its origin from its Aponeu- rosis, and from the Temporal Fossa, formed by the Os Frontis, Temporis, Sphenoides, Malse, by ra- D ?.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. diated fleshy fibres, which, as they descend, be- come thicker, and which pass under the Zygoma, filling up the space between it and the Temporal bone; and also from the inner surface of the Zygoma. This muscle is fixed into the cofonoid process of the under jaw, by the medium of a tendon/ which envelops the coronoid process; The muscle is covered by a thick tendinous aponeurosis, which is connected with the Tem- jjoral ridge, the superior edge of the Zygoma, and outer edge of the Orbit* The above muscle elevates the under jaw ; but it may act with its anterior or posterior fibres in drawing the tinder jaw backwards or forwards. e Ztgomato-Maxillaris, or MasseteVf Is a thick strong muscle, which covers and deeply imprints the side of the under jaw-bone. It takes its origin from the superior Maxilla, and from the inner edge of the Zygoma; and is fixed into the side and angle of the under jaw. The fibres of the different parts of this muscle cross each other j the outer part slants back- wards, and the inner part forwards, so that the fibres in a degree decussate one another. This muscle concurs with the former in elevat- ing the under jaw. The outer part of it also affifts in pulling the jaw forwards;OF THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER JAW. *73 The lateral movements of the under jaw are performed by the Pterygoidei muscles. Pterygo-Maxillaris Minor, Superior, or Pterij- goideus ExternuSy Takes its rise from'the outer side of the Ptery- goid Plate of the Sphenoid bone, from the tuber- osity of the superior Maxillary bone, and from the root of the Temporal process of the Sphenoid bone ; and it passes horizontally, and is fixed into the neck and capsular ligament of the under jaw. This muscle pulls the jaw laterally ; and if it be thrown into action with its fellow, the jaw is pulled forwards, by which the fore teeth of the under jaw project before those of the upper jaw. Pterygo-Maxillaris Major, Inferior, or Ptei'y- goideus Intcrnus. This muscle takes its rise from the Fossa Pte- rygoidea of the Sphenoid bone, and from the Palate bone, and is fixed into the inner side of the angle of the under jaw, being placed nearly opposite to the Masseter muscle, to which, in figure, it bears some resemblance. This is a powerful muscle in masticating the food ; it gives the lateral motion of the jaw ; and, when thrown into action, in conjunction with its fellow, the jaw-bone is elevated, Mastoido-Mentalis, or Digastricus. This is a double muscle ; one part of it arises from the groove at the root of the Mastoid pro*5t OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. J cess of the Temporal bone, and, descending ob- liquely downwards and inwards through the fibres of the Stylo-hyoid muscle, it is connected to the Os Hydides by a thin ligament. It then passes obliquely upwards and outwards at an obtuse angle, and is fixed into the middle of the lower jaw at its lower part. By this muscle, the mouth is opened j and when the jaws are shut, the Os Hyoides is drawn towards the under jaw ; and the posterior part of the muscle draws the' Os Hyoides towards the Mastoid process of the Temporal bone. Dr Soemmering has stated, that if the lower jaw be fixed, this muscle tends to depress the back of the head upon the spine, and thereby to opeii the mouth, by elevating the upper jaw ; this he states he has observed while a child is sucking. There are some of the muscles which are fixed to the Os Hyoides, and under jaw, and also to the thorax, as the Platysma Myoides : But as these muscles are subservient to other purposes, they shall be mentioned in another place. ‘ t..t i i.*. • Section III. MUSCLES OF THE CHEEKS AND LIPS. There are ten muscles, which are proper to the * I : t ! - ^ lips and cheeks. • ’ < .OF THE MUSCLES OF THE CHEEKS AND LIPS. 55 The Labialis, or Orbicularis Oris. The fibres of this muscle, which are small, de- cussate each other at the corners of the mouth; so that this muscle seems to consist of two semi- circular muscles. The outer part of the muscle is formed of the fibres of all the Levatores Labii Superioris and Zygomatici. The internal fibres form the true Sphyncter Oris. This muscle shuts the mouth : it brings the lips into contact with each other, or with any substance put into the mouth, as in the act of suction. A part of this muscle forms the Nasalis Labii Superioris of Albinus. Zygomato-labiales Major and Minor, or the Zjjgomaticus Major and Minor, Arise from the convexity of the Os Malae, and descend obliquely forwards, and terminate in the corner of the mouth, where their fibres are in- corporated with those of the Depressor Anguli Oris. When the muscles of opposite sides act at the same time, they draw the corners of the mouth outwards, as in laughing.OUTLINES OF ANATOJnr. 56 The Super-Maxillo-Labialis Minor, or tlic Levator Anguli Orisy Arises from the upper jaw bone, immediately below the Foramen Infra-orbitarium; the fibres, of the muscle pass obliquely downwards, and out- wards to the corner of the mouth. This muscle raises the corner of the mouth. . “ ' 1 • Super-Maxillo-Labialis Major et Medius, or the Levator Labii Superioris Alceque Nasi. This muscle arises from the Nasal process of the upper jaw, and from that part of the bone be- low the orbit. ‘ ' , The muscle is fixed into the Ala Nasi, where It is united with the Compressor Narium, and into the upper lip. This muscle raises the upper lip, and the Ala Nasi, and thereby dilates the nostril. .1 . , i . . The Maxillo-Labialis Inferior, or the Depressor Anguli Oris. This muscle, which is of a triangular form, arises from the side of the under jaw ; it crosses the lower part of the Depressor Labii Inferioris, and becomes narrower as it ascends, and unites t in the corner of the mouth with the Zygomatic and Levator Anguli Oris. It depresses the corner of the mouth, as in ci7ing.- • •. ^OF THE MUSCLES OF THE LIPS. 57 The Mento-Labialis, or Depressor Lahii Inferioris. This muscle arises from the anterior, but chief- ly from the lateral part of the under jaw. The fibres of this muscle pass obliquely up- wards and inwards, till it joins its fellow in the middle of the lip ; and is fixed by a broad plate of muscular fibres into .the under lip. This muscle opens the mouth, by deprefling the under lip. Levator Mentis or Levator Lahii Liferioris, Arises from the alveolar processes of the incisor and canine teeth of the lower jaw, and termi- nates in the under lip and skin of the chin. The use of this muscle is, to raise the under lip when it has been depressed ; and it also cor- rugates the chin, and turns ojitwards the lip. Depressor Lahii Superioris et Aloe Nasi. This small muscle arises from the alveolar pro- cesses of the incisor and canine teeth of the up- per jaw ; and it is fixed into the upper lip and root of the wing of the nose. This muscle draws the upper lip downwards. This Bucco-Labialis, or Buccinator. muscle covers the membrane of the cheek.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 5S It arises from the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone, and from the space between the last grinder and coronoid process of the lower jaw. The fibres of the muscle are transverse in respect to the face ; and they terminate in the or- bicularis muscle in the corner of the mouth. This muscle draws the angle of 'the mouth backwards, and corrugates the cheek; hence is employed in expelling the contents of the mouth, or in blowing wind instruments ; and it is also employed in preffing the cheek inwards, and in putting alimentary substances between the teeth. Sect. IV. MUSCLES OF THE PALATE. Tlie Pktro-Palatinus, or Levator Palali, This muscle arises from the point of the petrous part of the Temporal bone, from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, from which it descends, and is fixed into the middle of the soft palate, and root of the uvula. It draws the soft palate upwards during deglu- tition, so as to prevent the food from getting into the nose. Pterygo-Palatinus, or Ciramjlexus Palati. This muscle lyes along the pterygoid procefs, and spinous processes of the Sphenoid bone.OF THE MUSCLES OF THE PALATE. 59 It arises from the osseous part of the Eustachi- an tube, and the Internal pterygoid process ; and it then sends out a tendon, which revolves around the hook-like process of the internal pter)'goid process; and is then fixed into the middle of the velum palati, and os palati, by means of a broad membrane. This muscle expands the velum laterally, and also tends to depress it. Palato-Uvularis, or Azygos Uvula. This muscle is enclosed within the membrane of the Uvula. { It arises from the back part of the palate bones, and terminates in the Uvula, which it draws upwards. Glosso-Palatinus, or Comtrictor Isthmi Faucium. This muscle is contained within the anterior arch of the soft palate. It consists of a few thin muscular fibres, which arise from the side of the root of the tongue, and is fixed into the middle of the velum palati. This muscle shuts the o- pening into the fauces.' Phaeyxgo-Palatinus, or Palato-Pharyugeiis. This muscle is composed of a thin stratum of muscular fibres, which are covered by the mem- brane of the posterior fold of the soft palate.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 60 This muscle arises from the insertion of the circumflexus palati, and the root of the Uvula. This muscle is fixed into the middle constric- tors of the pharynx, and into the upper and back part of the thyroid cartilage. By these muscular fibres, the Velum and Uvula are drawn downwards, by which the passage into the nostrils is shut during deglutition ; and they also assist in propelling the food into the fauces. Sect. V. DISPOSITION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE FORE I’ART OF THE NECK. First Layer* Upon removing the skin and cellular sub- stance of the fore part of the neck, a thin tendi- nous membrane presents itself, under which there is a thin and broad muscle, which covers the greater part of the fore part of the neck j a part of the side of the face ; and a portion of the up- per part of the chest ; and which has been named riatysma Myoidcs, ‘ Second Layer. Under the Platysma Myoides, a strong muscle, extending obliquely upwards from the breast bone, and collar bone, to be fixed into the mastoid pro- cess of the temporal bone, Is seen, called Sterno- Cleldo-Mastoid Muscle.OF THE MUSCLES OF THE FORE PART OF THE NECK. 61 Covering a part of the trachea, may be seen the thin muscle arising from the breast-bone, and fixed into the os hyoides, called Stemo-Hyoideiis; and, higher up the neck, a part of a muscle which has passed under the sterno-cleido-mastoid mus- cle, which, from its origin from the scapula, and insertion into the os hyoides, has been called O7no-hyoideus. Third hayer. By removing the above mentioned muscles, the Thyroid and Cricoid cartilages of the larynx are seen j and, covering the fore part of the trachea, a muscle, which arises from the breast-bone, and is fixed into the thyroid cartilage of the larynx, and which has therefore been called Sterno-Thy~ roideus ; and also a muscle which arises from the thyroid cartilage, and is fixed into the os hyoides, and which has hence been named TIiyro»IJyoi- deus^ , Sect. VI. DISPOSITION OF THE MUSCLES OF TIlE OS HYOIDES AND TONGUE. To get a distinct view of the muscles of the os hyoides and tongue, the head should be thrown back, in order to put these muscles upon the stretch;OUTLINES or ANATOMV. 62 Firsf Layer. Upon the skin, cellular membrane, and tendi- nous aponeurosis being removed, the following muscles come into view. The anterior head of the Digastric Muscle, ex- tending between the symphysis of the lower jaw and os hyoides, and the posterior head of the same muscle passing through the Stylo-Hyoid Muscle, downwards and forwards, to be fixed to the os hyoides ; and between the two heads of the mus- cle, the submaxillary gland is placed. Second Layei\ Upon detaching the above named muscles, the thin and broad muscle, called Mylo-hyoidem comes into view, extending between the os hyoi- des, and a considerable portion of the under jaw. The stylo-glossus muscle also comes into view, arising from the styloid process of the under .jaw, and supported by its ligament, and paffing down- wards to be fixed into the tongue ; and a little below that muscle, another muscle, taking its rise also from the styloid process, and passing downwards to the pharynx, called hence Stylo- pharyngeus, comes into view. ^ Between the two preceding muscles and the Mylo-hyoideus muscle, there is the Hyo-glossus muscle, with its fibres passing nearly perpendi- cularly downwards to be fixed into the toiigue.;OF THE MUSCLES OF THE OS HYOIDES. 63 A part of the constrictores pharyngis Is alfo seen. Third Layer, Upon the preceding muscles being removed, the Gemo-hyoideus, passing betwixt the symphy- sis of the under jaw and os hyoides, appears; and on the side of it, next the pharynx, (suppos- ing the head to be viewed in the profile), the Ge7uo-hyo-glossus, Sect. VII. MUSCLES FOR MOVING THE OS HYOIDES. Maxillo-hyoideus, or Mylo-liyoideus. \ This thin, flat, and broad muscle arises from a . ridge on the inner side of the jaw, which extends between the chin and last grinding teeth. The fibres pass forwards and downwards, to the sym- physis of the jaw, and are fixed into the body of the os hyoides. There is a portion of tendon in the middle of the muscles, of opposite sides, extend- ing from the symphysis of the lower jaw, to the base of the os hyoides. This muscle elevates the os hyoides j and, when the os hyoides is fixed, it may depress the under jaw.OUTLINES or ANATOJfY. 64< Genio>hyoideus. This rounded muscle, which is placed under the former, passes from the symphysis of the under jaw obliquely downwards and backwards to the middle of the basis of the 03 hyoides. By this muscle, the os hyoides is elevated, and drawn forwards towards the chin, when the jaws are shut. Omo-hyoideus. This thin and flat muscle arises from the supe- rior Costa of the Scapula. It ascends obliquely forwards and inwards; and, when under the sterno-mastoid muscle, it is tendinous ; it again becomes fleshy, and is at length fixed into the lower margin of the base of the os hyoides. This muscle draws the os hyoides obliquely downwards and backwards. Sterno-HYoiDEus. This is a thin flat muscle, which arises from the outer part of the uppermost bone of the Ster- num, from the first rib and from the clavicle. It covers the surface of the Trachea ; and it is at length inserted into the middle of the lower edge of the basis of the Os Hyoides, between the insertions of the Omo-hyoidei muscles. Sterno-Tiiyroideus. » This muscle is placed behind the preceding65 OF THE MUSCLES OF THE OS HYOIDES. muscle, and its origins are the same as in the preceding one. It covers the Jugular vein, the Carotid artery, the Trachea, the Thyroid gland and its vessels. The muscle terminates in the wing of the Thy- roid Cartilage. Hyo-thyroideus. This muscle is the continuation of the preced- ing ; it arises from the wing of the Thyroid Car- tilage, and ascending, is fixed to the base and Cornu of the Os Hyoides. This, like the preceding muscle, draws towards each other the Os Hyoides and Larynx. * Stylo-hyoideus. This'muscle takes its rise from the Styloid pro- cess of the Temporal bone ; it descends obliquely downwards and forwards, and is fixed to the Cornu of the Os Hyoides at its junction with the body of the bone. The Digastric generally pass- es through this muscle. This muscle draws the Os Hyoides upwards and to one side. Sect. VIII. MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. The Tongue is chiefly composed of muscular fibres, for performing its varied movements ; and VOL. II. E06 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. there ig- no part of the body which exhibits a more remarkable instance of the variety, force, extent, velocity, and precision of muscular action. The Lingualis * is usually described as a ma&s of muscular fibres in the substance of the tongue, extending from the base to the point of the tongue, between the Hyo-glossus and Genio-glos- sus muscles. k may be proper to add, that this muscle is by no’ means well defined, for its fibres are much involved in the adjacent muscles. This muscle, which is fixed into the tip of the tongue, raises the tip of the tongue, and brings it backwards. Myoglossus Muscle. This muscle arises from the base, and one of the Cornua of the Os Hyoides, and terminates in the side of the tongue, near the Stylo-glossus. This muscle depresses the edge of the tongpe. Genio-hyoglossus Muscle. This muscle arises from the symphysis of the under jaw ; and its fibres pass in a radiated man- ner to be fixed to the point, middle, and apex of the tongue, and are intimately mixed with those of the Lingualis and Hyoglossus muscles. The muscle is also attached to the body of the Os * There is certainly an impropriety in this term, as the names of the ether muscles which move the tongue are of Greek origin.OF THE MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. 67 Hyoides. This muscle raises or depresses the tongue, moves it from one side to another, and draws the tongue forwards, so as to push it out of the mouth ; or pushes it backwards, or pulls it downwards. This muscle also pulls the Os Hyoides towards the Chin. Stylo-GLossus. This muscle takes its rise from the Styloid pro* cess of the Temporal bone, and is fixed into the side of the tongue, near to its point. This muscle draws the tongue to one side, and backwards. Besides the above muscles, there are a number of short fibres distributed through the substance of the tongue, which have been named and re- presented by Malpighi and Du VernEy under the names of Fibras Longitudinales, Transversal, Perpendiculares. These fibres may serve as auxiliaries to the pre- ceding muscles, or they may act separately ; and their action is limited to the particular part of the tongue where they are situated. E 2OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 68 Sect. IX. MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. The Pharynx is covered behind by a thin, though very distinct, stratum of muscular fibres, which follow an oblique course. Vide Plate XXIV. The fibres of the right and left sides meet to- gether in the middle, in a white longitudinal line. Anatomists who preceded Albinus, divided this stratum into eight muscles, which they nam- ed from their attachments, and described these as distinct muscles, under the names Cephalo-Pha- ryngei, Pterygo-pharyngei, Mylo-pharyngei, Glos- so-pharyngei, Hyo-pharyngei, Syndesmo-pharyn- gei, Thyro-pharyngei, and Crico-pharyngei. Modern authors have divided these into three muscles only, under the names of Constrictor Pharyngis Superior, Medius, and Inferior. As all these fibres have a similar insertion, and . are subservient to a similar purpose; I shall de- scribe them as one muscle only. The upper part of the Constrictor Pharyngis takes its origin from the basis of the Cranium, from the Jaws, Palate, and Root of the Tongue j and it surrounds the upper part of the Pharynx ; and the lower portion of the muscle arises from the Thyroid and Cricoid Cartilages of the Larynx, and passes forwards to meet with its fellow. This stratum of muscular fibres contracts upon th&OF THE MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. G9 bolus of food, and pushes it downwards Into the gullet. Stylo-pharyngeus. This muscle takes its origin from the Styloid process of the Temporal bone ; and, passing down- wards and forwards, is fixed into the side of the Pharynx, and into the back part of the Thyroid Cartilage of the Larynx. This muscle elevates and dilates the Pharynx, and also the Thyroid Cartilage. Engravings of the Mouth, Fauces, Fharynx, and Gullet, J. D. Santorini’s beautiful Plates, published by Gi- RARDi, of the Palate, Tongue, and Pharynx. Watt’s Anatomico-Chix'urgical Views of tlie Mouth, Larynx, and Fauces. London, 1809. Bleuland de Sana et Morbosa Oesophagi Structura. My Thesis de Dysphagia. Edinb. 1797,70 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Authors on the Muscles described in the last Section. Albini Historia Musculorum. Courceile’s Description o^'tjie Musejes of the Face. J. D. Santorini has published a good Description of the Muscles of the Face. Morgagni in his Adversaria Anat. has described witli much care the structure of the Tongue, and of jts Muscles. Engravings of the Muscles of the Face. Engravings of the Muscles of the Face have been published by the Authors above named, who have de- scribed the Muscles of the Face and Neck. Dr P. Camper, in his book on the Connexion be- tween Anatomy and the science of Drawing, &c. has represented the Muscles of the Face as thrown into ac- tion by the different passions. Lancisi, Anatomia per uso et inlelligenza del di- segno, ricercata non solo su gl’ ossi, e muscoli del corpo humano, ma demonstrata ancora su le Statue Antiche pin in^gne.' Roma, MDCXCI. Fol. ’ “ J. D. Santorini’s Plates of the Muscles of the Face, Palate, Tongue, and Pharynx, published after lys death , by Girardi, arc well worthy of the attention of the reader. In the celebrated picture of the Last Judgment, by Michael Angelo, there arc many wonderful specimens of expression. The Groupc of the Laocoon affords t]ie finest specimen extant J illustrating the effect of bodily pain upon the expression of the face, and indeed of the whole body. Scie the beautiful description of this Groupe, by Viscon- ti, in his Account of the Statues, &c. in the Museum of Bonaparte. '<?F ABDOMEN. CHAPTER IV. Sect. E OF THE ABDOMEN. J. HE Abdomen is that part of the body situated between the Chest and Pelvis. * The Abdomen is boun^d behind by the spine and muscles’of the loins, at its sides and in front, by muscles, which therefore have been called Ab- dominal Muscles. Above, by the muscle called Diaphragm ; and below, by the bony circle which forms the upper aperture of the Pelvis. In order to describe more accurately the situa- tion of the different bowels included within the Abdomen, anatomists have divided it into certain regions or compartments, by lines. They draw one line from the Cartilage of the eighth rib of one side, to the Cartilage of the same rib of the opposite side j the space above the middle of * I have omitted the word cavity, because there is no cavity of the Abdomen ; for the Parietes of the Abdomeq, and their contents, are in immediate contact, and constant- ly act and react upon each other. /7‘i OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. which line, viz. in the angle made by the meeting of the Cartilages of the Ribs with the Stomach, has been called the Epigastric region ; and the spaces on each side of that region the EIypo- CHONDRIAC REGION. They draw another line across the under part of the belly, between the anterior spinous process- es of the Ossa Innominata. The middle space above that line has been call- ed the Umbilical region, and the lateral spaces the Lumbar region ; and the middle space be- low that line has been named the Hypogastric region, and the lateral spaces the Iliac re- gions. Sect. II. OR THE muscles OF THE PARIETES OF THE ABDOMEN. In the fore and lateral parts of the Parictes of the Abdomen there are three distinct strata of muscles ; which being subservient nearly to the same purpose, I shall describe in the order in which they present upon dissection. Of the Superficial Fascia, Upon removing, with care, the skin of the bel- ly, a thin fascia, or rather membrane, presents itself, which has been said by some to take its rise only from the inferior part of the tendon of the External Oblique Muscle, and has been de- scribed by Camper.THE MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 73 Ic rarely exhibits a fibrous appearance in the adult ; and the fibres, when distinct, pass in a transverse direction with respect to the Aodomen. These fibres do not resemble tendinous fibres, be- ing neither to the eye glistening, nor communicat- ing to the touch the same dense feeling as tendon. This membrane is proportionally thicker in the foetus. This fascia, which has always appeared to me to consist chiefly of condensed Cellular substance, covers the Spermatic Cord and round ligament of the Uterus, and also some of the Inguinal glands of the upper and under cluster ; a'nd may, in some subjects, at the upper part of the thigh, be divided into layers, between which some small Lymphatic glands are placed. In a few cases, it may be readily traced for six or eight inches down the thigh. This membrane, in some cases of Scrotal Her- nia, attains a very considerable thickness ; in others, it adheres so intimately to the Hernial Sac, that it is impossible to separate the one from the other. Of the CosTo-ABDOMiNALis, oi* External Oblique Muscle of the Abdomen, This muscle originates by eight, sometimes by nine heads, which are in some measure like to right angles, from the eight or nine lowest ribs, and not at a great distance from the cartilaginous parts of the ribs.74 OUTLINES OP ANATOMY. The upper head adheres to the origins of the Serratus Amicus Major, and the lower to the Latissimus Dorsi. All the heads adhere to the neighbouring In- tercostal muscles. The different heads of the Oblique muscle are greater in breadth than in thickness. The fibres of the muscle proceed obliquely for- wards and downwards, and terminate in a thin tendinous Aponeurosis. The upper part of the muscle passes transverse- ly across the body, and is connected by its tendon to the lower part of the larger Pectoral muscle. Where the tendon of this muscle is united with that of the subjacent muscle, there is a curved white line visible, which has been called Linea Semilunaris. The tendons of the External Oblique muscles of opposite sides unite with each other, and form a distinct white line in the middle of the body, which extends from the Cartilago Ensiformis to the Pubes. The Linea Alba has therefore been described as the place where the one External 'Oblique muscle is inserted into the other. The larger fibres of the tendinous Aponeurosis attached to the lower portion of the External Ob- lique muscle, descend obliquely inwards and down- wards; are disposed in a parallel manner in respect to each other ; and between these there is a much phinner tendinous substance." The larger tendinous fibres of the External Ob-EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE OF THE ABDOMEN. 75 Kque muscle are united together by means of many thin tendinous fibres, which take their rise from the Crural Arch. These smaller connecting fibres are by no means equally manifest in every instance, being in some persons very small and flattened ; but in others, distinct, thick, and rounded cords; and, in Her- nia, sometimes become very large, and make a distinct impression on the Hernial Sac. * Sometimes these connecting fibres are entirely wanting. The under part of the tendon of the External Oblique muscle, stretched between the anterior su- perior spinous process of the Ilium, and the Sym- physis Pubis, is thicker and stronger than any other part of it, and somewhat rounded, espe- cially towards the Ossa Pubis, and has been de- scribed under the name of Poupart’s Ligament; and more Jately it has been called by anatomists Crural Arch^ as it extends over the flexor muscles, great blood-vessels, and nerves of the thigh. This under part of the tendon was formerly .supposed to be attached only to the anterior su- perior spinous process of the Ilium, and the liga- ment of the Symphysis Pubis. Mr Gimbernat has, however, shown, that the tendon is doubled inwards, and forms a canal for the Spermatic Cord in'the male, and for the Roun^i Ligament of the female Uterus. * Vid. Plates of Inguinal Herniac by Camper.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 76 Poupart^s Ligament, or the Crural Arch, iV sometimes double, I have seen two such liga- ments on each side. When that is the case, the one ligament is generally fixed about a line above the tubercle of the Pubes, and the other is found in its usual situation. About an inch, or a little more, from the Sym- physis Pubis, the tendon of the External Oblique muscle is generally divided into an upper and un- der column; but in some instances, the division takes place at a greater distance from the Sym- physis Pubis. Between the tendinous columns, which are connected at the upper part by a few transverse tendinous fibres, a space intervenes, which is somewhat of an oval figure, which has been commonly called the Spermatic Ring; but this term conveys an inaccurate idea of the form of this aperture, and it should be called Inguinal, or Abdominal Aperture, and with the addi- tion of the word Under, to distinguish it from the Upper Inguinal or Abdominal Aper- ture. Through the Under Abdominal Aperture, the Spermatic Cord passes ; and in the female, the round ligament of the Uterus : and there is no direct opening into the Abdomen, the passage being shut up by|the Internal Oblique, and Trans- verse muscles, and by the Fascia Transversalis. The Under Abdominal Aperture in the male is somewhat curved above, angular below.EXTERNAL OBLIgUE MUSCLE OF THE ABDOMEN. 77 and directed obliquely downwards and Inwards; and the sides of it are thicker than its upper or under part, being formed of the straight fibres of the tendon; whereas, the thinner tendinous sub- stance, which connects the thicker fibres of the tendon, forms the upper part of the aperture. In the male, the >Under Inguinal Aperture is about an inch in length ; but in the female, it is rather longer, and also narrower. To the upper column of the tendon of the Ex- ternal Oblique muscle, which forms the Under Abdominal Aperture, a thin portion of ten- don is fixed, which passes downwards, and is at- tached to the Gluteus Maximus and Triceps Ad- ductor muscle of the thigh, which has also been observed by Camper, and represented by him in one of his excellent plates of Hernia : this, by embracing the Spermatic Cord, proves in some measure a barrier against Hernia. The upper part of the tendon of the External Oblique muscle, passes obliquely downwards and inwards, and is in part fixed to the ligament of the Symphysis Pubis of the same side, and also to that part of the ligament of the opposite side, decussating in its course the tendinous fibres of the External Oblique of the opposite side, so that some of the tendinous fibres of the right side ter- minate in the left Os Pubis. The portion of the tendinous Aponeurosis form- ing the under part of the Under Abdominai.78 OUTLINES OF ANATOMT< A PERTURB,is folded under the Spermatic Cord, and round ligament of the female'; and passes in- wards, and is inserted into the Spinous process of the Os Pubis, and Linea Ilio-pectinea, (a term used by my Grandfather in his Osteology), for the space of about an inch, or a little more. Some have described this insertion of the un- der column as a distinct ligament. In the erect posture, this part of the tendon of the External Oblique is placed almost horizontal- ly, and is much deeper than the upper part of the tendon. The upper and under parts of the tendon of the External Oblique muscle are widely different in another respect: The upper and outer is a thick rounded cord, extending from the spine of the Os Ilium to the tubercle and symphysis of the Pubes : the under is reflected backwards and in- wards, and is extended over the femoral blood- vessels ; and its posterior edge is very thin. The Crural blood-vessels. Lymphatics of the mferior extremities, the internal Iliac and Psoas muscles, and the protruded bowels, in cases of Crural Hernia, pass behind the Crural Arch. f Ilio-abdominalis Medius, or OUiquus Ahdominh Inta-nus. This muscle arises from the spine of the Ilium, by a thin tendon common to the Serratus Posti- cus Inferior, and the Latissimus Dorsi j from theMUSCLES or THE PAHIETES OF THE ABDOMEN. 79 three lowest Lumbar Vertebrae, and from the in- ner side of the Crural Arch. From these origins the fibres describe a radiated course upwards; and at the Linea Semilunaris, the tendon is fixed to the muscle, which divides into two layers ; one of W'hich joins that of the External Oblique, and forms the fore part of the sheath of the Rectus muscle; the other joins that of the Transverse > muscle, and goes behind the Rectus, forming the posterior part of the sheath, till about half way between the Navel and Os Pubis. . This muscle is fixed into the Linea Alba, the Cartilages of the False Ribs, and the Cartilage Ensiformis. Lumbo-abdominalis, or Transversns Abdominis. This muscle arises from the inner side of Pou- part’s Ligament, from the back part of the spine of the Ilium, from the inner surface of the six lower Ribs, and from the transverse processes of the four uppermost Vertebrae of the Loins. The fibres of this muscle run transversely a- cross the Abdomen, and are fixed into the Linea Alba and Ensiform cartilage of the Sternum. Stebno-pubalis, or Rectus Abdominis. This muscle arises from the Cartilages of the three undermost True Ribs, and extremity of the Breast bone. It forms a broad flat muscle, which is disposed in a parallel manner to the Linea AI-so OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, ba: and it is at length fixed into the fore and upper part of the Os Pubis. In its course'to the Umbilicus, three tendin- ous lines pass across it; and between the Navel and the Ossa Pubis, there is a portion of tendon which extends only half way across the muscle. PuBio-suB-UMBlLiCALis, OT Pijramidalts. This muscle is named Pyramidal from its shape. The base of the pyramid is connected to the up- per part of the Symphysis Pubis ; and the apex of it is fixed into the Linea Alba, about half way between the Navel and Ossa Pubis. The muscles of the Parietes of the Abdomen, besides compressing the hollow bowels included within them, and also the bowels of the Pelvis ex- pelling their contents, tend to bend the body to a side, and draw the Ribs directly downwards; or, if the Thorax be fixed, the Pelvis is drawn up- wards: by their continued action, the heels may be thrown over the head. It may be proper to add, that the Internal Oblique muscle of the right side cooperates in its adion with the External Ob- lique of the left side. The tendinous sheath of the Sterno-pubalis preserves that muscle in its proper place when the body is bent. #MUSCLES 6r THE PARIETES OF THE ABDOMEN. 51 Anatomical Description.'of the Internal Parts in the Male, - Upon removing the Peritoneum which lines the Abdominal, Iliaco-Internus, and Psoas Muscles, the Umbilical Arteries changed into ligaments, and the Urachus, come into view. The Sperma- tic vessels are also exposed ; and these sweep a- long the brim of the Pelvis, over the surface of the Iliacus Internus muscle *, and, upon reaching the Upper Abdominal Aperture, the Vas Deferens is added. The Spermatic Cord, thus formed, then passes obliquely downwards and forwards, , along the lower part of the Internal Oblique and Transverse muscles of the Abdomen in its course, receiving from the Internal Oblique the Cremaster muscle; and then, at the Under Abdominal Aperture, it suddenly forms an angle, which covers the insertion of the outer tendinous co- lumn of the External Oblique muscles into the Pu- bes, and then passes directly into the Scrotum. This peculiar course of the Spermatic Cord has been very faithfully represented by Vesalius, in the wooden plates affixed to his book, and also by Albinus. It was reserved for Mr Astley Cooper, to detect and describe the Upper Ab- dominal Aperture, which may be perceived by introducing the finger into the Under Ab- dominal Aperture, and, by pushing it up- VOL. II. FS2 OUTLiliJES or anatoMv. wards in the direction of the Anterior Spinous process of the Ilium, the borders of the Upper Aperture may then be perceived about an inch nearer to the Anterior Spinous process of the Os Ilium, than the Under Aperture, the borders of which are in part formed by the Internal Ob- lique and 'I’ransverse muscles, and by the Fascia Transversalls. The Inguinal Canal of the adult follows an ob- lique course, and about an inch intervenes be- tween the Upper and Under Apertures of that Canal. The upper part of this Inguinal Ca- nal, called Upper Abdominal Internal A- PERTURE, is formed by the Transverse and Inter- nal Oblique muscles, and the Fascia Transversa- lis ; and the External or Lower Abdominal Aperture, is formed by the disunion of the tendon of the External Oblique muscle. In the foetus, the Spermatic Cord passes direct- ly through the Parietes of the Abdomen. The internal or posterior part of the Crural Arch is always distinct. It is marked by a white line In the tendon, which extends from the Ante- « • rior Spinous process of the Os Ilium to the Linea Ilio-pectinea, and feels like a tense Cord when the limb is extended ; but, when the thigh and leg are raised to nearly a right angle with the bo- dy, the internal edge of the Crural Arch is thrown into a state of relaxation; which position is fa- vourable, not only to the displacement of the bowels, but also to the replacing the bowels w'henOF THE CRURAL SHEATH. 63 protruded. A continued tendinous membrane lines the internal parts; for the internal or poste- rior margin of the Crural Arch - is intimately in- terwoven with the tendinous fascia which covers the Iliacus internus and Psoas Magnus Muscles, which is connected to the Crista of the Ilium, to the Linea Ilio-pectinea and Ligament of the Pu- bes ; also with that fascia, or rather membrane, which covers the transverse muscles, as far as that part of the thigh where the anterior Iliac Ar- tery and Vein emerge from the Pelvis : Thus, the Crural Arch is firmly bound dovrn, and the bow^- els can be protruded only through the Crural aperture. Of the Crural Sheath. A part of the Iliac Pascia passes behind the Crural vessels, and is firmly united to the Ptibal part of the Fascia lata, forming the posterior part of the Crural sheath ; and the Crural vessels are covered anteriorly by the Fascia Transversalis, Crural Arch, and Cellular substance. Thus, the beginning of the Crural Sheath is formed, and the above Fasciae unite at the sides, and form the lateral portions of the sheath. The Anterior Iliac Artery and Vein are closely enveloped by the same kind of Cellular sheath as the other Arteries and Veins of the body; which sheath is firmly fixed to the inner edge of the .Crural Arch by short Cellular threads j and be- F 2OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. tween the Artery and Vein there is a distinct di- vision. Of the Crural Aperture. On the side of the Anterior Iliac Vein, next the Pubes, there is an aperture called Crural, somewhat of an oval figure, and considerably larger in the female than in the male, which is generally filled by a Cribriform membrane, through whidi tlie Lymphatics of the inferior extremities enter the Pelvis, and sometimes, though very rarely, by a membrane, which has somewhat of a ligamentous nature, and sometimes by Lymphatic Glands, and, according to Mr Cooper, also by a portion of the Fascia Transversalis. On the fore part of the Crural Aperture, the Crural Arch is placed behind the Pubes; and on the Pubal side of it, the thin border of the in- ternal part of the Crural Arch, sometimes called Gimbernat’s Ligament, or the third insertion of the external oblique muscle, by Mr Astley Cooper. There is a considerable difference as to the fize of this aperture in the male and female. It is considerably larger in the latter, * owing to the greater size of the bones of the Pelvis, to the * The Plates in my Treatise upon the Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines, clearly point out the distinctions between the size of the Crural Aperture in the male and female.85 OF THE FASCIA TRANSVERSALIS. smaller size of the lliacus Interims and Psoas Muscles, and chiefly, las I discovered, to the greater narrowness of the internal part of the Crural Arch, fixed into the Pubal part of the Linea Ilio-pectinea. Of the Fascia Transversalis. The attention of Anatomists has been lately drawn to a thin Fascia, * which is seen upon re- moving the Peritonaeum lining the Abdominal Muscles, which was discovered by Mr Cooper, f This Fascia lines the under part of the transverse muscle of the belly, is connected with the inner or posterior part of the Crural Arch, and then ascends for four or five inches upon the Trans- versalis Muscle of the Abdomen, upon the sur- face of which it is gradually loft. This fascia serves two important purposes : it shuts up the direct passage into the cavity of the belly, behind the under Abdominal aperture, and by dividing into the llial and Pubal Portions, forms in a great measure the upper Abdominal aper- ture. This Transversalis fascia is so dilatable, 4 that in Hernice of some standing, the upper aper- perture is nearly opposed to the under^aperture. * I have described this Fascia Transversalis, and Upper Abdominal Aperture, as in the parts dissected, which Mr Astley Cooper sent to me. t Mr Cooper has acknowledged, that, in some instan- ,ces, it is merely condensed Cellular substance. IOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 86 I'hcrc are some fibres from the under column of the External Oblique muscle, which strengthen the back part of the Inguinal Canal. The Diaphragm and Levator Ani should per- haps be described in this place, as they have a great elFect upon the bowels of the Abdomen. But as the Diaphragm cannot be seen until the Viscera of the Abdomen are removed, I shall de- scribe it under the head of the Muscles of Re- spiration. The Levator Ani I propose to describe under the head of Muscles proper to the Anus. As the Fascia Lata of the thigh is intimately interwoven with the Fasciae of the Muscles of the Abdomen, and as the relation and connexion of these Faseix is necessary to the explanation of the nature of Hernia, I have subjoined a descrip- tion of the Fascia Lata of the thigh. Of the Fascia Lata of the Thigh. The Muscles of the Thigh are covered by u strong tejidinous aponeurosis, called Fascia Lata, which takes its rise from the outer rounded por- tion of the Crural Arch, from the Spine of the Ilium, and from the Pubes. Beneath the Crural Arch, (supposing the body to be erect), an oval-shaped depression may be perceived on the fore, and rather on the inner part of the thigh, on the surface of the Pectineuf87 OF THE FASCIA LATA OF THE THIGH. muscle, which Is bounded by a well-defined ten- dinous border, except at its inner edge. The situation of the above-mentioned depres- sion merits notice, as marking the situation of Crural Hernia. In the Fascia Lata, there is an aperture through which the Vena Saphena Major passes, to join the Femoral Vein, the borders of which aperture are covered by fat, cellular sub- stance, and Lymphatic Glands. The Fascia La- ta has been described as being composed of two distinct portions: one of which covers the upper and outer part of the Thigh, and is connected with the larger share of the Crural Arch, between the Anterior Spinous process of the Os Ilium and Tubercle of the Pubes, and may be called lUal portion ; and the other, which arises from the Pubes, Pubal portion. Where the Iliac part of the Fascia Lata ceases to be united to the Crural Arch, it forms a fold of the shape of a sickle, the concavity of which looks downwards and in- wards ; which was first accurately described by Mr Burns of Glasgow, and called, by him, the Falsiform Process of the Fascia Lata j and this covers that portion of the Femoral Artery and Vein which is found immediately under the Cru- ral Arch, and the under part of the Iliacus Inter- nes and Psoas muscles. The other, or Pubal part., which is thinner than the Ilial portion of the tendon, arises from the Pubes, and covers part of the Pectineus and Triceps muscles, and i? united with the Ilial partOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 88 beneath the Vena Saphena Major, where that Vein joins the Femoral Vein. Of the Blood-vessels 'whir.h are propci' to the Muscles of the Parieles of the Abdomen, * and oj' the Situation of the neighbouring Blood-ves- sels in respect to Inguinal and Crural Ilemicc. The Parretes of the Abdomen are supplied with blood from several sources ; from the Epigastric Arterij ; from the Artei'ia Oircwnflexa Ossis Ilii; from the Lumbar ylrterics ; and sometimes from the Obturator Arteries. The situation of the Arteries and Veins, in re- spect to the Hernial Tumour, in an especial man- ner claims the attention of the Surgeon. The Epigastric Artenj generally arises from the Anterior Iliac Artery, and passes behind the ' Spermatic Cord, on the side of the Upper Abdo- minal Aperture, next the Pubes, in its course to the pofterior part of the Rectus muscle. The E- pigastric artery must therefore be first behind, and then on the Pubal side of the most common kind of Inguinal Hernige. Camper, in his excellent Observationts Pa- thological, has accurately described the situation I * From a desire of rendering these outlines still more useful to the Surgeon, I have inserted in this jjlace a de- tailed account of the situation of the blood-vessels of the i Pavietes of the Abdomen.I OF THE EPIGASTRIC ARTERY. 98 of the Epigastric Artery and Vein, in respect to the Hernial Tumour; and has added, that from the duration of the disease, these vessels are push- ed nearer to the Pubes ; ‘ in Herniis ingidnalibus, ‘ Arteria et Vena Epigastrica versus pubem a ‘ prolapsis Intestinis compelluntur. * But the Epigastric Artery is also sometimes situated on the opposite or llial side of the Tu- mour, as has been observed by Desault, Cho- PART, Sabatier, Camper, and Rougemont. The Epigastric Arteiy, in cases of Crural Hernia, appears about half an inch nearer the anterior superior spinous process of the Ilium, than the neck of the Sac, then parses obliquely inwards and upwards, to the Rectus muscle of the Abdomen. The Epigastric Artery does not always take its rise from the same part of the Anterior Iliac Ar- tery within the Pelvis. I have seen the Epigastric Artery and Internal' Circumflex of the Pelvis come off from the A?ite- rior Iliac, by a common trunk veithin the Pelvis,, and very near to the Crural Arch. The Epigastric Arteiy sometimes arises from the. External Pudic Artery ; I have also seen it arising from the Arteria Pr'ofunda Femoris. In some cases, a branch of the Epigastric Artery passes through the Inguinal Canal, and anastomo- ses with a small branch sent off from the Femo- ral Artery,90 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, When the Epigastric Artery takes its usual origin from the anterior Iliac Artery, its smaller branches, in some cases, pass along that part of the Crural Arch called Gimbernat’s Ligament, in their course to the Symphysis Pubis. I have a specimen in which the Epigastric Ar- tery takes its rise from the Obturator, and passes upwards and inwards to the Rectus muscle. Besides the Epigastric Artery, there is another artery which is in danger of being wounded in performing the operation for Crural Hernia. I allude to the Obturator Artery which com- monly arises from the posterior Iliac Artery; but sometimes, as in fig. ist, Plate XV. takes its ori- gin in common with the Epigastric Artery from the anterior Iliac. The trunk common to the Obturator and Epi- gastric Arteries, is sometimes a quarter of an inch in length; in other instances, it measures from an inch to an inch and a half ; and I have met with it of all intermediate lengths. If the common trunk be only a fourth of an inch long, the Obturator Artery runs on that side of the sac, which is next to the anterior Spinous process of the Ilium, and cannot be displaced, being firmly bound down by cellular substance ; and therefore, cannot be injured, in that kind of Crural Hernia in which the displaced bowels are lodged within the sheath of the Lymphatic ves- sels, by dividing that part of the Crural ArchOl- THE OBTURATOR ARTERY. 91 next the Pubes, in the manner recommended by Mr Gimbernat. On the other hand, it frequently happens, when llie Obturator arises in common with the Epigas- tric Artery, that a third branch, nearly of equal size with the Obturator, takes its rise from the common trunk. This may be called the Artery of the internal part of the Crural Arch j for it runs on the inner side of the Crural Arch, passes across Gimbernat’s Ligament, and, when it reaches the Symphysis Pubis, then divides into a number of small branches which are distributed upon the inner side of the Symphysis Pubis. It also merits mention, that a small artery, or two or three small branches, are sometimes sent olf from the Obturator, in its course from the common trunk to the Foramen Obturatorium, which are distributed upon that part of the Crural Arch, called Gimbernat’s Ligament, and which may be divided in performing the operation for Crural Hernia, as recommended by Mr Gim- bernat. When the trunk common to the Obturator and Epigastric Arteries is of an inch, or an inch and a half in length, the Obturator Artery is then situated between the Symphysis Pubis and tlie Hernial Sac, and sometimes follows the same course as that part of the Crural Arch called Gimbernat’s Ligament j of which I have seen several examples. Mr James Wardrop is, I believe, the first92 OUTLINES OF ANATOWi'. who has described such a distribution of arteries in the case of Crural Hernia. In that'instance, the Obturator Artery arose from the same trunk as the Epigastric Artery, and then passed on the Pubal side of the neck of the Hernial Sac, and de- scribed a semicircle around the n^ck of the Sac. Baron Haller, Lieutaud, Richter, and Murray of Upsal, have described such an un- usual origin of the Obturator Artery ; but do not make mention of the proportion of cases in which it occurs. I have paid a good deal of attention to this de- partment of anatomy : In my observations on Crural Hernia, (published in 1803), I have stated, that I had not observed such a deviation from the usual distribution of the arteries in above one of tuenty-five or thirty cases ; and according to sub- sequent observation, such a distribution of arteries occurs in about one of twenty cases. I have also observed, that the short division is as common as the longer ; and as the Obturator Artery is only in danger of being divided by Gimbernat’s o- peration in the latter case, (indeed Mr Cooper asserts, that he had never met with the Obturator Artery passing around the neck of the Hernial ■Sac), hence such an unusual distribution of the ' Obturator Artery does not fomi so material an ob- jection to the operation for Crural Hernia, per- formed according to the method of Gimbernat, as has been supposed. There is still another variety as to the distribu-OF THE OBTURATOR ARTERY. 9S tion qf the Epigastric and Obturator Artei'ies. These arteries, in some cases, come off from the Anterior Iliac Artery by separate trunks; and the Obturator Artery passes around that part qf the Crural Arch called Gimbernat*s Ligament^ and is attached to it by cellular substance. When this happens, the Obturator Artery, by the de- scent of a portion of the Intestine through the Crural Ring, is pressed upon the very part of the Crural Arch divided by Gimbernat, in his oper- ation for Crural Hernia. I have seen the Obturator Artery sent off from the external Iliac Artery, about an inch and a half above, and in others, about an inch below the Epigastric Artery; and in other cases, even on the outer side of the Pelvis, from the superficial Femoral Artery; fin which case, the artery a- scends along the Pectineus Muscle, and enters the Pelvis, at the Crural Aperture. The artery in this case is placed behind the Crural Hernia. I have made particular mention of all the va- rieties as to the origin and course of the Epigas- tric and Obturator Arteries, and of their branches, which have fallen under my observation, as these arteries are of considerable size, and when divided in the time of performing the operation for Crural Hernia, have poured out so much blood as has proved fatal; for on account of their deep situa- tion and retraction, it is extremely difficult to se- cure these by Ligature.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. D4 Even ^vomds of the smaller branches of the Epigastric Arteiy sometimes prove fatal. Dr Carmichael Smyth * has related the histories of two such cases, and makes mention of other similar cases, which were communicated to him, in which the patients lost their lives, by a wound made in the Epigastric Artery, in per- forming the operation of tapping for the dropsy in the belly. There is another artery, which, from a variety as to its mode of distribution, may be divided in performing the operation for the Crural and In- guinal Hernix. I allude to the Arteria Circumfexa Ossis lUiy which takes its rise within the Pelvis, from the anterior Iliac Artery, and opposite to the Epigas- tric Artery. I have seen a branch of this artery nearly as large as the Epigastric, pass under the Crural Arch, about two inches from the Sym- physis Pubis ; and it then divided into branches, which were distributed upon the Symphysis Pubis, the fat and skin over the .Crural Arch, whilst other small branches were distributed upon the llial portion of the Fascia Lata of the Thigh, The peculiar course of the veins also merits attention. A plexus of veins is sometimes placed on Gimbernat’s Ligament; a good deal of blood may be lost by wounding these, especially as they run on the inner side of the Crural Arch 5 * Fid. London IMed. Comihunicat.I OF THE JNGUINAL CANAL.' 9a and therefore the bleeding could not be stopped by pressure. The Obturator Vein generally accompanies the Obturator Artery, and therefore may be divided at the same time as the artery, in performing the operation for Crural Hernia, as recommended by Gimbernat. Mr A. Burns of Glasgow, lately showed me a case of Crural Hernia, in which a large vein pass* ed along the inner part of the Crural Arch, and received the Epigastric Vein. In this case, if the division of the Crural Arch had been made di- rectly upwards, as has been recommended, that large vein must have been divided, and, on ac- count of the size of the vein, a great quantity of blood might have been lost. Such is the account of the parts concerned ifi Hernia, * which I have, for several years past, de- livered in my Courses of Lectures. But notwith- standing all that has been lately written upon the anatomy of the parts concerned in the Inguinal and Crural Hernias, there is a branch of the sub- ject which has not yet been explained to the Me- dical world—I mean the gradual formation of the Inguinal Canal. Having found that Mr Allan Burns, of Glasgow, had devoted a great share of attention I have emitted, in this book, the inferences deduced from the preceding account; for these I beg leave to refer the reader to the Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, &'C.96 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY** to this branch of the subject, I requested of him to favour me with his oljservations; with which request he readily complied, and, by his permis- sion, I have inserted these in his own words. “ When we remove carefully all the Cellular Membrane from over the External Oblique Mus- cle, we still find the muscular fibres covered by an Aponeurotic expansion, which, toward the lower part of the belly, branches off into two pro- cesses. One plate we trace descending along the thigh, investing the Glands, and forming the sub- cutaneous Fascia; the other turns inwards, and incorporates itself with the fatty ligamentous substance found above the Pubes; adhering, in males, to the Ligamentum Suspensorium Penis ; and in females, to the Ligament of the Clitoris. Camper, the celebrated Dutch anatonist, adds, “ et involucrum dat musculo Cremasteri. ” Mr Astley Cooper also describes most accurately the Fascia, which he represents as originating from the aponeurosis of the Oblique Muscle, and invest- ing the Tunica Vaginalis, forming for it a sheath. This Fascia is naturally not very strong ; but in Hernia, it is sometimes immensely thickened. In one specimen of this disease in my possession, it is fully a quarter of an inch thick. “ When we divide longitudinally the sheath of the Cremaster or Camper’s Fascia, we bring in- to view the Tunica Vaginalis, covering the Sper- matic Cord ; and if we trace the latter up towardsOF THE INGUINAL CANAL OF THE FCETUS. 97 \ t the Abdomen, we lose it where it enters the lowet orifice of the Inguinal Canal. “ In the foetus, or new born male, we find that the tendon of the External Oblique muscle, at its inferior and anterior parr, separates into two piU lars, which leave between them an irregular open- ing, through which the cord passes. One of these pillars runs below the cord, the other above it. Both pillars tend obliquely downward and forward, inclining toward the crest of the Pubes, W'here one is completely lost, the other in part im- planted. That fold which passes below the cord is completely implanted into the tough ligament which covers the tubercle of the Pubes. The other pillar, when it reaches the Pubes, separates into two bands ; the posterior, or deeper-seated, is inserted along with the lower pillar into the tubercle of the Pubes, and even extends to the opposite side. The other, and by far the most important fillet, winds obliquely inward ; then bending backward between the Penis and the Cord, it at last incorporates itself with the Fascia, covering the heads of the Triceps Longus, the Gracilis and Flexor Muscles of the leg ; and in some cases, it can be traced much farther, and reaches even to the tendon of the Glutseus Maxi- mus, to which it is attached. This slip from the upper pillar of the Canal, is always inseparably joined to the Fasciae covering the Cremaster ; in- deed, it may perhaps most properly be described VOL. II. GOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 98 as a part of Camper’s Fascia, attached to the Ring. I thought that this structure had not been noticed by any author. I find, however, that it has not escaped that indefatigable anatomist Cam- per, who delineates it very accurately in his plate. It is easiest detected by slitting up Cam- per’s Fascia, by which I mean the sheath of the Cremaster, till we come near to the Ring. When we have done this, if we then insinuate the point of the finger into the lower orifice of the Canal in the adult, or Ring in the child, we find that we arc by this fillet prevented from carrying the finger toward the Pubes. “ This part of the Canal merits peculiar atten- tion ; for whoever is ignorant of the position and connexion of this production from the upper pil- lar of the Ring, can possess only a very confused notion of its action in disease. “ When I shall have stated the anatomy of the Groin in the young subject, and have pointed out the changes which take place on these as life ad- vances,' I shall then have occasion to notice the effect of this fillet in preventing the formation of Hernia ; and also, we shall see that when a pro- trusion has actually taken place, it has a consi- derable share in preventing reduction. “ When we have examined in the very young subject, the structure of the external orifice, through which the cord passes, we have seen all that is most worthy of notice, for in the very early part of life, the Inguinal Canal is not form-OF THE I'NGUllJAL CANAL OF T^IE FCETUS. 99 ed. In proof of which, take a new-born male, in whom the Tunica Vaginalis communicates with the cavity of the Abdomen, and make a puncture into the former, through w'hich one of the blades of a pair of scissars is to be introduced, and pass7 ed into the Belly, then all that portion of the Tunica Vaginalis, which is above the puncture, is to be snipped through. By doing this, we lay the Abdomen and Tunica Vaginalis into one, and we at the first glance perceive whether the cord, at this early period of life, passes in an oblique direction between the muscles and Transversalis Fascia. “ I have never observed the cord in any ob- vious degree oblique in its course ; in an infant at birth, it runs in a straight line from the Psoas Muscle to the bottom of the Scrotum. “ It passes through a mere aperture. “ When, however, we take a subject even a month old, and treat it in the same way, we find then a veiy apparent obliquity in the course of the cord. As, however, it is very rare to meet with an infant of that age, in whom the Tunica Vaginalis remains pervious, we may, where its Canal is obliterated, by slitting up Camper’s Fascia, and entering the blade of a sharp-pointed pair of scissars into the lower outlet of the Ca- nal, pass it up till it appears in contact with that part of the peritonieum which invests the cord at that spot where it passes from the Abdomen. If we divide completely what is between the blades, G 2100 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. we expose fairly the degree of obliquity of the Cord» “ If we examine, in a similar way, subjects of different ages, we find that the older they become, till they arrive near the age of puberty, so much^ the longer does the Inguinal Canal become. “ It may here be worth while to Inquire how the Canal comes to be formed, and what changes take place on the neighbouring parts. As I have already mentioned, the upper and lower openings of the Foetal Ring are opposite to each other, and so very little distant the one from the other, that there is hardly a palpable space between them. The Ring is placed just In contact with the tuber- cle of the Pubes. From this fact, it must at first sight appear, that the lower outlet is In the Foetus, in the same spot which it is afterwards to occupy in the adult. In proportion, therefore, as the Foetal Ring is changed into the Adult Canal, it is the interrml orifice which changes its position ; it is the upper opening which mounts toward the Spine of the Ilium. We may from this very rea- dily understand, that it is from the gradual exten^ sion of the Transversalis Fascia, in that direction, that the Cord comes to be enclosed in a Canal. A very simple contrivance gives a very clear idea of the manner in which the Inguinal Canal is formed. Let any one take two slips of paper of the same length, and cut two small holes in the centre of each ; let him then lay these holes op- posite to each other, and pass through them a quillOF THE INGUINAL CANAL OF THE INFANT. 101 or pencil-case. When he has done this, he has a very good plan of the state of parts about the Groin in the Foetus. If he now hold the papers opposite him, and then pull to a side the one near- est to himself, he will find, that by doing this, he comes to lay the quill between the pieces of paper in the same way that the Spermatic Cord, by the extension upward and outward of the Internal Orifice of the Ring, comes to be lodged in a long Canal. And he will also see, that the length of the Canal must vary according to the greater or less extensimi of its posterior side. Many have also been puzzled to comprehend how the Epi- gastric Artery can bear precisely the same rela- tion to the Cord in the Foetus and Adult, seeing the difference which has taken place in the rela- tive position of the Internal Orifice of the Canal. This difficulty only occurs to those who do not properly understand the mechanism of the parts. One who has made himself acquainted with the - real structure, is never difficulted in following the changes. If the state of parts in the very young subject be known, and if the surgeon have exa- mined those at an advanced period of life, by comparing the one with the other, he has at once unfolded to him the mode in which the Foetal Ring is changed into the Adult Canal. He is taught, that it is a natural consequence oj the ob- lique extensioii of the Traiisversalis Fascia toward the Spine of the Ilium. He sees that, in propor- tion to the degree in which the posterior side ofOUTLINES OF ANATOMlT. 102 the Canal overlaps the anreiior, so must the length of the Canal vary. If he take a just and compre- hensive view of these parts, he will be able to see, in the structure, a wise provision of Nature to prevent protrusion at the Groin, and he will also be led to deduce some pathological inferences from the data before him. He will be prepared to understand why Inguinal Hernia is much more frequent in young than in old subjects ; why it is often cured in the former, and seldom in the lat- ' ter ; and why in the one it is a more dangerous affection than in the other. “ In the very early period of life, the cord, as we have just seen, passes through a mere ciper^ iure% and besides, there is an open communica- tion between the Tunica Vaginalis and the Belly. From these circumstances, therefore, a portion of Gut is forced down along the Cord, forming Congenital Hernia ; or, if the Tunica Vaginalis be obliterated, a new Peritoneal Sac passes through the Ring by the side of the cord. As, however, the parts are more dilatable in the young than in the old person,' so is Hernia, cceteris paribus^ more readily reducible in the former, and conse- quently less dangerous. The Gut, in the first instance, in the young subject, passes through a simple Ring ; but if the Hernia be allowed to re- main, then in many cases the Upper Orifice, a- scending toward the Spine of the Ilium, as it ought to do, comes in the end to lodge both the Hernial Sac and the Spermatic Cord in a com-103 OX^ THE INGUINAL CANAL OF THE INFANT. plete Canal; and this will probably be found to be the reason why surgeons believe that Hernia does often take place along the Canal. They see a Herniary Tumour in advanced age, lying in the oblique course of the Canal; but they forget to inquire when the protrusion took place, and w'ha,t was the original appearance of the Tumour. “ Were they to trace their cases to their ori- gin, they w^ould most probably ascertain, that, in the first instance, the Hernia had appeared in infancy ; that it had been less oblique at the he- ginning^ hut imperceptibbj became more and more so. I speak from what I have seen in several in- stances. Among a considerable number of pa- tients, in whom the Hernia was lodged in the Canal, and of some of which I have casts, I have uniformly, by applying to the friends, as- certained that the Rupture, had taken place in infancy, and had slowly assumed the oblique di- rection. .Some of the nurses have even said, that when, immediately after birth, they attempted to return the Gut, they found that it had passed through a hole, about large enough to admit the tip of their little finger; but, when the child was older, they found it run more to a side. “ In the advanced stage of Hernia, the parts are brought into precisely the same state they were in when the disease began. In the Congenital Hernia, or in the common Inguinal Hernia tak- ing place in a very young child, the Sac passes through a mei'e aperture'^ then, in time w^e haveOUTLINES or ANATOMY. lot seen, that, owing to changes which this open- • ing undergoes, the Gut comes to be lodged in a fully formed Canal. This continues till the Tumour becomes large, when the posterior side of the Canal is, owing to the pressure, slowly absorbed ; and again the upper and lower orifices are brought opposite to each other,. Again, the Hernia resembles, in its appearance and course, the Incipient 1 umbur. “ If the view which I have given of t^e mode of formation of the Inguinal Canal be corred, it will lead to this conclusion, that we ought, in e- very case of Hernia in a young child, most sedu- lously to prevent the descent of the Gut, and, if possible, to return also the Sac, where it is not Congenital Rupture ; for if we do this, we bid fair to cure the disease, by allowing of the exten- sion of' the posterior side of the Canal along the Coi'd. This observation leads me to a review of the influence which the different parts of the In- guinal Canal have in preventing the accession of Hernia. In the very young child, there is no securi- ty against Hernia, except what arises from the Cord filling the aperture through which it passes. This is generally sufficient; for the infant is ex- posed to few of the exciting causes of the disease. When, however, the child advances in years, in the course of its amusements, and afterward of its business, it is more and more exposed tp the causes of Hernia.or THE INGUINAL CANAL OP THE INFANT. 105. “ Nature has, however, wisely provided, that in proportion to the danger, the security should be increased. The posterior side of the Canal o- verlaps every day more and more the anterior side ; consequently, when the canal is completed, any pressure against the posterior side, tending to produce Hernia, has the effect of laying that side moreJirmly in contact with the Cord; of forcing the latter steadily against the anterior side, where the fibres of the Transversalis and Internal Ob- lique muscles react upon it. Thus, a most per- fect valve is formed ; and where the posterior side of the Canal is fully extended, it is impos- sible that Inguinal Hernia can take place. “ I have already attempted to show, that where the Gut has passed down in infancy, it may, in the end, come to be lodged in a Canal; but this is very different from a Hernia passing along the Canal for the first time in an adult. By the over- lapping of one side of the Canal over the other. Hernia is prevented from primarily taking place in the adult, by the internal orifice of the Ingui- nal Canal. “ Although, for the reasons above stated. Her- nia cannot often, if ever, take place by the up- per orifice of the Inguinal Canal; still, was there not some contrivance devised, it might happen, by bursting the posterior side of the Canal opposite the lower orifice. “ The posterior side of the Inguinal Canal is formed^ as was first demonstrated by Mr Cooper,OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 106 by the Transversalis Fascia, which is thin and di- latable, and, therefore,’ independent of assistance, affords but a trifling barrier to protrusion. Na- ture has not, however, neglected this point; for, opposite to the inferior opening, she has strength- ened tlie posterior side, by a set of inflectedfbreSy which arise, as described by Camper, from the folded in lower pillar of the Oblique muscle, and run upward, expanding over that portion of the Transversalis Fascia opposite to the lower outlet. This affords one security; but Nature seems pe- culiarly solicitous about defending this opening, and has therefore bound the two pillars firmly to- gether, by cross slips, and made to arise from the upper one, a fasciculus of Fascia, which by winding round the top of the thigh, must, in these motions which would endanger the parts, be made closely to embrace the Cord, adapting thus, ,in a most accurate manner, the size of the lower out- let to the size of the Cord. “ We thus see, that, hij the iiosterior Kigali of the Canal, Inguinal Hernia is, in the adult, pre- 'vented from takingpla.ee through the upper orifice; and that, by the peculiarity of the mechanism of the lower opening, Venlro-Inguinal Hernia can- not occur, except where, by violence, the poste- rior side of the Canal is burft, or the cross slips torn, by which the fillet from the upper pillar would come to lose its effect. “ When Flernia has taken place, the very ob- jects which formerly had a tendency to preventor THE INGUINAL CANAL OF THE ADULT. 107 its accession, are now so far changed in their ac- tion, that they present obstacles to the replace- ment of the Gut. If the Hernia has occurred in a young subject, where the Canal is not formed, or in an adult in whom the pofterior side is want- ing, which is not a very rare malformation, then our only difficulty mud depend on the action of the lower outlet. In this case, the cross fibres which bind the two pillars together, act on the Sac ; and the fillet, from the upper pillar, em- braces it closely, but not equally, in every direc- tion of the limb. When the toes are rolled in- ward, and the thigh, on the affected side, pulled from the other, and turned backward, this fillet is sunk into the Sac, and retains it iinmoveably in its situation. “ This species of stricture may most readily be overcome, by moving the member in an opposite way ; and, I believe, in knowing how to humour the parts in the Taxis, the great superiority of one surgeon over another consists. When, how- ever, the rupture has taken place in infancy, and continued till the complete extension of the Canal is accomplished, then, besides this source of dif- ficulty, there is also a source of embarrassment, arising from the reaction of the fibres of the Transversalis and Internal Oblique muscles upon the Sac, which occasion a species of stricture, in which bloodletting, warmth, and the relaxing the muscles by bending the body sideways, facilitate the reduction. The above remark applies to that108 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. species of incarceration dependent on‘a narrow- ing of the internal orifice of the Canal. ” Sect. III. OF THE PERITONiEUM. The Peritonaeum is a firm, simple, thin, elastic, serous, diaphanous membrane, which lines the Parietes of the Abdomen, to which it is connect- ed by cellular substance j and, internally, it is remarkably smooth, and kept moist by the aque- ous fluid which is constantly discharged from the small exhalant arteries which open upon its surface. It gives a partial covering to the Diaphragm, and to most of the bowels contained within the Abdomen and Pelvis, excepting the Kidnies; and forms ligaments for retaining the bowels in their proper places ; and hence the impropriety of the term. Cavity of the Abdomen ; as the bowels are, strictly speaking, upon the outer fide of the Pe- ritonaeum. The Aorta, Vena Cava, and Thoracic Duct, are placed behind the Peritonaeum. There are various productions of the Perito- naeum ; the most remarkable of which are the Mesentery, Mesocolon and Omenta. The Peritonaeum serves to support, to defend, and to fix in their proper situation the bowels of the Abdomen and Pelvis; to conduct the blood- vessels and nerves of the Viscera of the Abdo-109 OF THE PERITONiEUM. men, and to strengthen the Parietes of the Ab- domen j and the liquor effused on its surface pre- vents the bad effects of friction. The Blood-veffels of the Peritonseum are of small size, and are derived from various sources ; from the Epigastric, Phrenic, and Lumbar Ar- teries. The Nerves of this membrane are derived from the Lumbar, Intercostal, and Phrenic Nerves. Between the muscles of the Abdomen and Pe- ritonseum, there are, in the adult, fbur white lines, formed by the Urachus, and the shrivelled Umbilical Artery and Umbilical Veins. Sect.IV. OF THE STOMACH, This term has been applied to the most capa- cious part of the Alimentary Canal, which is somewhat like a cone twisted upon itself, and with the Base of the cone on the left side, and the Apex on the right side, looking backwards. The Stomach is connected with the Gullet and Duodenum, and by the reflected Peritonaeum and* Bloodvessels with the Liver, Omentum, Spleen, Pancreas, and Arch of the Colon. This portion of the Alimentary Canal is placed immediately below the Diaphragm, and laid ob- liquely across the body, between the Liver and Spleen j and it occupies the larger share of theno OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Epigastric Region, and a part of the Hypochon- driac Region. That the position of the Stomach may be better understood, it is necessary to describe it in its undistended, and also in its distended state. The Stomach, when undistended, presents an anterior and poslei'ior surface ; a large and small curvature ; and two orifices, the Cardiac and Py- loric, 1’he Villous coats of the opposite sides of the Stomach arc contiguous to each other when the Stomach is empty. When the aliment is accu-- mulated within the Stomach, In consequence of the contraction of the Pylorus, the Stomach yields to the mechanical distension ; and its coats, which seem to be at first passive, then seem to adapt themselves to its contents. As the food is accumulated, the greater curva- ture of the stomach rises forwards and upwards, and occupies the space between the Cartilages of the Ribs, forming at the same time a considerable angle with the Gullet. The Pylorus is, as the name expresses, a vigi- lant sentinel, possessing great sensibility ; for the contents of the stomach are not discharged in the order they have entered the stomach, but in pro- portion as they have undergone the necessary changes within the stomach. When the aliment within the stomach has been converted into a homogeneous greyish fluid, called Chyme^ the Pylorus yields, and the contents of the stomach pass into the smaller Intestines.Ill OF THE STOMACH. When the Stomach has been distended, we may observe, especially in examining the bodies of persons who have died a violent death, that the usual comparison of the Stomach to the poitch of a bagpipe, is not accurate', for it is somewhat contracted towards the Pylorus : in some cases, this contraction is very great, and continues for some days after death, though the Stomach be immersed in water. This contraction of the Stomach has been no- ticed by many anatomists. Mr William Cow- PER * * * § has described, in his explanation of his thir- ty-fourth plate, what he has named ‘ Pwo bunch- ‘ ings in the lower part of the Stomach; * and Sneider and Blasius have mentioned cases in which the Stomach has been divided into three sacs, Riolan, f Blasius, \ Morgagni, § Lor- RY,|| Walter,H Ludwig,** HuFELAND,tt and Van der KoLK,tf have also described the-con- traction in the middle of the Stomach. * F’id. His Anatomy of the Humane Body. London, 1G98. f Fid. His Anthrop. p. 17. Published 1662. t Fid. Lieutaud, Hist. Anat. Med. Vol. I. p. 12. § Lit. XVI. .Art. 38.; XXVI. Art. 31.; XXX. Art, 7. ; XXXVI. Art. 3.; XXXVIII. Art. 28. II Fid. Hist, de la Societ. Roy. de Med. Tom. XI. p. 195. Fid. His Catalog. No. 1572 and 1573. ** Vid. Primae Lineae Pathol. Lips. 1785. p, 40. tt Fid, Journal der Pract. Ai-zneyk. V. B. P. 823. Fid. Dissert. Groning. 1793.112 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. T. his contraction in the middle of the Stomach is either temporary or permanent, and, according to Morgagni, is connected with a derangement in the functions of digestion. But a contraction in the middle of the stomach is not always to be found ; and Mr E. Home is perfectly correct in stating, “ that a contraction in a greater or lesser degree is very generally met with. ” This contraction of the middle of the Stomach is most obvious in those instances where the Sto- mach is of unusual size, and where the distance between the opposite extremities is greater than common. ^ Mr E. Home has described a case, in which he has observed, that “ the contraction was so per- manent, that, after the Stomach had been kept in water for several days in an inverted state, and at different times distended with air, the appear- ance was not altogether destroyed. * In a subsequent paragraph, he has added, “ If the body is examined so late as twenty-four hours after death, this appearance (viz. the contraction in the middle of the Stomach) is rarely met with. ” But there is a species of contraction of the mid- dle of the Stomach, which does not go off, of which I have a specimen before me -f while writ- ing these lines, and where the contradlion is at * F"id. London Phil. Trans, for 1807, Part. II. f Wliich was sent to me by Mr A. Burns of Glasgow*OF THE STOMACH. 113 present quite obvious, though the Stomach has been preserved for eighteen months in spirits. From the manner in which Mr Home has exp res-, sed himself respecting the formation of the Hu- man Stomach, and its division into two parts by a stricture, it is impossible to decide, whether he mijans to affirm, that the formation of the Stomach which he has described be the natural one, or only accidental; and if accidental, whether generally or only occasionally, to be met with ; as in the same paper, published in the Lond. Fhil. I’rans. Part 2. for J807, he has asserted each of these po- sitions*. I must beg leave, notwithstanding the great respect I entertain for Mr Home’s talents and skill as an anatomist, to differ from him as to the first position he has laid down, that the PIu- man Stomach is divided into a Cardiac and aPylo-* ric portion*, and in this 1 am supported, not only * “ The Human Stomach is divided into a Cardiac and Py- loric portion, by a muscular contraction, similar to those of other animals; and as this circumstance has not before been taken notice of, it may be necessary to be more particular in describing it." r. 170. “ Since that time I have taken every opportunity of e.xamining the Human Stomach after death, and find that this contraction, to a greater or less degree, is very generally met with." P. 171'. “ It (the Human Stomach) is occasionally divided by a muscular contraction into two portions; these are in shape, and relative size, sometimes similar to those of the Beaver; at others to those of the Plorse." P. 157- VOL. ir. FIOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 114 by my own observations, but also by the concur- ring testimony of the most eminent anatomists of all ages. There is also a mistake in the assertion which forms the concluding part of the same sentence. That this stricture was unnoticed by any former anatomist. In proof of this I have only to refer the reader to the references at the bottom of p. 111. The second position laid down by Mr Home, That the stricture of the Stomach is not univer- sally, but “ very generally” to be met with, is also • objectionable. His last position is, that this stricture is only “ occasionally” to be met with ; to which I readily subscribe ; but what is occasional cannot be said to be constant. That this stricture, or occasional appearance of the Stomach, described by various anatomists, and which has occurred to myself, is generally the re- sult of Spasm affecting particular muscular fibres of the Stomach, and which takes place during life, and appears even after death, and is a mor- bid not a natural appearance, seems to me proved by the following circumstances : 1st, As there is no peculiar organization of the Stomach, or band of muscular fibres, to cause such a division ; and as the stricture, according to Mr Home, varies in situation, degree of con- traction, and extent, in different subjects, which could not be the case were it a natural formation of the Stomach itself.OP THE STOMACH. 115 fid, As we observe still more frequently a si- milar appearance, and to a greater extent, the consequence of'a spasmodic contraction in the turns of the intestines, both great and small, in the gall-bladder and bladder of urine ; wlien up- on examination there is no organic disease, and which therefore can be occasioned by spasm alone. 3d, Mr Home has supplied a further argument against his own supposition, by assuring us that this stricture of the stomach can only be observed when the body is opened soon after death, and that it entirely disappears in twenty-four hours ; whereas, w’ere it a natural contraction, it should remain until the'stomach be destroyed by putre- faction. There is no organ which receives a larger sup- ply of blood than the Stomach. The Arteries of the Stomach are branches of the Coeliac Artery ; and the Veins which corre- spond with these arteries, assist in forming the Vena Portarum. The Nerves of the Stomach are derived from the Eighth Pair and the Sympathetic Nerves. 0/ the Coats of the Stomach. • There are only Three Coats proper to the Sto- mach •, the Peritoneal, the Muscular, and the Vil- lous ; for I reject entirely what has been called 1 the Nervous Coat, which is merely the cellular substance connecting the different Coats, and H2OUTIilNES OP ANATOMY. 116 « which, being more loose between the Muscula and Villous Coats, has been described by Anato- mists as the Third Coat of the Stomach. The Coats of the Stomach are not easily sepa- rated from each other. The Peritonaeum, reflected from the Liver, forms the External Coat of the Stomach. The Second Coat is made up of distinct muscular'fibres, which may be divided into two strata. The external stratum is continued from the Gul- let ; and the greater part of this stratum is dispo- sed in a longitudinal manner, from the left to the right side of the Stomach. On each side of the small curvature of the Stomach, this stratum forms a distinct fleshy band of muscular fibres. The interior stratum of muscular fibres is dis- posed in a circular manner. The Third Coat is much more extensive than the First and Second ; and forms the Plicae of the Stomach, the greater number of which are dis- posed in a transverse direction. At the lower orifice of the Stomach, there is a distinct circular muscle, which has been called PyloruSy which is covered by the cellular and vil- lous coats of the Stomach, and varies as to form and size *. * SoKMMEMiNG, (dc Corporis Humani fabrica, tom. vi. p. 222.,) speaking of the Pylorus, has observed: * Forma, ‘ magnitudo, crassities atque ostium hujus Pylori ad sequentes • tres varietates proecipuas redigi possunt: Interdum integer qui-ap THE SASTIUG JUICE. 117 Sect. V. OF THE GASTRIC JUICE. Besides the Mucus, a fluid, peculiar to the sto- mach, and therefore called Gastric, is also found within the Stomach. Respecting the secretion and nature of this fluid, different opinions have ' been entertained. According to some authors, it is secreted by the small arteries, distributed upon the villous coat of the Stomach ; according to others, this fluid is prepared by numerous small glands situated in the vicinity of the Cardia. This last opinion is rendered probable by ana- tomists having observed in the stomach of the Ostrich, glands of a large size, imbedded between the muscular and villous coats ; the ducts of which are large enough to be visible, and are found to open upon the internal surface of the Stomach. We are still imperfectly informed as to the che- mical qualities oi the Gastric Juice, owing to the difficulty of obtaining it pure, and in sufficient quantity to be submitted to a chemical analysis, and also from its qualities being constantly alter- ed by the admixture of the food. The Gastric Juice obtained by exciting vomiting upon an H3 ‘ dem annulus est, scd tenuis, ex orbibus concentricis formatus, ‘ amplus spatioso admodum ostio. Interdum pars annuli aliqua ‘ reliquo ambitu latior est, et ostium modice amplum ovatum. ' ‘ Interdum annulus parvus, oblongus, ovatus, ostio oblonge ‘ ovato, et valde angusto hians.’0VT1.1NKS or anatomy/ 118 empty stomach, or by thrusting a piece of dried sponge into the stomach to collect it, or by collecting it from the stomach of an animal recently killed, is still an impjire Jluid, being mixed with Mucus and Saliva, and sometimes with Bile. Dr SiLVENs’s experiments with perforated balls have pointed out, that there is a considerable dis- tinction between the Gastric Juice of a carnivorous and graminivorous animal. He gave to oxen and sheep, balls filled with animal substances, which were not dissolved; but when the balls were filled with grass, it was con- sumed. From the experiments which Mauquart and Vauquelin made on the Gastric Juice of sheep, it appears that sometimes the uncombined phos- phoric acid is present; but on other occasions,* ■no acid ; and from the experiments of Spallan- ;2ANi, it seems to partake neither of an acid nor of an alkaline nature. The Gastric Juice, particularly in young ani- mals, has the property of coagulating milk. The coagulated milk thrown up by infants immediate- ly after sucking, and the well-known use of the stomach of the calf in our dairies, sufficiently prove this fact. Dr Young found that the Stomach retained this power after being repeatedly washed, and that the infusion of a portion of the Stomach em- ployed as runnet, did not lose its coagulating power though mixed with an alkali,119 OP THE GASTRIC JGICK. Brugnatelli informs us, that the Gastric Juice of carnivorous animals, as Hawks, has a bitter taste and pungent smell, and not at all watery; and contains an uncombined acid, with a small quantity of the muriate of soda. On the other hand, Carminati informs us, that the Gastric Juice of sheep is watery, has a bitter taste, and contains ammonia, an animal extract, and a large proportion of the muriate of soda. From the above, there is reason to conclude, that the Gastric Juice is adapted to the food of the animal, and therefore different in the different clas- ses off animals. There is likewise reason to sup- pose, that it is somewhat different at different times, and in different individuals. Most of the graminivorous quadrupeds, when young, are fed chiefly on milk, and some birds chiefly on animal substances. A chick for the first few days is nourished by the yolk of the egg ; and the pigeon feeds its young at a very early period with a curd formed in its crop, mixed with its grain, till they arrive at a certain age, when they are fed on grain alone; proving, more clearly than Spallanzani and Mr ' Hunter’s Experiments on the Eagle, that the food of an animal, intended to live ultimately on vegetables, may, in the earlier period of its exist- ence, be purely animal, or at least of a mixed na- ture. The operation of the Gastric Juice in cold- blooded animals is not so powerful as in other classes ; and it has been observed likewise to act H 4OUTLINES OP ANATOMP. 120 Still more slowly during the winter w'hen they arc in a torpid state, and to have its activity again in- creased by exposing them to a greater degree of heat The most remarkable circumstance in the his- tory of the Gastric J uice is, that its poictr is pure- ly chemical; for it operates as poiverf 'ully upon the animalfibre out of the body, as within the Stomach of a living animal; and actually is observed to dis- solve the Stomach itself after death. From this fact, it is obvious, that its operation is confined to the dead animal fibre, and that it * My Father, during a severe winter, (1764,) kept a Hedgehog in a room wliere there was no fire from the month of Novem- ber till March. He placed near the animal boiled beef, bread, cheese, potatoes, water, and straw. About the beginning of De- cember, the Hedgehog was affected with an unusual degree of drowsiness. He, however, continued to eat, though more spa- ringly, till the 25th of that month. From that time till the 8th day of March following, he continued in a profound sleep, except when artificially roused. After being thus roused, he soon walk- ed back to his place of retreat, and resumed his dormant state. On the 25th of December, he weighed thirteen ounces and three drachms ; on the 6th of February eleven ounces and seven drachmsand, on the 8th of March, eleven ounces and three drachms. There was a small quantity of feculent matter and urine among the hay. At the time of his actual revivisccnce, no person was present; and, of course, the circumstances at- tending it are unknown. In the course of three months, the Hedgehog had neither ate nor drank; but remained constantly in a profound sleep among the straw. Its limbs, liowever, were never rigid; but it lost two ounces of its weight. Frogs, w'hich my fatlier kept during the winter in a vessel with water, seemed to be in a similar state vrilh that of the Hedgehog. ;121 of THE GASTRIC JUICE. has no effect upon the living. This inference may appear to some contradicted, by an experi- ment of Dr Stevens’s, who inclosed a living leech within a silver hollow ball, which the stone-eater swallowed. Upon examining the leech within the hollow, sphere, after it had passed through the alimentary canal of the stone-eater, it was found to be nearly dissolved ; for nothing remained ex- cept a viscid black mass. This experiment, though ingenious, is not per- fectly conclusive of the fact in question, as the leech w'as probably killed wdthin the Stomach, and afterwards acted upon by the Gastric juice, like dead animal substances. The Gastric juice possesses another very remark- able property *, it is antiseptic, and arrests the pro- cess of putrefaction in substances in which it had begun. The food within the stomach is exposed to the ninety-seventh degree of heat of Fahrenheit; is intimately blended with the juices of that or- gan, and exposed to the muscular action of that organ ; by which it loses its tenacity, becomes of an ash colour, then gelatinous, and is converted in- to a grey-coloured fluid called Chyme. Of these changes, we may have ocular demonstration, some- times during life, or by killing animals at different times, after feeding them. Richerand has related a very interesting case, in which there was a considerable opening in the Stomach, in consequence of an injury. The pa-eVVLINBS OF AKATOMY; m' tient, when received into the CharitS, ate three times as much as ordinary ; and had a stool once in three days. But three or four hours after a meal, she felt an irresistible desire to remove the dressing from the Stomach, to allow the food to escape, which was converted into a greyish paste^ and had a faint odour^ hut was neither acid nor alkaline. The contents of this patient’s Stomach was ac- curately examined, and it was found that there was an increase of jelly ; a substance like fibrine was formed, and also a considerable proportion of muriate and phosphate of soda, and of phosphate of lime. In the morning, the Stomach contained a quan- tity of thick frothy liquid, resembling saliva, in which there were several albuminous flocculi. By chemical analysis, the above fluid was found to be similar to saliva. The patient dragged on a miserable existence 5 was greatly emaciated, being imperfectly support- ed by the small quantity of food which passed through the Pylorus, and the small quantity which was taken up by the absorbents of the Stomach. Sect. VI. OF THE THEORIES CONCERNING THE AGENT BY WHICH THE FOOD IS CONVERTED WITHIN THE STOMACH INTO CHYME. The remarkable changes which the aliment un- dergoes within the Stomach, have been ascribedPR STEVENs’s EXPBRIMEKTS ON THE GJKTRIC JUICE. 123 by difFeerent authors to different causes ; to an in- cipient PUTREFACTION by Others to fermen- tation ; by some to trituration ; and, by a third set, to the gastric juice. The limits of this book permit me only to add, upon this very interesting and extensive subject, that the changes which the aliment undergoes within the Stomach, are, in my opinion, to be ascribed chiefly to the operation of the Gastric Juice upon the food. The above opinion is found- ed upon the experiments of my Father, who found that Bone was dissolved by the Gastric J dice of Dogs ; and also upon Dr Stevens’s experiments, who found, that if tubes containing alimentary substances, were not perforated, no change was produced ; but when the tubes were perforated, their contents were converted into chyme. In short, the Gastric Juice is not a diluent, but a solvent; and the solvent power of the Gastric Juice, is different in different animals. In the herbiverous animals, it dissolves vegetables only *, whilst in the carnivorous and fish, its operation seems confined entirely to animal matter ; where- as, in man, and animals destined like him to live both on vegetable and animal matters, its solvent power seems equally effectual on either ; for it is adapted to the digestion and assimilation of cer- tain vegetables, as well as animal matters *. * It seems that, as yet, we are much in the dark as to the nature of the Gastric Juice, which probably differs very much, not only in animals of different classes, but in animals of them OUTLINES OF ANATOMY^ Air within the Stomach and Intestines. In the healthy state of the digestive power, air, though certainly generated, is immediately re- absorbed, and therefore no air is found either to distend the Stomach, or is emitted from it. Wherever, therefore, air is contained in the Stomach, it affords evidence of an imperfect di- gestion, and that the animal fermentative process, which takes place in vegetable and animal matter, placed in certain circumstances out of the body, has in these instances taken place within it. From Mr JuRiN of Geneva’s experiments made on air emitted from the Stomach, it appears, that it consisted chiefly of azote, with a small propor- tion of carbonic acid gas, and a still smaller pro- portion of oxygen. Other experiments seem to shew that it is chiefly carbonic acid. same class, some eating that kind of food with impunity, which proves a poison to others ; a fact which I have already taken notice of in my Thesis, ' Quasdam tamen res quibusdam ani- ‘ malibus lethales, aliis animantibus ininime nocere, notandum * est; sic, capri cicuta, vaccis perniciosissima, impune vescim- ‘ tur; porci hyoscyamo pinguescunt; equus vitri antimonii ‘ quantitatcm quae centum homines necaret, impune tolerare ' potest; canis opii copiam homini huic non assucto lethalem, ‘ sine periculo devorare potest: Contra autem, dosis jalapa? aut ‘ nucis vomicae, aut amygdalae paucae amarae, eundcm convcl- * lerent aut extingucrent.’Of THt iNtESTItJAL CXHkJj. iHB Sulphurated and Phosphorated Hydrogen Gases are also found within the Stomach and Intestines of the dyspeptic, gouty, &c. It also seems probable, that a part of the air is swallowed along with the food, and a part secreted by the blood-vessels. Sect. VII. OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL. The Intestines, on account of their unequal diameter, have been divided into the Smaller and Greater Intestines. The Colon, the greatest portion of the larger Intestines, surrounds the smaller. The smaller Intestines extend from the Stomach to the Valve of the Colon. They are longer than the larger Intestines ; and have been divided by anatomists into three parts. Duodenum, Jejunum, and Ileum. The whole tract of the smaller Intestines is not of equal calibre : that portion next the Stomach is the largest, and that next the Colon is the smallest. Hence the smaller Intestines form a co- nical, not a cylindrical tube. The greater share of the smaller Intestines is very moveable, excepting the Duodenum, which is firmly fixed down by the Layers of the Meso- colon.OUTUiTES OF ANATOUr. *•^1 Of the Duodenum. The Duodenum is that portion of the smaller In- testine which is joined to the Stomach : it is much more capacious than the Jejunum or Ileum, and hence has been called by Riolan, the Assisting Stomach. This Intestine describes various turns. From the Pylorus it turns backwards, and upwards, and then downwards under the neck of the Gall-Blad- der, with which it is in contact; it then passes obliquely downwards, to the right side ; and, included within the cellular substance of the Mesocolon, it passes to the left side, across the Lumbar Vertebrae ; below the Pancreas, and be- hind the superior Mesenteric vessels, and root of the Mesentery and Mesocolon, and ends in the bowel called Jejunum. Of Chylfication, or of the Changes which the Food undergoes within the Duodenum. The food within the Intestines is changed into an excrementitlous and useless part; and into a chylous or nutritive fluid ; which latter is absorb- ed by the Lacteal Vessels,OP THE DUODENUU. Though the Duodenum at first sight be similar in structure to the other smaller Intestines, yet there is reason to suppose, that ,the alimentary mass is longer detained in the Duodenum, than in other parts of the smaller Intestine ; as it is much more capacious, more curved, and provided with a great number of Valvulae Conniventes. The assimilation of the alimentary mass with- in the Duodenum, is promoted by the addition of the Bi/e and Pancreatic Juice, by which acids, taken in along with our food, or generated by a morbid state of the Stomach, are blunted, and probably neutralized. The effect of the acid matter upon the aliment, is thus counteracted ; for, when Bile is mixed with any acid, the acidity takes off the bitter- ness of the Bile, and the bitterness of the Bile- takes off the acidity, and may perhaps bring about the separation of the Chyme, into the Chyle and excrementitious matter. The Bile is probably separated into two parts within the Duodenum, viz. into the Albuminous part, which flows into the blood along with the Chyle, and into another part, which communi- cates its colour and bitterness to the excrement, and which serves at the same time to stimulate the Intestinal Canal. On opening the smaller Intestines, we meet with a mucous and gelatinous fluid, mixed with their contents, and sometimes a w’hite, and at otherOUTLINES OP ANATOMY. 126 times a yellow fluid, besmearing the villous coat, which in a healthy digestion, may be perfectly distinguished from the alimentary mass. ISio acid is ever found within the Intestines in a healthy person. The air on some occasions found, is chiefly azote, with a small quantity of carbonic acid gas, hydrogen, and a sugary matter. Of the Chyle. In Man and Quadrupeds, the chyle is of a white colour, like milk ; and contains albumen, serum, and globules, with salts of different kinds ; and, ac- cording to some, a substance like the sugar of milk. From the difficulty of collecting this fluid in purity, and in sufficient quantity, from the Lac- teal Vessels, its chemical qualities have not been as yet fully ascertained. Of the Jejunum and Hewn. These portions of the smaller Intestines describe a great many turns. The convolutions of these Intestines, fill up the greater share of the cavity of the Umbilical and Hypogastric Regions, and also a share of the ca- vity of the Pelvis. As these Intestines are perfectly moveable ; they129 ‘ OF THE JEJUNUM AND ILEUM. are displaced by the gravid uterus, and by the sto- mach when much distended. These portions of the smaller Intestines are very similar to each other ; the Ileum is somewhat smaller, and not of so red a colour as the Jeju- num. These portions of the small Intestines have an oblique direction from the left side to the Caput Caecum Coli, which lies on the right Os Ilium. Of the Valvula Coli. The Ileum opens into the left and posterior side of the Caput Caecum Coli, forming an acute angle with the Caecum, and a right angle with the Co- lon. Between the larger and smaller Intestines, there is a valve, composed of two folds of the in- ternal coat placed transversely; and each fold composed of small internal Laminae. The superior fold is laid transversely, and gene- rally is shorter than the other. But the lengtft and breadth of the folds are va- rious ; as also the size of the interposed aper- ture. Sometimes the lower fold is long and broad ; and the upper one short and narrow. Sometimes both folds are slightly prominent, and their distinction is not obvious. I VOL. ir.OUTLINES OF AHATOMT. 130 The Peritoneal Coat, extending from the Ileum to the Caput CtEcum Coli, retains these Intestines in their relative positions. Upon cutting the Peritonaeum and Muscular Coats at the union of the two Intestines, the inter- nal villous Coat may be so elongated that the valve completely disappears. The turns of the smaller Intestines are retained in their proper place by means of a membrane, which, on account of its situation, has been called Mesentery. This is a flat and broad .membrane, composed of two layers of Peritonaeum ; between which the Arteries, Veins, Nerves, and Lacteal Glands and Lacteal Vessels are placed. The Intestines are placed and nearly inclosed at the extremity of this dupl'icature, and being long- er than the Mesentery itself, have the appearance of being gathered or puckered : From this beau- tiful mechanical contrivance, their convolutions* cannot be entangled or involved with each other, nor shaken from their place by the various or sudden movements of the body, and are also evi- dently less liable to be injured by external vio- lence.131 the JEJtJjTUM iLEUtt. Larger Intestines. j The larger Intestines extend from the Caput Caecum Coli to the Anus, and are distinguished from the smaller by their size, form, situation, , Appendices Epiploicae, connexions, and func- tions. The situation of the larger Intestines is more constant and defined than that of the smaller In- testines. i| ! Course of the Larger Intestines. :i 11 From the Caput Caecum Coli the Colon ascends, |j and lies before the Right Kidney; it then goes upwards and backwards under the Liver, then pas- ses across the body from right to left, under the ; Gall-Bladder, Stomach, and Spleen ; with which last it is connected by the Omentum Majus. It descends on the left side of the Abdomen, to form what has been called, from its resemblance to the Sigma of the Greeks, its Sigmoid Flexure. It af- terwards descends into the Pelvis to form the bowel, commonly called Rectum, the other extremity of which forms the Anus. The larger Intestines have been divided by Anatomists into the Caput I 52132 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Caecum Coli ; the ascending part of the Colon on the right side of the Colon ; the transverse arch ; the left descending portion ; the Sigmoid Flexure ; and that part attached to the Os Sacrum, which has been named Rectum, although it should ra- ther have been named Curvwn, as it describes a portion of. the same curve as the Os Sacrum. The Colon is not of an equal size. The Caput Caecum Coli, which is situated on the right Os Ilium, is much more capacious than any other part of it ; it is about four or five inches in dia- meter, and sometimes even more. It is properly the Caput Cajcum, from the left side of which there is an appendage of a tortuous shape, about five inches long, and having the same coats as the intestines: it is about the diameter of a middle- sized writing pen, having a blind end ; and has been named Appendix' Vermiformis. The fatty Papillae, called Appendices Pingue- dinosae, attached externally to the large Intestines, the Adipose Strata, the Pouches of the Colon, pro- duced by three ligamento-muscular bands, begin- ginning at the Appendix Vermiformis, and which are shorter than the Intestine itself, and accompa- ny it through the whole of its course, until they unite and form two bands at the Rectum, are pe- culiar to the larger Intestines. The large Intestines are retained in their situa- tion by a membrane similar to the Mesentery, cal- led Mesocolon, which may be divided into three parts.or THE COURSE OF THE LARGER INTESTINES. l33 The Mesocolon Dextrura passes from the Liver and from the right Quadratus Lumborum, cover- ing only the anterior part of the Colon, and fixes I it firmly down to the Iliac muscle, ji The second portion may be called the Trans- ' verse. That on the left side, or third portion, called i Mesocolon Sinistrum, is continued over the left j side of the Colon, from the Iliac vessels and Psoas Magnus, to the left Kidney, covering only the an- terior surfaee of the Colon, the baek of which is connected by cellular substance with the Dia- phragm, the Psoas muscle and the Kidney. I Of the Contents oj the Larger Intestines. The exerementitions part of the alimentary li mass, is found within the large Intestines; which, i! being very capacious, serve as a reservoir, within li which the fseces are collected, in order to prevent i: the neeessity of their constant evacuation. There are fewer Lacteal vessels proper to the i laige than to the small Intestines; notwithstand- I ing of whieh, nutritious clysters have been found l! capable of supporting life for a considerable time, t On account of the great size of the Colon in some I animals, it seems probable that the alimentary mass undergoes some great and important change within it, especially in the horse ; in which ani- I3134 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. mal the Colon is much more capacious than the Stomach. Chemical Analysis of Human Faces. Homberg, and some of the older Chemists, made experiments on the Faeces; and, more lately, Berzelius* has taken up the same subject; and the following is the result of his analysis of Faeces. Water 73-3 Vegetable and animal remains .... 7.0 Bile . . . , 0.9 Albumen 0.9 Peculiar extractive matter 2.7 Slimy matter, containing resin of the bile, peculiar animal matter, and insoluble re- sidue 14.0 f 100.0 Sect. VIII. OF THE COATS OF THE INTESTINES. There are Three Coats proper to the Intestines; a Peritoneal Coat, a Muscular Coat consisting of * The consistency of human faeces varies considerably; but, at a medium, they may be stated to lose three-fourths of their weight when dried upon a water bath. Vid. Gehlkn’s Journ. VI. p. 535. t Vid, Gehlen’s Journ. VI. p. 536.135 or THE COATS or THE INTESTINES. I two strata of fibres, and an internal Villous Coat. What has been usually called the Nervous Coat, is ,^! merely the Cellular substance which connects the 2, Muscular and Villous Coats. First Coat, I The Peritoneal Coat is very thin, and nearly transparent; so that the Muscular Coat is seen through it. Its external surface is quite smooth, and lubri- cated, like other serous membranes, by a thin serous fluid. This Coat possesses considerable toughness and elasticity. J i Of the Second Coat. i The second Coat is' composed of Longitudinal ij and Circular Muscular Fibres, j The former are very thin and pale, and visible I only on the convex surface of the Intestine ; where- ] eas the latter, the Circular Fibres, are much coarser, and more apparent, especially in the Duodenum; but they are not so obvious in the I Jejunum and Ileum. Upon examining minutely each Circular Fibre, it may be observed to be made up of several segments of circles, I4OUTLINES OF anatomy. 136 The contents of the Alimentary Canal are pro- pelled by the joint action of the Muscular Coat and of the Abdominal Muscles. Hence, when a portion of the Intestine has been displaced, as in Chronic Hernia, a degree of constipation fol- lows, the contents of the Intestines being, in such circumstances, propelled onwards solely by the muscular contraction of the Coats of the displaced Intestine; for the Abdominal Muscles are of no service in promoting the evacuation of their con- tents. The Intestines of every animal are in constant motion, or perform what is called a peristaltic and antiperistaltic motion. The peristaltic motion has commonly been said to be continued regularly from the top to the bot- tom of the Canal, by which the food is propelled downwards, whereas this action begins at once in several parts of the Canal; and whenever the food is applied to any part of the Intestines, it contracts itself, and makes a firm point, to which the por- tions above and below are drawn by means of the longitudinal fibres, which shorten the Canal, and at the same time dilate the under part. The antiperistaltic action is exactly the reverse of| the above, and by it the food is turned over and over and exposed to the orifices of the lac- teal vessels ; and in cases where the free progress of the aliment is interrupted, this inverted action137 or THE VILLOUS COAT. is sometimes so great, that the contents of the in- testines and glysters thrown up have been rejected by vomiting. The rapidity with which the peristaltic and an- tiperistaltic motions take place varies considerably, depending on the degree of excitement,and sensi- bility of the Intestine. Of the Villous Coat. The Villous Coat is connected by a loose band of Cellular substance, called, improperly. Nervous Coat, to the Muscular Coat. It is much more extensive than the other Coats, and forms doublings, called Valvuhr Conniventes ; improperly ; for they do not perform, with accu- racy, the office of Valves. These doublings are placed transversely in the Jejunum. In the Duodenum and Ileum they are disposed longitudinally; and in the Ileum, they / become gradually very small, and almost disap- pear in the end of it. These Valvular Conniventes very rarely extend through the whole circle of the Intestine; often they are joined by communicating folds. These Valves are broadest in the middle, and narrower at the extremities. In general, they arcOUTLINES OP ANATOMT. 138 about a line and a half broad. One edge of these Valves is loose ; but the other is fixed to the In- testine. The Villous Coat is covered with Villi; and, after filling the bloodvessels, these Villi seem to be made up of a network of Bloodvessels, Nerves, and Orifices of the Mucous Ducts and Lacteal Ves- sels. Of the Coats of the Larger Intestines. t The Coats of the Larger Intestines in some mea- sure resemble those of the smaller. The longitu- dinal muscular fibres are collected into three bands, which have the appearance of Ligaments placed at equal distances on the surface of the In- testine ; and these shorten the intestine in such a manner, as to give the surface of the intestine a cellular appearance ; or, the intestine seems made up of a triple row of hemispherical protube- rances. These bands originate from the Appendix Ver- miformis, and become gradually broader, until they terminate in the Muscular Coat of the In- testinum Curvum. In consequence also of the Longitudinal Liga- ment contracting the Intestine, the Peritoneal andor THE AFPENDIX VERMIFORMIS. isa Muscular Coats form large transverse folds, which are larger at the beginning of the Intestine, be- come gradually smaller, and are at length lost in the Curvum ; and between these folds large Cells are formed. Mucous Glands of the Intestines. The Mucous Glands of the Intestines are more or less obvious, being of different sizes. They are numerous in the smaller Intestines, and are collected into groups, or solitafy. Appendix Vermiformis. The Appendix Vermiformis is fixed down to the posterior part of the Caput Caecum Coli by the Peritonaeum, which forms its Mesentery. This Appendix, into which the faeces do not pass, is cylindrical in shape, tortuous in its course, about four or five inches long, and ends in a blind Sac. There are many mucous glands between its Coats, which secrete a mucous fluid, which pro- bably passes into the Caecum.OUTLIKES OF ANATOMT. 140 Intestinum Currum, commonly called Intestinum Rectum. The bowel commonly called Rectum,'is fixed by the doubled Peritonaeum, or Mesorectum to the Os Sacrum, which is concave towards the Pelvis ; and hence I have ventured to call it Curvum, in- stead of Rectum. The Peritonaeum covers the sides and anterior part of this bowel, and is then reflected upon the posterior and inferior part of the Bladder of the male, and in women upon the upper part of the posterior surface of the Vagina. Beyond this reflection of the Peritonaeum, the Rectum continues its course downw^ards for two inches, and is united to the vesiculae seminales by cellular substance and prostate gland, and in the female to the vagina. The Muscular Fibres of it are thick and strong, and extend uniformly over the surface of the in- testine. The extremity of this bowel, which is amply supplied with Mucous Glands, is somewdiat con- tracted, serving in a degree to assist the Sphincter in retaining the faeces. The Anus is surrounded by Fat and Cellular substance, by which the Rectum may be consi- derably dilated, and the Mucus Follicles around the verge of the Anus prevent it from being irri- tated.OF.THE ARTERIES AND VEINS OF THE INTESTINES. 141 The extremity of the Intestinum Curvum is much less irritable than the other parts of the In- testinal Canal, and is enlarged somewhat above the Sphincter Ani. This is very conducive to our convenience. By these means, the faeces are re- tained and accumulated for a time within the Rec- tum ; by which we are enabled to chuse a fit time and place for discharging the contents. But in cases where there is a great accumulation of faeces, if the individual does not obey the warning, the muscles act involuntarily, and expel the fasces. The Muscular Fibres of the Intestinum Cur- vum are thicker and stronger than those of any other part of the intestines. There are a number of Mucous Follicles at the verge of the Anus, which secrete a good deal of Mucus, in order to prevent excoriation. The Anus is also enveloped in a quantity of Fat, which admits of the expansion of the Intestinum- Curvum. Arteries and Veins of the Intestinal Canal. The Intestinal Canal is largely supplied with blood. The Duodenum receives blood from the He- patic and Splenic Arteries ; and the other parts of the Intestinal Canal are supplied by the Superior and Inferior Mesenteric Arteries.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 142 The Veins of the Intestines assist in forming the Vena Portarum. Nerves of the Intestines. The Intestines are supplied with Nerves from the Great Sympathetic and Eighth Pair of Nerves ; and these Nerves are frequently united, and form what Anatomists have named Ganglia; from which a great many small Nerves issue out in all directions, to supply every part of the Intestinal Canal. Sect. IX. OF THE MUSCLES OF THE ANUS. The extremity of the Curvum or Rectum is provided with muscles, which assist in the expul- sion of its contents, and in its retraction after the faeces have been expelled. These muscles are the Coccygi-cutaneo- Sphincter, or the Sphincter Ani; the Sub- puBio-CoccYGEUs, or Levator Ani; the Ischio- Perinealis, or Tronsversalis Perinoci^ Muscles. Coccycx-cutaiceo-Sphincter, or The Sphincter Ani. This muscle surrounds the extremity of thc- Anus.MUSCLE* <H>‘ THE AKUt. 143 Some Authors have described this muscle as consisting of two parts, the Sphincter edternus and tniernus; but the latter is rather a part of the muscular fibres of the Intestinum Curvum. The proper Sphincter Ani is imbedded within the skin, fat and cellular substance; It consists of two distinct strata, the fibres of which describe concentric arcs, which decussate each other, and are united in a point, both before and behind, as has been very accurately described and repre- sented by Dr Camper, in his Demonstrationes Anatom. Patholog. Behind, this muscle is connected with the ex- tremity of the Os Coccygis by a ligamentous substance ; and before, it is connected to the Ac- celerator Urinae, the Transversalis Perinaei, and Levator Ani. By this muscle, the extremity of the Jntesti- num Curvum is shut, by which the faeces are re- tained ; yet when it is requisite, and in obedience to the will, it yields, so that this may be named a Semivolutiiary Muscle. SuB-puBio-CoccYGKUf, OF Levotor Ani. This muscle takes its origin by short tendinous fibres from the inner side of the arch of the pubes; Irom the tendinous aponeurosis of the Obtura-144. OUTHWES OF ANATOMY. tor Internus muscle : from the Spine of the Is- chium ; and also from the Os Coccygis, from which the muscular fibres diverge as from a centre. The fibres of this muscle follow different direc- tions, and are inserted, and intimately incorporat- ed with the muscular fibres of the side of the Rectum, and also with the fibres of the Sphincter Ani muscle, and Accelerator Urinae. This muscle forms the lowest part of the cavity of the abdomen. It also retracts the Intestinum Curvum, after the evacuation of the faeces; and, by pressing upon the Vesiculae Seminales, and Prostate Gland, may assist in expelling the contents of these parts. The part of the muscle which arises from the Ossa Pubis, and incloses the Prostate Gland, has been named by Albinus the Compressor Pro- states. IscHio-FerineALis, or Transversalis Ptriinti. This muscle arises from the inner side of the tuberosity of the Ischium, behind the Erector Penis, is disposed in a transverse direction, and is inserted into the back-part of the Accelerator Uri- nae. This muscle serves to dilate the bulb of the Urethra, and also assists in retracting the Intesti- nuin Curvum, after the faeces have been evacuated.MUSCLES OP THfi aNUS. 14^ There is sometimes another slip, which has been I ■ • described as the Transversalis Feriuei AUei\ IscHio-coccYGEUS, or CoccygeuSi This muscle takes its rise from the Spinous process of the Ischium, and is fixed into the side of the Os Coccygis, which it pulls forwards; and it also assists in raising the Curvum. There is a part of the same muscle which arises from the under and fore part of the Os Sacrum, which is fixed into the fore part of the Os Coccy- gis, and which has been called the Sacro-Coccy- GEus, or Curvator Coccygis, as it assists in bend- ing the Os Coccygis. 4 Authoi's on the Structure of the Stomach. F. Glysson de Ventriculo et InteSf. Lond. 1677. Renaudin, Diss. de Actione Ventriculi. Argent. 1780. Jo. Dan. MetzEr, Ventricul. hTuman. Anatom, et Physiol. Consid. Regiom. 1788. Morgagni, Adversar. III. & IV. de Ventriculi Struc- tura. I Galeati, Acad, de Bologna. VOL. ii, KOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 14(5 Authors 'on Digestion. Reaumur, Pringle, Macbride, J. Hunter, For- DYCE, Stevens, Spallanzani, Authors on the Intestines. Vid. FIalleu, Element. Physiol. Vol. VI. & VII. Dr Monro primus. Edinb. Med. Essays. Edward Sandifort, Descript. Imestin. Duod. Bern. S. Albinus, Specimen Anat. Lugd. Bat. 1724. The Mucous Glands of the Alimentary Canal have been well described, and also represented, by Roederer, in his Treatise De Morbo Mucoso. Authors on the Fcritonceum. Douglas’s De.scription of the Peritonaeum. Lond. 1730. Wrisberg de Peritonei Diverticulis. Getting. 1780. J. G. Walter de Morbis Peritonaei. Berolini, 1787. Dngravings of the Stomach. Vid. Plates in Spigelius’s Anatomy, published at Am- sterdam by Antonia Van dER Linden, in which there are several good representations of the Stomach and Intestines. Vid. Santorini’s Posthumous Work, published by Girardi. Parmae, 177.5. Fred. Ruysch, Thesaur. Anat. 2dus. Tab. V. Wm. Cowper’s 34th Plate, published in 1698, gives a vei*y accurate view of the Human Stomach moderate- ly distended. E. Home’s Plate of the Human Stomach inverted ; and also his Plates of the Stomachs of many animals. London Phil. Transact. 1807.K 2 ENGRAVINGS OF THE DUODENUM, &C. UT Henr. Palm. Leveling, Pylorus Anatoniico-Physiolog. C<?nsideratus. Argentorati. llecus. in Sandifort’s Thesaur. Dissert. Vol. III. Engravings of the I^iodentim, Vid. Works of Dr Monro primus. Quarto. Edinb. Edward Sandifort, Tab. Intest. Duod. Leidm, 1780. J. D. Santorini. Tab. XII. J. C. A. Brunner, Gland. Duoden. Fraricof. 1715. ' Engravings of the Smaller Intestines. Theod. Kerckring, Spicilegium Anatoniicum, Amst. 1670. \ recus. in Manget Bibl. Anat. Jo.CoNR. Peyer de Glandulis Intestinorum. Scapliu- siae, 1677. 8 recus. in Manget. Bibl. Anat. Tom. I. et in ejusdem Parergis Medicis. L. B. 1736. Bern. Siegfried Albinus de Arteriis et Venis San- guiferis IntestinorumTenium Hominis. Leidae, 1736. Idem in Libr.'III. Annotationum ejus Academicarum, Tab. I. II. Jo. Matth. Lieberkuhn de Fabrica et Actione Villo- rum Intestinorum Tenium Hominis. Lugd. Bat. 1745. Romanes Adolphus Hedwig, Disquisitio Ampulla- rum Lieberkuhnii Physico-Microscopica. Lipsiac, 1797. 4. Janus Bleuland, Vasculorum in Intestinorum Tenium Tunicis, Subtilioris Anatomes Opera detegendorum Dcscriptio; Iconibus illustrata. Traj. ad Rh. 1797.4.HS Oim-IXE9 or ANATOay, En^aiin^ of ihe V'choa of the Colon. 13- S. Aldinus, Annolaiionum Acad. Libro Tertio, Tab. V- fig. 1. J. D- SantoEiNi, L c. Tab. XIV. Engravings of Ote Large Intestines. Godofe. Bidloo, Auatome li. c- Centum et qnmquc Tabulis- Per G. cle Lairesse ad vivum dclineati**. Amst. 1685. Sandifort’s Back Veins of the Intestines. Figures of the Jnlestiaum. Rectum. Pet. Cam re a Demonstrationum Anatomico-paxbologi-' earum Libro Secutido. An«;t. 1760.PART IV.derangements of the alimentary canal. 151 CHAPTER I. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. It is proposed to divide the Organic Derange- ments of the Alimentary Canal into two great Classes. The First Class contains a very brief description of those Organic Dei'angements %uhich are pecidiar to the Organs of Manducation and Deglutition : And the Second, of those vohicli are peculiar to the Stomach and Intestines, Before proceeding farther, it may not be im- proper to observe, that as the same kind of struc- ture pervades the Alimentary Canal, there must exist a great resemblance between the Organic Derangements to which its component parts are subject. The above division is therefore artificial, and ’calculated merely to point out those Organic De*OUTLINES OF ANATOMV. i rangeinents to which the Organs of Manclucation and Deglutition, from their peculiar office and situation, are exclusively exposed. • t Of the Organic Derangenients of the Organs of ' Ma?iducatioji and Deglutition. From the preceding very brief account of the functions of the organs concerned in Manduca- tion and Deglutition, it follows, that for the per- formance’of these functions, the cooperation and perfect action of many parts is necessary ; hence the various causes which impair or wholly impede deglutition. * ' Mastication is performed by the action of the Jaws and Teeth : hence, when the under Jaw is fractured or dislocated, it cannot perform the ne- cessary movements. The Teeth, from their situation and office, are much exposed to external violence and disease. They ar6 often inflamed, but do not swell. Spots of different colours are seen on the enamel of the Teeth. ‘ ‘ ' The enamel is sometimes discoloured, from chewing tobacco ; and it has been stated, that the bony parts of Teeth acquire a yellow hue from the Jaundice. * For a more full exposition of the various causes of Dys- phagia, see my Thesis qn that subject. - . . ^ •diseases of the lips and cheeks. 155 X ^The Teeth very often become carious; and this generally begins between the Teeth, and extends inwards, to the very centre of the body of the Teeth, exposing the sensible pulp of the Tooth. .The Tooth is excavated; the enainel remaining like a shell. But the Teeth are not affected by the constitu- tional diseases of other bones, Lues Venerea, Rickets, and Molllties Ossiura. Of Malconformaiions and Diseases of ilie Lips and Cheeks, There are several Organic diseases which pre- vent the Lips, Cheeks, and Tongue, from per- forming their usual action,—the retaining the food between the Teeth during manducation. The inner membrane of the Lips is sometimes so much relaxed, as to protrude between the Lips. Chil- dren are sometimes born with the Lips adhering to each other; or with a Fissure in the Lip, or with two Fissures ; and a considerable space sometimes intervenes between the Fissures. The Fissure is moil frequent in the Upper Lip; and in some such cases, the Bony Palate is split, and also the Uvula. The Lips and Cheeks are often inflamed, covered by Apthos, eroded or ulcerated, from an unnatural projection of the Fore Teeth, Scurvy, or Lues Venerea.154- outlines OF ANATO-AfV. Cancer sometimes appears in the Lips, and most frequently in tiie Under Lip. The disease appears in the form of a dark brown-coloured Wart, or in the form of a deep spreading Ulcer, or like a hard Tumour, which ulcerates in its centre ; and the neighbouring I.ymphatic Glands, especially that under the Chin, partake of the same disease. Malconformation and Diseases of the Tongue, The Tongue has been described as awaniing ; . sometimes double j and sometimes of a monstrous bulk. It sometimes adheres to the Cheek, in consequence of previous inflammation. The cuticle of the Tongue becomes much thicker than natural in some fevers, and after a time comes off in thick flakes. The other organic diseases of the Tongue are. Inflammation ; Swelling, and Ulceration; which are very often the effect of carious Teeth, or of Lues, or its antidote. The Tongue is sometimes covered by Apthae. The Tongue often appears hard ; there is a crack or fissure in it; it then bleeds ; and at last dege- nerates into a Cancer. The Ulcer bleeds fre- quently ; and the patient dies, exhausted by the repeated haemorrhagy. . Scirrhous Tumours sometimes grow in the Tongue, which degenerate into Cancer, and ex- tend to the Lips in some cases,155 diseases of the os HYOipES AND PALATE. Small Watery Vesicles, about the size of a pea, or Hydatids as they have been called, sometimes appear in the Tongue. Sometimes, though very rarely, the Fraenum Lingux is too short j and the child cannot suck. Diseases of the Os Hyoides. The Cornu of the Os Hyoides has been dislo- cated. Exostoses sometimes grow from the Os Hyoides, and impede deglutition. Organic Diseases oj the Palate. The Palate Is made up of the Hard and Soft Palate. The Bones of the Palate have been frequently eroded, from Lues Venerea, and other diseases. The soft Palate is sometimes fissured; and when that happens, the food, instead of passing into the Pharynx, passes into the Nose. The Soft Palate is much inflamed in the Cy- nanche Tonsillaris, and also ulcerated j and it is frequently eroded by Lues. Polypi also sometimes grow from It, and hang into the Pharynx. Sometimes the Soft Palate adheres to the Pha- rynx, from long continued ulceration. The Uvula is often swelled and relaxed, so thatOUILllREil or ASXrOBT, JJ<5 ft becomes longer tlian nsaal, and irritates frjt Fauces very much; or Tumours grow from it. Qhr^cmlc DercmgeaveTtls of the Salkwry Glands', During the manducatlon of the food, it Is mix- ed by a large quantity of Saliva and Mucus, Diseases of the Salivary Glands are by no mean?, unfrequenr, especially those o-f the Parotid GIatMl.T, and are observed in many malignant fetters. The Parotid Gland is frequently inflamed. In cases of Mumps, there is often a consider- able swelling of this Gland. The Sublingual Gland is often inflamed, occa- sioning a painful Tumour under the Tongue. Purulent matter is sometimes collected in the Cellular substance, between the Lobes of the Pa- rotid Gland, or in the Cellular Substance which lyes over that gland. Wounds and Diseases of the Ducts of the Salivary Glands. TheDucts of the Salivary Glands having been di- vided by a cut with a sword, or destroyed by ulcer- ation, the Saliva is then constantly dischCirged, oc- casioning a Salivary Fistula ; or these Ducts have been much extended, in consequence of obstruc- tion by Salivmy Cmicretions. The enlargement from the above cause is in some cases very considerable, occasioning (when157 fflI&£ASES t>y THE SAIITAJIT at occtiTS in t?3c Sublangaal Gland) the disease called Basuda ; as, irom the Tongne being press- ed upwards to the roof of the mouth, the patlei^: artkadates indistinctly, and his voice has a croak- ing sound, like that of a frog- The Ranula somedmes attains a vary l^ge «rze j and when the Tumour increases suddenly^ the Tongue may be fcaced so far back as to prevent inspiration. The Ranula sometimes bursts, and discharges a fluid like the white of an egg. The disease caimot be cured, until the cause of the dbstinc- tion be removed. Scirrhus of the Salivary Glands is by no means of rare occurrence; and but rarely leads to Gan- cer. I Scdizxcnj Cmcreikais^ Ston^ of a white colour, and of different sizes, sometimes are found within the ducts of the Larg- er Salivary Gland. * All of those represented in Plate XXVL were dbtained from the Salivary Ducts. These substances, when chemically analyzed, have been found, by Fource.oy and ¥ArjQU£- LiN, f to consist of phosphat of lime, united to a membraBous sid3st2uice. • F~id. Plate XXVL t fid. EouacBOY, IX. p, 367,'158 OUTLINES OF ANATOMV. Dr Bostock examined a Salivary Concretion weighing 1-^ grain, which consisted of phosphat of lime, excepting a few films of matter, which were considered as coagulated albumen. J Dr Thomas Thomson examined for me a cal- culus which stuck In the Tonsils, and which. In appearance, bore a very, strong resemblance to Salivary Calculi^ and which he found to consist. of two parts of phosphat of lime, three of carbo- nat of lime, and a proportion of coagulated al- bumen. * i * EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXVI. In this Plate, several Calculi, extracted from the ducts of the Salivary Glands, are represented; the larg- est was extracted from the duct of the Inferior Maxillary Gland. J :j: Fid. Nicholson’s Journal, XIII. p. 374-. ■* Fid. Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, See.derangements of muscles of the tongue, &c. 159 Organic Derangements of Muscles of the Tongue^ Fauces, and Pharynx. When the bolus of food has been masiicated, and mixed with the Saliva, it is put upon the point of the Tongue, which is elevated; and by the Styio-glossi, Mylo-hyoidei, Genio-hyoidei and Digastric muscles, the Pharynx is elevated, and at the same time expanded, in order to receive the bolus of food. By the retraction of the Tongue, the bolus of food is pressed into the Pharynx. The Velum Pendulum is raised by its Levator muscles, by which the passage into the Nostrils is shut. The .pushing the Tongue backwards has the ef- fect of pressing down the Epiglottis, and of thereby shutting the passage into the Windpipe, to which ' the elevation of the Larynx, which, from its con- nexion with the Pharynx, must be raised along with it, essentially contributes. Indeed, the ele- vation of the Larynx is siifficient to shut the Epi- glottis, as may be seen in the dead body, by fixing the Tongue to the Palate. Thus, the bolus of food passes into the Pha- rynx ; and by the successive contraction of the muscular fibres of that organ and of the Gullet, it is propelled into the Stomach. That it does not descend into the Stomach on account of its weight, is obvious, from our being able to swallow solids, or even fluids, with body in-ODTLINES OF ANATOMY. verted ; from a spasm or palsy of the Pharynx and Gullet^causing impeded deglutition ; and from animals generally feeding with the head lower than the rest of the body. Such being the means by which the bolus of food passes into the Gullet, it follows, that when these muscles become paralytic, or arc spasmodi- cally contracted, or when any swelling or tumour obstructs their action, deglutition must be much interrupted, or wholly impeded. The palsy and spasm of the muscles is some- times only of a few hours duration ; but, in other cases, it lasts for weeks or years. * Organic Derangements of the Tonsils: » The Tonsils of the young and robust are ex- tremely subject to inflammation. They are some- times so much swollen, that the passage for the air through the nostrils is much obstructed, and also that of the food into the Gullet. This inflammation is often succeeded by the formation of Abscesses, and sometimes, according to authors, by Gangrene ; and more frequently by the exudation of a quantity of coagulable lymph. The Tonsils are sometimes filled by a sebaceous matter. Calculi sometimes occur in the Tonsils. • Vid. my Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, and Intestine?. \I I I OHGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE TONSlis, 161 Beside the above various organic derangements of the organs of manducation and'deglutition, extraneous bodies frequently stick in the Fauces^ Pharynx, or Gullet. An extraneous body sticking in the Pharynx: proves a source of inflammation and ulceration ; and a Sac is formed fof it, which, becoming more extensive, proves the cause of difficult degluti- tion. Flat bodies, aS halfpennies, have in some cases stuck for years in the Gullet; but large bo- dies sticking in the middle of the Gullet, have proved a cause of instant death, by compressing the Windpipe. Many bodies, after sticking in the Gullet, pass down into the Stomach, and prove the source of inflammation, and other consequences to be after- wards described; VOL. if.OUTLINES or ANATOJIY. 162 CHAPTER II. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE . STOMACH AND INTESTINAL CANAL. Of Alvine Concreiiom, The term Concretion is very descriptive of the nature of these substances, which are composed of fibres intimately matted together. These concretions are various in point of size. Some are not larger than a garden-pea; but o- ■ thers are as large as an orange ; and some attain a much greater bulk, weighing three or four pounds. The smaller Concretions are of a yellow co- lour, of an oval or rounded figure. The larger are more irregular, consisting of a number of lobes ; and some of them seem to be composed of a congeries of smaller Concretions, and are covered by a white crust, which seems to be de- posited in successive layers. There are commonly only two or three Con- cretions formed within the human intestines, but sometimes a greater number.OF ALVrNE CONCRETIONS. 16S Some alvine Concretions are porous, somewhat like dried sponge, and composed of fibres inri- inately interwoven with each other. Some of the Concretions, when divided, exhi- bit laraellos’ about two lines in thickness, and a central nucleus j but, in others, there is neither a nucleus nor lamellcE. * There are small cavities vvithin some alvine Concretions. These alvine Concretions'were analyzed by Dr Thomas Thomson, who communicated to me the following account of them. “ The calculi which I examined are of a much more compound nature than I expected, and con- tain two substances, of a nature quite peculiar, or at least with which I was not before acquainted. The following observations will convey a general idea of their nature and composition. “ I. At first they swim in water ; but that is tiwing to the numerous pores, filled with air, which they contain. Accordingly, they soon sink to the bottom, and remain there. The specific gra- vity I found to vary in different specimens, from 1.376 to 1.540. i consider 1.400 as about the average specific gravity of the whole. “ 2. When left in cold water, they soon com- municate a brownish tinge. The water was found to have taken up the following substances : L 2 * Fi(/. Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines.OUTLINES OF ANAtoMY* 164- I. Albumen, which was separated in white flakes by boiling the water. 2. A brown substance, which I consider as peculiar. It dissolved at first in water ; but became nearly insoluble, by the slow evaporation of the liquid. It dissolved in alcohol. It approached most nearly, in its pro- perties, to vegetable extractive; but the quantity which I obtained was too small for an exact examination. 3. Common salt, which cry- stallized when the water was allowed to evapo- rate spontaneously in an open vessel. 4. Phos- phate of lime, which was precipitated by ammo- nia. 5. Sulphate of soda, in a very minute pro- portion. 6. Perhaps also sulphate of lime ; but the quantity of this salt must have been very small. “ 3. Alcohol dissolved the peculiar brown matter, and some of the salts, but extracted no- thing particular. “ 4. Potash ley separated the albumen, the brown matter, and perhaps some of the salts^ “ 5. Muriatic acid separated a notable propor- tion of phosphate of lime. “ 6. After the action of all these reagents, there remained behind a peculiar substance, hav- ing the colour and texture of the calculus. Ten grains of calculus left 1.2 grains of this matter. It was very light, and had the appearance of cork, or rather of the peculiar fungus which is used on the Continent for tinder, and which the French call Amador. It was in very short threads. ThisOF ALVINE CONCRETIONS. lO’o substance is tasteless, insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, potash ley, and muriatic acid. It black- ens sulphuric acid, and is dissolved, being partly reduced to charcoal. In nitric acid it dissolves very slowly, and only when assisted by heat; and hardly effervesces. When the solution is evapo- rated to dryness, a whitish residue remains, which has a bitterish taste, and is imperfectly soluble in water. Nitric acid does not convert it into any of the vegetable acids, though digested on it re- peatedly. This substance burns with a slight flame, and .rather like a vegetable than an animal body. It is undoubtedly of a peculiar nature, dif- fering from every animal and vegetable substance hitherto examined. Its insolubility in potash ley distinguishes it readily from Wood. It has no resemblance to any animal substance whatever. “ 7. The calculi consist essentially of alternate layers of this peculiar substance, and of phosphate of lime. Sometimes the substances are intimate- ly mixed, instead of being in alternate layers. The albumen and brown matter seem to serve as a cement. The other substances are in a small proportion. “ The crust on the outside of some of the cal- culi consists of phosphate of lime, mixed with a brown animal matter. “ In a few specimens, I observed crystals of phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, upon the outside crust of the calculi j but these appear? ani;es are uncommon,OUTLINES OF ANATO.MY. » } »' ^ “ Such are the constituents of tlie calculi, as far as examined. I have retained thin slices of two or three, and mean hereafter to ascertain the proportions of the diflerent constituents with ex- actness. In two calculi, the phosphate of lime amounted to rather more than half the weight of the whole. In one specimen, the albumen sepa- rated was one twenty-seventh of the whole; but I have reason to believe that a portion still re- mained. The quantity of common salt, and sul- phate of soda, was small. I could detect no pot- ash by the test of muriate of platinum. Neither was there any ammonia present, or carbonate of lime, both of which I expected to find. I exa- mined the calculi carefully for uric acid, but found none. Neither could I detect any uvea. These substances abound in urinary calculi. “ The preceding details are sufficient to show, that the calculi in question are of a very different nature from any Hitherto examined. .They are of a much more insoluble nature than urinary calcu- li. Indeed no solvent exists, except of a nature so corrosive that it could not be applied. ” Alvine Concretions* derange the functions of the Alimentary Canal, by obstructing it. In some cases, the Concretions pass from one part of the Inteflines to another; and at length ' stick immediately above the Sphyncter Ani, or they are discharged by stool. But more frequently the Concretion sticks in a certain part of the Intestines j which is in prp-167 EFFECTS OF ARSENIC AND ITS OXYDES. cess of time expanded into a Sac, within w'hich the Concretion is firmly retained by coagulable lymph effused upon the Villous Coat of the en- larged Intestine, insinuating itself into the unequal surface of the Concretion. Of the Effects of Arsenic and its Orijdes upon the Human Frame^ 'when tahen into the Stomach. Arsenic, when taken in its pure metallic state, is not so poisonous as its oxydes. I made several experiments upon dogs ; and found, that six, or even eight, grains of the metallic arsenic might be given to a dog with impunity. The Arsenic acted as a very pffwerful cathartic and diuretic. The black oxide of Arsenic produced, by ex- posing the metallic Arsenic, when minutely divid- ed, to the air and moisture, a very deadly poi- son ; for a single grain of this excites violent vo- miting of bile and blood, followed by death. The white oxyde of arsenic is equally deadly j and upon dissection, the Stomach is found vio- lently inflamed, eroded, or rather as if perforated by a sharp instrument; which perforations are surrounded by a red line, and in some places gangrenous. i,/ I found also, that an artificial Sulphuret, com- posed of equal parts of sulphur and arsenic, might be given, to the extent of ten or twelve grains, to . a dog with impunity ; but that a larger quantity occasioned the most violent symptoms.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 16S Opium seems to prove fatal, by its effects upon the Nerves, and by being absorbed and mixed with the blood. * Sect. I. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENT OF THE yiLLOUS COAT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. Of Iiifammation of the Villous Coat of the Alimentary Canal. A part inffamed is generally ^of an unnatural redness, and swollen ; but not always so. I have seen the Intestines of persons who died with all the characteristic symptoms of inflammation of the Intestines, of a sea-green colour ; and, as a proof that inflammation had existed, the Intestines were covered by coagulable lymph, and blotches of a deep red colour. The Villous Coat of the Alimentary Canal, when inflamed, commonly assumes a red colour, has a pulpy appearance, and is more sensible than usual. The inflammation rapidly spreads along the Villous Coat, fro\n the primary seat of the dis- ease, and also to the other Coats. Covering the inflamed Villous Coat, we frequently meet with a quantity of coagulable lymph. * Fide my Father’s Experiments, Edinburgh 31edical and Physical Essays, Vol. III. p. 292, &c.ULCEHATION AND EROSION OF THE VILLOUS COAT. 169 In consequence of inflammation, the Villous Coat sometimes attains an unnatural thickness, owing to the effusion of a quantity of coagulable lymph. This sometimes fills the greater share of the Canal of the Intestine. Large pieces of co- agulable lymph have been discharged by stool, which have been mistaken for monstrous worms. Ulceration and Erosion of the Villous Coat. These are the sequel of Inflammation. The Villous Coat of the Pharynx has sometimes been eroded from the Cynanche Pharyngea of Dr Cullen, or from organic strictures. Ulceration is more common in the larger, than in the smaller Intestines. The adhesive generally precedes the ulcerative inflammation ; and hence unnatural communica- tions have sometimes been established between neighbouring parts j as between the contiguous horns of the Intestines, between the Stomach and Colon, or between the Stomach and the Parietes of the Abdomen, and between the Windpipe and Gullet. Gangrene is also an effect of inflammation. The part affected by it emits a foetid odour, as- sumes a black colour, tears like a piece of wetted paper; and the veins of the part do not fill again after the blood has been pressed out, coagulation having taken place.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 170 Of the Appearances of the true Dysentery. Inflammation of the great Intestines is often observed ; and there are black spots upon the Curvum, (commonly called Rectum), upon the Colon, and even on the smaller Intestines. * On an accurate examination, these black spots were found to be owing to black blood diffused through the Cellular Membranes, situated between the fine internal Villous and the Muscular Coats of the Intestines ; and in the middle of these black spots there was generally more or less of an ero- sion of the Villous Coat. Ulcers to a considerable extent take place from long continued Dysentery ; and sometimes a sub- stance, like a slough, is discharged by the Intes- tines, which takes the form of the Intestines ; it is merely coagulable Lymph, which has been effused in consequence of inflammation. On raising the Villous Coat which covered these black spots, it appeared fine and transparent, though the Cellular Membrane below was black j and on dissecting away this black cellular mem- brane, the muscular fibres of the Gut appeared of their natural colour. Sometimes I have observed ulcers of a consi- derable size in the Villous Coat of the Rectum. * Tlie following account of the appearances on dissection in Dysentery, is taken Irom a manuscript of my late uncle. Dr D. Monro,OF THE AlTEAttAKCE OF THE TllUE DYSE-KTERY. ITI In some subjects, there were some spots apr peared on the outdde of the Gut, which, upon examination, were found to be occasioned by extravasated liquors in the Cellular Membranes, between the Peritonmum and Muscular Coats of the Intestine. From what I have mentioned of the black and livid spots which appear on the internal surface of the great Intestines, and of black or bloody fluids being diffused through the Cellular Mem- branes, and of the Villous Coat appearing trans- parent when raised from these black Cellular Membranes in places where it had not been erod- ed, I think there is no doubt but that the erosions of the Villous Coat are occasioned by Suppura- tion of those inflamed parts of the Cellular Membranes, or by a kind of Gangrene or Ulcer in them ; though I think, from the accounts we have in authors, of the dissections of persons who have died of the Dysentery, it should appear that there is no part of the Alimentary Canal that has not been found inflamed, or in a state of Gan- grene or Suppuration. There may be observed, in some cases, on the inner side of the lower part of the Colon* and upper part of the Rectum, a number of little tu- bercles, or excrescences, which resemble the Small-Pox Pustules at the height of the disorder ; but difier from them in this, that they are of a firm consistence, and without any cavity. These Tubercles are sometimes cleft on theirOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 172 surface, and somewhat resemble small warts. This appearance is only observed in the Camp Dysen- tery. In my account of the diseases most frequent in the BritishjMilitary Hospitals in Germany, I have mentioned the case of a Woman who died of the Dysentery, where the Intestines, and especially the Colon and Rectum, were inflamed, and the internal surface of the great Intestines mortified, and contained little vesicles, full of a putrid foetid liquor, numbers of which she had evacuated by stool, some days before her death. An appear- ance somewhat similar to this, I saw in a patient who died of a violent Diarrhoea in the beginning of the year 1766, in St George’s Hospital. On examining the body, there was a great number of small prominences found on the internal side of the Colon and Rectum, with erosions of the Vil- lous Coat in the middle. On squeezing these prominences, a number of vesicles of a mucous or gelatinous liquor, some of the size 6f millet seeds, and others larger, came through the eroded parts of the Villous Coat. The Canal of the Intestines has been stated, by Rhodius, * to have been sometimes obliterated, in consequence of the adhesion of its opposite sides, when there has been an extensive ulceration from Dysentery. * Vid. Rhodius, Mis. Cur. Obs. 508. I have observed the Appendices Epiploicae of the Colon and Rectum much enlarged in cases of Dysentery,OF THE APPEARANCE OF THE TRUE DYSENTERY. 17S Scirrhous Tumours have been described by Meckel, as being sometimes found within the Colon in cases of Dysentery, f EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXVIL This Plate represents two portions of Intestine, the Villous Coats of which had been ulcerated and eroded, in consequence of the Camp Dysen- tery. Sect. II. OF DIFFERENT KINDS OF TUMOURS CON- NECTED WITH THE INNERMOST COAT OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. Of the Milt-like Tumour of Mucous Membranes. ATumour somewhat similar to the Milt of Fish- es sometimes grows from Mucous Membranes. The Milt-like Tumour, in many respects, re- sembles the milt of fishes. It is of a pale red co- lour ; and it also is nearly of the same consist- ence, but rather softer, and has an irregular sur- t Vid, Meckel, extra Comment. Leipsick, Tom. XV.OUtLINES OF anato:mv. 174- face, and is cohered by a thin membrane, upon which there are a number of vessels filled by red blood. This species of Tumour very readily falls to pieces, and mixes in part with water, forming a turbid mixture ; and it is somewhat hardened by being put into strong spirits. It adheres but slightly to the organ from which it grows, by a number of small processes, which insinuate them- selves into the Villous Coat which has attained an unnatural thickness; and when the Tumour has been detached, the Villous Coat of the dis- eased bowel assumes somewhat of a honeycomb appearance; and it is besmeared by several drops of blood, which are derived from the vessels which extended to the Tumour being torn. The bowel from which such a Tumour grows externally, betrays marks of inflammation. There is evidently an unnatural determination of blood to the seat of the disease; the bloodvessels upon the Peritoneal Coat being not only larger, but also more numerous than in the healthy state. The neighbouring Lymphatic Glands also par- take of the disease, being much larger than in the healthy state, and are filled by precisely the same milt-like matter. In a case which I have had oc- casion to examine, where the Bladder was filled by the milt-like matter, one of the Lymphatic Glands at the side of the Bladder, had atialned the size of the first; so that I at first supposed there had been an unnatural contraction in theMILT-LIKE TUMOUR OF MUCOUS MEMBRANES. 175 middle of the Bladder ; but found, upon opening the Bladder, that there was no communication between the cavity of the Bladder and the unna- | tural swelling connected with it. •, ' There is another peculiarity in the disease, viz. I' a very remarkable offensive foetor ; and the organ containing such a Tumour, is as much discolour- ed, and emits as foetid a smell, as the same bowel which had been exposed to the air for several ‘ days. ' Of Polypi. Polypi sometimes grow from the Mucous Vil- lous Coat, of which there are the following va- rieties. The first is a circumscribed Tumour, compres- sible, and moveable upon blowing the nose, of a round or oval form, of a grey or light-brown co- 'i lour, semitransparent, with a number of blood- vessels distributed upon its surface ; soft to the touch, easily torn, sometimes solid, sometimes hollow, and filled by a slimy mucus; much af- fected by the state of the weather, shrinking in dry weather, and expanding in moist weather; and when partially destroyed, it rapidly grows again. Such Polypi generally grow from the Ossa Spongiosa of the Nose, or from the Vagina. This kind of Polypus frequently becomes par- tially inflamed, by which it sometimes contracts176 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. adhesions with the cavity within which it grows, and then seems to have several roots. This kind of Polypus very seldom degenerates into Cancer. Richter has described a variety of this Poly- pus, which is tough, and of a pale colour ; and there is a viscid secretion from its surface. * The second kind of Polypus Is generally a small circumscribed Tumour; sometimes it has a nar- row, and sometimes a broad basis, of an oval or pyriform figure, of a red or dark purple colour, perfectly opaque, of a fleshy consistence; hard to .the touch when within reach; not easily torn, nor moveable on blowing the nose ; not at all affected by vicissitudes of the weather. Sometimes it is sta- tionary, then grows rapidly, and attains a large size ; becomes very painful ; sometimes dis- charges a bloody Mucus, and sometimes bleeds when touched. This kind of Polypus often grows from the Pos- terior Nares, from the Pharynx, Gullet, Stomach, Intestines, and Uterus. There are, in some cases, repeated discharges of blood from the Tumour when it is irritated, by which the patient’s strength is much exhausted. Polypi, in many cases, fill up the cavity in which they are Implanted ; sometimes extend- beyond it; and the projecting part expands to a much greater size than the body of the Tumour. ♦ This kind is most frequent in tlie Nose; and is ratluSr an elongation or relaxation of the Mucous Membrane ot the Nose, than a Polypus.-177 OF FUNGOUS TUAIOURS. Owing to the continued pressure of the Tumour, the Membranes ulcerate, and the neighbouring Bones are sometimes destroyed. Thus, when the investing Membrane of the Ossa Spongiosa of the Nose is destroyed, the bones become carious, for they cannot, on account of their thinness, ex- foliate. Sometimes the bones of the Nose are disunited. This kind of Polypus, when divided, is found to be solid, and in some places fibrous ; and re- sembles, in colour and consistence, the unim- pregnated uterus, and is pierced with numerous blood-vessels. There are a few small cavities In some of these Tumours, ♦ which are filled with Lymph. | There is a third kind of Polypus, which is soft, in colour resembling coagulated blood, and dis- charges blood even upon being slightly touch- ed ; and, in the old and debilitated, frequently degenerates into Cancer. Of Fungous Tumours', Fungous Tumours have been observed In every part of the Alimentary Canah Such Tumours are generally of a small, size ; of a very soft consistence ; bleed when torn ; and generally are composed of several lobules. * Vid. Plate XIII. of my Thesis, De Dysphagia. Vid, Plate XIII. of my Thesis, fig. Istj 3d, and 4th. VOL, II. M178 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, « I have neem the Uvula and upper part of the Pharynx covered by a crop of such Tumours, of a small size ; and the Membrane frchn which these grew, was of a dark purple colour ; seemed con- siderably thickened ; and was in some places e- foded. Ulceration also sometimes takes place j and the Fungous Tumours often assume a malig- nant aspect. My Father met with a case of Fungus of the Pharynx, which occupied a considerable share of the Internal Membrane of the Pharynx, and also of the upper part of the Gullet, which was there- by very much thickened, and the patient died from inanition : An Ulceration bad taken place * in some of these Fungous Excrescences. Dr Baillie has described a case of Fungus of the Pharynx, which, when’cut into, appeared to have a fibrous structure, disposed in some mea- sure at right angles to the Inner Membrane upon which it was formed, and was ulcerated on its’ surface. Razoux has described what'he calls a FiingouS'" Tumour, “ Nous trouvames une espece gus d’un pouce et demi d’epaisseur, qui bouchoit exactementTorifice infcrieur de Pestomac ; c’etoit une excroissance form^e par plusieurs couches F- une sur Fautre, qui'partoient toutes du pilore,- eomme d’une racine ou d’un p6dicule commun,- et venoient s’^panou'ir sur la surface de Festomac. Ce fungus etoit compost de cinq ^ six couches asses distinctes d’une substance membraneuse et..179 OP FUNaOUS TUMOURS. tharnue; elle etoit dure en ceitains endroits, et paroissoit presque calleuse. ” * -In ten cases,, my father iound the Villous Coat of the Stomach or of the Intestines in a Fungous state, when before death there had been a dis- charge of a large quantityj of black Bile. When .the Villous Coat has been reduced to this condition, it assumes a pulpy appearance, is jmuch softer, thicker and redder than usual, and iery iirregular on its’surface.' The distinction between the sound and diseased joart is generally very manifest, the latter having at its edges a puckered appearance. , Fungous Tumours of different sizes, some near- ly as large as small .walnuts, sometimes pass across the bowel within which they are lodged. The Villous Coat has sometimes been reduced to a Fungous state, when albuminous matter ha.<» been deposited between the Coats of the Stomach .j and still more frequently in cases of Scirrhus, or Cancer of the Gullet, Stomach, or Intestinal Canal. \ * yid. Tables Nosol. &c. p. 279.-180 OUTLINES OP ANATOMT. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXVIll. This plate, which was engraved from a very highly finiftied drawing by Mr Syme, gives a very good idea of the nature of a Fungous Tumour of the Villous Coat of the Stomach. The Sto- mach was divided nearly perpendicularly, with the view of exhibiting the Morbid state of the Coats of the Stomach, and the degree of con- traction at the Pylorus, produced in consequence of the deposition of matter like the white of an egg between the Villous and Muscular Coats of the Stomach, which had forced inwards the Vil- lous Coat. The albuminous matter is not of an equal thick- ness in every part of the Stomach ; it is consider- ably thicker at the Pylorus ; and formed Tumours which had the effect of straitening the passage through the Pylorus very considerably. The Coats of the Duodenum were in a sound state. All the neighbouring Glands were much en- larged, and there was an unusual determination of blood to them. A and B represent the Cardiac portion of the Stomach, where the Villous Coat is in a sound state. C and D point out the Fungus of the Villous Coat. F, G, H, I, point out the Glands connected •ivith the Stomach, which were in a diseased state. K, the Duodenum in a sound state. IOF HEMORRHOIDS. m Of Hccmon'hoids. Haemorrhoids frequently grow from the Rectum. The more common kind of Haemorrhoids are so- lid, incompressible Tumours, which are not pain- ful on pressure, and which are of different sizes. Tumours composed of a Plexus of Veins, which are of a purple colour, soft and compressible, and which discharge blood, are sometimes met with in the Alimentary Canal, and which have been described by some authors as Haemorrhoids. Of Aphthw, Aphthae are white specks, about the size of ^ millet seed, and surrounded by a red circle j but sometimes they are of a dirty yellow or green colour, which frequently appear on the Mouth, Palate, and back of the Tongue; but at other times they extend downwards to the Gullet, Sto- mach, and Intestines. Villous Coat, Cartilaginous, or Osseous, Small pieces of Cartilage and Bone have occar sionally been observed upon the Villous Coat of the Alimentary Canal.183 OUtLTNEfihOF AKATOMY. . . k i - t. ♦ . » Ofihe Organic Dercmgements of the Cellular Coat ^ • of the Alimentary Canal. The Cellular Coat of the Inteflines sometimes partakes of inflammation, which ha*d begun hi the Villous Coat, and which sometimes passes on to suppuration j by which abscesses of differ- ent sizes take place. ' A quantity of a solid substance, like the white of an egg, is in some instances deposited iri the Cellular Coat of the Alimentary Canal; by which the affected part attains an unnatural hardness and thickness, as in Plate XXVIII. , ‘ ; Organic Derangements of the Muscular Coats of the AUmenfary Canal. The Muscular Coats of the Alimentary Canal become sometimes paralytic,'or are spasmodical- ly contracted; and the Palsy, or Spasm, is gene- rally a partial affection, occupying a small part of the Alimentary Canal. The Spasm, or Palsy, is generally of short du- ration ; but, in other cases, it lasts for several months, or even for years. A Spasm, or'Palsy, sometimes occurs m the Stomach, and in the Intestines; the former oc- casioning Colic.STIUCTURE OF THE ALIMEifTARY CANAL. ISS Of ihe Organic Derangements of the Peritoneal. ' Coat of the Alimentary Canal. The Organic Derangements of the Peritoneal Coat are, Inflammation, which is often succeeded by the effusion of CoagulableDymph, and Adhesion. Ossification is also sometimes observed in the Peritoneal Coat. Stricture of the Alimentary Canal. The Stricture is a temporary or permanent dis- ,ease ; the former originating from an Inordinate Spasmodic Contraction of the Muscular Coat; the latter from a Permanent Organic Derangement of some part of the Alimentary Canal. It seems not improbable, that both these very opposite causes of Obstruction are occasionally combined; as all patients who labour under a Permanent Obstruction, suffer occasionally from a considerable aggravation of the symptoms. Beside the species of Stricture, occasioned by the Villous Coat only, which has already been described, there are two kinds of Stricture, in which all the Coats of the affected part are more or less thickened, and also indurated. The I St may be called the Inflammatory ; the 2d, the Cartilaginous, or Scirrhous Stricture. The fast is met with at all periods of life j is often theOnTLINES OP ANATOMY. I8t immediate consequence of acrid substances being swallowed, of concretions, of dysentery, and of external violence ; and it appears in a short time after the violence has been inflicted. We meet with Strictures of this description in the Urethra, after repeated attacks of Gonorrhsea, and in the Biliary Ducts, from the irritation of Gall stones. Upon dissection, we observe a thickening of all the Coats, especially of the Muscular Coats,' at the seat of the Stricture ; ah effusion of coagu- lable lyniph between them; and the bloodvessels at the seat of the Stricture, which were much enlarged, and distended by blood, forni a net- work upon it; and there is also a quantity of turbid serum effused into the cavity of the Abdomen, when the disease is seated in the Intestines^ The second, or Scirrhous Stricture, is of slow growth; appears only in persons who are far ad- vanced in life, of a sallow complexion, and who are disposed to cancer; or in those whose consti- tutions have been much impaired : and upon dis- section, we meet with a constriction, of an inch in length, of a cartilaginous consistence, and In which there is no appearance of the Coats of the Ali-*. mentary Canal; all'of these having been absorb- ed, and cartilaginous matter been deposited in their stead. This species of Constriction gene- rally terminates in the Cancerous Ulceration. It is very easy to discover the seat of the Stricture; for that part of the Alimentary Canal which is185 DISEASES OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. ;ibove the Stricture is much enlarged ; whereas, that beneath it is much contracted ; and by tracing either of the dilated or contracted portions, we soon discover a part of the Canal which seems much contracted, as by a cord having been put around it, and which had left a purple mark ; and upon pressing this part, it feels heavy and hard. Strictures generally take place at that part of the Canal which is naturally most contracted. The part above the Stricture is much extended, often inflamed, ulcerated, and sometimes eroded. Coats of the Alimentary Canal reduced to a Pulpy ■ State, This peculiar and rare organic derangement of the Coats of the Alimentary Canal, has not, as far as I know, been described by any writer on Pathology. The affected part is much enlarged ; and its Coats, which are much thickened, do not possess their usual firmness; but feel very soft and pulpy, though not of a black colour ; are not dilatable, and emit a very peculiar sweetish smell. There is a quantity of dark-coloured and very offensive bile contained within the Intestines. The Mesen- teric Glands are generally enlarged, and some- times ulcerated.}8S OUTLINES OF ANAT03ir. Of Sdrrhus and Cancer of the Alimentary Canal, This organic derangement is generally limited to a part of the Alimentary Canal. The part diseased has a contracted and irregu- lar form, and feels, on pressure, hard and heavy. The disease generally begins in the Mucous Glands, and is propagated to the Cellular sub- stancei which is converted into a dense Cellular substance. The Peritoneal Coat acquires an unnatural hard- ness, and resembles the coarser kinds of parch- ment, and, in some cases, acquires the transpar- ency of horn; in others, it attains an unnatural thickness. The muscular fibres of the Muscular Coat are seldom to be seen, and, when visible, are gene- rally of a paler colour than natural, and are se- parated from each other by Cartilaginous Septa of dlfl'erent thicknesses in different cases. The Valvulae Conniventes at the seat of the disease are much thickened and enlarged ; and frequently a number of Tumours grow from it towards the cavity of the Stomach, as in Plate X. - In many cases, the disease is slow in its pro- gress ; and a considerable time elapses before the Scirrhous Tumours have attained so considerable a bulk as to obstruct the passage of the food. But in other cases, the progress of the disease is much more rapid, which may perhaps dependor TVTVfHiVticErrtn, I«7 upon the greater or ht$ irritation to which the leased part is exposed. In many cases of Scirrhns, the adhesive pre- cedes the ulcerative process. Thus, life is main- tained, though the Coats of the bowel, which has been primarily diseased, be destroyed by ulcera- tion. ITius, for example, the Stomach adheres to the Liver before, and to the Pancreas behind. If the Scirrhos be so situated as to interrupt the passage through the AHmentary Canal, as at the Cardia or Pylorus, the part above the Stricture becomes prodigiously enlarged, and its Coats are at first much thickened ; but, after a time, they become thinner, and even ulcerated, and at length ruptured, by which an unnatural communication is established between the seat of the disease and the neighbouring parts. Of Intus-Susceptiot A portion of Intestine sometimes passes within another, carrying along with it its Mesentery. The Intestine is then in a state of Intus-Susceptio; and this proves a cause of considerable stricture, the included Intestine being in a contracted state. It has been stated, that the internal Coat of the. Intestine is sometimes invaginated, and forms a complete barrier to the passage of the Alimentary Canal; but this I never have observed. 1 he Intestine passes generally into that imme- diately beneath it, and sometimes in the reverse manner.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 188 The frequency of the first species, may be rea- dily explained from the natural peristaltic motion of the Intestines; whereas the latter can happen only when the peristaltic motion of the Intestine is inverted. A part of the Intestine has been stated to fall within another, merely on account of its weight; but the case of Intus-Susceptio from below up- wards, sufficiently refutes such a theory. An Intus-Susceptio is not peculiar to any one period of life. It is much more common during infancy than in manhood. During infancy, the included portion of Intes- tine may, in most instances, be readily disen-' gaged, there being no unnatural thickening or inflammation, and but a slight diminution in the calibre of the Intestinal Canal. But in the adult, the disease assumes a very different, and much more formidable aspect. The displaced Intestine is firmly fixed in its unnatural situation, in consequence of inflammation, swel- ling, and the accretion of the parts. Indeed, the union between the containing and contained parts, is in some cases so intimate, that ihe'included in- testine cannot be withdrawn ; nay, not even dis- tinguished from the containing Intestine; * and there is at the same time a great contraction of the affected part, * Vtd. my Grandfather’s Obs. on Intus-Susceptio. E- dinb. Med. and Phys. Essays, Vol. II. Art. 27,* nd. Edinb. Phys. Essays, Vol. II. Art. 27. OF INTUS-SUSCEPTIO. ISO In the infant, it is not uncommon to meet with three, four, or five Intus-Susceptions at the same time ; sometimes there is a much greater num- ber, and all in the natural direction. In other instances, some are in the contrary direction; but in full-grown persons, such an appearance seldom presents itself. The extent of the Intus-Susceptio, or of the quantity of Intestine received within the other, varies from one or two, to eight, ten, nay, twenty inches. * Intus-Susceptio is much more common in the smaller, than in the larger Intestines. The Caput Coli has sometimes been found within a part of the Arch of the Colon, or one part of the Arch of the Colon within another, or the under part of the Sigmoid flexure of the Co- lon within the Rectum, or the C^cum; and the whole of the Colon sometimes passes through the Rectum, forming an external swelling, or Proci- dentia Ani. An Intus-Susceptio most frequently takes place when the contiguous Intestines are of unequal di- ameter. Hence the termination of the Ileum sometimes passes within the Colon ; and such a displacement very often proves fatal even to in- fants. The portion of Intestine which is in a state of Intus-susceptio, has sometimes been discharged by stool, and the patient has recovered.drUTLINES OF ANATOMY. l&O Sometimes, though rarely, we meet with a Double Intus-Susceptio. Of Hernice, or Rv/ptures. A Hernia may be defined to be a Tumour, un- connected with a wound, and produced by a bow- el, or part of a bowel, which is not situated in its natural place ; and the Tumour may be either external or internal. * The Hernial Tumour, generally, is external to the cavity uitk which it is connected;’ and formed by the protrusion or prolapse of a bowel from the cavity within which it was originally lodged,’ through a natural opening preternaturally dilated. Hence such swellings appear at the Groin, Scro- tum, Labia Pudendi, bend of the Thigh, and Navel; The protrnded bowels are included within a Sac, which is formed by the elongation of the membrane which lines the cavity from which the protrusion has taken place. Hence the impro- priety of the term Rupture. * Tile definition of Hernia given by Boerhaave in his Prsclectiones Academica;, of which Haller was the Edi- tor, is a very good one. Hernia:) “ Ita vocam’us partiuiii molHum ex membranis Cavis coercentibus dislocationcs in aliena loca, ut adpareat esse quasi luxationem partis naoHis.‘’^—Fid, Tein. VI. p. 51.' ' ,OF HERNIiE, OR RUPTURES. 191 Beside the above species of Hernise, where the bowels have been protruded through what may be called natural openings, there are Ventral Her- nix of the belly, which appear where there is no natural opening : and in these cases, there is ge+ nerally a rupture of theFibres of the Muscles which constitute the Parietes of the belly. There are also Internal Hernice^ of which there are the following varieties, ist, There is an In- ternal Hernia, where there is a small Tumour; as, when a part of the Intestines is engaged with- in the upper part of the Inguinal Canal. 2d, Where there is a Tumour which, on account of the thickness of its coverings, is in most cases scarcely perceptible ; as the Obturator and Ischi- atic Hernias. 3d, Where, at the commencement of the disease, there is in most cases no percep- tible Tumour, but where, in consequence of the duration of the disease, a Tumour appears; as the Perineal Hernia?. 4th, There has a species of Internal Hernia been described, but in my opi- nion improperly, when Stricture, amounting to Strangulation, has been made upon a part of the Intestines, in consequence of an unnatural aper- ture in the Diaphragm, of malconformation of the Omentum, Mesentery, Mesocolon, or of an unnatural Appendix to the Intestines. The diSerent Hernix have been named from their situation, or from the contents of the Her- nial Sac : Hence the terms Exomphalos or Hm*- »iLrcAL Hernia, Bubonocele or Inoujnal'192 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Hernia, Oscheocele or Scrotal Hernia, Merocele or Crural Hernia, Hernia of the Perineum, of the Foramen Ovale, and the IscHiATic Rupture. The Mesentery being longer than the Mesoco- lon, the smaller Intestines are more frequently displaced than the larger, to which the vicinity of the Ileum to the Inguinal and Crural Apertures also contributes. When the Hernial Sac is filled by a portion of the Intestines only, the Tumour has been called Enterocele; and when the Omentum is also in- cluded within the Sac^ the term Entero-Epiplo- cele is used ; and the terms Hepatocele, Spleno» cele, Hysterocele, Cyslocele, are employed, when the Elver^ Spleeiiy Uterus.^ or Bladdei' of Urincy form the contents of the Hernial Tumour. The term Congenite has been used when the bowels are contained within the same Canal as the Testicle ; and also as expressive of the period of life at which that kind of Hernia generally shows itself. Of Inguinal Hemice. The bowels are frequently protruded through the Inguinal Canal; and the Tumour, which ge- nerally is situated before the Spermatic Cord, is covered by Skin, Cellular Membrane, or the su- perficial Fascia, and by the Cremaster Muscle ; and the small branches of the External Pudic Ar-OF INGUINAL HEU^IliE. 193 tery, which is derived from the Superficial Femo- ral Artery, pass between the Skin and the Tu- mour ; and the Epigastric Artery is situated be- tween the Hernial Tumour and the Ossa Pubis. Sometimes the bowels do not pass through the Under Abdominal Aperture, but occupy the space between both the Upper and Under Abdominal Apertures. The Tumour is generally small; it lyes before the Spermatic Cord ; is covered by the Cremaster and the Tendinous Aponeurosis of the External Oblique Muscle ; and the Transverse and Internal Oblique Muscles pass over the neck of the Tu- mour. Sometimes, as in Plate XXIX, there is a large Tumour at the Upper Abdominal Aperture. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXIX. This Plate represents a large Hernia, which was situated at the upper Abdominal Aperture, and in which the strangulation was occasioned by that aperture. A. Represents the Hernial Tumour. B. B. Ihe Bowels passing into the Tumour. • C. J he Omentum passing into the Tumour. D. D. The Paiietes of the Abdomen turned down. . VOL. II. Noutlines OF ANATOMY. 194- When the Bowels only pass through the un- der Abdominal Aperture, the disease has been named Ventro-Inguinal Hernia; and the Epigas- tric Artery then is situated between the anterior Spinous process of the Ilium, and the Hernial Tumour. When there is a malconformation of the In- guinal Canal, owing to a deficiency of the small connecting fibres, which arise from the Crural Arch, the Hernial Tumour is situated nearly as a Crural Hernia. Of Crural Hernia. In this Hernia, the Bowels are protruded through the Crural Aperture. A Crural Hernia is generally of a small size, rarely larger than a walnut: in a few instances, the swelling can scarcely be said to form an ex- ternal Tumour. A Crural Hernia has not only the irregular surface of an Inguinal Lymphatic Gland, but also communicates the same sensation when pressed ; indeed, the Hernial Tumour is, in many cases, in part covered by the Inguinal Glands. The figure of the Hernial Tumour, when de- tached from the other parts, is very different from that of an Inguinal Hernia ; it has a long narrow neck, of an uniform diameter, and then suddenly expands into a body, the breadth of which is ge- nerally greater than its length.OF THE VAUIETIF.S OF CRURAL IIERXIA. 195 Crural Hernice are generally filled by a portion of Intestine, and frequently by a process of Intes- tine which is somewhat like the finger of a glove ; which has hence been called Diverticulum. The Spermatic Cord and round Ligament are rather more than half an inch distant from the mouth of the Sac of the Hernia, and oh the upper and Ilial side of it. Of the Varieties of Crural Ilemia* There are several varieties of this disease. ist, The most common land of Crural Hernia is that in which the bowels are protruded through the Crural Aperture into the Lymphatic Sheath, which is thereby much distended and protruded. In this instance, the Hernial Tumour is situat- ed on the Pubal side of the Femoral Vein, and is covered by the Fascia Propria, * which is ra- * The Fascia Propria has been tlius described by its dis- coverer, Mr Astley Cooper. “ A thin fascia naturally covers the opening, through which the Hernia passes, and descends on the posterior part of the Pubes. When the Hernia therefore enters the sheath, it pushes this fascia be- fore it, so that the Sac may be pei’fectly drawn from its, inner side, and the Fascia which covers it left distinct. The Fascia, which forms the Crural Sheath, and in which are placed the hole or holes for the absorbent vessels, is also protruded fpnvards, and is united with the other, so that, ihe two become thus consolidated into one. If a laro^y Net196 OUTLINES OF ANATO.W. ther thicker than the healthy Peritonajum, under which a small quantity of fat is found between it and the Hernial Sac. The neck of the Hernial Tumour is covered by the upper insertion of the Falciform process of the Fascia Lata ; and the Epigastric Artery is situated on the Ilial side of the Tumour, and about an inch from it. In the second variety of Crural Hernia, ttie protrusion of the bowels takes place through an aperture in the membrane which passes across the Crural Aperture ; a Lymphatic Gland which had filled up that aperture, having been displaced, and pushed to the Ilial side of the Crural Hernia. The stricture in this instance is sometimes oc- casioned by the sides of the aperture through which the protruded Intestine had passed. This variety is peculiar, in wanting the Fascia Propria. The third variety of Crural Flernia is that in which the protruded bowels pass into the sheath surrounding the Femoral Lymphatics, and then escape by one of the apertures, through which the Lymphatic Vessels enter the Sheath, as has Hernia is examined, this Fascia is only found to proceed upwards, as fur as the edge of the orifice on the inner side of the Crural Sheath, by which the Hernia descends; but In a small Hernia it passes into the Abdohicn as far as the Peritonscum, and forms a pouch, from w^hich the Hernial Sac may be withdrawn, leaving this, forming a, complets bag over the Hernia. ” /OF THE VARIETIES OF CRURAL HERNIA. 197 been accurately described by Mr A, Cooper. The Tumour has not a well defined edge, being covered by the Fascia Lata of the Thigh. In this Hernia, the strangulation may be occa- sioned by the border of the Sheath. The fourth is that variety of Crural Hernia where the Tumour passes through the Ilial side of the Lymphatic Sheath, into the Sheath of the Fe- moral Vein. The Flernial Tumour is originally situated on the Pubal side of the Femoral Vein, having the semi-lunar fold of the Fascia Lata stretched across its neck; and the Epigastric Artery is situated on the Ilial side of the swelling ; and its termination is placed in front of the Femoral Vein, distending the Sheath of that vessel. In the ffth variety of this disease, there are two Tumours ; the one escapes into the Sheath of the Vein, the other into that of the Lymphatic Vessels. Mr A. Burns discovered this variety ; and from his preparation the figure above alluded to is taken. In this instance, the Obturator Artery passed between the Hernias, and encircled the Tumour next the Os Ilium. Mr Burns, speaking of this variety of Crural Hernia, has remarked, “ When this happens in a person in whom the Obturator Artery comes off by the short origin from the Epigastric Artery, the former vessel will to a certainty encircle thepb^TLINEfi Oi’ ANATOMY. 19'8 Pubal side of the neck of the Ilial Sac. If, how- ever, the Obturator Artery and the Epigastric continue connected for a considerable distance from their origin ; and if one Herniary Tumour pass into the Sheath of the vein, and another e- scapes into the common Sheath of the Lymphatics, then both Sacs will be transversed on their upper margins by the Obturator Artery, and the Tu- mour of the Lymphatic Sheath will likewise have the same vessel on its Pubal side. I have never seen this variety in the course of the Obturator Artery ; but I dissected the body of an aged wo- frian last summer, in which I found one Sac in the sheath of the Lymphatics, and another in the sheath of the Vein. In this subject, the Obtura- - tor and Epigastric Arteries came off by a short trunk from the external Iliac; and the Obturator, in its way to the Thyrdid Foramen, encircled the neck of the Sac contained in the Venous Sheath. J This new variety of arrangement of the Obtura- tor Artery shows, that the general opinion re- specting the safety of cuttihg toward the Pubes, in those cases where the conjoined trunk of the Epigastric and Obturator is short, is not well founded. In this female we have seen, that al- though the common trunk of these vessels be very short, y6t from the Ilial Tumour descending into the sheath of the Vein, the neck of that Sac is en- circled by the Obturator Artery. ** The is a frequent variety of Crural Her- pia. The displaced bowels, in the first place, de*OF THE VARIETIES OF CRURAL HERNIA. 199 \ scend in a direction perpendicular to the Abdo- men, and lye over the Pectineus muscle ; the Tu- mour is therefore very moveable. In consequence of the connexion of the Falciform Process of the * fascia with Poupart’s Ligament, and the dura- tion of the disease, the Tumour is frequently re- flected over the Crural Arch, and is covered by the superficial fascia, skin, and cellular substance only. From the great looseness of the cellular sub- stance at the sides of the Tumour, it extends la- terally, so that the transverse is the longer diame- ter of the Tumour. This kind of Hernia some- times attains a considerable bulk, as in the annex- ed Plate (which is only half the size of nature) j or as in a case my Father met with, in which the Hernial Tumour was in size equal to both his fists. In this variety of Hernia, the Hernial Sac is remarkably thin, &c.; so that the vermiform con- tractions of the protruded portion of Intestine are visible, and the neck of the Tumour forms nearly a right angle with its body. In the seventh variety of Crural Hernia, the protruded bowels primarily enter the sheath of the Lymphatic Vessels, and then pass through holes for the transmission of vessels in the Falciform Process, and in the Superficial Fascia. The Tu- mour is in a great measure immoveable, and bears a very strong resemblance to enlarged InguinalOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 200 Glands. A-central fluidity or elasticity III the Tumour, derived from the contents of the displacr ed portion of Intestine, is the chief circumstance which characterizes this variety of Crural Hernia. The eighth variety of Crural Hernia cannot be distinguished by an external examination. In this, the Obturator Artery arises from the same trunk as the Epigastric Artery. The common trunk being an inch long, the Obturator Artery, in its course to the Obturator Aperture, sweeps around the neck of the Hernial Tumour on its .Vubal side. I have met with three cases of this I • • • description. On account of the small size of the Crural Ring, and unyielding nature of the surrounding parts, a considerable pressure is made on the pro- truded bow'd ; and it is niore difficult to return the displaced parts than in Inguinal Hernia. The pressure very often causes acute inflammation ; and hence the contents of the Tumour are fre- quently covered by coagulable lymph, which binds the contents of the Tumour to each other, or to the neck, or some other part of the Sac. Umhilical Hernia. In this Hernia, the Bow^els are protruded through the Umbilical Ring, or at the side of the contents of the Abdomen. Th is Hernia is most frequent amongst children,, and women who have had several children j andOF THE CONGENITAL HERNIA. 201 the Plernial Sac is remarkably thin, and sometimes ruptured. Congenital Hernia. In this Hernia, the protruded bowels pass down through the same canal as the Testes, in conse- quence of that canal remaining open ; so that the displaced portion of Intestine envelops the Testicle. Sometimes the protruded Bowels, and their 'containing Sac, are included within the Tunica Vaginalis Testis, as in the Hernia described by Mr Key. There is a process of Peritonaeum which passes through the under Abdominal Aperture of the female, over the round ligament of the Uterus, into which the bowels sometimes insinuate them- selves. This has been called Congenital Hernia of the Female. Ventral Hernia, This kind of Hernia is occasioned by the rup- ture of a part of the Parietes of the Abdomen; for the Bowels are not protruded at any of the natural apertures in the Parietes. Internal Hei'nicc. Internal are much more rare than External Hernia, and occur from the Bowels passing. OUTLINES OF ANATOJIY. 202 through unnatural apertures in the Mesentery, Mesocolon, or Diaphragm ; or by an unusual e- longation of the Omentum; which passing around a portion of Intestine, produces symptoms of strangulation. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXX. This Engraving represents a case, in which the bowels were protruded through the Mesentery, and strangulated. The figures i, 2, 3, 4, point out the successive turns of the Ilium. Of Intestinal IVoniis. TyENIiE. Several species of Taenia or Tape-worm, are peculiar to the human body. Before proceeding to the description of the spe- cies, it may be proper to make some general re- marks on the Anatomical Structure of the genus, which, although chiefly drawn from the examina- tion of Taenia Solium, may be considered as ap- plicable to all the species.203 of INTESTINAL WORMS. Anatomical Structure. This animal is covered by an elastic and porous membrane, which, when examined by a micro- scope, seems smeared with a tenacious liquid, which exudes through the pores. Under the membrane, some scattering fibres of a white colour are seen, the external of which are fixed into the inferior margin of each joint, and are disposed in a longitudinal manner ; the Inner set of fibres following a transverse course. The Alimentary Canal, which takes its rise from the mouth, divides into two distinct Canals, which pass along the margins of the joints: and in the last joint, these Canals are Impervious. Besides these longitudinal marginal tubes, there are transverse Canals which pass across the inferior margin of each joint, and communicate with the longitudinal Canals. These Canals were first Injected by Ernest. * Besides the above Canals, there is a pretty large Canal in the centre of each joint, (which was in- jected with quicksilver by my Father, and which has been particularly described by Dr F. Palmer, in his Thesis), which divides somewhat like a tree into a number of small lateral branches, which communicate with the Lateral Oscula, by small openings. * Vid. ^Jallek, DIsput. Med, Vol. III.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 204< 'I’hls system of vessels is generally filled by a white fluid, and has hence been supposed to be subservient to the generation of the animal, and, on account of the course of its smaller branches, has been called the Arborescent Ovaria. AH the species of Tceniae are said to be Herma- phrodite. Knots have been frequently observed in the Worm, which has led to the supposition, that as two pairs of the Oscula were in contact, the Worm was ill a state of copulation. This worm consists of a head, a chain of arti- culations, and a tail formed of a round joint j these articulations are quadrangular. The head is placed at the smaller, and the tail, which has an oval termination, at the larger ex- tremity of the worm. There are some who do not admit that the terms Head and Tail are cor- rect ; because each joint has its proper vessels, and is probably a separate animal, and capable of existing, independently of the other joints. The head is placed upon a sort of neck or con- tracted part of the worm, and when strictly exa- mined by the aid of a microscope, seems some- what of a square shape. In it there are five aper- tures. The one in the centre, which is circular, is the mouth of the animal, and is surrounded by a double margin, and a number of rays, which describe small portions of a circle, between which there are little projecting substances which pro-205 OF THE TiENIA. t bably serve the purpose of tentacula, for fixing the orifice of the mouth. There are four oval- shaped apertures placed near to the angles of the square-shaped head. Species of Tamia. Instead of adopting the arrangements of authors, I have resorted to nature, and selected from the Musuem of the University of Edinburgh, those specimens of this kind of vrorm, in which the dif- ferent characters were most distinctly marked. From a careful examination of these, my inge- nious friend and pupil. Dr W. E. Leach, who is distinguished for his accurate knowledge of Entomology, drew out the following new specific characters: I. TiENiA Solium. Articulis quadratis, elonga- to aut transverso-quadratis j osculis pone me- dium insertis. Lecich^ MS. Tscnla Solium.—Linn. Syst. Nat. eel. XII. 1323. Faun. Suec. 22G4. Taenia Osculis Marginalibus. Hooper in Mem. Med. Soc. Land. Tom. V. p. 257. Figura pessima, > Taenia Elongata.—Herman, Mem. Helminth, hujus varietas. Habitat in Homints Europcei intestinis frequentissime. This species, which is by far the most common, may be distinguished from all others inhabiting206 OUTLINES OF ANAT03IY. the human body, by the situation of its mouth, which is invariably placed behind the middle of the lateral margin. The mouth is sometimes placed on the right, and sometimes on the left side indillerently. The form of the Ovarium af- fords no specific character, and is therefore omit- ted in this description. This worm is generally several feet, nay, even yards, long, and is seldom passed entire; single joints are often evacuated by stool, and were formerly supposed to be a dis- tinct genus of worms, and sometimes called gourd- \i'ornis. Vermes cucurhitmi. 2. T. Dentata. Articulis brevibus, transver- so-quadratus, posticfe marginatis ; osculis medio insertis; margine posteriori dilatato ; ovariis obscuris. Leach, MS. Tccnia Dentata, capite acuminate sessili, articulis trans- verse striatis, omnibus dilatatis, brevioribus; osculo in raarginis lateralis utriusque medio elatiore. Batsch, Ban. Gmelin, 3073. Habitat Mus. MQnro. 5. T. Lata. Articulis brevissimis, medio nodo- sis, postice marginatis ; osculis prominulis me- dio insertis. Leach, MS. Tania Lata, Candida, articulis brevissimis, medio nodo- sis ; osculis solitariis. Linn. Syst. Nat. XII. 1324. Habitat in hominis intestinis in Britannia rarissirae; in Russia et Helvetia frequentior.207 OF THE TiENIA. These three species have the osculas in the mar- gin of the segments. The last must not be confounded with the Tconia Lata OscuUs Superjicialibiis Hooper in the Memoirs of the Medical Society of London, which .ceitainly belongs to another genus, and is not, as he considered it, the Tccnia Lata of LiNNiEUS. A species, under the name of Tcmm Vulgaris, is noticed by Linnjeus, as frequently occurring in Sweden, having two oscula on each joint; but as such has never come under my inspection, I can only quote the words of Linnaeus: “Habi- tat in hominum intestinis, Suecia vulgatior, per- tinasissirae infixa, ut violentioribus etiara remediis resistat; tenuis, laxa, quasi raembranacea, Solio tenacior, vivens lactescens subpellucida, lo—16 pedes longa, et fine latiore ultra 4 et ^ lineas lata, articulis nunc quadratis nunc paulo magis ohlon- gis, medio secundum longitudinera subtiliter stria- tis, ad latera transverse rugosis, ovariis floruin corollam referentibus. Having finished our account of the Taenim, we proceed to that of the Ascarides, or Round Worms. Round Worms. There are three species of Round Worms : theOUTLINES OP ANATOMY. 208 ■ Jscans Vermicidaris, Ascaris Liimhricoides, and Trkhuris Hominis. Ascaris Vermicidaris. AscarideSj when recently discharged, are nearly transparent. This is the smallest, and most common species of Worm, and is found generally in the Rectum. They are about half an inch in length, and divid- ed into three parts. The head, in which three vesicles may be observed, with an aperture in the middle, is obtuse, and the tail ends in a sharp point. This Worm has a distinct cuticle, cutis vera, and annular muscles. The male seems to have only an CEsophagus, Stomach, and Intestines. The Stomach is a round bag, situated at the sides of the CEsophagus; this, according to Goeze, constitutes a distinguishing character of the species. The male organs of generation have not as yet been detected. . In the female, the apparatus for generation is visible. It begins as a slender tube, from a small opening, which is situated near the middle of the body ; it gradually becomes larger, and surrounds the Intestinal Canal. The Uterus is hot bifurcated as in the Ascaris Lumbricoides; and its end is as large as any other part of it..OF. THE ASCARIS LUMBRICOIDES* 209 Ascaris Lumhricoides» This Worm has generally been called Lumbri- cus. it was formerly supposed to be the same as the Earth-worm, but it is very'distinct. It has a round body, and is generally from six to’fifteen inches in length. The smallest are whitish, and almost transpa- rent, when examined soon after they have been passed; the larger are of a greenish yellow co- lour. They are very prone to putrefaction; the largest sooner putrefy than the smaller. I have seen the largest burst in the^ course of a day or two after being voided. The head is divided into three lobes,'which are joined at their bases, betwixt which the mouth of the animal, which is of a triangular form, iS placed. The Anus of the animal opens a little way from the extremity of the Worm, upon the under surface of the Worm, by a turved fissure. The body has a rugose appearance ; and there are four lines, placed nearly at equal distances, 'which pass along the animal. Two of these are much more apparent than the otherj from being much broader. By these lines, fibres, probably circular mus- cles, are intersected in such a manner, that each consists of two semicircular portions. vol; it* OOUTLINES OK 'XNA'IrOiNlY. 2\0 Anatomical Structure. The animal has a strong, thin, elastic cuticle. The true skin is also elastic and transparent, and thicker than the former. The muscles, which are seen through the skin, do not surround the Worm, but are, according W Dr Hooper, two distinct sets of muscles which act in opposition to each other ; and each of the two longitudinal lines, ^vhlch extend from the head to the tail of the Worm, are composed of two'dis- tinct tendons, which serve for the attachmient of the Semilunar Muscles, which cover the tvhole of the Worm. The cuticle and true skin are so transparent, that I have been able to distinguish the sex of the animal through these. The Abdomen, which is lined by a fine mem- brane, which may be calfed Peritonasum, contains a transparent fluid, the Intestinal Tube, and ah apparatus subservient to generation. The' Oesophagus, at its beginning, Is small. It continues increasing in size. In the Abdomen, where it may be called Stomach or IntestinaTCa- nal, it is capable of receiving a common-sized surgeon’s probe; and about a 4*^arter of an inch from the Anus, it becomes narrower and straighten The Alimentary Tube is filled by greenish matter.OF THE A'SCARIS LUMBRtCbtlfES. 211 Sorfie have' stipposed thisf Wdtrit to be Herrriai- phrodit-ej' but the sexe^ generally appear dis- tinct. ^ ■ • I have remarked,^ that the females are larger, and more ntumerous than the males y- arid are ge- nerally in the proportion of four or fivd to one. The parts of generation begin, or rather ter- minate, near the middle of the Worm, by a slender tube, which opens about the middle of the animal. This tube soon becomes larger. It is then call- ed Uterus'. It divides^ into*two Canals, which are considerably larger than the Uterus; then sud- denly diminishes in size; and at last terminates in a number of small opaque threads, which float in the lowest part of the belly, and embrace the Intestines. These smallest floating tubes'are never empty, but are filled with an opaque fluid, in which there are a number of globular bodies floating. In the male, the small’ tubes lead to a' larger tortuous GanaU which may be called Vesicula Seminalis, which is rather more than an inch long, is unequal in its'diameter, and follows some- what of a tortuous course; and to the extremity of this,ia coniCal'shaped body, w'hich may be call- ed'Penis, is connected*by its base. Some authors have supposed that these Worms are viviparous j which appearance is produced by O 2OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. H12 a part of the appendages of the Uterus having burst through the integuments of the animal. As a proof that they are oviparous, I may add, that Ovula, in all respects similar to those found within the Uterus, have been detected in the Mu- cus surrounding the Intestines. Trichuris Hominis. This species is more rare than any of the above Worms. It was described and shown by my Fa- ther, in his Lectures in 1794, as an Intestinal Worm. The body is about an inch long, and it has a filiform tail, about one inch and a half in length. Different authors vary in their opinions respect- ing the anatomy of this Worm. According to some, the animal has a proboscis, which it can eject at pleasure. According to Goeze, that is the Penis of the animal. The Stomach and Intestines form a long Canal, which proceeds from the head to the extremity of the Worm; is^ largest at its beginning j and is much smaller at the tail of the animal. ’ The Ovarium, .which frequently contains Ovu- la and a limpid fluid, is a convoluted Canal, and similar to that- of the female Ascaris Vermi- cularis.213 OF THE TRICHURTS HOMINIS. Besides the species of Worms already treated of, others of a very different description have been occasionally discharged by stool. I allude, in particular, to Caterpillars, or the Larvae of Insects. * Authors on tlie Organic Derangements of the Alimentarij ' Canal. Eller, de Cognos. et Curand. Morb. Baillie’s Morbid Anatomy of the Human Body, 4th Edition. * I sent, for examination, several specimens of them to Dr Leach, who favoured me with the subjoined Report. “ They are all the Larvae of Insects, as follow: No. 1. The ova of the Musca Vomitoria. My friend Donovan informed me, that he had seen the Larva of this insect in the intestines of a body (in Windmill-Street) in a state of putrefaction. The eggs most probably were depo- sited at the mouth, or anus; and the Larvae had found their way thither, on their hatching, which soon happens. ^ “ Nos. 2. 3. and 4. Larvae of three unknown species of Coleopterous insects. No. 3. is Bgured in the Medical Journal, Vol. VIII. p, 48. fig. 8. I am pretty certain, that it is what the farmer terms the Wire-Worm, Of what insect it is the larva, will soon be made known, as Sir J. Banks, at this time, is breeding a great many, in order to ascertain) this important fact. “ Nos. 5. & 7. the Larvae of Papilio Brassicac, or some species much allied to it. “ No. 6. Pupa of some Musca.—Species imknowu to me.21^ , OUTLINES p|- ANATO^. Du Haen, Ratio Medcnd. Vol. IV. Morgagni, Sedibus e,t Gau^s, Lit. ^XXV. J. G. A\^alter’s iCatalpgue of his Museum. Astley Cooper onTJcrnia.’ Lawrence on Hernia. T\/T ''pr • 1 "Tx 1 ' • ‘ V ^ ^fT' frrc * . My 1 liesis cle Dysphagia. My Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, and In- testines, in which the different Authors on Particular Organic Derangements are qiiotal. ' « Authors on Intestinal Wonns. Phil. Trans. 1683. Redi Franc. Osscryazioni Intorno ^pimali Vi- venti, cjie si trovano hegli ^ipi^ J^iven^. Fi- renze 1684. Cler. Daniel, flistoria Naturalis et Medica latorura Lumbricorum intra Flominem et iilia Animalia, nas- centium j eX variis Auctoribus, ci proprii^ Obspry^- tionibus, &c. Genevas, 1715. Pallas, Dissert, de Infestis Yiventibus iptra Yiventia. Lugduni-Batavorum, 1760. Fysche Palmer, Tentamcn Med. Jnaugurale De V-cr- mibus intestinorum. Edinburgi, 1766. Andry, Trait6 de la Generation des Vers, 3ieme Edit. AVerner, D. E. F. yermium Intestinalium, praeser- tim Taeniae Humanae brevis Expdsitio. Lipsiiie 1782. Continuatio prima,’ secunda, et tertia. Curante I. L. Fischer. Lipsiae 1782, 1786, 1788. 8yo. Goeze I. A. E. A^ersuch eincr Naturgeschichte der Eingeweide-wurmer Thierischer Koerjier. Leipsig, 1787. Bloch, Traite de la Generation des A’^ers cles Intestins, et des Vermiftiges. Strasbourg, 1788. Brer A, Lezioni Medico-Practiche sopra I Principali Vermi del Corpo umano vivente e le cosi dette MaJattic215 AUTHORS ON INTESTINAL WORMS, &C. Verminose.—The figures of the Worms appended to this book, are by far the best which I have seen, and were drawn and engi’aved by Anherloni. Entozoorura, sive Vermium, Intestinalium Historia Naturalis, Auct. Cakolo Asmundo Rudolphi. 3 Vol. Linnean Transactions. JoERDENS J. H. Entoinologie und Helminthologie des Menschlichen Koei'pers, III. T. Hof. 1801, 1802. Fol. Engravings of Hernice, and the Organic Derangements of the Alimentary Canal. Camper on Hernia. JSoEMMERiNG on Umbilical Hernia. Mr Astley Cooper’s Plates of the different lands of Hernias. Plates annexed to my Observations on Crural Hernia. Dr Baillie’s Fasciculi of Plates, illustrative of his Morbid Anatomy. The Plates in my Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Sto- mach, and Intestines.■ 'i ^>^1? •;i*v>*rvA • --T . _ ^ # ^ emi6y/■ ^ »'ir»?< >v#;i I J*K.i >i:; fA(i yn «r. ,i'o ,r| ^ . -r- ^J, . knr ■« v.- „ f««'J;.(tiU‘>2ui ^ 'I y " <4= z 2'.,^ ji-.. - V," -, ■ t 1 trummii'iT.'OX ^ ' Vj^ir-rt'-r^ JiT I »t>'.'l<2/<M>’ •SO,; .f'OK^ f * i 14 >ti(t>J**t'>A^- •,., ;• : .K1 T" V- , . . ■■?■,. .U • t"vwO - .'•*n<.«Vt, iki.'. , > • •** vi T : Tft. . ,..jyb^ai. «iw *inin#\»' .'2 . jjia uw -^y io4^ tit^'4i*r“l ij *ili®', '*; 1 . !i*'(i:o’) if/ - ^'*r* M f _ -.: Ai ' ■ i* .)■ Mti* ' ' ■uM' .V,. • n I -. 'JtMt I » - . >1. ■■^' I Vi •* • • • ^ , ^ ».- • c •r’^ T'> * ■ ■‘t^ t- Lii«'. 1ft ■^iV' vMi.. . fv . >:_ Wi. 'fc 'e«<..-*.. -• »^'>''_- '■'i|fea%_‘... ''.^ ’ :m 'r' . •I*'- ^ ■•' tv •■iW » *, •. . , *• ■ »-t" 1 • ^ • T \ ' ' ^ - •« r.. h -\ 1 iPART V.219 OF THE LIVER OF TflE APULT. CHAPTER I. ©F THE ASSISTANT CHYLOPCETIC VISCERA- TsfE assistant Chylopqetic Viscera are, the Juiver^ Spk^i, Pancr^aSy and Omentum* Sect. I. OF THE LIVER OF THE ADULT. The Liver, the largest gland of the human bo- dy, is of a dark red colour, inclining to yellow, and occupies the uppermost part of the cavity of the Abdomen, being in contact with the Dia- phragm, and corresponding in shape with the under part of the Chest, by the cartilages of which it is covered and protected. The size of the Liver varies a little in different individuals of the same age, weighing between two and four pounds Troy. The Liver of the Foetus extends far beyond the margin of the Chest, andoutlines of anatomy. 220 occupies a very considerable share of the cavity of the Abdomen ; and the younger the foetus, the greater the bulk of the Liver. The Liver is fixed to the neighbouring parts by the membrane called Peritonaeum, which is de- scribed by anatomists as forming its Ligaments, though these bear no analogy to the other liga- ments of the body. The uppermost ligament of the Liver is In shape like a sickle, on which account it has been named the Falciform Ligamait, or from its supposed office. Suspensory Ligament. This ligament may be readily seen by making incisions perpendicu- larly downwards from the breast bone on each side of the Recti Muscles, as far down as the Navel, and by then cutting across and raising the Recti muscles. It is thin and transparent, excepting at 'its under part; and extends backwards from the sheath of the Recti Muscles, and from the Ensi- form Cartilage of the Sternum, becoming gradu- ally broader, and is fixed obliquely to the Liver, where it divides into its two component layers, to form the Lateral Ligaments ()f the Liver, which are fixed to the right and left sides,of the body. The Umbilical Vein of the Feetus, which is shrivelled, and changed into a rounded ligament, forms the under rounded part of the Falciform Ligament, Between the layers of the Falciform Ligament, there is a small proportion of cellular substance.OF THE LIVER OF THE ADULT. 221 and a number of Lymphatic vessels proper to the upper convex surface of the Liver, which pass upwards to the Chest.* The Coronary or Posterior lAgament of the Liver connects the middle of the posterior part of the Liver to the Diaphragm. Besides the above reflections of the Perltonseum, there is a portion of the membrane which extends between the Liver and right Kidney, and which has been named by Haller the Ligamentum Hepato-Renale. The above author has also described a portion 'of the Peritonaeum, which extends between the Liver and Gall-Bladder, across the Duodenum to the Colon, under the name Ligamentum Hepato- Colicum. The above ligaments have been stated by some anatomists to retain the Liver in a certain place; but, during life, the Liver is support- ed by the contiguous bowels, and changes its place as they change their situation ; it descends, for instance, when the Stomach and Intestines are empty, and during inspiration ; and is pushed upwards during the latter months of pregnancy, and by diseases of the Viscera of the belly. Upon lying on the right side, the Liver is supported by the Cartilages of the false Ribs; but when we turn to the left, the Stomach is compressed by the weight of the Liver : hence we do not sleep so soundly on the left as on the right side. The figure of the Liver is adapted to the form229 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY* of the under part of the Chest, within which it is? placed, obliquely inclining downwards to the right side. The upper surface of the Liver, which corres- ponds with the concavity of the Diaphragm, is, upon a superficial examination, convex upon its upper surface; but, upon a more minute examina- tion, is found not to be perfectly uniform on its surface, for it is impressed by the heart, to which it is opposed. The Liver is divided into two great Lobes, whichj in the full grown person, are very unequal in point of bulk; that of the right side being much larger than the left. The right Lobe occupies the right Hypochon- driac Region, and a part of the Epigastric Re- gion ; and is in contact with the Pylorus, Colon, and upper part of the right Kidney. The left Lobe of the Liver is placed horizon- tally, and occupies a part of the left Hypochon- driac and Epigastric Regions. The under surface is much more irregular than its upper ; there are several remarkable eminences and fossae, which are filled by Bloodvessels, and also depressions made by the contiguous Viscera-. The raising the Liver also exposes the very un- equal thickness of this gland, which is thick and rounded where it is fixed to the, Diaphragm by means of the reflection of the Peritonaeum, called Coronary Ligament, but which becomes gradually thinner towards its fore part, which has henceOF THE LTVEE OF THE 'ATJOLT. 225 been named its edge ; and it is also manifest that it declined in thicknes’s from the right to the left side. The edge of the Liver is inclined backwards, and does not 'describe "an uniform line ; but is notched; and opposite to the grooTC, which di- vides the Liver from before backwards, called Fossa Umbilicalis. The more remarkable prominences on the' un- der surface of^the'Liver are, a projection inclining downwards, and towards the right side, from its posterior thickened part; the figure of which is somewhat triangular, or somewhat like the tongue, but considerably thicker ^towards its base than its apex, which has been called the third Lobe^ or Lobule of SpiGELitss ; and this Lobule rests oh the Vertebrae between the Vena Cava and Gullet. A rounded part of the Liver passes between the 'Gall-Bladder and passage for the Umbili- cal Ligament, downwards from the above Lobe to the right Lobe, serving to connect the above Lobe to the right Lobe ; which, bearing a distant resemblance to the tail of an animal, has been named the Processus Caudatus of the Liver. Upon the under surface of the right Lobe, there is a portion of the Liver which is somewhat of a square figure, or of the form of a parallelo- gram, which, from its shape, has been named the Lobulus Qiiadratus, or Lobulus Anmpnus of Haller. In the concave part of the Liver there are ea* '224. OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. vities for the bloodvessels, and also several de- pressions made upon the Liver by the contiguous bowels. There is a large and deep cavity extending from before backwards, of which the large notch in the edge of the Liver constitutes the fore part; which, from containing the Umbilical Vein, has been named the Fossa Umbilicalis. This Fossa runs backwards between the Lobule of Spigelius, and the left Lobe, becoming nar- rower in its course backwards, where it lodges the Canalis Venosus, which, in the adult, like the Umbilical Vein, is converted into a Ligament. The Fossa Umbilicalis is sometimes in part ' covered by a thin layer of the Liver, and thus formed into a distinct canal. . There is a much larger Fossa extending across the Liver in the transverse direction, called Sulcus Tra7isversus; this large Fossa is bounded before by the Lobulus Anonymus, and behind by the third Lobe ; which Lobes have deen described by authors as forming the Portse of the Liver. Jn this Fossa are contained, the trunk of the Vena Portae, its two great Branches, the Hepatic Artery, Nerves, the common Biliary Duct, and many Lymphatic Vessels and Lymphatic Glands-, united by Cellular Substance. Between the third Lobe and right Lobe of the Livery there is a Fossa for the Vena Cava, which vein serves in some measure the office of a Liga- ment.'225 OF THE LIVER OF THE ADULT. The depressions upon the under surfaces of the Right Lobe, which lodge the Gall-Bladder, He- patic Flexure of the Colon, Right Kidney, and Renal Capsule, and also that on the Left Lobe, which corresponds with the Stomach, merit at- tention, as pointing out the relative situation of one bowel to another. . The upper and under surfaces of the Liver are remarkably smooth, and have a shining appear- ance, being covered by the Peritonaeum. The Peritoneal covering is internally irregular, and intimately attached to a very thin Coat, which not only covers the surface, but also enters into the substance of the Liver, and may be seen pass- ing around the larger branches of the Vena Porta- rum, on making a section of the Liver. This second Coat seems to be merelv condens- j ed cellular substanccj and does not exhibit a fi- brous structure; and is not, like the Peritoneal Coat, elastic and extensible. The substance of the Liver is very readily bro- ken down. On pressing the Liver between the fingers, it may be readily broken down ; and a number of small hard bodies, of different figures, and a- bout the size of a millet seed, may be perceived. These are what have been named the Acmi of the lAven VOL. II. POUTLINES OF ANATOMV. 22G Of the Blood- Vessels of the Liver. Ihe Liver receives blood from two different sources ; viz. from the Vena Portarum, and front the Hepatic Artery. The Vena Portarum is formed by the junction of the Veins of the Chylopoetic Viscera. It is a very peculiar vessel; for it is a vein, and formed by veins ; but, like an artery, it divides into branches, which are distributed through the Liver, and, like arteries, perform secretion. The Liver also receives blood by means of a branch of the Cxliac Artery, which has been called Hepatic ; and which, when compared with the great size of the Liver, is but of small calibre. Sect. II. OP THE SOURCE OF THE DILE. The Bile has been commonly stated to be se- creted from Venous Blood, which is of a dark I colour ; whereas, all the other secreted fluids are derived from the florid Arterial Blood. It has been disputed, whether or not Follicles be interposed between the extreme branches of the Hepatic Artery, and Vena Portarum, and the origins of the Biliary Ducts ; and also, whether all the Bile be derived from the'Vena Portarum, or from the Hepatic Artery. My Father, who has devoted much attention to the structure'of227 OF THE SOUtlCE OF THE BItE* Glands, and who has made many microscopical observations upon these, after filling, with great success, the Biliary Ducts, is of opinion, that the Acini of the Liver are solely made vp of cylindri- cal vessels. That the Bile is formed by the Vena Portarum, is no doubt probable from the very circumstance of an additional vessel being jjroper to the Liver; as well as from the large size of that vessel^ wldch is capable of containing four times as much blood as the Hepatic Artery : beside, its branches are distributed over every part of the Liver, and com- municate with those of the Hepatic Duct. The Hepatic Artery alone has commonly been stated by authors to nourish the Liver. But there are several objections to such an opinion. I St, Because the Vena Portse of the Fcetus in Utero receives nutritious matter, and also pro- bably oxygene gas, by the medium of the Placenta of the mother. 2dly, As my Father found, that after throwing a ligature around the Hepatic Artery of a living , animal, and then cutting.it, there was an adhe- sion betwixt the Liver and the side, which adhe- sion was supplied mth blood from the Vena Torta- rum. Hence the branches of the Vena Portarum contribute to the nutrition of the Liver, in the same manner as those of the Pulmonary Artery contribute to the nutrition of the Lungs; as ap- pears from a preternatural adhesion between the P 2OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. , 223 Pleura Costalis and Pulmonalis being supplied with blood by the small branches of the Pulmo* nary Artery. There is another peculiarity in the circulation of the blood of the Liver, which leads to the same opinion. The veins which correspond with the Cystic branches of the Hepatic Artery, terminate in the Vena Portarum. Hence the blood is not exhaust- ed of those principles which render it fit for the secretion of Bile. . My Father, who had always entertained the a- bove opinion respecting the Hepatic Artery, en- deavoured to prove it, by diverting the blood of an animal from the Vena Portarum ; but his ex- periment proved fatal in so short a time, that no inference could be drawn from it. Mr Ab'ernethy lately discovered, in the body of a child, such a distribution of blood. In that instance, the trunk of the Vena Portic terminated in the Inferior Vena Cava; notwith- standing which, Bile was found in the Biliary Ducts, which could only have been derived from the Hepatic Artery. The Bile is constantly secreted, and in greater abundance after a meal. This I learnt from a case I attended, in which there was an abscess in the Liver, and a praeter- natural communication between the Liver and Lungs, through which all the Bile flowed, and was discharged by coughing j in proof of which,229 ,OF THE SECUETION OF BILE. the fasces were of the same colour, and had as Iktie smell as those of a person deeply jaundiced. The quantity of Bile discharged by coughing, ’ was different at different times. It was always greater after meals, and especially for an hour or two after dinner. The quantity expectorated could not be measured with great accuracy, from being mixed with Mucus and Saliva. The whole quantity in twenty-four hours, was from ten to fif- teen ounces. I had also an opportunity of observing the ef- fect of certain articles of food, and in particular of acids, as wine, and of different fruits, in in- creasing ihe quantity of Bile. * A number of curious and very instructive ex- periments upon Dogs, have been' performed by Bichat ; | which (how, that there is a constant * The reader wUl find this singular case published at length in the 1st volume of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. f Void ce que j’ai observe sur les chiens qui ont servi a mes experiences. lo. Pendant Pabstinence, I’estomac et les intestins grdes etant vides, on trouve la bile des conduits hepatique et . choledoque jaunatre et claire ; la surface du duodenum et du jejunum teinte par une bile qui presente le meme aspect; la vcsicule du fiel tres-distendue par une bile verdatre, a- mere, d’autant plus foncee et plus abondante, que la diete a ete plus longue. 2o. Pendant la digestion stomacale, qu’on peut prolonger assez long-temps en donnant au chien de gros morceaux de viande qu’il avale sans macher, les qhoses sent a-peu-prw dans le mSme dat. So. Au com-OUTLINES OF ANATOMV. 230 ' secretion of Bile ; and a greater secretion of Bile, than ordinary, a short time after food has been taken. Sect. III. I OF THE BILIARY DUCTS. By the medium of the smaller branches of the Hepatic Duct, which are distributed through menccmcnt de la digestion intestinalc, on trouve la bile dii conduit hepatique toiijours jaunatre, celle du conduit chole- doque plus foncee, la vcsicule moins pleine et sa bile deve- jiant dej'a plus claire. 4o. Sur la fin de la digestion et tout ' de suite apres, la bile des conduits hepatique, choledoque, celle contenue duns la vcsicule du fiel, celle qui se trouve repandue sur le duodenum, sont absolument de la couleur de la bile hepatique ordinaire, e’est-a-dire d’un jaune clair, peu amere. La vcsicule n’est qu’ a moitie pleine ; elle est fiasque, point contractcc. Ces observations repetces un tres-grand nombre de fois, prouvent evidemment quo telle est, pendant 1’abstinence et la digestion, la maniere dont se fait I’ccoulement de la bile, lo. II paroit que dans tous les temps le foie en separe une rertaine quantite, quantise qui augmente cependant durant la digestion. 2o. Celle qui est fournie durant I’abstinenee se partage entre I’intestin qui s’en trouve toujours colore, et la vcsicule qui la retient sans en verser aucune portion par le conduit C3'stique, et ou, ainsi retenne, elle acquiert iin caractere d’acretc, une teinte foncee, necessaires sans doute a la digestion qui va suivre. 3o. Lorsque les alimens, ayant et6 digercs par I’estomac, passent dans le duodenum, jjilors toute la bile hepatique, qui auparavant se partageoit,231 O.F THE BILIARY DUCTS. every part of the Liver, the Bile flows into the large Hepatic Duct. ' The Hepatic Duct, w^hich is in size equal to that of a common writing pen, runs between the two layers of the smaller Omentum, enveloped in fat and cellular membrane, to the right of the Vena Portarum. The Hepatic joins with the Cystic Duct at an acute angle, and forms the Diictits Communis Cho- ledochus ; which, when it approaches the Dupde- num, is covered by the Pancreas. This common Duct passes with a considerable degree of obliquity, for the space of about an inch, between the Coats of the second Flexure of the Duodenum ; and a small projection marks the place of its entrance into that bowel. The oblique passage of the common Duct through the Coats of the Duodenum, has the effect of a valve, and prevents its reflux from the Intestine. coule dans I’intestin et. mcme en plus grande .abojidancc. D’une autre part la v&icule verse aussi cello qu’elle con- tient, sur la pulpo alimentaire qui s’en trouve alors toute penetnee. ^o. Apres la digestion intestinale, la bile bcpa- tique diininue, et commence a coiUer en partie dans Ic duo- denum, et a reflucr en partie dans la vesicide ou, examinee alors, elle est claire et en petite quautitc, parce qu’clle n’a encore eu le temps ni de se colorer, ni de s’amasscr en abondance.-T-BiCHAT, Anat. Gen. part. 1. vol, 2. p. 4'59.OUTLINES OF AKATOMV. 262 Of the Call-Bladder. The size and figure of the Gall-Bladder vary much in different individuals ; generally it is some- what of an oval or pyriform shape. The Gall-Bladder is placed obliquely, and fix- ed down by a reflection of Peritonaeum ; and its larger extremity is turned forwards and down- wards ; and when distended, it projects beyond the margin of the Chest, nearly opposite to the Cartilage of the second False Rib. The Gall-Bladder has been divided by Anato- mists into the Body, Fundus, and Neck. The Fundus, the larger extremity, is directed forwards, and a little to the right side, and corresponds to the excavation in the right Lobe of the Liver. There are two Coats proper to the Gall-Blad- der, viz. the Peritonasal and Mucous Coats ; and between these, in some cases, very thin mu§cular Fibres may be observed. Upon the internal surface of the Qall-Bladder there are a number of llugce, which cross each other, and form somewhat of a honeycomb ap> pearance. The neck of the Gall-Bladder is bent upon it- self, and also its Duct, which is about inch long, and which is united to the Hepatic Duct at an acute angle. The Duct from the Gall-Bladder called Cystic^233 OF THE GALL-BLADDER. is smaller than the Hepatic Duct; has somewhat of a knotted appearance ; and within it there are several longitudinal folds, which considerably les- sen its canal. The Arteries of the Gall-Bladder are derived from the Hepatic Artery. Of the Structure of the Gall Ducts. • There are two coats proper to the Gall Ducts, an external fibrous coat, and an internal mucous lining; and, in some robust subjects, between these, a few pale coloured and very thin muscular fibres may be observed. Upon the inner membrane of the Ducts, the orifices of a number of mucous glands may also be observed. Within the Cystic Duct, there are from four- teen to eighteen transverse folds, which are some- what different as to breadth ; and also some folds which are disposed longitudinally, and w’hich, by crossing the transverse folds, form Cells. The same kind of structure may be observed in the Ductus Communis Choledochus; but the Cells are not so manifest as in the Cystic Duct, the transverse plicas being much smaller. These Ducts are remarkably dilatable. I have seen them, from Gall-stone Jaundice, extended to three times their natural bulk. ?;. • • f . .OUTLINES or ANATO.MT, 234 Sect, IV. OF BILE. The Bile is a viscid fluid, somewhat of a ge- latinous consistence, and varies a little in- its colour at different times ; being sometimes of a golden colour; sometimes of a dirty yellow colour, inclining to green ; and is to the taste bitter. The Bile taken from the Gall-Bladder is per- fectly similar to that of the Hepatic Duct in taste, colour, and smell, but is somewhat more viscid. Bile is an animal soap. Bile contains, according to Mr Thenard, some yellow matter suspended in it; and when evapo- rated to dryness, it leaves a brown matter, amount- ing to about of its original weight. The following substances, and the following propor- tions of these, were obtained by Thenard * from 1100 parts of human Bile. 1000.0 Water. from 2 to to yellow insoluble matter, yellow matter in solution, a trace. 41.0 Resin. 42.0 Albumen. 5.6 Soda. 4.5 Phosphate of Soda, Sulphate of Soda, Muriate of Soda, Phosphate of Lime, Oxide of Iron ; but no Picrorael, like ox Bile. * FiV/. Mem. d’ArcueIl. Tom. I. n. 53. . i *235 CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF BILE. A very favourable opportunity lately occurred for examining Bile, which Mr John.Davy exa- mined at my request. I have subjoined his account of it in his own words. “ Healthy Bile obtained from a Person executed. “ This Bile appeared, by transmitted light, of a fine golden yellow colour, darker and richer than the healthy Bile of the ox ; and by reflected light it assumed the hue of burnt timber. It was rather more viscid, and also of greater specific gravity than ox Bile. The former, water being as leo, was found to be as 104.25, and the latter 102.75. ‘‘ It had nothing peculiar in its general pro- perties, or different from those commonly ob- served. “One hundred grains of it, slowly evaporated to dryness, afforded fourteen grains of solid residue, of a resinous appearance, and of a dark brown folour. “ This residuum, treated with alcohol, was com- pletely dissolved with the exception of 1.5 grain, which had the properties of Albumen. “ Ihe quantity examined was not sufficient for minuter analysis. ” From the preceding results it may be conclud- ed, that 100 parts of this human Bile contain about ■ 86.0OUTLIXES OF ANAT03IY. 236 86.0 Water. i?.5 Resin of Bile. 1.5 Albumen. 100.0 Sect. V. OF THE SPLEEN. The Spleen is an organ of a spongy consist-, ence, of a livid colour, variable as to shape and length, generally approaching to an oval form j convex on its upper surface, which is received in- to a corresponding concavity of the Diaphragm ; concave towards the Stomach, to which it is con- nected by the Peritonaeum, Cellular Membrane, the greater Omentum, and by bloodvessels and nerves. The Spleen occupies a share of the left Hypo- chondriac Region, between the left extremity of the Stomach and the false Ribs, but changes its place along with the Stomach, and also during inspiration. The Spleen is generally about five or six inch- es long ; but sometimes there is a larger, and one or two small Spleens. The Spleen has two coats, one of which is de- rived from the Peritonaeum ; the other is proper to it, and but loosely connected to it. The Spleen is also connected to the Pancreas jby bloodvessels, and by the Peritonaeum.237 OF THE SPLEEN. The Spleen receives, in proportion to its bulk,- a large artery ; and when the branches of that artery have been filled successfully, it seems to consist of a congeries of bloodvessels. Malpighi has described little follicles interpos- ed between the extremities of the Splenic Artery and the Splenic Vein; but I have never seen them. The vein which corresponds with the artery is also of large size. The Nerves of the Spleen, which are small, creep along the coats of the artery. Nothing certain is known respecting the use of the Spleen. Sect. VI. OF THE PANCREAS. The Pancreas resembles the Salivary Glands in colour, consistence, and structure; and the liquor which is secreted by it is similar to the Saliva. This conglomerate gland, which in figure has been compared to the tongue of a dog, is placed across the Spine, behind the Stomach, and is re- tained in its place by the root of the Mesocolon. The Pancreas lyes before the Aorta, Vena Cava, and part of the Splenic Vessels, and also the edge of the transverse part of the Duodenum. The Pancreas is about six inches long ; and by its right extremity is connected to the left side of233 OUTLINES OF ANATOttlY. the second turn of the Duodenum ; from which part of it, there is a process called the Lesser Pan- creas^ which also is fixed to the Duodenum : and the left or smaller extremity is fixed to the Spleen by the Omentum Majus. The larger Lobes of the Pancreas are composed of smaller Lobules, from each of which there is a smaU Duct; and these smaller Ducts unite and form the larger Pancreatic Duct, which begins from the left extremity of the Pancreas ; and from the addition of the smaller branches it becomes gradually larger ; and at the right extremity of the Pancreas the Duct of the smaller Pancreas joins the larger Pancreatic Duct. To elucidate more fully the structure of the Pancreas, I have subjoined an engraving of that gland, as viewed by the microscope. The Duct which -has thin coats is placed in the middle of this glandular organ. The large Duct generally enters the.Duodenum along with, or near to, the Ductus Communis Choledochus. De Graaf, a great many years ago, by fixing a tube into the Duct of this gland, discovered that the liquor secreted by it was in all respects similar to spittle.239 EXPLANATION OP PLATE XXXI. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXXI. Fig. I. represents the Pancreas, as seen by a common magnifying glass, after its Duct had been successfully injected. Fig. 2. represents the Pancreas more magnified. And Fig. 3. & 4. represent the Pancreas as seen un- der a microscope of very high powers, to show that there are no Acini in the structure of this gland. The arteries of the Pancreas are derived partly from the Hepatic, but chiefly from the Splenic Artery. The veins which correspond with these arteries assist in forming the Vena Portarum. The Nerves of the Pancreas are small, and are derived from the great Sympathetic and eighth pair.OUTLINES OP A-NATOSIW 2iO Sect. VII. OF THE OMENTA. The Omenta afe composed of Follicles, con- taining fat, connected to each other by cellular substance, and covered by the Peritoneum, The smaller is placed between the Liver, and smaller curvature of the Stomach j and the larger depends from the Spleen, the Stomach, and Colon, and in part covers the smaller Intestines. The Peritoneum passes off double from the' concave part of the Liver to the upper part, or lesser curvature, of the Stomach, forming what has been called the Omentim Mmus, or Omen- tum Hepato-Gastricum. This is bounded on the right side by the large vessels which carry the blood into the Liver, and which are said to be enclosed in the Capsule of Glisson; and on the left side, by the Oesophagus and upper orifice of the Stomach. The two layers of the Omentum Minus sepa- rate from each other when they reach the Sto- mach, and give an external coat to that organ; then reunite ; and by their continuation form the anterior part of the Greater Omentum. The Greater Omentum hangs down from the greater curvature of the Stomach, and is fixed to the Colon, and therefore called Omentum Majus Gastro-colicum: And as a portion of the Omen- tum Majus extends farther to the right side than4 OP THE OMENTA. 241 the Stomach, following the Colon, that portion of it has been called Omentum CoUcum Dextrum. The layers of the Great Omentum separate from each other, and include the Colon, Hence, that part of the Omentum which hangs from the Sto.- mach and Colon is quadruple. The layers of the Omentum Minus separate from each other, on its right side, to inclose the Vena Portas, Hepatic Artery, Biliary Ducts, and Nerves of the Liver, or to form what has been called the Capsule of Glisson : and hence, behind these ves- f sels, a hole large enough to admit a finger readily, f is formed, which was first described by Winslow, and has been called the Foramen of Winslow. I When the finger, therefore, is introduced into this hole, it passes behind the Omentum Hepato- ' Gastricum *, and if, next, the finger be turned downwards, it passes downwards behind the Sto- ! mach, and then behind the fore part of the great ! Omentum ; and then downwards behind it, to the upper part of the Colon and Mesocolon. This hole, therefore, leads to a great Sac be- •' hind the lesser Omentum, then behind the Sto- mach and Omentum Gastro-colicum ; and the Ca- l' Ion and Mesocolon form the bottom of the Sac j 1' and at the back part of it the Pancreas is placed. In a child, this Sac may be inflated from the Foramen. In the human subject, the Omentum Majus, on some occasions, extends as far down as ihq- VOL. II. Q I242 OUTLINES OT A'NATCTMY. Navel ■; but in quadrupeds, whose hind legs' are longer than their fore, it descends to the bottom of the belly ; which renders it probable that a li- quor, which lubricates and prevents the concre- tion of the bowels, is derived from the Orrien- tum; though the Ducts through which it flows are not visible. This organ varies in its bulk. In the corpulent, it sometimes acquires a con- siderable thickness; but in the emaciated, the greater part of its fat is abstracted, and it assumes a reticulated appearance; The under portion of this organ is loose, and readily changes its situation : hence, when the Intestines are protruded, it frequently forms apart of the contents of a Hernial Sac. Authors upon the Spleen^ with Engravings/ Frid. Ruysch, Thesaurus Anat. VII. Tab. I. William Stuckeley on'the Spleen. Lond. 1723. Fol. M. V. Deiscii Peaes. Jo. Heinrich Schulze de Splene Canibus Exciso, Hal. 1735, in Halleri Se- lecta Dissert. Anat. Vol. III. Wm. Hewson, Experimental Inquiries. Aol. III. London 1777. My Father’s Observations on the Spleen, in his Book on FUhes. Edinb. 1785.AUTHORS ON THE GALL-BLADDER AND PANCREAS. 243 Auihon upon the lAvei' and Gall-Bladder^ veith Engravings^ J. D. Santorini Tubulas Septendecem. EditiK a Gi- RAUDi. Tab. XI. Frid. Ruysch, Thesaurus Anatomicus IX. Tab. IV. Halleri Elemonta Physiologiae. Tom. VI. P. Mascagni de Vasis Lymphaticis. Fr. Glisson, Anatomia Hepatis. Lond. 1654. Jo. Bapt. Bianciii Flistoria Hepatis. Genevie 1725. W. Saunders on the Structure, Economy, and Dis- eases of the Livei’. Lond. 1793. Authors on the Gall-Bladder. J. D. Santorini Tabulm Septendecem. Tab. XI. Casp.' FriD. Wolff, de Vesiculae Fellem Humanee, Ductusque Human! Cystici et Choledochi Superfi- ciebus Internis. Vid. Acta Acudenilse ScieiiL. Pe- tropolitanas ad ann. 1779, P. L Tab. VI. Idem, de Usu Plicarum, quae in Vesicula Fellea nonnullo- rum corporum inveniuntur. Ibidem, P. II. Tab. I. Authors on the Fancreas. De Graaf, De Succo Pancreatico. C. Brunner, Experimenta Nova. Amsterd. 1638. B. Robinson, Obs. on the Virtues of Medicines. E-*. dinb. 1743. Q 2W - Tc-}/«r| axj^ ^ncr co eicarj. I,♦■’ iji. ' ■'-lO i* ' '• i '■■ ir" 1 '^y. - % •.IXsrfi-T'' JUM*Jl5 •iJ ‘^*r ..9NT? tn vJ'i #.1.i*'nrjK f IW 11 ■ f.l V ~ /4 < »ft.HcKi?V-i i < ' I, ;Va». 'I * f(t ^ n/i<p»5'i »iii3'., wv T ■ffl t'?‘ ■.■*^\i*;i(^4j/ji^'. -3if ' ' ’v' i . ■% /■* : *«*^ ■■ «iiUMiiV‘Vyvi * f " VV , -a» ■ - 7 4p*«;-^ • " .',*n>.l«. V #4'-r .inaj'jH qflk#- -^^'/ .tUir^*'jl •‘i'iii * .ut'ibl , .IV .ii* i' ,\ .T >^*1/. b»: '•.*>‘'.!.*qO’'J‘ ^ .'i* .*i \ ,ttt^jiui! ’ ' .*; j;;.: f^rvv ■; .:i*rirti,|*i'>‘> 4 •x« .14k' X‘ >;j- 'V_ r^;' I •- ^ ■ ‘ .trr»».j’/M»', ‘,n,' jkT S ■ iS -![«l J ‘ hV" a» y, ,»;• . '.' {¥■ ■ ,3 "^■' ^- * ' .-4 • ' ' ■' .' ' t-'.. ; ' ■ * T» v’. ' ■ K'’ • 9 ^ . 4 &V PAKT VI. V: 1 .;1* r* ? • V. nfcv ; V/ V «• M • ’ t • J .’ IV' L S »‘ :■ ; , v.-tf , -■■ ■'■ ■ ' •• ' ■ V*;. ■■ ’ ‘ I;. '} m ’'ii • T. U ..'. . T, ^ i.T ^ ^ •i'^. • .. i? •i. ^ -mm -9% '• • ■ ' v< I. Vi '■ '*^'- ^. .,»• ’ -s. *. . t-- -V • * \jL ifv •: ,^-A. '•^'7 •% ^ * c -S'’ Jr'^;>*. 1 ■ i r. .f I * 'Ai'J ^ '»>«' ■*’N>V'“ '•■ • .r-...r'.vifl?y!»‘r •'■ #»• , ■ ■•. \ . ,» > —^ 1 I^MI-V* ^ * ’>»*’■■■■'• "^ ■' .•■ %'K ' >. ■ :■ ti.^ vO ^'-v‘--: ■,’- ■«* .♦ f * ^ . t ^ :%^organic BERANGEMENTS of the tIVER, &c. -S-tV CHAPTER I. ■ ON THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE LIVER, SPLEEN, PANCREAS, t AND OMENTUM. Sect. I. On the Organic Derangements of the Liver, THE Hepatitis, or inflammation of the Liver, a disease so frequent in tropical climates, and the great endemic of the Peninsula of India, was for- merly supposed to occur but rarely in this coun- try, or indeed in Europe j but I have seen a very considerable number of cases of it, though not in the more acute stage of the disease. When we meet with it in this country, it is commonly only a partial and a Chronic Irfam- Bza/iot?, which, being often mistaken by tdie patient for a derangement of the functions of the Stomach, •passes on to suppuration before advice of the phy- sician is demanded. The pressure of the enlarged and inflamed Liv- fr interrupts the functions of the Stomach j or218 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. the same cause, impeding the free circulation of the blood through the different bowels of the Ab- domen, as well as through the Liver itself, may produce a dropsy of the belly. By means of inflammation, the enlarged Liver may be united to the neighbouring parts ; 'and if, in such a situation, an Abscess should take place within it, the contents of that abscess might be discharged into the cavity of the Peritonseum, the Stomach, the Colon, or into the Sacs of the PleurcE, or into the Lungs. Abscesses of the Liver are of very various siz- es. Sometimes the greater part of the Liver has been converted into a bag, containing purulent matter, or a fluid like the washing of flesh, or lees of wine. The consistence of the purulent matter within the liver is very various. Sometimes it is thick and grumous; sometimes of a dark colour; some- times limpid; and sometimes white, and, like that discharged by a scrofulous ulcer, with a red mat- . ter in it like the lees of wine, which is the heavi- est part of it. Mr Bogue observes, that the purulent matter has been discovered to be so very acrid, as to cor- rode the Cartilages of the False Ribs, and even the bony substances of the Ribs. The fluctuation of the matter is frequently very distinct. Some- times it may be perceived at the extremity of the Ensiform Cartilage; as, from the weight of the matter, the Liver falls lower down than lisual y219 GANGRENE AND TUMOURS OF THE LIVER. or along the right lobe of the Liver ; or towards the Cartilages of the False Ribs, or below the margins of the Ribs. Sometimes the abscess en- croaches considerably on the Chest, or even pass- es through the Diaphragm. Gangrene of the Liver. Gangrene of the Liver has been described as a sequel of inflammation of that organ. Induration of the Liver. The Induration of the Liver is sometimes con- nected with a diminution, but much more fre- quently with an enlargement of that organ. Instead of employing, as the title of this chap- ter, the word Scirrhus^ I have substituted the term Induration, in order to mark the distinction between the Induration of the I.iver, and the Scirrhus of other glands, which diseases are wide- ly different; for the Induration of the Liver ne- ver degenerates, like the Scirrhus of the Mamma or Testicle, into the Cancerous ulceration. The usual weight of the Liver of the adult is between three and four pounds troy ; whereas a diseased Liver has sometimes weighed ten or twelve, or even eighteen pounds. When the Liver attains an enormous size, it elevates the Ribs sensibly ; and, by its pressure upwards on the Diaphragm, greatly confines the respiration j and Sometimes presses so much uponOUILINES OF ANATOMV. HoO the Lungs as to diminish their bulk, and even disturb the action of the Heart. The enlarged Liver sometimes descends as low as the Navel, dis- placing the Intestines, and deranging their func- tions as well as those of the Stomach. In consequence of the partial enlargement of the Liver, one side of the Chest becomes more prominent than the other. When the Liver is somewhat larger than usual, its ligaments are somewhat elongated and relaxed, by which it falls lower into the Belly than in the healthy state, and seems, before death, to be con- siderably larger than it proves to be upon dissec- tion. The enlargement of the Liver being generally partial, the diseased Liver does not retain its for- mer shape ; so that, instead of being concave to^ wards the Stomach and Duodenum, it is often convex towards these organs, and presses on them very much. The diseased Liver frequently contracts adhe- sions W'ith the neighbouring parts. The inequa- lities on the surface are in some cases of such a magnitude as to be obvious by external examin- ation. Upon applying the hand to the Belly of a pa- tient afflicted with this disorder, a pulsation may sometimes be perceived at the Scrobiculus Cordis, which is owing to the pulsations of the descend- ing Aorta being communicated to the medium of the enlarged Liver.251 TUMOURS OF THE LIVER. I The Gall-Bladder sometimes attains so large a bulk, as to project considerably beyond the mar- gin of the Ghest, and its Coats become thicker and redder than usual; but, in most cases, it con- tains but little bile, and is smaller than common; and its Coats are of a vi'hite colour, and much in- durated. The Bile within the Gall-Bladder is generally, in such cases, found to be thin and wa- tery, and not so bitter as usual. The most common kind of Tumour of the Liv- er, is that w’hich has been very faithfully describ- ed by Dr Baillie in the following manner. “ The Tubercles which are formed in this dis* ease occupy generally the whole mass of the Liv- er, are placed very near each other, and are of a rounded shape. They give an appearance every where of irregularity to its surface. When cut into, they arc found to consist of a brownish or yellowish white solid matter. They are some, times of a very small size, so as not to be larger than the heads of large pins ; but most frequently they are as large as small hazel nuts, and many of them are sometimes larger. ” * When such tumours occur in the Liver, that organ loses its natural form. It becomes much thicker, especially at its edges; and also becomes heavier, though smaller in bulk, than the sound Liver, the Tumours being composed of very dense materials. We meet with yellow-coloured Tumours both upon the surface, and within the substance of the i* . ' • ■ ■ ' * Fid. Morbid Anatomy.OUTLIN'ES OF ANATOMY. 2.52 Liver. The substance of the tumour is com- monly of the consistence of curd. The size of such tumours is extremely various ; and generally they are of an oval or rounded figure. The neighbouring Lymphatic glands generally partake of the disease. The Liver, with such tumours, sometimes at- tains an enormous bulk. I have seen it fifteen or twenty pounds weight. The Liver sometimes attains an unnatural bulk, from small soft tumours within it, which have been described by Dr Baillie under the name of S(}jl brcmm Tubercles. There is another kind of tumour, of a deep chocolate colour, which rarely exceeds the size of a hen’s egg, which I have seen in persons who died from the Fungous llcematodes of some other 2)urt of the body. Osseous tumours sometimes occur in the Liver; and, in some cases, the ossification seems to have taken place upon the coats of Hydatids. A swelling of the Liver has very frequently taken place from a collection of Hydatids within that organ. By the term Hydatid, is to be understood, a round or oval-shaped semi-opaque pulpy bag, pos- sessing a contractile power, without an external opening, of a pearly or yellowish colour, contain- ing a watery fluid, and often a number of smaller Hydatids, included within its proper Capsule or CystiTUMOURS O^F THE LIVER. 2^3 Hydatids are of very difl'erent sizes ; some are not larger than a millet-seed j others are equal in bulk to an ox’s bladder. The Coats of Hydatids are generally thin and semitransparent, although sometimes so thick as t-o be perfectly opaque. The Habitat (to make use of the expression of modern naturalists) of Hydatids is also different. They have been discharged by vomiting, and by stool ; frequently they are attached to the Peri- tonteum, and especially to that part of it which covers the Liver; or they are imbedded in that organ, or attached to the Kidneys or Ovaria, or to some part of the Alimentary Canal. Hydatids have also, though more rarely, been found in the Cellular Membrane; likewise between the muscles; and sometimes, though still more rarely, within the bones. There formerly existed a great variety 'of opi- nion respecting the nature of Hydatids. Naturalists nov/ seem to agree, that they belong to the animal kingdom, and constitute a Genus of animals, of which there are several species ; but sufficient observations on recent or living Hy- datids, have not yet been made, to enable us to dfaw up generic or specific characters, f * \id. Philosoph. Trans. Vol. XXII. t The generic name of Hydna has been proposed; but no character of the genus has been establislmd. It seems not improbable, that the Hydatids oftlie liuman body must form a separate genus, distinct from the Hydatids of sheep.254 OUTLINTES OP ANATOlUY.' Hydatids, like Intestinal Worms, are incapalDle of independent existence, and therefore exhibit a contractile power only when examined imme- diately upon being discharged from a living ani- mal. The remaining for many hours within the dead body, generally deprives them of the princi- ple of life ; and hence all specimens of Hydatids’ are not observed to contract; and such as retain the power of contraction for some time after being expelled, may be considered as unusually tena- cious of life. I • Purulent matter,' which is sometimes lodged within- the same Viscus, also proves fatal to Hy- datids ; and in this case, of course, they show ncr contractile power. The Hydatids found in human bodies, are dif- ferent from those of quadrupeds. Of the human Hydatids, there are the following kinds.’ •, . , . First, Where there is only one large Hydatid of a globular form,'contained within a Cyst. * Second, Where there are several Hydatids with- in the same Cyst,' of different sizes and colours; some being of a pearly, and others of a straw or amber colour y-j- and some of the larger of these are found to contain others.' * I met with a case’in which’ eight English pints of fluid were contained within a large Hydatid; there were no small Hydatids within it; and the whole of the inner sprface of the Hydatid was perfectly smooth. -j" In another case, the Cyst of the Hydatid contained fourH^DATIIfg OF TflE LIVER. ^55 A third kind of Hydatid has been also describ- ed, but which I have never yet seen, where a num- ber of Hydatids have been inclosed one within anotherlike a riest of chip-boxes. The fourth kind may be called the Cellular Hydatid, as it is peculiar to the cellular substance of the muscles. The Cyst of this kind is of con- siderable thickness, and consists of several distinct layers, which sometimes acquire a cartilaginous hardness. There is a fifth kind of Hydatids, which, from being compressed together, and forming a sub- • stance about the size of a garden pea, has been mistaken for indurated lymphatic glands. This kind has not, as far as I know, been described. The Hydatids are firmly united to each other by a very adhesive Mucus, and by a thin membrane, besides which, each of them is enveloped by its own proper capsule. These Hydatids are very Small, being about the size of the Ovula in the Ovaria of fishes. This kbid is often found in the Choroid Plexus of the lateral Ventricles of the Brain, in cases of Apoplexy and Hydrocephalus. pints of water, and a great many Hydatids of different sizes. Some were about the size of a nutmeg. Others, as large as a billiard-ball, floated loose within the largest Hydatid ; and within several of the larger Hydatids, there were clusters of small spherical bodies grouped together, which adhered to their inner side^.'OUTLINES OF ANATOATi". 25G There Is a sixth, though very rare sort of Hy- datid, which also, so far as I know, has not been described. In this, the Hydatids are united later- ally to each other. I have met with only two examples of this variety of Hydatids ; and in both, they were connected with the Liver. There were, at the same time, a great number of Hyda- tids, of different sizes, attached to the Peritonsc- um, or floating about in the general cavity of the Abdomen. One of the patients, a boy, was supposed to labour under Ascites, his belly being enormously swollen, his breathing much oppress- ed ; and he was not relieved by an erect posture. The superficial Veins of the Abdomen were great- ly enlarged. P’or about nine months before his death, he had severe pain in the right Hypochon- drium ; and a considerable partial Tumour was observed in his belly, which Increased with great rapidity for ten days before his death. Upon dis- section, about four pounds of a fluid like tar ran out of the Abdomen. A large Hydatid was found ad- hering to the convex part of the Liver ; and six others were found adhering to this. The Sto- mach was much displaced; the Pylorus being as low down as the brim of the Pelvis, and the great- er share of the Intestinal Cartal lodged within its cavity. The watery fluid f contained in Hydatids, is f According to Dr John Hunter, this fluid contains very small Hydatids, of different sizes, the largest being257 TUMOURS OF THE LIVER. generally transparent and colourless; is to the taste slightly salt; and in some instances, a part of it is coagulated by heat, or by the addition of acids, or ardent spirits. In some cases, the contents of the Cyst are tinged with yellow, which is probably owing to -cm admixture of bile, exuding after death ; for the yellow colour is observed only in Hydatids which are connected with the Liver and Gall- Bladder. There are also Tumours, the contents of which seem to be Coagulable Lymph, and a number of Hydatids which have burst; and the Coats of those are shrunk and inverted. ' There is a seventh kind of Hydatids, with nar- row necks, which is frequently attached to the Pla- centa. I have also seen Hydatids of the second species connected with the Placenta. Some of the bowels, as the Ovaria and Kidneys, are said at times to have been converted into Hy- datids j but it would be more accurate to speak of the conversion of these bowels into watery vesi- cles, (the genuine Hydatid being rarely found within these bowels) ; and these Vesicles have only one Coat; they are not enclosed within firm Cysts, and do not produce their like ; nor do they one hundredth part of an inch in diameter, and the small- est being less than a red globule of the blood. Vid. Trans, for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Know- ledge, Vol. I. p. 38, VOL. II. R258 OUTLINES OF ANATOaMV; possess any degree of contractile power, like the genuine Hydatid. Of the Sac of Hydatids. The Sac of the Hydatid, seems to be formed of condensed Cellular substance ; and the thickness of the Sac generally bears a ratio to its size and situation. This Sac is secured in its place by several bands of Cellular substance, which pass between it and the bowel within which it is lodged ; and in the Abdomen, it is covered by the Peritonaeum. Tiie thickness of the Sac of a Hydatid is in proportion to its size ; although there is a consi- derable difference in this particular, the Sac being thickest where it is most exposed. Thus, when the greater part of the Sac is surrounded by the substance of a bowel, as of the Liver, for instance, th'at part only of the Sac which is exposed is of a considerable thickness, and is sometimes cartilagi- nous, or covered by layers of bone. I have observed, that the irmer surface of the Sac is by no means uniform, but always somewhat irregular, and lined by a very thin layer of fat. A glairy gelatinous liquor is also interposed be- tween the Sac and the Hydatid, which prevents the Hydatids from being injured by friction. Tlie Sac of a large Hydatid is Sometimes di- vided into compartments, which serve to prevent the smaller Hydatids, contained within the opposite ends of the Sac, from pressing upon each other.259 or THE COATS OP HYDATIDS. ‘ Of the Coats of Hydatids. 'i || The Coats of Hydatids are not of an uniform ]j density, being much thicker in some, than in o- .1 thers j and even in the same Hydatid, we gene- I rally observe some portions of these Coats of I greater density than others; so that, in the same I' Hydatid, there is a difference, as to transparency j or opacity, in the different parts of its Coats. '1 Hydatids have two Coats, an outer and inner j I and the outer Coat is considerably thicker than I ' the inner. I There are no Fibres in the outer Coat of a Hy- datid, visible to the naked eye ; yet the outer Coat j possesses the distinguishing character of a Muscle, —the power of contraction upon the application ! of a stimulus. I *^The inner Coat of the Hydatid is very thin, se- mitransparent, soft, pulpy, and very tender ; and, in very large Hydatids, possesses a small share of ; elasticity. The interior surface is lubricated by a I fluid, which renders it slippery to the touch. From the inner side of some of the larger Hy- datids, there are several excrescences, which are made up of a congeries of very small Hydatids; and the size of these bears a ratio to the size of the Hydatid. These excrescences are retained in their situa- tion by a very thin transparent membrane, which covers them. R 2OUTLINES OF ANATO*'MV. 260 There is still another appearance which I have remarked, viz. a number of small Cells formed by folds of the inner membrane of the large preg- nant Hydatid, containing the small ones. It has not yet been determined, what is the proportion of Hydatids which may be called preg- nant. In some cases, the greater part of the inner Coat is studded over with these small excrescen- ces ; but in other instances, there are only two or three such excrescences from the parent Hydatid. Upon examining the Coats of very large Hyda- tids, even without the aid of a magnifying glass, very small Hydatids may be seen adhering to the Coats of the Hydatid; which would seem to show, that Hydatids are multiplied in the same manner as some of the Fungi of the Vegetable Kingdom. Bloodvessels of Hydatids. The Coats of Hydatids are provided with very small Bloodvessels, Absorbents, and Nerves. The Bloodvessels proper to the Coats of the Hydatid, have no immediate connexion with those of the organ within which it is lodged. The Hydatid, in this respect, resembles a worm lodged within the human body. I have, in several instances, filled,' with great success, the bloodvessels of the organ within A261 BLOOD-VESSELS OF HYDATIDS. which Hydatids were lodged ; also those upon the Sac of the Hydatid j which, where the Hydatid is of considerable bulk, are of a large size, and which, like those in the neighbourhood of other preternatural tumours, acquire an unusual size ; but none of the injection got into the vessels of the Coats of the Hydatid. But other authors have affirmed, that they had injected the vessels proper to the Hydatid. Dr Walter of Berlin supposed, that he i had filled the bloodvessels upon the outer Coat I of a Hydatid, which was contained within the I Liver. But it is not improbable, that he had mis- taken the vessels upon the Peritonaeum of the Liver for those of the Hydatid. Watery Vesicles, or Dropsical Cysts, as they have been named by some authors, are very dif- ferent from Hydatids ; for in these we observe only a single thin Coat, firmly attached to the neighbouring parts, upon which several blood- vessels, filled by red blood, may be observed. Such Cysts frequently adhere to the extremities of the Fallopian Tubes, to the ligaments of the Uterus, to the Choroid Plexus, to the Placenta, Kidneys, or are sometimes lodged within the 1 Glandular Viscera ; and are also sometimes iin- j bedded in the Mammae and Testicle. I have seen i them filled by a fluid of the colour of the Ink of 1 the Cuttle Fish, when these organs have been re- ' duced to a Scirrhous state. i262 OUTLINES OP ANATOMY. Though' the Arteries proper to the Coats of Hydatids be very small, yet the watery liquor which fills the Hydatid is secreted by them, and in some cases even bone. The Hydatid is probably nourished by absorp- tion, and not by continuous vessels from its Cyst, and may be compared in structure to the Echinus esculentus of Linnaeus ; that is, absorbent ves- sels take up its nourishment from the containing Cyst. And in like manner, the small Hydatids contained within a larger Hydatid, after being se- parated from it, or loosened from the Ovarium in which they were formed, suck up their nou- rishment from the liquor of the Hydatid which contains them. By what vessels the liquor which has been ab- sorbed passes into the cavity of the Hydatid, or forms young Hydatids, we do not know ; pro- bably such vessels exist as in the Echinus. If Hydatids contract, upon the application of a stimulus, it must be granted, that these are under, the influence of nerves ; though these nerves be so small as not to be obvious to our imperfect senses. Of the diffcrpit States in 'which Hydatids are found. Hydatids are found in different states. The rudiment of the Hydatid is cpnnected to the Coats of the pregnant Hydatids *, and appears, with other small Hydatids, in the form of smallDIFFERENT STATES IN WHICH HYDATIDS ARE FOUND. 260 excrescences, which are attached to the large pregnant Hydatids. After a time, these small Hydatids are detached from the parent Hydatid. Hydatids are subject to diseases. Hydatids sometimes burst within their Sacs. We sometimes meet with Tumours, which are made up entirely of pieces of Coagulable Lymph and Hydatids, the water having been removed by absorption. Hence the Tumour does not com- municate a sense of fluctuation, as when the Hy- datids were entire. . The external Coat of Hydatids has sometimes been converted into Bone. I have several preparations, which afford a strik- ing illustration of the manner in which Bone is formed upon the Coats and Sac of Hydatids. The Ossification begins from a few central points npon the Coats of the Hydatid and by subse- quent depositions, the pieces of Bone gradually become larger and larger, so that at length a con- siderable mass of Bone is formed. Of the manner in 'which the Cysts of Hydatids are formed. The Sac containing the Hydatid seems to be formed in consequence of the irritation of the Hydatid. In the same manner, where a large quantity of purulent matter has been contained within theOUTLINES OF ANATOiMV. Viscera, we generally observe a Sac, provided with Arteries, Veins, Nerves and Lymphatics, as is obvious from the very yaried contents of these different Sacs, and the spontaneous removal or absorption of their contents. Ihere are also similar instances in the Veget- able Kingdom, as in the production of Galls from the Oak, &c. Of the Effects of Hydatids upon the Organs 'ivhich contain them. Hydatids which attain a considerable bulk, not only mechanically affect the organ within which they are lodged by their pressure, but, by the ir- ritation which pressure gives, produce still far- ther changes upon it. On account of the particular stimulus which Hydatids, as living animals, give the organ con- taining them, or to w^hich they are attached, they undergo still farther changes, in consequence of an action excited, which perhaps may not impro- perly be termed specific: in proof of which, the organs within which Hydatids are contained, or to which they are attached, are sooner, and to a much greater degree, affected, than by the ordi- nary fixed Dropsical Cysts, whether of the natu- ral or preternatural kind. Thus, a large quantity of water accumulated in the Ventricles of the Brain, in Hydrocephalus In- ternus, sometimes occasions, in an infant, a disu-265 EFFECTS OF HYDATIDS. nion of the Bones of the Cranium from each o- ther, and the head acquires an unnatural bulk. No part of the Cranium becomes soft, thin, or is absorbed. But if Hydatids are lodged in one of the Ventricles of the Brain, (which is not un- common in Sheep), the Cranium over that Ven- tricle becomes soft, and may be cut without turn- ing the edge of the knife, and loses considerably of its thickness ; and in some cases holes are formed in it, although the Dura Mater remains entire between the Cranium and the Brain ; and even although the Cyst containing the Hydatids is still covered by a seemingly sound portion of the Brain and Pia Mater. The same happens in the human body ; for in the case stated, * where a Hydatid, of the size ' of a goose’s egg, was found in the right Ventricle of the Brain of a man, covered by a Gelatinous matter, without any fibrous adhesion to the mem- brane lining the Ventricle, the Cranium was found to be much thinner on its right side than on the left; and, in particular, the Right Parietal Bone was not thicker than a wafer. In like manner, the Pleura, Peritonseum, and Vaginal Coat of the Testis, have been greatly ex- tended for a length of time, but the containing membrane continues entire ; whereas, when Hy- datids are collected within these membranes, a * Fid. Case 1st (Art. Hydatid) in my Morbid Ana- tomy of the Gullet, &c.266 OUTLINES OP ANATOMY. slight degree of inflammation Is excited. This is followed by adhesions. The Cyst containing the Hydatids is destroyed, by which the Hydatid e- scapes from its original situation. There is a miteh greater disposition to the de- struction of the Cysts which contain the Hydatid, and other containing parts, than when water is accumulated within the shut cavities. Hydatids generated within the Liver, sometimes make their way into the Abdomen, and also up- wards into the Thorax ; and sometimes, though much more rarely, into the substance of the Lungs. The Hydatids also have got into the branches of the Trachea, and have been discharg- ed by coughing. In the same manner. Hydatids formed in the substance of the Kidneys, have worked their way out of the Pelvis of that organ, and have been discharged with the urine. As Hydatids seldom prove fatal when they have found an outlet, and as there is a disposition in nature to discharge Hydatids from the body, an attempt should be made to assist, or to second the efforts of nature by art. In the first place, a Tumour filled with Hyda- tids, situated in the extremities, or on the exter- nal surface of the body, may be with safety re- moved. Hydatids lodged within the cavities of the body, may also be extracted, providing the organ containing these has contracted an adhe-EFFECTS OF HYDATIDS. 267 sion with the containing parts, as was done with complete success. | Plater * has related the case of a young wo- man who had a Tumour in the right Hypochon- drium, which was very painful, especially when she lay on the left side. It at length burst, and a large quantity of a serous fluid was discharged, besides a number of Hydatids ; after which, the patient obtained a complete cure. Guatanni’s f testimony is equally strong. He has related a case, in which the Parietes of the Abdomen over a Tumour in the region of the Liver became very thin ; and the Tumour, in consequence of violent coughing, 'at length burst externally, and three hundred entire Hydatids, together with a quantity of a serous fluid, were discharged. The opening remained fistulous for some time; but at length closed, and the patient recovered. In the same manner, when Hydatids have been accumulated within the Uterus, these may be re- moved from it, as was done by Dr Kilgour of Musselburgh, with perfect success. A Lady was supposed to be in labour, and the Doctor was sent for to deliver her. The pains X Fid. Case 7th, (Art. Hydatids), in my book uppi^ t)ie Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, &c. * Vid. Obs. Select. Mantissa;, Obs. XVIII. p. 44. f Pld. GfATANNi, de Extern. Aneurysmat. p. 119.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 26S were at first very slight. After some time, a bleeding came on, which led the Doctor to exa- mine the parts. He found the Os Tincse a little dilated, and discovered that the Uterus was filled liy Hydatids. The bleeding continuing, he was induced to endeavour to remove the Hydatids ; which he accomplished, and brought away a ba- son full of these. The lady got well in a few days, and afterwards had four very healthy chil- dren. Thus, the cause of the Tumour is remov- ed, which is not effected by opening a fixed Drop- steal Cyst. In many cases where there has existed a swell- ing of the belly, it has suddenly disappeared up- on the discharge of Hydatids, by vomiting and purging. After a time, should another such Tumour begin to form ; in these circumstances, though it is by no means certain that the Sac and the containing parts adhere to each other, if the Tumour be stationary, it may even, in some such cases, be advisable to puncture the Sac with a large Trocar, and empty it of some, or of the whole, of the Hydatids ; or, if this cannot be accomplished, to inject into it the smoke, or the infusion of tobacco, or a very w'eak solution of camphor; or to give mercury, or some other substance which may kill the Hy- datids, without being injurious to the patient.- Prudence, however, suggests the propriety of en- deavouring to ascertain, by experiments upon a-OnOANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE LITER. 269 nimals, the effects of those liquors which are to be used as injections. Uver unnaturally Soft. There are two species of disease in which the Liver attains a preternatural softness. In the former, the Liver is somewhat of a cream colour, not only on the surface, but also in substance; and is perfectly uniform on its surface. The softness is not owing to putrefaction, for I have observed it a few hours after death. This species I have most frequently found in children of a scrofulous habit. I have also seen it in advanced life; and I late- ly saw it very strongly marked in a case in which the patient’s husband declared, that the deceased had killed herself by dram drinking. The Liver, from this disease, attains a consider- able size, and often descends as far as the Navel; and ascends upwards, so as to compress the bowels of the Chest. In the Section of the Liver, we do not observe the slightest appearance of the Acini of that organ. The Liver, in consequence of this disorder, ac- quires a sweetish smell. Very little Bile is secreted in consequence of .this derangement in the structure of the Liver: and the Gall-bladder, which is commonly remark-270 OUTLIXES OF ANATOMY. ably small, contains generally but a small quantity of mucous fluid. The bloodvessels of the Liver bear but a small proportion to the substance of the organ, and ap- pear to be smaller than usual. The Intestines are commonly filled by a white fseculent matter, such as is found within the bowels of those who die from Jaundice. The glands connected with the Lymphatic Sys- tem are generally much enlarged, and indurated ; and sometimes we meet with a swelling of the' Mesenteric Glands, or Tubercles in the Lungs. In the other variety of disease, in which the Liver attains an unnatural softness, it does not become so large as in the former, and assumes a pink colour ; and, when cut into, seems to be composed of a number of bodies of an oval figure, somewhat of the size of barleycorns, and which are rather of a paler colour than the rest of the I.iver. In this variety of diseased Liver, we sometimes meet with Hydatids within the substahee of the Liver. To the touch, the Liver feels very much like a portion of Lungs ; and, like these, is very rea- dily torn. The bloodvessels do not acquire a preeternatural size. The Lymphatic Glands of the capsule of Glys- soN are generally enlarged and indurated.271 RUPTURE OF THE LIVER. This species of disease is not at all affected by mercury. » Rupture of the Livei\ The Liver has sometimes been ruptured in con- sequence of external violence. * Worms of the Liver, Worms have been said, by Nibelius, f and by Lieutaud, | to be sometimes found within the human Liver. I have seen them frequently within the Gall Ducts of sheep, but never in the human body. Of Biliary Calculi. Biliary Calculi have been found in every part of the Biliary Ducts and Gall-Bladder; and are very various as to number, size, colour, consist- ence, specific gravity, structure, and chemical ingredients. Biliary Calculi have been arranged into four classes. The most common kind is very soft, of the co- * On the effect of injuries of the Liver. Vid. Morgag- ni, Lit. 36. Art. 26. f Vid. Nova Act. Physico-Med. Vol. V. X Vid. Tom. I. p. 191.272 OUTLINES OF ANATOMV. lour of umber, and composed of layers loosely united to each other j and this kind is said by Thenard to consist of yellow matter of the Bile. The second class are of a yellowish green co- lour, and are in form polygonal. * We frequently meet with a great many such Calculi in the Gall-Bladder, of different sizes. Such Calculi, when broken, are found to be composed of an external crust; and from their centre there are a number of shining radiated plates, which in a few places are intersected by the dark coloured brown substance above de- scribed. The shining plates are composed of Adipocire. Some of this class are so light as to swim upon the surface of water. The third class comprehends such Biliary Cal- culi as are composed of white shining plates, and which Dr Black, thirty years ago, informed my Father was similar to Spermaceti; and Fourcroy called this substance Adipocire, from its resem- blance to fat, and wax. Such Biliary Calculi have a greasy feel; are generally of an oval figure ; rarely attain a large size ; are very often found within the Gall-Blad- der ; and, when broken, are found to be com- ' posed of brilliant white shining plates, like Mica. Such Calculi are soluble in oil of Turpentine * Fid. Plate XXXII.273 BILIARY CALCULI. and heated alcohol; but as the alcohol cools, the matter is deposited in brilliant plates. The fourth class comprehends such Biliary Calculi as are not soluble in alcohol or oil of tur- pentine ; they do not emit flame, but become red. There is a fifth, but very rare, kind of Biliary Calculi, which, as far as I know, has not been de- scribed: which is of a jet black colour ; of a shin- ing appearance, and seldom attains a large size ; and is very irregular on the surface. I have never seen such Calculi but in the Ductus Com- munis Choledochus. Biliary Calculi, of the size of an egg, have sometimes worked their way into the Colon, and have also been discharged by stool; or have work- ed their way through fistulous openings on the surface of the Abdomen. I have described such a case ; * and was ,so fortunate as to prevail upon my friend, Mr John Davy, to examine one of the Calculi which had been discharged. “ The substance you favoured me with, resem- bles Biliary Calculi as much in its chemical, as you observed it did in its physical, properties. “ From my experiments, made on a small scale, it appears to be insoluble in water; but soluble in the sulphuric, muriatic, and nitric acids, and in ammonia. * Vid. Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Stomach, (Jtf, VOL. II. SOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The first effect of concentrated sulphuric acid was to change its light brown colour to a cochin- eal red. Notwithstanding, the solution of this substance in the acid, which readily takes place, without even the application of heat, is not redj but of an olive green colour ; and it remains so even when diluted with water, no apparent altera- tion of any kind occurring. “ Nitric acid, like the sulphuric, reddened this substance ; and the solution, which rapidly form- ed, and without any effervescence, being produced, was 9f a reddish brown colour. The addition of water to the solution occasioned the separation of a reddish white matter. “ The action of muriatic acid on it was not so decided, or nearly so powerful, as that of the two preceding acids. The acid retained its former colour ; but that part of the substance which re- mained undissolved was nearly white. “ The ammoniacal solution was of a yellow colour. “ This substance melts when gently heated, and takes fire w'hen exposed to a sufficiently high temperature; and burns with a dense yellow fiame. “ Thirteen grains of It, burnt In a platina cruci- ble, afforded only -^-ths of a grain of white earthy matter ; which, as it reddened turmeric paper, and effervesced with nitric acid, appeared to contain carbonated alkali j and, as nitric acid entirely dis- solved it, and the solution was rendered turbjd by■BILIARY CALCULI. 27.7 ammonia, there seemed to be phosphat of lime present. “ Heated in a small bent glass tube, connected with a water pneumatic apparatus, only a few bubbles of gas were produced; there was no re- jfidue, but a total sublimation of the substance. The condensed product was not unlike petroleum; it had a brownish black colour, a bituminous smell, and a viscid consistence. These are all the experiments I have made on this interesting substance. Their results are so similar to those obtained from true Biliary Calcu- li, that there can be little doubt but this belongs to the same class of bodies ; and, independent of its appearance, its slightly bitter taste confirms this conclusion. ” Biliary Calculi have also been discharged through a fistulous opening, on the surface of the Abdomen, which communicated with an abscess of the Liver, or with an enlarged Gall-Bladder. The Coats of the Gall-Bladder have been found thickened and hard; and the Gall-Bladder has been sometimes much contracted, and, according to some, obliterated. The Biliary Ducts have been sometimes ob- literated. 32OUTLINES OE ANATOMY. 27S Sect. II. OF Tms ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE SPLEEN. Injlammaiion of the Spleen. Inflammation is sometimes limited to the invest- ing membrane of this organ. When the surface of Spleen has been inflamed, it very frequently adheres to the neighbouring parts; more especially to the Diaphragm, or to the large Sac of the Stomach. The substance of the Spleen has been said to be sometimes very much inflamed} but I have ne- ver seen It in such a state. The Spleen has been described as partaking of Inflammation, which probably originated in the Lungs, and which affected the left lobe of that organ. Sometimes the inflammation spreads to the Sto- mach, Colon, and Liver. The inflammation sometimes leads to abscess; and, when that happens, there is generally a large quantity of pus, which is attended by a destruc- tion of the substance of the Viscus, so that no- thing remains but the outer peritoneal covering, which forms the Cyst of the abscess. In the second volume of the Edinburgh Medir cal and Surgical Journal, there is a well marked case of this disease described by Dr Drake.* An at. Med. Tom. 5. p. 339, INFLAMMATION, &C. OI* THE SPLEEN. 2T7 / * The patient, a lady advanced in life, had very acute pain in her left side, combined with frequent sickness. Towards the conclusion of this patient’s suffer- ings, there was an evident tumour, with a distinct fluctuation, which reached from the Cartilago En- siformis to the Navel. The tumour was circular and prominent. It was tapped by Mr Burns^ and a large quantity of pus was discharged. It merits mention, that in this case the bulk of the Spleen affected the Stomach so much, that nothing could be retained; and sometimes the purulent matter of the Abscess, bursting into the Abdomen, proves a cause of sudden death. The Spleen is sometimes, though very rarely, the seat of the scrofulous tubercles. Induration of the Spleen is the most frequent disease of that organ. Sometimes the Spleen is much enlarged, and acquires a uniform hardness; sometimes, like the Liver, it is tuberculated. Portal * has remarked, that girls who do not menstruate regularly, are subject to swelling and enlargement of the Spleen: upon the men- struation being re-established, the Spleen regains its former size. Sjj/een very Small. The Spleen has often been found of a very278 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. small size. This may be the consequence of sup- puration. The Capsule of the Spleen has some- times been reduced to the state of Cartilage. Spleen Ossified, Haller and Lieutaud have made mention of the Ossification of the Spleen. ^ Stony Concretions of the Spleen. Concretions have been found in this organ sometimes, though very rarely. * Spleen of a Fretematural Softness. The Spleen has been described as being gorged by black blood, and also of a preternatural soft- ness, in conseqence of scurvy, and intermittent fevers of different kinds, which Lieutaud has observed to be sometimes the effect of Jaundice. Ruptured Spleen. ■ The Spleen has sometimes been ruptured, in consequence of an over-exertion. I met with such a case. The patient suffered at the moment the most excruciating pain in the left side, which gradually abated, but did not leave him. He * Vid. Lieutaud, tom. I. p. 231.ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE PANCREAS. 279 died, three years thereafter, from Pneumonia. The Spleen, after death, was found in an enlarg- ed state. Sect. III. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE PANCREAS. I The Pancreas is subject to inflammation and all Its consequences. The Pancreas has sometimes been found in a State of suppuration, by which the greater part of the gland has sometimes been destroyed. According to Lieutaud, this disease is often the effect of the suppression of some of the usual ' discharges; as of the Mucus, of Diarrhoea, of He- morrhoids. Gangrene of the Pana'eas. This disease is mentioned by Stork, Haller, Riolan, Lieutaud. 1. ' , In such circumstances, the Pancreas has been described as being of a deep violet colour, pre- ternaturally soft, and as containing a black fetid liquor. Scin'hus of the Pancreas, This organ is sometimes reduced to a scirrhous state.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 280 The Scirrhous Pancreas cannot generally be perceived by an examination by the hand, except where it is very much enlarged, and in persons who are much emaciated. Calculi in the Pancreas, Are by no means so frequent as in the biliary or urinary canals. Dr Baillie says he had seen only one instance of this disease *, and Dr Cam- per showed one to my Father. * These Calculi seem to be similar to the Calculi found in the ducts of the other salivary glands, being always of a white colour. Portal f relates the history of a case, in which he found a dozen of such concretions, of various sizes, some of which were as large as a haiel nut; and the Pancreatic Duct was so much en- larged, as readily to receive a very large quill. Upon reducing some of these Calculi into pow- der, and throwing them into boiling water, he has observed that they were soluble in that fluid, and had an insipid taste. In that instance, the Pancreas was much enlarged, and compressed the Aorta, which was in an aneurismal state, against the Spine. * yid. Morbid Anat. p. 226. 2d edit, Vid, Anat. Mcdicale, Tom. V.ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE OMENTA. 2SI Sect. IV. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE OMENTA. The Omentum is subject to the same organic derangements as the subcutaneous fat. It is frequently inflamed, and contracts adhe- sions with the neighbouring parts ; and, in the case of a Tumour of the Stomach and Intestines, it generally adheres to it. Steatoms are sometimes connected with the O- mentum ; so that it somewhat resembles a bunch of grapes. Scirrhus of the Omentum, also, has been de- scribed. Hydatids are sometimes connected to the Omentum; and water has been collected within the Sac of the Omentum. The Omentum has frequently been found gan- grenous, in cases of strangulated Hernia:.282 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY* EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXXII. In this Engraving, six Biliary Calculi, of the form of polygons, are represented, and nearly of the natural colour. It may be proper to add, that we sometime^ meet with a great number of such Biliary Calculi within the Gall-Bladder, of different sizes j though nearly of the same figure: • u * Authors on the Organic Derangements of the Liter! Morgagni, Lit. XXXVIIL Art. 31. Art. 42. Lih XXXVI. Art. 3. Art. 26. Bianchi Historia Hepatica. Genevae 1785, Burserius de Hepatitide, in his Inst. Med. Pract. 8 VO. Lipsiae 1790. Dr Saunders on the Structure and Diseases 6f the Liver. London. Dr Maclean de Hepatitide. Edin. 1790. Dr Clark, Edin. Med. Com. Vol. XIV. Cleghorn on the Diseases of Minorca. Lond. 1762. Girdlestone’s Observations on Hepatitis, and the Spasmodic Diseases of India. Lond. 1787. Lind’s Account of the Diseases of Europeans in Hot Climates. Lond. 1768. Bontii Obs. Select. Clark’s Observations on the Diseases in long Voyage? to Hot Climates. Lond. 1773.AUTHORS ON BILIARY CALCULI. 283 Chisholm, Edin. Med. Com. Vol. XL Baillie’s Morbid Anatomy. 2d Edit. Lond. 1797, Autlim'5 on Biliary Calaili. Morgagni, Epist- 37. Lancisi, Dissert. X. Gmelin de Cholelithis Human, Tubing, 1763. Med. Essays of Edinburgh. Vol. I. Sabatier de Variis Calculorum Biliar. Specieb. B. S. Albinus Annot. Acad. Lib. 3. Leidae. 1756. E. Sandifort Mus. Anat. Lugd. Batav. 1793. A. M. Wadsberg, de Cholelithis per Abscessum rup- tum egredientibus. Upsal 1788. Th. Coe, on Biliary Concretions. London 1757. Halleri Element- Phys. Vol. VL Vic<2 d’Azyr’s Treatise. Fourcroy, in his System of Chemistry. Dr Saunders, in his Treatise on the Liver. Thenard, Mem. d’Arcueil. Tom. II. PowEL on the Bile. Soemmering, De Concrementis Biliariis. Walter, Anatomisches Museum. Berlin 1796— has added Plates of a great number of Biliary Calculi, which are very beautifully coloured from nature. Bostock, Nicholson’s Journal, IV. 136.■ '^’f 4i*rO jiih.f ,if.l0H*fi3O' ' . ^", r^MfewJ \\yrit>iitd/'- I# f’'«’JuJufl[ ’ ■ ■ '# ' '* .' -V. I • Tf- HV-'. , i - • ,»4 ■ 'T' -» -n riHor'cSn-iV: ;;iB '* 'i Vfi’rsiW ' •; / . ’ , ■ !. ^ .l«^ » <4», ,.,. I, r. ..* .tft* .;k-,Jk/-. ^<\dvji mvi*- a/ - .i ,li ‘t>JJ»i.i .U-i>.K •oMi ^ >., aiWjJIV ,;! ) .r‘ . t ' _ /H/-.iJloir; TT:. | '•• .■ ,' ’• rA.fw-r ,^fWf n<> . j .I’T' ’'' ' IBE'' ^'* • ''7' *’ * ^ «•, .^' ' V flU/i'f -/ Jfj fHQj<r^'. »,It ,; .-, 4 :''M»»|0' . A' * ;'»\ ' ••• - > ■''->‘oiifd ,a?;.'>.i. T’ * *• i. f»t> 4 •‘'i',' • ’ ‘■f. - f •»?<>“ M !^''' -T^J•.’,,' ' '; ; Mf^ # V X * ' - j.-ft • . iv/. M % * * V hLM jiafV. -ria!a. oir": ^,<!( V' ,. '■ Jijsjkf ■;^,r •«« t?-t'*■., ; -V i ;. -'•.'•'■•.■■• > ' ■ ' ■I i :'\- ; "'V T.. Ife. V ^ > : • >•;: *' V >, • • • •' '. *' 'i ' I '*• *'^ ’*V X. ' v« ^ . ■’ 'f :V ''*•• sPART VII.■ • ,r *> 1" ■ "* • : 'i, •'" '*'• * ♦ . •:' ■>^;'^* ;.y. - #' ,. ^ W; . * • -M' : : : ;t • ^ ^ ; 'll ^ I • < "^ •* yi w-J. . -; r^.'ir-* ri 1 ^ - ■ ■ JIV T H A-'I w . t - ‘IP . ' 'll ‘ V. ■..-.,:3f -i t -!•«*•> ra” i/.-' V ' ^ ‘ < •1 «•»•**-31 fp ' ( T • • . * ^ • if'. t. l \ % t- • --. ’f=‘‘' ' ’. **'" i' T ' !3'r .'<* ■5 \ •»' T, - • . ■ ■. .1^ •> O. - ‘ , • * J ■'>’ T-’^'>'»>*- r ^ * "ft 1 \ ,*’» I ■ r • jOF THE LACTEAL VESSELS, 2S7 ✓ CHAPTER I. OF THE LACTEAL VESSELS THROUGH WHICH THE NUTRITIOUS PART OF QUR FOOD PASr SES INTO THE BLOOD. The vessels through which the nutritious part of our food passes into the blood, which form a part of the Lymphatic or Absorbent System, have been called, on account of the resemblance of their con- tents to milk, Lacteal Vessels, \ Sect. I. OF THE LACTEAL VESSELS. The Lacteal Vessels are of a small size ; have very tough, though thin Coats, through which the colour of their contents is perceptible ; have a jointed appearance ; are more numerous than r fhe veins which convey the red part of the blood j288 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. and freely and repeatedly communicate with each other, and with certain glands, which have been named Lacteal Glands, or, from their situation, Mesenteric Glands» There are small vessels in other parts of the body, which are similar to the Lacteal Vessels as to structure and office; and these have been named Lymphatic Vessels, as they are filled by Lymph. The Lymphatic Vessels are proper to every part of the body ; and though those of the human Brain have not been seen or represented by any author excepting Mascagni, still, there is no reason to doubt of their existence. In every part of the absorbent system, there are Valves ; but these are not equally numerous; for, in some of the vessels, there are four or five pairs of Valves in the space of an inch ; but, in others, not above one pair in the same space. These Valves perform their office with very great accuracy, even after death. They support the pressure of a column of quicksilver, without giving way, and prevent its retrograde course. The greater number of the Lymphatic Vessels follow the same course as the Arteries and Veins, but are more numerous than these; and they pass through Glands, which, in all respects, re- semble the Lacteal Glands.VOL. II. T OF THF. LACTEAL AND LA’-MPHATIC GLANDS. 289 Sect. II. • / - f OF THE SITUATION AND STRUCTURE OF THE LACTEAL AND LYMPHATIC GLANDS. The Lacteal and Lymphatic Glands are found singly, or disposed in clusters; and are much more numerous in some, than in other parts of the body. They abound in the Mesentery, Axilla, sides of the Neck, in the Groin, and at the great division of the Aorta into the lliacte Communes. The Glands connected with this system are various in colour and size in. different places, and also at different periods of life, being much larger in early than advanced life ; and, generally speak- ing, are of an oval or rounded figure. These Glands are connected to the neighbour- ing parts by cellular substance, and are covered by a membrane of considerable density, upon which a number of bloodvessels are distributed. It has not yet been determined, by dissection, whether or not there are Nerves which entef into the substance of the Lymphatic Glands ; though many of these lye in the immediate vici- nity of the large trunks of the Nerves. There are some of the Lymphatic Vessels which pass through several glands; but others do not enter into one of these glands : hence a poison may enter the blood without creating a Bubo in any part of the body.290 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The Lymphatic Vessels which enter the Glands have been called tne Lymphatics of the first or- der, or the Fasa Inferentia\ and those which conic out from the Glands, the vessels of the second oi'uer, or Vasa Efferentia. Anatomists have differed in opinion as to the structure of the Lymphatic Glands. My Father has represented these Glands as being chiefly com- posed of a plexus of very minute vessels; and states, that the smaller branches of the Vasa In- fercntia join with many of those of the Vasa Ef- ferentia ; whereas other authors have affirmed, that there are a number of small cells interposed between the smaller ramifications of the Vasa In- ferentia and Vasa Efferentia. . Sect. III. of THE COURSE OF THE LACTEAL VESSELS. These vessels take their rise from the Villi of the Intestines by short radiated branches; pass for some way under the muscular coat; then perforate it, and join another set of Lacteal Vessels; and form a plexus of vessels, which is placed between the layers of the Mesentery, and follows nearly the same course as the bloodvessels. . The Lacteal Vessels of the smaller Intestines .are more numerous than those of the larger ; and those of the Intestinum Ileum are more numerous- than those of the Jejunum.291 CAUSES OF ABSORPTION OF tHE LACTEALS. The Lacteal Vessels, in their course along the Mesentery, pass through two or three Lacteal Glands; and at length the Lacteal Vessels unite, and form two or three trunks, which accompany the Superior Mesenteric Artery, till they reach the right side of the Aorta, where they pass into the origin of the Thoracic Duct, which passes upwards along the Spine, and pours its contents into the blood, near to the junction of the Internal Jugu^ lar and Subclavian Veins* Sect.IV. OP THE CAUSES AND MANNER OF Absorption. The contents of the Lacteal and Lymphatic Vessels cannot be propelled by the Vis a Tergo^ as the Lymphatic is unconnected with the Vascu- lar System ; nor by a muscular contraction of the coats of the Intestines. The Lymph enters the Lymphatics where mus- cular pressure can be of no avail, as within the bones: the fluid therefore enters the Lymphatic Vessels by capillary attraction* But capillary attraction only moves the fluid a given way within the vessel. After a certain time the liquor stops, unless the contents of the Lymphatics be propelled forwards, T 2OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 292 by means of the muscular contraction of the ves- sels themselves. The contraction probably begins at the very orifice of the Lymphatic Vessels, and is continued along the vessel, in so perfect a manner, as to propel the contents of the vessel: And, in some animals, as fishes, valves are wanting. The Valves no doubt assist in determining the contents of the Lacteal and Lymphatic Vessels, towards the heart; as also the contraction of the neighbouring muscles, and even the pulsation of neighbouring arteries. The muscular contraction of the Lymphatic Vessels may be distinctly seen in the Sea Egg, or Star fish, where it is very perfect: in these animals, there are no Valves to assist in determining the contents of these vessels towards the Heart. By means of this muscular contractile power, the Lymphatic Vessels adapt themselves to the different substances; opening, and receiving those which are of a mild nature, and contracting upon those which are of an irritating nature ; thus the colouring principle in wine, is much more minute than the globules of milk, notwithstanding whichi it is not taken up by the Lacteal Vessels. The muscular power lessening the diameter of the Lymphatic Vessel,* increases the capillary at- traction ; for the smaller the diameter of a tube, the higher its contents rise. The Eschinus Marmus, ,when it endeavours to seize any substance, enlarges the extremity of itsOF THE CAUSES OF ABSORPTION. 29S tubes 5 but at other times, it contracts them. It can elongate the Lymphatic Vessels, and thus in- crease or lessen the diameter of the Absorbing Vessel. Our absorbents probably also vary their calibre, • according to the matter to be absorbed. It is probable that different parts of the same Lymphatic possess very different degrees of irri- tability. These vessels are probably more Irritable at their mouths than elsewhere ; which irritability is propagated along the Lymphatic Vessel by the stimulus of the Chyle. This -is by no means a solitary case ; for par- ticular parts of membranes are endowed with very different degrees of irritability : thus the Pharynx, Glottis, and Larynx, are lined by the same membrane ; but that part of the membrane which lines the Larynx, is much more exquisitely sensible than that of the Pharynx j for if a drop of water, or even of warm saliva, gets into the Glottis, even distant muscles are thrown into con- vulsions, and a fit of coughing is excited. Farther, at different periods of life the absorb- ent Vessels possess different degrees of irritabi- lity. Absorption goes on more quickly during very early life than in old age ; and it has even been affirmed by some authors, that the Lymphatic Vessels of young persons continue to perform ab- sorption for a short time after death.OUTLINES OF AKATO.Vy, 294 Sect. V. « OF THE UTILITY OF A KNOWLEDGE OF THE . COURSE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE LYMPH- ATIC SYSTEM. The Lacteal and Lymphatic Vessels assist in carrying on some of the most important functions of the animal economy. 1. Through the Lacteal Vessels, the nutritious part of our food is carried into the blood. 2. By means of the Lymphatic Vessels, the Bile, Semen, and other secreted fluids, attain their proper consistence, and are rendered more fit for their several purposes. 3. The Lymphatic Vessels prevent the unnatu- ral stagnation and accumulation of fluids within the shut cavities. 4. The Lymphatic Vessels Indirectly contribute to the growth of the body. By these vessels, the original matter is taken up, in order to make room for new ingredients which are about to be deposited ; and this takes place, not only during the formation of the softer parts, but also during the formation of the Skeleton. ' » 5. By a knowledge of the Lymphatic System, we may gain a knowledge of the source and man- ner in which many diseases are propagated from pne part of the body to another.or THE FUNCTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 295 A poison which has entered one part of the Lymphatic System, is rapidly conveyed into the blood, producing, in its course, a swelling of the Lymphatic Glands, between the place where it was received and the heart, which points out the source and manner in which diseases are propa- gated. A Blister, for example, applied to the neck, does not occasion a swelling of the Lymphatic Glands immediately above it: those glands only are affected which are situated between it and the Heart; and the course of the Lymphatic Vessels may readily be traced, as the Coats have fre- quently been considerably thickened, in conse- quence of the stimulus. ' A venereal infection, in the same manner, cre- ates a swelling of the upper cluster of the Ingui- nal Glands, though the inferior cluster be equal- ly near to the place of the infection, and receives Nerves and Bloodvessels from the same sources j whereas a confirmed Pox, connected with Nodes or Ulceration on the Tibia, occasions a swelling of the lower cluster of Inguinal Glands. If a nurse, or the child she suckles, is afflicted by the Venereal disease, the one readily commu- nicates the disease to the other. ' It is frequently of moment to discover which has been originally in fault. The Lymphatic Glands which are affected determine the point. If the Axillary Glands are affected, the disease has probably originated from the child j but, if296 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. the child has imbibed the poison from its nurse, the Lymphatic Glands around the mouth become, in the first place, diseased. It seems probable, that the Venereal poison, in some cases, enters at the orifices of the Lymph- atic Vessels ; for it sometimes occasions a Bubo, without a previous Gonorrhcea or Chancre. It may not be improper to add, that it is pos- sible that the blood may be tainted by the Vene- real poison, though there is no swelling in any of the Glands of the Lymphatic System ; as some of the Lymphatic Vessels do not lead to any of the Lymphatic Glands. Ihe Lymphatic Glands are sometimes swollen, from the Measles, Scarlatina, Plague, Cancer; and those tumours in the Lymphatic Glands are of the same nature with those diseases which gave them birth. ■ ” • ' Hence, if a Surgeon extirpates a cancerous mamma, he must also take out the enlarged and diseased Axillary Lymphatic Glands; because the 'Axillary Glands are as much diseased as the Mam-, ma, and may generate more poison. Besides, these diseased glands pour the poison directly into the blood. Hence, a strong argument for the identity of diseases may be' deduced from the Lymphatic Vessels and Lymphatic Glands be- ing affected in the same manner by diseases. The Lymphatic Glands assume the same mor- bid appearance from Chancre and Gonorrhoea jor THE FUNCTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 297 and hence, these disorders are probably produced by the same kind of poison. 6. From the state of the Lymphatic Glands in the neighbourhood of a diseased part, an opinion may be formed, whether the Tumour is in an in- dolent state, or whether acrid matter has been ge- nerated within it. Thus, take the case of a woman labouring un- der a Scirrhus of the Breast. If the Lymphatic Glands of the Axilla are swollen, there is reason to apprehend that the Scirrhus has degenerated into a Cancer ; and the swelling of the whole arm is an index of the advanced state of the Cancer. This circumstance is also a proof, that the Veins coivceying red blood do not perform absorption / because, though the enlarged and diseased Axil- lary Lymphatic Glands press upon the Veins con- veying red blood, yet the Cephalic Vein, which passes between the Pectoral and Deltoid muscles, is not, cannot be in the smallest degree compres- sed. 7. The knowledge of the course of the Lymph- atic System may also suggest the most efficacious method of administering medicines, with the view to mitigate the acrimony of several poisons, and thus to remove the danger of such disorders. For example, the Lues Venerea, which is re- I ceived and propagated by the Lymphatic Vessels, may be more efTectually cured by rubbing in mer- cury,' so that it shall pass through the Lymphatic‘208 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Vessels, and Lymphatic Glands, than when giv- en by the mouth. Thus, also, the Small-pox has been disarmed of its virulence by inoculation. The variolous poison becomes less acrid during its passage through the Lymphatic Vessels, and Lymphatic Glands, than when the infection has been receiv- ed in the natural way j for the lungs are then primarily affected. The above circumstances led my Father, in HIS Treatise on the Lymphatic System, to propose Inoculation of the Measles, in order to diminish the severity of a disease, which, though in itself rarely fatal, is extremely apt to induce diseases of the Lungs. Dr Francis Home, about an year thereafter, endeavoured to communicate the Meades to chil- dren, by dipping lint in the blood of a patient who had the disease. The experiment was not attended with a favourable result. His success might probably have been greater, if the inocula- tion had been practised, as in the Small-pox. That my reader may gain a still more extensive view of this very important subject, I have sub- joined those conclusions which my Father.has annexed to his Treatise f on the Lymphatic System. f Vid. the 2d Edition of liis Treatise de Venis Lympha- ticis Valvulosis, Edinburgi, 1770, p. 101-119.or THE FUNCTIONS OT THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, 299 “ (i.) Quumln vasisvalvulisstipatishumorum Gursus meGhanice promoveri possit, doctrina hsec commodis, ab exercitatione et frictione corporis nostri, in multis morbis, sperandis, novam quasi lucem alTundit. “ (2.) Quum ex dictis constet humores sor- ptos, non in venas rubras proximas, sed ad cor de- xtrum recta via ferri; inde firmo minus talo niti videntur theorise plures, quas virorum maxime ce- lebrium, Boerhaavii, Halleri, aliorumque in- genium ita ornavit, ut ubique in artem pro veris admissse fuerint: Quales sunt quas de bile ab in- testinis, et adipe ab omento, ad venam portarum; vel de spiritu quodam aerio vivificante, ad cor si- nistrum raplo, finxerunt. “ (3.) Quum vasa lymphatica valvulosa in cor dextrum desinant, materia acris, a'quocunque cor- poris loco resorpta, pulmones, post cor, prse re- liquis organis, salutat; atque major!, quam in ullo alio organo, copia, quoniam omnis cum san- guine per eos transit. Hinc organ! cujuscunque in suppurationem soluti contagium, promptius cum iis, quam cum ullo alio organo, communicatur. “ Atque, si quando materia purulenta in ipsis pulmonibus gignitur, hujus particulas resorptae sta- tim a corde dextro in ipsos recurrunt omnes, ut inde sanationis spes quodammodo minuatur. “ (4.) Chirurgi quidam, multum in praxi ver- sati, gonorrhceam virulentam et luem veneream, quse prseter genitalia omnes fere corporis partes adficit, natura sua prorsus discrepare, nec illamOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 300 in hanc mutarl unquam, adserere non dubitarunt. Disputarunt etiam, an bubo ad hanc, vel ad il- lam potius, referri debeat. Ex supra dictis vero adparuit, bubonem esse materias contagiosae per venas lymphaticas intus susceptas et in glandulis conglobatis obstructse efFectum. Ex quo igitur demonstratur nexus inter gonorrhoeam virulentani et luem jam invalescentem j quum bubo sit quasi medium inter hanc et illam. Si enim omnem ma- teriam morbosam in glandula obstructa hasrere, et snppuratione superveniente ejici, supponamus; quod tamen rarissime accidere, et lymphaticorum decursus suadet, et experientia tristis confirmat j leger a lue tutus evader. Si vero non omnis has- reat; vel si bubo discutiatur, i. e. si venenum procedat, et sursum per venas lymphaticas duc- tumque thoracfcum in sanguinem progrediatur ; cum reliquo corpore communicatur malum, et ae- grotus lue venerea, vulgo dicta, laborat. Mirum quidem videtur, res experientia quotidiana com- probatas in dubium revocari. “ (5.) Lues venerea, uti vidimus, per venas lymphaticas saepe in corpus sibi ingressum quserit; et in glandulis conglobatis, quas salutat, hand raro haeret. Mercurius, nec quatenus sanguinis velo- citatem et vim inciter, nec quatenus particulas morbosas ejiciat, sed ratione quasi specifica, si practicis nonnullis fidts adhiberi debet, huic mor- bo mederi videtur. Hinc forte baud prorsus inu- tile esset, mercuriiim et mercufialia loco primario adfecto admovere j qure, iisdem viis insistendo.OF THE FUNCTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 301 veneni vires fortasse lenirent vel delerent, ante- quara sanguinem ingrediretur. “ (6.) Si quando glandulae lymphaticae, cor at- que scirrhum, aliumve tumorem, interjecta;, in- durescere atque attolli incipiunt, scirrhum in can- crum occultum mutari, aliosque tumores in hu- morem acrem fundi coepisse, discimus. De qui- bus vero expertissimos ac recentissimos medicos practices quotidie, in aegrorum damnum, haliuci- nari, observare licet. Sic egregius Storck, * a- liique multi, cancrum occultum pro scirrho passim, habent. ' “ (7.) Immo scirrhum in cancrum mutatum scire licet, quamvis glandulae lymphaticae, in quas vasa ejus lymphatica terminantur, situ suo, tactum fugiunt; si forte membra alia, quorum lympha- tica vasa in easdem glandulas desinunt, oedema occupat. f “ (8.) Porro a glandularum lymphaticarum, quae induruerint, situ, judicare datur, an conta- gium systema lymphaticum solum alFecerit, atque nondum cum sanguinis rivo commixtum fuerit; an potius, sanguini prius commixtum, ab illo ite- rum ejiciatur. “ Sic si venerea lues, coitu concepta, glandu- las inguinis superiores mulctaverit, recentem esse pronunciare licet; si vero inferiores vel remotas afFecerit, luem confirmatam esse constat. “ (9.) Cum itaque scirrho-cancrum exsdndere * In Hbello de Clcuta. t Vid. supra, a pag. 92. ad 97.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY'. 302 decretum sit, glandulas lymphaticas, quae induru- erint, simul auferendi necessitas chirurgis patere potest. “ (I o.) Patet etiam quantum se jcgrosque spe inani lactent chirurgi, qui, post maminam, scirrho- cancrosam exscissam, felix inde omen ducunt quod axillares glandulse, quas prius induruerant, quas- que non abstulerint, nunc de^mescere incipiunt: Quum glandularum harum solutio contagium im- medlcabile cum sanguine nunquam non com- misceat. “ (ii.) Pensitandum nunc venit, quantum morbos iramedicabiles, dum corpus nostrum per systema lymphaticum subingrediuntur, priusquam sanguini commisceantur, distinguere ; atque, ho- rum cursum Intercipiendo, efFectus deleterios prae- venire, valeamus. “ Apud auctores, qui de peste egerunt, fre- quens occurrit observatio, bubones, nimirum, pes- tiferos suppuratione solutos, valde salutares esse. Si itaque prima infectionis in cegrotante nota fue- rlt hujiismodi tumoris inexspectata eruptio ; quod quidem et medici Galli, et alii etiam, spectatas fidei auctores, nobis adsertum reliquerunt; * un- de verisimile videatur ab absorptione materiae pes- tiferae per venas lymphaticas hunc provenIre: Nonne, hoc in casu, excisionem harum glandu- larum eximii usus fore, spes est ? Radicitus enim' tollit materiam pestiferam in glandulis hjerentem j obstat, ne plus ejusdem, hisce saltern viis, sangui- * INIead de natura ©t origine pestis.OF THE FUNCTIONS OP THE LYMrilATIC SYSTEM. 303 ni immisceatur; et fontlculum, vel ulcus, efficit, per quod corpus a particulis noxiis, jam forte in sanguinem abreptis, liberari potest. * “ Dum de atrocissimo hoc morbo dico, notare utile sit, eum saspius glandulas faciei, colli, et extremitatis superioris, occupare, quam inguinum et extremitatis inferioris; ex hoc forte, quod illae aeri externo plus exponuntur. Hinc corpus bene tectum habere, ad pestem avertendam, (^uiddam forte valebit. “ Corporis porro inunctionem, quae venarum lymphaticarum ostia oppilat, et luis venereae, et pestis forte etiam, contagium, quatenus per cutim externam haec suscipitur, quodam modo depul- suram, non sine causa conjicere licet. “ (i2.) Ponamus, quod chirurgo, inter can- criim exscindendum, infelici adeo esse contigerit, ut, vulnerato digito suo, virus subingressum tu- morem in glandula quadam axillari moverit: Nonnae glandulte hujus exscissio, cum inustione vulnerati digiti, ad dirum hoc contagium praeve- niendum, illi commendanda est “ (13.) Plerique medici bubonis suppuratlo- nem, molestam quamvis semper at saepe ttedio plenam, potius quam resolutionem ejusdem, mo- * Mead, de curatione pestis, 1i£ec habet: “ Ubi pestis minus saevo morsu lacessit, in molliores decumbit glandulas, quae ad corporis superficiem prominent; quales sunt ingui- nalcs, axillares, <S:c. Si convalescere datur aegrotanti, tu- mores ii, uti in variolis, legitimam nanciscuntur suppuratio- nem, morboque naturam hac via exonerant. ”V 304< OUTLINES OP ANATOMY. h’untur. Hanc enim luis venerece periculum gra- vius segro intentare, credunt. “ Nuper vero chirurgi quidam, ut minori cum tasdio et asgri incommode sanitatem restituerent, bubones radicitus exscindere tentarunt. Sed quan- tumvis operatio haec caute instituatur, propter ar-» terias venasque vicinas, discrimine plena est j nec tantam medelam morbus facile medicabilis pos- tulat. “ (14O Variolarum insitio, contagio natural!- ter contracto, preeter alia multa, in eo prsestat, quod in hoc venenum, in acre fluctuans, in primas vias, inque pulmones, adtrahitur ; in quibus lati- tare et inflammationes et obstructiones valde peri- culosas excitare valet: In insitione vero arte ef- fecta, vitium organa mlnorls moment!, et subcu- tanea, tantummodo percurrit, antequam sanguini immisceatur. Hinc raro virus organa nobiliora adoritur; sed cutem, quam hie morbus, plus quam alias partes, adfectare videtur, petit. “ (15.) Quam feliciter cesserit variolarum in- sitio, nemlnem later. Morbillorum vero insitio- nem multo utiliorem et feliciorem fore, omnino persuasum habeo. Nimis enim notum est, quam procllvis sit hie morbus ad pulmones infestandos, quantamque exinde stragem edat. Hoc, prime contagio in aere volitanti, et In pulmonum cellulas inter inspirandum hausto, iis tenaciter adhasrenti, inflammanti, tussim hinc vel naturae conatum ad materiam noxiam depellendam, concitanti, magna ex parte deberi videtur. Si vero per insiilonemOF THE FUNCTIONS OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 305 * 0 arte factam inducerentur morbilli, ab inflamma- tione pulmones magis vacuos fore, et cutim fere tantum morbum invasurum esse, verisimillimum fit. Hoc si ita contingeret, quantum commodi et utilitatis generi humano adferret ? Incommodi aut damni nihil adferre potest experimentum. In- sitionein fieri posse, probabile est, si tantum pus- , tulas, vel maculae, maturae gossypio perfricentur, I et hoc dein, vel recens, vel vitro accurate obtu- rate immissum et conservatum, vulnusculo inda- tur, eadem prorsus ratione ac materia variolosa, j ‘‘ (ifi*) Scrophula glandulas lymphaticas prae- sertim occupat. Hinc, medicamenta externa de- obstruentia hoc in morbo in primis profutura, j censendum est: Quum, per venarum lymphatica- rum resorptionem, immutata fere ad ipsius sedem li pertingere possint j atque exinde solida aptius sti- I mulare, materiam morbosam efficacius corrigere !| et mutare, valeant, quam remedia interna vulgo ' adhibita, quae, per longas vasorum ambages, de- ]i bilitata et permutata, ad loca adfecta tandem fe- I runtur. Hinc forte, ubi colli glandulie plectun- j; tur, vesicantium, quie capiti admota sunt, com- , jnoda. jl “ (^7') lo omnibus denique glandularum con- |j globatarum adfectibus, multo saepius, quam solef, Ij in usum revocanda sunt remedia externa, ” 1 M I I VOL. II. uPART VIII.ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. SOO CHAPTER I. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. The Coats of the Lymphatic Vessels are similat to the serous membranes, and subject to similar Organic derangements, Inflammation, Adhesion, and Ossification. The Lymphatic Vessels some- times are much enlarged, or become Varicose, and sometimes are ruptured. * The Lymphatic Glands are much exposed to disease. They are frequently enlarged from Lues Venerea, Cancer, Scirrhus and Scrofula, by which they are filled by a matter like cheese j and some- times these glands are filled by bone. ScHREB has described a Calculus, which he found within the Thoracic Duct. In a case of a Diabetes, I found the Absorbent System in a very peculiar state. * Mr White of Manchester has imputed the Plilegmasia doleus to a rupture of the Lymphatic Vessels.310 dUTLlNEa OF ANATOMY. The Iliac, Lumbar, Mesenteric, Casliac, and Bronchial Glands, were much enlarged. Their size varied from that of a dried pea to that of a walnut: one of the bronchial glands was about the size of a small hen’s egg. The enlarged Me- senteric Glands were of an oval figure, much flat- tened, and of a yellowish colour. There were a great many enlarged glaikls in that part of the Mesocolon attached to the Colon ; but I found no appearance of Glands upon the Coats of the small or large Intestines. Those Glands nearest the Intestines were of the smallest size. Those near to, or at what is called by Anatomists the Root of the Mesentery, were the largest. The natural texture of many of these Glands was in a great measure destroyed. No vessels could be seen in them, though some of them con- tained matter more or less fluid. The Lumbar Glands were filled tvith a matter like the fibrine of the blood. The Bronchial Glands were to the touch hard, and filled by a calcareous matter of a dirty white colour, and very like to chalk and water. Although almost all the Glands connected with the Absorbent System were considerably enlarg- ed, yet none of the Lacteals or Absorbents seem- ed to be dilated ; nor ^ere any of the Lacteal Vessels filled with Chyle. The arborescent course of the Absorbents of ' the Liver could be distinctly traced, as they were filled with Lymph. Unfortunately, in the remc-311 authors ok the ABSORBEfft. VESSELS. val of the Thoracic and Abdominal Viscera, the Thoracic Duct was destroyed. Authors on the Absorbent Vessels. i Monro de Veftis Lymphaticis ValvuHs. Berolinl 1755, 2d Edit. Edinburgi 1770. Hewson on the Absorbents. London 1764-. Cruickshanks oh the Absorbents. London 178GV Haase de Vasis Cutis et Intest. Lipsias 1786. WiNTERBOTTOM, Thesis, Edinb. 1781. Mascagni, de Venis Lymphaticis. Fol. 1787, CHeston’s Pathological Inquiries. Glocester 1766.VI1 ft tirt «o ^1 A t^ar !%•v. r^y ’ fjsTj^ tSBtr * * * « *' ' ',** T— * ■^ * •’ ' '■ **‘' ^ ‘ * >i4ii < -M f i J r iu rw <1', ' • * • :.^. ..■ :;.r . ^ ‘TH’ ♦' >1'.? '.T-.i :,r^-y fjf^x c ^ ' I-' . .'. ’ .Ml - - .: •aki^n, rji'/r'* ^vt - ..jij • • ^,,/j -■'■ '• r'::;.‘ y*‘- f■ ■ -••>« 4.v/. I . *■ * •58IPART IX.\ •'r. >v;v’^/•’0 r ^ * ^ ••'. Wr» r:- .W Uj-f ' «•( • • —• - **•«» •"’Jv •' ; 1 ^ ^ i^ i &lSHiM^ .4 i .. .^ ,’ '’ .'. /, ^ * C ' '* ’-■' y I ■r.^ t. • u -iC; it t** t n* »r' «4 r»r?V»^.Vf*'‘’' -■;V 44- >, V .... >.» , . ^ •; ” ^ ’»'’‘^’^jt, -i:*i<i _-.,.r' ^ .Ti;. . ' ^ t f 4^r i..' d ■? V V*. '( • v-fiii several small branches of the. Internal Mammary j general ACCOUNT OF THE PARIETES, &C. *1.5 i CHAPTER I. ; ' GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE PARIETES, AND CONTENTS OF THE THORAX. i Sect. I. ll To expose the Muscles covering the fore part of* il the Thorax, an incision should be made through !| the skin in the direction of the Breast-bone, and il extended obliquely outwards along each of the I; Clavicles. Upon raising up the skin, cellular |l substance, fat, Mammas; the G^'eater Pectoral |j Muscles, covered by a thin tendinous Aponeu- l! rosis, and at their upper part by the thin mus- ii cle called Platysma Myoides, come into view. The fibres of the Pectoral Muscle, which arise il from the Cartilages of the fifth and sixth Ribs Il and Clavicle, converge, and form a strong ten- ’ don, which is fixed into the Os Humeri j ahd ! on the fore part of the Pectoral Muscle, there areOUTLINES OF ANATOMY, 316 Arteries, which come through the interstices be- tween the Ribs. On the lower edge of the Pec- toral Muscle, the extremities of the Long Tho- racic Arteries are distributed. Under the Greater, the Lesser Pectoral Mus- cle is situated. The sides of the Thorax are covered by the Serrated muscle, called Serratus Anticus Major. Upon removing the Serratus Anticus Majori the oblique muscular fibres between the Ribs, called Intercostal Muscles^ come into view ; un- der which there is a membrane, of an opaque white colour, called Pleura ; but, upon the air be- ing admitted into the cavity of the Chest, that membrane seems transparent, the Lungs which were before in contact with it having collapsed. Upon the muscles of the Thorax being remov- ed, the conical figure of the Thorax becomes e- vident, the seeming breadth of the upper part of it being occasioned by the prominence of the shoulders. The form of the Ribs, and the manner in which these are connected to the Breast-bone, have been explained in the preceding volume. When the muscles of the Thorax have been removed, the student should attend to the ob- lique direction of the Ribs in respect to the Spine; and that, upon the ribs being raised, their Carti- lages are twisted ; hence the force is removed by which the Ribs were elevated; and they regain theirMEAStJUEMENT OP THE CAPACITY OF THE THORAX. 317 original situation, in consequence of the elastic reaction of their Cartilages. Measurements of the Capacity of the Thorax, The following are the measurements of the ca- pacity of the Thorax, taken at an average from a number of bodies. Inches. From the top to the bottom of the Breast- bone ------ 6 From the top to the bottom of the Thorax, at the fides of the Dorsal VertebriE - lo From the top to the bottom of the Pleura, at the outer side of the Pleura I2§ The breadth of the cavity of the Thorax at the top of the Sternum - - . 4 The breadth of the Thorax behind the Car- tilage Ensiformis - - - - 10 The Depth of the Thorax, and Distance from the Fore to the Back part of it. From the upper end of the Sternum to the Dorsal Vertebrie - - "3 From the under end of the Sternum to the Dorsal Vertebrae - - - 6c^ From the anterior extremity of the eighth Rib to the deepest part behind it318 OUTUKES OF ANATOMY. Of the Female Mammae. The Mammae, or Breasts, are of a hemisphe- rical shape, and adhere to the anterior part of the Greatef Pectoral Muscle, by means of cellular substance. The breasts of the male are termed Mamillae. The fize of the Breasts is very various at dif- ferent periods of life. At birth they are large, and equal in size in both sexes; and a small quantity of a mucous fluid may then be squeezed out of them in cither sex. A short time before, or about the period of Puberty, they grow rapidly in the female. At the approach of the Menses, the Breasts en- large ; and, at the cessation of the Menses, shrink. The Mammse attain a large size towards the latter months of utero-gestation j and, from their weight, become pendulous while a woman is a nurse; the cellular substance uniting the Gland to the Pectoral Muscle, being much elongated. The Mammae of some savage nations, as the Hottentots, are frequently so long, that the mo- ther can suckle her child whilst she carries it on her back. The Mammx are composed of glandular folli- cles, lactiferous ducts, fat, bloodvessels, nerves, and lymphatic vessels.319 OF THE FEMALE MAMM«. The Mamma is surrounded by a dark-coloured line, called Areola j upon the surface of which, there are the orifices of glands which secrete a mucous fluid, in order to prevent excoriation. From the glandular parts of the Mammas, the smaller lactiferous tubes arise, which are united into twelve or sixteen larger tubes, most of which open near to the apex of the conical-shaped pro- jection of the Mamma, called its Papilla. In the Papilla, which is very elastic, the lac- tiferous tubes are coiled up within cellular sub- ' stance, in such a manner, that the milk does not flow through them until they are extended. The Mammas are largely supplied with blood from the External and Internal Mammary Arte- ries. The Nerves of the Mamma are derived from the Axillary Plexus. By the Breasts, the milk is secreted which is intended for the nourishment of the child for some time after birth. This secretion begins a little before delivery; and the milk continues to flow for many months, if the woman suckles her child. There is much difference as to the quantity of the milk which is secreted ; and even in the same woman in difier- ent pregnancies. The child, by means of its Lips, grasps the Nipple, which excludes the external air j it then it « . t s C t .320 ' OUTLINES OF ANATOMY, acts with its Tongue, as by the piston of an ex- hausting syringe : thus the Papilla is stretched the lactiferous ducts within it are stretched out y and the milk, being forced from the breast by the pressure of the atmosphere, flows into the child’s mouth. The milk of diflerent animals is different. The chemists have turned their attention chiefly to the milk of the cow, which is composed of the following ingredients, Water, Oil. Curd. Extractive. Sugar of milk. Acetic acid. Muriate of Soda. Muriate of Pofash. Sulphate of Potash. Phosphate of Lime. Phosphate of Magnesia. And Phosphate of Iron. Woman’s milk differs from that of the cow: First, in containing less curd ; second, its oil is so intimately combined with its curd, that it does not yield butter j third, it contains rather more sugar of milk. Parmcntier and Deyeux * ascertained that Journal de Phys. XXXVIII. p.422.321 OF THE CAVITY OF THE TIIOIIAX. the quantity of curd in woman’s milk increases in proportion to the time after delivery. Sect. II. b¥ THE CONTENTS OF THE THORAX, The contents of the Thorax may be exposed by dividing the Cartilages connecting the Ribs to the Breast-bone on each side, (by which the Ster- no-Costales muscles are brought into view, ex- tending between the middle of the Breast-bone and the third, fourth, and fifth ribs), and then, by raising the Breast-bone, having previously cut the connexion between it and the Diaphragm. While raising the Sternum, the two layers of Pleura, which form the Mediastinum Anterius, are distinctly seen : Also the triangular cavity be- tween them, opposite to the upper part of the Breast-bone, w'ithin which the Thymus Gland, enveloped in a small quantity of fat and cellular substance, is situated. The cavity of the Thorax being thus exposed, it may be observed to be divided unequally by the Mediastinum Anterius, which inclines to the left side; and hence the right side, or right Pleu- ra, is more capacious than the left. Upon the air being admitted into the Chest, the Lungs, which were in contact with their Pa- rietes, immediately collapse ; and, from having VOL. n. XOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. collapsed in an equable manner, exhibit an exact miniature of the form of the Chest: and that part of the Lungs which rests upon the convex Dia- phragm, is concave. On the left side, between 'the left Lungs, the Capsule of the Heart is placed; which is fixed not only to the Anterior Medias- tinum, but also to the Lungs, and to the middle 'tendinous part of the Diaphragm, by a serous membrane called the Pleura. The containing and contained bowels are con* nccted to each other as follows—The Sternum, Ribs, and Intercostal muscles are lined by the Pleura, which being reflected from the Breast- bone, forms one of the layers of the Anterior Mediastinum ; from which, on the left side of the body, it is extended over the Heart and Lungs ; and from the Lungs it is reflected upon the Ver- tcbrm of the Back to the Ribs. The Pleura of the opposite side follows a simi* lar course ; and a triangular space intervenes be- tween -the layers of the Pleura, where they are reflected from the Lungs to the Dorsal Vertebrce^ forming what has been named the Posterior Me- diastinum. Frdm the preceding description of the course of the Pleura, it.follows, ist. That the Heart and Lungs are so situated, and so connected, that the contractions' of the Heart cannot interfere with the play of the Lungs, nor can the play of the Lungs'.impede the action of the Heart. 2d, That the Lungs are contained in distinctOP THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM, 323 Capsules, which have no communication with each other; hence the Imngs of opposite sides are independent of each other, and cannot press • on each other when we lye on either side. 3t/, That the elasticity of the Mediastinum may contribute to the drawing down the Ribs. 4///, That the contents of the Posterior Medias- tinum cannot be much compressed by the weight of the superincumbent parts. Sect. III. OF THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM. It has been observed in a preceding page, that the more nutritious part of our food, called Chyle,*' * As Mr Brande has published an analysis of the Chyle since the preceding sheet was printed, I have subjoined his I account of that fluid. “ The contents of the thoracic duct are subject to much variation. About four hours after an ! animal has taken food, provided digestion has not been in- terrupted, tlie fluid in the duct may be regarded as pure chyle; it is seen entering by the lacteals in considerable abundance, and is of an uniform whiteness throughout. At longer periods after a meal, the quantity of chyle begins to diminish; the appearance ofdhe fluid in the duct is similar ’ to that of milk and water ; and lastly, where the animal has fasted for twenty-four hours or longer, the thoracic duct " contains a transparent fluid which is pure lymph, “A. The chyle has the following properties. • “ 1. When collected without any admixture of blood, it is an opaque fluid of a perfectly white colour, without smell, and having a slightly salt taste, accompanied by a degree of Ewcetnoss. X 2 LOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. flows through the Thoracic Duct, which joins the' left Subclavian Vein near to its junction with the “ 2. The colour of litmus is not affected by it, nor that of paper stained with turmeric ; but it slowly changes the blue colour of infusion of violets to green. “ 3. Its specific gravity is somewhat' greater than that of water, but less than that of the blood; this, however, is probably liable to much variation, “ 4>. In about ten minutes after it is removed from the duct, it assumes the appearance of a stiff jelly, which in the course of twenty-four hours gradually separates into two' parts, producing a firm and contracted coagulum, surround- ed by a transparent colourless fluid. These spontaneous changes, which I have observed in eVery instance where the chyle was examined at' a proper period after taking food, are very similar to the coagulation of the blood and its sub- sequent separation into serum and crassamentum; they are also retarded and accelerated by similar means. “,B. 1. The coagulafted portion bears a nearer resem- blance to the caseous part of milk than to the fibrine of the blood. “ The fluid found in the thoracic duct of animals that have been kept for twenty-four hours without food, is per- fectly transparent and colourless, and seems to differ in no respect from that which is contained in the lymphatic ves- sels. It may therefore be regarded as pure lymph. “ It has the following properties. * “ 1. It is miscible in every proportion with water. “ 2. It produces no change in vegetable colours. “ 3. It is neither coagulated by heat, nor acids, nor al- cohol, but is generally rendered slightly turbid by the last reagent. “ 4. Wlien evaporated to dryness, the residuum is very * The term lymph lias been applied indiscriminately to the tears, to • the matter of encysted dropsy, and to some other animal fluids. \ ide^ Aikin’i Dictionary of Chemistry and Mineralogy, Art. Lymph.OF THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM. S2o left Internal Jugular Vein, near to the Heart-j from which there must be canals through which ,these fluids flow to every part of the body.' These canals have been called the Arteries ; and by corresponding canals, called Veins, the blood returns to the Heart, or the trunks of the Veins are inserted into the Heart, from which the great Ar- teries takeitheir origin. The Heart may be com- pared to a forcing machine, which assists in propel- ling the blood through the arterial system. Be- fore proceeding to explain the structure and dis- tribution of the Heart, the Arteries, and the Veins, it seems necessary to premise a very brief account of the nature of the blood, a subject which has en- gaged the attention of many philosophers. The human Blood is of a red colour ; has a ’small in quantity, and slightly affects the colour of violet paper, changing it to green. “ 5. By incineration in a platina crucible the residuum is found to contain a minute portion of muriate of soda; but I could not discover in it the slightest indications of iron. “ 6. In -the examination of this fluid, I availed myself with some advantage of those modes of eleetro-chemical analysis, whidi on a former occasion I have described to this Society. “ When the lymph was submitted to the electrical action of a battery, consisting of twenty pairs of four inch plates of copper and zinc, there was an evolution of alkaline matter at the negative surface, and portions of coagulated albumen were separated. As far as the small quantities on which I operated enabled me to ascertain, muriatic acid only was evolved at the positive surface. ”OUTLINES OF ANATOMV. 326 soapy feel, a saline taste, and emits a watery hallr tus ; and its specific gravity is about 1.0527, ac- cording to Haller. When blood has been allowed to remain at rest, it soon coagulates into a solid mass, of the consistence of curd ; which separates itself into two parts, ///e Serwn, and the Crtior. The pro- portions of the Serum and Cruor differ in differ- ent animals ; in common, there are as three parts of Cruor to one of Serum. The coagulation of the blood takes place in the open air, and also within close vessels ; whether the blood be allowed to cool, or be kept at the temperature at which it is when it flows from a vein. The Serum is of a light green colour; and its mean specific gravity is about 1.0287. When heated to the temperature of 156% it coagulates, and has then a greyish colour, and somewhat re- sembles the boiled white of an egg ; and from the coagulated Serum the serosity may be squeezed out. If coagulated Serum be heated in a silver ves- sel, the surface of the silver becomes black : hence Serum contains sulphur ; and, according to Proust, the sulphur is combined with Ammo- nia, in the state of a hydro-sulphuret. The Serum of the Blood also contains an alkali, which was supposed to be Soda. Dr Pearson endeavoured to prove that it is potash ; but the last experiments upon this subject by Dr Mar- CET have proved the alkali to be soda.OF.THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM. S27 looo Grains of Serum of Blood contain, ac- cording to Dr Marcet, * Water ------ 900 Albumen, (dry) - - _ . 86.8 Muco-extractive matter, - - - 4.0 Muriate of Soda, wkh some muriate of Potash, - - - - 6.6 Subcarbonate of Soda . - 1.65 Sulphate of Potash, - - - - 0.35 Phosphates of Lime, Iron, and Magnesia 0.60 . 100c.CO The following Table exhibits the general re- sults of the constituents of the different animal fluids, analysed by Dr Marcet :— Fluids examined. Specific gravity. 'In 1000 Grains of Fluid. Solid contents. .Animal matter. ■ Saline matter. Fluid of Spina Bifida Hydrocephalus - - . Ascites ------ Hydrothorax - - - - Hydrops Pericardii - - Hydrocele ----- Serum of Blood - . - - 1007 1006.7 1015 1012.1 lOld-.S 1024-.3 1029.5 Grains. 11.4* 9.2 33.5 26.G 33 80 100 Grains. 2.2 1.12 25.1 18.8 25.5 71.5 90.8 Grains. 9.2 8.08 8.4 7.8 7.5 8.5 9.2 * Dr Marcet’s experiments seem to prove, tliat ,the potasli discovered by Dr Pearson is in combination with the muriatic and other acids. Medico-Chirurg. Transact, J.ondon, Vol. 2.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 328 Of the Cruor^ 1 he Cruor, or Clot, is of a red colour, and its mean specific gravity is about 1.245 according to JURIN. The Cruor, by being well washed, is in part dissolved, and a part remains upon the scarce. Thus it may be separated into two parts ; into a white, elastic, and solid substance, possessing the properties offibrm ; and the portion held in so- lution, which contains the colouring principle. Many experiments have been made upon the above watery solution, which, according to Bu- QUET, contains albumen and iron. Soda is also contained in the watery solution ; for it gives a green colour to the syrup of violets. Dr Wells f endeavoured to prove, that the colouring principle of the blood was of an a- himal nature. Soon after Fourcroy and Vau- QUELiNf made experiments upon the same sub- ject,' and imputed the colour of blood to a sub- phosphate of iron ; which opinion has very lately been contradicted by Mr Brande, who has ad- opted Dr Wells’s opinion, and who has con- cluded that the colouring substance is of an ani- mal nature; and, like many other animal colour- ing matters, may be employed in dyeing. ' The words are-^“ There can, I think, be little “ doubt that the formation of the colouring matter * Philosoph. Trans, for 1797. f Syst. des Conn. Chjan. Tom. 8.OF .THE PEEICARDIUM AND HEATLT. 329 ^ of the blood is connected with the removal of a f * portion of carbon and hydrogen from that fluid, and that its various tints are dependent upon “ such modiflcations of animal matter, and not, “ as some have assumed, upon the different states “ of oxidizement of the iron which it has been supposed to contain. Sect. IV. OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE PERICARDIUM AND HEART. The Heart is said ro be contained within the Pericardium j though, to speak with accuracy, it is on the outer side of the Pericardium. The Pericardium, which is double, is rough on its outer side; but on its inner side, remarkably smooth, and lubricated by a serous fluid, which has been analysed by Dr Bostocr. * According to that author, ico parts contain Of water - - - 92.0 Albumen - - 5.5 Mucus - - 2.0 Muriate of Soda 0.5 The liquor Pericardii, which is poured out by invisible orifices, prevents the bad effects of fric- tion. The Pericardium is a fibrous membrane like ;he Dura Mater, which covers the Braip. J . ♦ Vid, Nicholson’s Journal, Vol. XIV.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. . S30 T he fibres pass in different directions ; and, in some places, are collected into fasciculi, and which, ijn others, cross each other. The Pericardium, which in figure somewhat re- sembles a cone, is firmly supported in its situation by its external coat, which it receives from the Pleura: hence the Heart is not affected by the play of the Lungs during respiration. The Pericardium also adheres to the middle tendon of the Diaphragm, and also to the muscu- lar part of that muscle, opposite to the fifth Rib. The Pericardium is much more capacious than the Heart, and capable of containing the Heart when all its cavities are distended at the same mo- ment, (which never happens during life) : hence the heart slides readily within the Pericardium, and thereby adapts itself in some measure to the situation of the body. At the upper and anterior part the Pericardium is contracted, and forms a sort of process which surrounds the large vessels which are connected with the Heart; it is reflected upon the Aorta, Pulmonary Artery, and Veins; so that there cannot be said to be apertures in the Pericardium. The Pericardium is also supported by the Me- diastinum Anterius ; hence the Bloodvessels of the Heart cannot be elongated and contracted in their diameter ; and, from the same cause, the Heart cannot press upon the Lungs.OF THE HEART. •ill Of the Heart. The situation of the Heart has a relation to that of the Lungs ; as the functions of the Heart and Lungs have an intimate relation to each o- *ther. The lower surface is somewhat flattened, and rests on the Diaphragm ; the anterior surface is opposed to the Sternum. The right side of the Heart is thin, and longer than the left, and is hence called Margo Acutiis. The left side of the Heart is thicker and obtuse ; and has hence been named Margo Obtusus by Haller. The Lleart is hollow. It is divided into two sides by a partition j and on each side there are two cavities. The volume of the Lleart is different in different subjects, even of the same age. The Lleart is a muscle of a conical form, cover- ed by a reflection of the Pericardium, and by fat; is situated behind the Breast-bone and the Car- tilages of the true Ribs, having its basis turned towards the right side of the Breast-bone, and its point or apex directed obliquely forw'ards, and towards the left side ; so that, upon its point be- ing elevated during the contraction of the Ven- tricles, it is raised between the Lobes which com- pose the Lungs of the left side, and strikes the side between the fifth and sixth Ribs.OUTLINES OI’ANATOMY. 332 The Heart is composed of a number fine fleshy fibres, which follow different directions; some are extended longitudinally from the base to the apex of the Heart; others take an oblique or spiral course ; and a t])ird sort are placed in a transverse direction. The .direction of the muscu- lar fibres of.the Heart has been well described by* Dr Walter .Charleton, in his Inquiries into Human Nature, ♦ by Senac, t and by Wolff. \ * “ The disposition and configuration of the fibres of the Heart is extremely divers from that observed in all others (muscles.) For here the fibres are neither di- rect, nor parallel among tjiemseives; but curve and spi- ral, and in wonderful manner variously interwoven and implicated ; not by a texture like that by which wicker baskets are made, as Vesalius imagined them to be, but disposed with a more admirable artifice. For, immediately under the outward membrane investing the Heart, from the basis of the Heart, and from the circular Tendinose Orifices of it, in which the Fena Cava and the Fena Arteriosa are terminated; as also from the beginnings of the Aorta and Arlcria Femsa^ is propagated a si rat ton or layer of Caruose fibres, which are almost sequidistant among themselves, and tending directly from the basis toward the Cone of the Heart; where, variously inflected and contexed, they are reflected toward the cavities or ventricles within the Heart. Under this slraUon lie other layers of fibres, descending ob- liquely and spirally; which still more and more inclining to- ward the Cone, before they arrive thither, are decussated, and interwoven among themselves, and with other orders of fibres; Fid. Traitc dc la Structure du Cceur. ;J; Fid. Nov. Act. Acad. Scieut. Petropol.OF THE HEART. 335 The human Heart is double ; the anterior part being destined to propel the blood into the Lungs, the posterior through the rest of the body. Hence the terms Pulmonic^ and Systematic Hearts^ have not inaptly been applied to describe the different hearts, or different sides of the same heart. The greater share of the internal surface of each of the cavities of the Heart is unequal, which arises from certain muscles being placed within them, called Columnce Cameo;. The cavities of the Heart are lined by a very thin, but dense, membrane, which prevents the blood from insinuating itself between the muscular fasciculi of the Heart. On each side of the Heart there Is an Auricle and a Ventricle ; and the. corresponding cavities in the opposite side of the Heart are different as to capacity,—as to the thickness of their Pa- rietes, and the colour of their contentsthe blood in the Anterior Heart being of a deep pur- ple colour, and that of the Posterior Heart of a brilliant red colour- fibres ; and thence turned toward the inside of the Heart, they are partly reflected in oblique spires, and as it were fillets, running transverse, toward the basis of the Heart, and partly seem to compose tha internal columns, to which the little chords of the three-j>ointcd and tlie mitral valves are fastened; while other some of them, being transversely woven together, fornulie Sinus of the right Ventricle." Charleton’s Inquiries into Human Nature, p. 39. London 1C80.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. The Ventricles constitute the most essential part of the Heart ; they may be compared to a forcing machine, and therefore merit the most particular mention ; the other cavities, called Au- rides, being merely reservoirs, in which the blood is collected, during the contraction of the Ven- tiide. OJ' the Vuhnonk, or Anterior Part of the Heart. The Anterior or Pulmonary Ventricle is some- what triangular in form; very unequal internally, owing to the Columna? Carneae, the greater num- ber of which adhere to the inner surface of the Heart, and are disposed in a longitudinal direction in respect to the Heart. These Columnoe Carneae render the Heart stronger, and also assist In preventing the coagu- lation of the blood. The parts which communicate with the Ven- tricle are, the Anterior Auricle, and the artery through which the blood flows to the Lungs, call- ed Pulmonary. The Auricle is situated on the right, and rather towards the back part* of the Heart; and upon laying it fully open, the projecting anterior flat- tened and notched part, which bears but a distant resemblance to the ear of a dog, is found to re- semble the internal surface of the Ventricle; and the Columnse Carnex being disposed somewhatOP THE ANTERIOR VENTRICLE, &C. 333 like the teeth of a comb, have hence been named Musculi Pectinati of the Auricle. ' t The greater share of the Auricle is smooth, and has been named the Sinus, which seems to be the continuation of the large veins through which the blood flows into the Auricle, called Vena: Cavae. The muscular flesh of the Auricle is much thinner than that of the Ventricle, as the Auricle, by its contraction, merely propels the blood into the'Ventricle. In the quadruped, there is a distinct projection of that part of the Auricle, which intervenes be- tween the entrance of the Vena Cava Superior, and Vena Cava Inferior : This has been named by Lower, Tuberculum j and the same name has been transferred to the corresponding portion of the human Auricle. The partition between the Auricles is semi- transparent; and in the adult, towards its middle, an oval-shaped depression has been described, but it is rather of a circular form. There is sometimes a small aperture in the up- per part of this depression, even in the adult; though generally there is no such aperture. This depression or fossa is bounded by a portion of muscle, which at its upper part has thick edges, and which has been described by Viessens under the name of Isthmus. The Venae Cav^E and also the Coronary Vein discharge their blood into the Anterior Auricle ;335 OUTLINES OF ANATOmV. and over the termination of that vein there is a small valve of a crescentic shape. There is an imperfect valve between the Vena Cava Inferior, and the Auricle, which is placed on the left side of the mouth of the Vena Cava Inferior, and which covers one half of the mouth of that vein. This membrane is generally perforated ; and its convex edge is fixed to the union of the Vena Cava and Auricle. * Around the passage of communication, between the Auricle and Ventricle, a membrane, or, as some have called it, tendon, is placed. There is a valve between the Auricle and Ven- tricle. 1 This valve consists of a circular fold of thin membrane, which is divided at its infetior part into several portions, three of which are more considerable than the others, and are connected by a number of threads of a determinate length, which are fixed to the Columnae Carneas of the Ventricle* When the blood regurgitates, the different parts of the valve are thrust upwards, and form a com- plete barrier to the reflux of the blood ; for this valve is so constructed, as to clap close to the side of the cavity when the stream of blood flows from the Auricle into the Ventricle; but it shuts up • This Valve is admirably represented by Scarpa, in Plate V. of his Views of the Nerves of the Neck and Thorax,^S7 OF pulmonary ARTERY. the passage. When the Ventricle contracts, the three parts of the valve are raised up, and obstruct the passage. Of the Pulmonary Artery. This large artery takes its rise from the Ante- rior Ventricle, and its origin is marked by a cal- lous ring ; it passes upwards behind the Breast- bone, and divides into two great branches, through which the blood flows into the right and left Lungs. To oppose the stream of blood from flowing backwards into the Ventricle, the internal coat ol the artery is reflected, and forms three valves, somewhat of a semilunar figure, which yield be- fore the stream of blood which flows from the Ventricle j but which, when it is refluent, are raised ; and, with the aid of a small hard and red- coloured body, called the Corpmculum Arantu, completely obstruct the artery. .'The Pulmonary Artery opposite to the valves is somewhat enlarged, forming what anatomists have named Sinuses, of which there are three. . The opposite sides of the Heart are separated ffom each other by a Septum, which is thicker than the flesh of the Posterior Ventricle, in which the muscular fibres of both Ventricles ^re inter- mixed ; and, upon the Septum, there are a num- ber of Columnte Carneae. ■ y '*'01,. II.338 OUTLINES OT ANATOMY. Of the Posteriort or Systematic Heart. The blood which was circulated through the Lungs flows by the medium of the four Pulmon- ary Veins into the posterior part of the Heart. The posterior Heart is very similar to the an- terior in its structure. There are four veins which communicate with the Auricle, which are rather smaller than the right; and the four Pulmonary Veins open into the upper and back part of the Auricle. From the posterior Ventricle the large artery < of the body issues, called Aorta ; the connexion of which with the Ventricle has been accurately described by Baron Haller. “ Caro Cordis in circuli perfect! formam ter- minator, et fibrce transversas Cordis, partim inter valvulas arteriosas per lineae longitudinem produ- cuntur, et aliquanto plus, partim in partem arte- riae, quae sinum valvulosum perfecit, pariter sur- sum pergunt, fere per sesquilineam, et accurate transversae cum alba pariter membrana arteriae connectuntur, cellulosae brevis telae ope, ut nul- la cordis fibram arteriam cominuetur. ** * The auricular part of the posterior Auricle is longer, but not so broad as that of the anterior Auricle. The valve between the Auricle and Ventricle is nearly similar to that of the anterior side of the * Halleri Element. Pbysioh lib. iv.- 1:BLOODVESSELS Of TME HEART. SiiB Heart; but it is composed of two principal parts , only,.and has in shape been compared to a bishop’s mitre; and hence called Valvula MItralis. The flesh of the posterior Ventricle is much thicker than that of the anterior Ventricle; and the cavity of the Ventricle is in shape somewhat like an egg, and rather smaller than that of the anterior Ventricle. Bloodvessels of the Heart. The Heart is supplied with blood by the Coro- nary Arteries, which are sent off from the Aorta immediately behind its valves. The veins of the Heart unite, and form the Coronary Veins, which open into the anterior Auricle. It has been affirmed, that both the smaller ar- teries, and also the veins, open upon the surface of the Auricles, and also upon the surface of the Ventricles. Thebesius wrote expressly on this subject: and hence, these apertures have been* called the Foramina Thebesii. I have seen a very penetrating liquor thrown with force into the Coronary Artery, and yet none of the liquor got into the cavities of the Heart. Nerves Of the Hecn't. The Nerves of the Heart are derived from the eighth pair, and Sympathetic Nerves, ' y 2OUTLINES OF ANAT03IF, •310 • ' • { 'V Sect. V. I * GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE DISPOSI- TION OF THE ARTERIES. By the Arteries, blood flows to every part of the body ; and by the Veins it flows backwards ) and the Heart is the machine which assists in propel- ing the blood, and which is placed where the Ar- teries and Veins meet, in order to restore to the blood the momentum it had lost during the cir- culatioh. The blood, in passing outwards, flows from wider into narrower tubes ; and in returning, from narrower into wider vessels. The Arteries are placed on the inner sides of membranes, as far as possible out of danger. They pass within canals of the bones, as in the lower Jaw, or in grooves in the Ribs ; and take advantage of the processes of the bones. They are plaiced on the bending sides of the Joints, o- therwise they would be overstretched, and the flow of blood through them would be impeded. The larger Arteries are seated much deeper than \he Veins ; The cutaneous branches of these are small and short; whereas many of the trunks of the veins are seated under the skin, and many of their smaller branches are deep seated. \ The Arteries divide into numerous branches, somewhat like a tree j and are sent off from theirGENERA^, DESCRIPTION OF THE ARTERIES. 341 trunks at difterent angles; generally at an acute angle, and soraetiraes at a right or an obtuse an- gle; and at the place of the division, a projec- tion may be observed on the inside of the artery, formed by the internal coat. In general, the Arteries take the shortest road : thus less force is required. There are however some exceptions to the above observation; as in the case of the Arteries which lead to the Brain. The smaller branches of the Arteries are more exposed, and more convoluted in their course, than the larger branches, and more especially those distributed upon organs which undergo a rapid alteration as to their size, as those of the Lips, Stomach and Uterus; and in other cases, this convoluted course is probably subservient to se- cretion. Thus, the Spermatic Artery follows a long and tortuous course before it reaches the bo- dy of the Testicle ; and more especially that of quadrupeds. The arterial system has generally been compared to a cone, of which the apex is at the heart. The larger trunks of the Arteries are included in a considerable quantity of cellular substance j as in the Axilla, the Groin, &c. The branches from these trunks approach near- er to the surface of the body ; and these branches are subdivided into a number of smaller branches, and are more tortuous in their course. It is evident, that the sum of the branches of an Artery, exceeds in diameter the trunks fromOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. * yid. Halleiu Element. Phys. lib. 2. sect. I. Si2 which they arise ; which has been differently stat- ed by Haller, * Senac, &c. The Arteries in their course are frequently unit- ed, or they form repeated anastomoses. Two large Arteries meet at an acute angle, and form a single trunk; or the arteries unite, and form arches, and the branches are given off from the convexity of the arch. Some Arteries, as the anterior Arteries of the Brain, are united by a transverse arch. i Of Varieties in the Arterial System, • I I T t The Arteries of the body gradually increase with the bulk of the body ; and when the size of the part varies, so does that of the Artery pro- per to it. These varieties are temporary, or permanent. Xhe Gravid Uterus affords an example of the former. As that organ increases in bulk, its Ar- teries are much enlarged ; but, after delivery, the bulk of the organ, and also that of its Arteries, are much diminished. In the same manner, the Arteries in the vicinity of a Tumour acquire an unnatural size ; but upon the Tumour being re- moved, they shrink ; but if that Tumour cannot be removed, the increase in the size of the vessel is permanent. "COMPAHATIVE VASCULARITY. S48 When an Artery attains an unnatural bulk, it becomes tortuous, as it is fixed down at both ends. Comparative Vascularity, There are many more Bloodvessels proper to the several organs of a young animal, than to those of an old one. It is a general law, that during the formation of a part, it is more amply supplied with Bloodves- sels than after it has been formed. All parts which are active, are best supplied with Blood. Thus, the Bones, Tendons, and Ligaments receive but a scanty supply of blood. A large quantity of blood is sent to the Mus- cles, Glands, and organs of sense. In some cases, blood is suddenly determined to a part, in order to increase its sensibility. Of the Terminations of the Ai'teties. The Arteries terminate in^different ways. Most of the branches of the Arteries, whether conveying the red or the colourless part of the blood, terminate directly in those Veins which convey the red part of the blood. Many branches of the Arteries terminate upon Glands; others in exhaling Arteries, which lu-344- . OUTLINES or ANATOMY. brlcate the surfaces of the Serous Membranes that line the Cranium, the Thorax, and Abdo>. men ; besides which, there are numerous excern- ing Arteries upon the surface of the Skin, and internal surface of the Lungs. Lastly, Some of the branches of the Arteries terminate in organs of a cellular structure, as the Penis and Clitoris. In short, by the Capillary System many of the most important functions of the body are perform- ed, as Nutrition, Secretion, Exhalation. Before concluding this Section, it may not be improper to add, that irregularities in the origin and distribution of some of the branches of the Arteries are by no means uncommon. • i • » Of the Veins, The smaller branches of the Arteries are con- tinuous w'ith the Veins. < , The capacity, and also the number of the Veins, surpasses that of the Arteries. But there are some exceptions to this rule : Thus, the Re- nal, Bronchial, and some other Veins, are smaller than the corresponding Arteries, The Veins of different sizes unite, and the an- gles formed by their union are different; most frequently they are acute, but at other times ob- tuse.V 34<3 OF THj: VEINS. The course of the Veins is not similar to that of the Arteries. There are many ot the larger trunks of the Veins which lye under the skin ; whereas the larger branches of the Arteries arc deep seated. The branches of the Veins communicate with each other more freely and more frequently than the branches of the Arteries ; they communicate by a straight canal, or by arches; or the commu-i liications are so numerous as to form a plexus. * The communications between the branches of the Veins are most numerous, because the course of the blood in these is more apt to be interrupted by violent motion, by the efl'ect of gravitation dur- ing our erect posture, or by external and internal pressure. The Veins are provided with Valves, by which the blood flows readily in one direction only. The Valves are formed by a reflexion of the innermost coat of the Vein ; are of the figure of a parabola ; are concave towards the Heart; and are generally disposed in pairs : and these Valve^ are perfectly similar to each other. These Valves are more numerous in some than in other Veins. A Single Valves are sometimes found in the Veins of the Hands and Feet. Valves are found in those Veins particularly which are placed perpendicularly ; as in those of the Limbs ; and where the pressure occasioned by the contraction of the superincumbent muscles might have rendered the blood refluent.346 OUTLINES or ANATOMY. Valves are also found in the Venae Azygos and Spermatic Veins. The blood gets between the Valves and the sides of the Veins, by which the Veins are ex- panded, which gives the Vein an irregular figure. The last circumstance respecting the Veins, which merits particular mention, is, that the Veins yield more readily ; are much more dilatable in the transverse direction, than the Arteries; but they can be extended but little in the longitudi- nal direction. The Coats of the Veins are also much stronger than the Arteries, as has been proved by the ex- periments of Sir Clifton Wintringham. Of the Coats of the A rteries and Veins. The Arteries and Veins are connected to the neighbouring parts by loose cellular substance, by which they are more readily adapted to the move- ments of our Limb, and readily change their place when they are dilated, and when the pulse is felt. The Coats of the Arteries are whiter, and con- siderably thicker, than those of the Veins; in some cases the Coats of the Arteries are thrice the thickness of those of the Veins. The smaller Arteries are proportionally stronger than the larger ; as has been ascertained by fixing weights to them. The Arteries are less capacious, less numerous, but much more elastic than the Veins: henceOF THE COATS OF THE ARTERIES AND VEINS. S4-7 their sides do not collapse even when empty; hence an artery, when divided, presents a circular or oval mouth. In consequence of the elasticity of an Artery, it yields, when the blood has been driven into it by the contraction of the Heart; and by the same means the Artery regains its former situation. The Arteries and Veins are provided with an external cellular coat, composed of very fine threads, which connects it to the neighbouring parts ; and which internally is condensed into a dense white layer, which covers even the more minute branches of the Arteries, with the excep- tion of the Umbilical Arteries, and those within the Head. In this Coat the elasticity of the Arteries chiefly resides. The Nerves, and Vasa Vasorum, or the small Bloodvessels proper to the coats of the Artery, pass along this Coat. The second Coat of the Artery is composed of circular muscular fibres ; and the colour of these fibres varies somewhat in the different Arteries ; being deeper in the Arteries of middle size, than in the trunk of the Aorta. The third Coat of the Arteries is very thin, though not equally so in every part j being thin- nest in the left Ventricle. It is transparent, and remarkably smooth. Within the Thorax and Abdomen the Arteries3^5 . , OUTLXN{;S ot ANATOMY. receive an additional coat from the Pleura and Peritonaeum. The Vasa Vasorum which are proper to the Coats of the Arteries and Veins, do not come directly from the trunk of the Artery itself, but from the neighbouring Arteries. There are many Lymphatic Vessels which are proper to the Coats of the Arteries, otherwise their cavity could not be extended in proportion to the bulk of the body. There are also Nerves which are proper to the Coats of the Bloodvessels. The Nerves have a great influence on the Ar- teries ; they preserve their irritability, and con- sequently promote the circulation of the blood in the extreme branches, and maintain the functions of secretion. • Every part of the body is not supplied with the same number of Arteries and Nerves. The different organs are more or less sensible ; which seems to depend upon the number and size of the Nerves proper, to these. The Brain, and organs of sense, are amply sup- plied with Arteries ; and in many instances from different sources. The Arterial and Nervous Systems have a great degree of sympathy with each other, and fit each other for their proper functions. The mind, in most eases, has no influence upon the state of the circulation of the Blood; but when the Nervous System has been excited, the Blood circulates more quickly than usual.OF THE COATS OF THE ARTERIES AND VEINS. 3i9 ' When the action of the Arteries is increased; the Nerves are also affected ; thus, by passions of the mind, palpitation is induced. Voluptuous ideas determine the blood to the penis, and produce erection : Anger impels the blood into the smaller Arteries, and produces red- ness of the face. Excessive grief or joy promotes the flow of tears, and impels the blood into the finer vessels of the skin. An unusual flow of blood to a part increases Its sensibility ; as in an inflamed eye, or when the penis or clitoris are erected. Inflammation renders the sense of touch more acute. . Grief impedes digestion, and diminishes the secretion of the Gastric Juice : On the other hand, a loaded Stomach blunts sensibility, and produces sleep. Fear also augments the secretion of the mucus of the Intestines, and causes Diarrhoea. The influence of the Nerves upon the Arteries is evident. By throwing a ligature upon a Nerve, the quantity of the fluid secreted by the gland is diminished. . Nuck found, that the division of the Nerves leading to the Salivary Glands diminished the u- sual quantity of Saliva. An experiment which my Father performed, and of which an account is published in tfie Edin- burgh Philosophical and Literary Essays, adds anOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 35Q additional illustration of the sympathy which ex- ists betwixt the Arteries and Nerves. He found that, upon pouring a solution of o- pium under the skin of the thigh and leg of a living frog, not only the leg itself was very soon affected, but also the most distant organs of the body, by a sympathy of the Nerves; but when he cut out the Heart, or tied up or cut across the Bloodvessels of the Thigh, the distant parts of the body were not affected ; hence the cutting out the Heart, and throwing ligatures upon the Arteries, prevented the Nerves from propagating their in- fluence by sympathy; and also proves the sympa- thy between the Arterial and Nervous Systems. Lastly, the nervous action is not only influen- ced by the quantity, but also by the quality of the blood. Sect. VI. OBSERVATIONS ON THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. I shall subjoin, in the form of induction from the preceding account of the Structure of the Heart, Arteries and Veins, a few very general observations respecting the Circulation of the Blood. I. The blood which flows from the left side of the Heart is distributed by the arteries to almost every part of the body, and returns to the HeartON THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. 351 by means of the veins which terminate on the right side of that organ. 2. It is obvious that the structure of the Heart has a reference to the lungs; it is a double organ; There are two hearts, one proper to the lungs, another proper to the rest of the body ; or there is a particular circulation through the lungs, and a general circulation through the rest of the body. 3. The Heart, Arteries and Veins are hollow muscles, and by contracting expel the included blood j and they are muscles of considerable strength, as has been proved by Sir Clifton WiNTRINGHAM. 4. The contraction of the Heart is not excited by the will, that organ being an involuntary muscle. Nor does it depend upon the brain or nerves : For the Heart continues to contract af- ter the head has been removed, * and also after * My Father long ago remarked, in his book upon the Ner- vous System, that the heart of a frog continues to act for some time when cut out of the body ; and also that a frog continues to live, and even to move its limbs for two days after it has been decapitated. Mr Cruickshanks * observed, that if an animal was pith- ed, by dividing the spinal marrow in the upper part of the neck, respiration ceased; but the heart continued to act, circulating dark coloured blood; and from ten to fifteen minutes elapsed before tlie circulation ceased. Mr Bichat \ and Mr Brodie J have also remarked, that • London PhiL Trans, for 1795. Vid. his Boole Sur la Vie et Sur la Mort; also his Anat, GencraL i Vid. London Phil Trans, for 1810,OUTLINES OF ANATOMV.’ S52 the nerves which lead to it have been divided; The Heart contracts in consequence of the pre- sence of the blood, as has been proved by Baron Haller : The action of the Heart is also inti- mately connected with the change which the blood undergoes during its passage through the lungs; in proof of which, when the contractions of the Heart become languid, or have ceased, they may frequently be renovated by inflating the lungs. . 5. The disposition of the muscular fibres of 0 the brain is not directly necessary to the action of the heart, and that when the functions of the brain arc destroyed, the circulation ceases only in consequence of the suspension of respiration; and the latter gentleman also found, that if res- piration was produced artificially, the heart continued to act {’or a still longer period after the removal of the brain. Mr Brodie has drawn the following conclusions from his experiments. ‘ 1. The influence of the brain is not directly necessary to the action of the heart. ‘ 2. When the brain is injured or removed, the action of the heart ceases, only because respiration is under its in- fluence ; and if, under these circumstances, respiration is ar-e tificially produced, the circulation will still continue. ‘ 3. AVhen the influence of the brain is cut olT, the secre- tion of urine appears to cease, and no heat is generated; notwithstanding the functions of respiration, and the circu- lation of the blood continue to be performed, and the usual changes in the appearance ot the blood are produced in the^ lungs. - * 4. When the air respired is colder than the natural tem- perature of the animal, tlie effect of respiration is not to ge- nerate, but to diniinish aniiiud heat. ’ Vtd. Med. & Phys. Jour. Vol. XX\1. p. 67. -• if '•OP THE CIRCULATION OF 'rtlE BLOOD. 333 the Heart is very peculiar ; and by their contrac- tion, the included blood is expelled. The Heart (as Harvey calls it), ihtfundamen- twm vitce^ princeps omnium^ is in the alternate state of contraction (or systole), and dilatation (or dias- tole), from the moment of our existence till the moment of death. 6. During the contraction of the Heart, it starts forwards, describes a portion of a circle, and strikes the side; which is to be imputed to the .filling of the auricles placed at the base of the Heart, and to the sudden dilatation of the arch of the aorta ; the anterior part of which is move- able, but the posterior part is fixed down. Daring this contraction, the apex approaches its base ; the sides of the ventricles are drawn towards the Septum Cordis, which is more fixed ; and, from the corresponding cavities being filled at the same time, and being united by a common Septum, they must act at the same time. The Auricles and Ventricles are successively contracted and dilated. When, by the contraction of the Auricles, the blood which they have received by the Venae Cavae and Pulmonary Veins is expelled, the Ventricles are relaxed, and ready to receive the blood ; and when the Ventricles contract, and expel their con- tents into the Pulmonary Artery and Aorta, the Auricles are relaxed. VOL. II. ZOCTLIKES OF ANATOMV. 35* 7. In consequence of the contraction of the ventricles of the Heart, the blood is thrown with considerable force into the Pulmonary Artery and Aorta, and their ramifications ; while the arteries, being exposed to the impulse of the blood from the ventricles, are provided with coats of consi- derable strength ; which, being muscular, assist the Heart in propelling the blood ; adapt them- selves to the quantity of blood ; and, in the case of bleeding, by their contraction stop the flow of blood. 8. That there is a muscular contractile power proper to the arteries, is evident from various cir- cumstances. A. From the effects of local stimuli, which excite an increased action of the arteries. B. From a haemorrhagy being stopped by the contraction of the coats of the artery. C. From gangrene of the feet succeeding the ossification of the coats of the femoral artery. D. From the circulation being continued when the Heart is wanting. E. From the effects of palsy upon the Arteries. 9. When the Fleart contracts, the Arteries are at that instant dilated ; and in this state, we per- ceive their pulsatory motion. That the pulse is owing to the dilatation of the coats of the artery, may be made obvious (Bichat states) by trans- fusing the blood from an artery of a living ani- mal into the Humeral Artery of a dead body, ■which thereby acquires pulsation.OF THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. S36 That the pulse is not owing to the contraction of the Coats of the Artery, has been fully proved by Vesalius’s Experiments. * lo. The arteries divide, like a tree, into va- rious branches, most of which are sent off at acute angles; and these branches are subdivided into still smaller branches. If the laws of hydraulics are applicable to the arterial system, the blood, in consequence of its viscidity, of friction, of the angles and anasto- moses of the arteries, of mechanical pressure, and the greater area of the branches than of the parent trunk, should flow much more slowly in the small- er than in the larger trunks of the arteries. The above holds true with regard'to water cgn- talned in metalline tubes ; but perhaps not with regard to blood circulating through the muscular and elastic blood-vessels of a living animal: An opinion which gains weight from the experiments of Haller f and Spallanzani ; | who have ^ stated, that they remarked the blood issuing as ♦ Fid. Vesal. de Corp. Human. Fabric. Lib. VII. cap. xix. p. 569. Lugdun. Batav. 1725. f Fid. Element. Pliys. Lib. 6. sect. 30. X Va. his Experiments on the Circulation of the Blood. * I did not find, ’ he observes, ‘ thi^.t tlie blood, in passing * out of the middle-sized arteries into their branches, cx- ‘ perienced the least retardation from any difference in the ^ capacity of the vessels, or tlie numerous angles they ■* formed with one another; nor did the mode of circula- ’ tion, wiiethcr languid or strong, oscillatory or intermife- Z 2OUTLINES OF anatomy. 3.3« rapidly from the smaller as from the larger ar- teries. 11. The blood, which is distributed by the branches of the Arteries, is brought back again by the Veins, which are continued from the small- er branches of the arteries, as may be seen in the pellucid parts of animals ; and, by throwing a penetrating liquor into an artery, it flows into the veins. I’he smaller veins uniting, form the larger ; wliilst the larger, by their union, form the Vena Cava Superior and Inferior. The former brings back the blood from the upper, the latter from the under parts of the body. 12. The return of the blood through the veins to the Heart is promoted by the muscular power of the vessels themselves ; the. action of the ad- joining muscles, and pulsation of neighbouring arteries ; and perhaps also by the column of blood in the veins, which, being always full, the eflect of the stream of blood a tei'go, must be consider- able in pushing on the blood. The reflux of the blood through the veins is prevented by the Valves within them. 13. The circulation of the Blood is proved by - the structure of the Heart, Arteries, and Veins; and by Ligatures. There are various causes which determine the * tent, appear to be at all affected by the multiplicity of * natural and artificial curvatures, or the flexures and con- ‘ volutions made by the different ramifications. ’,1 OF THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. 357 ■ blood to follow a particular course. By means of the contraction of the Auricles, the blood flows into the Ventricles, from which it is propelled into the two great Arteries ; and its reflux is pre- vented by the Valves placed between the Auricles and Ventricles, and at the mouths of the Pulmo- nary Artery and Aorta. The different effects of pressure upon an Artery and Vein afford incontrovertible evidence of the circulation of the blood. A ligature thrown around the Humeral Artery, prevents the flow of Blood to the fingers,' and causes also a swelling of the artery between the ligature and the Heart.v There is at the same time a swelling of the Veins between the ligature and the Fingers ; the return of the Blood towards the Heart being impeded. The circulation of the Blood is visible by the aid of the microscope; it may be imitated by an injection thrown into the arteries ; and it is also proved by the loss of Blood an animal sustains by opening an artery. 14. One of the most important uses of the cir- culation is the distribution of nourishment to every part of the body.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 358 * I CHAPTER II. OF ASSIMILATION AND NUTRITION; In the preceding chapter, It has been observed, that one great purpose of the circulation of the Blood, is the nutrition of the body. During the performance of the several functions of the animal economy, there is a constant dissi- pation of the parts which enter into the composw tion of the body. Every part of the human frame is In a state of constant change. The fluids are dissipated and the solids are abraded and absorbed, or much in-i ]ured, by the various accidents to which, during the progress of life, we are exposed. There must be some means for repairing the waste that is continually going on, and for the renovation of the various organs of the body when destroyed. There is a necessity not only for a renewal of the fluids, but also of the solids. The process by which the different parts of the body are renovated, has been called The Process of Assimilation, the nature of which process is very imperfectly understood.OF ASSIMILATION AND NUTRITION. 3S9 I shall therefore content myself by stating a few facts relative to this important subject. 1. During infancy and youth, as the supply of nourishment exceeds the waste, the bulk of the body increases; but during manhood, the supply only equals the waste, whilst in old age the waste exceeds the supply ; many of the smaller vessels become impervious, the fluids bear a less propor- tion to the solids, and the body shrinks and de- cays. 2. Every organ of Assimilation or Secretion produces upon the Blood a specific change. Thus the Liver forms the Bile, the Stomach the Gastric Juice, and the Testes the Semen, &c. 3. Substances which cannot be acted upon by the organs of Assimilation, or which have a strong chemical attraction for the fluids prepared by the organs of Assimilation, continue, in some cases, to show their specific qualities. Thus, the urine is tainted when asparagus, onions, or turpentine, have been taken into the'Stomach ; or, thus, mad- der is combined with the phosphat of lime of the bones, to which it communicates a red colour. 4. But as changes similar to those produced by the organs of Assiiiillation, do not take place out of the body, the process of Assimilation cannot be compared to a chemical process, as it is in part the result of the action of the living principle. Lastly. The process of Assimilation goes on for a certain time only, as the several organs of the body become, in process of time, incapable of360 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. performing those functions which are necessary to the continuance of life. CHAPTER III. OF SECRETION. -L HE Secretions of all kinds are formed from the* Blood, though the manner of their formation is still unknown. The organized apparatus from which many of the secreted fluids are derived, has been called a Glandj or Glandular Boxed, The Glands are largely supplied with blood; which is converted into various fluids, some of which are retained withiri* the body, for the per- formance of some useful purpose ; others are dis- charged from it. Some of the Glands are placed near the surface of the body ; as those under the skin, the Mam- mae, Testes, the Salivary and Lachrymal Glands. Other Glands, such as the Liver, Pancreas, and Kidneys, are deep-seated. Some Glands are single, as the Liver and Pan- creas ; others are disposed in pairs, as the Kid- neys, Lachrymal Glands, &c.36l OF SECRETION. Some Glands are composed of distinct portions or Lobes, united by loose cellular Membrane; which are again subdivided into smaller Lobes, and these last into still smaller Lobules or Acini; and these Acini are visible, in many instances, to the naked eye; but, in other cases, only by the aid of the Microscope. There is a large supply of blood sent to the Glands ; and in some instances, as in the Kidney, the Artery bears a large proportion to the bulk of the Gland. The Arteries proper to the Glands are, in ma- ny cases, found between the lobules of the Gland, and enveloped by a considerable quantity of cel- lular substance. The smaller branches, however, are differently arranged in the different Glands. Tw^o very different opinions have been enter- tained respecting the structure of Glands. Ac- cording to Malpighi, * an Artery which has en- tered a Gland, ramifies very minutely through its substance, and ultimately terminates in a hollow cavity or follicle, from which the secreted fluid flows out by the excretoiy ducts of the Gland. Ruysch I has endeavoured, by his minute in- jections of the Blood-vessels of Glands, to over- turn the above opinion; and, according to that distinguished anatomist, the Glands are made up * Vid. his Exercit. de Structura Viscerum. t Vid. his Letters to Boeriiaavk on the Structure of Glands.362 OUTLtNftS OP ANAT03IT. of a congeries of Bloodvessels, with which the excretory ducts are continuous. It still remains to be determined, whether ei- ther of the above opinions relative to the struc- ture of Glands, be correct, and whether all Glands have the same structure. I am disposed, from an accurate examination of the various preparations of glands made by my Father, to conclude, that Glands have not a similar struc- ture. As none of the secreted fluids are found to ex- ist in the blood, the term Secretion implies, not merely a filtering, but the formation of an entire new fluid. The secreted fluids are very different from each other in taste, smell, colour, and consistency. Some are watery, others gelatinous, others oily ; and they have therefore been arranged into clas- ses, according to their chemical qualities, by Fourcroy and other chemists. I'he different secreted fluids pass through the Excretory Ducts ; the size of which is very vari- ous. The ducts of some Glands open separately, as those of the Mammae, upon the surface of the Papilla of that organ ; the ducts of other Glands', as those of the Tonsils, pour their contents into a blind sac ; but, in other instances, all the excre- tory ducts are united into one large tube; and in the case of the liver and urinary organs, that large tube passes into a receptacle, within which the se- creted fluid is retained for a lime, and probably363 or SECRETION. undergoes some change, which renders it more fit for its peculiar office ; or some part is reab- sorbed before its expulsion. It may be farther observed, that the contents of the different Glands are discharged, either up->- on the surface of the body, or into cavities, by means of ducts or tubes, all of which, as well as the cavities in which they are found, are lined by a mucous membrane. Authors upon the Stmcture of the Hearty Arteries and Veins. ^Vid. Opera Galeni, G. Hauvei Exercitat. Anat. de Motu Cordis et San-» guinis. Francofvrti 1628. Dr Monro PriiMUS on the Structure of the Arteries, Quarto Edit, of his Works. Dr D. Monro’s Paper on Aneurism. Edin. Med. and Physical Essays, Vol. III. Pierre Senac, Traite de la Structure du Cceur, de son Action, et des Maladies. Paris lY'iy. Rob. Perceval, Tcntamcn Physiologicum de Corde. Edinburg! 1780. 8vo. C. F. Wolff in Novis Actis Academia? Scientiarum Petropolitana? ad Annum usque 1787. Halleri Iconum Anatomicarum Fasciculi octo. Go- cttingae ab Anno 174-3 ad 1756, folio. Petrus Camper, Demonstrationuin Anatomico-pa- thologicarum Liber primus. Amstelod. 1760, fol.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. set J. C. Walter, Observationes Anatomic®. Berolini 1775, folio. Walteri Epistola de Venis Oculi. Berolini 1778. 4lo. Verschiur G. Dissert. Med. Inaug. De Arter. ct Veil. Vi irritabili. Groning. 17G6'. ScARPAE Tab. Neurolog. ad illust. Hist. Anat. Car- cliac. Nervor. Ticini 1794. Monro’s Description of a Human Male Monster. Transact, of the Royal Soc. of Edinb. Vol. III. Scarpa, in bis Treatise on Aneurism, has published a very full Account of the Arteries of the Extremities of the Body. Vid. Scarpa on Aneurism, translated by WrSHART. Edin. 1808. J. Hunter on the Blood. Spallanzani on the Circulation of the Blood. Adolph. Murray, Descriptio Arteriarum Corporis Ilumani in Tabulas redact. Upsal. 1798. Barclay’s Description of the Arteries of the Hu- pian Body.PART X.• V, 'V.«> ■ t I ^ ■ *y\ 'L*' »'*.•* m; T ,*• ^ ’•* .^, • ’r. trf ... : ‘ 1.1 . •'^- .' ,iio- -V ■ ^ -m '. N ’•*'. ■■?’ V ^• .• 1'' W*!* b44Jn>|»- ' 9-' .An 1# .•54.-"' yv* 4t( ^ * Ml. .■^ tpL if -fcA. . .‘ -'.'^tt i..'* i \» 'T ^ i.- ^ -L- ‘ ■ ,». V . :**.. "WW' ' ... .ci; --■■ 1-; ■ ' a V.' . ' .v" ^ii , ' ‘ kT * ; ', 5«-.t ♦■ ■ ' ■ ■ . .. > r • ..V ' ^ s >y * ' \OnCANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. S67 CHAPTER I. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Sect. I. The Heart, Arteries and Veins, from their structure, situation, and functions, are much ex- posed to Organic derangements. The most frequent organic derangement of the Vascular System, is Ossification. It occurs ge- nerally between the muscular and internal Coats, or on the inner surface of this last; and, in its incipient state, appears in the form of small points, or of thin bony shells. Such Ossifications more frequently occur in the Semilunar Valves, at the beginning of the Aorta, or on the Mitral Valve at the mouth of the Au- ricle, and are frequently attended with a dilata- tion of the diseased Artery, and with an enlarge- ment, not only in the capacity of the left Ventri- cle, but of the substance and thickness of its mus- cular fibres.OUTLINES OF ANATOMV. 3GS Sect II. OF ANEURISM OF THE ARTERIES. ^ By Aneurism, is understood a diseased enlarge- ment of a portion of an Artery, of which there are the following varieties. In the first, the cir- cumference of the Artery is uniformly enlarged, constituting a round, circumscribed, pulsating Tu- mour, such as is represented in Plate XXXIII., and which forms what has been called the Circum- scribed True Aneurism. In some cases of this description, the Tumour is of an oblong figure, not distinctly circum- scribed ; and hence has been called The Diffused True Aneurism. In the second kind of Aneurism, a Sac is found attached to the side of the Artery, with which it communicates by a narrow neck. This kind of Aneurism has been particularly described by Senertus and Scarpa. The main trunk of the Artery, to which the Aneurism is attached, sometimes preser\es its natural size; but, on other occasions, is considerably expand- ed, as in Plate XXXIV. All Aneurisms, according to Scarpa, are oc- casioned by a solution of continuity, or rupture of the proper coats of an Artery, which is occa- sioned by a wound, a steatomatous, or earthy de- generation, a corroding ulcer, a rupture of the pro-369 OF ANEURISM OF THE ARTERIES. per Coats of an i\rtery, I mean the Internal or Muscular, without the concurrence of a preterna- tural dilatation of these Coats. Hence the blood is effused into the neighbouring cellular substance, which is condensed into a Cyst. ' My Grandfather has described what he has called a Mixed Aneurimy or that kind of Aneu- rism which is formed by the rupture of the true Aneurism, and the consequent effusion of blood into the adjacent Cellular Substance. A dilatation of a cluster of the smaller Arteries sometimes takes place, forming the Aneurism by A nastomosis ofMaJoHN Beli.. When an unnatural communication is establish- ed between a Vein and the Artery which lyes un- der it: this has been called by Dr W. Huntf,r the Varicose Aneurism. A w’ound of an Artery has been said, by au- thors, to form a Valse Aneurism. The blood sometimes insinuates itself along the course of the principal artery and vein of the Limb, constitut- ing an irregular oblong Aneurism. 7'his has been called the Diffused False Aneurism. Sect. IV. OF INTERNAL ANEURISMS. Internal Aneurisms of the Arch of the Aor- ta are frequent in the middle and decline of life j VOL. II. A aOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. :}To as also Aneurisms at the division of the Aorta Into its great branches, the Iliacae communes. There are four varieties of Aneurisms of the Aorta: i. There is a kind of Aneurism in which the Aorta is uniformly expanded for the space of four or five inches ; and, in some more rare in- stances, for eight or ten inches. 2. In the second variety of Aneurism, the dila- tation of the Aorta is very irregular; so that there seem to be in the Arch of the Aorta two or three distinct Tumours, which freely communicate with each other. 3. In the third variety of Aneurism, there is a Tumour of considerable bulk, which communi- cates by a narrow neck with one side of the Aorta. 4. The fourth variety of Aneurism of the Aor- ta may perhaps be described as a modification of the third; for it dilFers only from the'preceding as to the uniform diameter and extent of the Tumour connected with the Arch of the Aorta. This kind of Aneurism, which bears a strong resem- blance to those diverticula which are sometimes connected with the Intestines, has frequently been mistaken for an Aneurism' of the Subclavian or Carotid Arteries. Wlicn the Arch of the Aorta is in a state of Aneurism, its coats are generally somewhat thick- er than common; and are so loosely connected as sometimes to separate spontaneously, and, as has been already stated, are frequently partially ossi- fied. 'OF ANEURISMS OF THE HEART. 371 Aneurisms of the Arch of the Aorta sometimes burst into the Pericardium, or, by their pressure, occasion the absorption of the Breastbone or Ribs, and form an external Tumour*, which bursts in the course of a few months ; but, in a few instances, such Aneurisms are filled by coagulable Lymphj and do not prove fatal in consequence of rupture, but by irritating the lungs, and occasioning Phthi- sis Pulmonalis. Sometimes the contents of the Aheurism burst into the left branch of the Windpipe. In a few cases the Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta extends backwards, and has caused, by its pressure, a caries of the Spine. Aneurisms of the Pfilinonary Artery are much more rare than those of the Aorta. Sect. V. OF ANEURISMS OF THE HEART. The posterior side of the Heart is frequently much extended, or in a state of Aneurism. This is connected with ossification of the Valves of the Aorta, which, becoming rigid, do not yield ; for a small chink only remains between these, by which the free flow or exit of blood from the Heart is much impeded. When the Heart is dilated, its muscular parie- tes are generally much thickened j sometimes, A a 2OUTLINES or ANATOMr. * Vid. Hist. Med. Vol. II. p. 33. 372 though very rarely, they become thinner than in the healthy state. The dilatation is sometimes general ; on other occasions, limited to one side of the Heart, or to one of the Ventricles and Auricles. The Aneurism of the Heart is sometimes suc- ceeded by the rupture of that organ. • Sect. VI. OF INFLAMMATION, ABSCESS, MORTIFICATION, AND OSSIFICATION OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. The Vascular System, owing to the structure of its Coats, is subject to dliJerent organic derange- ments. It is sometimes inflamed, especially the Heart. Induration and abscesses of the Heart sometimes occur. Mortification of the Heart has been described by Lieutaud. * The greater share of the muscular flesh of the Heart has been converted into Cartilage, or Bone ; and sometimes, though rarely, into a fatty sub- stance. The Valves of the Heart, and especially the Mitral Valve, are frequently thickened, indurated, or ossified. Polypus has been described by the older aii-OF ANEURISMS OF THE DESCENDING AORTA. 373 thors as a frequent disease of the Heart, but im- properly ; Polypi being generally formed at the instant of death, and very rarely during life. Sect. VII. OF ANEURISMS OF THE DESCENDING AORTA. Aneurisms in all respects similar to those of the Arch of the Aorta which have been above described, sometimes occur in the course of the descending Aorta; andstill more frequently, where . the Aorta divides into its two great branches, the Iliacse communes. .. SECT. VIII. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE PERICARDIUM. The diseases of the Pericardium are in all re- spects similar to those of the Pleurae Costales. This membrane is frequently inflamed, by which it is much thickened, and sometimes adheres to the surface of the Heart; and of this inflamma- tion Dr CoRvisART has described three varieties, the Acute, Subacute, and Chronic. The Pericardium is sometimes ossified. A watery fluid is frequently collected withinOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 371 the Pericardium, where water is effused into the Sacs of the Pleurse. The Coats of the Coronary Arteries of the Heart have sometimes been ossified. AUTHORS ON THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE HEART, ARTERIES, AND VEINS. Authors on Aneurism. Dr Monro Primus. J^id. his Works. 4to. De Haen, Rat. Med. P. IV. c. 2. P. VI. c. 4-. § 4. De Haen, R.at. Med. Cont. II. Lancisius, (Jo. Mar.) de Mdtu Cordis et Aneurys- matibus. Rom. 1728. Folio. Portal in Memoires de Paris, 1784-5, Auscrl. Abh. fur. pr. Aerzte. Sen AC, Traite du Cceur, &c. L. VI. p. 485, seqq. Senac, Traite du Cocur, L. VI. cap. 4. Clark in Medic. Comm, of Edinburgli. Sandifort, Observat. Anatom. Pathol. IV. N. 10. Walter in Mem. del’Academic de Berlin, 1785. Dr D. Monro on Aneurism. Guattanni de Aneurismatibus. Scarpa on Aneurism, translated by Wisiiart. J. N. Couvisart, Essai sur les Maladies et Ics Le- sions Organiques du Cocur, et des Gros Vaisseaux, 2d Edit. Svo. Paris 1811.AUTHORS ON inflammation OF THE HEART, &C. 375 Authors on the Injlammation of the Heart. Meckel in Memoires cle I’Acad. cle Berlin, 1756, p. 3f. Nunn, Diss. cle Carciitide Spontanea. Erf. 1788. CoRViSART, Essai sur les INIalad. et les Lesions Or • ganiques du Coeur. 2d Edit. Paris 1811. Dr Baillie’s Morbid Anat. Authors on the Dilatation of the Heart. Diemerbroeck, Anat. L. II. cap. 6. Fabricius Hildanus, Cent. IV. Obs. 50. Haller, Opusc. Pathol. Obs. 21. Dr D. Monro, Edinb. Med. and Pliys. Essays, vol. III. • Authors on the JRupture of the Heart and Bloodvessels. Langlade in Journal de Medicine. 1788. Aout. Ludwig, Adversar. I. 1. N. 4. Morgagni, de Sed. et Causs. Morb. Epist. LXIV. Art. 15. .Murray, Dissertatio de Ruptura Cordis. Upsal, 1785. Wright in Medic. Obs. and Inquiries. VI. 48. Authors on Diseases of the Valves of the Heart. I Bartholetus de Resiiiratione, L. IV. c. 11, Lancisius, de Sub. Mort. p. 121. Senac, I. C. cap. 5.376 OUTLINES OF ANaTOMY. Authors on Ulceration of the I^lturt. Colli s, (Sam.) Systema Aniitomicum. ]jond. 1705. Folio. Van Doevehn, Specimen Observat. N. 4. Morgagni, cle Sal. & Causs. Morb. Epist. XXV. Art. 19. srqq. Epist. XXVII. Art. 24. Richter, Chir. Bibl. Ib. 11. St. p. 156. Aiithoi’s on the Adhesion of the Pericardium to the Heart. De Haen, Rat. Med. P. II. p. 113. Mf-ckelIii Menioircs de rAcudemie de Berlin, 1756, p. 58. Senac, Traitc dii Co?ur. L. VI. cap- 2. Dr Baillie’s Morbid Anatomy,^377 EXPLANATION OF PLATES. EXPLANATION OF PLATES. Explanation of Elate XXXIII. This Engraving represents a large true Aneu- rism of the Arch of che Aorta. A, The Heart which 'was not enlarged. B, The Right Auricle of the Heart, C, The Right Ventricle. D, The Left Auricle. E, The Left Ventricle. F H I, The Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta. G, The Left Subclavian Artery. ^ L, The Gullet, separated from the Trachea by the Aneurism. M, The under part of the Gullet. N, The Windpipe. P and Q, The Right and Left Branches of the Windpipe. Explanation of Plate XXXIV. This Plate also represents'an Aneurism, of the Aorta, but of a different kind from that repre- sented in the last Engraving ; for the Arch of the Aorta is much dilated; and there is, at the same378 OUTLINES OF ANATOMV. time, a large Tumour connected with tile side of it. A and B represent an outline of a part of the Heart. C C, The enlarged Aorta. D D D, The Branches arising from the Arch of the Aorta. E E, A large Sac, communicating with the en- larged Aorta at the place marked by letter F. Explanation of Plate XXXV. This Plate represents an Aneurism of the Aorta, combined with an Enlargement and Ossification of the Coronary Arteries. A, a part of the left Ventricle of the Heart. D D, Mark the boundaries of the Enlarged Aorta. E, The Mouth of one of the Enlarged and' Ossified Coronary Arteries. F, One of the Valves at the Mouth of the Aorta, which was much thickened and indurated. G and H, Two of the Branches arising from the Arch of the Aorta, of their natural size.. I • I I PART XL J : V-GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON RESPIRATION, &C. 381 Sect. 'I. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON RESPIRATION, AND ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE THORAX AND LUNGS. XVespiration is one of those functions which have been justly called Vital; for to live and- breathe are synonymous terms. It consists of In- spiration, or the drawing in the air; and of Ex- piration, or the expelling it. For understand- ing, in a clear manner, the cause of the ingress and egress of the air, it is necessary to begin by describing the Thorax, the containing, and the Lungs, or contained part. The Thorax is lined, and its contents are cover- ed, connected, and supported by the Pleura:, se- rous membranes, which are in all respects similar to the Peritonaeum. The Pleurae, after lining the Ribs, and Intercostal Muscles, form Capsules for the Lungs, which arc placed side by side, and do not communicate with each other : Hence water, air, pus, or blood, do not pass from one side to the other j and the Lungs of opposite sides beingOUTLINES OF* ANATOMV^ 3fi2 Independent of each other, respiration may be continued, though the Lung of one side has been destroyed. The Sacs, which contain the Lungs of opposite sides, being nearly in opposition, form the parti- tion of the Chest called Mediastinum Anterius, which is connected to the Sternum and Cartila- ges of the Ribs of the left side of the Chest; and hence the Chest is divided into two cavities of unequal size. The right and left Lungs are not exactly equal in length and breadth ; the right being broader than the left, and also shorter ; for the right side of *the Diaphragm rises higher up into the Tho- rax than the left. The Pleurte which form the Mediastinum An- terius, are not in Immediate contact with each other ; for, at the upper part of the Sternum, the Thymus and a few Lymphatic Glands are inter- posed between its component layers and below the Heart, and the great bloodvessels included within the Pericardium. The Pleurae, after covering the right and left Lungs, are again united, and afterwards separated, to form the Mediastinum Fosterius; a triangular space, in which the Aorta, Gullet, Lymphatic Glands, the Eighth Pair of Nerves, the lower end of the Trachea and Bronchi, are contained. The Pleurae are reflected from the Posterior Mediasti- num to cover the heads of the Ribs, the Lympha- tic Vessels, Nerves, and their Ganglia.OF THE LUNGS. 385 Sect. II. OF THE LUNGS. . The Lungs, which correspond in figure with the Thorax, are of a conical figure, broader be- low than above ; convex before, behind, and la- terally, and with the surface next the Heart some- what flattened; and are concave below, where they are in contact with the Diaphragm. ' The colour of the Lungs depends in some mea- sure on the quantity of blood they contain ; hence it varies in different parts of the organ, and is deepest in the lowest part of the Lungs, which contains the greatest quantiiy of blood. The Lungs of such only who have died suddenly from loss of blood, and in health, as the victims of the guillotine, communicate a correct idea of the colour of the Lungs ; and in tlil» bodies of such persons, according to the French anatomists, the Lungs of the adult are of a grey or pale colour. The Lungs also vary somewhat as to colour at different periods of life ; those of an infant being rather redder than those of the aged, and not spotted like the latter. The Lungs communicate to the touch a spongy feeling, on account of the numerous air vessels and air cells which enter into their composition.OUTLINE?? OF ANATOMY. 5St For a similar reason they float on the surface of water. Of the Lobes and Lobules of the Lungs.- The Lungs consist of Lobes ; of which there are three on the right side, and two on the left. F.ach Lobe is divided into its component irregular shaped Lobules, which are united by cellular sub- stance. Of the Coats of the Lungs. Vhere are two Coats proper to the Lungs, the external of which is derived from the Pleura, and which covers only their surface j wLcreas the in- ternal not only covers the greater Lobes, but en- ters between the component Lobules of the Lungs. These Coats adhere so intimately to each other in the adult as to be separated with difficulty; but in the foetus, they may be readily separated from each other. Sect. III. OF THE AIR TUBES AND AIR CELLS OF THE LUNGS. The atmospherical air, owing to its weight, en- ters the Lungs through the Cartilago-membranous Tube, called the Trachea ot Windpipe^ or Aspera®F THE Alli TUBES AND CELLS OF THE LUNGS. 385 Artcl'ia, on account of the Cartilages which pro- ject from its surface, and render it to the touch rough. The Trachea is placed at the fore part of the Neck, and connected to the under part of the Larynx, where it is covered only by skin and cellular membrane ; but a little lower by the Thy- roid Gland; and towards the under part of the Neck it lyes deeper, and is in part covered by the Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid Muscles. The Trachea is divided nearly opposite to the Third Dorsal Vertebra, into two great branches called Bronchi^ one of which passes to the right, the other to the left Lungs. These branches are of unequal diameter j the left is the smaller and longer, and passes under the Arch of the Aorta,- before penetrating the substance of the Lungs; whereas the right dips immediately into the Lungs. The Bronchi are subdivided into a great num- ber of small branches, which are distributed through every part of the Liings, and each branch of which has its corresponding Artery and Vein. The Cartilages of the Trachea are various in number, according to the length of the Neck; generally we meet with sixteen of them. They, are placed horizontally, in respect to the axis of the Windpipe j are bent forwards like a bow ; are uniform in length and thickness; are continued around about two-thirds of the Windpipe, which /OL. ii‘ B b•UTLINES 6T ANAtOHir. is rounded before, but flattened behind, where ic is in contact with the Gullet. The Trachea and its branches are lined by a very irritable mucous membrane, which is kept constantly moist by Mucus which is derived from a number of mucous glands, situated at the back part of the Windpipe, and between its Cartilages.^ The Cartilages of the Windpipe are connected by a ligamentous elastic Coat; and between it and the mucous lining there are muscular fibres, arranged in a circular and longitudinal direction. The Bronchi are similar to the Trachea ia structure, excepting in being surrounded by irre- gular segments of Cartilage. The Bronchi are subdivided into still smaller, branches, called the Membranous Tubes, which lead to the Air Cells of the Lungs. Of' the Air Cells of the Lungs, The Air Cells of the Lungs may be demonstrat- ed by inflating the Lungs, or by filling them with, quicksilver, and afterwards drying and cutting the Lungs. They vary in‘ size in different animals, being largest in the amphibia; and^ even in the same class of animals, their size does not corre- spond with the size of the animal. The surface of the A' Cells in the human body is much greater than that of the skin} and ha5 been differently estimated by authors.bP ftlE BLOODVESSELS OF THE LUNGS, ^7 SECT. IVi OF THE BLOODVESSELS OF THE LtJNGS. The Bloodvessels constitute a very important part of the organs of respiration. The purpose of respiration being to produce a change on the blood, by the operation of.the atmospherical air, the Lungs are constructed in such a mantief that fresh portions of atmospherical air are successive- ly admitted into them ; to which the blood is ex- posed : and thus, not only its colour, but also its properties, are materially altered j and it is ren- dered capable of stimulating the Heart, the Brain, and other organs of the body, to the due perform- ance of their several functions in the animal eco- nomy. The bloodvessels of the Lungs are derived from two different sources, the Pulmonary^n^ Bronchial Arteries^ The Pulmonary Artery takes its rise from the upper and anterior part of the Anterior Ventricle of the Heart; it divides into two great branches, which supply the right and left Lungs. Each of these branches is subdivided into a great number of smaller branches; which are distributed through every part of the substance of the Lungs, and on the air cells, in the form of a net-work. The corresponding Pulmonary Veins are united, and at length form four large veins, which dis- Bba ‘OUTLINES OK ANATOMY. 585 charge their contents Into the Posterior Auricle. The Bronchial Arteries take their rise from the descending Aorta; the branches of these arteries are distributed chiefly upon the Bronchi. The corresponding veins join with the Vena Azygos, and Left Intercostal Vein. Of the Lymphatic Vessels of the Lungs. There are two sets of Ijymphatic Vessels pro- per to the Lungs ; a superficial, and deeper seated set; which freely communicate with each other, and pass into the Bronchial Glands; which last are chiefly placed where the Trachea divides into its two great branches. Nerves of the Lungs. The Nerves of the Lungs are derived from the Plexuses formed by the union of the eighth pair, and Sympathetic Nerves. , SECT. V. S OF TtlE MECIIANISIM BY WHICH RESPIRATION IS PERFORMED. Respiration consists In the alternate reception and expulsion of the air from the Lungs, or of Inspiration and Esrpiration. The Lungs, during respiration, are passive, and follow the motions of the Chest j and have notJilUSCLES BY WHICH INSPIRATION IS ACCOMPLISHED. 389 inaptly been compared to a pair of bellows con- taining an empty bladder, the neck of which is so adapted to the boards of the bellows, as to admit the air on the boards being separated from each other. The Muscles by which Respiration is perform- ed belong to that class of muscles w'hich have been called Mixed \ as we can retard, accelerate, or stop, for a short time only, the action of these muscles. Of the Muscles hy rchich Inspiraticm is accomplished. The Muscles more Immediately concerned in Inspiration are, the Intercostal Muscles Dia- jdu'agm. Of the Intercostal Muscles. There are two strata of Intercostal Muscles, which are oblique muscles, and with their fibres crossing each other. The external stratum arises from the under edge of each Rib, excepting the twelfth, and runs obliquely downwards and for- wards from the Spine to the union of the Ribs, with their Cartilages, and is fixed into the upper edge of each Rib. There are portions of the External Intercostal Muscles which arise from the transverse processes of the,Vertebrae, and have been named Levaloixs Costarum Breviores et Longiores.OmxiNES OF ANATOMY. 5D0 T. he origin of the Internal Intercostal Muscles is similar to thar of the External. Fhey run- downwards and backwards, crossing the former stratum, and are continued as far as the angles of the Kibs. The external Stratum is not found between the Cartilages of the Ribs and the Breastbone; nor the Internal Stratum between the Angles of the Ribs, and Spine. Both Strata are subservient to the elevation of the Ribs. My Father, speaking o'f this sub- ject, has observed, ‘ The chief circumstances which prove beyond ‘ a doubt, that the two rows of Intercostal Muscles conspire in elevating the Ribs, arc, ‘ 1. That the first Rib is so much fixed at both its ends as to be almost immoveable ; and its Cartilage, instead of being connected to the Ster- num by a capsular ligament, or articulated with it in the same manner as the Cartilages of the other Ribs, grows as firmly to the Sternum as to the Rib. ‘ 2. That the second Rib is more fixed than the third ; and the third more fixed than the fourth ; and so on downwards. ‘ 3. That as the Ribs, from the first Rib.down- wards, grow gradually longer, and describe por- tions of larger circles, we may observe, that iii general, [or when we examine a middle portion of the Intercostal Muscles, or a portion half way between the Sternum and Vertebrte, the insertionON THE INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES. 391 of the lower end of the portion is at a greater distance from either end of the lower Rib, or from a straight line drawn between the two ends of that Rib, than its origin in the Rib above is from the two ends of that Rib, or from a straight line drawn between them. Hence, whether we consi- der the head of the Rib, connected with the Ver- tebrne, as its centre of motion,jor w'hether we con- sider the Rib as moving upon a straight line or axis drawn between its two ends, it follows, that a muscle placed between two Ribs acts with a .longer lever upon the under Rib than upon the upper one, and therefore must elevate the under Rib. V ‘ 4. To determine the effect of the contraction of any muscle, I apprehend, we need only to ob- serve in the dead body what the situation is in which the muscle in question is relaxed. Apply- ing this rule, we shall find, that the whole Inter- costal Muscles, internal as well as external, are shortened when we elevate the Ribs, and place them in that situation in which we find they are in inspiration. ‘ 5. If the Internal Intercostal Muscles had been intended for the depression of the Ribs, w’e certainly should not have found them continued to the Sternum, because their anterior ends are fixed above to the edge of the Sternum, or so near to the insertion of the Cartilage of the upper Rib in the Sternum ; and their inferior ends are, in consequence of their obliquity, fixed to the underOUTLINES OF ANATOMV. 392 Rib SO much farther from the Sternum, that they must act upon the under Rib with more advan- tage of lever, or are intended for its elevation. ‘ On the other hand, if the Internal Intercos- tals had been intended for the depression of the Ribs, we certainly should have found them con- tinued backwards to the Spine ; because, from their obliquity, their under end would have been fixed to the Vertebrae, or nearer to the head of the Rib, and their upper end at such a distance from it, that this portion of the muscle would have been better calculated than any other portion of it for the depression of the Rib. ‘ 6. In a few experiments which I made on living animals, soon after I began to study ana- tomy, and which I repeated afterwards, particu- larly in 1770, I saw plainly, as Dr Haller had done, that both rows of Intercostal Muscles were in action during inspiration. ‘ Let us now consider the purpose, ‘ First, Of the obliquity of the fibres in the In- tercostal Muscles; and, ‘ Secondly, Of their being disposed in two lay- ers, the fibres of which decussate each other, ^ It is evident, that the obliquity of the fibres here is not intended to increase their number, or the strenc[th of the muscle, because the fibres would have been more numerous if they had pass- ed directly from the one Rib to the other, or had been inserted into the Ribs at right angles, f I apprehend, therefore, that we are explainON THE INTEllCOSTAL MUSCLES. 393 the reasons of the structure in the following man- ner: ‘ Nature, in order to give protection to the Heart and Lungs, has formed the Ribs as broad and fiat as possible, or left no more space be- tween them than is required for lodging muscles for their motion in respiration. Consistently with this view, as the R.ibs are fixed at both ends, so that they cannot be moved backwards and for- wards, but are confined to motion upwards and downwards, remaining nearly parallel to each o- ther, oblique muscles are preferred to straight; for if the former can, as I have before demon- strated, perform more extensive motion than the latter, even where both are of the same length, they must have a still greater effect, where the two kinds of muscles are confined between the same parallels. ‘ Thus, suppose the direct distance, or perpen- dicular drawn from one Rib to another, to be represented by three parts ; and that the Intercos- tal Muscle, in consequence of its obliquity, mea- sures five such parts; and that each of these is capable, when in action, of shortening itself one- fifth part of its length ; it appears from the de- monstration, that the oblique muscle can move the Rib through a space five times greater than the straight muscle can do. ‘ On accurate mensuration, I found the length pf the Intercostal Muscle to be one inch and a394 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. half, the perpendicular line one inch, and the base about one and one-eighth inch. Hence, calculating on the supposition, that the muscular fibre, in action, shortens itself one-fifth of its length, it will be found, that the Intercostal Mus- cles, in consequence of their obliquity, produce a greater motion of the Ribs than perpendicuHr muscles could have done, nearly in the propor- tion of 35 to 12. ‘ The only point remaining to be explained, is, why nature hath formed two layers of Intercostal Muscles decussating each other. *■ The purpose of this, I apprehend, is to render the motion of the Rib upwards as direct as pos- sible, and to prevent it from being drawn or pres- ed forwards upon the Sternum, or backwards upon the Vertebrae, so much as, by its friction, to interrupt the freedom of its motion. ‘ Upon the whole, by the obliquity of the In- tercostal Muscles, the motion of the Ribs is very much greater than could have been performed by straight muscles plaqed betw'een them. At the same time, by their consisting of two layers, or two muscles decussating and balancing each other, the motion of the Ribs, upwards and downwards, is as direct, and with as little friction, as if it had been performed by straight or perpendicular muscle?. *®F THE DIAPHRAGM, &C. 39S Of the Diaphragm, or Muscular Partition Z>e- txteen the Chest and Abdomen. In the natural state of Respiration, this muscle is the principal agent". This muscle is convex towards the Thorax during expiration, and concave towards the Ab- domen. It is composed of two distinct mus- cles, called the Larger or Uppei', and the Un- der or Smaller Diaphragm. The Larger Dia- phragm takes its rise from the Ensiform Car- tilage, from the Cartilages of the Seventh and Lower Ribs on both sides; and the fleshy fibres meet in a central tendon, which somewhat re- sembles the Heart in figure. On the right side of this Central Tendon, there is an aperture for the Vena Cava Inferior. This muscle is covered next the Chest by the Pleura, -and next the Ab- domen by the Peritonaeum. The Smaller Diaphiagm takes its rise by four Crura of unequal length. The Longer Crura a- rise from the fore part of the Fourth Lumbar Vertebra, and adhere to all the Vertebrae of the Loins, by means of a strong ligament. Between these Crura, there is an oval-shaped aperture for the Aorta and Thoracic Duct. The muscular fibres of the several organs of this muscle ascend, and in the middle unite, so ,3S to form two fleshy columns, which cross eachrtl'TLlNES OK ANATOMY. :^96 Other ; and between these the Gullet is placed. This smaller muscle also is fixed into the Central Cordiform Tendon. The Larger and Smaller Diaphragm are powerful muscles in respiration, and several other actions. During inspiration, the capacity of the Tho- rax is increased in three dilferent directions. By the descent ot the lateral muscular portions of the Diaphragm, and by the ascent of the Ribs, which are placed obliquely in respect to the Spine, the Thorax is rendered longer; and, by the Ribs be- ing thrust outw-ards, during their ascent, the transverse diameter of the Chest is increased; and, in consequence of the Breastbone being thrust forwards during the elevation of the Ijlibs, the Thorax is rendered deeper, and the distance between the Breastbone and Vertebras becomes greater. Respiration may be performed chiefly or solely by the Intercostal Muscles, or Diaphragm. The Intercostal Muscles are chiefly employed when the descent of the Diaphragm is impeded by the un- usual bulk of the bowels of the Belly or Pelvis; as in cases of pregnancy, or in cases of the in- flammation of the Peritonaeum. On the other hand, the Diaphragm is the sole or the principal agent in respiration when the Ribs are broken; or when their motion is rendered very painful by an inflammation of the Pleura; or when their carti- lages become rigid, or are reduced to a state of bone, as frequently happens during old age.397 OF THE MUSCLES OF EXPIRATION, &C. Of the Muscles of Expiration. The Muscles of the Parietes of the Abdomen are the principal agents by which Expiration is performed, to which the elastic reaction of the Cartilages of the Ribs which had been twisted during inspiration, also contributes. There are several other muscles which may be occasionally brought into action during expira- tion. Sect. VI. OF THE EFFECTS OF RESPIRATION ON THE BLOOD. That the Blood undergoes some very remark- able change during its passage through the Lungs, during which it is exposed to the influence of the atmospherical air, has been long known and may be distinctly seen by opening a living animal—by exposing venous blood to a stream of oxygene air— by diverting the blood from the Lungs ;—and the remarkable symptoms which occur when all the blood does not pass through the Lungs, distinctly prove the effect of Respiration upon the blood.398 OHTLINES OP ANATOMV, Sect. VII. OF THE EFFECTS OF RESPIRATION UPON TI^E ATMOSPHERICAL AIR. The quantity of air which is inspired has been very differently rated. According to the most accurate experiments, about forty cubic inches of air are inspired. Air that has passed through the Lungs differs from atmospherical air, ist. In containing a con- siderable proportion of carbonic acid gas, as was distinctly proved by Dr Blactc, by expiring through lime-water, which is thereby rendered turbid, the carbonate of lime being insoluble in water. 2. Air that has been breathed contains less oxygene gas. 3. The bulk of the inspired air is somewhat diminished. The quantity of air that is expired is nearly e- qual to that which is inspired. There is also a small quantity of an aqueous vapour discharged from the Lungs,AUTHORS ON RESPIRATION. 399 Authors on Hespiration. .Lower, Tractatusde Corde. Amst. IG^l. Hales’s Statical Essays. 4to Edit. London 1769. Priestley’s Observations on Respiration. Lond. Phil. Trans, for 1776. Black’s Lectures, by Robison, Edin. 1803. Lavoisier sur la Respiration. Mem. de I’Acad. pour 1777 et pour 1789. Sur 1’Alteration dans I’Air, Ibid, pour 1790. ScHEELE on Air and Fire, by Forster. LoikI. 1780. Goodwin on the Connexion of Life with Respira- tion. Lond. 1788. Priestley’s Experiments on Air. Birniing. 1790. Higgins’s Minutes of a Society, Lond. 1793. Lavoisier’s Elements of Chemistry, by Kerr. E- din. 1793. Menzies on Respiration. Edin. 1796. Wells’s Observations on the Colour of tlie Blood. Phil. Trans, for 1797. Coleman on Respiration. Lond. 1802. Sir Humphry Davy’s Researches. Lond. 1800. Lncyclop.ed. Britannica, Suppl. Edin. iSoi. Thomson’s System of Chemistry. Edin. 1811. Allen and Pepys’s Experiments on Respiration. London Phil. Trans. I# , • w ry " -«o efo»r.: .ttx>«V4“\V,'.>St IK» V''1#V»K ’ . '7 1 I rt^fHioJ .UjiT? '>^«^ .!T^i^4*i »*olt«t'!i •bfluj .Noii*. 90 Wl^«U4)V1<MrK'> ,,i, ... . . ‘^^V* ,^i04t .n<u i '.Ko-uu /X sjf^ ^ iwoq^'.Ivw^Al Ji .if/->!^' \ao4itn.4j< -WmI h*/ h^uiova.I ^WWI. .(JfcVi iCtoqi ;t7i ‘ .OeTiiiKMj .0B?1 4*/;o I DO atjUi A fim "iti i5»itr>arr>0 yiiffcmii < ■ V.' ^**'‘ t .bfM>.I . .miJt • X .j^i.*niQ .tJA mi «*)ciLiTiar?H*M . . I .C07li 4hi'oJ a ‘fiii-'A vd ,\ni*uu>fO. X# ihumvfCl <tAxizty^*^l '' ■" , .d^7l .niliH .noit&ifqnn noM^'.^aV , .WtifU Wi ^ •ni'jlo''J »iii- %t. iiMnhth^Ki n*S>Xi%’^ ; " < '• ,T({«1 td!‘.*nnT-JJ(n * ' * ■ ’ '5 • . ’ .feffoJr tt<si>irtiq»»XT , ,! . Inftikl j»tbi/»qi»JT t*YVArj '. ^ ^ .toA*> ,^j3 ^/.^ikkatibU .<in.noo:.^^ V 4 . l I. ;i .ntXi3^ //•i4*ifn*»f^..>, to iii^i*'7j4 . i- ;3.4o?*<rc£t' ^o jfc'iuvf *4 Iiha v.iixiA ' • -4 ■ • :'M^'''i«i'’ ^W iiJiaybtaa ■*: •■-f^ • -■■• '•'■,■■. ►I ■ I • \- r- 1 . a, . -‘i • K- .t. ,/i A '•c c VOL. II. / # PART XII.I % N t • > * ^ ‘ M ,4^*C*. '-»j^4|'*-r*. ¥m<' ft t " iP.‘ * -f ■ ■ . yi <* ' < y'v ^ ..'. . ‘. ..... -■ ^ ■ MX .THA'h \.,f ..,• . * ^ i- I ^• 4. ^*u VV . 5- '•' V ■ ■ ...' . '♦jv.A'j;' 1' w .J5, .*. V . / i" ' >‘j. , t • ■ ' •*r^ :• * 4 >* A ^*V.C c 2 OF ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE LUNGS. 405 CHAPTER I. OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE LUNGS. Sect I. OF INFLAMMATION OF THE LUNGS. Inflammation of the Lungs is extremely fre- quent in our variable climate; and the Lungs, when so diseased, bear a strong resemblance, in consistence and colour, to the Liver, being red- der than the healthy Lungs, and so solid as to sink in water. The inflammation is on some oc- casions general, on others partial; and the in- flamed part is frequently covered by a layer of coagulable Lymph, the thickness of which varies in different cases, by which the Lungs are firmly fixed to the Pleura Costalis. The inflammation of the Lungs is often accom- panied by an inflammation of the Pleura, and by an effusion of turbid serum into the Sac of the Pleura of the affected side. Abscesses of different sizes, and also effused blood, have been found in different parts of theOUTLINES or ANATOMY. 464- substance of the Lungs ; and when the Pus is lodged in the cavity of the Pleura, the disease has been called Kmpijema. J he Lungs have been sometimes, though very rarely, reduced to a state of gangrene. 1 ubercle is the most frequent organic derange- ment of the Lungs, of which Dr Stark has given the most accurate account. Tubercles, ac- cording to Dr Stark, are generally seated in the upper and posterior parts of the Left Lungs, are of a whitish colour and cartilaginous consist- ence, and, when small, are solid, and always found in the cellular substance of the Lungs, and often in clusters. * At first they are very small, commonly numer- ous; and, when they attain a certain size, matter * Some autliors have supjjosed Tubercles to be diseased Lymphatic Glands ; though anatomists have not, hitherto, detected Lymphatic Glands in the healthy Lungs; and for the following reasons. 1. Because disease has discovered Lymphatic Glands and ]jymphatic Vessels in many parts of the human body which bad been supposed to be destitute of these. 2. Because Tubercles of the Lungs bear a striking re^ > semblance to the Lymphatic Glands in colour and consist- ence, and to other diseased Lymphatic Glands, as those of the Mesentery and Neck. 3. As Tubercles are often observed in clusters like dis- eased Lymphatic Glands. 4. As Tubercles undergo the same morbid changes as <liseased L3'mphatic Glands ; and, where diseased, as filled bv similar contents.OF iNFLAMtsiATlb^J- OF THE L'JNOS. 405 formed in their centre, by which they are Con- verted into VomicfU; during this they do not exhibit an appearance of inflammation ; and no bloodvessels can be seen on them even by the aid of the microscope. He has also stated, that Vomicae, the cavities of which are less than half ail ihch in diarneter, are always quite^shut, having na opening into the Bronchia, until they arrive at a size beyond thisbut that those which are larg- er, have constantly one, two, or more ramifica- tions of the Bronchia opening into them, through which the matter in some instances makes its way into the Trachea, and is evacuated without a rup- ture of the Vomica. * That the largest Vomicae only arc found ruptured ; and, when that is the case, there is an alteration in the appearance of the matter-contained in them. The same author also states, as an effect of Tubercles of a certain size, the rendering a part of the Lungs near them red, hard, and impervious to air, the destruction of the smaller vessels, and a contraction of the dia- meter of the larger vessels, which are frequently filled by a kind of fibrous substance. Dr Stark has also added, that the branches of the Trachea which communicate^with the Vomicae, are on no occasion contracted or 'obstructed, though their internal surface is always red and inflamed. A kind of tubercle, called the Brown Tuber- cle, has also been described by Dr BAii.Lii-. * Vid. London ?rled. Com. Vol I. p. 392.OUTLINES OF ANATOMV. t The Air Cells of the Lungs are sometimes much enlarged in the asthmatic, and sometimes ruptured from Hooping Cough. The liUngs are sometimes, in part, reduced to a state of Cartilage, within the centre of which Ossification takes place. ^ Hydatids are,someiimes attached to the Lungs. The Lungs have sometimes been ruptured by the Ribs being beaten inwards, or in consequence of excessive screaming:. Masses of coagulable Lymph are sometimes found within the branches of the Trachea, of which they take an exact mould. Cretaceous-like concretions are sometimes coughed up from the Lungs. In order to discover the composition of these Concretions found in the Lungs, I sent two or three of them to Mr Jotin Davy, and requested of him to examine them ; at the same time I sent to him a Concretion which had been lodged in the Trachea, and also a Concretion which had been obtained from the Duct of the Parotid Gland. Mr Davy has favoured me with the following account of the above Concretions. ‘ My Dear Sir, ‘ I tiAVE examined the Concretions \ ‘ you put into my hands ; and, from my experi- ‘ ments, they seem to approach very nearly to ‘ the nature of bone, not differing from bone in ® composition more than different kinds of boneOF INFLAMMATION OF THE LUNGS. , 40/ * do from each other ; and their physical proper- ‘ ties and general appearance are agreeable to * this idea. . It is unnecessary to describe the ex- ' periments I made on them, as the methods I ‘ employed were those commonly used in such ' analyses. I shall confine myself solely to a * statement of the results. ‘ The Concretion from the Lung of the gen- * tleman who died of Phthisis Pulmonalis appears ‘ to contain in the loo parts— ‘ 12.9 Cartilage, ‘ 66.7 Phosphat of Lime, * 20.4 Water, probably, and Gelatine. * 100.0 ‘ 100 parts of the Salivary Concretion consist- * ed of— ‘ 34.6 Cartilage, ‘ 46.2 Phosphat of Lime, ‘ 19.2 Water,’probably, and Gelatine. ‘ 100.0 * 100 parts of the Concretion from the Trachea * consisted of— ‘ 20.8 Cartilage,- * 5^*3 Phosphat of Lime, 20.9 Water, probably, and Gelatine. ‘ 100.0 /OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 108 ‘ The Water and Gelatine were not inimedi»i ‘ ately obtained ; but were inferred from the loss ‘ that occurred in the respective analyses. ‘ I remain, dear Sir, your, &c. ^ ‘ J. Davy. * Authors on the Ch'ganic Derangements of the Lungs, V Hippocrates De Morbis, Lib. I. cap. X. & XIV. Idem, de Intern. Affect, cap. XI. Alexander Trallian, Lib. V. cap. III. De Tu- berculo. Morton, Phthisiologia, Lib. II. cap. III. Sylvius de le Boe, Prax. Med. Append. Tr. 4. Sect. 50. Frederic Hoffman, Op. Tom. III. cap. XL De Affect. Phthi.sica. Stark’s Works, published by Dr Carmichael Smyth, London. Gregory (Jacobus) Inaug. de Morbis Cceli Muta- tione Medendis. Edinb. l774. De Haen, Rat. Med. Essays Medical and Experimental, by T. Percival. Harderi Apiarium, Obs. 46. 47. Ludwig Adv. Med. Pract. III. 751. f VPAHT xm.St- W'l •*wr» • < '(»r ■:. 2 • ^ ■ . r. *'■ ‘ti-lUiiftiMntir .lli ,,. jEv‘jj‘#Y^^1' ' .'Ik* • i ■' V. ruA^ ■ >£/%r7jp;pi5,^--.^v ^ ^ • ' M » ' > y V <^:;,. k. t . • ; •r or THE LARYNX. - CHAPTER I. Sect. I. .1 ^ OF THE LARYNX. Fhe Larynx, which forms the fore part of the Pharynx, is placed between the Os Hyoides, and upper part of the Windpipe j and is composed of Cartilages, united to each other by Membranes, Ligaments and Muscles, by which the Cartilages are moved. The Larynx is considerably broader above than below, and is symmetrical in form, its opposite sides being similar to each other. The size of the Larynx is not proportioned to the body. The size of the Larynx is also very various in different sexes. It is considerably broader in the male than in the female, and more prominent in its fore part in the former than in the latter, in which it is more rounded.OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Castration has also a considerable effect on the growth of the Larynx ; for that of the eunuch is never expanded like that of the perfect male. Five Cartilages have been described as being pro- per to the Larynx ; but one of these is merely the lid which covers the Larynx. Of the Thyroid Cartilage. The largest Cartilage has been called Thyroid, from its supposed resemblance to a shield. It occupies the fore and lateral parts of the Larynx, and consists of two wings, which are united be- fore, and form that prominence in ,the fore part of the neck so remarkable in the male, called the Pomum Adami, in the upper part of which there is a notch. The wings of the Thyroid Cartilage, when spread out, are somewhat of a square form, and are somewhat externally concave, and their con- cavities lodge the I'hyro-hyoid Muscles. The superior surface of the Thyroid Cartilage is connected by a distinct membrane to the Os Hyoides; and from its posterior Cornua, there are tw^o ascending portions, wdiich are united to the Os Hyoides by round ligaments. The inferior surfaces of this Cartilage are short- er than the superior, are curved backwards, and united with the articulating surfaces of the Cri- coid Cartilage,OF THE CRICOID CARTILAGE, 413 Of the Cricoid Cartilage. The Cricoid Cartilage forms the base on which the Thyroid and Arytenoid Cartilages are fixed by means of articular surfaces. This Cartilage is circular, and narrower before than behind, where it rises up between the wings of the Thy- roid Cartilage ; and on this posterior part of the Cartilage there are smooth surfaces; by which the Arytenoid Cartilages are articulated with the Cri- coid Cartilage. The posterior surface is divided by a ridge in- to two lateral cavities for the Crico-Arytenoidei Postici Muscles. The inferior part of the Cricoid Cartilage is placed horizontally, and is connected with the upper part of the Windpipe. The superior part of this Cartilage is connected to the Thyroid by a distinct membrane, and rises tip between the w'ings of the Thyroid Cartilage. Of the Arytenoid or Vyramidol Cartilages.' The Arytenoid Cartilages constitute the most important part of the Larynx, being connected •with the Chords, upon the state of which the voice more immediately depends j and the move- ments of these Cartilages tend also to the enlarge- ment, or diminution, of the aperture of the Glottis.OUTUNES OF ANATOMY. "rhese Cartilages are of a triangular figure, with their apices bent backwards. The posterior surface of the Arytenoid Carti- lages is filled up by the Arytenoid Muscles. The anterior surface is convex, with slight excavatures, which are occupied by the Arytenoid Glands. Ihe Arytenoid Cartilages are connected to each other by the membrane of the Larynx, and by muscular fibres ; and also to the Epiglottis, by a membranous fold on each side, which form the sides of the upper aperture of the Larynx. On the above membrane a very few muscular fibres may be observed in very robust men, which have been described as muscles by some anatomists. Of Ihe Epiglottis. The opening into the Larynx is covered by the Ligamento-Cartilaginous substance, which in fi- gure resembles the Tongue, and which has been called the Epiglottis: when raised, it is placed perpendicularly ; and where the Tongue is de- pressed, it is pressed down, and covers the passage into the Larynx, as in the act of sw^allowing. The Epiglottis is fixed by its under end, by means of a short ligament, to the middle notch of the Thyroid Gland ; and it is connected later- ally to the whole length of the Arytenoid Car- tilages. There are a number of Fissiirps or LacunWyOF THE LIGAMENTS OP THE LARYNX. 415 the orifices of Mucous Follicles, on the surface of the membrane which lines the Epiglottis. Sect.- II. OF THE LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, OR THE V.OCAL CHORDS. The Vocal Chords, w'hich are about half an inch long, extend between the Arytenoid Carti- lages and the angle formed by the junction of the wings of the Thyroid Cartilage ; and between these there is a chink, of a triangular form, called the Rima Glottulis. There are also two Vocal Chords, which are somewhat larger than the preceding, which ex- tend between the bases of the Arytenoid and Thyroid Cartilages ; and between the superior and inferior Vocal Chords there is a small cavity, capa- ble of admitting the point of the little finger, call- ed the Ventricle of the Lurijihr, The Larynx is lined by a very sensible mucous membrane, which forms opposite to the Arytenoid Cartilages a horizontal fold, that passes directly forwards, and is joined to the angle formed by the wings of the Thyroid Cartilage. ■ The membrane is continued downwards ; it lines the cavities called Ventricles of the Larynx, and then forms a second fold, which bounds the Ventricles below j and it also lines the VocalOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 41G Chords; lind afterwards the Trachea and its branches. On the surface of this membrane there are many orifices of mucous ducts. Sect. III. OF THE MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. The Larynx is moved as a whole by the mus- cles proper to other parts ; and its component Cartilages are also moved upon each other, by muscles which are implanted upon it. The greater number of the Muscles of the La- rynx are connected with the Arytenoid Cartilages, to which the Vocal Cords are fi.xed. If the Thyroid Cartilage be moved forwards, and the two Arytenoid Cartilages be drawn back- ■ wards at the same time, the Vocal Chords must be made tense ; and if, on the contrary, the Ary- tenoid Cartilages be moved forwards, these chords will be relaxed. If the Arytenoid Cartilages be drawn outwards, or separated from each other, the space between the Vocal Chords called Glot- tis will be made wider, or dilated ; and if, on the contrary, the Arytenoid Cartilages are drawn nearer'to each other, the Glottis will be constrict- ed or shut. For these several adions certain muscles are ap- propriated./ ...... 4 OF.TflE AnVTENOIDEUS TRAl^STERSUS, &C. 417 Arytenoideiis Tra?isverstis. The packet of muscular fibres which constitutes this muscle, are disposed transversely between the Arytenoid Cartilages; by which these Cartilages are drawn close to ea<fh otherand’ hence thtf Glottis is shut. Ai'ytenoidei Obliqui. The Arytenoidei Obliqui extend from the base of one of the Arytenoid Cartilages to the point of the other ; and the fibres of these muscles de- cussate each other like the strokes of the letter X.‘ These muscles are subservient to the same pur- pose as the preceding. Crico - A rytenoidei Latei'ales, These muscles take their origin from the sides' of the Cricoid Cartilage, where it is covered by the Thyroid ; and they are inserted into the sides of the bases of the Arytenoid Cartilages. These are the antagonists of the preceding muscles; by their cooperation they separate the Arytenoid Cartilages from each other, and dilate the Glottis. Of the Thyr O’Arytenoidei, These muscles, which take their rise from the un- der and back part of the Thyroid Cartilage, rurr VO I... ij-. dOUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 41S upwards upon the side of the Glottis, and are In- serted into the fore part of the Arytenoid Car- tilage. By these muscles the Arytenoid Cartilages are pulled forwards towards the Thyroid, and the Vo- cal Chords are shortened. Of the Crico-Thyroidei. These muscles arise from the sides and fore parts of the Cricoid Cartilage, and are inserted into the under parts and inferior Cornua of the Thyroid Cartilage. Crico-Arylcnoidci Postin. These muscles arise from the back part of the Cricoid Cartilage, and are inserted into the narrow- extremity of the' back part of the base of the Arytenoid Cartilage. These muscles pull the Arytenoid Cartilages backwards ; and, when thrown into action at the same time as the Crico-Thyroid, the Vocal Chords ai*e fully stretched, or made tense. Slct. IV. OF THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE LARYNX. The limits of these outlines only permit me to add a few observations respecting.the Physiology of the Larynx.OF THE PHYSIOLOGY OP THE LARYNX. 419 * The Larynx is composed of elastic Cartilages, each of which is well calculated for vibrating. The sound of the voice is occasioned by the vibrations to which the air expelled from the Lungs is exposed in passing through the Glottis. Sounds are grave, or acute and loud, according to the size of the Larynx and of the aperture of the Glottis, and the tension of the Vocal Chords. That the Larynx is the principal seat of the voice may be proved by a siniple experiment. By opening the Windpipe below the Larynx the voice • is lost. f It seems probable, that the sound of the voice has some connexion with the capacity of the La- rynx : hence the very remarkable difference in the sound of the voice, when the Larynx is raised or depressed, in the different sexes, and at dif- ferent periods of life. The above observation is applicable to the case of eunuchs, whose tones of voice and I.arynx resemble those of the fe- male : hence also the similarity of the voice of infants of both sexes at the period of birth, whose Larynxes are similar in size and form : hence the remarkable distinction between the sound of the voice in the different sexes after puberty, when the Larynx of the male is much expanded. The human voice has been compared by some authors fo a Jlute; by others, to a chorded imlrU' mail.i20 OUTLINES OF ANATONfY. The human Larynx is, however, superior to all instruments made by human art. It is composed of Cartilages, so constructed, disposed, and articulated with each other, as to be susceptible of a great variety of motion ; and which are affected by those slighter tremors of the air that do not in the smallest degree influ- ence either a wind or chorded instrument. Be- sides, the vocal chords which alter and modify the tones of the voice are stretched in very vari- ous degrees by the muscles of the Larynx, and are fixed to elastic and flexible Cartilages ; where- as the chords of all musical instruments arc fixed to substances which possess these properties, so essential to harmony and variety of sound, in a very inferior degree. CHAPTER II OF THE GLANDS CONNECTED WTTH THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. There are Glands of three different descriptions which arc connected with the Larynx and Tra- chea, viz. Mucous Glands, the Thyroid Gland, and Bronchial or Lymphatic Glands.Ot THE MUCOUS GLjJiKDS, &C, 421 Sect. I. OF THE MUCOUS GLANDS CONNECTED WITH THE LARYNX. On the side of the Epiglottis, next the Larynx, the orifices of a number of Glands are visible, through which a mucous liquor is discharged. There is a triangular space filled by cellular substance and small Mucous Glands between the Ligaments, which connect the Epiglottis to the notch of the Thyroid Cartilage, and to the under side of the Os Hyoides, and one which fixes the base of the Os Hyoides. Sect. II. OF THE MUCOUS GLANDS OF THE TRACHEA. There are a great many small Mucous Glands which are situated in the posterior part of the Trachea, and also between the Cartilaginous rings of that tube.422 OUTLINES OF ANATOMF, s Sect. Ill, OF THE THYROID GLAND. The Thyroid Gland is situated immediately beneath the Larynx, upon the Trachea, and cover- ed by the Sterno-Thyroid, Sterno-Hyoid, and Omohyoid Muscles. 1 his Gland varies in size In different individ- uals. It is composed of two distinct lobes, gene- rally united by a small transverse flat band, the thickness of which is very various. _ '' This Gland is covered by a condensed cellular, sheath, within which there is in some cases a ' muscle, called by Haller the Levator Glandulce Thyroidece, and by Soemmering, the Musculus Glandidoe 1 hyroidecc. I'he above muscle takes its rise from the base of the Os Hyoides; and its fibres are expanded upon the Thyroid Gland, and by its action may tend to elevate' this Gland. * This is a conglomerate gland, the larger Lobes of which consist of smaller Lobules. This Gland receives its Blood by four large) Arteries, which are derived from the external Carotid, and Subclavian Arteries ; the corres- ponding Veins, which are also of large size, ter- minate in the Jugular and Subclavian Veins.423 OF THE BRONCHIAL GLANDS. Of the Physiology of the Thyroid Gland. A great many opinions have been entertained respecting the use of this Gland, which the reader will find enumerated in the works of Haller and Soemmering. It must be acknowledged that we are still much in the dark as to the use of this Gland. Sect. IV, OF THE BRONCHIAL GLANDS. At the division of the Trachea into its two great branches, there is a number of Glands of a dark purple colour, commonly called Bronchial^ formerly supposed to secrete the dark mucus which is expectorated, but which my Father has proved to belong to the Lymphatic System.mi '"A ■ ' I.-: '"• " ■• •’■•" ,. "■ V'V.irf/tnrr.'Tf'qa v-:, vr Jt'iK’l > ' fi'ii;./ n->j ,, KrT*l:‘j . ■». * . J •• • .« # ■ ' .'. H' ^<> ^ ^ ' r %' iV t‘-"JOi ■•' . :.%"T: ..'7V. 0 . f. *'''•• •■■ ■ •ISVW,' ' % 1 • ^ f- * 1 -V'. • , !• ... V 'pH ■ 'A t j»v 0'i4,<,T •. * 5 .Wi-%- .d WiiD'rf ;'7.-ii/.r y',-rti<,,,., A,7,i,i-Xiiu (.'• V 4 : • J 07 4. {•' “li>tA' wi j : 4 ■ s *4 ‘ V *1 .' t ,1 .‘I ’ :»/1 ■ /r: *1 •» •,'. . ^PART XIV.• • , »/ - . V fl*4t ^L.4 - _• i • * V • ‘ t i'^ ^ ,:»^l>**,■ 4, ^ Tl'.- 1 liJ •*W j : *. 4, > V’ ■f , ...■' ■ . - •■ 1^ . ;VIZ T}f/.4 • •'"*’*7‘"il'l'- • • '. -r , . • . <•■• •' X ' /• *- V ift. yiC ^:v. 7 f^n. ■,'V. . ' ' >• w ^ Ss -, . ' /iVlj i-1- ,,. .>w%w.-><—- ','■ '•.» -- • • • , • ■* ;■ •%. ^ ’ -*■' 4 y . >..'. t ‘ ■ .. ■■ i ' < <^vr'.. ■,»i (' -. f'> s . /• '-V V I ■ < * I * V,’..-I OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE LARYNX. 427 • •• ' • rr L' * . 1 OF THE ORGANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE LARYNX » AllD TRACHEA. • c ; \ Sect. T. INFLAMMATION OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF . . THE TRACHEA. The Mucous Membrane of the Trachea is very susceptible of inflammation, which is either Acute- or Chronic. The latter being the more frequent, first claims our attention. ■ '' A chronic inflammation of the Mucous Mem- brane, the Larynx, and Trachea, is sometimes the- consequence of severe and repeated Catarrh, es- pecially in persons far advanced in life. The Secretion from the Glands is very much increased, and therefore Mucus accumulates with- in the Trachea; this obliges the patient, in or- der to get rid of the oppression at his Chest, and difliculty of breathing, most severe in the morning, to cough repeatedly ; and when the pa- tient is far advanced in life, with such violenceOUTLINES OF AN^ATOMY. 428 as to impede the free return of venous blood from the Head ; and to induce a temporary suspension of the vital faculties. The Mucus ejected by cough- ing is generally of a greenish colour, and frothy, from being mixed with a quantity of air. The preternatural secretion and collection of mucus within the Windpipe, gives rise to a slight degree of difficult breathing, hoarseness, and sore- ness, both in the Chest and along the course of the Windpipe. In such circumstances, the inner membrane of the Windpipe assumes a slight red colour, from its smaller vessels being tinged with blood, which gives an appearance of great vascu- larity. 1 shall next describe the acute inflammation of the internal membrane of the Larynx, which is observed in those who have been cut off by the disease which in this country has commonly been called the Croup, or the Angina Polyposa of Mi- CHAELis, Cynanche Trachealis of Cullen, Cy- nanche Stridula of Crawford, Suffocatio Stridula of Home, Cynanche Laryngea of Eller, and An- gina Inflammatoria Infantum of Russell. In the Larynx and Windpipe of children who have died from the Croup, the internal membrane is found to be redder, thicker, and commonly more soft and spongy, than in its natural state. The openings of the Glandular follicles arc also jnore apparent. There is likewise, on many occasions, the ap-OF THB onCANIC DERANGEMENTS OF THE LARYNX. 4:29 pearance of a preternatural membrane ; which, when the Trachea is opened, is of a light green colour; and by exposure to air, changes to a dirty yellow, and becomes white when put into spirits. The surface of this membrane has a shining appearance, and is covered by a quantity of mucus. This membrane is of various degrees of thick- ness, of different consistence, and of greater or less extent in different instances. I have remarked also, that it is more or less thick in different parts of the Larynx and Tra- chea ; the superior, or upper part, is generally the thickest within the Larynx; and has often .t rough and corrugated surface j whilst the surface of other parts of the membrane is quite smooth. This inflammatory exudation, being on some occasions very tenacious, may be extracted in the form of a tube, retaining the impression of the in- ner membrane and cartilages of the Trachea. Sometimes it is as thin as paper, and breaks, into pieces when slightly touched; sometimes, instead of a membrane, the inner surfaces of the Larynx and Trachea are covered by purulent matter. The preternatural membrane is sometimes soft, pulpy, and perforated by a number of small holes, which probably are formed by the flow of mucus from the mucous ducts. The diseased membrane is most generally found430 OUTLINES OF ANATOMV. xvhere the Windpipe divides into its two greaf branches; it sometimes lines not only the Wind- pipe, but also the smaller branches, and some- times extends into the Cells of the Lungs. The coagulable lymph, in some cases, forms a tube within the trunk of the Windpipe, though in rnany of the smaller branches it is solid, and consequently the air does not reach every part of the Lungs. A similar membrane is sometimes found with- in the Larynx of those who have died of Scarlet Fever; and something analogous to it has been at limes ejected from the Bronchi of phthisical patients. This coagulable lymph is not vascular, and adheres but slightly to the internal Coat of the Windpipe, a quantity of puriform matter being interposed between them. The inflammation, in many cases, is not limit- ed to the internal membrane: It also extends to those muscles which are external to the Larynx and Trachea ; is attended by swelling of the Mus- cles lying over the Larynx ; and hence the La- rynx attains externally a rounded figure. I have also remarked in a few cases, that the Cartilages of the Trachea, when divided, do not appear of the natural whiteness, but are of a deep jmrple colour. The mucous Glands, at the back part of the Trachea, are generally enlarged.THICKENING OF THE CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. 491 The inflammation sometimes extends down the Pharynx, and also into the Oesophagus, which I have observed covered by a thin layer of Lymph. The Lymphatic Glands of the Neck are some- times swollen In consequence of Croup, and also in the Cynanche Maligna. The internal mem- brane of the smaller tubes of the Trachea has been found in a state similar to the membrane of the Larynx or Trachea, in those who have died from Measles or Peripneumony. Of'Thklcening of the Cartilages of the Lai'yna\ I have seen in some cases the Arytenoid and Thyroid Cartilages of the Larynx thickened, and covered by a Scirrhous substance, by which the Glottis was straitened. Of Ossfcation of the Cartilages of the Laryni' and Trachea. The Cartilages of the Larynx, especially the Thyroid, and sometimes even those of the Tra- chea are found ossified. In examining the body of an old man, who had for the last six years of his life been subject to a severe and almost unremitting cough,'! found the Cartilages of the Larynx and Trachea ossified; a considerable quantity of viscid mucus within the Trachea ; and its internal coat thickened, spongy, and red. In such cases, the mobility of the different compo-OUTLINES OP ANAT05lir. 43Z ncnt parts of the Larynx being lessened or de- stroyed, the voice becomes much feebler: And there have been instances, as I have been in- formed by my Father, of these morbid ossifica- tions exfoliating internally, and portions of the bony matter expelled by coughing. Of Ulceration of the Inner Membrane of the Larynx and Trachea, This membrane, as has been already observed, is very subject to inflammation, and sometimes to ulceration, especially in persons of a scrofulous habit, or in such as have been long affected with the Lues Venerea; these ulcerations are most commonly found in the Sacculi Laryngis. There is a preparation in the Edinburgh Mu- seum, of a portion of the Larynx and Trachea, In which the internal membrane was thickened and ulcerated. This was taken from the'body of a woman who died suddenly in a fit of coughing, after having gone through a mercurial course for a Lues Venerea. Ulcers likewise are formed in the Trachea, in consequence of the Cynanche Maligna; and are at times observed in consequence of abscess, or ul- ceration of neighbouring or contiguous parts. Thus 1 have known an abscess, which began in the Oesophagus, penetrate into the Trachea, and suffocate the patient.voj.. II. E e. . ’ OF EXTRANEOUS BODIES IN THE WINDPIPE, &C. 4-S3 Tumours sometimes grow from the posterior part of the Cartilages of the Larynx, and press upon the Rima Glottidis; and these tumours sometimes suppurate internally. Of Extraneous Bodies lodged xcithin the Windpipe. Extraneous bodies, as orange sgeds, pieces of nutshell, or bone, lodging within the Larynx pr Windpipe, give rise to constant cough, and to the expectoration of a great deal of mucus, occasion- ally mixed with pus. They have sometimes pass- ed into the Trachea, and have proved a cause of sudden death. Portions of bone remaining in the Trachea may probably also cause ulceration. Polypi in the Trachea. i The above epithet is .perhaps more applicable to the Polypi of the Trachea, than to similar tu- mours, growing from any other mucous mem- brane, because there are a number of Ramifica- cations connected to these, which are contained in the branches of the Windpipe. This kind of substance, when minutely examin- ed, is found to be merely an inflammatory exuda-OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. 4S4- tion, sometimes only lining the larger branches of the Windpipe, and therefore hollow, though on other occasions, perfectly solid, when con- tained within the smaller ramifications of the Bronchi. . , of Calcareous Substances in the Trachea. These Calcareous substances are commonly found in the smaller branches of the Trachea, and seldom attain a larger size than a pea. A case, however, was sent to me by Mr A. Burns of Glasgow, with nine of the calcareous substances found in the Trachea, which is an ex- ception to the above observation; for, besides twelve or fourteen small concretions found in the Windpipe, about the size of dried beans, there was one of an oblong figure, and of the size of an olive, situated at the division of the Trachea into its two large branches. It may not be improper to add, that the patient was extremely deformed in consequence of the Rickets. - In page 407, the chemical analysis^of one of these substances by Mr John Davy, is given.OF BRONCHOCELE, OR GOITRE. 43 r> Sect. II. • or THE DISEASES OF THOSE PARTSWHICH ARE CONNECTED WITH THE LARYNX AND WINDPIPE. Of Broncliocele, or Goitre. By this term is commonly understood an en- largement of the Thyroid Gland, or a uimour connected with the Thyroid Gland. A Bron- chocele commonly is an indolent and circum- scribed tumour, which increases slowly, does not readily advance to suppuration, and is not attended with pain, or discolouration of the skin. This disease is frequent in the wallies of the Alps, where it may justly be said to be endemic. This disease also occurs in Britain, and is most prevalent in Derbyshire. The tumour frequently resembles the shape of the Gland itself, being divided into two parts j but more commonly one side- is much more swelled than the other. , The diseased Gland, w'hen divided, is generally found to be composed of a nupiber of small cells, which are filled up by a gelatinous fluid j4-36 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. ■ Cuvier Le9ons d’Anat. Corapar. Tome V. p. 415. In Other cases there are only two or three large cells in the Glanci^ which are filled by blood. The Thyroid Gland sometimes attains an un- natural size from inflammation. This is followed byulceration, and the ulcer bears a strong re-‘ semblance to a scrofulous sore. I have also seen two cases of Ossification of the Thyroid Gland. The Thyroid Gland sometimes becomes drop- sical; and this dropsy is sometimes combined with Bronchocele. The Thyroid Gland has, though much more rarely, been found in a scirrhous state, in persons advanced in life, and also in a state of Fungus Haematodes. Authors on the har^jmx. Kemfelin sur le Mechanisme de la Parole, suivi de la Description d’une Machine Pariante. Vienne 1791. Vld. Dodart and Ferrein’s Experiments on the Larynx.AUTHORS ON BRONCHOCELE, &C.' 437 Authors on Bronchocele. Morgagni de Scdib. et Caiisis ^Morb. Epist. SO. Art. 30> Turner’s Surgery. Gooch’s Surgery. Dapeyron Journal de Medecine dii mois de Mars. 1770. Prosser on Bronchocele. London 1782. Wilmer’s Cases and Remarks in Surgery. Haller I Opusc. Pathol. Obs. 5. Girard Traite des Loupes. Reeve on Cretinism. Edinb. Med. and Phys. Jour- nal, Vol. V. PiNEL in his book Sur Alienation Mentale. Foedere Essai sur le Goitre. A. Burns’s Surgical Anatomy of the Plead and J^eck, p. 194. Abscesses Situated on the Larynx. Baillie’s Morbid Anatomy. jV^ONRo De Dysphagia. Authors on the Croup. Dr Starr, Phil. Trans, of London for 1750. Michaelis de Angina Polyposa. Getting. 1778 Crawford, Thomas, Dissert. Med. Inaug. de Cyn- anche Stridula. Edinb. 1771.438 OUTLINES OF ANATOMY. Dr Francis Home de Suffocatione Stridula. Dr Cullen de Cynanche Tracheali. Dr Cheyne on the Croup. END OF THE SECOND VOLUME. J), Willison, rrialety Edinburgh. % 01 J ' ft f . .1^ I % I s- I" I J 4 ■ .i • A tV >r ‘•jr 1 j i€