INJURIES AND DISEASES OK THE S1MNE. 187 ordinary process of cure has taken place, the vertebrae above and below the seat of the disease approximating and uniting. But, together with the angular curvature thus produced, there is a lateral deviation of the axis of the spine, the lumbar vertebrae being placed to the left of the lower dorsal. The spinous processes are removed, to show that notwithstand- ing the angle of bone projecting into the vertebral canal, the space for the medulla spinalis is here greater than either above or below. 37. The lowest two Lumbar Vertebras and the upper part of the Sacrum of a woman who died with lumbar abscess, which communicated with the spinal canal. There are deep ulcera- tions of the anterior part of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, and of the posterior part of the fifth. A similar ulcerated aperture in the upper part of the sacrum opens into the spinal canal. There are several irregular deposits of new bone on the front of the vertebrae and of the body of the sacrum, some of which form bridges extending from one vertebra to another. 38. Bones of the Trunk of an old woman. The dorsal portion of the spine is deeply curved backwards. The dorsal vertebrae are reduced in size anteriorly, but their texture is not distinctly altered. Between the ninth and tenth, there is a deposit of new bone. The antero-posterior diameter of the chest is augmented, and the sternum is much curved forwards, but the height and width of the chest are diminished ; the ribs anterior to the angles being nearly straight, and some of the lower intercostal spaces being almost obliterated. Several of the ribs on both sides seem to have been fractured and re- united. The left half of the pelvis is atrophied, every part of the os innominatum being reduced in size. The head of the left femur is so closely anchylosed to the acetabulum, that they seem to form one bone. The shaft of the femur, which was turned inwards at a right angle with the trunk, was broken off after death. Its tissue, as well as that of the pelvis and ribs, was soft, light, and fragile.