199 INJURIES AND DISEASES OK THE BRAIN, &c. 30. Pituitary Body, considerably enlarged and converted into a uniform, firm, white substance. 31. Portion of Cerebrum through which a bullet passed in the track which is indicated by a piece of glass, and which termi- nates in a rounded cavity, wherein the bullet was lodged. The patient fired two pistols into his mouth. He appeared to suffer but little from the injury, and was able to rise from his bed on the sixth day after the injury. He died with hemorrhage on the twelfth day. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 10, No. 22. 32. Portions of Brain, Skull, and Cerebral Membranes, exhibiting a Hernia Cerebri. The front of the preparation shows a vertical section of the protrusion and of the part of the brain from which it has arisen. In the centre of the protruded brain, which consists of medullary substance, the vessels have given way and blood is effused in it. The portions of the skull and of the membranes of the brain surrounding the base of the protrusion, were included in the section, for the purpose of showing how the protrusion has taken place through the openings formed by ulceration in the dura mater and pia mater, and through the aperture in the bone. 33. Section of the protruded Brain last described. The deep groove which intervenes between the outer part of the pro- truded mass and the portion of brain from which it has arisen, was occupied by the bone and by the membranes of the brain. The patient, a hoy thirteen years old, had extensive fracture of the frontal bone, and several portions of hone were removed without injury of the dura mater. The protrusion of the brain began on the fifth day after the injury, and increased, without disturbance of the intellect or other remarkable symptoms, till the tenth day, when the protruded mass, consisting of healthy cortical and medullary substance, was cut off. For the next ten days the protrusion was rcstnuned by firm pressure; but, insensibility ensuing, the pressure was discon- tinued : the protrusion at once again made progress, and the patient died on the twenty-seventh day after receiving the injury, with softening of the brain The case is published by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Cldrurgkal Tra?isaetions, Vol. vni. p. 22, London, 1817. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 93, No. 125. 34. Portions of Cerebrum, which protruded in a case of Hernia Cerebri, and were removed during life. The patient, a boy eleven years old, had fracture of the frontal bone, several