256 THIRTEENTH SERIES. termination. The aneurism has protruded and burst into the left bronchus. The aorta is generally thickened and dilated. 26. Iliac and Femoral Arteries, with an Aneurism at the com- mencement of the Femoral Artery, for the cure of which the external Iliac has been tied. The sac is large, nearly globular, and in great part filled by laminated coagulum. Upon its lower part, a portion of skin is left, with the aperture through which it burst externally. The ligature was applied about an inch and a quarter above the sac, and it has completely divided the internal coats of the artery. Between the situation of the ligature and the sac there is a small deposit of lymph. Between the situation of the ligature and the division of the common iliac, the artery is completely filled by lymph and coagulated blood. The coats of the artery are, apparently, healthy. The femoral artery, as it passes out of the lower part of the sac, is impervious. The profunda passes out of the middle of the sac, and is pervious. The femoral vein is open above and below the sac, and is obliterated by the pressure of the sac in the mid-space. The anterior crural nerve is connected with the sac, and is flattened by its pressure. The patient was a man seventy years old. The aneurism had existed two years and a half before it burst through the sloughing integuments. The artery was tied directly after the rupture, and the patient lived fifty-five hours. Case- Boole, Vol. i. p. 16, No. 37. 27. Iliac and Femoral Arteries, with an Aneurism at the com- mencement of the Femoral Artery, for the cure of which the external Iliac has been tied. The ligature was applied about half an inch below the division of the common iliac. The upper end of the artery is closed by a small portion of dry clot; its lower end is closed by a conical clot an inch long and closely adherent to its walls. Between these clots is a sub- stance connecting the extremities of the artery divided by the ligature, which substance appeared, in the recent state, to con- sist of the remains -of the sheath of the artery. From the clot below the situation of the ligature, to within a short distance of the sac, the artery is pervious: and from this pervious pari the epigastric and circumflex branches arise. Within that