SIXTEENTH SERIES. 85. Portion of small Intestine, the peritoneal coat of which is occupied by numerous close-set groups of firm, flat, white medullary tumours. They form an uneven nodulated layer, from one to two lines in thickness. The other coats of the intestine appear healthy. 86. Portions of Stomach, Colon, and Great Omentum, from the same patient as the preceding specimen. The peritoneal coats of the stomach and colon are occupied by a similar layer of medullary substance; and in the place of the omentum is a narrow mass, an inch thick, of hard substance coarsely striated, like a congeries of small, firm, medullary tumours. The patient was a woman forty-four years old. She had abdominal pain for six months, and ascites for seven weeks, before death. Paracentesis of the abdo- men was performed four times ; and on the first occasion the fluid drawn from the abdominal cavity coagulated spontaneously. The case is recorded by Dr. Ormerod, in the Lancet, May 2, 1846, p. 504. 87. The lower portion of an Ileum, with part of a Colon, from a patient who died in an early stage of typhus fever. Patches of Peyer's glands at the end of the ileum, and many of the solitary glands in the colon, are much enlarged, soft, and promi- nent above the surrounding surface of the mucous membrane ; but there is scarcely any appearance of ulceration or sloughing. The mesenteric glands also are enlarged and soft. 88. Portion of an Ileum from a more advanced case of typhus fever. Three patches of Peyer's glands are enlarged, and small por- tions have separated by sloughing from their centres. There is also a general enlargement of the solitary glands, which project like little conical papulae from the surface of the mucous membrane. 89. Portion of a Colon, in which there are several small ulcers of the mucous membrane, remaining after the separation of sloughs in a case of typhus fever. The bases of the ulcers are formed by the circular muscular fibres of the intestine, which appears healthy; their margins are formed by thin portions of mucous membrane overhanging their bases. The intervening mucous membrane and other tissues appear healthy.