TWKU'TII SERIES. 240 inches in diameter, a portion of which is turned downwards. The cyst projects into the lower part of the right ventricle, and gives a rounded form to the apex of the heart. The patient was a woman forty years old. Her health had appeared declining for some years; and about eighteen months before her death she began to have dyspncea on exertion and occasional pain at the heart. Six weeks before death more severe signs of disease of the heart were brought on by an unusual exertion, and these continued and were aggravated till she died. The case is related by Mr. Evans, and the preparation is engraved, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transac- tions, Vol. xvii. p. 507, London, 1832. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 59, No. 105. Presented by Herbert Evans, Esq. 41. Part of the Heart of the young Woman from whom the melanotic eye in Series IX. No. 18 was extirpated. It presents several small round masses of melanotic substance im- bedded in the muscular substance, and one projecting into the cavity of the left ventricle. 42. Portion of an Aorta, exhibiting a large oval mass of fibrine mixed with earthy matter upon each of its semilunar valves. Below and behind one of the valves there is a small circum- scribed pouch, into which a piece of glass is introduced. It is smoothly lined by a prolongation of the internal lining of the heart. From a girl eighteen years old. Presented by P. C. Delagarde, Esq. 43. A Heart and Pericardium, from a child nine years old. The ex- ternal portion of the pericardium is greatly dilated and thickened, and there is an abundant deposit of lymph upon its internal sur- face, as well as upon that of the pericardium covering the heart. At the lower part of the bottle is a large mass of lymph, which was loose in the pericardium. Besides lymph, the pericardium contained two pints of turbid serous fluid. Presented by Dr. Moore. 44. A Heart, exhibiting thickening, opacity, and rigidity of the tricuspid and mitral valves, with contraction of both the auriculo-ventricular orifices. The cavities of the auricles are dilated, and their membranous linings are thickened. The right auriculo-ventricular orifice would just admit the passage