121 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 23. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting fracture of the neck of the Femur. The fracture extends vertically through the neck just beyond the base of the head. The capsule is much thickened, and the neck of the femur is absorbed. 24. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the head of the Femur with elongation of the capsule. The capsule is entire, and measures, now that it is laid open, between four and five inches in length. The cavity of the acetabulum has almost disappeared, being both reduced in size and filled by fibrous tissue. The ligamentum teres is absent, and a portion of the head of the femur has been absorbed. The capsule around the neck of the femur presents a fringe of slender growths. The specimen is figured in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xxiv. PI. iv., fig. 1, London, 1841 : in illustration of a paper by Mr. Stanley, " On Dis- locations, accompanied by Elongations of the Ligaments." 25. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting a recent dislocation of the head of the Femur on the lower edge of the obturator externus muscle. The ligamentum teres is torn from its attachment to the head of the femur. The capsule is extensively lacerated at the inner side and lower part of the joint. The obturator externus muscle is lacerated where the femur rest partly on it and partly on the subjacent obturator ligament. 26. A Patella, with a small piece of bone, which had probably been broken off, and is now connected by ligament with its lateral border. 27. Portion of a Skull, exhibiting a fracture through the posterior part of the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The fracture was occasioned by the passage of an iron rod through the orbit into the brain. 28. Two Patellae from the same person. Both bones have been fractured transversely. The fractured portions of each, having been separated to a distance of five inches from each other, are connected only by a thin fibrous membrane. The fragments are all, but not equally, enlarged. 29. Section of a Patella which has been fractured into three pieces.