15 DISEASES OK BONE. wall around the dead portions of bone is extensively ulcerated, and around this ulcerated part new bone has been abundantly formed. In the medullary tissue lymph has been formed, and in one situation it is nearly consolidated by bone. 52. Section of a Femur from the same limb as the preceding speci- men. The medullary tissue is similarly diseased. An irregular deposit of new bone has taken place upon its external surface. In some situations this deposit appeared to be connected only with the periosteum, and could be separated with it from the bone; in others, it appeared to arise from the bone itself. From a boy fourteen years old, who without any evident cause was attacked with severe pain in the leg and thigh; the whole limb became cedematous, ex- tensive suppuration ensued, and he died hectic. Case Book, vol. i. p. 2, No. 5. 53. Section of a Tibia, exhibiting great increase of thickness in its walls, with narrowing of the medullary tube, and consolida- tion of the medullary texture by thickening of the cancelli. The periosteum is detached, showing its thickened state upon the diseased part of the bone. The other section is in the next Sub-series, A, 19. 54. A Portion of the Skull-Cap of a Chili which is very much thickened, and so soft in its texture as to be easily divisible by a knife. It has throughout an appearance of great vascularity ; and the soft parts covering it had the aspect of a naevus. This state existed from the birth of the child, and extended over the left side of the head and face and the left arm and shoulder. Presented by William Kingdon, Esq. Case Book, vol. i. p. 15, No. 34. 55. A Section of four Dorsal and Lumbar Vertebras, the bodies of which have been deeply hollowed out by absorption conse- quent on the pressure of an aneurism of the aorta. The surface of bone formed part of the aneurismal sac, and layers of fibrine still adhere to it. It will be observed, that the fibro-cartilaees and contiguous edges of the bones are entire. 56. Sections of the Bones of an Elbow-Joint. Their articular ends are enlarged and ulcerated. The enlargement of the bones, which is greatest on the ulna, does not depend upon an addition