DISEASES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. 217 dullary substance, with blotches of effused blood. The eye and optic nerve are imbedded in the centre of the tumour, and are themselves so filled with medullary substance, that no portion of the natural structure of the eye, except the sclerotica, can be distinguished. 5. An Eye, from which all the natural structures have disappeared, giving place to a mass of whitish medullary matter. The recti muscles are connected with the upper part of this mass. The skull of the same patient, a young person, is preserved in Series XXXV. 6. Section of a Tumour, which was removed with the Eye of an adult. The tumour consists of a mass of soft, greyish, and, apparently, medullary substance, some of which is within the globe, but the greater part, having protruded through the sclerotica, has enlarged and extended round the exterior of the globe. Portions of the choroid membrane and retina may be discerned, apparently unchanged. The retina is reflected over that part of the tumour which is within the globe, indicating that the tumour grew between the retina and choroid. The woman from whom this specimen was taken, lived for nineteen years after the operation, and the disease did not return. Part of her skull is No. 14 in this Series. ' 7. Sections of a large lobulated Tumour, which was removed from the cavity of the left orbit of an adult; with a portion of Brain, from the same individual. To the upper part of the sections of the tumour is attached the posterior half of the eye-ball: this is filled by a substance similar to that of the tumour, so that it may be assumed that the tumour began to grow within the eye and protruded through its anterior part. The tumour is, throughout, soft and brain-like in its texture; parts of it are nearly white, and parts are intensely black. It appears also to have been very vascular. In the lower part of the bottle is a portion of the tumour which was extracted from the back part of the orbit: it consists of the same substance as that already described. The optic nerves are connected with the portion of brain; the left nerve has some of the medullary and melanotic