DISEASES OP JOINTS. 91 New bone, in hard irregular nodules, is formed around the margin of the head, and on the neck of the femur. o From the man from whom the specimens of medullary disease of the ilium, in the preceding Scries, Nos. 235 to 238, were taken. i). A Patella, from which nearly all the articular cartilage has been removed by ulceration. The ulceration appears to have extended from the free surface towards the bone ; the margins of the remaining peripheral part of the cartilage are either abrupt and smooth, as if cut with a curved chisel, or, in parts, thinly prolonged over the surface of the bone. All the cartilage that remains has retained its natural firm connexion with the bone. The part of the surface of the patella which is exposed by the ulceration of the cartilage is itself superficially ulcerated and covered by lymph. 10. An Os Calcis and Astragalus, (probably from a gouty person), the articular surfaces of which are uniformly covered by thin deposit of white earthy matter, consisting princi- pally of carbonate of lime. The cartilages themselves are thin. 11. A Patella, the cartilage of which is similarly whitened by the deposit of earthy matter. It appears, also, thickened and nodular. The two preceding specimens were taken from a man between forty and fifty years old. Nearly all the joints in the body were in a similar state : in some, a portion of the white substance was in a fluid state ; and around some there was a similar deposit in the adjacent tissues. Case Book, Vol. i. p. 3, No. 10. 12. An Elbow-Joint, in which, probably by chronic inflammation, the synovial membrane is converted into a light brown sub- stance, of a firm texture, about half or three quarters of an inch in thickness, with white lines running through it in various directions, and with a soft smooth surface. The morbid change terminates at the margins of the articular cartilages. Around the neck of the radius, the thickened synovial membrane forms a fold projecting into the cavity of the joint. The cartilages and bones of the joint appear healthy. The patient was a man sixty years old, and the disease had existed fifteen