DISEASES OF THE HEART, &c. 243 various and singular attacks of paralysis, erysipelas, and signs of phlebitis. Case- Book, Vol. i. p. 160, No. 186. 54. A Heart and large Vessels, with the Trachea, and a portion of the left Lung, from a child six years old. An irregular rent extends through the whole length and thickness of the posterior wall of the left ventricle and auricle. A similar laceration extends through the upper part of the anterior wall of the left ventricle, and through the adjacent part of the septum. The left bronchus is torn across near the root of the lung. These injuries were the results of the passage of a heavy wheel over the chest of the child. Some of the ribs were fractured, but the pericardium was not torn. General emphysema was produced by the escape of air from the ruptured bronchus. 55. A Heart, in which there are but two pulmonary semilunar Valves, and both of these are covered with thick irregular layers of soft fibrine or lymph, which is deposited in such quantity on the posterior valve, that it forms a layer extending quite across the artery. On the internal wall of the artery there are several small wart-like bodies, which are firmly adherent to it; and be- hind the posterior valve, there is a circumscribed ulceration of the inner membrane. The rest of the heart, its other valves, and the large vessels, are healthy. The patient was a girl twenty-one years old, admitted in a state of ex- treme debility. She had violent palpitation of the heart; and a loud bellows- sound, accompanying the first sound of the heart, was heard most distinctly at the base and m a lmc extending thence upwards and to the left. She died exhausted • with old coagula, filling many of the branches of the pulmonary artery, and with pulmonary apoplexy, of which specimens are preserved in Series XIV No 8 The case is related by Mr. Paget, in the Medm-GHrrngM Transactions', Vol. xxvn. p. 182, London, 1844. 56. A Heart and Pericardium, from a child fifteen months old. Both the layers of pericardium are covered by a thick coatino- of soft lymph. The lymph on the heart has a coarsely reticulat surface; that on the external portion of pericardium is in a thinner and smoother layer; and the two are connected at the base of the heart, by several columns of lymph passing from the one to the other. Presented by Dr. West. R 2