206 SIXTH SERIES. 66. The Cyst of a large circumscribed Abscess, removed froin one of the middle lobes of a cerebrum. Its internal surface is smooth, and lined by lymph, of which some has been turned off in a layer; its external surface is covered by shreds and flocculi from the adjacent cerebral substance; its walls are moderately tough and about half a line in thickness. The patient was a middle-aged man, and had had only some slight and ohscure signs of disease of the brain. 67. A left middle Cerebral Artery, with a small aneurism on one side of its trunk. The aneurism lay very deep in the fissura Sylvii, nearly imbedded in the adjacent cerebral convolutions, and it burst into the substance of the brain by the irregular rent which is indicated by the bristle. A part of its cavity is filled by a firm decolorized layer of coagulated blood. 68. A Clot of Blood, weighing between four and five ounces, which was effused from the aneurism last described into the substance of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum. The patient was a footman thirty-eight years old. He had suffered from occa- sional giddiness, ringing in the ears, and other slight signs of disease of the brain ; and had enlargement, with disease of the valves, of the heart; but he had been engaged in his work till the day before his death, when, while leaning over the side of his bed, he suddenly became insensible, and in a few minutes died. There is a drawing of the brain with the clot in its recent state. 69. The Brain of a giddy Sheep, with part of its skull, and an Hydatid (Ccenurus cerebralis) which was contained in the left cerebral hemisphere. The greater part of the substance of the hemisphere has been removed or distended around the hydatid, and the whole thickness of the superjacent portion of the skull is in several places absorbed. 70. An Hydatid (Ccenurus cerebralis) from the Brain of a giddy Sheep. Minute white pearly bodies are attached in groups to many parts of the interior of the cyst. 71. Part of the Parietal Bone of an Infant, with Internal Cephalhe- matoma, i.e. an effusion of blood between the skull and dura mater. This effusion, as well as a similar effusion between the skull and the pericranium, appeared to have proceeded (at