119 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 14. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting fracture of its neck and shaft . Two distinct lines of fracture may be traced, one across the base of the neck, the other passing obliquely through the shaft just in front of, and below, the trochanter major, and through the trochanter minor. The base of the neck is fixed between the fragments, but not tightly. 15. Portion of a Femur, in which, as in the last described, there is a fracture through the base of the neck and the upper part of the shaft. One line of fracture passes vertically through the base of the neck; the other extends vertically through the middle of the great trochanter and for about three inches down the shaft, and through the trochanter minor. The head is impacted between the fragments, and osseous union has taken place in the lower part of the vertical fracture. 16. Portion of a Femur, in which there is fracture of its neck and shaft. The fracture runs obliquely through the base of the neck ; it also extends in several directions through the adjacent parts of the shaft, separating some small portions of it. The trochanters are entire. 17. Portion of a Femur, in which fracture of the neck occurred many years before death. There has been complete absorption of the neck of the bone. The surfaces of the head and of the space between the trochanters which have been in contact, and which probably moved freely on each other, are very hard, polished, and ivory-like. 18. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting a fracture through its neck, just beyond the base of the head. The direction of the fracture is such, that the surface of the bone exhibits on the one side an eminence, and on the other a corresponding cavity. The periosteum and the synovial membrane covering the neck are torn in only the anterior half of its circumference: upon the other half, the membranes are entire and still connect the two parts of the bone, which may thus, as well as by the mutual adaptation of the uneven surfaces of the fracture, have been held together with very little displacement.