TWELFTH SERIFS. 246 an inch high, and half an inch wide: its orifice on the ven- tricular surface of the valve, is about a quarter of an inch in diameter. It has burst by a large irregular rent in one of its lateral walls. The aortic valves have numerous warty growths on their outer surface and borders ; but are otherwise healthy. 63. Part of an exceedingly large Heart. There are only two pulmonary and two aortic valves, but they are all of large size. The tricuspid and pulmonary valves present some opaque thickening of their tissue, but are pliant and free. The mitral valve is thick, opaque, and very tough ; its tendinous chords also are thickened. The aortic valves are thickened, indurated, contracted, and made completely rigid by masses of coarsely granular earthy matter deposited in and upon them. The whole heart is enlarged, but its several parts are increased in nearly proportionate degrees. The pulmonary artery and the aorta also are very large : but both their tissue and that of the heart appear healthy. The patient was thirty years old. He had acute rheumatism fifteen years before death. He had dyspnoea on exertion during the last year of his life, and in the last week he suffered extremely from it; but he had no anasarca except in his last three days. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 190, No. 210. 64. Part of an Aorta, with only two Valves, both of which, like those in the specimen last described, are made completely rigid, by the thickening and induration of their tissue, and by the abundant deposit of earthy matter. One of the masses of earthy matter is cut open: its interior is dark, soft, and broken down, looking like a cavity in a carious tooth. The aortic orifice is reduced to a narrow crescentic fissure between the two valves. Presented by F. H. Colt, Esq. 65. A Heart, in which there are imbedded, in the middle of the posterior wall of the left ventricle, several small masses of a yellowish firm substance. Some of them are prominent in the cavity of the ventricle; but the largest, which is darker and firmer than the others, projects externally, and is situated at the bottom of a recess in the wall of the heart, like the sac of an aneurism. The muscular substance of the heart is wasted