DISEASES OF THE LUNGS, &c. 289 character which it had in the recent state: and is throughout of a pale, dirty white colour, mottled with numerous spots of black deposit. On its cut surface it presents the appearance of numerous very minute bodies like white seeds or grains, not more than one-sixth or one-eighth of a line in length, which are thickly scattered throughout the consolidated substance; but the surface of the section has no generally granulated ap- pearance. From a man forty-eight years old. The signs of pneumonia had existed nearly five weeks. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 190, No. 211. 45. Sections of the upper lobe of the Lung of a child, consolidated by inflammation. The surfaces of the sections are minutely °ra- nular, of a pale dirty yellowish white colour, except in two or three places where there are traces of effused blood, and in those parts in which spots of black matter have been deposited. Some of the branches of the pulmonary arteries are blocked up by fibrine. There are some thin deposits of firm lymph upon the surface of the pleura covering the upper section. 46. Section of a Lung, of which the whole of the lower lobe is of a pale, but rather bright, yellow colour, from the infiltration of pus. The infiltrated tissue was heavy, but soft and easily broken: and the surface of the section has no distinctly gra- nular aspect. 47. Section of a Lung, the tissue of which is solid, heavy, and of a pale yellowish white colour, from uniform infiltration of tuberculous matter. Its pleural surface is covered by a thin layer of tough false membrane with small tubercles scattered m it. 48. Portion of a Lung, in which the main division of the pulmonary artery is nearly filled by a firm, grumous, brown and red clot of blood, slightly adhering to its walls, and having all the cha- racters of a clot formed before death. At its distal end the clot div.des into four portions, which extend into and nearly fill as many branches of the pulmonary artery in which it lies. One of these portions is intimately united to the wall of the arterial branch in which it is contained. u