25] INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 4. A Popliteal Artery, in which the internal coat is thickened, wrinkled, and the seat of abundant earthy deposit. A portion of it, an inch in length, is obliterated. 5. Part of an Abdominal Aorta, with the right Renal Artery obliterated by deposits of earthy matter filling its cavity. The internal coat of the aorta is thickened. From the same diabetic patient as No. 3 in this Series, and Nos. 16, 26 in Series XVI. The kidney to which this renal artery belonged was of full size, and its pelvis contained urine. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 21, No. 45. 6. Part of the Aorta of a Dog, exhibiting the effects of a ligature applied twenty-four hours before death. The inner and middle coats of the artery are partially divided, and above the seat of the ligature is a conical coagulum, which appears laminated and is loosely attached to the walls of the artery. 7. Sections of an Aneurismal Sac, which was situated on the Abdo- minal Aorta, immediately below the superior mesenteric artery. The cceliac and superior mesenteric arteries are obliterated at their origins. The sac is completely filled by firm laminated coagulum. The coats of the aorta are thickened and opaque. From a man forty-five years old, who died from rupture of the dilated aorta in No. 9. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 14, No. 32. 8. The Arch and Thoracic portion of an Aorta uniformly dilated. The coats of the artery are generally thickened and indurated. Earthy matter is deposited in them, and their inner surface is irregularly tuberculated, and appears ulcerated at many points. 9. A Heart, with an Aneurism extending from the commencement to the termination of the arch of the aorta. The sac is of immense size ; its lower part is formed by the dilated aorta ; but at the upper part its walls are apparently formed by con- densed cellular tissue, and exhibit small laminated deposits of fibrine upon their inner surface. The front and upper part of the sac has been turned upwards, with three ribs belonging if) the right side of the chest, and a part of the sternum, closely