FIRST XKRIKS: SI' ! jUKS A. 33. Portion of a Skull-Cap increased in thickness, and all, except the surfaces of the tables, converted into a uniform, spongy, or porous tissue, apparently by a slighter degree of the same disease as is shown in No. 36 in the preceding Series. There is the cicatrix of an ulcer on the middle of the frontal bone. 34. Parts of a Tibia, Clavicle, Humerus, and Skull, from a man who died with syphilis. The shaft of the tibia is enlarged by the expansion of its walls and by external formation of new bone. In one part, the walls and the new bone covering them are penetrated by small irregular ulcers. The same disease has affected the middle of the clavicle ; and in it the ulceration has extended so far that a slight force broke the remaining portion of its shaft. In the humerus the lower half of the shaft is thickly covered by light and porous new bone, through which many ulcers of various size have pene- trated ; some of these extend deep into the original wall of the humerus, portions of which also appear to have suffered necrosis. In the skull the outer tables of the frontal and right parietal bone present an uneven tuberculated surface, seamed and starred, like the surface of confluent small blisters ; through this, numerous distinct and coalescing ulcers penetrate, and reaching the diploe spread therein in wider spaces, and in a few instances pass also through the inner table. The outer table of the left parietal bone is tubercu- lated but not ulcerated. There is a similar but less extensive disease on the inner table of the right parietal and occipital bones. ,.35. The Skull, Femur, and Bones of the right upper extremity of a man who died with syphilis. They present, in a less advanced form, similar appearances to those last described. The tuberculated character which the outer table of the skull assumes, previous to its ulceration, is shown on the upper part of the frontal bone; and the stages in the progress of the little ulcers which penetrate and spread through the new bone, maybe traced on the clavicles in which the process has just begun, and on the radius and humerus on which it is more advanced ; while on the femur, whose shaft like theirs is