INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. with the sac is quite pervious, and a large hranch arises from it which divides into the infra-scapular and circumflex arteries. The axillary vein is connected with the sac, and is pervious. The coats of the subclavian artery above the situation of the ligature were so brittle that they yielded to the slightest force. The patient was a man thirty-eight years old. The aneurism appeared to have existed four months, and was first observed six months after an attack of acute rheumatism. He died after repeated hemorrhages, on the thirteenth day from the application of the ligature. The case is described by Mr. Charles Mayo, in the Medieo-Cldrurgical Transactions, Vol. xii. p. 12. London, 1823. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 115, No. 141. Presented by Charles Mayo, Esq. 22. Portion of a Femoral Artery, exhibiting the obliteration of its trunk and of the commencement of the Profunda, by the deposit of fibrine in concentric layers forming a firm clot about an inch in length. The arterial coats appear healthy. Prom a young man who died with disease of the aortic valves. Some time before his death, the limb from which this artery was taken became, without any evident cause, pulseless and cold. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 21, No. 46. 23. A Femoral Artery, upon which a ligature was placed a con- siderable time before death. The canal of the artery above and below the obliterated part is gradually contracted into a conical form as it approaches that part. The upper and lower portions of the vessel are connected by condensed cellular tissue. For some way above and below the obliterated part, the coats of the artery are thickened, and in the upper portion a dry clot of blood is firmly adherent to the walls. 24. A Popliteal Artery, with a diffused Aneurism. There appears to have been a complete rupture of the whole circumference of the artery, so that the sac is formed entirely by the surrounding cellular tissue. Above and below the aneurism, the artery appears to be healthy; its coats terminate abruptly at the boundaries of the sac. The sac is almost filled by laminated coagulum. The popliteal vein is pervious, but flattened by the pressure of the sac. 25. The Arch of an Aorta, with a small Aneurism arising from its