INJUR IKS OF MONKS A NO JOINTS. 12U t adherent to the head of the humerus : a portion of it in shreds remains attached to the edge of the glenoid cavity. 60. The other Shoulder-Joint of the person from whom the pre- ceding specimen was taken. The capsule is thickened. The tendon of the biceps, separated from the glenoid cavity, has become firmly adherent to the head of the humerus, and an irregular nodulated deposit of bone has taken place around the part to which it is now attached. It is presumed that the alterations in these joints were the effects of external injury; probahly, of dislocation of the humerus. 61. Bones of the first and second phalanx of a Great Toe. The bone of the second phalanx is dislocated, and firmly united by bone to the upper surface of the first phalanx. 62. Portion of an Os Innominatum, exhibiting united fracture, with absorption of bone, in the bottom of the acetabulum. The fracture extended in several directions from the centre of the acetabulum to its circumference. The fracture was caused by a fall on the trochanter major a few months before death. 63. A Skull-Cap, in which fracture with loss of bone was produced by the wheel of a cart passing over the head several years before death. The frontal and right parietal bones were broken into many pieces; and the sagittal and coronal sutures were separated. Several portions of bone, which were insulated by the fracture, were removed, leaving numerous and considerable apertures in the skull; other insulated portions are thinned by absorption, but their edges are reunited by osseous substance. Considerable thickening of the frontal bone has taken place in one situation contiguous to the fracture. No new bone appears to have been formed in the spaces left after the removal of the loose fragments. 64. Section of a Sternum, exhibiting a dislocation between its first and second bones. The two bones overlap considerably, the first projecting in front of the second. The contiguous peri- osteal surfaces are firmly united. There is also a deposit K