54 FIRST SERIES. the common iliac artery was therefore tied. The patient died on the third day after the operation with suppuration in the track of the wound. The case is recorded by Mr. Stanley in the Medico-Cliirurgical Transactions, Vol. xxviii., p. 317; London, 1845. 242. Sections of a Tibia, of which a portion of the cancellous tissue near its lower end has suffered Necrosis and been separated. The sequestrum lay loose in a cavity lined by thin organized membrane. In one of the sections the half of the seques- trum is retained in its place ; in the other, it has been removed to expose the interior of the cavity. The walls of the bone around the cavity are slightly enlarged, and there are two ulcerated apertures extending through them : but their texture, as well as that of the periosteum, is nearly healthy. There is also a wide ulcerated aperture through the articular surface of the bone, and nearly the whole of its cartilage is removed. From a boy seven years old, in whom the disease, arising from no evident cause, had existed for some years. Numerous abscesses about the ankle made amputation necessary. Presented by Joseph Hodgson, Esq. 243. An Os Calcis, in which there was Necrosis of a portion of the cancellous tissue. After the separation of the sequestrum, abscesses formed in and around the bone, and there was abundant deposit of new bone upon its surface. Ulceration also extended through the superior articular surface of the os calcis; and anchylosis between it and the astragalus followed. From a man twenty-two years old. The disease commenced shortly after a rusty nail had been driven into the heel, piercing the bone. The patient re- covered after the amputation of the foot. 244. The anterior surface of a Patella, which exfoliated after an in- jury to the front of the knee. 245. Sections of a small Tumour from the Tibia. Its base is narrow, and consists of cancellous bone with medulla: and this is covered by a layer of cartilage from a quarter of an inch to half an inch in thickness. Presented by Joseph Hodgson, Esq. 246. Sections of a Cuneiform Bone necrosed and separated. Its tissue is of a greenish colour by infiltration of pus. Its arti- cular surfaces are superficially ulcerated. The disease was of long standing, and the soft parts about the tarsus were tho