259 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. deposit of lymph upon its inner surface. That part of the inner membrane of the vein which is exposed is of a dark red colour. The branches of the vein are filled by firm coagula. These veins were taken from the left lower extremity of a man who had compound fracture of the right thigh. He died a month after the injury, with obscure signs of phlebitis. The remaining cavities of the veins were full of pus; but no other veins were diseased. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 54, No. 95. 35. Parts of a Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The extremity of the artery is closed by a conical clot, which extends up the vessel to the origin of the nearest branch. The base of this clot is united to the extremity of the artery. The extremity of the vein is closed by a similar but smaller clot. The coats of the artery and vein are thickened and closely united to the surrounding parts. 36. Parts of a Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The extremity of the artery is closed by the adhesion of its sides, but there is no clot within it. The extremity of the vein is open, and lymph is deposited upon its internal surface. 37. Parts of a Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The extremity of the artery is open ; but its canal is filled to some distance by a coagulum, which adhered firmly to its coats. The extremity of the vein is closed, and there is a deposit of lymph upon its inner surface. 38. Parts of a Femoral Artery and Vein, from a Stump. The extremities of both the artery and the vein are closed, and intimately connected with the surrounding tissues. Both of them also have coagula above their closed extremities. 39. Part of an Aorta, with an Aneurism at the commencement of the Arch. The sac has extended forwards through the sternum and ribs on each side, and, elevating the pectoral muscles, has formed a large tumour upon the chest. A portion of skin attached to the front of the tumour indicates, by its white appearance, that the process of sloughing had commenced in Ml centre. The sac, in its progress towards the sternum, has s 2