303 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF INTESTINES, &c. 5. A large mass of Morbid Structure, which occupied the situation of the Mesenteric Glands. It is composed of a cluster of distinct tumours, of a soft, reddish-brown, vascular, and spongy medullary substance. From the same patient as No. 6 in Scries XVIII., and No. 40 in Scries XXVIII. 6. Portion of small Intestine, with thick-set clusters of miliary tubercles in its peritoneal coat. The peritoneum is generally thickened, and many of the convolutions of the intestine are adherent. 7. Portion of Jejunum and two portions of Ileum. In each por- tion of intestine there is a circular constriction by which the canal is almost completely closed. At each of the con- stricted parts a deep irregular ulcer extends in a narrow band round the whole circumference of the mucous membrane. Above each of them, the intestine is widely dilated, its coats are generally thickened, and the muscular coat especially ap- pears hypertrophied. The patient, a woman thirty-seven years old, suffered for three years before death with attacks of constipation and severe pain in the abdomen. The stric- tures were about two feet distant from each other; and there was another besides the three here shown. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 32, No. 69. Presented by John Bury, Esq. 8. Portion of an Ileum. The Peyer's and solitary glands and the villi are of unusually large size and very numerous. From a patient who died with Asiatic cholera. 9. Portion of small Intestine, exhibiting the results of chronic peritonitis. Two of its convolutions are closely united, and are enveloped by shreddy membrane formed of recently organized lymph. In the substance of the false membrane, as well as in the peritoneum, there are numerous miliary tubercles. 0. Portion of the Transverse Arch of a Colon, having a large tumour attached to it. The tumour occupies the place of the natural structure of the omentum, and appears to be formed by the agglutination of many small and round masses of a firm texture.