8 FIRST SERIES. which has perished. The inner surface of this new bone is covered by vascular granulations. The walls of the bone perished after inflammation of the periosteum produced by the application of nitric acid to a sloughing ulcer in the front of the leg. 20. Portion of a Tibia from a compound fracture, exhibiting the changes in the periosteum and bone preparatory to the exfolia- tion of the fractured extremity. The periosteum is thickened and appeared very vascular, and granulations have grown from its torn margin ; a portion of it is detached and turned back, to show parts of the subjacent bone in a higher state of vascularity than is natural. Part of the extremity of the bone has acquired the peculiar white colour of dead bone. 21. Portion of a Tibia from a compound fracture, exhibiting a somewhat later stage in the process of exfoliation of the broken extremity of the bone. The dead bone is distinguishable from the living by its peculiar whiteness; and its separation has been begun by the formation of a superficial groove in the ad- jacent margins of the living bone. Granulations have arisen from the exposed medulla. 22. Section of a Femur, and of part of a large Fibrous Tumour which closely surrounds it. The tumour exhibits various textures. The great part of it consists of a pale, whitish, firm substance, traversed by fibres and mixed with spicula of bone; but in some parts its texture is much softer, and it has numerous small thin walled cells or cysts imbedded in it. The texture of the bone itself is natural, except that its external surface is rough and deprived of periosteum, as if that membrane were involved in the tumour. Cast of the Limb from which this tumour was taken,—No. 1. The tumour had grown rapidly but without much pain : and the patient recovered after the amputation of the limb. 23. The front of the Lower Jaw of a Child, which was removed by operation, on account of a tumour arising in the cancellous texture of the bone, and thence protruding into the mouth. In the progress of the operation, the front of the jaw separated into an upper and a lower portion. With the upper portion