20 FIRST SERIES. There is a small aperture in one side of the cavity, which pene- trates the wall of the bone; but, with this exception, the bone around the cavity appears healthy, and the joint is not implicated. 83. A section of the upper part of a Tibia, and of a large Medullary Tumour which has formed within it. The tumour consists partly of a soft, brown, fibrous-looking substance, and partly of coagulated blood; and there are some small cysts in it. A thin crust of the expanded walls of the bone surrounds the tumour. Upon the upper part of the tumour, in the situation of the articular surface of the tibia, there is a deep excavation which lodged one of the condyles of the femur. The diseased structure appears to have originated in the cancellous tissue of the head of the tibia, and is exactly circumscribed ; the shaft below it is healthy. 84. A section of the lower part of a Femur, the cancellous tissue of which is filled by a pale brownish, flocculent, and shreddy, medul- lary substance. The walls of the bone and the cartilage are sound, except at the posterior part of one of the condyles, where they are absorbed; and the morbid growth protruding from within the bone is connected with several similar medullary tumours formed around the bone. 85. Section of a Molar Tooth, and of a small, nodulated, hard, ivory-like, bony Tumour, which has grown from the base of the crown and from one of the fangs. 86 Portions of a Humerus with which a Tumour is connected, which apparently originated in the bone. The greater part of the body of the humerus has disappeared. The tumour connecting the remaining portions of the bone consists of soft pale sub- stance of gelatinous aspect, in the centre of which is a large cavity which contained a thick serous fluid. The brachial artery and nerves are attached to the exterior of the tumour, but they are healthy. The tumour had a constant and regular pulsation, which ceased on compression of the subclavian artery, but the cause of which was not discovered in the exami- nation of the limb. The patient was an old woman.