INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. Medico-Chvrurgical Transactions, Vol. xvii. p. 58. London, 1832. 64. The Bones of a Hip-Joint. A fracture extends in several directions through the os innominatum. The fracture through the bottom of the acetabulum permitted the head of the femur to sink into the cavity of the pelvis. These injuries were the effects of a fall from a considerable height. 65. The Bones of an Elbow-Joint, exhibiting a recent fracture of the lower part of the olecranon, extending to the interior of the joint. 66. Bones of an Ankle-Joint, exhibiting a double fracture of the internal malleolus, separating it from the tibia, and splitting it into two portions. 67. Portion of a Femur, in which a fracture is believed to have occurred, many years before death, through the base of its neck. The fracture (if one happened) has been completely repaired; for its direction is not indicated by any line in the cancellous texture. Presented by F. Salmon, Esq. 68. A Clavicle, which has been fractured obliquely near the middle of its shaft. The fracture has united, with scarcely any irregularity of the surface of the bone. 69. A Foot, with parts of the Tibia and Fibula, exhibiting the effects of dislocation and fracture ten months before death. The tibia is dislocated inwards, and partially separated from the fibula: the internal malleolus projects an inch on the inner side of the astragalus. The astragalus also is partially separated from the navicular bone. The fibula has been broken into several portions just above the malleolus. These portions are firmly re-united, and there is an accumulation of bone both before and behind the articulation between the tibia and the fibula. The patient was alunatic forty years old. The dislocation wasnotreduced till a month after its occurrence, and the patient's restlessness prevented the tibia from being maintained in its proper place; but he finally regained complete use and power of the foot. The case is described by Mr. Lawrence in the