-20 I SIXTH SERIES. subjacent Dura Mater. There is a large aperture formed by ulceration through the skull and the dura mater, both above and below the tentorium cerebelli. The edges of the ulcer, both in the bone and in the dura mater, are covered by granu- lations. From a woman fifty years old. The disease commenced with what was regarded as carcinoma of the scalp, which, having passed into the stage of ulce- ration, slowly spread through the skull and dura mater to the brain. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 176. No. 200. 58. Frontal Bone, with the subjacent Dura Mater. Several soft medullary tumours have been formed on the external surface of the dura mater. Many of them are imbedded in the skull; and one, of large size, having produced the complete absorp- tion of the bone, has passed to the outside of the skull, where it is connected with a similar large mass between the bone and the pericranium. The bone itself is of very dense texture. 59. Two middle Cerebral Arteries, from the same patient. The trunk of that of the right side is partially dilated into a small bilobed aneurismal sac, which is nearly filled by a coagulum of pale fibrine. The trunk of the left artery is ruptured, at a point nearly corresponding to that from which the aneurism has arisen on the opposite side. The rupture, into which a bristle is passed, extends through all the coats of the artery, and in an irregular line round more than half its wall. There are several small deposits of fatty substance in the walls of the arteries. From a woman eighty-four years old, who died twenty-two hours after an attack of apoplexy. A copious effusion of blood had taken place from the rup- tured artery, into the substance and membranes of the base of the brain. Case- Book, Vol. i. p. 178. No. 202. 60. The right half of a Cerebrum. In its centre there is a cavity, in which a large acephalocyst hydatid was contained. The cavity is lined by a thin false membrane. It is much reduced in size by the contraction of the brain : the apertures in it were made after death. The adjacent cerebral substance is healthy.