INJURIES AND DISEASES OF INTESTINES, &c. 319 90. Portion of an Ileum, in which two small ulcers, like those last described, have nearly healed. The muscular coat cannot be seen at their bases; and their margins, which probably were overhanging but have united to their bases, are smooth and shelving. 91. Another portion of the same Ileum, in which are several simi- larly healed small ulcers, and one of larger size in which a further process of ulceration has extended from the middle of the base of the ulcer in the mucous membrane, through the muscular and peritoneal coats, forming an elongated oval opening by which the intestine communicated with the cavity of the abdomen. The five preceding specimens were taken from patients who died with typhus fever at Vienna. Presented hy Charles Moore, Esq. 92. Portion of an Omentum, in which, by the adhesion of two adja- cent points of its surface, an aperture or ring is formed, through which the finger might be passed. 93. The Rectum, Uterus, and Vagina of a child five years old. Ten months before the death of the child, in the endeavour to administer an enema, a clyster-pipe was forced through the adjacent walls of the rectum and vagina. At the part thus in- jured there is a small depression in the wall of the vagina, and a long, pale, and irregular cicatrix in that of the rectum. Near this cicatrix, also, there are traces of small healed ulcers of the mucous membrane of the rectum. Just below the cicatrix, at a distance of about an inch from the margin of the anus, the canal of the rectum is reduced to an eighth of an inch in diameter, and the adjacent tissues are indurated. Above this stricture the intestine is greatly dilated ; below, it is of natural size. 94. The Large Intestine of the same child, enormously distended. It contained a large bucket-full of fluid faecal matter, which had been gradually accumulating from the time of the formation of the stricture in the rectum. Presented, with the preceding specimen, by Thomas Wormald, Esq.