INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. neck is partially absorbed, and there is no appearance of fracture of the trochanter. From ii woman eighty-five years old. The fracture occurred three years before death. Presented by William Radnor, Esq. 78. Section of the Radius of a young man, which has been frac- tured three quarters of an inch above its carpal articular surface. The posterior or dorsal margin of the upper fragment is driven into the cancellous tissue of the lower one: their palmar margins are in contact, but a projecting angle is here formed, in the front of the wrist, at the line of fracture. The fracture is united, and new bone is formed in the angle between the displaced dorsal margins of the fragments. 79. Section of a Tibia from a case of compound fracture, in which amputation was performed eleven weeks after the occurrence of the injury. The two portions of bone are held firmly together by osseous substance deposited around the torn edges of the periosteum, and in the contiguous cellular tissue. The union of the fractured surfaces of the walls of the bone and of its medullary tissue is not yet complete; the uniting medium here consisting of only soft substance. 80. Section of a fractured Fibula; from the same limb as No. 79. A small piece of bone, which was detached, has been re-united. The upper and lower portions of the fibula have become so displaced that the fractured end of the lower has rested against the outer surface of the upper portion. In this situation they have become firmly united by bone. 81. Section of a fractured Rib, which has re-united with displace- ment and overlapping of its ends. The firm union of the two portions of the rib has been effected by the abundant deposit of osseous substance in the texture of the periosteum and contiguous cellular tissue around, and for some way above and below, the fracture. A spiculum of bone projects from one sitle of the rib; this was probably a fragment separated by the fracture, and re-united to the outer surface of the rib.