DISEASES OF BONE. 3.0 168. A Lower Jaw which was separated after Necrosis; from a Girl twenty years old. Previous to the necrosis the whole of the jaw had been covered by a formation of porous, hard, greyish, new bone; and this, which extends even over the condyles and coronoid processes, perished with the original substance of the jaw, and was exfoliated with it. The disease commenced six years before the removal of the jaw. In the operation for removal the middle of the jaw was cut from the rest and extracted first; one lateral half was removed the next day; and the other, three weeks afterwards. The wound made in the operation, and the sinuses which had led to the diseased bone, healed quickly, and the patient recovered completely; re- gaining the power of mastication with those of the lower teeth which remained imbedded in the gum after the removal of the jaw. Presented by J. G. Perry, Esq.; by whom a further account of the case is given in the Medico-Cliirurgical Transactions, "Vol. xxi. p. 290. Case Book, Vol. i. p. 117, No. 142. 169. An Os Calcis, of which a portion has been exfoliated after Necrosis. There is anchylosis between the os calcis and os cuboides. 170. Section of a Femur with the osseous part of a Tumour which occupied the place of the shaft of the bone. The tumour measured thirty-six inches in circumference. Its larger and outer part consisted of medullary substance ; the smaller and deeper, of a mixture of medullary substance and bone. The head of the femur is the only portion of the bone retaining its healthy structure. The morbid osseous substance is fragile, light, spongy, and cancellous; but the form of the cancellous spaces differs materially from that of those in healthy bone. From a girl aged eleven years. 171. Sections of the Femur last described. Presented by Joseph Sargent, Esq. 172. Portion of a Tibia in which a large piece of the middle of the shaft has been destroyed by ulceration and necrosis extending gradually through it. The remaining bone is light, brittle, and porous, and there is a deposit of new bone on its surface above and below the diseased part. Removed by amputation from a middle-aged man : the disease was the conse- quence of external injury from a rope coiled round the leg. Presented by Edgar Barker, Esq.