NO THIRD SERIES. tially ossified. A section of one of the ribs shows the perios- teum continued over the exterior of the callus. 107. Sections of the upper part of a Femur, from a man aged eighty- two, who was believed to have received a fracture of the neck of this bone two years before death. Presented by Walter Jones, Esq. " The history of the case is clearly that of fracture of the neck of the femur ; the appearances of the bone show that there has been a fracture which has re-united by an osseous medium ; and the direction of the fracture is such as, in my opinion, can permit no doubt that it was confined to the portion of the neck of the bone covered by synovial membrane: conse- quently, that it was wholly within the capsule. The fracture extends through the basis of the head of the bone, in the line of its junction with the neck. As in other cases of the same kind, great part of the neck of the bone has disappeared, and, in consequence, the head is proportionately nearer to the trochanter major and shaft of the bone; its re-union has in fact taken place, in part to the remaining portion of the neck, and in part to the shaft. This union is certainly osseous. In addition to the first maceration of the bone with its surround- ing soft parts, it was subsequently immersed for several days in a strong solution of carbonate of potash ; and one half of the bone has been boiled in water for three hours without the slightest yielding perceptible in the line of the fracture." Description of the specimen by Mr. Stanley, in the Mcdico-Cldrurgical Transactions, Vol. xxiv., p. 13. London, 1841. 108. Patella fractured in three lines leading from the centre to the circumference. The portions are completely and closely united by bone, and with very little displacement: the lower portion alone being pushed somewhat forwards. Some new bone is deposited along the lines of fracture on the anterior surface of the patella: the posterior surface is smooth, and presents no new bone ; the margin of one of the fractures has still the appearance of a fracture of recent occurrence. It is probable that the fracture was caused by a blow upon the patella.