0(i FIRST SERIES. 251. Part of a Lower Jaw, including one of its rami and its symphysis, imbedded in a large, firm, dense, pale and obscurely fihrous Tumour, near which also are one or two smaller tumours of the same kind resting on its surface, but not connected with the jaw. The tumour projects with an ulcerated surface into the side and floor of the mouth, displacing the tongue and soft palate, and rising as high as the condyle of the jaw. The specimen was taken after death from the patient from whom the tumour " in No. 150 was removed. She survived the operation about two years. Presented by George Harrison, Esq. 252. An Os Naviculare from an old Horse, exhibiting absorption of its articular cartilage and ulceration of the subjacent bone. 253. Section of the hind Leg of a Dog, in which the Knee and Ankle-Joints are surrounded by growths, which consist of a substance like fibro-cartilage and of bone. 254. Section of the opposite hind Leg of the same Dog, with exactly similar growths. The soft parts have been removed by maceration. The osseous parts of the growths thus appear formed principally of hollow crooked branching tubes, like masses of coral round the joints. The bases of the growths are fixed on the surfaces of the articular ends of the bones; and bone, of the same general character, but much less abundant, is deposited on the patella, the shafts of the femur and tibia, and all the bones of the foot. Presented by W. J. Bayntin, Esq. •255. The Radius and Ulna of a Dog, with similar growths of coral- like Bone on a large portion of their surfaces. Many others of the bones were similarly diseased. Presented by W. S. Ward, Esq. 256. Portion of a Parietal Bone, the tables of which, without any alteration of their texture, are separated to the distance of half an inch ; the place of the diploe being occupied by very hard and heavy, spongy bone. The disease occupied the greater part of the parietal bone, producing a considerable elevation of the outer table, but no depression of the inner table. Presented by John Avory, Esq.