SIXTEENTH SERIES. 306 of the mucous membrane, with wart-like excrescences, and numerous small ulcers upon its internal surface. From tho same patient as the portion of Jejunum, No. 15, in this Scries. 25. Portion of a Colon, with Medullary Tumours projecting into its cavity. The largest of these growths forms a broad band round the whole interior of the intestine, and must have almost completely obstructed the canal. Its texture is broken and flocculent. The adjacent walls of the intestine are thickened, but their texture does not appear altered. 26. A Caecum, exhibiting a remarkable development of its follicles, the large open orifices of which are seen on every part of the surface of the mucous membrane. From the same diabetic patient as the portion of Small Intestine, No. 16. 27. Portion of a Rectum. At its lower border the mucous mem- brane is raised in folds and lobular tumours, by the hemorrhoidal enlargement of the subjacent veins. 28. A Caecum, with a portion of the abdominal walls from the right inguinal region. The anterior part of the caecum is united to the peritoneum lining the adjacent muscles ; at this part also the mucous membrane of the caecum is removed, and irregular fungous growths occupy its place. A fistulous canal, through which a quill is passed, extends from the cavity of the caecum through the middle of the growths and through the adjacent part of the abdominal walls. The patient was a man thirty-five years old. An abscess in the groin had existed, it was believed, previous to the ulceration through the ca;cum. There was similar ulceration, with fungous growths, in parts of the small intestine. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 26, No. 59. 29. Portion of a Colon generally thickened, and exhibiting numerous minute ulcers of its mucous membrane. 30. An Appendix Cseci, in which a green-gage stone is lodged. From a child who died with acute peritonitis. The stone became lodged in the cascum four days before death, and the peritonitis commenced shortly after- wards; Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 18, No. 38.