DISEASES OF HONE. 85 are in a corresponding degree splayed out, and their soles are nearly flat. . 149. The Pelvis and Lower Extremities of a middle-aged woman who had suffered from rickets. The bones are all strong, thick, and heavy, and not much curved. They are all short, and the shaft of the left femur is two inches and a half shorter than that of the right. The necks of the femora are horizontal; and their lower articular ends, especially that of the left femur, appear, as they do also in many preceding specimens, broad and flat. 150. The Pelvis and Lower Extremities of a middle-aged woman who had suffered from Rickets. The cavity of the pelvis is contracted, especially on the left side, by the pressing in of the acetabulum ; but the lower aperture of the pelvis is wide, the rami of the ischia being bent outwards and their tuberosities divergent. The necks of the femora are less oblique than usual ; their shafts, as well as those of the tibiae and fibulae, are considerably curved forwards and inwards. The shafts of the tibiae and fibulae are broad and flat. The feet are so much turned inward that their great toes are in contact. 151. Pelvis and Lower Extremities of a young man. All the bones of the right side are atrophied. The several promi- nences on the right os innominatum are less marked, and its iliac fossa is more shallow, than the corresponding parts on the left side. The bones of the right thigh and leg are all shorter, less in circumference, softer, and lighter, than those of the left limb. From the hip-joint to the ankle there is a difference of nearly two inches in the length of the limbs. In compensation for this difference, the left foot is directed almost vertically, so that in the erect position of the body (in imitation of which the bones are arranged) the extremities of the toes of both limbs are at the same level. All the bones of the right foot are slender, small, and soft. The arch of the sole is much increased by the posterior part of the os calcis projecting more than usually downwards.