264 THIRTEENTH SERIES. CI. A Femoral Artery and Vein, which were exposed and partly destroyed in the progress of a phagedenic ulcer. The coats of the artery, to the extent of about an inch, are completely disorganised; and two small ragged openings are visible in this portion of the vessel. Above this part of the artery, a circular indentation in its walls may be perceived, which was occasioned by a ligature placed around it in consequence of hemorrhage from the openings just mentioned. A portion of the vein is obliterated, and its cavity below the obliterated part is filled by a clot of blood. The disease extended from the labia of a woman, and had destroyed a large portion of the perineum before it reached the groin. G2. The Arch of an Aorta, with the large Arteries proceeding from it, and an Aneurism of the right Carotid Artery. The aneurism involves a portion of the common carotid, with the commence- ment of the external and internal carotid arteries. The sac is filled by firm coagula. About an inch below the sac, a ligature was placed around the artery, and was not separated at the time of death. Between the ligature and the aneurism, as well as between the ligature and the origin of the subclavian artery, the whole cavity of the carotid is filled by coagulum which adheres firmly to its sides. The aorta presents a tuber- culated appearance upon its internal surface from the thickening of its inner coat and the deposit of soft matter in it. Portions of the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves are firmly united to the aneurismal sac. The external and internal carotid arteries are closed at the point of their communication with the aneurism, but appear of healthy texture. C3. A Subclavian and Axillary Artery, the seat of Aneurism. The aneurism includes nearly three inches of the artery, and appears to be formed by dilatation of its whole circumference. The axillary plexus of nerves is connected with one side of the sac : and portions of the first and second ribs form part of its boundaries. Only half an inch of the artery intervenes between the aneurism and the cluster of branches arising from the first portion of the subclavian. For a short distance both above and below the aneurism, the coats of the artery arc thickened, and