180 FOURTH SERIES: SUB-SERIES D, Presented by R. S. Wells, Ebq. been a fracture and dislocation of the first lumbar and the last dorsal vertebrae. The first lumbar vertebra, unchanged in texture, but deprived of the fore part of the upper margin of its body, is thrown backwards, so that its fractured anterior margin is placed under the posterior margin of the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra. They appear as if the last dorsal vertebra, with the superior portion of the spine, had been pushed forwards and downwards, breaking off and sliding over the upper and anterior margin of the first lumbar. In this position the two vertebrae are firmly fixed by bone deposited in front of the angle formed by their bodies. At the angle thus formed the body of the first lumbar vertebra projects into the spinal canal, reducing it to a fourth of its natural diameter. A distance of an inch intervenes between the spinous processes of the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebrae. On the right side their corresponding articular surfaces appear to have been sepa- rated and re-united by bone; on the left side the inferior articular process of the last dorsal vertebrae is wanting ; but there are appearances as if it had been united to the posterior part of the body of the displaced first lumbar vertebra: it was probably detached in the dissection. „ 5. Section of a Spine, in which there has been a comminuted fracture of the body of the first lumbar vertebra. A frag- ment of the body has been pushed backwards into the verte- bral canal, completely obliterating it. Some new bone is formed in front of the spine above and below the fracture, and holds the adjacent vertebrae together. The patient, an adult, lived about three months after the mjury. There was no paralysis of the lower limbs. D.6. Part of the Spine of a Horse, in which the bodies of two lumbar vertebra, are united by a strong thick arch of bone, extending like a bridge over the side and front of the inter- vertebral space. The portion of the intervertebral ligament beneath the bridge is absent; but there is no appearance of injury or disease of the adjacent bones. Several years before death, the horse received a severe injury of the back.