DISEASES OF BONE. 23 brane with bony fibres dispersed through it. Between the cells are considerable spaces, filled by soft and shreddy medullary substance, which extends for a short distance into the interior of the shaft of the tibia, and then terminates with an abruptly circumscribing line. 96. The other half of the Tumour last described. All the soft sub- stance having been removed by maceration, the irregular bony plates and fibres are displayed which contributed to form the walls of the cells or cysts in the interior of the tumour. From a woman thirty years old. The disease, beginning after a fall on the knee, had existed two years and a half, and had gradually increased without pain. She recovered after the amputation of the limb. See Case Book, vol. i. p. 57, No. 102; an extract from a fuller account of the case by Mr. Lawrence in tho Medieo-CHrurgical Transactions, vol. xvii. p. 35. London, 1832. 97. Section of a Femur and of a Tumour surrounding the lower part of its shaft. The tumour consists of a mixture of medullary substance and a firm tissue like that of a fibrous tumour or fibro- cartilage with spicula of bone dispersed through it. At its posterior part are some thick-walled membranous cells or cysts which were filled with coagulated blood. The injection of the limb has displayed minute vessels distributed irregularly through the tumour. The walls of the femur enclosed within the tumour are diseased, softened, and thinned, to the extent of about two inches; and in this situation the shaft is broken, and the can- cellous tissue is filled by a morbid structure similar to that which surrounds the bone. 98. Section of the Tumour last described. The patient was twenty-two years old, an opera dancer, and the disease had existed about seven months. The tumour grew rapidly and with much pain. Ho died shortly after amputation of the limb; and no other part was found diseased. Case Book, vol. i. p. 50, No. 103. 99. Section of a Tibia exhibiting a peculiar change of structure, with extensive ulceration, and necrosis of a portion of its walls and medullary texture. A cavity between the diseased bone and the periosteum was filled by purulent fluid. Above and below the chiefly diseased part the walls of the bone are thickened and indurated.