269 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. condensed cellular tissue; and its surface, at its upper part, is covered by thick laminated coagulum. Bristles are introduced into the orifices of the epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries. In the lower part of the sac are two distinct orifices, one leading to the femoral artery, the other to the profunda. The femoral vein, to the extent of two inches, is obliterated by the pressure of the aneurism. Below the obliterated part the vein is laid open to show the clots of fibrine filling its cavity. 84. The Arch of an Aorta, exhibiting an aneurism which has burst into the vena cava superior. The aneurism is formed by dilatation of the upper and posterior wall of that portion of the arch which lies between the reflection of the pericardium and the origin of the arteria innominata; its walls comprise all the coats of the artery. On both sides of the aneurismal sac the aorta has its natural size, and its internal coat appears less thickened and tuberculated than where it lines the sac. The vena cava superior is adherent to the exterior of the sac, and there is an aperture of communication between them; imme- diately around which aperture the vein and the sides of the sac are so much attenuated as to be transparent. 85. The Arch of an Aorta, with the Carotid and Subclavian Ar- teries, all generally and almost uniformly dilated, and having earthy and soft matter deposited in their coats. 86. Portion of an Aorta, with the External Iliac, Femoral, and Popliteal Artery. There was an aneurism of the popliteal artery, on account of which the femoral was tied three weeks before death. The popliteal artery is not dilated, but it pre- sents a large aperture in its coats, apparently the result of ulceration in the situation over which the aneurism was seated. A ligature was placed around the femoral artery, an inch and a half below the origin of the profunda, and had separated before death. A firm cylindrical coagulum fills the artery between the situation of the ligature and the orifice of the profunda. The divided ends of the artery are united by dense cellular tissue, but are not closed. Between the ligature and the aperture in the popliteal artery, there are several small deposits of soft