•J90 FOURTEENTH SERIES. •19. Anotlier portion of the same Lung. A bristle is passed beneath a narrow band, formed probably by the further organization of blood coagulated during life, within the branches of the pul- monary artery. One of two such bands is attached only at its ends to the inner surface of the branch of the artery: the other is attached by nearly the whole of one of its surfaces to the angle and adjacent parts of a large branching arterial trunk. The clots are firm and pale pink, and have completely coalesced with the wall of the artery. In some of the smaller branches of the artery there are short round grumous coagula, like those described in the last preparation. The patient, a woman seventy years old, died after suffering with affection of the chest, and oedema of the lower extremities, for five weeks. Two days before her death she began to sink rapidly. The case is related by Mr. Paget, and the specimen No. 48 is figured, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xxvii. p. 170, PI. iii. fig. 3. London, 1844. 50. Dried Sections of a Lung, affected with Emphysema in an extreme degree. The lung is greatly enlarged: none of the vesicular structure remains; but in its place are large and irregular spaces with imperfect partitions formed by the re- mains of the thin layers and bands of fibro-cellular tissue which separated the pulmonary lobules. The whole of the right lung was in the same state. The left lung was emphysematous in a less degree. The patient was a middle-aged man, of whose history nothing was known except that he died with diseased liver, after having frequently passed gall- stones. 51. Dried Sections of a Lung affected with a much less degree of Emphysema. The air-cells are regular in their form and arrangement, but larger than is natural. 52. Portion of Lung, with some of the large branches of the Pul- monary Artery laid open and containing firm, dry, and cylin- drical clots of blood, which completely filled their cavities, and had probably been formed several days before death. From a man fifty years old, who, whilo suffering with only slight symptoms 01 pulmonary disease, died suddenly. The case is related by Mr. Paget, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xxviii. p. 353. London, 1845.