THIRTEENTH SERIES. •278 tough fibro-cellular tissue. Between the cord and the origin of the profunda is a firm, dry, rust-coloured clot of blood, filling and adhering to the coats of the artery. Below the cord is a similar clot half an inch in length, the lower end of which is continued into a milk-white thin layer, like the buffy coat of a clot of blood, which lines the whole length of the rest of the artery down to the aneurismal sac, and is, in its course, connected with three other decolorized clots closely attached to the arterial walls. Part of this layer has been reflected: the rest was too intimately adherent to the artery to be separated without tearing it: the coats of the part of the artery which it lines appear healthy. The mouth of the aneurismal sac is very long and narrow ; both it and the whole cavity of the sac are filled by firm, dry, laminated coagulum. The walls of the sac are thick and tuberculated: they appear to have been formed by dilatation of about one-third of the circumference of a portion of the artery an inch and a half in length. The patient was a man between fifty and sixty years old. He died with aneurism of the arch of the aorta, and abscess of the lung. 115. The Arch of an Aorta, with portions of the trachea and oesophagus. The coats of the aorta are thickened and tuber- culated ; and there are abundant deposits of fatty matter in them. It is generally dilated, and portions of it are further dilated into two aneurismal sacs. One of these is of large size and situated below, and in front of, the great branches of the arch. The other sac is at the extremity of the arch, on its convex side, just beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery. The last-mentioned sac is of small size, and projects backwards against the sides of the trachea and oesophagus. Its cavity is filled by laminated coagulum, a large portion of which also projects into the canal of the aorta. The posterior part of the sac, which was in contact with the trachea and oesophagus, has been separated from those parts and removed. The exterior of the oesophagus is healthy; but, internally, it is extensively ulcerated where it was compressed, and the ulceration has exposed the rings of the trachea, so that the ends of some of them project into the cavity of the oesophagus.