1()0 SECOND SKKIKS. mains of the capsule and by the surrounding muscles. Within this cavity, as well as in the acetabulum, was a mixture of a large quantity of pus and tuberculous matter. The section of the head of the femur shows tuberculous matter deposited in its cancellous texture. There is also a collection of tuberculous matter in the walls of the acetabulum communicating with its cavity and with the cavity of the pelvis. An abscess had formed between the periosteum and the shaft of the bone just below the trochanter. The ischiatic nerve is seen upon the tuberosity of the ischium, near the dislocated head of the bone. 50 A Shoulder-Joint, in which there is partial absorption of the * articular cartilage upon the head of the humerus and glenoid cavity. The tendon of the biceps is continued on the outside of the capsule of the joint, to the upper edge of the glenoid cavity. There is also a distinct slip of this tendon adherent to the lower part of the bicipital groove in the humerus. It is not know whether this condition of the tendon of the biceps were the ,Wt of injury or disease, or a congenital defect. The other shoulder-jomt presented a similar arrangement. 51 A Patella, in which there is softening, with fibrous degeneration ' and absorption, of the articular cartilage. The disease affects only half the cartilage. At the borders of the diseased part there are cracks extending in various directions through the whole thickness of the cartilage, and some of its substance be- tween the cracks is converted into close-set tufts of fine filaments, which float out from the surface of the bone, and are about twice as long as the healthy cartilage is thick In he centre of the diseased spot, where the morbid change has made most progress, the cartilage has been wholly removed, and the exposed surface of the patella is hard and nodulated. 52 The Bones of two Hip-Joints from the same person. In each oint are exhibited exactly the same morbid changes. Nothing remains of either ligamentum teres, except a few shreds_of fibrous tissue attached to the head of each femur. Close by he insertion of this ligament a similar small portion of each of articular cartilages has been removed by ulceration ; and on 1 interior surface of the neck of each femur there is an ntegula,