INJURIES AND DISEASES OF INTESTINES, &c. 313 lymphatic glands behind the rectum are enlarged, and filled by a substance similar to that of which the tumour is composed. The patient was a woman forty years old. She died extremely emaciated, with medullary tumours in the liver and other parts. She had made no complaint leading to a suspicion of disease of the rectum. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 170 No 194. 69. A Rectum exhibiting the effects of long continued inflamma- tion in its coats and in the tissues around them. The whole of the mucous membrane, for about nine inches above the anus, is removed, an irregular shreddy surface being exposed. On this surface there are several apertures which lead to fistulous passages in the diseased tissues. Upon the anterior aspect of the rectum there is one aperture higher up than the rest which passes through the walls of the rectum, and which opened directly into the peritoneal cavity. Through this aperture a portion of glass is passed. All the tissues around the rectum are greatly thickened and indurated. The patient, a middle-aged woman, had long suffered with symptoms of disease of the rectum, when peritonitis was excited by the formation of the aperture above described, and speedily proved fatal. The first sign of peritonitis occurred during the act of defecation. 70. A Caecum, with parts of the ascending Colon and of the abdo- minal wall from the right inguinal region. The portion of glass marks the track of a large abscess, which at one extremity communicated by two apertures with the intestine, and at the other end opened by extensive sloughing through the groin and scrotum. The edges of the apertures in the intestine are soft and shreddy: the parts adjacent to them are not thicker or harder than usual: but near the uppermost of them is a circular spot, in which the coats of the intestines are thin and soft; at this part the mucous membrane only remains : its inner surface is smooth and polished. The patient was a man thirty-eight years old. The history of the case, as well as the appearances here shown, make it probable that there was first an abscess m the iliac fossa, which, opening into the cacum, permitted the escape of fa;ces, and the consequent sloughing of the tissue extending from the iliac fossa through the groin into the scrotum. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 174 No. 198. ' 71. Portion of a Colon, in which a large superficial ulcer has nearly