•218 NINTH SERIES. substance attached to it: it is reduced in size as far as the commissure ; but beyond this, no change is visible in it. Tho patient was an unhealthy man sixty-five years old. The disease had existed about twelve months. He died ten days after the extirpation of the eye : and melanotic disease was found in the liver, sections of which are preserved in Series XVIII. No. 23. The case is related by Mr. Lawrence in his " Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye :" London, 1844, 8vo. p. 720. 8. Sections of an Eye, from an adult. The globe is filled by a soft medullary and melanotic substance, of mingled shades of dusky grey and black, which has also protruded the back part of the sclerotica, forming a nodulated elevation by the side of the optic nerve. The optic nerve is reduced in size, but appears otherwise sound: the lens and iris are pressed against the cornea. The patient was a man thirty years old, and the disease had been about two years in progress : the globe was slightly enlarged by the growth within it. A year after the extirpation of the eye, the patient was in good health. The case is related by Mr. Lawrence in his " Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye :" London, 1844, 8vo. p. 719. 9. A left Eye, in which there is a large ulcerated aperture in the middle of the Cornea. The pupillary margin of the iris was adherent to this aperture, and is thickened, and appears ragged, by the lymph deposited upon it. The patient was forty years old, and had a tumour in the left side of the pons, which compressed the origins of the fifth and facial nerves on the same side. Some signs of this tumour had existed for more than a year. She lost sensation and motion on the left side of the face, and motion in the left arm and leg. The hearing and taste were lost on the left side : she was subject to repeated attacks of erysipelatous inflammation of the same side of the face: the left side of the interior of the nose was very vascular, and often discharged blood; and this ulceration of the cornea ensued, in the course of rapidly destructive disease of the eye. The case is related by Mr. Stanley, in the London Medical Gazette, Vol. i. p. 531, 1828. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 123, No. 146. 10. Sections of an Eye, from an adult. The retina has disappeared, and its place is occupied by a thick layer of dense osseous substance. 11. A Lachrymal Gland, of natural size and structure, which, pro- truding from the orbit so as to be felt through the eye-lid, was removed by operation.