INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE STOMACH. 297 16. Section of a Stomach of very small size, and exhibiting in- creased thickness with altered structure of the several tissues between its peritoneal and mucous coats. The mucous mem- brane appears healthy; but in the place of the submucous coat is a layer, from one to three lines in thickness, of a hard, white, obscurely fibrous tissue. The place of the muscular coat is occupied by a layer of dense greyish substance, intersected by radiating white lines, and from one to three lines in thickness. The peritoneal coat appears healthy, but the subperitoneal is thickened, hard, and consolidated. From a young man. Presented by John Lawrence, Jun. Esq. 17. A Stomach, exhibiting numerous pendulous and lobulated growths, like polypi, from its mucous membrane. They appa- rently consist of a tissue similar to that of the membrane itself. The intervening parts of the mucous membrane have a peculiar villous appearance, like the interior of small intestine when the villi are distended. 18. Portions of the Stomach and (Esophagus of a middle-aged man who, it was supposed, had attempted to poison himself with laudanum. There is an extensive laceration through all the coats of the stomach a little beyond the entrance of the oesophagus; and other smaller lacerations are visible in the adjacent parts of the mucous and peritoneal coats. A large quantity of blood is effused from the lacerations into the sur- rounded tissues of the stomach. These lacerations were the effects of over-distension, the stomach-pump having been too freely used for the removal of the poison. 19. Portion of the great end of a Stomach, exhibiting a large cancerous ulcer of its coats. The arch of the colon is adherent to the diseased part, and is penetrated by the ulcer extending through it from the stomach. 20. Portion of the great end of a Stomach, exhibiting several distinct ulcers on its mucous membrane. Each ulcer is nearly circular, and has a smooth elevated surface, and a thickened margin.