165 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. fracture of both of them near the ankle, and of a simple fracture of the tibia near the knee-joint. Near the ankle, the fractured portions are irregularly united at a right angle with each other, the lower portions being turned inwards. In the lower part of the tibia there is a large irregular cavity, communicating both externally and with the joint, in which cavity several loose pieces of bone were contained. The upper part of the shaft of the fibula has not united with the lower part, but the latter is firmly fixed to the tibia. The fractured portions of the head of the tibia are firmly^ but irregularly, united. These injuries were the consequences of an accident which occurred a year before amputation. . 107. The lower extremities of the Tibia and Fibula, with the Foot of an elderly woman, exhibiting the effects of an injury which occurred several years before death. The tibia is dislocated inwards, so that only the outer half of its articular surface is in apposition with the astragalus. There has been a comminuted fracture, extending in various directions through the lower end of the fibula and the adjacent margin of the tibia. The separated portions of bone have been completely re-united. 108. Bones of a Carpus and Metacarpus. The lower head of the metacarpal bone of the thumb has a widely expanded and flattened surface, by which it articulated with a similarly deformed surface on the trapezium. It is probable that these changes were the consequences of a fracture of the metacarpal bone extending into the joint. 109. A Tibia, which was fractured very obliquely through the middle of its shaft. The fractured portions are firmly united, and so exactly, that on the posterior aspect of the bone the line of fracture is not discernible. The shaft in the neigh- bourhood of the injury is thickened, and new bone is deposited on many parts of its surface. 110. A Tibia and Fibula, which were fractured somewhat ob- liquely near the middle of their shafts. The several por-