17<> FOURTH SEBIES. formed by the approximation of the upper and lower parts of the column and the projection of the spinous processes. In the dorsal vertebrae the ulceration is superficial, though the intervertebral ligaments are very deeply destroyed. The bone in progress of ulceration is not softened or otherwise changed in its apparent texture. 32. The cervical portion of a Spine, in which the second, third, fourth, and fifth vertebrae are united by bone. The bone uniting them forms a broad smooth layer covering the front surface of their bodies. Similar formations of bone are seen upon the front surfaces and margins of the sixth and seventh vertebrae, and these show that the union of each two adjacent vertebrae is effected by the growths of bone from their adja- cent margins extending over the front of the intervertebral substance, and then coalescing; for in these vertebrae the growths from their several margins have met and are adapted, but not united, to each other. 33. Portion of an Occipital Bone, with the first and second cervical vertebrae. There is a nearly complete osseous union of the two vertebrae, and the odontoid process appears to have been superficially ulcerated. The anterior arch of the atlas exhibits a line of fracture; but it does not appear probable that the anchylosis of the vertebrae was the consequence of the fracture. 34. The upper half of a Spine, in which the bodies of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae are completely, and those of the fourth and seventh are partially, destroyed by ulceration. The inter- vertebral ligaments between these vertebrae, as well as those between the first four dorsal vertebrae, are completely destroyed, and the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae are superficially ulcerated. There is angular curvature in the lower part of the cervical region, and the remains of one of the bodies of the vertebrae projects far into the spinal canal. From a child ten years old. There was a large collection of matter in front of the spine pressing in the pleura. Presented by J. G. Perry, Esq.