DISEASES OP THE HEART, &c. 247 around this largest mass, and a thin layer or capsule of fibro- cellular tissue invests it. The pericardium was adherent to its surface and to the adjacent part of the surface of the ventricle. The patient was a girl, who, for a long time before her death, had complained of nearly constant pain about the heart, but presented no other sign of cardiac disease. She died suddenly. Presented by Dr. Hue. 66. Part of an Aorta, of which the orifice is small, and the valves thickened, opaque, united at their adjacent edges, and all made nearly rigid by deposits of earthy matter in them and in parts of the arterial walls near their angles. Only a small aperture remains leading from the centre to the wall of the aorta, between the edges of two of the valves. From an elderly gentleman who had cerebral disease, but manifested no distinct signs of disease of the heart. 67. Part of an Aorta, with only two valves, both of which are thickened, and made rigid by deposits of earthy matter, parts of which project in coarsely granular masses on the arterial surface of the valves. Only a very narrow linear fissure remains between the valves. 68. A Heart, greatly enlarged, and with only two pulmonary valves. Both these valves are slightly thickened and opaque, and have large masses of fibrine mixed with earthy matter attached to their free borders. One of these masses, three quarters of an inch in length, hangs into the cavity of the ventricle, and appears, by its weight, to have elongated and drawn out the narrow portion of the edge of the valve to which it is attached. All the other valves are slightly opaque, but thin and pliant. There is a small granular patch of fibrine deposited on the posterior surface of one portion of the mitral valve. 69. Part of the left side of a Heart, with lymph or fibrine deposited on a large portion of both surfaces of the mitral valve, and on the borders and ventricular surface of the aortic valves. The deposits are soft, yellowish, warty, and firmly attached. The valves are opaque and slightly thickened; those of the aorta are also contracted.