'258 THIRTEENTH SERIES. obliterated from its bifurcation almost to its termination in the auricle. The upper part of the vein is distended by fibrinous substance, which appeared to have been separated from the blood. Below this the vein could not be traced; it appeared to be completely lost in the diseased structure. 30. Portion of an Abdominal Aorta. Earthy matter is deposited in its coats in such quantity that it forms a complete tube, which is in some parts half a line in thickness. 31. A Vena Cava Inferior, with the Common Iliac Veins, oblite- rated by deposits of fibrine in their cavities. From the con- tracted state of the iliac veins and of the lower part of the inferior cava, it was inferred that they had been obliterated for a considerable time. The body from which they were taken was generally anasarcons, and one foot had mortified. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 25, No. 57. 32. Portion of an Artery, exhibiting the division of its middle and internal coats by three different kinds of ligature, viz. the large round, the small round, and the flat, ligature. The ligatures em- ployed were composed of the same materials as those which are tied round the portion of artery by the side of that on which the experiment was made. The small round ligature, which is in the middle, made the cleanest and most complete division of the coats : the division by the flat ligature is uneven, incom- plete, and attended by partial separation of the adjacent part of the divided coats. The experiment was made on a dead artery. 33. Sections of an Abdominal Aorta, with a small Aneurism. The sac is situated between the coats of the artery ; its cavity extending on every side of the small mouth by which it opens through the inner coat, and projecting very little externally. Its cavity is completely filled by laminated coagulum. Above and below the aneurism, earthy matter is deposited in the coats of the artery, and its walls are generally thickened and indurated. 34. A Femoral Vein, exhibiting an abundant and nearly uniform