THIRTEENTH SERIES. places dilated in the form of pouches. Its coats are thickened, and there are thin chords, apparently the remains of its valves, extending across its cavity. 80. A Femoral Artery, the coats of which are made completely rigid by deposits of earthy substance. The deposits form a nearly uniform tube, in which, however, traces of an annular arrangement may be observed. 81. Portion of an Abdominal Aorta, exhibiting a large Aneurismal Sac, with a wide oval mouth, projecting from one side of the artery, and formed entirely by the dilatation of its coats. A soft white substance is deposited in irregular patches beneath the inner membrane of both the sac and the arterial walls. 82. A left Carotid Artery, with a portion of the Arch of the Aorta. A ligature was placed around the carotid artery, in the middle of its course, six weeks before death, and it had been separated without hemorrhage. A firm cylindrical clot adheres to the inside of the artery, and extends from half an inch below the situation of the ligature downwards to the aorta. A similar clot is continued upwards within the artery, from the situation of the ligature to the origin of a small branch. The extremities of the divided artery from which the ligature separated are soft and pulpy, and there was not in either of them the least adhesion of the opposite sides of the vessel. The artery was tied in the hope of curing epilepsy in an elderly gentleman, who had found that hy compressing his carotids he could avert the epileptic seizure. He died with abscess extending into the mediastinum along the sheath of the carotid and jugular vessels. 83. A Femoral Artery, the seat of Aneurism. The sac, occupying the whole inguinal portion of the artery, extends from the origin of the epigastric and circumflex iliac branches to the profunda. It is formed by a dilatation of about half the circum- ference of a portion of the artery an inch long. The coats of the artery, thickened by deposits of soft substance, opaque, and indurated, may be traced for some way upon the inside of the sac. In the rest of its extent the sac appears to be formed by