INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BRAIN, &c. •207 least in part) from a fissure, about an inch long, through the parietal bone, at the margin of the effusion. The blood forms a circumscribed oval layer, about half an inch thick, and is coagulated. Thin plates of porous new bone have been formed in the dura mater around part of the margin elevated by the effused blood, as well as in distinct patches nearer to the centre of the part thus elevated. The bone appears to be formed between the two layers of the dura mater: a portion of the inner layer is reflected from the surface of the new bone over which it lay, and is indicated by a bristle. A small quantity of new bone is also formed on the inner surface of the skull, near the margin of the effused blood : but there is no appear- ance of any being formed beneath the blood. The infant was twenty-five days old, when it died with convulsions, which had commenced two days before its death. Previous to these it had been healthy, with the exception of a slight diarrhoea. The case is related by Dr. West, and the preparation is engraved, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xxviii. p. 397, London, 1845. Presented by Dr. West. 72. A Cerebellum, on the upper surface of which an irregularly oval mass of tubercle, rather more than an inch in diameter, is deeply imbedded. The mass was connected with the inferior surface of the tentorium cerebelli, and has been in part detached from the cerebellum, to which it was very loosely attached: it presents a few scattered points of softening. From a lad eighteen years old, who had severe pain in the head with stra bismus and impairment of speech. The first two symptoms subsided'during the rapid development of tuberculous disease in the lungs and small intestines Case- Book, Vol. i. p. 188, No. 208. 73. Portions of the Base of a Skull, with a diseased Pituitary Gland and other adjacent parts. The natural substance of the pituitary gland is lost in a mass of firm, pale, semitransparent, granular, cancerous substance, which extends from the gland into both the left and the right cavernous sinus. In the left cavernous sinus, the several nerves are lost in the morbid growth, which also protrudes on the inner side of the left Casserian ganglion, and somewhat compresses it. On the right side the nerves are in contact with the surface of the tumour The patiene, a m ^ years oJd5 ^ for .bout five mon( death, paralyse of the muscles of the left eye-ball and of the left levator pal-