203 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BRAIN, &c, men, and perhaps also of those of the thorax. The involuntary movements became less, but the loss of sensation more complete, till the patient died. His intellect was unaffected till three days before death. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 43. No. 83. Presented by Thomas Warner, Esq. 51. Sections of a Tumour, which occupied the interior of the lateral ventricles of a boy, aged twelve. The tumour is of irregularly oval form, knobbed on its surface, and measures from three to four inches in its diameters. It appears to consist throughout of a soft medullary substance. Portions of the choroid plexus are attached to one of its surfaces. The boy had from infancy been subject to severe pain in the head; eight months before death he became amaurotic and of weak intellect. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 22. No. 50. Presented by W. C. Clough, Esq. 52. Portion of Dura Mater, upon the surface of which there is an adventitious membrane, in the form of a sac which was filled by coagulated blood. The membrane is of a dense texture, and of about the thickness of the dura mater. Portions of the blood still remain attached to the inner walls of the sac. 53. Three flat portions of substance, like bone, from the Falx Cere- bri of a man who had been subject to epilepsy. 54. Portion of Dura Mater, with large plates of bone-like substance in the Falx Cerebri, and some smaller ones in its neighbourhood. From a man who was subject to epilepsy. 55. Portion of Dura Mater, in the texture of which there is a depo- sit of melanotic matter, near the superior longitudinal sinus. From the same patient as Nos. 190, 191, and 192 in Series 1. 56. Portions of granular Adipose matter, mixed with a few short, stiff, pale hairs, which were found in a cyst beneath the pia mater covering the inferior surface of the cerebellum. From a stout, strong man, forty-five years old, who died very suddenly, while in apparently good general health. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 158. No. 183. 57. Portion of the posterior and upper part of a Skull, with the