FOURTH SERIES. 17-2 those parts. lie died three days and a halfaf&r the fall The case is described by Mr. Lawrence, in the Medico-Chiruryicul Transactions, Vol. xiii. p. 394, London; 1825. Case-Hook, Vol. i. p. 71, No. 112. 13. Portion of a Spine, in which there is a complete dislocation of the articular processes of the sixth and seventh cervical ver- tebrae, and a partial dislocation of their bodies, without any fracture. The right half of the intervertebral substance is torn through ; the left half is nearly entire. The articular pro- cesses of the sixth vertebra were raised up above those of the seventh, but had not passed to the front of them. The patient fell, from a height of ahout sixteen feet, on his head, and his neck was hent hy the weight of his body. He lost all sensibility and power of volun- tary motion in the trunk and limbs, and died on the third day after the fall. 14. Section of a Spine, with Angular Curvature. The disease is situated in the middle of the dorsal region of the spine; and large portions of the bodies of two vertebrae are destroyed by ulceration. A soft caseous matter is deposited around the diseased bone, and is so abundant in front and at the side of the spine, that it elevates the periosteum of the vertebrae and the pleura costalis in the form of a tumour within the chest. A small piece of bone is separated from the rest by ulceration, and is imbedded in the caseous matter behind the ulcerated vertebrae. The medulla spinalis, for the space of an inch and a half, is compressed in the situation of the curvature. The patient was under the care of Mr. Pott, and had paraplegia and other signs of " Pott's disease" of the spine and spinal chord. It was one of the first cases which showed the benefit of issues in the treatment of the disease; for under their influence, the paraplegia and other symptoms were completely re- moved, and the patient recovered so as to walk with ease. He died with phthisis, and a portion of one of his lungs is preserved in Series XIV. No. 6. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 6, No. 14. 15. Section of a Spine, exhibiting disease in three of the bodies of the lower dorsal vertebrae, which was in progress towards its cure. A large portion of the anterior and lower half of the body of one vertebra has been removed, probably by ulceration like that shown in the preceding specimen. The intervertebral ligaments above and below this have also been removed: the adjacent vertebrae are approximated, so that their anterior