THIRTEENTH SERIES. up as the junction of the deep femoral vein; and the lymph, mingled with clots of blood, completely fills the cavity of the vein to some distance above the amputated extremity. A conical clot an inch in length fills the end of the cavity of the artery. The patient was a man forty-five years old. The amputation was performed for compound fracture. The cavity remaining within the lymph in the vein was full of pus. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 15, No. 33. 20. The Arch of an Aorta, from which two large Aneurisms have arisen. The mouths of the sacs are separated by a portion of the whole circumference of the artery about half an inch in width, above which they communicate by an irregular oval aperture, through which one appears to have burst into the other. La- minated coagulum lines both sacs. The internal surface of the aorta is tuberculated, and has irregular deposits of soft matter between its coats. Presented by James Gillman, Esq. 21. The Arch of an Aorta, with the left subclavian and axillary arteries. The left axillary artery is the seat of aneurism, for the cure of which the subclavian artery has been tied. The upper part of the preparation consists of the left subclavian artery and the arch of the aorta. By tracing the subclavian artery downwards, the situation where it has been tied will be recognized. On the side of the ligature nearest to the heart, the artery is pervious and of its ordinary size to its extremity, which was closed by only a small coagulum. Between this coagulum and the sides of the vessel, is an aperture into which a bristle is passed, and through which blood had passed from the artery to the outward wound. At a short distance above the situation of the ligature, several large branches arise. The portion of artery between the situation of the ligature and the aneurismal sac is completely closed by coagulum. The aneu- rismal sac also is in great part filled by laminated coagulum: its exterior is firmly attached to three of the ribs which have undergone partial absorption. Below the sac is the remaining part of the axillary, with the commencement of the brachial, artery. The axillary artery from the point of its connexion