DISEASES OP BONE. 83 a. 147. Spine, Pelvis, and lower limbs of a woman aged about thirty, deformed by rickets. The spine exhibits three lateral curvatures. The lumbar vertebrae, inclining strongly to the left, are also twisted on their axes so that the left transverse processes project forwards. The lower dorsal vertebrae, inclining to the right, compensate for the preceding changes by having their right transverse processes directed forwards. The upper dorsal and the cervical vertebrae tend to the right, and their transverse processes incline to the same directions as those of the lumbar, viz. the left forwards, and the right backwards. From the manner in which the weight of the trunk has been transmitted to the pelvis, the sacrum has become nearly horizontal. The cavity of the pelvis is capacious: the ilia are everted; and the angle of the symphysis pubis is rather more acute than is natural. The femora are short, and strongly curved, with their con- vexities directed forwards ; and their lower articular ends appear very broad and flat. The tibiae and fibulae are also curved with their convexities directed forwards and inwards. a. 148. The Skeleton of an adult woman, showing, in a remarkable degree, the deformities consequent on rickets. The dorsal region of the spine is strongly curved to the right side, and the lumbar region to the left; but the curve to the right predominates, so that the right ribs project an inch beyond the great trochanter, the chest thus overhanging the extrem- ities. Together with the lateral curve of the spine, there is malposition of the bodies of the several vertebrae; they are all turned round, so that their front surfaces look out- wards in the direction of the lateral curve in which they are included. The right side of the chest is encroached upon by the dorsal curvature of the spine. The angles of the right ribs are very acute, their bodies strongly curved : the right inter- costal spaces are very narrow. The angles of the left ribs are very obtuse, the ribs long and comparatively little curved, but directed downwards; so that the cartilages of the false ribs are nearly on a level with the crest of the left ilium, g 2