7 DISEASES OF BONE. situation the separation of the dead bone has been commenced by the formation of a groove between it and the living bone. The death of the bone was produced by the perforation of its walls. 14. Section of the Tibia of a Dog, in which Necrosis was pro- duced in a portion of the middle of its shaft. The dead bone, not yet separated from the living, is in part enclosed by new bone which has been formed around it. The necrosis was produced by the destruction of the medulla. 15. Section of the Radius and Ulna of a Dog exhibiting Necrosis of a portion of the shaft of the former. The dead bone is com- pletely separated, and new bone is abundantly formed around it. The cavity in which the dead bone is contained, is lined by a very thick and vascular membrane. The necrosis was produced by the destruction of the medulla. 16. Sections of the Tibia of a Dog, exhibiting Necrosis of a small portion of the posterior wall, and deposit of new bone around the exfoliating portion. 17. Fore Leg of a Dog, in which Necrosis of nearly the whole shaft of the Radius has been produced by destruction of the medulla. The dead shaft has been separated from the articular ends, and new bone is in progress of formation around its extremities. The eleven preceding preparations were obtained by a series of experiments performed by Mr. Stanley. 18. Portion of the Lower Jaw of a Child, which separated by ex- foliation. It contains two molar teeth of the temporary set, and the rudiments of three of the permanent set. 19. Sections of a Tibia, of which nearly the whole length and thick- ness of the walls of the shaft perished, and were in pro- cess of separation from the cancellous and medullary texture, which has preserved its vitality and a nearly healthy condition. The groove formed between the dead and the living bone is filled with soft and very vascular granulations. On the internal surface of the periosteum, spongy and vascular new hone is formed in a nearly uniform layer, to supply the place of that