276 TIIIRTRKNT11 SERIES inside of one of the veins dew ribed in No. 107. The section of one coagulum shows that it consists of regularly arranged layers of fibrine. The other coagulum is enclosed in three distinct cysts; of which the outer two are membranous, and the inner consists chiefly of bone. 109. Portion of an Aorta, with the Cceliac and Mesenteric Arteries, from a Horse. The cceliac artery is obliterated at its origin; it then becomes dilated into a wide pouch filled by layers of firm fibrine, in which there were several worms. (Strongulus armatus). These worms exhibited lively move- ments for a considerable period after their removal from the body. Some of them lie loose at the bottom of the bottle. 110. Part of a Heart, with the Aorta. A transverse rent extends through the inner and middle coats of the whole circumference of the aorta, about half an inch above the angles of the valves. The blood, penetrating between the coats at the tom part, has thence extended and separated the layers of the middle coat through a large portion of the arch and thoracic part of the aorta. Where the coats are thus separated, the trunks of the intercostal arteries are torn across close to their origins. The inner coat of the artery appeared opaque, and, in the thoracic portion, it is tuberculated by deposits of soft matter beneath its surface. The aortic and mitral valves are slightly opaque. The left ventricle of the heart is dilated and hypertrophied. The patient was a woman about forty-five years old. Her pulse was generally strong and full, but sbe was considered perfectly healthy. As she was carrying two pails of water, she suddenly fell down, and almost instantly expired. Two pints of blood were found in the pericardium, which had probably escaped through some aperture in the external coat of the aorta, not shown in the pre- paration. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 57, No. 100. Presented by H. Page, Esq. 111. The Base of a Heart, with the Arch and Thoracic portions of the Aorta. About half an inch above the valves, there is an oblique rent about an inch long, extending through the inner and part of the middle coat of the aorta. The margins of the rent are soft and ragged. The blood passing through it has extended between the layers of the middle coat of the artery, through