245 DISEASES OF THE HEART, &c. orifice is reduced to an irregular chink, about an inch long, and from one to two lines in width. On the auricular surface of the diseased valves there are also projections of earthy matter, and deposits of layers of fibrine. The lining membrane of the left auricle is thickened and opaque: so also are the tricuspid and pulmonary valves, and, in a much greater degree, the aortic valves. The pericardium was universally adherent, and in several places, especially on the anterior surface of the ventricles, portions of bone have been formed in the adhesions. Some of these have been exposed by dissection. The whole heart is enlarged, all its cavities being dilated and hypertrophied in nearly equal proportions. From a man twenty-seven years old. He could not remember to have been ever free from signs of disease of the heart, but they were greatly aggravated after an attack of acute rheumatism. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 189, No. 209. 60. Part of a Heart, in which there is a large mass of firm medullary matter in the substance of the apex of the right ventricle, and of the septum. The morbid mass has not altered the external form of the heart, but it projects with a coarsely granular surface into the cavity of the ventricle, and has raised up the tricuspid valve: in its middle, its substance is softened and broken down. The pericardium is in every part closely adhe- rent. The aorta is dilated, and both it and its valves have earthy deposits in them. From the patient, from whom the eye, Series IX. No. 17, was extirpated. He died two years after the operation with this medullary disease of the heart, similar deposits in the lungs, and a large medullary tumour on the lower jaw. 61. Portions of the left Ventricle of a Heart, in the middle of the muscular substance of which there is a small spherical mass of tuberculous matter, about two lines in diameter. The surround- ing tissue is healthy. From a negro, thirty years old, who had tuberculous disease of the lungs, liver, spleen, and intestines. 62. A Mitral Valve, with some of the adjacent parts. The sub- stance of the valve is!generally somewhat thickened; and the middle of its left portion has been distended into a small bilocular pouch, like an aneurism. The pouch projects into the cavity of the left auricle: it is about three-quarters of