INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 15.", there is no union. The surfaces of the head, and of the space between the trochanters, which were in contact, are nearly smooth and very hard. Irregular osseous deposits have taken place around the fractured surface of the neck, and upon the head of the bone. 53. Sections of a Femur, in which, as in c. 49, there has been frac- ture through the base of its neck, and through the trochanter major. There is a firm union of the fractured surfaces, but with the same displacement as in c. 49. 54. Portion of a Femur, in which recent fractures extend through the base of the neck, obliquely downwards through the tro- chanter major, and transversely across the upper part of the shaft just above the trochanter minor. 55. Portion of a Femur, in which there is a fracture extending vertically through the neck, from the upper margin of the head to the middle of the lower margin of the neck. 56. Section of a Femur, in which there has been fracture extend- ing through the base of its neck, and through the base of the trochanter minor. The lower margin of the neck is impacted in the cancellous tissue between the trochanters. There is firm union of the fractured surfaces. 57- Sections of a Femur, in which there has been fracture ex- tending obliquely through the trochanter major and the base of the neck into the posterior part of the shaft. There is a firm union of the fractured surfaces, but the two portions of the trochanter major are separated to some distance from each other. The patient was a woman sixty years old. After a fall on her hip, she had signs which led to the suspicion of dislocation of the head of the femur; for the posterior portion of the fractured trochanter major, being drawn backwards towards the ischiatic notch, felt like the head of the hone. She died about three years after the accident. The case is described by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Cliirurgkal Transactions, Vol. xiii. p. 505, London, 1825. Case- Book, Vol.i.p. 74, No. 115. 58. The bones of a Knee-Joint. There has been a transverse