DISEASES OF BONE. I I 32. A large Cyst connected with the upper part of the Tibia. The disease seems to have commenced in the head of the tibia. The greater part of the wall of the bone is absorbed, so that the parietes of the cyst are formed above by the cartilage which covered the head of the bone, and in nearly all other directions by condensed fibro-cellular tissue, or the distended periosteum. A large portion of the cyst has been removed, to give a clear view of its interior, which is uneven, in parts fasciculated and coarsely retiform, in other parts shreddy. It probably contained blood and had its origin (like the similar specimen, No. 220) in a medullary tumour growing within the head of the bone. 33. Portion of Integuments removed from a diseased bone, exhibit- ing a peculiar change of structure in the skin, with thickening and consolidation of the subjacent parts. 34. A Section (cut with a knife) of the Femur of a Ricketty Child, curved in consequence of the want of its natural hardness. The shaft, instead of the natural division into solid walls and medullary cavity, consists throughout of cartilaginous and gela- tinous substances intermixed and disposed in cells. It is observable, that a greater quantity of the cartilaginous substance exists in the middle of the shaft and towards the interior curve than at any other part. The articular ends of the bone are in a natural state. 35. Sections of the Femur and Tibia of a Ricketty Child. The bones, which had become curved through a want of their natural hardness, have recovered their osseous texture and their inflexi- bility, but the curvature remains. In the femur, the walls of the bone in the middle and along the interior curve of the shaft have acquired a greater thickness than elsewhere. The tibia is solid in the situation of the chief curvature; and in the same situation it is flattened from side to side. The two preceding specimens arc described by Mr. Stanley, in the Medioo- Chirwrgkal Transactions, vol. vii. p. 404, London, 1016. 36. Fragments of the upper part of a Skull increased to from half an