Ill DISEASES OF JOTNTS. . '!;">. Pelvis and Femora, from a young man. The head of the femur and the acetabulum on the left side exliihit changes consequent on long continued disease of the hip-joint. The acetabulum is wider and shallower than is natural: the head of the femur, deeply ulcerated, has wholly lost its natural form. The ulcerated surfaces had healed, and the bones were united by a soft tissue which permitted a slight degree of motion between them. The left os inno- minatum and femur, atrophied, probably in consequence of their disuse, are considerably thinner and smaller in all their dimensions than the bones of the opposite side; and the left side of the pelvis is contracted by the nearly vertical position of the ilium. 46. An Os Innominatum and Femur, from a boy, exhibiting effects of disease of the hip-joint, similar to those shown in the speci- men last described. The walls of the acetabulum are in great part destroyed by ulceration, and its cavity communi- cates through three apertures with that of the pelvis. The head of the femur is also completely destroyed. All the bones are atrophied, and the ilium is placed almost vertically and deeply incurved. 47. Bones of two Knee-Joints from the same person. There has been inflammation in each joint, occasioning a deposit of new bone around the articular surfaces of both the femur and the patella. The patellae, displaced outwards, have been adapted to the outer condyles; and their articular cartilages having been completely removed, the opposite surfaces of the bones have been absorbed in regular and mutually adapted grooves, and are hardened, polished, and ivory-like. 48. The Pelvis and Femora of an adult. The head of each femur is dislocated upon the dorsum of the ilium. Portions of the capsules of the hip-joints remain, but there is no vestige of either ligamentum teres. There has been absorp- tion of the surface of the head of each femur, diminishing its size, and giving it an irregular conical form. The history of the case is not known. The dislocations may have been con-