INJURIES AND DISEASES UE TDK I\RA I N, &c. mass, an inch in diameter, and, apparently, composed of tuber- culous matter, was imbedded. The membranes of the brain are firmly adherent to the surface of the mass. 18. Portions of the Cerebrum, in which there are several masses of a morbid substance, apparently medullary matter, of various sizes, closely adherent to the substance of the brain. 19. Portions of Cerebrum, in the substance of which there are several, probably medullary, tumours of different sizes. The sections of some of these tumours show that they are of a firm consistence; and that blood is effused in the interior of some, and upon the surfaces of others. From a child one year and nine months old, whose testicle, with a large me- dullary tumour, was removed five months before death, and who had similar tumours in the lungs and other parts. The case is described by Mr. Earle in the Medico-CIiirurgical Transactions, Vol. iii. p. 59, London, 1812. Case-Book Vol. i. p. 60, No. 106. 20. Cerebellum, with the Dura Mater covering it, from a young subject. The natural structure of the cerebellum is almost entirely removed, and in its place there is a firm whitish substance, with specks of substance like bone scattered through it. 21. Portion of Cerebrum, exhibiting the cavity of an abscess in its substance. The walls of the cavity are irregular and very rough. 22. Portion of Cerebrum, exhibiting an abscess in its anterior lobe, which communicated with the lateral ventricle of the same side. The patient was a man forty years old, who appeared to die exhausted by syphilis and the effects of mercury. The only cerebral symptoms were extreme restlessness and delirium 'at night. The case is related by Mr. Earle, in the Medical and Physical Journal, Vol.xxiii. p. 89, London, 1810. 23. Several large portions of Cerebrum, which protruded in a case of Hernia Cerebri, and were removed during life. The patient was a boy twelve years old. He had fracture with depression about the rambdoidal suture. Portions of bone were removed without injury of the dura mater; and on the tenth day after the fracture, the-hernia of the brain