INJURIES AND DISEASES OP ARTERIES AND VEINS. 273 97. Portions of a Femoral Artery and Vein. The cavity of the vein is completely filled with dry, grumous, decolorized clots of blood and lymph, inseparably adherent to its coats. Its coats are thickened and indurated. The artery appears healthy. The patient was a young man who died with disease of the spine and phthisis. About six weeks before his death, oedema of the left lower extremities, witli other signs of obliteration of the femoral vein, ensued. 98. A Splenic Artery, exhibiting a deposit of earthy matter between its coats, and a small aneurismal pouch formed by dilatation of about half its circumference. 99. Arteries of a Leg, with portions of the surrounding Muscles, from a man in whom the peroneal artery was penetrated by a knife which passed transversely into the back of the leg from the inner side. The track of the wound into the peroneal artery is shown by the piece of coloured glass. The peroneal artery is unusually large ; the posterior tibial, into which a bristle has been introduced, is very small. The ligature was placed around the posterior tibial in the operation of searching for the wounded peroneal artery. The patient died with delirium tremens a week after the ligature of the pos- terior tibial. The direction of the wound led to the supposition that the posterior tibial artery was wounded; but the knife had passed in front of it and had not injured it. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 139, No. 163. 100. A Pulmonary Artery, with a portion of the Lung. The right branch of the pulmonary artery is completely filled by a firm coagulum of fibrine, closely adherent to its internal surface. The smaller branches are also filled by similar coagula. The portion of the coagulum in the lower part of the bottle acci- dentally separated in the examination of the body. The patient, a middle-aged lady, died suddenly during apparent convaleseence " r,LrVal 째f 1 'T medU,lary tUm째Ur 째f the ^ ****** i" Series 2- \ V CaS째 T by Mn Paget in the Medico-CMrurgkal Trans- actions, Vol. xxvn. p. 166, London, 1844. A Femoral Artery and Vein, from a man in whom, in advanced life, gangrene of the leg spontaneously arose several months before death, and extended high up the leg. The femoral artery, in its whole extent, is made rigid by the deposit of 101 I