52 FIRST SERIES. Nearly the whole of the vomer also has been destroyed, and the superior ethmoidal cells are laid open. The plug is preserved: it is composed of a large circular cork, with tape wound round it, and measures an inch and three quarters in diameter and an inch in depth. The history of the patient is unknown. She was brought from a workhouse to the dissectLg rooms', with the plug tightly and smoothly fitted m the roof of the mouth. 233. Section of a Femur affected with Mollities ossium The walls of the bone are thin, soft, and flexible, and their lamella, are partially separated. The place of its medullary and can- cellous tissue is occupied by soft, jelly-like, transparent fat, of various shades of yellow and pink: some of it was deep crimson. A similar kind of fat appeared to be diffused through the proper texture of the walls. Scarcely any of the osseous part of the medullary texture remains, except a thin layer beneath the articular surface of the bone. The perios- teum and articular cartilage are healthy. 234. Sections of the Upper part of the same Femur, and of"Ae Patella of the same patient, macerated. The fat diffus cl through their whole tissue is converted into adipocire throusn men wuu«. . neck of the femur is a little less oblique than is natural, but it is not shortened, nor is the shape of the head altered. ! iv thirty vears old The disease had been some years m progress, isr^r ^s ^ «r:7 «-— had been fractured by a slight force shortly before death. Presented by R. W. Tamplin, Esq. ,35 Section of an Ilium and of a Medullary Tumour covering a I ge extent of both its surfaces and extending through -t substance. The tumour is of oval form and reachesftom the crest of the ilium to near the margin of the acetabulum. It s composed of a soft, spongy, end flocculent, redd.sh me- dnl ary substance in which a few small cysts are scattered It is covered in by the thickened periosteum of the dmm. A II centre the substance of the ilium is irregularly broken and absorbed, s„ that here the tumours on each s,de of the bone are conn cted into one mass by the morbid substance d.ffused Tough its texture. Portions of .he iliacus and gluteus mcbus