SIXTH SERIES 194 Diseases of the ventricles and choroid plexuses, "26', 27, 41, 42, 64 Diseases of the pituitary body, 30, 73. Injuries and diseases of the principal bloodvessels of the brain and its membranes. Thickening, 28. Rupture, 38? 39, 59. Aneurism, 44, 59, G7, 68. 1. Portion of Dura Mater, exhibiting a newly formed membrane upon its internal surface. This membrane lines the whole of the dura mater covering the right hemisphere of the cerebrum ; its thickness is about equal to that of the peritoneum, and it is very vascular throughout: it has been completely separated from the dura mater, except along one edge, where it is still adherent; and it will be observed that this edge is insensibly lost upon the dura mater, so that the internal surface of the new mem- brane, and that of the dura mater, appear to be continuous. The outer surface of the membrane is rust-coloured, like par- tially decolorized blood. Towards its lower part, the new membrane is thicker than above, and it is here divisible into two distinct layers. The patient had been deranged for three years before his death. He had bad no signs of inflammation of the membranes of the brain, but, shortly before Ins death, had hemiplegia of the left side. The arachnoid beneath this layer of mem- brane'was thickened. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 7, No. 16. 2 Portion of Brain with its Membranes, exhibiting the same changes as the preceding specimen. The new membrane occupies an extent of some inches over the right hemisphere of the cerebrum ; it adheres firmly to the internal surface of the dura mater, and appears vascular. The patient had suffered for many years with disease of the urinary organs. He died with fever attended by pain in the head and delmum. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 8, No. 17. 3 A Specimen of the same disease as Nos. 1 and 2. The nw membrane is here very thick and compact, and has the same rusty colour as No. 1 : it has been partially separated from the dura mater, to which it was firmly adherent. 4. Portions of Dura Mater and Pia Mater. Blood and lymph are