SIXTEENTH SERIES. 314 cicatrized. The healed surface is contracted and irregularly wrinkled; and there are several small oval apertures in it, which have smooth margins and edges. From a patient fifty years old, in wIiobc lungs there were several masses of cal- careous substance, and dry grey tubercles, but who died of a disease independent of the condition of both the lungs and the intestines. Part of the lung is pre- served in Series XIV. No. 41. 72. Portions of a Rectum and Urinary Bladder, between which a wide communication is indicated by a piece of glass. The surface of the rectum, about eight inches from the anus, is extensively and deeply ulcerated; and at one part the ulcera- tion has spread through the thickened and indurated tissue con- necting the bladder and rectum so as to form the communica- tion just mentioned. The mucous membrane around the orifice in the bladder is thickened and covered by soft lymph. From a man, aged eighty-five, who died with asthma. He had not complained of any affection of tbe rectum or bladder till a week before his death, when he first noticed that air occasionally passed through the urethra. During the last week of his life, both air and faeces passed with his urine; the latter chiefly in small masses about as large as peas. Presented by Henry James, Esq. 73. The sigmoid flexure of a Colon, into the cavity of which an abscess opened from without. The abscess was seated in the cellular tissue connecting the outer part of the intestine with the wall of the abdomen, and a part of its cavity, which is very irregular in form, is shown at the back of the preparation. Portions of whalebone are passed through two short fistu- lous canals by which the abscess opened into the intestine. The apertures through the mucous membrane are oval and regular: their borders are sharp and even: and there is no thickening or other morbid change in the adjacent coats of the intestine. The disease was not observed during the life of the patient, who was a man about thirty years old, and died of pulmonary phthisis. The rest of the intestinal canal was healthy. 74. Portion of a Colon, from a patient who died with dysentery at the General Penitentiary, Millbank. Its mucous membrane is generally thickened and indurated: and there are numerous small, but deep, oval ulcers in it, with sharply circumscribed