DISEASES OE BONE. 65 their attachments to the tibia, having been hindered from separating more widely. The left tibia is increased in thick- ness as well as in length, chiefly by the expansion of its walls. The front wall is, in parts, an inch thick and com- posed of nearly uniform cancellous tissue : it is also more lengthened than the other walls. 47. Lower halves of a Tibia and Fibula firmly united for two inches above the ankle-joint, by the growth of a large irregular mass of bone from their posterior and outer surfaces. There is a deep groove for the passage of the tendons of the peronaei muscles behind this growth. A large ulcer had for many years existed in the outer and back part of the leg immediately above the ankle-joint. 48. Lower half of a Tibia, of which the walls are thickened and increased in density. The chief increase is in the anterior aspect of the shaft, where, also, the surface of the new bone on it is peculiarly rough, coral-like, and spongy ; characters indicative of new bone formed in circumstances of constant irritation. The irritation arose in this case from an ulcer of the integuments which had existed for a long time previous to the amputation of the limb. 49. Skull of a Man, who, fifteen years before death, received a violent blow on the head, and from whom, two years before death, the right eye was extirpated. All the upper part of the skull is increased in thickness and density. Its inner surface, especially on the right side, is marked by an unusual number of grooves and small apertures for blood vessels. The sutures are not obliterated. The right malar bone is somewhat depressed towards the orbit, and the ex- ternal and inferior angle of the right orbit is not so deep as that of the left. The right angle of the jaw is superficially ulcerated by the growth of a large cancerous tumour of the adjacent lymphatic glands. The eye which was extirpated is preserved in Scries IX., No. 17, and a por- tion of the thickened dura mater which covered the right hemisphere of the brain, in Scries VI., No. 6'3. F