210 SEVENTH SERIES. 4. Portion of the Dura Mater enveloping the bundle of nerves constituting the Cauda Equina. A tumour, of a firm fibrous texture, is connected with the external surface of the dura mater, and being wholly contained within the spinal canal, made considerable pressure upon the nerves. The patient, thirty-three years old, was suddenly seized with pains in the loins and paraplegia, with acute pain affecting the lower extremities. The paralyses extended upwards; sloughs formed on the sacrum; and he died two months after the beginning of his illness. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 56, No. 99. 5 The Lumbar Portion of a Spinal Chord, with the roots of the nerves and its membranes. There are numerous thin white plates of substance like cartilage connected with the arachnoid membrane, especially with that portion of it which covers the posterior surface of the chord. From a woman forty years old, who, for many years, had suffered severely from neuralgia in the left knee-joint. 6 Portion of a Spinal Chord, with its Membranes, exhibiting a firm, lobulated, morbid growth in the tissue behind and by the sides of the dura mater, within the third, fourth, and fifth dorsal vertebrae. The spinal chord was compressed by the morbid growth, but not otherwise altered. The patient was thirty-six years old. He had slight signs of the disease ahout fifteen months before death. For the last six months of Ins bfe he had para- p la The growth shown in the preparation, when recent, appeared vascuk , plegia. me g intervertebral foramina, with a firm, white, I verteot The vertebra, were softened, but in other respects healthy. Case- Book, Vol. i. p. 84, No. 120. 7 Part of a Spinal Chord from the dorsal region. A portion of it, about half an inch in length, is soft, and reduced to less th half its natural size. From a case of paraplegia, with angular curvature of the spine in. . I ■Itl years old. Opposite the contracted part of the chord a short process o :!^:Z lom Wangle of the curvature into the spinal canal. The po tion of spine is preserved, Series IV. No. 35. 8. Lower half of a Spinal Chord, the whole substance of which