13 DISEASES OF BONK. and osseous matter, the cartilage being arranged in nodules, and exactly resembling that of the foetal skeleton. The mor- bid growth is very closely connected with the periosteum in the whole circumference of the tibia, and at the upper part the osseous portion of the tumour is consolidated with the bone. The internal part of the tibia is sound. Presented by William Brewer, Esq. 42. Section of a Leg, exhibiting a growth of soft, vascular, warty fungus from its front part. The base of the growth is con- solidated with the periosteum, which, for some distance above and below, has become soft and spongy and has its connexion with the bone loosened. The bone itself is healthy, except that there has been an irregular ulceration of its external surface. 42a. Portions of the Tibia and Fibula, from the Leg last described, more plainly showing the ulceration of their anterior surfaces. From a woman thirty-five years old. She received a blow on the shin when ten years old, which was followed by abscess and discharge of small pieces of bone. The parts healed and remained well for many years ; but again abscess formed, and again healed ; and after this had been several times repeated, the growth here shown sprouted out, and the patient's health failing, the limb was removed. Case Book, vol. i. p. 1. No. 1. 43. Bones of a Knee-Joint, exhibiting a peculiar alteration of tex- ture. The diseased bone is not softened; it has a yellow colour, apparently from a peculiar firm deposit in its cancellous tissue. In some situations ulceration has taken place on the exterior of the diseased bone. The epiphyses are separated from the shafts. The articular cartilage is in some parts absorbed. 44. The other portion of the Femur last described. 45. An Os Innominatum, exhibiting a peculiar alteration of structure. The natural texture of the bone is converted throughout into a peculiar substance, which in the interior has a granulated, and on the exterior a fibrous, appearance, like the close-set short bristles of a tooth-brush. In the upper part of the specimen, the periosteum is separated, to display the peculiar fibrous substance which is between it and the surface of the ilium. From an aged person, whose liver contained many medullary tumours. Case Book, Vol. I., p. 124, No. 147.