lt> FIRST SERIKS. of new matter to their exterior, but upon a separation of the layers of their walls. Their whole texture is very light and brittle. From a boy ten years old, in whom the disease had existed three years. He recovered after amputation of the limb. Case Book, vol. i. p. 3, No. 7. 57. A Tibia, of which a part of the shaft has suffered Necrosis. New bone has been abundantly formed on all the rest of the shaft; but, especially in the proximity of the sequestrum, it has a peculiar dry, grey, light, and brittle texture. 58. A Child's Tibia, in which several pieces of the shaft have perished. Some of them are exposed, some surrounded by new bone. There are many round apertures in the new bone, lead- ing to the cavity in which the dead bone is contained. 59. A Tibia, in which there is a circumscribed oval ulcer which has destroyed the anterior half of its walls, laying open the me- dullary cavity. There is scarcely any appearance of reparation ; the edges of the ulcer are sharp and uneven, and the adjacent bone is light, but not otherwise unhealthy. 60. A Section of the upper end of a Fibula, and of a Tumour which is connected with it. The tumour consists of a mixture of bone and a softer fibrous-looking substance, and it appears to have arisen from the periosteum. 61. Sections of a Fibula, upon the external surface of which are several Osteoid Tumours—masses of compact white osseous substance, the outer surfaces of which have a fasciculated and finely fibrous aspect, like the surface of pumice-stone. Around these, the walls of the bone are in parts superficially ulcerated, and in parts thinly covered by new bone. The medullary cavity is partially obliterated by a similar substance. 62 Sections of the Bones of a Face, exhibiting an Osseous Growth ' filling up the maxillary sinuses. By the sections through the sinuses a small cavity appears remaining in each, and indicates, as the disease of the adjacent bones also does, that their oblitera- tion is the consequence, not of the growth of tumours into them,