5 DISEASES OF BONE. before the operation, the limb, by the complete separation of the sequestrum and the succeeding approximation of the ends of the femur, became one-third shorter than it had been. The rest of the patient's history is in the case of James Macdonnel, in a paper by Mr. Lawrence, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions^ vol. vi. p. 174. London, 1815. The patient lived thirty years after the operation \ his pelvis is preserved in Sub-series D, and his humerus in Sub-series A, No. 155. Case Book, p. 70, No. 111. 6. Section of a Tibia. A portion of its anterior wall has perished, and is surrounded by new bone, from which it may be distin- guished by its smoothness and peculiar whiteness. Between the new bone and the deeper portions of the dead bone there is a large quantity of soft vascular matter. 7. Tibia of a Dog, exhibiting a portion of its wall dead and in the process of exfoliation. The dead bone is distinguishable from the living by its whiter colour; its separation is almost complete. Between the dead and the living bone a space intervenes, which is filled by soft and vascular substance. New bony matter is heaped upon the living bone around the dead bone, as well as in a thick layer on that side of the shaft which is opposite the seat of the necrosis. The periosteum has been in part detached from the tibia, to show that the new bone is entirely beneath this membrane, having been formed between it and the surface of the original wall of the bone, with which, however, it has completely coalesced. The changes just described succeeded to the cauterization of the external surface of the bone. 8. Tibia of a Dog, from which a portion of the wall, nearly similar to that which is shown in process of separation in the preceding specimen, has entirely exfoliated. The surface from which the dead bone has been separated is very vascular; and new bone is deposited in considerable quantity on the surface of the shaft around and opposite to it. This preparation was made in the same manner as No. 7. 9. Section of the Tibia of a Dog, in which a large portion of the cancellous tissue and of the wall of the shaft perished. The dead bone lay in a cavity with very vascular walls, and new bone was in process of formation around it. The periosteum