gq FIRST SERIES. Which occupied the situation of the lymphatic glands in the ham and groin of the patient from whom the two preced.ng specimens were taken. The tumours consist of a hard osseous substance, which is displayed by a section of one of them. The femoral artery is sound, but its popliteal portion is com- pressed and altered in its course by its connexion with the bony tumours. The ligature upon the artery, about three inches below the origin of the profunda, was placed around it in consequence of the tumour in the ham having a pulsation and other characters like those of an aneurism. The patient was a man thirty years old. The swelling seemed to have its origin in a fall on the right knee; it began at the front, and gradually extended round the lower part, of the thigh. It pulsated like an aneunsm, and when a part of it was punctured, arterial blood flowed. The femoral artery bemg twd, L pulsation ceased and the tumour for a time diminished ; but xt afterwards again enlarged, and the patient died exhausted. The femoral artery was com- pressed and displaced by the diseased glands. The case » reco.decI by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxvm. p. 30o, 1S45. 111 Section of a Femur, and of a large spheroidal Tumour which has formed around it. In the upper part of the bone a frac- ture occurred several years before death. The two portions of bone overlapping have firmly united. The tumour, which nearly surrounds the middle of the shaft, is composed of a very firm substance, like fibro-cartilage. A portion of the same substance occupies the corresponding part of the me- dullary cavity, in which the disease has apparently commenced. 112 The other section of the Femur last described. Its walls are irregularly thickened, with expansion of their texture and deposit of new bone on their exterior; and together with irregular cavities in the medullary tube, there is thickening and induration of its osseous tissue. 113. Section of a Humerus from the same person as the last- described femur. It was fractured through the middle of its shaft some years before death. The fracture has firmly united, with a perfect apposition of the ends of the bone, and without any obliteration of its medullary cavity ; but there is the same disease of the walls and the cancellous tissue as there is in the femur.