272 THIRTEENTH SERIES. during its pulsations and in the interval" between them, but which could he stopped by pressure on the varicoBC aneurism. Long-continued pressure on this part produced, it was believed, the obliteration of the vein about six months before the patient's death. The ligature was applied to the femoral .-ut' :;, shortly after a sudden increase had taken place in the aneurism of the pos- terior tibial artery. The patient died with hemorrhage on the sixth day after the operation. The case is described by Mr. Perry, in the Medico-Cliirurgical Transactions, Vol. xx. p. 32, London, 1837. f!asc-Book, Vol. i. p. 64, No. 110. Presented by J. G. Perry, Esq. 92. Femoral, Tibial, and Peroneal Arteries, in the coats of which there is an abundant deposit of earthy matter, like that in No. 89. From an aged man, in whom mortification of the toes spontaneously occurred. 93. A long and slender branching piece of Bone, from the liver of a Sheep. It was probably formed in obliterated branches of the portal vein. 94. The Abdominal portion of an Aorta, with the Iliac Arteries, from an aged man. There is abundant deposit of both soft substance and earthy matter in the coats of all the arteries; and in the inner coat there are large irregular patches of ulce- ration. The aorta exhibits a partial dilatation just above the bifurcation. The common iliac and the internal iliac arteries, in addition to the above described alterations in their coats, are dilated into distinct pouches. 95. Femoral Vein from a Stump, amputation of the leg having been performed about three weeks before death. The vein is dilated, thickened, and indurated, and there is a deposit of lymph upon its inner surface. Only one pair of valves remain in the whole extent of the vein from Poupart's ligament down- wards ; the others, it is presumed, disappeared in the course of previous disease of the vein. The superficial veins in the leg were extensively varicose. In the amputation, on account of the hemorrhage from the vein, its extremity was tied. 96. Portion of the Spermatic Vein, from a woman in whom there was extensive medullary disease of the uterus and adjacent parts. The vein is dilated and filled by fibrinous coagulum deposited in concentric layers.