3J DISEASES OF BONE. A portion of the head of the bone remains, but it has been separated in the line of the epiphysis. 133. Section of a Tibia from a Boy, in which there has been Ne- crosis of a large portion of the whole thickness of the wall. The largest piece of the dead bone has been removed from the cavity in which it lay and is preserved in the next following preparation. The outer surface of this piece of dead bone, as well as of that which remains in this specimen, is quite smooth, the periosteum having separated without any portions of bone attached to it. On the inner surface of the separated periosteum, a layer of new bone, half an inch thick, and form- ing almost a complete new wall to the tibia, has been pro- duced. The outer surface of this new bone is covered by the old periosteum, the continuity of which with that of the arti- cular ends is shown ; and the inner surface of the new bone is lined by a soft vascular membrane, which was in close contact with the outer surface of the dead bone. A portion of skin is left, which formed part of the boundaries of an external ulcer, exposing the dead bone on the front of the leg. Presented by Sir James M'Gregor. 133a. The dead and separated portion of the Tibia last described. 134. Section of a Femur, with the Femoral Artery and Vein at- tached to it. The bristles in the cut surface of the femur mark the boundaries of a cavity in the bone which is filled by soft substance. From this cavity it was presumed, from the history of the case, that a portion of dead bone had been extracted during the lifetime of the patient. Upon the surface of the femur there is an irregular deposit of bone thickening its wall: and to this the femoral vessels are very firmly adherent. The femoral artery is sound and of its full diameter in its whole extent. The femoral vein is also of healthy texture, but is much contracted in that part which ad- heres to the femur and lies within the tendinous sheath con- taining the vessels just before their passage into the ham: below this part there are clots in both the vein and the artery. From a middle-aged woman, who died with dry gangrene of the leg.