INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BRAIN, &c. 205 61. The Acephalocyst Hydatid from the preceding brain. When full, it contained between five and six ounces of fluid. From a girl, five years old, in whom signs of cerebral disease had existed for a year before death. For the last three months of her life, she had partial paralysis of motion on the left side. The substance of the brain around the hydatid, as well as in every other part, was healthy. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 156. No. 182. 62. Portions of Brain, in which there are small circumscribed Medullary Tumours. The tumours are round, slightly nodu- lar, moderately firm, and, on their cut surfaces, appear granu- lar, with a mixture of a few radiating fibres. One of them is suspended separately. The adjacent cerebral substance appears healthy. There were many similar tumours in different parts of the brain, but chiefly on its surface. The patient was an elderly woman, who had suffered long with obscure cerebral symptoms. 63. A portion of Dura Mater, of which all that part which co- vered the upper surface of the left cerebral hemisphere was thickened. In some situations it is nearly half an inch thick, and its substance throughout is hard, and tough, and appears irregularly laminated. From a man who, eleven years before death, had a violent blow, by which it was supposed that his skull was fractured. The same patient's skull is preserved in Sub-series A. 49; his eye in Series IX. 17, 20 ; and his heart in Series XII. 60. 64. Part of the Brain of a Man twenty-eight years old, who had Hydrocephalus in his infancy, and whose head was enlarged and somewhat deformed in consequence of that disease. The whole of the internal surface of the ventricles is finely granu- lated, and appeared to be indurated. The inferior surface of the edges of the fornix is intimately adherent to the surface of the choroid plexus, and, through its medium, to the upper surface of the optic thalami. The mind of the patient appeared in no degree affected by this disease: he was a very skilful furniture-painter; and died of a disease independent of the state of his brain. 65. A Section of a Cerebellum and Pons, with a clot of blood recently effused in the middle of the Pons. The effusion appeared to be the cause of sudden death in a person who was already hcmiplcgic, from a former attack of apoplexy.