t84 I IIIRl) SERIES. 82. Section of a Rib with its cartilage. The rib had been separated from the cartilage, but has reunited to it. The union is effected by an abundant deposit of osseous substance, apparently in the texture of the periosteum and perichondrium, and in the con- tiguous cellular tissue around and for some way above and below the line of separation. 83. Section of a Skull-Cap, exhibiting a fracture extending in several directions through the anterior part of the parietal bones. In one situation there is a fracture of the outer, without any corresponding fracture of the inner, table. 84. Section of a Skull-Cap, exhibiting a comminuted circumscribed fracture of the outer and inner tables of one of the parietal bones. Many pieces of the inner table are depressed. During life the outer table was raised by the elevator; and it was supposed that the instrument was acting upon the whole thickness of the skull, whereas the fragments of the inner table remained unmoved. 85. Portion of an Ulna from an adult, split and detached by a fracture which was occasioned by the arm being caught m machinery. The fractured portion, about four inches in length, comprises in its whole extent about one half of the thickness of the ulna. It is remarkable that the bone was splintered to so great an extent longitudinally without the fracture passing at any part through the entire thickness of the shaft. The vacancy left in the bone by the removal of this fragment was filled by granulations; but, whether these granulations ossified could not be satisfactorily ascertained. 86. Radius and Ulna of a Dog. A portion of the middle of the shaft of the radius, in its entire thickness and with its peri- osteum, was removed ten weeks before the dog was killed. In the upper part of the bottle is the piece of bone which was thus removed. The vacant space was found filled by soft cellular tissue. The shaft of the ulna opposite to and corresponding with the vacancy in the radius, is considerably enlarged by the deposit of osseous substance beneath the periosteum.