DISEASES OF THE LUNGS, &c. <2W u 2 58. Portion of tlie lower lobe of a Lung, with cavities formed after circumscribed gangrene. The walls of the largest cavity are defined, and bounded by consolidated pulmonary tissue: they are irregular, and many small vessels are prominent on their surface. In the adjacent part of the lung are two similar cavities of smaller size. The pleura is thinly covered by organized false membrane. From a boy fifteen years old, who died a fortnight after receiving a severe com- pound fracture of the skull, which was followed by hernia cerebri. No sign of disease of the chest was observed. He had extensive suppuration between the membranes of the brain. 54. Portion of a Child's Lung, in which many bronchial tubes are dilated. The first portions of the larger tubes are of their natural size, but as they proceed in the substance of the lung, they become gradually wider; till near the surface of the lung they gradually contract, and appear to end in closed extremities! The walls of the dilated portions are thin, smooth, and not marked, as the others are, by the longitudinal elastic fibres projecting on their surface: the adjacent pulmonary tissue appears healthy. 55. Sections of a Lung, with Pulmonary Apoplexy. In some parts the effused and coagulated blood forms hard, dark, circum- scribed masses in the substance and at the borders of the lung: in other and more numerous parts, it appears like close-set, round, and oval spots or blotches of blood, in healthy pulmonary tissue J From a young man, who died with an aneurism of the arch of the aorta the sac of which communicated by threo small apertures with the trachea It' was believed that repeated small hemorrhages into the trachea had occurred during three or four days before death ; and that the blood had flowed down the bronchial tubes into the a r-nnlk oioncniai 56. Portion of Lung, in which there is an irregular oval abscess, with defined walls, smoothly lined by a thin layer of soft false mem- brane. The cavity was filled with thick yellow pus : branches of bloodvessels project upon its walls; and the surrounding substance of the lung is solid and very vascular, but not infiltrated with pus. From a man between fifty and sixty years old, who died with aneurism of the