47 DISEASES OP BONE. osseous tissue has formed, which nearly surrounds that part of the shaft which was not in a state of necrosis. From a. patient in whom the femoral artery was tied for the cure of an aneu- rism consequent on a wound. After the operation, extensive sloughs formed in the leg, and it was deemed necessary to amputate it ahove the knee. The stump sloughed, and the femur protruded; and the parts preserved in the prepa- ration were removed hy a second amputation, a month after the first. The patient subsequently recovered completely. A wax model of the leg hefore the first amputation is preserved, Cast 140. Case Book, No. 169, p. 145. 212. Section of the lower end of a Femur, in which nearly all the cancellous tissue within the condyles and for a short distance up the shaft is removed, and its place is occupied by a mass of brain-like medullary substance. The greater part of this substance is nearly white, but there are many spots in it of a deep red colour, from effused blood; and at the upper part is a section of a small cavity, which was filled by a soft gelati- nous material. The growth of the mass has expanded the internal condyle and the posterior part of the femur into a large round sac, of which the walls are partly formed by the articular cartilage and the periosteum. 213. Section of the anterior part of a Tibia, in which there are nu- merous small effusions of blood between the periosteum and bone, and in the superficial layers of the bone. From the same limb as the preceding specimen. The patient was a man twenty-seven years old; the disease had existed twelve months with obscure symptoms, and made steady progress till the limb was amputated. Case Book, Vol. i. p. 145, No. 169. 214. Section of the last Phalanx of a Great Toe. A small osseous tumour has grown from the anterior and upper part of the bone, and has elevated the nail; it is formed of cancellous tissue surrounded by a thin layer of compact substance. 215. Half a Pelvis, exhibiting the effects of the growth of Hydatids within the bones. The walls of the ileum are separated, and are in many places absorbed, so that there are large apertures in them, which open into a cavity extending through its whole interior. The same cavity com- municates with that of the pelvis by a large opening in the