INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. part of the artery which is directly above the sac, is a small conical clot completely filling its canal. The coats of the artery appeared healthy throughout. The external iliac vein is pervious to within an inch of the sac; but there it is ob- literated. The interior of the portion of sac which is preserved is irregularly wrinkled and tuberculated, but polished as if lined by a prolongation of the internal coat of the artery. The patient was a man thirty-five years old. The aneurism extended from Poupart's ligament nearly to the knee, and almost surrounded the limb. After the ligature of the artery the limb mortified, and the patient died in the third week with symptoms of tetanus. The case is related by Mr. Hodgson in his " Treatise on Diseases of the Arteries and Veins," p. 198, Case xxxv. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 14, No. 30. 28. The Arch of an Aorta, with the Arteria Innominata and Right Carotid Artery. There is an aneurism of the carotid artery, about half an inch below its division, for the cure of which a ligature was applied. A section of the aneurismal sac shows its cavity contracted and filled by layers of coagulum. A portion of straw is passed through the narrow opening of communication between the sac and the artery. The place where the artery was tied is marked by a portion of straw, which is introduced into the channel leading to the artery from which the ligature was withdrawn. Below the situation of the ligature, the artery is filled by a large clot of blood extending nearly to the division of the innominata. Above the situation of the ligature the coats of the artery are thickened, and lymph is deposited upon its internal surface ; and these appearances extend upwards to the division of the carotid into the external and internal branches, both of which are pervious. The coats of the aorta are thickened and tuberculated. The patient was a man fifty-two years old. The aneurism had been observed for a month, and appeared to be the consequence of an injury of the neck. He died in the fifth week after the operation, with suppuration in the artery above and in the tissues round, the sac. The ca9e is described by Mr. Vincent, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. x. p. 212, London, 1819. Case-Book Vol. i. p. Ill, No. 139. 29. A Vena Cava Inferior obliterated. The preparation consists of the remains of the vena cava, the right kidney, and a firm fleshy tumour which has been formed between them. Great part of the kidney is absorbed. The vena cava is s