DISEASES OK JOINTS. El 2 98 bone is loosened. The exposed surface of the bones is ven vascular. The patient was a boy aged fifteen. The disease bad been of only two month duration; it commenced, apparently, in the cellular tissue of the bam, and thenci extended into the joint. During the last fortnight of its progress the pain was ex tiemcly severe. The limb was amputated and the patient recovered. 46. Bones of the Knee and Ankle-Joints of a boy, in whom ulcera- tion, connected with necrosis, extended through both the upper and lower articular surfaces of the tibia. The articular car- tilages of the femur and patella are diseased in almost exactly the same manner as those in the preceding specimen are. The cartilage of the upper surface of the astragalus is almost wholly removed, and the exposed bone is covered with lymph. From the same patient as No. 195 in the preceding Series. 47. Parts of the Ulnae of an old woman. An exactly similar portion of the articular cartilage of each ulna has been absorbed ; and the space thus left on the surface of each is filled by a vascular growth like a process of the synovial membrane. The specimens are represented in the Medico-Chimrgical Transactions, Vol. xxv., PI. ii., f. 1,2; where they are also described by Mr. Paget, together with Nos. 33, 43, 52, 53, in this Series ; Nos. 253, 254, in Series I.; and other speci- mens of symmetrical diseases. 48. Bones of the Hip-Joint, from a boy eighteen years old, in whom disease of the hip had existed for twelve years before death. Part of the head and neck of the femur has been removed by ulceration. There has been also ulceration of the wall of the acetabulum, widening its cavity, and at one point penetrating into the pelvis. New bone has been formed in the bottom of the acetabulum, and was intimately united with the rough ulcerated surface of the femur. The disease of the hip was not in progress when the patient died with phthisis. 49. A Hip-Joint, in which acute disease had been several months in progress; from a boy ten years old. The head of the femur has been d.slocated from the acetabulum to the dorsum of the -hum. Ulceratton of the capsule had taken place, and the b?ad oi the bone was contained in a cavity formed by the re-