40 FIRST SERIES. 173. Section of the articular ends of a Femur and Tibia, and of an Astragalus, from a boy whose limb was amputated. The bones are enlarged, chiefly by the expansion of their cells. Some of the enlarged cells are filled by healthy marrow; others by semi-fluid jelly : and some by a substance present- ing all the characters of healthy cartilage. Both the knee and ankle joints are anchylosed by adhesion of the opposite surfaces of the synovial membrane, and in the ankle joint there is also a partial osseous union. 174. The remaining portions of the bones last described. The removal of the soft matter from the interior of the bones by maceration displays the enlarged cells, and unusually numerous thin osseous laminae along the medullary tube. On the card marked A, is the other half of the section of the shaft of the Tibia, and on that marked B, are portions of necrosed bone which were removed by the patient himself from his tibia five years before the amputation of the limb. 175 A Tibia in which there has been Necrosis of a large portion of the shaft, including a part of its lower articular end. The dead bone remains inclosed within a case of new bone. Presented by Gumey Turner, Esq. 176 Section of the Shaft of a Femur, exhibiting a fistulous cavity ' in its interior, with Necrosis of a small portion of the inner layers of its wall. Two bristles are placed in a groove ex- tending to some depth between the dead, and the contiguous living, bone. A vascular membrane, having a soft velvet-like surface, lines the fistulous cavity in the bone. The limh was removed by amputation. Thirty-five years previous to the amputation, the femur was fractured; this was followed by abscess in the soft 11 and the formation of a fistulous passage extending mto he cavUy m the Ltelr of the bone, which passage remained open during the whole penod from the fracture to the removal of the limb. Presented by James Pritchard, Esq., Leamington, 177. The other half of the bone, No. 176, macerated. 178. A cartilaginous and osseous Tumour, removed by operation