FIRST SERIES. G which belonged to the old bone covers this new bone; but many fistulous holes extend through it into the cavity which contained the old bone. The walls of the bone were perforated, and the medulla destroyed. The bone was laid bare for that purpose at the part where now the largest aperture into the cavity exists. 10. Section of the Tibia of a Dog, in which the shaft of the bone, in its whole length and in nearly its whole thickness, died. The periosteum separated from it, and is thickened. Upon the internal surface of the separated periosteum, the formation of new bone has taken place in small irregular deposits; and it will be observed that these are all opposite to those parts on which the surface of the dead shaft is rough, making it probable that the new bone is formed on portions of the surface of the old shaft, which separated with the periosteum and served as a kind of nuclei for the growth of new bone. The old bone, at its extremities, still retains connexion with the periosteum; hence it has received some of the fluid injected into the blood vessels* The death of the bone was produced by the destruction of the medulla, as in No 9. 11. Sections of the Tibia of a Dog, in which, as in the preceding, nearly the whole shaft of the bone has died. The dead bone is in process of separation, and new bone is formed around it in much larger quantity than in the preceding specimen. The periosteum which belonged to the old bone covers the new bone. The death of the bone was produced by the destruction of the medulla, as in No. 9. 12 Section of the Tibia of a Dog, exhibiting the process of repa- ration after a small portion of its anterior wall had been re- moved. The space left by the lost bone is partially filled by new matter, like granulations growing from the medulla, and bone is formed on the surface of the shaft around it. new 13 Section of the Tibia of a Dog, in which necrosis has been produced in the outer layers of a small portion of its wall. The dead bone is distinguishable by its yellow colour. The living bone around it is increased in vascularity, and m one