92 SECOND SERIES. months. H originated in a blow, after which the joint remained verj Btiff, but without vain and with little swelling, for twelve the. Numerous m„ II swellings, like enlarged lymphatic glands, then formed around the joint; they inflamed, and when punctured discharged a glairy fluid. The disease outs.de the joint in reasing, the limb was amputated. On examination the swe.hngs wore found to have no connexion with the interior of the jo.nl. The difficulty ol motion in the joint, especially the hindrance to the rotation of the rad.usap- peared to depend on the projecting folds of the synovial membrane. Case Book, Vol.i. p.4, No. 11. 13. The lower ends of a Radius and Ulna, with the bones of the Carpus and Metacarpus, exhibiting extensive disease in and about the carpus, with necrosis of the lower end of the radius. A considerable portion of the end of the radius, already deeply ulcerated, died and was in process of exfoliation. The carti- lage between the ulna and the carpus is completely destroyed. The ulna and the bones of the carpus have had their cartila- ginous surfaces destroyed by ulceration, and anchylosis has taken place between them, both by adhesion of their surfaces and by thickening and consolidation of the surrounding parts. 14 A Hip-Joint, exhibiting the effects of inflammation. The cartilage has been completely separated both from the head of the femur and from the acetabulum, and some shreds and ulcerated remnants of it are loose in the cavity of the joint. The lio-amentum teres is destroyed. The exposed bones are superficially but smoothly ulcerated. The cavity of the ace- tabulum is enlarged by the ulceration of its walls. The cap- sule is thickened, and its synovial surface appears swollen, soft, and thinly covered by lymph. The patient was a sailor, forty years old. He awoke one night wHh m ense oain in the hip, which lasted some hours, and then in a less degree continued, S in a i he bruised his hip. After this the pain again became^xceedmgly severe; and tfiis continued, without remission, till he died. Case Book, Vol.,. p. 5, No. 12. U Portion of a Femur, of which nearly the whole head has been ' destroyed by ulceration. The uneven rough surface of what remains is covered by shreds of false membrane, by which, probably, it was fixed in the acetabulum. 1G. Portion of a Child's Femur, of which the greater part of the