THIRD SERIES': SUB-SEIUES C. tions are firmly united, but with lateral displacement, both the upper fragments being placed on the inner side of the lower ones. The fractured ends are rounded and con- tinuous with the bonds of union. A long narrow process of bone projects from the end of the upper portion of the fibula. 111. The upper part of a Skull, with a depression of a small oval portion of the right side of the frontal bone, from a fracture received a long time before death. Both the surfaces and the margin of the depressed part are smooth; but on the inner surface are traces of a starred fracture of the inner table. 112. The upper part of a Femur, and sections of an Os Innomi- natum. On the upper part of the shaft of the femur there are no remains of the head or neck; but between the tro- chanters is a large and slightly convex surface, increased by broad flat growths of bone from its sides. The cavity of the acetabulum is nearly filled up; there remains only a slight concavity adapted to the surface between the trochanters. The notch of the acetabulum, and the space at which the vessels entered, remain distinct. The form of the osseous substance by which the acetabulum is filled up, makes it probable that it is the head of the femur which was sepa- rated, while it was still in the state of an epiphysis, and was united by bone to the walls of the acetabulum. This supposition is made more probable by the history of the case. The patient was a woman, sixty years of age, who, when she was eight year* old, bad a fall on her hip, and was believed to have fractured her thigh. Her limb was always shortened afterwards; but she had never had abscesses, or any other sign of ulcerative disease of the hip-joint. Presented by Henry James, Esq. ; 113. The upper part of a Femur, fractured at the junction of the head and neck a fortnight before death. The portion of the neck which remains attached to the shaft is much reduced in size, so that it no longer corresponds to the other fractured surface. There was no shortening or eversion of the limb in this case. The eHge of the fractured neck rested against the edge of the acetabulum.