244 TWELFTH SERIES 57. A Heart, very much reduced in size, but in which the propor- tions of its several parts are preserved, and its tissue appears healthy. It weighed five ounces and four drachms. It mea- sured a little less than four inches across the base, and five inches and a quarter from the base to the apex. From a man fifty years old, of middle stature, who died with carcinoma of the stomach, in a state of extreme emaciation. 58. A Heart, with a Sac attached to the left side of its left ventricle. The sac is spheroidal in form, and upwards of three inches in its greater diameter. Its walls are composed of the exterior of the ventricle, the pericardium, and a dense tissue by which the opposite surfaces of the pericardium were adherent. It is lined by irregularly laminated coagula: the phrenic nerve runs over its anterior part; it communicates with the cavity of the ventricle by an oval aperture, about a quarter of an inch in diameter, the margins of which are smooth and round. A portion of white glass is passed through this aperture. The muscular substance of the ventricle immediately around the aperture has disappeared, and is replaced by a dense white tissue. The rest of the heart is healthy: but its exterior is covered by false membrane by which it adhered to the pericardium. It may be presumed, that there was in this case a rupture, or an ulceration, through the wall of the left ventricle; that the blood was prevented from being effused into the cavity of the pericardium, by adhesions previously formed between its two surfaces; and that these adhesions, and the pericardium for a considerable distance around the aperture, were stretched by the force of the blood, so as to form the sac, in nearly the same manner as a false aneurism is formed after the destruction of the coats of an artery by the distension of its sheath. From a woman thirty-seven years old, who had had syphilis for many years in its worst form. She had long been under observation at the Penitentiary ; but had presented no distinct sign of disease of the heart. She died with dysentery and slight bronchitis. Presented by Dr. Baly. 59. A Heart, in which, by thickening and contraction of the mitral valves and its tendinous chords, the left auriculorventricular