DISEASES OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. 21.9 12. Sections of a Tumour, which was removed from the cavity of the orbit, with the eye and the optic nerve. The tumour ad- heres to the back part and sides of the sclerotica; and the optic nerve, elongated, passes through its axis. The tumour is lobulated, firm, and compact, and it was of a light yellow colour. The recti muscles, unaltered, adhere to it externally. The eye was protruded from the orbit. The humours have escaped through an ulcerated aperture in the cornea. The sclerotica is natural. The retina and the choroid membrane are collapsed, and occupy the axis of the eye between the entrance of the optic nerve and the iris. The space thus left between the choroid and the sclerotica is occupied by a firm clot of blood : and blood is effused in the optic nerve. 13. A Mass of flattened oval form, and upwards of an inch in diameter, which was removed from an orbit. It apparently consists of the lachrymal gland enlarged and changed in struc- ture : its texture is firm: its cut surface is granulated, and intersected by white lines. The patient was a gentleman twenty-seven years old. The disease commenced five years before the removal of the disease. In a year and a half from its com- mencement the globe began to be protruded, and in three years, with increased displacement of the globe, the sight became impaired, and was at length totally lost. After the removal of the disease, the eye returned to its position, the patient completely recovered his sight, and remained well. The case is related by Mr. Lawrence, loc. cit. p. 802. 14. Portion of the Skull of the Patient, whose left Eye, extirpated nineteen years before death, is preserved in No. 6. The left orbit has undergone no change in either form or size. 15. Sections of an Eye, with a large mass of soft pale medullary substance which filled the orbit. The eye and the optic nerve have undergone no change of structure, but are compressed by the morbid growth, which is closely attached to the posterior part of the sclerotica, and appears to have been wholly external to the eye. This specimen was removed from an old woman. After the healing of the wound there was a reproduction of the morbid growth. 16. Portion of an Eye, which was removed in a case of Staphyloma.