65 DISEASES OF JOINTS. from a Knee-Joint in which it was loose. The central part of the mass appears to be osseous. 26. A similar, but rather smaller specimen, in which, also, specks of osseous substance are formed at the centre. 27. The Base of a Skull, exhibiting disease in the right articulation of the Lower Jaw. Ulceration, commencing in the surface of the glenoid cavity, has extended both widely and deeply in the adjacent bone, and new bone is formed around the ulcerated surface. 28. A Knee-Joint, exhibiting numerous growths on its internal sur- face. The growths are of various sizes, nodulated, grouped, and attached, for the most part, by narrow pedicles. They are most abundant about the margins of the articular surfaces of the bones. Some of them are cartilaginous, others osseous; and there are some which consist of fat covered by a thin membrane, like a reflection of the synovial membrane. The heads of the bones are enlarged, their articular cartilages are removed, and the exposed surfaces are hard and polished. The disease had existed for more than two years with signs of chronic inflam- mation of the synovial membrane. There were four ounces of fluid " like train oil" in the cavity of the joint. The patient recovered completely after the am- putation of the limb. Presented by Thomas Fereday, Esq. 29. Section of a Knee-Joint, the articular surfaces of which are united by false membrane and bone. The patella is united to the inferior part of the outer condyle of the femur, and their respective cancellous tissues have coalesced. The tibia and fibula are drawn backwards under the femur. The external lateral ligament is changed in its direction and elongated. The other section of the joint is preserved in the next Sub-scries B. 41. 30. Bones of an Elbow-Joint, exhibiting the effects of inflammation which, probably, commenced in the joint. The texture of the bones has become porous and spongy: their articular surfaces are ulcerated ; and upon the external surface of each bone,