FOURTH SERIES: SUB-SERIES D. 13. Portion of a Spine, in which the bodies of two dorsal ver- tebrae are completely destroyed by ulceration, and those of two others were in progress of removal. - 14. Portion of a Spine, in which the bodies of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae are almost completely destroyed by ulceration, and those of three others were in like progress of removal. The diseased bone is rough and uneven, but retains its natural hardness. There is no angular curvature. 15. Portion of a Spine, with a strong lateral curve in which all the dorsal and the first lumbar vertebrae are comprised. The aorta and the vena azygos have been injected, to show the change in their direction, corresponding with the altered form of the spine : their diameter is not lessened. . 16. A Spine, Thorax, and Pelvis, from an adult woman. All the dorsal and the first two lumbar vertebrae are comprised in a lateral curve, the convexity of which is directed to the right, and backwards. There are slight compensating curves in the cervical and lower lumbar regions of the spine. The bodies of the vertebrae and intervertebral spaces are much deeper in the convexity than in the concavity of the curve; they are also twisted round, so that what were their anterior surfaces are directed outwards, towards the convexity of the curve ; this outward direction being chiefly observed in those vertebrae which are in the middle of the curve, while those at each end of it gradually approach nearer to their natural direction. Connected with this twisting of the bodies of the vertebrae, is a narrowing of the space between the spinous processes and the right transverse processes of the vertebrae, although the spinous processes are directed rather towards the left side, that is, towards the concavity of the curve. The space between the spinous and left transverse processes is somewhat increased in width and depth. The thorax projects obliquely forward, and to the left, and its sides are flattened. The posterior portions of the right ribs are directed downwards, lying nearly in contact with the vertebrae ; and then, bending abruptly round the