280 THIRTEENTH SERIES: SUB-SERIES P. the situation of the ligature and the axilla is in Series VIII. No. 4. The circulation was maintained chiefly through the enlargement of the supra-scapular and infra-scapnlar arteries. f. 2. A Fore-arm, exhibiting the anastomosis and enlargement of Arteries consequent on division of the radial a little above the wrist. The principal anastomosis is effected by a large artery passing from the interosseous, at the lower edge of the pronator-quadratus muscle, across the front of the radius, to the radial artery about half an inch beyond the point of its division. f. 3. A Limb in which the Femoral Artery was tied in the middle of the thigh, eleven years before death, for the cure of a popliteal aneurism. The portion of artery obliterated by the ligature is about two inches in length, and extends to the origin of the profunda. Below this obliteration the artery was found open, but contracted, to its entrance into the ham where the aneurism was situated. The injection of the ves- sels displays the collateral branches by which the circulation was continued ; these are situated chiefly at the back of the thigh and close upon the femur. f. 4. Part of a Lower Extremity in which the Femoral Artery was tied fifty years before death, for the cure of a popliteal aneurism. The portion of artery obliterated by the ligature and by the aneurism extends from the profunda downwards to the division of the popliteal. A mass of earthy matter occupies the situation of the obliterated artery in the upper part of the ham. The anastomosing vessels, by which the circulation was continued, are chiefly at the back of the thigh. This operation was performed by John Hunter, and it was the fourth case in which he tied the artery at a distance from the aneurism. The case is recorded in the " Transactions of a Society for the Improve- ment of Medical and Surgical Knowledge," Vol. i. p. 138; and in Hunter's Works, Vol.iii. p. 604, London, 1837. Presented by Thomas Wormald, Esq.