124 THIRD SERIES. cent parts of the occipital and parietal bones occurred four years before death. Some portions of bone, detached by the fracture, were removed at the time of the accident: other por- tions were left, and have been re-united by bone. There is also a close union by bone of two lines of fracture extending outwards through the parietal bones. The margins of all the broken portions of bone have been smoothly rounded, and their exposed diploe is covered in by compact bone. Case Book, Vol. i., p. i., No. 4. 39. A Wrist-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the carpal ends of the radius and ulna backwards. The radius is arched with a con- vexity directed backwards, near its lower end: but there is no appearance of its having been fractured. 40. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting an irregular fracture through the base of its neck, which occurred about five months before death. The periosteal and synovial coverings are torn upon only the posterior side of the neck of the bone ; upon its an- terior side they are entire. The portion of the neck which remains connected with the head of the femur is not absorbed. The patient, a middle-aged man, fell in the street, and his hip struck against the curh-stone. Immediately afterwards the limh was inverted, and an inch shorter than the other; but no crepitus was felt. In the suspicion that disloca- tion existed, repeated attempts at reduction were made. The case is recorded by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xiii., p. 508. Lon- don, 1825. Case Book, Vol. i., p. 73, No. 113. 41. A Radius and Ulna which were fractured a considerable time before death. The overlapping ends of the bones are united by thick tough layers of fibro-cellular tissue. They have been in part separated, to show the mode of their union. 42. A Shoulder-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the humerus, which occurred eighteen months before death. The head of the humerus rests on the anterior surface, near the inferior border, of the scapula. The tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra- spinatus, teres minor, and sub-scapularis muscles are entire. A bristle is passed beneath the tendon of the sub-scapularis, close to its insertion. A bristle is also passed beneath the