:i07 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP INTESTINES, &c. x 2 81. Portion of a Rectum, the cavity of which, at its upper part, is contracted to a quarter of an inch in diameter, without any visible change of structure. The contraction includes about an inch of the length of the intestine : it was probably occasioned by the action of the muscular fibres. 32. Portion of a Rectum, exhibiting a general thickening and indu- ration of its coats, and a very close annular stricture between two and three inches from the anus. Above the stricture the intestine is dilated, and its muscular coat is thick and strong ; below it, there is diffuse superficial ulceration of the mucous membrane. A portion of quill is passed through the strictured part. 33. A Rectum, exhibiting a contraction of its cavity which com- mences two inches above the anus, and is thence continued four or five inches upwards. The coats of the intestine are generally thickened and indurated, and the divided edges exhibit white bands intersecting a very firm substance. The cellular and adi- pose tissue around the rectum is also thickened, and is converted into a hard brawny substance, in which the posterior surfaces of the uterus, vagina, and broad ligaments are involved. 34. Portion of a Rectum. Its coats are generally and greatly thick- ened, indurated, and consolidated with each other and with the surrounding parts. Just above the anus there are numerous ulcerated apertures, with smooth edges, which lead through the walls of the rectum into short fistulous canals in the surround- ing indurated tissue. One of the canals extends beyond this tissue through the coats of the bladder into its cavity. 35. Portion of a Rectum, exhibiting a fistula, which extends from the anus upwards between the fibres of the levator ani muscle and the longitudinal muscular fibres of the intestine. A bristle is passed through the fistulous passage; it does not open into the rectum. m. Portion of a Rectum from a young person. A quill is passed through an aperture in the upper part of the intestine where it