51 DISEASES OF BONE. 227. A large portion of the Upper Jaw-bone of a child, exfoliated after Cancrum Oris. 228. The last phalanx of a Thumb which exfoliated, almost entire, in a case of Whitlow. 229. The lower part of an Os Coccygis which necrosed and exfo- liated after a fall on the buttocks. The patient had imperfect power over the lower extremities from the time of the accident, and died after long-continued suffering with extensive abscesses in the perineum. The dead bone was removed after death. Presented by Carston Holthouse, Esq. 230. The upper half of a Femur, round a portion of which a thin, flat, nodulated, medullary growth, of a soft, spongy, and ob- scurely-fibrous texture formed. The shaft at the part enclosed by the diseased structure was broken by a slight force. Its texture at this part appears soft, and is perforated by many small apertures. Prom a woman forty-three years old, whose right breast had been removed, with a medullary tumour in it, three months before death. 231. Sections of a small oval Tumour, composed of cartilage and bone, which was removed from the inner and lower part of a Femur. The cartilaginous part of the tumour forms a smooth layer, from one to two lines in thickness, which invests the osseous part, and is itself invested by a thin layer of fibro- cellular tissue. The osseous part of the tumour is formed of a delicate cancellous texture, filled with medulla, and was attached to the femur by a narrow base. 232. The base of a Skull, from an elderly woman who appeared to have been long in the habit of wearing a plug to close an opening in the palate. The opening, gradually enlarging, attained such a size that nothing remains of the palatine por- tions of the superior maxillary and palate bones, and the alveolar border of the jaw is reduced to a very thin plate, without any trace of the sockets of the teeth. The antrum is on both sides obliterated by the apposition of its walls, its inner wall having probably been pushed outwards as the plug was enlarged to fit the enlarging aperture in the palate. e 2