FIRST SERIES: SUB-SERIES A. 8G The shaft of the right femur is enlarged by external deposit of new bone. The muscles of the left limb were small and in a state of fatty degeneration. u 152. Skeleton of an aged woman in which, with curvatures of the spine and an altered form of the chest, there is atrophy o the bones in the right lower limb. The spine has suffered three distinct curves, one to the left in the loins, a second to the right implicating the lower dorsal vertebrae, and the third to the left, extending from the middle of the back to the neck. The ribs are distorted in adaptation to the curvatures of the spine. The cavity of the chest is altered in its form and dimensions: its anteroposterior axis is direct, but its sides are flattened. The pelvis is well formed. The bones of the right lower limb are considerably smaller in all their dimensions than those of the opposite limb ; in partial compensation for their shortness, the posterior part of the os calcis is elongated, and pointed almost straight downwards. A 153. A Femur, on the middle of the shaft of which, on its outer and front aspect, is a large flat, broad-based and pointed osseous growth, like a. 129, and 137. A. 154. Bones of the Fore Leg of a horse, on which are numerous nodulated and rough growths of hard bone They form a very large mass around the distal extremity of the metacarpal bone. a 155. Sections of a Humerus, in which, though the shaft is scarcely enlarged, many parts of its cancellous tissue are con- solidated. In the place of the medullary tube there remain only several small isolated cavities which were filled by marrow. Where the cancellous tissue is not quite con- solidated, its osseous lamellae and fibres are thickened, so that the spaces between them are much encroached upon From the same patient as the femur, No. 5 in the preceding Senes He Vnd W suffered from scrofulous inflammation of the elbow and ulcers of uppl 1 after the amputation of the thigh ; but they had healed many years before death.