THIRD SERIES. 130 of osseous substance upon the anterior surface of the second bone immediately below the projecting end of the first. The dislocation occurred five months hefore death, in an elderly man who fell from a tree. He died with cancer of the oesophagus. The other half of the sternum and the oesophagus, arc in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Presented by Joseph Swan, Esq. 65. Section of a Humerus, in which a fracture of the middle of the shaft occurred five weeks before death. The ends of the bone are not united ; but they are held firmly together by a ring of rough osseous substance deposited on the whole circumference of their outer surfaces, and extending some way above and below the fracture. 66. The other half of the Humerus, No. 65, macerated. 67. Section of a Tibia, in which are two fractures which occurred twelve weeks before death; one extends across its shaft, the other through the cancellous texture of its inferior extremity. The fractured surfaces are united only by soft substance. 68. A Hip-Joint, in which a dislocation of the Femur occurred a week before death. The capsule has been opened in front to show the head of the femur, which is deprived of many large portions of its cartilage, some of which are seen loosely con- nected with the neck of the bone. At the back part of the joint is the wide laceration in the capsule which was made by the head of the femur in its dislocation from the acetabulum. It was supposed that the dislocated head of the femur was situated upon the ischium, close to its spine. A portion of the posterior part of the rim of the acetabulum, in the presumed direction of the dislocation, is separated by fracture. Upon the front part of the joint there is also a detached portion of the rim of the acetabulum connected with the capsule. The surface of this piece of bone is very smooth, and is adapted to a cor- responding surface of the ilium immediately below the anterior inferior spine ; and above this surface, there is a deposit of bone, making it probable that the changes in this part of the joint were the result of some injury previous to the dislocation.