9 DISEASES OF BONE. there is a part of the tumour, which was lodged in a cavity of the bone formed by the absorption of its cancellous texture and by the separation of its anterior and posterior walls. The tumour consisted throughout of a red and fleshy mass, resem- bling a piece of lacerated spleen. 24. Sections of a Tibia, exhibiting a deposit of dense and very hard osseous substance, both upon the outer surface and within the medullary tissue of the upper two thirds of its shaft. The ori- ginal walls may be recognized on the surface of each section, but they have coalesced with the new bone. A circumscribed space upon the upper part of the shaft is covered by irregular plates of bone set vertically upon it. It is probable that on this space there was a softer portion of an Osteoid Tumour, which has been removed by maceration. See Nos. 60 and 108. 25. Section of a large Tumour growing from the lower part of the Femur, and composed of nodules of cartilage intermixed with osseous matter. Part of the morbid structure extends through the wall of the femur with which it is connected, and through the interior almost to the opposite side. 26. A Femur of which the shaft has been in great part destroyed by ulceration, or by the pressure of a tumour. Around the ulcerated part, the bone is rough and porous. Masses of bone, composed of fine osseous fibres, originally connected with the femur, have separated in maceration. Soft matter was mixed with these, and formed a large tumour around the femur, the remaining part of which is preserved in the next preparation. 27. Section, including the outer surface, of the Tumour last referred to. It consists for the most part of dense fibrous tissue, in which are mingled some fine bony fibres. At its centre its substance was broken up and formed a large irregular cavity. The Cast of the limb from which the two preceding specimens were taken,— No. 2. 28. A Sacrum, in the interior of which is a large cavity, which con- tained pus. The walls of the bone have been expanded around