101 DISEASES OF JOINTS. aperture in its synovial and fibrous covering, beneath which the surface of the bone is hard and nodulated. 53. The Bones and Ligaments of a Knee-joint. The anterior crucial ligament is wanting, and small portions of the articular cartilages of the femur and tibia have been absorbed, apparently after fibrous degeneration. The opposite joint was similarly and symmetrically diseased. 54. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting elongation of the capsule and of the liga- mentum teres. The ligamentum teres has separated through its whole length into three cords. The internal surface of the capsule is beset by small pedunculated membranous growths. The elongation of the capsule has allowed the head of the femur to pass to a considerable distance from the acetabulum, which is contracted to a small triangular cavity. Presented by W. J. Ward, Esq. An engraving of the specimen is published, with a paper by Mr. Stanley, " On Dislocations, accompanied by Elongation of the Ligaments," in the Medico-CMrurgical Transactions, Vol. xxiv., PI. iv. fig. 2, London, 1841. See also, for similar specimens, Nos. 24.31. in the next Series. 55. A Knee-Joint, in which during the course of long continued inflammation, the Tibia has been dislocated backwards and outwards. Firm anchylosis by fibrous tissue has taken place between the inner half of the upper surface of the tibia and the condyles of the femur. The patella is anchylosed to the outer surface and lower margin of the outer condyle of the femur. The external and internal lateral ligaments, retaining their normal attachments, are much elongated. 56. A Hip-Joint, in which there are portions of hard cartilaginous and osseous substance. They are fixed to the inner surface of the capsule, and to the anterior part of the neck of the femur, by adhesions of tough fibrous tissue ; their contiguous surfaces are exactly fitted to one another, and they form a nodulated, oval mass, nearly three inches long, one surface of which rested upon and was adapted to the neck of the femur. The capsule is thickened, and its interior is beset with slender pedunculated processes. From a woman upwards of seventy years old. The mass formed a distinct tumour projecting in the groin.