INJURIES AND DISEASES OF INTESTINES, &c. 317 the stricture communicate. The appearances are as if there had been an ulcer of the mucous membrane, the healing of which had been attended by contraction of the surrounding intestinal walls and adhesion of a part of its opposite surfaces. Both above and below the stricture the tissue of the colon appeared healthy: but its canal below was very small, while above it was enormously distended with faeces, and burst about two inches from the stricture. The patient was a lady about thirty years old. She had been for three years subject to occasional attacks of obstinate constipation, which were generally followed by diarrhoea. Four months before her death, the obstruction of the intestines became complete, and after this time she had no faecal evacuation. The cause of obstruction was found to be a cherry-stone which had lodged above the stricture in the colon, and completely closed the canal. Presented by Thomas Wormald, Esq. 83. A Caecum, with part of the Colon. There is a round ulcerated aperture through that wall of the caecum which was connected with the iliac fossa. On the exterior of the wall the margins of the aperture are uneven and ragged; on its interior they are smooth and clean. The portion of tissue which is attached to the exterior of the caecum around the aperture was part of the wall of a large abscess. The rest of the mucous membrane and the other coats of the caecum are healthy. The patient, an elderly man, had undergone the operation of lithotomy a week before death. Suppuration by the sides of the bladder and rectum, and all round the cavity of the pelvis, followed; and, extending into the iliac fossa under the pelvic fascia, some of the pus discharged itself through the fascia into the caecum a short time before death. 84. Portion of an Ileum, the cavity of which is distended by an oval biliary calculus, two inches and a half in length and an inch and a half in diameter. The peritoneal coat of the dis- tended part of the intestine is burst; and the other coats are thin and tense. The patient was a lady sixty-two years old, who had perfectly good health till within five days of her death, when she was affected by vomiting and constipa- tion. These were relieved on the third day, but shortly recurred, and she died tympanitic with complete intestinal obstruction. The calculus here shown had passed through a large ulcerated opening from the gall-bladder into the ileum. The other large calculus which lies loose in the bottle had passed through another ulcerated aperture into the colon, and was found in the caecum. Case-Book, Vol.i.p. 191, No. 212. Presented by John Havers, Esq.