INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 125 tendon of the long head of the hiceps, which retains its attach- ment to the edge of the glenoid cavity. Two bristles are passed beneath the circumflex nerve, which has been com- pressed by the dislocated head of the humerus, and is, in con- sequence, flattened and firmly adherent to the capsule of the joint. The dislocation was followed by permanent paralysis of the deltoid muscle. 43. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the Femur which oc- curred many years before death. The head of the femur has been thrown upwards and forwards, and is lodged in a cavity, formed in part by new bone, and in part by what appeared to be the displaced cotyloid ligament, at the margin of the ilium, in the situation of the anterior inferior spine. The ligamentum teres is flattened and elongated, but it retains its natural con- nexions ; bristles are passed beneath the two portions of this ligament, which are attached to the margin of the original acetabulum. The lower part of the head of the femur is irre- gularly absorbed. The patient was forty years old. When he was about fourteen years old, he fell from a ladder and injured his hip. He had great pain at the time of the accident, and for many months much difficulty in walking; but he recovered, and was in an active walking occupation till his last illness. The case is re- corded by Mr. Wormahl, in the London Medical Gazette, Vol. xix., p. 658, London, 1837. 44. The lower extremities of a Tibia and Fibula. A recent fracture extends through the articular surface and cartilage of the tibia. The communication of this fracture with the ankle-joint is closed by a thin layer of lymph firmly adhering to all the parts of the articular cartilage through which the fracture extends. 45. Sections of the Head, Neck, and part of the shaft of a Femur. The neck of the bone is considerably shortened, and there is irregular osseous deposit upon its external surface. It is uncertain whether these changes were consequent on injury. The external appearance of the bone might indicate that there had been a fracture of the neck ; but the uniform character of its tissue, as shown on the surface of the sections, is . opposed to such a conclusion. 46. Portion of a Humerus, in which distinct fractures extend ver- tically through both its condyles into the elbow-joint. The fractured surfaces are united by fibrous tissue.