55 DISEASES OF BONE. seat of numerous abscesses and fistulous passages ; but this bone alone was materially diseased. The patient, a young man, recovered after the amputation of the foot. 247. Sections of the front of a Lower Jaw, which was removed with a Tumour, like Epulis, of the gum. The tumour, of a rounded oval form and a firm obscurely fibrous texture, rose to the height of half an inch from the margin of the jaw and over- lapped both its surfaces. But one of the sections shows that the part of the jaw on which the tumour rested is in its own texture sound: its surface was smooth and the periosteum healthy. From a young woman in whom the disease had made slow progress. 248. Section of a Frontal Bone, with numerous lens-shaped Tumours, of various sizes from a line to two inches in diameter, thickly scattered through its substance. They grow from both surfaces, and from the substance of both tables ; there were also several in other parts of the skull, and some on the dura mater. The tumours consist of a soft medullary matter; and in many of them delicate osseous fibres, standing vertically on the surface of the skull, are imbedded. In the situation of the largest tumour, parts of which grow from corresponding portions of both tables of the skull, a similar medullary substance is diffused through the diploe. 249. Another Section of the same Frontal Bone macerated, and showing more plainly the osseous portion of one of the tumours, and the altered state of the diploe where the medullary matter was deposited. 250. Section of a Humerus, around the middle of the shaft of which a firm obscurely fibrous medullary tumour has formed. Within the tumour, the texture of the humerus, apparently infiltrated with medullary matter, is soft and brittle, and was broken during life by a slight force. The disease extends for a short distance into the medullary canal above and below the fracture; and a small round mass of cancer, like that in- vesting the shaft, is imbedded on the inner surface of the wall. From an old lady who had suffered for some months from pains like those of rheumatism in the arm. She died shortly after the fracture of the humerus. Presented by Herbert Evans, Esq.