50 FIRST SERIES. Was all covered by the synovial membrane, and all projected into the cavity of ZlTee- oint. ifhad been growing for two or three years, an had produ^d .reat pain and frequent attacks of inflammation of the knee-jomt The parent E?3* deep abscesses around the femur, about ten days after the operat.on. 223. Section of a Clavicle, in the interior of which a firm medullary substance has been deposited in large quantity. The pos- terior wall is but little changed; but the greater part of the anterior wall is lost in the interior of the tumour which grew to a great extent forwards. The shaft was fractured with only a slight force), and its portions are widely displaced without any attempt at union. 224 The other section of the same Clavicle after maceration. It ' shows more distinctly the characters of the osseous structure into which the anterior wall of the bone, which was chiefly involved in the growth, was changed. From a man sixty years old. Four yea,, before death, t^Ua e aspect of a small tumour gro.in, i ^ i„ Aftpr-this enormous masses ot a similar meuun." j 2^J!E£- in *.—- — -*• 225 Part of the Skull of a man about forty years old, who had a large malignant tumour of the face. The tumour appears to have originated at the nasal process of the left Verier maxillary hone and at the left uasa1 hone upon wh.eh there is a projecting growth of processes and plates of bone. ^ e tlonr, extendlg front this centre produced absorption of the inner attd lower par, of the left orb. t the tuner and auterior part of the right orbit, the septunt of the nose turbinated bones, and the middle and posterior par. of the palate. To a slight degree also it destroyed the left cnbrt form plate of the ethmoid bone, and the adjacent part of the upper wall of the orbit. At nearly all the parts of the bones upon which the tumour encroached, there ts a thm everted border of bone. 226 The last phalanx of a Great Toe, ou the inner margin of which, near its distal extremity, there is a flattened, broad, Osseous Tumour, composed of hard finely cancellous texture, and at- taled by a narrow base. The adjacent par. of the phalanx has spongy new bone deposited upon it.