815 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF INTESTINES, &c. borders, which extend down to the muscular coat, and in many instances lead to more widely spread ulceration in the sub- mucous tissue. The muscular and peritoneal coats appear healthy. 75. The last eight inches of an Ileum, in which there are several large circumscribed ulcers of the mucous membrane. The ulcers are nearly circular, and from a quarter to three quarters of an inch in diameter: some have coalesced and formed large and less regular ulcers. The bases of the ulcers are smooth and level, and are formed by the circular muscular fibres of the intestine, which appear healthy ; their borders are bounded, and to a small extent overlapped, by the adjacent mucous mem- brane, which, except in being rather thickened, appears to have preserved its natural texture. It is probable, as well from the history of the case as from the characters of the specimen, that these ulcers were formed in the separation of sloughs of Peyer's glands, in the course of typhus fever, and were in progress of healing. 76. Portion of a Jejunum, in which a tuberculous ulcer has com- pletely perforated the coats, making an aperture nearly half an inch in diameter at the bottom of an ulcer of rather wider ex- tent in the mucous membrane. At the upper part of the intestine there is another ulcer, which has at one part proceeded through the muscular, as well as the mucous, coat. The peri- toneal coat of the intestine is thinly covered by soft lymph. 77. Portion of an Ileum, in which the mucous membrane is swollen and soft, and in the recent state appeared succulent, as if infiltrated with serous fluid. The patches of Peyer's glands and the solitary glands are enlarged and prominent above the surface of the mucous membrane. 78. The lower portion of the Ileum, and part of the Ceecum, from the same patient as the preceding. The ileum exhibits the same state of disease in a more advanced degree, and its mucous membrane appears very superficially ulcerated. The csecum is healthy. The patient, a lad fourteen years old, was affected with diarrhoea during an attack of bronchitis, but appeared convalescent, when, four days before his death,