235 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE STOMACH. with ulceration. The ulcer is of an oval form; its edges are smooth and abrupt; its hase is hollow, but smooth ; the tissue around it is elevated and deeply wrinkled. 7. The Pyloric portion of a Stomach, in which, immediately beneath the mucous membrane near the pylorus, there is a broad, flat, and firm spongy tumour. The thick layer of tissue, which occupies the place of the muscular coat, between the tumour and the peritoneum, is very hard, and presents the same greyish striated appearance as that in No. 5. The patient was a man thirty-nino years old. Signs of the disease had existed for six months hcforo death. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 153, No. 176. Presented hy George Mantell, Esq. 8. The Stomach of a Child, presenting the appearances produced by digestion acting after death on the walls of the organ itself. There are four large irregular apertures through the coats at the great end and middle of the stomach. The edges of these apertures are soft and flocculent, and the remaining mucous membrane of the adjacent parts is soft, pale, and almost gelati- nous in its appearance. The child was ten years old, and died, after a short illness, with inflammation of the trachea. 9. The Stomach of a person who died in consequence of having taken Sulphuric Acid. The deep red colour, mottled with black, and extending throughout the interior of the stomach, is occasioned by blood effused from the eroded vessels and acted on by the acid. The greater part of the mucous membrane is destroyed; and the surface exposed is rough and shaggy. In the oesophagus and near the pyloric end of the stomach, portions of the mucous membrane remain, and are red, thick,' and corrugated. The duodenum of the same patient is in the next Scries, No. 45. 10. The Stomach of a person who died in consequence of having taken Oxalic Acid. The greater part of the mucous mem- brane is of a dark brown colour, and very soft. Small vessels full of black blood are in many parts traceable beneath it. In some situations it is so completely disorganized as to have