201 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE BRAIN, &c. portion of the septum lucidum, and has smoother and more even edges. 43. Portion of Cerebrum, with a small tumour which was imbedded between its convolutions. The tumour is nodulated on its surface, and is composed of a firm substance; it was con- nected with the brain only by the pia mater and arachnoid membrane. 44. Portion of Cerebrum, with an aneurism of the middle cerebral artery about an inch from its origin. The sac of the aneurism is filled by dark, firm, laminated coagulum ; its walls appa- rently consist, in the greater part of their extent, of the dilated coats of the artery. The arteries with which the aneurism is connected are larger and thicker than is natural. The patient was a man forty-five years old. About two years before his death, he had an apoplectic attack. After this he had several slighter attacks, and was hemiplegic, though gradually recovering, to the time of his last illness ; in which illness he had obscure signs of gastric disease, then became drowsy, and at last insensible, and died in a state of great exhaustion. The vertebral artery, after death, was found irregularly enlarged into pouches. The canal of the middle cerebral artery was pervious, the aneurismal dilatation affecting chiefly the inferior portion of its walls. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 37, No. 72. 45. Portion of Dura Mater, exhibiting a newly-formed, thin, and nearly transparent membrane, closely adherent to its internal surface, and consisting of two layers which form a large sac containing coagulated blood. The patient was a young man who had an attack of apoplexy, followed by paralysis of the right side and occasional convulsions, a short time before death. The effusion of blood compressed the right side of the brain. Case-Book Vol. i. p. 39, No. 75. 46. Portion of Dura Mater, exhibiting a mass of bone-like sub- stance, of low conical form, attached to the side of the falx cerebri. The patient, twenty-eight years old, had from boyhood been subject to severe head-aches. A fortnight before he died, he had an acute head-ache, aggravated in paroxysms, with vomiting and slow pulse, which in a few days were succeeded by delirium and fever, and then by partial paralysis and insensibility. Copious effusions of scrum and lymph were found, after death, in the cerebralmembranea and ventricles. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 21, No. 49. Presented by Herbert Evans, Esq.