94 SECOND SERIES. also, have been absorbed, and its cavity has been filled up ; so that in its place there is only an oval, flat, rough surface, with which the corresponding surface of the femur remaining be- tween the trochanters was in contact. The two surfaces were exactly adapted to each other, and covered by a substance like cartilage, so as to form a sort of joint, around which a thick capsule extended. These changes may be regarded as the results of healing after destructive ulceration such as is shown in No. 15,16, and other preceding specimens of dis- ease of the hip-joint. 22. A Shoulder-Joint, in which, in the same manner as in Nos. 8 and 20, there has been degeneration and removal of the articular cartilage, with hardening of the subjacent bone. The capsule is generally thickened, and there are numerous groups of small pendulous processes of fat, and two larger masses of hard nodulated bone, attached to its internal surface. 23 Bones of the Wrist, exhibiting the effects of inflammation in the whole of the carpal and metacarpal joints. The articular surfaces of the several bones are extensively ulcerated—some superficially, others deeply,-and there is a very abundant formation of new bone around the ulcerated parts. 24 A Knee-Joint, exhibiting a peculiar change of structure in the ' synovial membrane. The capsule has been extensively opened and raised for the purpose of exposing the cavity of the joint. The internal surface of the synovial membrane is granulated. The membrane has everywhere become very thick, and espe- cially so at the upper and front part of the joint, where its thickness is not less than two inches, and its substance is so firm as to be almost of a gristly texture. The part of the mem- brane opposed to the articular cartilage of the femur was adherent to it. The whole of the soft parts exterior to the diseased synovial membrane have been carefully removed, so that nothing else is left around the joint. 25 A flattened oval mass of a substance like cartilage, smooth ' ' on one surface, nodulated on the other, which was removed