LNJURIES AND DISEASES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 265 soft, probably fatty, matter, is deposited in them ; but beyond these portions the arterial walls appear healthy. 64. A Femoral Artery, the inner and middle coats of which were lacerated in a case of compound fracture. The laceration ex- tends transversely round two thirds of the artery just above the origin of the profunda. The lower extremity of the artery is closed by a ligature which was placed round it a short time before death, when the limb was amputated for the other in- juries sustained in the compound fracture. 65. A Posterior Tibial Artery and Vein, which were wounded a few days before death. The wound is transverse, and extends through only one side of each vessel. The clot of blood seen in the preparation was found adhering to both vessels: the regularly circumscribed cavity in it was exactly over the division of their coats. 60. A Femoral Artery, the coats of which have abundant earthy deposits in them, and show the effects of a ligature placed round it a few days before death. The ligature was applied at a little distance from the extremity of the artery, and it has divided the inner and middle coats. For two inches above the ligature the artery is filled by coagulum. 67. A Subclavian and Axillary Artery, with part of a very large Aneurismal Sac. The aneurism occupies a part of the sub- clavian and the whole length of the axillary artery to the com- mencement of the brachial; but only a small portion of the sac is preserved connecting the two parts of the artery. Bristles are passed into the apertures of communication between the artery and the sac; both of which apertures are small, and smooth. The interior of the sac is tuberculated and wrinkled, but polished as if lined by a continuation of the internal coat of the artery : the axillary nerves are connected with its exterior. The artery is neither changed in structure nor dilated on either side of the aneurism. 08. The Abdominal Portion of the Aorta, with an Aneurism formed