•23!) DISEASES OF THE HEART, &c. not valvular. The heart is enlarged, and all its parts appear increased in equal proportion. The patient, a woman thirty yours old, had good health till within a few months hcfore death, when she hcgan to have signs of disease of the heart, which gradually increased. Case-Book, Vol.i. p. 110, No. 137. 37. Heart of an Adult. The cavity of the right auricle is larger than natural, and its membranous lining is thick and opaque. The tricuspid valve is thickened. The cavity of the left ventricle is larger than natural. Its muscular substance is considerably thickened, and its lining is opaque. The aortic valves are a little thickened, and there is soft matter deposited beneath the lining of the aorta just above the valves. The coronary arteries are thickened, and there is earthy matter deposited between their coats. A rupture of the septum between the ventricles has taken place near its union with the posterior wall of the heart, by which a free communication is formed between the ventricles. On the side of the left ven- tricle the opening is about two inches in length and of a semilunar form. On the side of the right ventricle, the open- ing is much smaller and rounded. 38. Aortic Valves, with abundant deposit of earthy matter in their tissue and upon their surfaces. 39. A Heart, exhibiting the effects of inflammation of the pericar- dium, with hypertrophy of its muscular substance, and disease of its valves. The pericardium is thickened; lymph is deposited over its free surface; and, in one situation the pericardium is adherent to the heart. The walls of the left ventricle are considerably increased in thickness, and its cavity is enlarged. The mitral and aortic valves are thickened and opaque. From a hoy twelve years old, who had many attacks of rheumatism. Presented by S. G. Lawrance, Esq. 40. A Heart, exhibiting a collection of Acephalocyst Hydatids between the lining membrane and the muscular substance forming the posterior wall of the right ventricle. The hyda- tids are contained in a distinct cyst, between two and three