3U first series; upon the inside of the bone contiguous to the tibrous substance filling the medullary canal. The head and neck of the femur, and the os innominatum of the same side had undergone similar alterations in structure. From a man aged fifty-five. 153 A Great Toe with its Metatarsal Bone removed by operation. There has been necrosis of a port.on of the interior of the me- tatarsal bone. The sequestrum lies within a cavity which is lined by soft and vascular substance, and opens externally by fistulous apertures in the skin. The inflammation accompanying the processes consequent on the necrosis of the metatarsal bone has extended to the first joint of the toe, and has pro- duced the complete destruction of the articular cartilages. 154. Section of a Humerus, with a Tumour which was attached to it There is a portion of skin connected with the tumour and the surrounding muscles; and the cicatrix in the skin is the result of an operation which was performed for the removal of a tumour which occupied the situation of that here shown. The disease being reproduced, it was deemed necessary to amputate the arm at the shoulder joint. Both the arter.es and veins are filled with red wax, which having been injected into the brachial artery returned freely by the veins Part of the tumour is situated in the biceps muscle ; the other part of it extends to the bone, on the outer surface of which there is an irregular cavity, in which a small portion of the tumour was imbedded. From this cavity several small canals deeply penetrate the bone ; and the medulla in this part of the bone was softer and more vascular than elsewhere. On one of its surfaces the tumour has a very close connexion with the vessels and nerves of the limb. The tumour is soft and of a medullary character. From a female aged twenty-five. 155 Portion of the Femur from a stump. A circle of bone at the extremity of the stump has separated after necrosis A con- siderable deposit of new bone has taken place upon the surface of the femur, and forms a thick ring above the part from which the dead portion separated.