286 FOURTEENTH SERIES. 30. Portion of a Lung, witli effusion of blood in its substance, constituting Pulmonary Apoplexy. The effused blood forms firm hard masses in the lung ; at the borders of which masses, as well as in other parts, the lung appears healthy. 31. Portion of a Lung dried, with a large membranous sac on its surface, the consequence of distension of the pleura, by air effused under it from ruptured air-cells. 32. Portion of a Lung, exhibiting both the Vesicular and the Sub-pleural forms of Pulmonary Emphysema. In every part there is enlargement of the air-cells. The portions in which this change has taken place in the greatest degree, are much paler than the rest of the lung, and have not collapsed. They therefore form considerable projections at the edge and on the surface of the lung. In consequence of the rupture of some of the enlarged air-cells, air has passed beneath the pleura, and has elevated portions of it in the form of round membranous sacs. 33. Section of a Lung, the whole substance of which is made solid by the infiltration of tuberculous matter. The dark spots and lines visible in the yellow tuberculous matter are produced by the small remains of the substance of the lung. There are also numerous small irregular cavities in the lung, the result of softening of the tuberculous matter and ulceration. The boundaries of these cavities are formed by the tubercle softened and broken, and by the remains of the proper substance of the lung. 34. Portion of a Lung, exhibiting an extensive destruction of its substance consequent on the formation and progress of tubercle. The walls of the large cavity which occupies the place of more than half the lung, are composed of the pulmonary tissue, in- durated, and infiltrated with tuberculous matter; and are rendered very irregular by the projection of numerous large branches of the bloodvessels, which have not been involved in the destruction of the adjacent parts. The pleura is thickened and has soft false membrane on its surface.