THIRTEENTH SERIES. 274 earthy matter in its coats, and its cavity is filled by a firm, solid, and partially laminated coagulum. The coats of the femoral vein are thickened ; portions of it are filled by firm coagulum. 102. The Arch of an Aorta, with its great branches and the pul- monary Artery. The whole of the arch is somewhat dilated, and soft matter is deposited in its coats. A small hemispherical aneurismal pouch extends from the aorta just above the right semilunar valve, compresses the pulmonary artery, and com- municates with it by an opening, through which a portion of glass is passed. Immediately around this opening the coats of the pulmonary artery are thickened. 103. The Base of a Heart, with the large vessels, the Trachea, and the Bronchial Glands. The whole of the bronchial glands are converted into one large mass of cancer, of very firm con- sistence, and a pale pinkish white colour, irregularly mixed with the ordinary black matter of the bronchial glands. Both the main bronchial tubes pass through this mass; and they are much compressed. It surrounds and compresses the pulmonary arteries and veins, and the vena cava superior. The arteria innominata and both the venae innominatae are also pressed upon by the upper part of the diseased mass. The vena cava superior is so much compressed that its canal would scarcely admit more than the bristle which is passed through it. At the junction of the venae innominatae, the cancerous structure appears to have made its way into the cavity of the vein. Near the junction of the right subclavian and internal jugular veins, beneath the valve, there is a small growth from the interior of the vein, the structure of which appears to resemble that of the large tumour. The patient was a man thirty years old. The disease was of ahout six months standing. Its progress was attended by great dyspnoea, and by enlargement of the cutaneous veins of the face, neck, and trunk, especially of those on the right side of the neck and chest. The venous current in them all ran downwards. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 166, No. 190. 104. Portions of a Popliteal Artery and Vein. The artery was completely torn across by a wheel passing over the limb,