44 FIRST SERIES. changes have occurred here; the shaft of the ulna is sur- rounded by a very thick layer of cancellous osseous substance covered by a layer of compact bone and by the periosteum of the original bone. 198. Sections of the Radius from the same Elbow-Joint. This bone, also, has undergone the same changes as have occurred around the humerus and ulna. It is doubtful whether the new bone formed in this remarkable case were a deposit between the periosteum and the surface of the shaft, over which deposit a layer of compact tissue was developed; or whether the disease consisted in the expansion of the walls of the bones by the gradual separation of their outer from their inner layers, and in the formation of cancellous new bone between them. 199. Section of a Boy's Tibia, in which there is Necrosis of the middle half of the shaft, with detachment of the soft parts from the whole circumference of the dead portion. The sepa- ration of the dead bone from the living has commenced, and is marked on the cut surface and exterior of the bone by ulcerated grooves. It is probable from the history of the case that the necrosis commenced in inflammation of the periosteum, followed by extensive suppuration around the bone. 200. The other half of the Tibia last described. 201. The lower end of a Femur. The whole of the exterior of the bone is roughened by the growth of irregular plates and pointed processes of osseous substance. A large canal formed by ulceration passes obliquely through the bone from before backwards, just above the condyles, and communicates widely with a cavity occupying nearly the whole of the interior of the internal condyle. Around the lower part of each con- dyle there is a broad rim of new bone. The space between the condyles on the anterior aspect of the femur is deeply ulcerated. From a man thirty-five years old, who had had disease of the knee-joint for twenty-five years. Case Book, Vol. i., p. 136, No. 161. 202 The inferior angle of a Scapula with a section of a tumour growing from it. The base and interior of the tumour consist of cancellous bone, which is continuous with the cancellous