INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 277 the whole length and the greater portion of the circumference of the aorta, separating them and tearing across the intercostal and other small arteries. Some of the blood, coagulated, remains in the channel which it had formed for itself between the coats of the artery. The inner and middle coats of the aorta were soft, succulent, and very easily torn in any direction ; its internal surface also appears shreddy by the partial detach- ment of little portions of the inner coat. The aortic valves are healthy : but the heart was generally enlarged. The patient was a gentleman forty-five years old, who was subject to occa- sional attacks of rheumatism. While suffering with colic he was seized with syncope, which was shortly followed by signs of internal hemorrhage; and he died on the fourth day. The pulmonary artery was found to be compressed by the blood effused in the coats of the aorta. There was abundant soft deposit in the coats of the coronary arteries and the pericardium was full of blood. Presented by Dr. Theophilus Thompson. 112. The Abdominal Aorta of the same patient, showing the further separation of its coats by the diffused blood. The separation extends to the origin of the renal arteries. The inner coat of the artery is more thickened than in the preceding specimen. 113. Parts of a Heart and Aorta, exhibiting a transverse rent ex- tending round the whole circumference of the inner and middle coats of the aorta, about half an inch above the valves. The characters of this specimen closely resemble those of No. 110. The torn coats are soft, but in other respects they appear healthy. The patient was a man about twenty-five years old. He had delicate health ; but was not supposed to have any disease of the heart. He was suddenly seized while walking, with pain in the chest and faintness, and quickly died. Presented by Dr. Jeaffreson. 114. A Femoral Artery, with a Popliteal Aneurism. The artery was tied by the edge of the sartorius muscle eighteen months before death, and the aneurism was diminishing at the time of the patient's death. The femoral artery is completely ob- literated, from the situation at which the ligature was applied to the origin of the profunda. An inch and a half of the length of this part of the artery is replaced by a solid round cord of