30 FIRST SERIES. stance apparently contained the usual proportion of earthy matter. The fracture is imperfectly united. Presented by W. J. Wilson, Esq., Manchester. 129. Section of a Femur in which that change of structure has taken place which is usually denominated Mollities Ossium. The walls of the bone are very thin, and their substance so soft as to be readily divided by a knife. The osseous lamellae and filaments are removed from the cancellous texture ; and the medullary cavity and all the cells of the cancellous tex- ture are filled by a fatty substance, which is now, after mace- ration and the action of alcohol, of the consistence of lard. 130. Section of a Humerus from the same subject as No. 129. The walls of the bone are thin, but of their natural hardness. The adipose substance filling the medullary cavity and cancellous texture is converted by maceration into a white firm substance resembling adipocire. From a woman seventy-two years old who had been bed-ridden with paralysis of the lower extremities for nearly two years. Her hip and knee-jom s were fixeS in permanent flexion. At short intervals before her death her right femnr and right arm were fractured when she was being turned m bed. Rented by the teachers of the Medical School at t e London Hosp,aL S Case Book, vol. i. p. 45, No. 86. The case » related by Mi. T. B. Culling, the Medico-CMrurgical Transactions, vol. xx. p. 356. London, 183/. 131. Section of a Tibia exhibiting various changes of structure con- nected with suppuration in its medullary and cancellous tex- ture The cancellous tissue is in some situations consolidated by the growth of bone in it: in others it is partially filled by lymph and pus. The walls of the bone are throughout greatly thickened, and in some parts of them there are ulcerated passages leading to the medullary cavity. 132 Sections of a Femur exhibiting Necrosis of a portion of its ' walls near the trochanter major. The dead bone is separated and there is a considerable quantity of new bone formed around it In consequence of inflammation extending to the hip-joint, ulceration has taken place in the head and neck of the bone.