INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 21.5 stance of the nerve, the filaments of which are separated and extended around it. 14. Portion of a Radial Nerve, with the Tendons of the Flexor Carpi Radialis and Flexor Longus Pollicis Muscles. Long before death the artery was completely, and the nerve partially, divided. The divided filaments of the nerve have become firmly adherent to the two contiguous tendons. The sensi- bility of the fingers was unimpaired. The fore-arm of the same person is preserved among the Diseases of Arteries and Veins. 15. Section of part of a Femur, with the nerves, vessels, and muscles, thirty years after amputation. The medullary cavity is closed for some way above the end of the bone. The ex- tremities of the ischiatic and peroneal nerves are united in one bulb-like enlargement, which is attached to a dense white tissue, continued from the muscle, nerves, and vessels, to the end of the bone. 16. An Ischiatic Nerve, with a small, firm, white Tumour within its sheath. The filaments of the nerve are separated by the tumour, and loosely connected with its surface. 17. A portion of one of the Nerves of a Brachial Plexus, probably one of the roots of the median nerve, with a tumour in its sheath. It was removed, together with a portion of the inter- nal cutaneous nerve which lies upon it. The tumour is of an oval form, nearly an inch in length; it lies completely within the sheath of the nerve, the bundles of nervous filaments being pressed to one side; and it is composed of a pale, uniform, firm, elastic, glistening substance, which appears in one situa- tion somewhat softened. The patient was a man about twenty-five years old, in whom the tumour had grown slowly, and with much pain in the arm. 18. Portion of the Brain, with the Optic Nerves, of a Horse who had long lost the sight of the left eye. The left optic nerve is diminished in size from the eye to the commissure ; and behind the commissure, the nerve on the right side is scarcely more than half as large as that on the left.