102 SECOND SERIES. 57. A Knee-Joint, in which, in the course of inflammation of long standing, the Tibia and Fibula have been dislocated backwards so that the head of the tibia is fixed to the posterior surface of the condyles of the femur. The patella is fixed by osseous anchyloses to the outer condyle. Both the lateral ligaments and the ligamentum patellae are much elongated, but their tissue appears healthy. 58. A Hip-Joint, from a young woman, in which the articular car- tilages of the femur and acetabulum have been removed by ulceration, and the exposed surfaces of the bones are covered by soft granulations and flakes of lymph. The capsular liga- ment is thickened, and the head of the femur and the acetabulum appear enlarged. At the anterior and inner part of the capsule, there is a large oval opening with smooth defined margins. This opening was immediately beneath the tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles, in the situation at which the bursa naturally existing beneath that tendon sometimes communicates with the cavity of the hip-joint. A large psoas abscess had long existed in this patient: and it seemed probable ft£ th pus haling passed under the tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles, an IhLgh the aperture' of communication between the bursa and the joint, had excited acute inflammation of the latter. 59 The Hip-Joint of a child, in which the ligamentum teres, the ' cartikJ.of the acetabulum, and a part of the substance uniting the three component bones of the os innominatum, have been destroyed by ulceration. A portion of glass is passed through the floor of the acetabulum into the pelvis, where a collection of matter was formed beneath the obdurator muse e and fescia The acetabulum and the capsular ligament, a part of which preserved, are lined by lymph, which was mingled with pus ; but, with the exception of a slight superficial ulceration of its articular cartilage, the head of the femur is healthy. The child seven years old, had suffered for six months with pain and obscure intervals. Two months afterwards she died. Presented by R. W. Tamplin, Ksq.