THIRD SERIES. 136 Parts of the periosteum, which were stripped from the shaft, remain attached to the condyles. A line of new bone is formed on the anterior part of the shaft, along the torn edge of that part of the periosteum, which remained attached to the shaft. From a boy aged sixteen. The injury was produced by a rope entangled round the leg. - Amputation was performed three weeks after the injury. 92. Sections of a Clavicle, exhibiting a fracture which occurred while the patient was holding a weight above his head. Con- siderable progress has been made in the reparation of the fracture, the ends of the bone being held firmly together by an osseous ring extending around them. The periosteum is in part separated, to show that this osseous ring is deposited wholly beneath the membrane. The general texture of the clavicle does not appear diseased. From a man aged sixty. He stated that he had suffered rheumatic pains in the clavicle for some time before the fracture occurred: but he was not aware of the occurrence of the fracture; and when, about two months afterwards he came under the care of a surgeon, the ring of bone around the clavicle received so diBtinct a pulsation from the subclavian artery, that it was suspected to be an aneurism. The patient died of erysipelas of the head three months after the fracture of the clavicle. 93. Portions of the Crania of two young Dogs, upon whom the operation of the trephine was performed two months before they were killed. The piece of card indicates the size of the trephine which was employed. In each instance the opening is narrowed and altered in figure. The deposit of osseous matter has taken place wholly from the edges of the opening in the bone, and in no degree from the pericranium or dura mater. The experiment was performed by Mr. Stanley. 94. Sections of a Radius. At its carpal end there has been a transverse fracture immediately above the line of the epiphysis, and the posterior or dorsal margin of the upper fragment has been driven into the cancellous tissue of the lower one. The palmar margin of the upper fragment projects forwards, or in the direction of the palm ; and the dorsal surface of the lower fragment projects far backwards, similarly to that in No. 78, but differently from that in No. 89. The fracture is united,