SIXTH SERIES. 193 Vol. i. p. 10, No. 21. appeared, and in three days was as large as an orange, lie died on the third day after the removal of these portions of brain, in which, when first removed, both the cortical and medullary substance presented a natural appearance. The is described by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. viii. p. 14, London, 1817. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 88, No. 123. 24. Portion of Cerebrum, in which irregular, ragged ulceration extends from the surface deeply into its substance. The consequence of external injury. 25. Portions of Brain, exhibiting deep lacerations of its substance, with effusions of blood in the anterior, and in one of the middle, lobes of the cerebrum, and in both hemispheres of the cerebellum. From a woman who fell down-stairs upon her occiput. She was immediately insensible; and died on the fifth day, with signs of acute inflammation of the brain. A fracture was found extending from the transverse ridge of the occipital bone through several portions of the petrous part of the temporal bone. Case- Book, Vol. i. p. 9, No. 20. 26. Choroid Plexuses, in which there are small cysts containing a soft substance. 27. Choroid Plexuses, in which there are small thin-walled cysts containing a soft tuberculous matter. Many of the lymphatic glands of the patient were enlarged, and contained a substance similar to that which fills these cysts. 28. Cerebral Arteries, in the coats of which earthy matter is deposited. 29. Portion of Cerebrum, in the left hemisphere of which there is a cyst, an inch and a half in diameter, which contained pus. The cyst is situated immediately over the Fissura Sylvii; its walls are distinct, thin, smooth on both surfaces, and easily separable from the surrounding substance of the brain. The patient had purulent discharge from the left ear for five weeks before his death He died suddenly. The petrous portion of the temporal bone, over which this encysted abscess was situated, was extensively diseased. The portion of brain between the abscess and the bone was dark and sloughy. Casc-Book,