FIRST SERIES. Part of a Tibia affected by Necrosis. A large portion of the middle of the shaft of the tibia, including parts of its outer surface, and a much greater extent of its inner layers and cancellous tissue, has perished. A nearly complete wall of new bone, from half an inch to an inch thick, has been formed around the sequestrum, and has soft vascular matter lining its inner surface; its external surface is irregular, and it is of very dense spongy texture. The new wall is incomplete only at those situations which are opposite to the parts at which the outer layers of the walls of the tibia have perished. Sections of a Tibia, in which a portion of the cancellous tissue of the head died and was separated: it lay loose within a large cavity in the head of the bone, which is lined by soft vascular tissue, and the opposite walls of which are shown in the two sections. The periosteum, thickened and vascular, has been partially reflected, to show the rough external surface formed by the accumulation of new bone on the outer surface of the head of the tibia. Parts of a Femur. A portion of the whole thickness of the shaft of the femur, five inches long, died and was separated. The dead bone is contained in a cavity, which is formed in part by new bone, and in part by the surrounding soft tissues. The forma- tion of new bone has taken place chiefly at the remaining upper portion of the shaft, but has not extended the whole length of the femur; a considerable space remains at the lower part of the thigh, where this new bone is connected with the con- dyles only by soft matter. The internal surface of the new bone exhibited great vascularity ; the external surface is rough and irregular, and covered, not by well-formed periosteum, but by tough condensed cellular tissue, a portion of which has been turned back at the upper part. The surface of the lower end of the femur, from which the dead bone separated, is covered with granulations. The cartilage has been almost completely removed from the lower end of the femur, but the bone thus exposed is not ulcerated. The patient was a lad 16 years old, in whom the disease had existed a year and . half when the thiph was amputated through the trochanter major. A few days