FIFTEENTH SERIES. '2>m The intervening portions of the mucous membrane appear healthy. 21. Portion of a Stomach, with several small oval masses of tubercu- lous matter deposited beneath its peritoneal coat. A section has been made through one of them. From a lad who died with tubercles in his lungs and in many other organs. 22. Portion of a Stomach and Duodenum. There is an irregular aperture, more than an inch in width, extending through all the coats of the stomach near the pylorus. In several other parts the peritoneal coat is irregularly torn. These injuries were produced by the crushing of the abdomen, the stomach at the time being full of food. 23. The Stomach of a young woman who died thirty hours after taking nearly an ounce of sulphuric acid. It is contracted, and, in its interior, deeply corrugated. The mucous membrane is thickened and indurated, and of a deep black and crimson colour from congestion and extravasation of blood. These effects of the acid are most distinct on the summits of the ridges formed by the corrugated mucous membrane. 24. Portion of a Stomach, in the mucous membrane of which there are numerous circular ulcers. They vary from half a line to two lines in diameter, and penetrate the whole thickness of the mucous membrane, which in the intervening spaces appears healthy. Many of them in the recent state contained points of effused blood. From a woman forty-five years old, from whom the fibrous tumours of the breast in Series XXXV. were taken. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 151, No. 175. 25. The Pyloric portion of a Stomach, with the commencement of the Duodenum. About two inches from the pylorus, in the lesser arch of the stomach, is an ulcer which has penetrated through all the coats. In the peritoneal coat the aperture is oval, abrupt, and sharp-edged ; that in the mucous membrane has similar characters, but is much larger; the base of the ulcer tends smoothly and gradually from the aperture in the mucous, to that in the peritoneal, coat. Around dris ulcer are several of