10 FIRST SERIES. the pus, and large portions of them have been removed by ulceration. The cavity of the abscess opened widely into the spinal canal. The patient was between fifty and sixty years old, and died of organic disease in the stomach. There was no symptom which led to a suspicion of disease of the sacrum. 29. Section of a Tibia, with the soft parts covering it, exhibiting the effects of Malignant Ulceration. The section was made longi- tudinally through the middle of the tibia; the other half of the tibia and the fibula are in the next preparation. By viewing the two preparations together, it will be seen that the ulcerative process has extended completely through the body of the tibia, in a great part of its length, and has reached the fibula, as is evinced by the peculiar excavated appearance of its surface. No attempt has been made to restore the lost bone; there is merely a slight deposit of bony matter upon the surface of the fibula, opposite to that which is in progress of ulceration. The interosseous ligament is in part converted into bone. The inte- guments around the hollow which has been left by the ulcera- tion are much changed in structure ; they are swollen, and the margins of the hollow are formed by very vascular, coarse, and hard, warty granulations. 30. Macerated portions of the Tibia and Fibula, referred to in the preceding description. They were taken from a man fifty-three years old. Thirty years before the ihey weie t timber fell on his leg : he recovered tie same paiw ich was followed by ulceration of the integuments, and discharge f 8mTll Pieces of bone. The ulceration extended in both width and depth ,1 the limb was removed. The principal arteries of the Huib were ossified. Case Book, vol. i. p. 2, No. G. 31 The Lower Extremity of a Femur, exhibiting the effects of ' Ulceration, with irregular deposits of bone around and over the ulcerated surface. These changes were probably consequent on abscess within the bone. The walls of the shaft are thickened and spongy, and the remaining cancellous tassue is consolidated, so that their respective textures can hardly be distinguished.