INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 137 and a buttress of new bone has formed on the dorsal and radial sides of the displaced portions. 95. Portions of a Radius and Ulna. Both bones have been frac- tured, just above their carpal ends, in several directions both vertically and transversely, as indicated by the bristles placed in the soft substance like cartilage, by which the lines of the fracture are filled. 96. Section of the Tibia of a Dog, which was fractured a fortnight before death. New osseous substance is thinly deposited in a ring beneath the periosteum, around, and for some way above and below, the line of fracture ; but in the line of the fracture, as well as in that part of the new bone which immediately sur- rounds the fine, the osseous union is not completed ; a line of cartilage only is here seen on the surface of the section, just as in Nos. 69, 70, 71. The experiment -was performed by Mr. Stanley. 97. Portion of a Clavicle, with the upper piece of the Sternum and the First Rib, from an adult. The sternal end of the clavicle is dislocated downwards and forwards. The capsule belonging to its articulation with the sternum is torn; but the costo- clavicular ligament is entire. The first rib is separated from its cartilage. 98. Section of a Femur, in which there has been a fracture through the middle of its shaft. The section was made after softening the bone in dilute hydrochloric acid. The fracture is firmly united, with the upper portion of the bone projecting in front and on the inner side of the lower. The uniting medium consists of bone placed between the adjacent surfaces of the displaced portions of the femur; and in this new bone there are formed cancellous tissue of healthy aspect, and an outer thick wall of compact tissue. This wall of the uniting medium of new bone is connected with the surfaces of the two portions of the femur, and with the layers of compact new bone by which their me- dullary tubes, exposed by the fracture and not placed in appo- sition, are covered in. The corresponding parts of the walls