284 TWELFTH SKKIKS. while their walls are thinner than is natural. The walls of the right ventricle are especially diminished in thickness. The valves on both sides of the heart are healthy. The patient was a man thirty-four years old. The ease is related by Mr. James, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. viii. p. 449, London, 1817. Case- Book, Vol. i. p. 13, No. 28. 11. Part of a Heart, exhibiting the Aortic Valves thickened, opaque, and made rigid by the abundant deposit of earthy matter in them. The communication between the ventricle and the aorta is nearly closed by the diseased valves ; a mere fissure is left between them, and the narrow nearly linear form of this fissure, as well as the general appearance and form of the valves, indicates that there are but two, instead of three, valves. The mitral valve is healthy. The left ventricle is dilated, but the walls are not thickened. 12. A Heart, exhibiting great enlargement of the cavity of the left ventricle, with thickening of its walls. There is abundant formation of fat on the whole exterior of the heart; on the right ventricle it forms a layer half an inch in thickness. The coronary arteries are not ossified. The aortic and mitral valves are large and thin, but appear of healthy texture. The patient, a man twenty-five years old, attributed the origin of his disease to a fit of passion twelve months before his death. He shortly after observed un- naturally strong pulsations in all his large arteries and at his heart. These con- tinued till his death, all the arteries appearing to be dilated. He had also great dyspnoba aggravated in paroxysms, during which he was in the habit of taking large quantities of digitalis. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 12, No. 27. 13. A Left Ventricle, in which there are several round and oval portions of fibrine firmly adhering to its internal surface, among the fleshy columns near the apex. The two largest portions present cavities which contained a fluid resembling pus. From a man thirty-five years old, who died with phthisis. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 13, No. 29. 14. Section of a left Ventricle. Its membranous lining is partly ulcerated, and partly thickened with deposits of earthy matter; pus is extensively diffused through the muscular structure at the apex of the ventricle.