DISEASES OF BONE. 35 which it originated ; removed by operation. The portion of the jaw comprises its whole side, from the angle to within a short distance of the symphysis. The morbid growth consists of a grey, dense, fibrous substance, originating from the alveolar border and from the outer surface of the jaw. Part of the alveolar border of the jaw has been absorbed; and in this situation the morbid growth appears to extend into the bone. The contiguous substance of the jaw is of an ivory-like hardness, and its cancellous texture is consolidated. From a female aged thirty. 150. Sections of a Tumour which formed in the side of the neck immediately below the seat of the operation by which the parts last described were removed. The tumour consists throughout of a firm fibrous substance. The irregularity of surface and looser texture which it presents in one situation result from the ulceration and sloughing of its substance, which commenced a short time before death. With the smaller section of the tumour is connected a part of the lower jaw : its texture is sound, but the morbid growth is closely attached to its surface. Other portions of the same are shown in No. 251. 151. Sections of a Tumour, which occupied the situation of the superior Maxillary Bone and was removed by operation. The whole of the natural structure of the superior maxillary bone has disappeared. The mucous membrane which covered the palatine surface of the bone extends over a part of the tumour. The morbid growth consists of a moderately firm fatty-looking substance, with minute cells and spicula of bone dispersed through it. From a man aged forty-six. The disease returned after the operation, and the patient died in consequence of hemorrhage from ulceration of the internal carotid artery which became involved in an extension of the disease. 152. Sections of the upper part of a Femur. The medullary canal of the bone is filled by firm fibrous substance. Around this substance the walls of the bone are converted into a loose flocculent texture. In the upper part of the specimen this change has extended completely through the walls of the bone: in the lower part it appears to be commencing d 2