FIRST SERIES: SUB-SERIES A. and tlu ir bodies nearly in contact with the lower dorsal vertebra at the beginning of the second, or left, curvature of the spine. The general position of the chest is thus very oblique ; what should be its vertical ax. ,s directed from above downwards, from before backwards, and from right to left. _ . The pelvis is light and all its bones are thin. It is obliquely placed; the crest of the left ilium being higher than that of the right, and its ala further back and more concave. The left side of the sacrum being also narrower than the right, and the symphysis pubis in the middle line, the left side of the pelvis and of its upper aperture are less capacious than the right. The rami of the isch.a curve outwards ; and the lower aperture of the pdv* though misshapen, does not appear unnaturally small. The scapula* and clavicles are slender and well-formed. The humeri are short and proportionally thick ; the upper halves of their shafts present each a slight double curvature. The radii and ulnae are also short and slightly curved ; in comparison with the humeri they are slender. The bones of the wrists and hands are well formed. The femora are both curved and very short: they are of equal length ; but the left is slender, while the right is of full Scknesf In adaptation to the oblique pos^ofthe .elvis (the right acetabulum being nearly an inch lower th n tl le t and half an inch more forward), the right "much more strongly curved than the left; and the right is curved outwards, while the left is curved forwards By this adaptation the obliquities in the upper part of the r/eleton are" nearly compensated; so that the knee,om are at the same level; neither of them js advanced befo the other; and, except that the articular surface of the Zu is more oblique than that of the left, they are symme- trical. The tibiae and fibulae are strongly but simdarly " ved forwards and inwards, so that the shafts of the tibiaa nearly touch. The lateral axes of the ankle-joints are d re Jed from without inwards, and from above downwards; and he internal malleoli are far within the tarsi and on a evel with the lower margins of the astragal,. The feet