214 EIGHTH SERTES. extremity, which was united by dense cellular tissue to the inte- gument of the stump and to the end of the bone. The branch of the anterior crural nerve presents, in relation to its size, a larger bulb at its extremity, which was united in the same manner to the end of the bone and to the integument. Between the two nerves a triangular and flat spiculum of bone has arisen from the outer surface of the femur. 10. Part of a Humerus, with the several Nerves of the Arm, from a Stump. The nerves present bulbous enlargements at their extremities, which are firmly united together, and to the end of the bone, by dense cellular tissue. 11. The First Bone of a Middle Finger, from a Stump. The digital nerves present bulbous enlargements at their extremities, which are firmly united to the bone. 12. Portion of an Axillary Artery, with the Axillary Plexus of Nerves, and a Tumour connected with them. A section has been made of the tumour, to show its interior, consisting of a soft fleshy substance, some of which appears deposited in cells. A nerve, presumed to be the median, is connected with the tumour at its upper and lower extremities. At its upper end, the filaments of this nerve are expanded over the tumour, in such a manner as to indicate that it commenced within the nerve neivc The patient was a middle-aged man. Six years before his death, a ligature was placed upon the subclavian artery, on account of a pulsatmg tumourhen presenting below the clavicle, and supposed to be an aneunsm of the axd ary Ltery. The preparation contains the portion of the artery whrch was obht rated below the seat of the ligature. The artery has been divded, to show the firm coagulum of fibrin, which filled it, and was closely adherent to its inner surface, to the extent of about an inch and a half beyond the ligature. The thorax of the same patient, with the arteries injected, 18 preserved among tbe Diseases of Arteries and Veins. ' The case is recorded by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Chirurguxd Transacts Vol. xxviii. p. 314, London, 1845. 13 A Median Nerve, in which there is a small oval Tumour, com posed apparently of medullary substance of a light brow colour. The tumour was completely imbedded in the sub