THIRD SERIES. fracture extends transversely through the humerus, immediately helow its head and below the tuberosities ; and it communi- cates with the cavity of the shoulder-joint. A small detached piece of the bone is connected with the synovial membrane. The synovial membrane is thickened, and its internal surface is rough. A bristle is passed beneath the tendon of the biceps. The axillary artery is obliterated, to the extent of half an inch, in the situation in which the end of the lower portion of the humerus pressed against it. Immediately above the oblite- rated part, the infra-scapular artery arises, of its usual size, and pervious. Close to the infra-scapular is the posterior circumflex artery, obliterated in the first half inch from its origin, and then pervious by means of the collateral circulation. About two inches above the origin of the infra-scapular, a large branch arises from the axillary artery; this branch, ex- tending down the inside of the arm, was continued into one of the arteries of the fore-arm, and formed a principal channel for transmitting blood from the upper to the lower part of the limb. From a man aged seventy-five. The injury occurred ten years before death. 75. Ossa Nasi, exhibiting the union of a transverse fracture a short distance above their lower borders. 76. Section of the Femur of an old man, in which a fracture through the base of its neck, and through the upper part of the great trochanter, occurred many years before death. The neck was driven into the upper part of the shaft between the tro- chanters ; and in this situation a layer of compact bone has been formed on the whole of the broken surface of the can- cellous tissue of the shaft and trochanters, in such a manner as to form a smooth excavation, in which the neck of the femur rests. To this excavated surface the neck of the femur, itself also covered by compact bone, was connected by ligamentous tissue. The fracture through the trochanter is completely united by bone. A similar specimen, except in that the fractured base of the