DISEASES OF THE HEART; &e. 237 around it, the walls of the ventricle are of their natural thick- ness. The muscular substance appears soft, and of a dull brown colour. Earthy matter is deposited in the coats of the aorta. 28. A Left Ventricle and Auricle. In the boundary between the auricle and ventricle the wall of the heart is dilated into a pouch, like an aneurism, which extends round the outer part of the base of the left ventricle, from the anterior to the pos- terior margins of the septum. The mouth of this pouch is just below, and partly covered by, the mitral valve: its cavity is half filled by concentric layers of fibrine. The cavity of the left ventricle is much enlarged ; its walls are thickened; and its lining membrane, near the aneurismal sac, is thick, rough, and has yellow deposits in it. The exterior of the heart is covered by adhesions, which fixed it closely to the inner sur- face of the pericardium. The mitral valve and its tendinous chords are thickened and opaque, especially in those parts which are stretched over the mouth of the aneurismal sac. The patient was a man between forty and fifty years old. He had long suffered -with signs of diseased heart. Case-Book, Vol.i. p. 175, No. 199. 29. A Heart, with numerous small soft tumours beneath the layer of the pericardium covering the heart, and beneath the mem- brane lining its cavities. The case is described as one of " Tuberculated Sarcoma," by Mr. Abernethy, in his Surgical Observations; On Tumours, Vol. ii. p. 53. London, 1810. 30. Section of a Left Ventricle, with a shallow Aneurismal Pouch at its side. The inner surface of the pouch is smooth, and, apparently, formed by the lining of the ventricle partially covered by layers of fibrine. The pericardium is adherent to its outer surface. •31. Section of a Left Ventricle, exhibiting a large nodulated and granular mass of substance, like bone, in the tissue around the attachment of the mitral valve. 32, Portion of a Heart encircled at its base by a broad irregular plate of bone-like substance, which occupied the place of the