48 FIRST SERIES. acetabulum, and, by other openings, with a cavity in the interior of the sacrum, and with the spinal canal. There are several apertures in the posterior part of the sacrum. All these cavities were filled with hydatids, which had also protruded through the apertures in the walls of the bones, and were contained in cysts formed by the thickened periosteum and other tissues. 216 Part of the Acephalocyst Hydatids which were contained in , the Bones just described. Some of them are entire, but the maiority have been ruptured. The patient was an elderly woman. There were other hydatids in a large cys connected with the ovary. The disease was of long standing, and the paUent died with suppuration of some of the hydatid cysts. 217 Section of an Os Calcis, in which pus is diffused in many parts of the cancellous tissue. The whole tissue of the bone was soft, and could be easily cut with a knife. From a man seventy years old, all the bones of whose tarsus and metatarsus were similarly diseased. 218. Section of a portion of a Tibia after compound fracture. The whole thickness of the wall at the end of the bone, and a part of its thickness for three inches up the anterior and inner aspect of the shaft, have perished, and are separated from the living tissue by a deep groove. The medullary tissue has retained its vitality, and is increased in vascularity. A ayer of new bone, which in some parts is nearly half an inch thick, has formed on the surface of the shaft around the dead por- tion, and is invested by the original periosteum. The new bone is soft, spongy, and vascular. A portion of the perios- teum has been reflected from the upper part of the shaft, to exhibit the formation of new bone beneath it. 219 The other section of the Tibia and part of the Fibula from ' the same limb, after maceration. An inch of the extremity of the fibula has perished. The surface of the adjacent Dart of the shaft is covered by new bone, which is especally abundant at the lower part, and has coalesced with the new bone on the corresponding part of the t.b.a. A part of