FIRST SERIES. 100. A Skull from a Lunatic. The large portion of the parietal and occipital bones comprising about a third of the whole vault of the skull, as well as the small pieces which lie around it, were exfoliated in consequence of a burn. The size of the aperture left in the upper and back part of the skull was, during the twelve years in which the man survived the injury, in a very slight degree diminished by the growth of bone from its margins. The exposed part of the dura mater was covered by a dense tissue like that of an ordinary cicatrix. The patient was twenty-three years old when, after many attempts to commit ' suicide, he laid his head on a fire and remained till the whole of the scalp was completely charred and a portion of the hone was calcined. The process of exfoliation of the bone occupied eighteen months : but a complete cicatrix formed. When he recovered, the patient, though still insane, did not again attempt to destroy himself. Case Book, vol. i. p. 148, No. 171. 101. The second Phalanx of a Thumb, separated after necrosis which was connected with a Whitlow (Paronychia). 102. A Lower Jaw, nearly the whole body of which suffered Ne- crosis after the administration of a few grains of calomel in a case of fever. The dead bone is in part separated, and a small quantity of new bone is deposited around it. 103. Portion of a Tibia, with a circumscribed smooth-walled cavity in the cancellous texture of its head, which cavity was filled by pus, and is lined by a soft vascular membrane. It nearly resembles the cavity shown in No. 70, and opens by two apertures through the walls of the tibia; but the rest of the bone appears healthy. 104. Portion of a Tarsus, exhibiting Necrosis of the Os Calcis. The whole of the internal cancellous texture of the bone has perished, and was in process of separation from the thin osseous layer constituting its walls. The necrosis appears to have succeeded to a diffuse suppuration through the os calcis. 105. An Osseous Tumour, which was removed from the humerus of a boy fourteen years old. It was situated at the insertion of the pectoralis major. Its outer surface is covered by periosteum. Internally it consists in part of a white and dense