INJURIES OF BONES A>fl) JOINTS. 143 leaden bullet is fixed in the tibia near its head; a fracture in this situation is nearly united, and without displacement, by bone deposited around it. Presented by Thomas Wormald, Esq. 116. Portion of the Parietal Bone of a Child, on which a sharp piece of a chimney-pot fell from a house-roof. It made a circular aperture in the skull, half an inch in diameter, and forced the bone which was included within this circle into the brain and dura mater. Portions of the bone thus driven in remain attached to the margins of the aperture. The child remained for three weeks with scarcely any of the usual symptoms of injury of the brain. Inflammation of the brain then ensued, and soon ended fatally. 117. The Femur of a Sheep, fractured long before death through the upper part of its shaft. The fractured surfaces, though adapted to one another, have not united; but new bone is abundantly formed upon and around them. 118. A Shoulder-Joint, in which a dislocation of the Humerus occurred long before death and was not reduced. The head of the humerus rested on the anterior surface of the scapula, and on the anterior margin of the glenoid cavity, just below the coracoid process. Tough ligamentous tissue has been formed on the scapula, beneath the head of the humerus, and a new fibrous capsule surrounded it. The surface of the glenoid cavity is covered by similar fibrous tissue, and that part of the head of the humerus which was in contact with its anterior margin has been absorbed. The tendons of the biceps, supra- spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and sub-scapularis muscles are all shown retaining their proper attachments. 119. Sections of the upper part of a Femur, in which a vertical fracture occurred through the middle of the neck, within the capsule. The portion of the neck, which was connected with the shaft, is nearly absorbed; the portion connected with the head remains, and its lower margin rests, as on a ledge, on the trochanter minor and the cancellous tissue within it. The