171 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 8. Portion of a Spine, in which there is complete dislocation of the bodies and articular processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, without any fracture. 9. Portion of a Spine, in which there is dislocation of the bodies and articular processes of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebras, with fracture of the upper margin of the body, and of the arch, of the fifth. The body of the fourth vertebra projects in front of the fifth, and the membranes of the spinal chord appear tense and compressed beneath it. It is necessary to observe, that the fissures upon the arches of the vertebrae, on each side of the spinous processes, were made by the saw in opening the spinal canal. 10. Portion of a Spine, in which there is dislocation of the bodies and articular processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebras, with fracture of the articular processes of the fifth. The articu- lar processes of the fifth are raised up from those of the sixth, but have not passed to the front of them. The posterior part of the intervertebral ligament appears to have been deeply torn. 11. Portion of a Spine, in which there is dislocation of the bodies and articular processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, with fracture of the body of the sixth. The right inferior arti- cular process of the fifth has passed to the front of the right superior process of the sixth; the corresponding processes on the left side more nearly retain their places, so that the upper part of the spine is twisted round towards the left side. 12. Sections of a Spine, in which there is a complete dislocation of the bodies and articular processes of the fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae, without any fracture. The fourth vertebra is carried forwards, so that the posterior margin of its body rests on the anterior margin of the body of the fifth, and the apex of its spinous process rests on the base of the spinous process of the fifth. The patient, a robust man, twenty-two years old, fell with a heavy weight on his head and the upper part of his neck. He was immediately deprived of all sensibility in the trunk and limbs, and of all power over the voluntary muscles of