266 THIRTEENTH SERIES. by dilatation of the greater part of its circumference, and extending from the superior mesenteric to the iliac arteries. The walls of the sac and of the adjacent portions of the artery are thick and tuberculated ; there is a small round aperture, through which the front of the aneurism burst into the duodenum by a regular smooth-edged opening. The superior and inferior mesenteric arteries are obliterated at their origins. The aneurism had probably existed more than two years. The rupture occurred four days before death. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 30, No. 67. Presented by John Thorn, Esq. 69. The Arch of an Aorta, with an Aneurism of its upper part and right side involving the arteria innominata. Very firm and thick laminated coagulum lines the sac, and has closed the origin of the right subclavian artery. A portion of the coagulum was found detached, and almost loose in the cavity of the aorta, as it now appears in the preparation. The trachea is slightly compressed by the sac. The patient, an elderly man, was supposed to have chronic asthma, the signs of which increased to such a degree that the trachea was opened to prevent the suffocation which seemed impending. A largo thyroid vein was opened in the operation, and the patient died. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 39, No. 76. 70. The Arch of an Aorta, with an Aneurism at its upper part. Part of the sac is formed by the dilated artery, the coats of which terminate with an abrupt margin near the middle of the sac. The remaining part of the sac is formed by condensed cellular tissue, and the sternum. Round, deeply impressed, pits produced by absorption are visible upon the internal surface of the sternum : and one of these penetrates the bone to its external surface, and leads to an ulcerated aperture in the corresponding portions of the integuments. 71. Portion of a Vena Cava Inferior, in which there is a transverse lacerated aperture, about two inches above the iliac veins. From the same person as the ruptured bladder, Series XXIX. No. 21, and the ruptured intestine, Series XVI. No. 51. 72. An Aorta, exhibiting extensive and large circular ulcerations of its inner coat, with deposits of soft and earthy substance in its thickened tissue, and between it and the middle coat.