22 FIRST SERIES. and smoothly, but so that they form an acute angle. The pos- terior surface of the head of the Femur is absorbed where, in the altered position of the lower extremity, it rested on the margin of the acetabulum. The other half of this bone, and the opposite femur, which was similarly frac- tured and united, are preserved in Sub-series C, No. 116. The patient, who was about fifty-six vears old, had been bedridden for some years before the fractures occurred; they were both produced while he was being turned in bed. Presented by William James Jones, Esq. 93. Portions of a Femur, Tibia, and Fibula, dried, with some of the surrounding parts. A peculiar change of structure, apparently similar to that shown in No. 78, has taken place in the femur. Its surface is extensively ulcerated from the condyles upwards, and it has been broken or ulcerated through the shaft just above the condyles. Irregular deposits of osseous matter have taken place in the soft parts around the diseased bone, and on the shaft at the borders of the ulceration. 94 Sections of the Femur of a young subject, in which there has been an Abscess in the cancellous texture just above the con- dyles. There are irregular ulcerated apertures m the walls ot the bone through which the matter passed from the cancellous texture into the surrounding soft parts. For some distance beyond the seat of the abscess, deposits of new bone have taken place upon the outer surface of the femur, and the layers of the Lll are separated. The texture of the whole of the bone » light, dry, fragile, and white. 95 Section of a Tumour occupying the situation of the head and upper third of the shaft of the Tibia. The external surface of the tumour is covered in by the aponeurosis which invested the knee-joint, and by remains of the walls of the bone extended and thinned around it. At the upper part of the tumour are the semilunar cartilages and the articular surface of he tibia in a sound state but enlarged. Internally the tumour consists of a mixture of soft medullary substance and bone disposed in the form of large cells or cysts of various size and ^Pe some of which were filled by a clear yellow fluid others by coagulated blood. The walls of the cells consist of mem-