INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE SPTNE. 17:; margins are nearly in contact and are partially united by bone; and there is considerable angular curvature of the spine. The remains of the body of the vertebra which is principally diseased, and the bodies of the vertebrae above and below it, are denser and harder than is natural, and are of a yellow colour. The spinal chord is curved, in correspondence with the curvature of the spine, but is not compressed. The patient was a lad seventeen years old. After signs of the disease had existed for two years he had paraplegia. Issues were made near the diseased part of the spine, and he recovered sufficiently to pursue his work as a farmer's boy. But, by a fall on his back, acute inflammation of the spinal chord, which appeared to extend to the brain, was excited ; and thus he died. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 7, No. 15. 16. Section of a Spine, in which the bodies of two of the lower dorsal vertebrae are nearly destroyed by ulceration. Their remains are soft and crumbling, and the intervertebral substance is removed. There is a deposit of caseous matter around the diseased bone, elevating the periosteum of the bodies of the vertebras and the pleura costalis to a considerable extent above and below the chief seat of the disease. 17. Portion of the Spine of a Child, exhibiting the process of cure after such disease as is shown in the three preceding specimens. The bodies of four of the lower dorsal vertebrae are destroyed ; and the anterior parts of the bodies of the vertebrae which were immediately above and below the situation of the disease, are approximated and firmly united by bone. Together with the angular curvature thus produced, there is some lateral dis- placement of the bodies of the vertebrae ; but, by the separation of the arches of the diseased vertebrae, the spinal canal, though changed in form, appears to have retained its natural size. 18. Section of a Spine, exhibiting apparent deficiency of medulla in the cancellous texture of the bodies of three lumbar verte- brae, with ulceration commencing in their internal and posterior parts. The bones are of their natural hardness. All the other vertebrae of this spine were similarly altered. 1!'. Portion of a Spine, in which the bodies of the second and third