->i2 TWELFTH SERIES. tendinous cliords are greatly thickened, opaque, shortened, and nearly rigid. The aortic valves are thickened, and united by their adjacent edges, so that only a very small circular aperture was left between them for the passage of the blood. The walls of the left ventricle are of their natural thickness, but the fleshy columns connected with the mitral valve are hyper- trophied. 50. Section of a Heart, with the corresponding portion of the Pericardium. The pericardial sac was completely filled by lymph, of which this section shows a layer nearly an inch in thickness at one part. 51. Part of a Heart, exhibiting a great dilatation of the left au- ricle, with thickening of its membranous lining, and with thickening, induration, and contraction of the mitral valve and tendinous chords. Portions of fibrine, arranged in concentric layers, adhere to the thickened membranous lining of a part of the auricle which is more dilated than the rest. The patient was a woman forty-one years old, who had heen for some years subject to rheumatism, and had signs of diseased heart for twenty months before her death. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 158, No. 184. 52. A Heart from a child aged four years. The aortic valves are opaque and thickened, and their free margins are curled back- ward towards the artery. Two of the valves are closely united by their adjacent margins. 53. A Heart, exhibiting a pouch formed by dilatation of a circular portion of the anterior wall of the left ventricle near its base. The pouch was filled by laminated coagulum ; its mouth is round, narrow, and smooth ; and its parietes, apparently, con- sist of the serous covering and inner membrane of the heart, thickened, united, and having small deposits of a soft yellowish substance in and around them. The muscular tissue of this part has entirely disappeared. The coagulum which was within the pouch is at the bottom of the bottle. The patient was a girl nineteen years old. The disease of the heart probably commenced about eighteen months before death ; but its progress was marked by