DISEASES OF BONE. 48 abundantly deposited in various parts of the body, the lungs, liver, ovaries, mammary gland, dura mater, and others. 193. A Clavicle, in which a piece of the cancellous texture near its sternal end has suffered necrosis. The dead bone lies loose within a cavity, in which it is partially exposed by apertures formed in the surrounding walls of the bone. 194. A Great Toe with its Metatarsal Bone removed by operation. There is a broad flat growth of cancellous bone from the under part of the distal extremity of the metatarsal bone. The patient was a man about thirty years old. In consequence of a lace- ration of the soft parts in the sole, there remained a cicatrix on the under and inner edge of the foot. The irritation in the surrounding parts, excited by the pressure on this cicatrix in progression, was the cause of the growth of bone. 195. Sections of a Tibia, from a Boy eighteen years of age, exhibit- ing the effects of acute inflammation in its medullary tissue and periosteum. Lymph and pus are abundantly deposited in the cancellous tissue throughout its whole extent. Irregular ulcerations extend through the cancellous structure of the bone at each of its extremities, and have passed through the articular cartilages into the knee and ankle-joints; suppura- tion has also taken place between the epiphyses and the shaft. The periosteum, separated from the shaft of the bone in nearly its whole length, is very vascular, thick, pulpy, and velvet- like on its inner surface. Other bones from the knee and ankle-joints of the same patient are in the next Series, No. 46. 196. Sections of the Humerus, from a young person in whom there had been long standing disease in and around the elbow-joint. A very thick layer of new osseous substance has formed around the shaft to the borders of its articular surface. This osseous substance presents a vascular cancellous texture, and is sur- rounded by a layer of compact substance which is covered by the periosteum of the original bone. 197. Sections of the Ulna from the same Elbow-Joint. The same