141 JNJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. 109. Portion of a Skull, in which a trephine hole, made thirty-four years hefore death, has been nearly filled up by new bone. The greater part of the new bone has been produced from the border of the aperture in the inner table. The aperture still remaining is of an irregularly oval form, about five lines long, and a line and a half wide. Its margins are sharp, and its borders shelve obliquely inwards and downwards from the sur- rounding healthy bone. It was filled up by a tough fibrous membrane. The patient, a Sergeant of Marines, was struck on the head with a tomahawk, at the taking of the Danish fleet in 1807, and was trephined in Haslar Hospital shortly afterwards by Sir Stephen Hauimick. Presented, with the history derived from the patient, by George Mantell, Esq. 110. Sections of the upper part of a Femur fractured almost vertically through the neck, at the base of the head and wholly within the capsule. The neck and the upper part of the shaft have been drawn a little upwards, and the lower part of the fractured surface and margin of the neck, has been driven tight into the cancellous tissue of the head. In this position, with- out any lateral displacement, and without any absorption of the neck of the femur, the fractured surfaces have been united by a thin layer of tough fibrous tissue, which permitted them to be slightly moved on one another. The fibrous covering of the neck appears to have been torn across and reunited in front, but to have remained entire behind. All the textures adjacent to the fracture are healthy, but the walls of the bone are thin, and its cancellous tissue atrophied and full of soft fat. The patient was a very old woman. The fracture occurred about three months before death. 111. A Knee-Joint, of which the patella was dislocated outwards, long before death, and was not reduced. The patella rests on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur, on which, in adaptation to it, a small articular surface has been formed by a layer of very dense and polished ligamentous tissue. The tendon of the quadriceps femoris lies on the outer side of the femur, and the ligamentum patellae is directed slightly inwards as well as downwards towards the tibia, which has been rotated outwards following the displacement of the patella. All the