THIRD SliRlES. 122 The portions are united by a thick ligamentous substance, and are all enlarged ; the upper fragment alone is as large, and has the same form, as an ordinary adult patella. 30. Section of a Patella in which there has been a transverse frac- ture. The fractured surfaces are united by a thick portion of ligament about an inch in length, which is smoothly lined, as if by a continuation of the synovial membrane. As in the pre- ceding specimens, the fragments are enlarged, and their texture is unaltered. 31. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the head of the Femur on the dorsum of the ilium, which occurred a considerable time before death. On one side of the preparation is a part of the original capsule; this has been extensively divided in front, to show the acetabulum, which is contracted into a narrow triangular cavity nearly filled by fibrous tissue. On the other side of the preparation, the head of the bone is shown, deformed, reduced in size, and surrounded by a thick membrane of tough fibrous tissue, which is smooth on its internal surface. This membrane, forming the capsule of the new joint, is in part newly formed, and in part consists of the remains of the former capsule: it is extensively divided behind, to give a distinct view of the head of the bone. The cavity of the new capsule communicates with that of the old capsule below the neck of the femur, and their smooth internal linings are continuous. 32. Sections of the upper part of a Femur, in which a fracture ex- tended obliquely through the base of its neck, in a line marked by bristles. The synovial and periosteal coverings of the neck of the bone are entire, and there is, in consequence, no separa- tion of the fractured surfaces. The patient was a man sixty years old. He was knocked down, and com- plained of pain in the hip; but there was neither shortening nor eversion of the limb, and its several motions could be exercised with perfect freedom and power. He died with intestinal disease five weeks after the accident. The case is de- scribed by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xiii., p. 511. London, 1825. Case Book, Vol. i., p. 75, No. 114. 33. An Elbow-Joint, exhibiting dislocation of the Radius and Ulna