THIRD SERIES: SUB-SERIES C. lateral union of the two bones, and an abundant deposit of new bone above and below the seat of fracture. 92. Parts of a Tibia and Fibula, in which a compound fracture through the middle of their shafts occurred two years before the amputation of the limb. The several portions of bone, displaced and overlapping, are firmly consolidated by osseous substance deposited between their contiguous and lateral surfaces. The small separate portion of the Tibia was found loose in the cavity of the bone by the side of which it is now placed. Besides the fractures in the central parts of the tibia and fibula, there are fractures running transversely and obliquely through the outer malleolus of the fibula, which have been united by bone. 93. Sections of a Tibia and Fibula, from a limb in which com- pound fracture occurred six months before death. The tibia is broken about one third from its upper end; and its two portions, separated to some distance from each other, are held together by new bone abundantly deposited around their external surfaces. The separate fragments of bone were found loose in the osseous cavity between the ends of the fractured portions. A small detached portion of the wall of the tibia has also been driven into the cancellous tissue of the upper part of the shaft, in which it now lies firmly im- bedded. The fibula is fractured two inches below its head; the two portions overlap each other considerably, and are united by a bridge of osseous matter extending obliquely between their lateral surfaces. :. 94. A Skull, in which there has been a comminuted fracture in the squamous portion of the right temporal bone, from which, also, a fracture extends through the meatus auditorius externus and base of the petrous portion to the base of the skull, and nearly as far as the margin of the foramen magnum. The several portions of the squamous bone which were insulated by the fracture, are firmly re-united, but with narrow intervals remaining between them: the fracture through the base is similarly united.