•271 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. one of the divisions of the left artery, which is more dilated than the rest, there is a deposit of firm fibrine, nearly filling the cavity of the dilated part. One of the divisions of the right pulmonary artery was in a similar state. The cavity of the right ventricle is dilated, and its walls are thickened. Beneath the lining of the aorta is a deposit of the same kind as that in the pulmonary artery, but less abundant. The patient was a woman fifty-three years old. She had emphysema of the lungs, and chronic bronchitis, the signs of which concealed in great measure those of the disease of the pulmonary artery. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 82, No. 119. An External Iliac, Femoral, and Popliteal Artery, with the Femoral and Popliteal Vein, exhibiting a spontaneous Vari- cose Aneurism of the Femoral Artery and Vein, and part of an Aneurism of the posterior tibial artery. The upper piece of glass in the lower aneurismal sac is passed through the posterior tibial artery. The two lower pieces of glass are passed through the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries, both of which are continued from the lower part of the aneurism. The aneurism of the femoral artery is situated just before its passage through the tendon of the triceps femoris muscle: it is a small globular sac, formed by dilata- tion of the whole circumference of the artery. Earthy matter is deposited in the parietes of this aneurism, and it com- municates directly with the femoral vein. The interior of the vein presents a rounded opening, with thin and smooth edges, about a quarter of an inch in diameter. Around this opening the vein is closely united to the aneurism, and imme- diately below it, the cavity of the vein is obliterated to the extent of half an inch. A ligature had been placed around the femoral artery about a week before death. Immediately above the ligature is a large irregular opening in the artery, from which fatal hemorrhage took place. Around this opening, and both above and below the ligature, the whole length of the artery is uniformly dilated to the size of an abdominal aorta, and its coats are very thin. The patient was a man forty-seven years old. The aneurism of the posterior tibial artery had probably existed more than four years, that of the femoral artery about two years. The most striking sign of the disease was a peculiar purring thrill which was felt along the whole course of the femoral artery both