INJURIES OK BONKS AND JOINTS. 135 87. Radius and Ulna of a Dog, on which an experiment was per- formed similar to that described in No. 86; with this excep- tion, that the bone alone was removed, the periosteum being divided and separated by a scalpel from the bone, to admit of the removal of the latter from within it. The vacant space in the radius is here completely filled by newly formed osseous substance. 88. Radius and Ulna of a Dog, in which an experiment was per- formed similar to that described in No. 87, and in which the periosteum was not removed with the bone. The vacancy in the radius is here almost completely filled up by newly formed osseous substance. The ulna has become bent in the situation of the experiment upon the radius, apparently in adaptation to an abundant deposit of osseous substance beneath the periosteum of the radius. The experiment was performed by Mr. Stanley. 89. Portions of a Radius and Ulna. The radius has been fractured a little more than an inch above its carpal end. The union is firm, but there is a prominent angle on the dorsal aspect of the radius in the line of the fracture, and an elevation of new bone on the corresponding part of the palmar surface, where it is probable that the palmar margin of the upper fragment was driven into the cancellous tissue of the lower one. The tri- angular fibro-cartilage was almost completely separated from the radius. 90. Portions of a Tibia, from a case of compound fracture through the middle of its shaft. The portions of the bone, partly overlapping, partly driven into each other, are united by new bone placed between their adjacent surfaces, but not surround- ing them. 91. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting a separation of its shaft from the lower epiphysis, and a fracture extending between the condyles into the knee-joint. The violence of the injury has also occasioned the stripping up of the periosteum from the shaft of the femur to the extent of many inches; and the shaft protruded through the muscles on the inner side of the thigh.