FIFTEENTH SERIES. '294 2. Portion of a Stomach, exhibiting the changes of structure consti- tuting Gelatiniform Cancer, with ulceration of its coats. There is a large and deep ulcer of circular form, the base and borders of which are formed by a thick, hard, fibrous tissue, containing minute cells filled by a clear jelly. In two situa- tions the ulcer has penetrated all the coats of the stomach. 3. A Stomach, with a large round lobular tumour at the pyloric end, and smaller tumours near it. The largest tumour is attached to the exterior of the pylorus and the adjacent parts of the stomach and duodenum. It consists of a close-textured, broken, medullary substance, intersected by white bands. Some of the other tumours project into the cavity of the pyloric portion of the stomach ; and in the corresponding part of the mucous membrane there is a large ulcer with elevated and everted edges. 4. Portion of a Stomach, exhibiting numerous small ulcers in the mucous membrane. The ulcers are from half a line to a line in diameter, round, oval, and angular in form; and some of them were, in the recent state, black, probably with effused blood. From a woman to whom small doses of arsenic had been administered for a fortnight, on account of a cutaneous affection. The mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines appeared highly vascular. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 25, No. 58. 5. The half of a Stomach, enlarged, and exhibiting general thick- ening and induration of its coats, with ulcers in the mucous membrane. In the situation of the mucous and sub-mucous coats is a layer of dense, hard, obscurely fibrous white tissue; and the inner surface of the mucous membrane has a peculiar villous or flocculent appearance. The muscular coat exhibits the appearance of vertical and branching white bands intersect- ing a thick layer of greyish firm tissue. The tissues external to the muscular coat are thickened, indurated, and consolidated with the surrounding parts. From the same person as the diseased large intestine, Series XVT. No. 23. 6. Portion of a Stomach, exhibiting a general thickening of its coats,