DISEASES OP BONK. 27 114. The other half of the preceding specimen macerated. 115. Portion of a Spine, with a Tumour which, originating in the heads of the ribs, has extended into the cavity of the chest, and, through the holes giving passage to the nerves, into the vertebral canal, where it compresses the spinal cord within the fourth and fifth dorsal vertebrae. That part of the tumour which projects into the chest is covered by a thick membrane, which apparently originated in the pleura costalis separated from the ribs; a portion of this membrane has been removed. The tumour, which is probably a softened cartilaginous one, consists of a gelatinous substance, in some parts approaching to the firmness of cartilage, and in others very much softer, and resembling boiled sago. The patient was a mail thirty years old. The compression of the spinal cord produced complete paralysis of the pelvic organs and the lower extremities. 116. Section of a Tumour and of part of a Tibia. The tumour occupies the situation of the head and the upper third of the shaft of the tibia: it apparently originated in the interior of the bone, and extended the wall around it as it grew. At the upper part, the articular surfaces of the tibia and the liga- mentum patellae may be recognized. The tumour consists in part of a white, solid, and very firm medullary substance, and in part of a more vascular and spongy substance, in which there are large cells that were filled by a gelatinous fluid. From a man aged forty. The limb was removed by operation. 117. The Head of a Tibia with a large osseous Tumour surrounding it. The tumour apparently originated from the external surface of the tibia and beneath the periosteum, which in one situa- tion is seen continued from the tibia upon its external surface. In the centre of the tumour is a large irregular cavity which was filled by purulent fluid, and upon one part of its surface are some smaller cavities which were filled with blood, and the sides of which are formed by a dark coloured and soft substance. A part of the interior of the head of the tibia is occupied by a similar osseous substance.