THIRTEENTH SERIES. 270 yellow substance in the coats of the artery ; these increase in the lower part of the artery; the whole of its internal coat also is transversely wrinkled. Presented by J. G. Perry, Esq. 87. The Arch of an Aorta, with the Pulmonary Artery. The aorta is considerably and uniformly dilated in the whole extent of the arch. Its coats are thickened and tuberculated; and, just above one of the semilunar valves, there is a small opening which extends through the coats of the aorta into the conti- guous portion of the pulmonary artery. There is no greater dilatation of the aorta in the situation of this opening than in any other part. 88. Portion of a Brachial Artery, which was torn straight across by external violence. The patient, a gentleman sixty-nine years old, fell with his arm stretched out. At first he seemed little injured; hut pulsation was lost in the radial and ulnar arteries. In a few hours the arm hecame enormously swollen and livid, and amputation near the shoulder was performed. The brachial artery sloughed after being tied at the amputation. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 42, No. 81. Presented by Dr. James Billett. 89. Femoral, Popliteal, and Tibial Arteries, exhibiting abundant deposits of earthy matter in their coats. In some situations, especially in the posterior tibial artery, the earthy matter occupies the whole circumference of the vessel. Its general arrangement is in narrow rings. From an aged man, in whom gangrene of the toes occurred spontaneously a short time before death. 90. A Heart, with the large Vessels attached to it, exhibiting an Aneurism of the Pulmonary Artery with a diseased state of its coats. Beneath the lining membrane of the artery there is a deposit of a white and soft substance, giving to the internal surface of the vessel a tuberculated appearance, which is especially marked in the right branch of the artery. The trunk of the pulmonary artery, from the valves to the bifurca- tion, is uniformly dilated; but its coats appear nearly healthy. Both the right and left pulmonary arteries are dilated ; and in