M FIRST SERIES. ■IG. A Section of the lower part of a Femur, and of a Brain-like Medullary Tumour, which has grown within the condyles and has extended them in a large thin-walled osseous and fibrous cyst. The tumour projects chiefly backwards and laterally ; a part of it is covered by the articular cartilage of the femur, which is extended over it, and in the middle, between the con- dyles, is perforated by the morbid growth penetrating into the knee-joint in front of the crucial ligaments. 47. Sections of the Head, Neck, and Shaft of a Femur, exhibiting suppuration in the cancellous texture. The substance of the bone has undergone no further alteration than the secretion of pus into it, and an increase of its vascularity. 48. A Tibia, the external surface of which is mottled by irregular effusions of blood into its substance, like spots and blotches of Purpura. The three preceding specimens were taken from the same individual. Ihe thigh was amputated, and the suppuration in the medullary texture of the upper part of the femur was consequent on the operation. 49 Sections of the upper half of a Humerus, and of a Medullary Tumour which occupies the place of the shaft of the bone. In one of the sections, a small portion of the diseased structure, distinct from the general mass, has protruded through the walls of the bone. In the other section, the morbid structure is covered by the articular cartilage which belonged to the head of the bone. , . . f The tumour in this instance had a constant and regular pulsation, the cause of Job was not discerned in the examination of the limb. The case is related by Mr. Stanley, in the Medico-Cldrurgical Transactions, Vol. xxvn.., p. au*. London, 1845. 50 A Section of a Tibia, exhibiting deposits of Lymph in the me- ' dullary tissue. Upon the external surface of the bone, m some situations, there is ulceration ; in others, there are irregular de- posits of osseous matter; and some small portions of its walls have suffered necrosis. 51 A Section of a Tibia, in which several irregular thin pieces of the outer wall, and two small portions of the cancellous tissue of the upper part of the shaft, have perished. The surface of the