12 FIRST SERIES. inch to three quarters of an inch in thickness, and consisting throughout of a very finely spongy or porous substance, which is dry, hard, and heavy, but friable and crumbling under the fingers, like hardened mortar. Into this substance both all the diploe and the tables of the skull are changed: in the inner table scarcely any trace, in the outer no trace, of compact sub- stance remains. The grooves and apertures for blood-vessels in the inner table are very strongly marked. These changes are such as are sometimes found in connexion with rickets or with mollities ossium. Among the casts, No. 108 represents a whole skull thus changed. 37. Sections of the lower end of the Tibia and Fibula of a Child. The walls of the bones are thin and soft, and the cells of the ossified portion of its epiphysis are filled by tuberculous matter. 38. Sections of the articular ends of the Femur and Tibia of a young subject, exhibiting the same changes as No. 37. In these, the cells of the cancellous tissue of the adjacent parts of the shafts are also filled by tuberculous matter. 39. Section of the Head, Neck, and upper part of the Shaft of the Femur of a young subject. The cells are filled through- out by tuberculous matter. The articular cartilage in this, as in the preceding similar specimens, is sound. 40. The Bones of two Wrists, together with the lower ends of the Radii and Ulnae and the Metacarpal Bones, exhibiting the effects of Scrofulous Ulceration. On the left side the carpal bones are nearly destroyed, and there are large deep cavities, bounded by soft, greasy, crumbling bone, in the adjacent parts of the bones of the fore-arm and metacarpus : on the right side the ulceration is extensive, but superficial. 41 Section of a Tibia, and of a large Tumour which has formed around its upper third. One half of the tumour, the vessels of which have freely received the injection, is of a soft, fleshy, vascular texture. The other half, into which the injection has not so freely penetrated, consists of a mixture of cartilaginous