INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 177 35. Part of the dorsal portion of a Spine. The anterior half of the body of the seventh dorsal vertebra is almost entirely destroyed by ulceration, and the body of the sixth is deeply idcerated on its anterior surface. By the approximation and union of the sixth and eighth vertebrae, an angular curvature of the spine has been produced. A small rough process of bone has grown from the most prominent part of the angle into the spinal canal. Opposite to this projection the spinal chord was softened, and reduced in size. See Series VII. No. 7. 36. Section of a part of a Spine, including the last six dorsal and the first three lumbar vertebrae. In consequence of dis- ease, probably such ulceration as is shown in the preceding specimen, there has been a considerable loss of substance in the bodies of the last three dorsal vertebrae, and their remains have united at a very acute angle. The osseous substance in the situation of this union is hard and dense. The interverte- bral cartilages in the same situation are reduced in thickness; that between the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae is wholly removed, and that between the first and second lumbar vertebrae has yielded, so as to leave a deep gap between the bodies of those bones. The vertebral canal behind the angular curvature is not narrowed, nor is the medulla spinalis in any degree compressed, though drawn close over the angle in the front wall of the canal. From a lad, who died with lumbar abscess. 37. Section of the dorsal portion of a Spine, in which the anterior parts of the bodies of four vertebrae are ulcerated. A large portion of one of the vertebrae, including one of its interverte- bral cartilages, is destroyed, and angular curvature has been produced. The remaining osseous tissue appears healthy. The periosteum, thickened, indurated, and united with the pleura, is separated from the surfaces of the diseased vertebrae. 38. Section of the upper part of the Spine, of the Occipital Bone, and of the spinal chord, of the patient from whom the specimen last described was taken. The connections of the second N