INJURIES AND DISEASES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 275 and its divided extremities are separated to a distance of nearly half an inch. They are widely open. In the upper part of the artery a coagulum is formed, which almost fills its cavity: in the lower part there are only some irregularly shaped portions of fibrine. 105. Right External Iliac and Femoral Vein. The coats of the vein are much thickened, and are consolidated with the sur- rounding tissues. Its interior is rough with lymph deposited on its lining membrane. The lower and upper parts of the vein, and all the branches proceeding from it, are filled by firm coagula composed of concentric layers of fibrine. The middle portion of the vein contained only soft fibrine and a fluid resembling pus. From a young man, who died after amputation of the right arm, which was performed m consequence of traumatic gangrene. 106. The Base of a Heart, with the large vessels. Two small aneurisms have formed upon the first portion of the arch of the aorta and project into the pericardium, one above, and the other by the right side, of the trunk of the pulmonary artery Portions of coloured glass are passed from the aorta into both the aneunsmal sacs. The lower and larger of them, which opens into the aorta about half an inch above the valves has been laid open: it is nearly filled by dark laminated fibrinous coagula. The smaller sac is nearly empty. The lining membrane of all the first portion of the aorta, is thickened° uneven, and opaque white: small quantities of fatty matter are deposited in and beneath it. The aortic valves are thickened, opaque, rigid, and reduced in breadth. 107. External Pudic Veins from a Horse. The coats of the vems are sound. Within the cavity of one of them there are firm coagula of blood attached to the inner surface of the vein, by solid round cords, behind some of which bristles are passed. One of these cords extends between two of the coagula, without having any attachment to the inside of the vein. c 108. Two Coagula of Blood, which were found attached to the t 2