123 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. backwards, which occurred a considerable time before death. The articular surface of the humerus was completely covered by a newly-formed capsule, the cavity of which is laid open from the front. The head of the radius and the articular surface of the ulna are also inclosed in new capsules, separated from each other and from that which incloses the articular end of the humerus. The sigmoid cavity of the ulna appears to rest on a prominence of bone, extending from the posterior surface of the trochlea of the humerus. The head of the radius is confined in the place which it now occupies by a thick fibrous cord, ex- tending from its upper surface to a process of bone connected with the margin of the humerus just above the outer condyle. 34. A Knee-Joint, exhibiting the consequences of a fracture in the lower part of the femur. The fracture extended transversely through the shaft a little above the condyles, and downwards between the condyles into the joint. The upper portion of the bone was forced downwards by the side of the patella, and a few days after the fracture, it protruded through the integu- ments, and could not be again replaced. In this situation it has become firmly fixed by bone to the condyles and the lower part of the shaft. An inch and a half of the protruding por- tion of the femur perished, and its separation from the living bone had commenced: a shallow groove is formed between them. The articular surfaces of the knee-joint are anchylosed. 35. The Scapular end of a Clavicle, with a small portion of bone united to it by a distinct joint. It is uncertain whether this had heen separated by fracture. 36. Portion of a Scapula exhibiting fracture of the Acromion, which has been united by fibrous tissue. 37. Portion of a Sternum fractured upon its internal surface by a bullet, which has become firmly imbedded in the surface of the bone, and in new bone deposited so as to form a shallow pit beneath it. 38. Portion of a Skull in which an extensive fracture of the adja-