THIRD SERIKS. 138 of the overlapping ends of the fragments are very thin, as if in that progress of absorption by which, ultimately, the cancellous tissue of the uniting medium would have become continuous with that of both portions of the broken bone. 99. Section of a Tibia, in which a compound fracture occurred six months before death. The fractured surfaces, displaced and overlapping, are consolidated by bony matter. The extremity of one of the portions of fractured bone, separated either by the fracture or by exfoliation, lies loose in a cavity between the fractured surfaces. The portion of bone at the bottom of the bottle was found loose in the same cavity. The other half of the hone is preserved dry, C. 93. 100. Section of the Head and Neck of a Femur, with the Os Innominatum of a man in whom dislocation of the femur and fracture of the acetabulum occurred fifty years before death. The dislocation was reduced ; but, soon after, the head of the bone again escaped from the acetabulum, and was not again reduced. The head and neck of the femur are altered in form ; shortened, flattened, and much increased in their vertical diameter ; and the cancellous tissue of a thick layer of the head of the femur is consolidated and hard. A new and deep osseous cavity, with very thick walls, extends from the os innominatum, as if growing out from the original acetabulum, and incloses the head and a part of the neck of the femur. The wall of bone by which this cavity is separated from that of the pelvis, and which includes the former floor of the aceta- bulum, is an inch and a quarter in thickness, and is chiefly formed, like the rest of the walls of the cavity, of hard com- pact new bone. The surface of the cavity and that of the head of the femur are covered and partially connected by fibrous tissue: they have no articular cartilage. The obturator in- ternus muscle and sciatic nerve are seen in their natural situa- tions, but are flattened in consequence of the altered form and enlargement of the surrounding parts. The patient was eighteen years old at the time of the dislocation. His limb was a little shortened, but he had good use of it. Case Book, Vol. i., p. 128, No. 1S4.