159 IN.TUK1KS 01' HONKS A NT) JOINTS. opposite surfaces of the head and shaft, which have been in apposition, are covered by a layer of hard osseous substance. There is a considerable deposit of new bone at the bottom of the acetabulum, and upon the head of the femur. The signs of fracture of the neck of the femur were not presented till six weeks after the injury, and two weeks after the patient had begun to walk on crutches. Presented by Thomas Wormald, Esq. 77. The bones of an Elbow-Joint, exhibiting the effects of dis- location and fracture, which occurred many years before death, and which were followed by long-continued inflam- mation of the bones. The head of the radius has been dislocated forwards. The shaft of the ulna has been broken a little below the olecranon. The head of the radius, mis- shapen, elongated, and flattened, appears to have rested and moved obliquely across the front and outer part of the lower end of the shaft of the humerus. A cavity is here formed on the humerus, to which the head of the radius fits; and their opposed surfaces are covered by hard, ivory-like, polished, and perforated bone. The fractured surfaces of the ulna, not uniting, have moved freely upon each other, the upper portion resting in a deep pit on the lower. All the bones are enlarged, and the radius and ulna are united by bone abundantly formed between them and upon their surfaces. Presented by Dr. Hooper. 78. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting a depression and shortening of the neck, with flattening of the head, and formation of bone around its margin. From an aged person. It was believed, from the circumstances of the case, that the neck of the femur had been fractured in a fall; but there are no indications of a fracture having been united. Presented by Thomas Warner, Esq. 79. A Humerus and Scapula, exhibiting dislocation which occurred a considerable time before death. The head of the humerus was displaced upwards and backwards upon the dorsum of the scapula, Its anterior margin rested against the inferior surface and the outer edge of the spine of the scapula, in which