SIXTH SERIES. •202 17. Portion of Cerebrum, exhibiting an abscess in the upper part of one of its hemispheres, with the dura mater which covered it. The abscess communicates with the lateral ventricle by the aperture through which a bristle is passed. The internal surface of the abscess is rough, and that of the ventricle is lined by lymph. Lymph is also deposited upon the dura mater, and there is an ulcerated aperture in it, which commu- nicated with the cavity of the abscess, and through which a bristle is passed. The patient, a child four years old, had an extensive scalp-wound of the right side, followed hy suppuration, sloughing, and exposure of the cranium. A month after the injury was received, and while all seemed proceeding favourably, the child was seized with convulsions, which were followed by partial paralysis and insensibility. By the trephine, a small quantity of matter was let out from between the skull and dura mater, but without relief; and the child died three days after the convulsions began. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 62, No. 107. 48. Section of the upper part of one hemisphere of a Cerebrum, exhibiting a large oval mass of tuberculous matter in its sub- stance and between the membranes. A portion of the dura mater has a thick layer of tuberculous matter adhering to its inner surface. From the same man as the penis, Series XXXI. No. 31, and the kidney, Scries XXVI. No. 18. 49. A Cerebellum, with the Pons and Medulla Oblongata. Blood is diffused through a great portion of the substance of the pons, and extends nearly to its outer surface. From a stout hearty man, who died an hour after a sudden attack of apo- plexy. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 29. No. 64. Presented by Herbert Evans, Esq. 50. A Cerebellum, with the Pons and Medulla Oblongata. A large irregularly oval mass of tubercle is imbedded in the inferior and posterior part of one hemisphere of the cerebel- lum. A section of the tubercle displays the uniform, soft, vellow substance of which it is composed. The patient was twenty years old, and phthisical. Five months before death he began to complain of coldness and numbness from the feet to the knees; this gradually increased, till three weeks Inter he had almost complete loss of sensa- tion ;md voluntary motion up to the hips, attended with extreme rigidity and convulsive movements of the muscles of the lower extremities, and of the abdo-