INJURIES AND DISEASES OE ARTERIES AND VEINS. into a large aneurismal sac. The dilatation begins directly above the valves, and terminates abruptly just beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery. The interior of the sac is very unevenly tuberculated : it contains no coagulum, and has burst into the pulmonary artery. The patient was a man forty-five years old. While apparently in good health, he was seized with pain in the chest, dyspnoea, and intermittent pulse, and died in eighteen hours. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 125, No. 148. 16. Section of the lower part of an Abdominal Aorta, with an Aneurism formed by the dilatation and growth of a small portion of its posterior wall. A piece of bougie is introduced into an aperture by which the sac burst. The coats of the aorta, except in the dilated part, appear quite healthy: the interior of the sac is coarsely tuberculated. 17. Parts of an Abdominal Aorta, and of the Vena Cava Inferior. Both vessels are imbedded in a mass of enlarged lymphatic glands. The coats of the aorta are thickened, and its cavity is contracted just above its division into the iliac arteries. The vena cava, to the extent of three inches above the iliac veins, is completely filled by concentric layers of fibrine which are ad- herent to its inner surface. 18. Part of the Arch of an Aorta, with its large vessels, exhibiting an Aneurism of the Arteria Innominata pressing upon the trachea. The sac appears to be formed by dilatation of the whole circumference of a part of the artery, and contains laminated coagulum, the deposit of which has extended across the orifice of the right carotid artery, so as completely to close it. The canal of the trachea is slightly narrowed by the pressure of the aneurism. The patient was a girl twenty years old. For a fortnight before her death she was subject to paroxysms of dyspnoea, and in one of these she died. The case is related by Mr. Lawrence, in the Medioo-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. vi. p. 227, London, 1815. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 122, No. 145. 19. A Femoral Artery, and Vein, from a Stump. The coats of the vein are generally thickened and indurated. Lymph is de- posited upon the whole of the inner surface of the vein, as high