DISEASES OF BONE. 33 substance, and in part of a soft substance, spongy and cellular in some situations, and like a medullary tumour in others. A portion of the periosteum is separated, to show that the morbid growth has originated beneath the membrane from the surface of the bone itself. The smaller tumour connected with one side of the morbid mass occupied the situation of the popliteal lymphatic glands, and consists throughout of bone, partly ivory-like and partly spongy. 140. The other half of the Tibia and Tumour last described, from which the soft matter has been removed by maceration. 141. Section of the Stump of the Femur from the same patient as the specimens 139 and 140. The extremity of the bone is covered by skin. Within the medullary cavity are distinct morbid deposits, consisting partly of osseous, and partly of soft, matter. The patient was a middle-aged woman in whom the disease made slow progress for sixteen years, and gave little or no pain till three months before the amputation of the limb. She died eight weeks after the amputation with similar osteoid growths in the inguinal glands and lungs, and with wart-like tumours scattered over the diaphragm. 142. Section of a Femur from a Stump, exhibiting an irregular osseous deposit upon its surface, immediately above its extremity which has perished. 143. The Tibia of a Dog, in which Necrosis of part of the shaft was produced by destruction of the Medulla. The dead bone was separated by natural processes, and has been removed, with the exception of a small portion which is distinguishable in the centre of the new osseous cylinder. The new bone presents a very irregular external surface, and is firmly united to the articular ends of the old bone. The preparation was obtained by an experiment made by Mr. Stanley. 144. Portions of a Tibia and Fibula from a Stump. The fibula is united to the tibia by ossification of the interosseous ligament. An irregular deposit of new bone has taken place on the ex- ternal surface of both bones for a considerable distance above their extremities. D