THIRD SERIES. 118 The plane of fracture extends from the posterior border of the upper articular surface to the middle of the posterior surface of the tuberosity. The patient fell from a height, but did not strike his heel; and it appeared certain that the fracture of the os calcis was produced by the action of the muscles of the leg. He died of other injuries received in the fall. 10. Portion of a Femur, in which fracture of the neck and of the trochanter major occurred six weeks before death. The direc- tion of the fracture is still evident; it extended through the base of the neck, and through the base of the trochanter major, nearly detaching this process from the rest of the bone. The head and neck were forced downwards and impacted between the trochanters. The several parts of the bone thus brought into contact are united so firmly that they could not be moved upon each other. 11. Portion of a Femur, in which there has been fracture of the neck and of the upper part of the shaft. The plane of one fracture extended through the base of the neck; that of the other extended vertically through the trochanters, so as to separate the posterior parts of these processes and of the bone between them. The head and neck of the femur are driven downwards and impacted in the cleft through the trochanters : and in this position the fractured portions are firmly united. 12. Portions of a Femur in which there has been fracture through the base of the neck, and, apparently, a fracture through the trochanter major like that in the specimen last described. The base of the neck has been driven into the cancellous tissue be- tween the trochanters, in which situation it is firmly united by bone and fibrous tissue. The fracture of the trochanter has been firmly united by bone. 13. An Elbow-Joint, in which the head of the radius was dislocated backwards. No reduction of the dislocated bone having been effected, it has become extensively united to the side of the ulna. There appears, also, to have been a fracture of the internal condyle. All the bones are atrophied.