INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE STOMACH. 29£) smaller size and irregular in form, which have removed only the mucous memhrane. Their margins are clean and abrupt, and their bases are smooth. The intervening tissue appears healthy. 26. The Cardiac portion of a Stomach, with the lower part of the oesophagus. There are six superficial ulcers of irregular shape, and from two lines to half an inch in width, in the mucous membrane just below the cardiac orifice. Their margins are clearly defined, their bases smooth, and of a deep black colour, from blood effused in and upon them and discoloured by the action of the gastric fluid. All the adjacent textures of the stomach appear healthy. In the lower part of the oesophagus the epithelium has been removed : its bloodvessels are in many parts intensely congested, and the blood in them is deeply blackened. From an elderly man who died with granular disease of the kidneys, dropsy, and enlarged heart, without any probability of haying taken poison, and without having exhibited any remarkable signs of disease of the stomach. 27. The Stomach of a woman who died ten days after taking sulphuric acid. Part of its mucous membrane is soft and of a dirty ash-brown colour, and near its pyloric end a portion be- tween three and four inches in diameter has sloughed, and, except at one margin, has been completely separated. The slough hangs loosely; it is very soft and flocculent at its edges, and of brown and yellow colour. About the cardiac orifice of the stomach, (which is shown at the back of the preparation,) there is a rough and somewhat granulated surface, from which a layer of mucous membrane, after sloughing, completely separated. 28. Part of the (Esophagus of the same patient, exhibiting an extensively and irregularly ulcerated surface, from which a slough of the mucous membrane separated. The destruction has been most extensive in the lower part of the cesophao-us, the ulcerated and granulating surface of which was continuous with that of the cardiac orifice of the stomach, shown in the preceding preparation. Part of the slough, a portion of which