INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 183 vertebra, the ribs are directed forwards and to the left, with narrow intercostal spaces. The left ribs, crowded together in the concavity of the curve, are directed almost horizontally, first outwards, and then straight forwards ; only their extreme ends and their cartilages being directed inwards to the sternum. The sternum and anterior walls of the thorax, are arched as much as the lateral walls are in their natural state; while the lateral walls are as flat as the anterior should be. The cavity of the pelvis is of ordinary size, but its antero- posterior axis, in correspondence with the obliquity of the lumbar vertebrae, is directed obliquely, from before back- wards, and from right to left. 17. A Spine, Thorax, and Pelvis. The spine, in its dorsal region, is curved with the convexity backwards and a little to the right. The thorax, projecting very far forwards, is flattened at its sides; its transverse diameter is only five inches ; its antero-posterior diameter is eight inches and a half. The pelvis is of nearly natural form and size ; but its obliquity is somewhat lessened, and its antero-posterior dia- meter is rather diminished, while its transverse diameter is, in an equal degree, increased. 18. The Spine of an aged person, which, in its whole extent, is curved with the convexity backwards, and a little to the right. The bones are all healthy, but light. 19. The Spine and Pelvis of a young person. The spine exhi- bits three slight lateral curves; the first, in the superior dorsal region, is directed to the left; the second, in the middle dorsal region, to the right; and the third, in the inferior dorsal and superior lumbar region, to the left again. The pelvis is remarkably deformed. The internal surfaces of the ilia are unnaturally concave, and their crests are in- curved. The ischia are approximated, so that their spines are only an inch and a quarter, and their tuberosities only half an inch, apart: their ascending rami are directed almost vertically and parallel to each other, with a distance of from half to three quarters of an inch from each other: they are