DISEASES' OF BONE. 53 muscles are left connected with the periosteum, over which they were spread out in the growth of the tumour. 236. Another section of the same parts. A portion of the tumour has been so removed as to show the surface of the wall of the ilium on which it rested, and parts of which are absorbed in minute round holes and irregular spaces through which the growth without appears to dip in, and be connected with that within the ilium. 237. Another section of the same Ilium macerated, to show the same partial absorption of its walls, and the other changes which it has undergone by the growth of the tumour. 238. Portion of the Periosteum of the same Ilium, with fragments of the Medullary Tumour held together by fibrous bands and cords, and blood-vessels, somewhat like those of an erectile tissue. These pass from the inner surface of the periosteum, intersecting the substance of the tumour. 239. A Medullary Tumour, removed from the arm of the patient from whom the four preceding specimens were taken. It is of elongated oval form, soft and spongy in its texture, and has a few cells scattered through it. Its proper colour is pale, and nearly white: but it is blotched with many spots of vascularity and effused blood. It is invested by a thin fibro- cellular capsule, with which a part of the brachial artery and median nerve are closely connected. 240. Portion of the Heart of the same patient, with a small Medul- lary Tumour imbedded in its muscular substance near its apex. 241. The Lower part of the Aorta and the iliac arteries of the same patient. The left common iliac artery was tied three days be- fore death. Its internal and middle coats are cut through by the ligature : above the line of section is a portion of a large clot which had formed above the ligature. The patient was a man forty-two years old. The tumour in the arm had existed for ten years, and had not grown for three years. The tumour of the ilium had been growing rather quickly for about a year. It presented a distinct, deep, heavy pulsation, a bruit, and many other signs like those of an aneurism :