4H DISEASES OF BONE. the new bone has been separated from the shaft of the tibia, to show that it was all formed in the periosteum, or between it and the surface of the old bone, and that the latter is unaltered. 220. Portion of a Femur, of which the lower extremity is expanded into a large Cyst, which was filled by liquid and coagulated blood and a small quantity of brain-like medullary substance. The cyst is nearly globular; its walls are from a line to two lines in thickness, composed of thin plates of bone and fibrous membrane, smooth externally, and presenting inter- nally at some parts a rough surface of bone, and at others numerous prominent decussating fibrous bands and cords, like the texture of the basis of a spleen or of erectile tissue. To these bands, as well as to the osseous surface, loose flocculi and small portions of brain-like substance are adherent. Below, the cyst is bounded by the articular cartilages, of which the texture is unaltered; above, by the shaft of the femur which terminates abruptly just before it is expanded into the cyst. The shaft above the cyst presented numerous small spots of effused blood, like ecchymosis beneath the periosteum. From a gentleman thirty years of age, in whom the tumour had heen two years in progress. Four years after the amputation of the limb he was in good health. 221. The upper part of a Femur, the surface of which is irregularly, and for the most part superficially, ulcerated. Small portions only of the external lamellae remain, and these are in many parts covered by a thin layer of new bone. The epiphyses of the great trochanter and the head of the bone have separated. These changes were consequent on sloughing over the great trochanter, which ensued in a prolonged case of psoas abscess in a young subject. 222. The lower part of a Femur, from the front of which a broad flat exostosis had grown, and was removed by operation. The surface from which the exostosis was cut is rough : it is formed of cancellous tissue of healthy aspect. The ex- ostosis was composed of a similar tissue invested by a thin layer of compact substance. The upper margin of the base of the exostosis is very nearly three inches above the border of the articular cartilage of the trochlea of the femur; but it £