THIRD SERIES. 1-20 19. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting fracture of the neck of the Femur within the capsule, which occurred many years before death. The neck of the bone is absorbed. Bristles are passed beneath three thick fibrous bands, which extend from the fractured surface of the head of the bone to the capsule. The capsule is generally thickened, as if by the organization of lymph upon its internal surface : and the fractured surfaces are covered by thin smooth layers of fibrous tissue. 20. A Hip-Joint, in which a dislocation of the head of the Femur upon the ischiatic notch occurred about three weeks before death. The ligamentum teres has been torn across its middle; no union of it has taken place. The cartilage covering the head of the bone is in part absorbed. The opening in the capsule through which the head of the bone escaped was situated at the posterior part of the joint. Only a small part of this opening is visible, the larger part of it being closed by the union of the torn edges of the capsule. The acetabulum is fractured, but it is doubtful whether this occurred during life. 21. Sections of the Head and Neck of a Femur, from an aged woman. On the surface of each section, a white line is visible, which extends obliquely from above downwards and inwards, in a plane which would include the base of the neck at its upper part and the base of the head at its lower part. The line marks the section of a thin layer of fibrous tissue, and appears to indicate that a fracture of the neck of the femur has been united partly by fibrous tissue and partly by bone. The head of the femur is below the great trochanter, and there is an accumulation of bone on the posterior surface of the neck, in a line corresponding with the direction of the presumed fracture. 22. Sections of the Head and Neck of the other Femur of the same woman. They present the same appearances as those last described, but the line of fibrous tissue is here uninterrupted, while in the preceding it is in some places interrupted by small portions in which the osseous tissue is continuous, as if the fracture had in them united by bone. The preparations were taken from a body supplied for dissection, of which no history could be obtained.