98 SECOND SERIES. 41 Portion of the Synovial Membrane, with the Patella, from the Knee-Joint last described. The synovial membrane is con- siderably thickened, its internal surface is granulated, and portions of it in irregular pulpy masses overlay, so that they nearly conceal, the cartilaginous surface of the patella. 42 Portion of the Base of a Skull, exhibiting partial absorption of ' the surface of the glenoid cavity, the effect of disease m the ar- ticulation of the lower jaw. 43 Two Hip-Joints from the same person. In each joint the ligamentum teres is completely wanting. The capsule of each is perfect and exhibited no appearance of disease. In the usual situation of the attachment of the ligamentum teres there is a deep depression in the head of the femur, and just above this, the cartilage of each femur is slightly absorbed. 44 The Hip-Joint of a young subject. Dislocation of the femur occurred after disease of long standing. The head of the femur lies upon the ischium, close to the notch and a little above the tuberosity, in contact with the great ischiatic nerve under which bristles are passed. Immediately below the head of the bone is the obturator externus muscle. The articular car- tiLe of the femur has been completely absorbed; the surface of the bone is ulcerated and covered by lymph andI granulans No remains of the capsule are apparent. The shaft of the femur is fractured immediately below the trochanter. The fracture of the Femur occurred during life, and was probably the conse- Qul™ere convulsions of the thigh which bad «■£. symptoms of chorea, through the week previous \^\^™*^m * inflamed, and separated from the bone some mches below the fracture. 45 A Knee-Joint, exhibiting the effects of acute inflammation Effecting chiefly the articular cartilages The synovial mem- brane is slightly thickened and increased m vascularity. Upon «lla, as well as upon the outer condyle of the femur and he head of the tibia, the free surface of the articular cartilage s extensively absorbed. There has also been some absorption of its deep or attached surface, so that its connexion with the