316 SIXTEENTH SERIES. diarrhoea again ensued, attended by severe pain and tenderness of the abdomen, constant vomiting, and fever. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 194, No. 214. Presented by Dr. Baly. 79. Portion of an Ileum, from a case of typhus fever. Sloughs, in- cluding large portions of two patches of Peyer's glands, have heen separated, and other portions, nearly detached, hang in loose shreds into the cavity of the intestine. The surface, exposed by the separation of the sloughs, is formed by the circular muscular fibres of the intestine, which appear healthy, and is surrounded by a thin overhanging border of apparently healthy mucous membrane. Several small ulcers, remaining after the complete separation of sloughs of the solitary glands, are situated between the two principal ulcers. Presented by Dr. Hue. 80. Portion of a Colon, from a case of dysentery. Small por- tions of the surface of the mucous membrane, of various forms, are removed by ulceration. All the ulcers are situated on the free margins of the transverse folds of the mucous mem- brane, and by the sides of the lines formed by the longitudinal bands of muscular fibres. Their form is generally oval, or elongated in the direction of the transverse folds. 81. Another portion of the same Colon, from its lower part. By the extension of such ulcers as are shown in the preceding specimen, nearly the whole surface of the mucous membrane is removed. Portions of it remain hanging in shreds: and in some places the ulceration has extended to the muscular coat. The coats of the intestine were soft, easily torn, dark, and infil- trated with dirty-coloured fluid. From a patient in the Penitentiary, at Millbank. The whole length of the colon was similarly diseased; the extent of the disease increasing from the upper to the lower part. Presented by Dr. Baly. 82. Portion of a descending Colon, the canal of which is at one part suddenly reduced to a quarter of an inch in diameter. Its walls at this part are slightly thickened and indurated, and a narrow band passes across its canal, dividing into two small apertures the orifice by which the portions above and below