14-2 THIRD SERIES articular cartilages have been more or less deeply removed: the surfaces of the bones are in several places exposed, hard, and polished ; and their margins are nodulated. 112. A right Shoulder-Joint, exhibiting an unreduced dislocation of the humerus of long standing. The head of the humerus, with a great part of its cartilage removed, and its articular surface hardened, rests on the anterior surface of the scapula, with a thick layer of fibrous tissue intervening between it and the bone. It is directly below, and nearly in contact with, the coracoid process, just on the inner side of the glenoid cavity, but not below its level: the axillary artery and plexus of nerves are close to it on its anterior and inner aspect. The infra- spinatus, teres minor, and sub-scapularis muscles are shown retaining their natural connexions with the head of the humerus, A part of the capsule also is shown. The glenoid cavity retains its natural form, but its articular cartilage is thin and has numerous shreds, apparently of fibrous tissue, upon it. From the same person as the preparation last described. The body was brought to the dissecting rooms, and no history of it could be obtained. 113. Sections of the Tibia of a middle-aged woman, which was fractured through the junction of its middle and lower thirds, sixteen weeks before death. The ends of the two portions overlap each other nearly an inch ; and a firm union of them is effected ■ by new bone, formed between those surfaces, which, in their overlapping, were opposed to, and partly in contact with, each other. No new bone or callus is formed at any other part. The periosteum and the tissues adjacent to the bones appeared healthy, except in having small effusions of blood in them. 114. The Femur of a Fowl, fractured obliquely through the middle of its shaft. The ends of the two portions overlapping, are firmly united by bone formed between them and upon their sides. 115. The Femur and Tibia of a Cat. A fracture of the femur near the middle of the shaft, has been united by bone formed around and between the ends of the overlapping fragments. A small