128 THIRD SERIES. tendons of the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus are detached from the humerus, but retain their connexion with the capsule. The tendons of the teres minor and sub-scapularis retain their attachment to the humerus. There is a large lacerated aperture in the capsule. 56. A Hip-Joint, exhibiting a dislocation of the head of the Femur downwards and backwards, which occurred twelve hours before death. The head of the bone is situated on the ischium, opposite to the lesser ischiatic notch and the upper part of the tube- rosity. The tendon of the obturator internus is torn from its muscular fibres; some of the fibres of the pyriformis, gemelli, and glutaeus minimus are also torn. There is also a fracture extending through the os innominatum near the acetabulum. The patient was a maniac, who leaped from a third story window. He died of other injuries received at the Bame time. The case is puhlished by Mr. Wormald, in the London Medical Gazette, Vol. xix., p. 657, London, 1837. 57. The Bones of a Great Toe. The second phalanx, dislocated on the upper surface of the first phalanx, has there become firmly fixed by bone. 58. Portion of a Humerus, which has been fractured near the middle of its shaft. New bone is formed upon its outer surface, imme- diately above and below the fracture. The extremity of the lower portion of the bone has perished, and is in progress of exfoliation. The fractured surfaces were united by a soft substance; and a distinct capsule has been formed around the ends of the bone by the condensation of the surrounding cellu- lar tissue. From a girl twenty-three years old. The fracture was caused by external violence six years before death, while she was affected with syphilis. Presented by William Taylor, Esq. 59. A Shoulder-Joint. The capsule is thickened : in its upper part is an irregular opening, and the tendon of the supra-spinatus is here seen to have been torn away from the tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of the biceps appears also to have been torn near its attachment to the glenoid cavity, and has become \