SIXTEENTH SERIES. 312 above the anus; and above the ulcerated part it is slightly thickened. The muscular and other coats of the intestine are thicker and denser than is natural, but exhibit no morbid alteration of their tissue. 65. A Caecum, with its Appendix. The appendix is dilated and its walls are thickened. In the middle of its course there are two large ulcerated apertures penetrating its coats; which apertures, it is presumed, were the consequence of the lodge- ment of a gall-stone in its cavity. From a man thirty-eight years old. The gall-stone became lodged in the ap- pendix nine days before death : it produced peritonitis, and complete obstruction of the intestines for four days before death. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 99, No. 129. Presented by H. Bateman, Esq. 66. Portion of small Intestine, in which, over an ulcer of the mucous membrane, tuberculous matter is deposited in small masses in the tissue beneath the peritoneum. The lymphatics proceeding from this part and ramifying between the coats of the intestine are also rilled with tuberculous matter. From a man between twenty and thirty years old. He had disease of the hip- joint of twelve years' standing, and extensive tuberculous disease of the small in- testines and several other organs. 67. Portion of a Duodenum and Stomach, from a young man. A circular ulcer with smooth abrupt margins has completely penetrated the coats of the duodenum close to the pylorus. The patient had a hernia, and the signs of peritonitis, produced by the escape of the contents of the duodenum through the ulcer, so nearly coincided with an ap- parent increase of the protrusion, that it was supposed the hernia had become strangulated. Previous to the perforation of the intestine the patient had been subject to dyspepsia. He died about fourteen hours after the commencement of the peritonitis. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 165, No. 189. 68. Portion of a Rectum. At a distance of about three inches from the anus, the greater part of the circumference of the intestine is occupied by a firm medullary tumour, growing from beneath its mucous membrane. The mucous membrane is healthy. The tissues around that part of the rectum which is occupied by the morbid structure, are thickened and condensed. Some