rHIRD SERIES. 47. A Shoulder-Joint with the shaft of the Humerus, exhibiting dislocation and fracture. The head of the humerus is thrown forwards beneath the coracoid process. The tendon of the long head of the biceps is entire. The tendons of the supra- spinal, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and sub-scapularis muscles are also entire. There have been two fractures in the shaft of the bone, and they are both firmly united. The injury consisted, in the first instance, of the dislocation and a single frac- ture. No attempt was made to reduce the dislocation, and when the fracture had united, the patient fell down, and the second fracture then occurred. 48. Section of the Cartilage of a Rib, which has been fractured and is firmly united. The uniting medium consists of a substance like cartilage with small deposits of bone in it. 49. Portion of a Femur, in which fracture of the neck occurred many years before death. The neck of the bone is absorbed: both the fractured surfaces are thinly covered by fibrous tissue; and that of the head has become firmly united to the lower part of the thickened capsule by a broad band of fibrous or ligamentous substance. 50. Portion of a Femur, exhibiting fracture of its neck. The plane of the fracture is vertical, extending from the upper margin of the head straight downwards through the neck to the outer part of its lower border. Bristles are introduced between the frac- tured surfaces, which are in close apposition, and it will be observed that the attachment of the capsule to the bones is entirely beyond the line of the fracture. That portion of the neck of the bone which remained connected with the trochanters is partly absorbed, and the union of the fractured surfaces, although not complete, is by osseous matter inlaid between them. The individual from whom this specimen was taken was eighteen years of age. In a fall from a cart he injured his right hip; such symptoms ensued as gave rise to the belief that he had dislocated the head of the femur into the foramen ovale. Efforts at reduction were accordingly made. About three months after the injury he died with small pox. The case is described by Mr. Stanley in the Medioo- Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. xviii. p. 256, London, 1833. Case Book, Vol. i. p. 86, No. 122.