288 FOURTEENTH SERIES. tuberculous cavities. There is a third aperture near them, of smaller size, and partially closed by false membrane. At the upper part of the lung there is a large cavity ; and all the rest of the pulmonary tissue is occupied by tuberculous disease in different stages. 41. Section of the upper part of a Lung, in which a soft material, resembling mortar, and mixed with particles of calcareous sub- stance, has been deposited in small cavities, which, it may be presumed, were previously occupied by tuberculous matter. Sections of two cavities are seen filled with this substance ; two others have been partially emptied. The surrounding pulmonary tissue is condensed, dry, and of a dark grey colour, from the quantity of black matter deposited in it. The surface of the lung is deeply wrinkled and contracted over the remains of the cavities; and several bands of false membrane are attached to it at the same part. Prom a patient who died of a disease independent of this condition of his lungs, and from whom the specimen of partially healed tuberculous ulceration of the large intestine (Scries XVI. No. 71) was taken. 42. Portion of a Lung, with corresponding portions of pulmonary and costal pleura, from a case of empyema of long standing. The tissue of the lung is compressed. Both portions of pleura are covered by a layer of organized lymph, a line in thickness and coarsely granulated on its inner surface. The space between these layers was full of pus. 43. Portion of a Lung, in which there are several circumscribed deposits of a very firm, white and greyish, carcinomatous sub- stance. Most of the deposits are on the surface of the lung and are flattened by the resistance of the wall of the chest. They are from a quarter to half an inch in diameter and irregular in their forms. The adjacent tissue of the lung is healthy. From the same patient as the fibrous tumours of the breast, Scries XXXA .. and No. 24 in Series XV. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 151, No. 175. 44. Section of the upper lobe of a Lung, the texture of which has been consolidated and rendered hard, dense, and dry, by chronic inflammation. It has retained almost exactly the