NINTH SERIES. •220 The whole of the substance taken away projected beyond the sclerotica; it consists of a pale firm mass, in the middle of which is the thickened cornea. Upon its internal surface are some remains of the iris with its black pigment. 17. An Eye, which was removed on account of carcinomatous disease, from a middle-aged man. The tissues of the anterior and inferior third of the eye are occupied by an irregular growth of firm and very vascular substance, with a granulated, warty, and vascular surface. The optic nerve, of which a portion is pre- served, is sound. There was no return of disease in the orbit; but the patient died with medullary tumours in the heart, and in some other parts, two years after the extirpation of the eye. His skull is preserved in Sub-series A. No. 49; part of his dura mater in Series VI. No. 63 ; his optic nerve in this Series, No. 20; and his heart in Series XII. No. 60. 18. Sections of an Eye, of which the Globe is almost completely filled by a mass of medullary and melanotic substance. The diseased growth appears to have originated between the choroid membrane and the retina. The former still surrounds it; the latter, entire but pressed to one side of the eye, is exhibited in the upper part of the preparation. The lens is pressed forwards into contact with the inner surface of the cornea ; the iris forms a narrow ring around its margin. At the back of the preparation are seen two considerable staphylomatous projections of the sclerotica, which, before the removal of the eye, were observable at the lower and outer part of the front of the globe. The patient was a girl twenty years old. The disease had existed more than six months, and for three months its progress had been attended by extreme pain. She remained well for three years after the operation. Then, melanotic disease was developed in the liver, heart, and many other parts; but the disease did not return in the orbit. A cast of the liver is preserved : a portion of her heart is in Series XII. No. 41; and her pancreas in Series XXI. No. 4. The case is related by Mr. Lawrence in a Clinical Lecture in the London Medical Gazette, Vol. xxxvi. p. 961, London, 1845. Case-Book, Vol. i. p. 150, No. 174. 19. An Eye, with which a large Brain-like Tumour is connected. The tumour has protruded to a considerable distance through the eye-lids, which it has completely inverted and pushed back into the orbit. Its anterior part is covered with shreds of soft sloughing tissue. The eye is filled with the diseased structure,