No. I. SURGICAL NOTES A Eecord of some of the moee interesting Cases observed, AND of some of THE EeMARKS MADE, ON MONDAYS AND Thursdays, at the Surgical Dispensary of THE "Western Infirmary, Glasgow. BY J. CRAWFORD RENTON, M.D., ASSISTANT TO THE PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW ; SURGEON TO THE DISPENSARY OF THE WESTERN INFIRMARY ; AND SURGEON TO THE EYE INFIRMARY, GLASGOW. EDINBURGH AND LONDON: YOUNG J. PENTLAND. GLASGOW: A. STENHOUSE. 1889. a Store 32585University of Glasgow Library 30114015964664CONTENTS. Page Introduction, _____ 5 Injury to Hand, ----- 6 Orchitis, - - - - '- - 7 Scalp Wound, _____ g Periostitis, ______ 9 Syphilitic Disease of the Palate, - - - 10 Catarrh of the Bladder, - - - - 10 Strumous Glands, - - - - - 12 Hernia in Children, - '- - _ - 13 Enlarged Prostate, - - - - - 15i I J kSURGICAL NOTES. WINTER SESSION 1888-89. Gentlemen, Before commencing the actual work of this session in the Surgical Dispensary, I wish to explain to you how I conduct this CHnic on Mondays and Thursdays, at two o'clock. Those students who are able to attend on these days will hand in their names to me to-day, a list will be prepared, and each student will be called in order to examine the cases coming for advice. He will answer the questions put to him, perform minor operations, apply dressings, and be to a certain extent responsible for the management of the case during the time of attendance. The class of cases which will come before you are those affected with minor surgical ailments as a rule, and are similar to those you will require to attend to when you undertake for yourselves the practice of your profession." I therefore ask you to come regularly, and follow not only the cases you are personally examined on, but all the cases, and it will be my earnest endeavour to make everything clear to you ; and I hope that if any remarks I do make are not quite plain, you will ask for an explanation. You have to contend with the disadvantage, that many of the cases do not attend regularly, and some you may only see once or twice; but out of the large number who do attend, you will certainly be able to gain a considerable amount of practical experience for future use. In addition to noting patient's name, age, &c., we inquire as to their own medical man, and where they have one, a note is written to him with our opinion and advice. This is better than trusting the patient with the6 SURGICAL NOTES. message, is more satisfactory to the medical man, and avoids much of the discomfort which is occasioned by patients report- ing what the Doctor at the Infirmary said. Those of you who are not so much occupied as most students are, will find it an advantage to take notes of the cases, and the remarks made about them; and at the end of the session you will give me these note-books, and to the best I will give a prize, as I have done for the last few years. We begin the hour by seeing those cases who are here for the first time; and to enable you to see as many as possible, we are assisted by a senior student. This winter Mr Campbell has kindly agreed to do so. He sees that the patients are ready with dressings, and clothes removed where that is necessary, and he also examines the cases treated formerly here, so that only those of importance are seen every day. I may sometimes ask you to visit patients at their own homes, which is one department in Glasgow not sufiiciently developed, although within the last year there is greater opportunity for visiting work since Professors Cleland and Charteris took the matter up, and I would advise you all to avail yourselves of this. Following the good example of Professor Charcot, of Paris, and Dr Byrom Bramwell, of Edinburgh, in their Studies in Clinical Medicine, recently published, I intend to place in your hands " Surgical Notes;" and although I cannot attempt to go into the detail at present which the two distinguished Physicians I have mentioned have done, I hope that you may find it of service in the future to be able to refer to these Notes. INJUEY TO HAND. Man, aged forty; right hand pierced by a nail ten days ago. The hand is red, swollen, and painful, and the fingers flexed.7 ACUTE OBGHITIS. There is inflammation of the fascia in the palm, which must be incised, the fingers extended; corrosive sublimate lotion, 1 to 2000, applied to the wound with Gamgee's tissue wrung out of hot water placed round hand and fingers, with dry tissue above, and the hand placed on a splint. This was done by a student, and the man expressed himself as relieved. The patient will return in two days, and the dressing will be changed. When a rusty nail, or indeed any foreign body, makes a wound, the first treatment should be, thorough cleansing of the wound (enlarging it first if necessary) by an antiseptic lotion, then the application of an antiseptic dressing, and last, but not least, the placing of the part injured at rest. Eest is the best anti- septic, the best surgical dressing you have; without it, so called antiseptics are of little avail. Always ask yourself the ques- tion. How shall I put this injured part at rest ? You will see many illustrations here, more especially in injuries to joints, of the great value of rest, and of the serious consequences of the want of it. ACUTE ORCHITIS. Man, aged sixty-five : swollen testicle of three days' duration. It is red, painful, and tender, with no impulse on coughing, and patient states that he has used the catheter for a year, owing to difficulty in making his water—due to enlarged prostate, a very frequent occurrence at his time of life. It is by no means uncommon to find orcliitis resulting from the passage of a catheter, and this should be remembered. Gonorrhoea, or an injury, are the more frequent causes, as you will have occasion to see. The treatment consists in the patient keeping in bed, and each night applying hot fomenta- tions over the swelling—a tablespoonful of laudanum added to the boiling water used to make the fomentation soothe the pain. In the morning, paint the swelling with flexible collodion. Order8 SURGICAL NOTES. a tablespoonful of Epsom salts in half a tumblerful of hot water, to be drunk every second or third morning. In forty-eight hours, if the swelling and pain are unrelieved, you must incise the testicle, which will relieve the tension, and very rapidly the swelling will disappear. Sometimes orchitis, in weakly people, is very acute, and where they have been drinking too freely, the tissues may show a tendency to sloughing, and then you must incise early. Mr Henry Smith used to advise puncturing in all cases of orchitis. This treatment gives marked relief to swelling and pain, but seems best suited for severe cases. SCALP WOUND. Man, aged thirty, with scalp wound, from a blow with the tongs two nights ago. A bruised irregular wound exists on the top of the head. First examine with the finger as to the state of the bone. No evidence of any fracture. When you can use your finger, it gives more information than a probe, and will do less harm. Shave the hair for half an inch round the edges of the wound, thoroughly cleanse the parts with antiseptic lotion. Wliere the wound is ragged and recent, pare the edges before stitching, and do so carefully; if not recent, the wound is best unstitched. Apply carefully antiseptic dressing, and, when possible, keep the patient at rest for three days, until all danger of any u-ritation is gone. Injuries to scalp are very liable to become affected with erysipelas, so be specially careful in your dressings of them. The dressing generally used in the Dispensary, is a pad of wood- wool wadding, with a piece of Gamgee's tissue above it. You may dust a little iodoform over the part first, to secure greater dryness of the wound, along with increased antiseptic protec- tion. When you have seen the wound shortly after infliction, and thoroughly carried out the above di'essing, you should not change it for a week, unless there is pain or fever. At the endPERIOSTITIS. 9 of the week, remove the stitches, and, if necessary, apply the dressings for a few days longer. If suppuration should take place, it is often serious, as in the scalp it spreads very quickly, and this you must watch, making incisions to allow free exit to the pus. Such a case would either require to be attended to in the patient's own house, or brought into the Infirmary. PEEIOSTITIS. Boy, aged nine, with pain and swelling over the front of the tibia, the result of falling from a car nine months ago. He states, that it has improved once or twice after resting in bed, but has never been quite well, and yet never sufficiently sore to make his parents bring him to the Infirmary. On examination, it was evident that he was suffering from chronic periostitis, with a subacute attack superadded to it; distinct heat felt on placing the hand over the bone, with tenderness on pressure. He was advised to come into the Infirmary, where he would have rest and proper treatment. In young people, periostitis is very common, from injuries, such as a blow from a cricket ball, on a delicate boy, or a fall, as in the above case, or after serious illness, such as typhoid or scarlet fever. . Generally it is very acute, and you will require to make free antiseptic incisions to check the inflammation. Let the patient's friends clearly under- stand, that it is absolutely essential to do this to save the child's leg, and that you don't do it because there is matter in the leg, bat to prevent the inflammation destroying the bone. Many people think, that they and their friends should not be lanced until the place is ripe or full of matter. In subacute chronic periostitis, the urgency is less, and it may subside without incisions, warm poulticing and small fly blisters, more especially in the rheumatic and specific forms, being of great benefit. Iodide of potassium internally is also useful.10 SURGICAL NOTES. SYPHILITIC ULCERATION OF THE PALATE. Man, aged twenty-six, with an irregular ulcer on the hard palate. Distinct history of syphilis. The thermo-cautery was applied around ulcer, and he was ordered green iodide of mercury internally, \ gr. thrice daily. If this form of mercury causes diarrhoea, the addition of \ gr. of opium will prevent it, or ^ gr. of arseniate of iron. Ulceration of the hard or soft palate is nearly always, when not cancerous, due to syphilis, which is very rapid in its progress, differing from lupus, which is very chronic, and the ulceration very slow. Lupus gives little pain, whereas syphilis gives much pain. In children you have frequently ulceration of the soft palate, the result of inherited syphilis, and the administration of mer- cury generally produces a rapid cure. You will find some instructive examples of these cases in Mr Hutchinson's work on Syphilis; indeed, I would advise you all to be possessed of that book, as it is full of experience and wise counsel. This patient returned from time to time. The cautery was applied, portions of bone were removed, and gradually the palate healed; when it is quite firm, a false vulcanite palate will be used, to enable him to masticate his food, and prevent portions going into his nose, as also to improve his speaking. CATAREH OF THE BLADDEE. Man, aged forty-five. States that he has to pass water every hour, and has on several occasions passed blood. No pain at point of the penis, no history of renal colic. The water shows considerable sedunent of what appear to be mucus and pus; there is a history of exposure to cold and shivering two months ago. All this points to a catari'h or cold in the bladder, and it is not likely that any calculus will be present here, although ICATARRH OF THE BLADDER. 11 would advise every case of persistent catarrh of the bladder to be examined by the sound, as you not only discover whether the bladder contains a stone, but you get some impression as to the sensitiveness of the viscus. I have seen several cases where no sounding had been practised for months, and where a large stone was eventually detected and removed. Keep the above in remembrance, not only in adults, but also in children. Student passed the sound, and no stone was detected, but the bladder was sensitive, and the patient complamed of pain when slight pressure was made on the mucous membrane, and the bladder grasped the sound. He was advised to take a hot sitz bath at bedtime for fifteen minutes, after which to use a one grain of opium suppository \ to live on milk, soups, barley water, fish, rabbits, and tripe, with plenty cold water to drink, no stimulants to be taken, and to bring a sample of his water in a week. He was also ordered a mixture with liquor potasssse, tinct. hyoscyamus, and infusion of buchu, which may be varied with infusion of urse ursi, &c. The above will dilute his water, soothe the bladder, and relieve him from much of his discomfort. When he returns, he may be ordered to wash out his bladder daily, and the simplest plan to teach him is by either Sir Henry Thompson's washing bottle, along with a Coud^ catheter, or by a syphon from a tin vessel placed above his head, and attached to a double catheter. The injection must be warm, and previous to using it the bladder must be emptied, and the solution used slowly, and only two ounces to be injected at once. The injecting of fluid into the bladder is so important, that I give you Sir Henry Thompson's own words: " You have a flexible catheter in the bladder; have ready a four-ounce india-rubber bottle with a brass nozzle and stopcock,—the nozzle long and tapering to fit a catheter of any size, from Nos. 5 to 10—filled with warm water, say at 100° Fahr. Attach the nozzle gently to the catheter, and throw m slowly a fourth of the contents; let that run out, the fluid will be thick and dirty no doubt; then injectSURGICAL NOTES. 12 another fourth, which will be less so; again another, which will return clearer than the preceding, and the fourth portion will come away nearly clear." In chronic catarrh of the bladder, more especially in elderly patients, the bladder must be as thoroughly emptied twice a day as is possible, for the residual urine keeps up the catarrh, and in many cases medicated solutions are of great benefit, but they must be very weak. The best—acetate of lead, one grain to four ounces of warm water; nitrate of silver, one grain to four ounces; carbolic acid, one grain to four ounces. Boro-glyceride (Barff's) is very soothing, a teaspoonful in a pint of warm water. When the urine is very offensive, you will find the following useful:—iodoform, two parts; mucilage, four parts ; glycerine, two parts; water, twenty parts. Dr Berkeley Hill recommends two teaspoonfuls of this to be injected into the bladder, after it has been thoroughly washed out. In trusting patients to draw off their own water, you will find that they will manage a Coude catheter very easily, and they cannot hurt themselves with it in the way in which they could with a silver one. STRUMOUS GLANDS. Girl, with glandular swellings on the right side of the neck, with openings at different points in her neck. States that she had been ill for a year, and has applied various ointments and lotions, and has taken cod liver oil and iron, but without their healing. Student exammed and found the probe passed below undermined skin and into the substance of the glands. She should be advised to have chloroform next day, and have the glands scraped, the sinuses incised, and the loose unhealthy skin removed. Student directed to have ready knife, director, scissors, spoon scrapers, artery forceps, ligatures, and sponges, iodoform lotion, and absorbent wadding dressings. The girl was told not to take anything after breakfast, and to return to the Dispen-STRUMOUS GLANDS 13 sary the next day to have chloroform, and the gland sores would be put right. The girl returned, had chloroform, the operation was performed, and in a week the neck looked healthy, and in another week was healed; the dressing used being iodoform with sal-alembroth gauze for the first week, an ointment with ten grains of boracic acid to the ounce of vaseline being used during the second week. The condition above described is one which very frequently occurs in ordinary practice, and you will find the treatment which you have repeatedly seen carried out generally successful. When you see enlarged glands in the early stage, before sup- puration has taken place, you must first consider whether anything local is causing the swelling. In the neck, never omit to examine the teeth, as very frequently they cause much gland irritation'; if there is only a single gland enlarged, and it is threatening to suppurate, or if it has existed a long time, and is shewing no tendency to go away, it may be removed. Another method is to apply a fly blister, which hastens the formation of matter, which ought to be evacuated by a small opening and a drainage tube, the opening being made as much as possible out of sight. A natural fold in the skin conceals a cicatrix. A piece of silver wire, as a drain, is often sufficient where the suppura- tion is not severe, and the mark left is very slight. Syrup of the muriate of lime, syrup of the iodide of iron, biniodide of mercury, and cod liver oil, are all valuable in improving the general strength. HEENIA IN CHILDEEK Child, aged two months, with swelling in the scrotum. Mother states that it disappears when the child lies down, and reappears when the child cries. Sometimes it does not disappear at once, but with a little pressure it does so. Student examined it, and as he did so, the swelling was reduced with a gurgle, which isSURGICAL NOTES. 14 regarded as typical of a hernia. In reducing a swelling of this kind, steady the upper part with the one hand gently, and com- press the swelling itself with the other hand steadily and gradually upwards and outwards, and as a rule there is not much difficulty in reducing it. If there should be, give chloro- form, which relaxes everything and aids the reduction. The swelling might have been a hydrocele, which you would distinguish by its translucency, hold it opposite the daylight or a candle, and you see the light shining through. You sometimes have a hydrocele along with a hernia, so that after reducing the latter, keep in remembrance that all swelling may not disappear. In children, a reducible hydrocele sometimes exists, owing to the communication between the peritoneum and tunica vaginalis re- maining open. The simplest treatment in children among poor people, is that by a skein of worsted, which is so arranged that the two ends looped around the child constitute the pad of a truss to keep the hernia in place. The manner of application was then shewn, and the mother directed to use two skeins of worsted, one during the day and the other at night. When parents can afford it, an ordinary truss of metal covered with leather, and carefully fitted by an instrument maker, is used. It is best when the patient can be seen by the man or woman who fits the truss, but sometimes that is not possible, and you will require to measure the child, and fit a proper truss to your patient. Take, therefore, a lesson in putting on a truss. Mr Hilliard, of this city, will gladly show any of you the important points to attend to. Direct the mother to carefully wash the child, to use a special truss in the bath, and to dust oxide of zinc powder on the place where the pad of the truss is applied. How long should a child wear the truss ? The time varies in each case, generally at least a year, but often for two, according to the size of the hernia, strength of the child, and carefulness of the mother. It must be removed gradually, and reapplied if there is the least tendency to protrusion.15 ENLARGED PROSTATE. Sometimes an ordinary truss is not sufficient to keep the hernia up, and it becomes necessary to perform one of the many operations devised for this deformity. This should not be too long delayed, for the opening in the abdomen increases in size if the hernia is not attended to. Umbilical herniae occur very frequently in private practice. They are generally of small size, but sometimes in weakly children are as big as a bantam's egg. The simplest treatment is a pad over the protrusion, kept in position by Leslie's tape plaster. A halfcrown stitched into chamois leather, and applied to the umbilicus with six inches of plaster, has given me better results than any other truss. It must be a halfcrown, or a flat thin piece of cork; a penny causes irritation at once, and this irritation led on one occasion to my discovering, that my order as to the pad being a halfcrown had been neglected. In very small umbilical herniee, Professor Lund's plan with two slips of plaster is useful. Draw the umbilical opening close, and apply one slip horizontally and another vertically, and this will very soon obliterate the protrusion. In order to prevent the occurrence of umbilical hernia, the cord should be tied carefully, and, after it separates, a firm pad of lint should be kept over it to ensure proper puckering of the structures, and a firm navel as a result. ENLARGED PEOSTATE. Man, aged sixty-three ; complains of difficulty and frequency in making his water. He thinks he has a good deal to make, and has urgent desire to get it made, but it is long of coming away, and he only passes a small quantity; in another hour he is as distressed as he was, and only passes a very little. During the night he has frequently to get up, and consequently this con- tinued irritation is wearing him out. He has not passed anySURGICAt NOTES. 16 blood; nor has he any pain at the point of his penis, although he complains of pain previous to passing water. You suspect that he has an enlarged prostate, and does not empty his bladder. In order to determine what is wrong, you select a No. 12 Coudd catheter, and with the patient lying down, pass the catheter gently along the canal, withdrawing it a little if there is any obstruction, gradually it will pass into the bladder. Student did this, and found that the bladder contained 12 oz. of urine. The man was instructed how to pass the catheter himself, and told to do so night and morning, receiving also careful instructions as to the proper cleaning of the instrument, and also a prescription for carbolic oil, to anoint it with previous to introduction. It is most important to avoid leading to putrescent urine by the catheter. This man has enlarged prostate, as was found by the student who examined it by the rectum, and he will probably require to pass the catheter at least once a day for the rest of his life. In addition, he must attend to his bowels, by means of simple medicine, such as confection of senna or sulphur, simple Epsom or Carlsbad salts. His diet should be light, with milk in abundance, and little stimulant. When the symptoms are not so pronounced as in this old man, you will find benefit from regulating your patient's diet, and where it is possible, the amount of work he does, and giving him abundance of liquids to dilute his water. The symptoms are often due to a gouty con- dition of the blood, which in elderly people is relieved by the above dietetic method, with attention to the bowels. Citrate of lithia with ergot is often useful, as also liq. potassae, tmct. hyoscyamus, and buchu infusion, the same as you have fre- quently seen ordered in cystitis. Avoid commencing the use of the catheter until you are satisfied that it is absolutely essential and never omit particular directions as to washing the catheter before and after use in some antiseptic, and anointing with carbolic oil. Some surgeons advise keepmg the instrument in a glass tube with antiseptic liquid. The operation of prostatectomy in severe cases is advised.