KING’S College LONDON Library 'in 4 d<^ \W !<C0M) i\dW‘ 200825119 KING S COLLEGE LONDONKING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL MEDICAL SCHOOL,THE £ SURGICAL WORKS O? JOHN ABERNETHY, F.B.& c ,;0SPH - m(VS 00'-^^“ $c- $c- T.O V,- a mein IBtritiott, h/ Y>- '\ I. —• -4<-S'*,-.a i. 1 \\> l{ H'R i ^ ■•••,' ''9 ■ -\ j * I „ , "SZeif* /v*/ VOLUME THE THIRD, AN HUNTfS S,™oF ^L[F E ^ B PR-['jij^^ ^^^AL^TY OF ME, “ssssssar "■ PHYSfOLOGFCAL LECTURES- DEr IvZZ‘°NS UESPECTfNG DEBASES. LEGE OF SURGEONS OF LONDON^N T,^’R°YAL «*. THE royal COLLEGE O^URG^ BEFORE LONDON: PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, PATERNOSTER-ROW, OUME, AND BROWN* 1819,KC5M0 HO 30, */V.K/LRr I- WD ^ARLR^ Aktunm^SirKt, Z.7*dmAN ENQUIRY ✓ •» INTO THE PROBABILITY AND RATIONALITY OF Mr. HUNTER’S THEORY OF LIFE; BEING THE SUBJECT OF THE FIRST TWO ANATOMICAL LECTURES DELIVERED BEFORE THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF LONDON. IN THE YEAR 1814. By JOHN ABERNETHY, F.R.S. &c. A NEW EDITION. LONDON: PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROWN, PATERNOSTER-ROW. 1818.. » , -INTRODUCTORY LECTURES, EXHIBITING SOME OF MR. HUNTER'S OPINIONS RESPECTING Etfe anti Bfeeascsi, delivered before the royal college of surgeons, LONDON, IN 1814 AND 1815. BY JOHN ABERNETHY, F. R. S. professor of anatomy and surgery to the college. NEW EDITION. ftonbon: printed for longm AN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROWN, PATERNOSTER-ROW. 1819.. •vTO THE TRUSTEES OF THE HUNTERIAN COLLECTION, THESE INTRODUCTORY LECTURES EXHIBITING AN IMPERFECT SKETCH OF THE CHARACTER AND SOME OF THE OPINIONS OF MR. JOHN HUNTER, ARE RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED BY THEIR OBEDIENT SERVANT, THE AUTHOR.' •: , . «>_■ ■ - _INTRODUCTORY LECTURES IN THE YEAR 1814. LECTURE I. In succeeding Sir William Rlizard in the honorable office of Professor of Anatomy and Surgery, I think it right to inform my audience that he was my earliest in- structor in these sciences ; and that I am greatly indebted to him for much and most valuable information respecting them. My warmest thanks are also due to him for the interest he excited in my mind to- wards these studies, and for the excellent advice he gave me, in common with other students, to direct me in the attainment ol knowledge. “ Let y°ur search after truth,” he would say, “ be eager and constant. Be BLECTURE I. % wary in admitting propositions to be facts before you have submitted them to the strictest examination. If, after this, you believe them to be true, never disregard or forget any one of them, however, un- important it may at the time appear. Should you perceive truths to be im- portant, make them motives of action ; let them serve as springs to your con- duct.” “ Many persons,” he remarked, “ acknow- ledge truth with apathy; they assent to it, but it produces no further effect on their minds. Truths, however, are of im- portance, in proportion as they admit of inferences which ought to have an in- fluence on our conduct; and if we neglect to draw those inferences, or to act in conformity to them, we fail in esential duties.” Our preceptor further contrived by various means to excite a degree of enthusiasm in the minds of his pupils. He displayed to us the beau ideal of the medical3 LECTURE I. b 2 character : — I cannot readily tell you how splendid and brilliant he made it appear; — and then, he cautioned us never to tarnish its lustre by any disingenuous conduct, by any thing that wore even the semblance of dishonour. He caused the sentiment of the philanthropic Chremes, in the Heautontimorumenos of Terence, to be inscribed on the walls of the hospital-sur- gery, that students should have constantly before them an admonition to humanity, drawn from a reflection on their own wants : Homo sum; humani nihil a me alienum puto. I could with pleasure enlarge on this theme, but I check myself, because 1 am aware that what I am now saying may rather annoy than gratify the feelings of my preceptor. What I have stated, how- ever, is a tribute due from me to him; and I pay it on the present occasion, in hopes that the same precepts and motives may have the same effect on the minds of the junior part of my audience, as they4 LECTURE I. were accustomed in general to have upon the pupils of Sir William Blizard. t That which most dignifies man, is the cultivation of those intellectual faculties which distinguish him from the brute creation. We should indeed seek truth ; feel its importance; and act as the dic- tates of reason direct. By exercising the powers of our minds in the attainment of -medical knowledge, we learn and may improve a science of the greatest public utility. We have need of enthusiasm, or of some strong incentive, to induce us to spend our nights in study, and our days in the disgusting and health-destroy- ing avocations of the dissecting-room ; or in that careful and distressing observation of human diseases and infirmities, which alone can enable us to understand, alle- viate, or remove them : for upon no other terms can we be considered as real students of our profession. We have need of some powerful inducement, exclusively of the expectation of fame or emolument:LECTURE I. b 3 o for unfortunately a man may attain a consi- derable share of public reputation and prac- tice without undertaking the labours I have mentioned, without being a real student of his profession. I place before you the most animating incentive I know of to la- boui tiuly to acquire professional know- ledge. 1 ou will by such conduct possess yourselves of the enviable power of being extensively useful to your fellow-creatures, in a way the most necessary to their wants, and most interesting to their feelings. You will be enabled to confer that which sick kings would fondly purchase with their dia- dems ; that which wealth cannot command, nor state nor rank bestow. You will be able to alleviate or remove disease, the most insupportable of human afflictions, and thereby give health, the most invaluable of human blessings. I shall, not however, gentlemen, waste your time in expatiating on this topic, be- cause you will feel much more than I can utter, and because all that can be said or “ought of if> seems concentrated in oneLJECTURE T. 6 brief but enthusiastic sentence of Cicero, which therefore X quote. In nulla re, pro- pius ad deos homines accedunt, quam sa- lutem hominibus dando. In occupying the situation of the last gentleman who taught in this place, Sir Everard Home, who has pursued the path of science which Mr. Hunter pointed out, with a considerable talent for observation, and with a degree of zeal and industry, scarcely to be expected from one whose time and attention have been otherwise so much engaged ; I also, equally with him, feel interested in impressing on the minds of my audience, the advantages we have derived from the labours of Mr. Hunter, and from pursuing that mode of study and enquiry which he adopted, and inculcated : and I am desirous on the present occasion, to engage your attention in the considera- tion of the probability and rationality of his theory of life.LECTURE I. 7 B 4 I he term theory, in philosophical lan- guage, like hypothesis, denotes the most plausible and rational mode of accounting for certain phenomena, the causes of which have not been fully developed. In apply- ing these terms to medical and physiologi- cal subjects, I may be allowed to define what I think they designate, and what I intend to convey by them. By the word theory I mean a rational explanation of the cause or connexion of an apparently full or sufficient series of facts: by hypothesis, a rational conjecture concerning subjects in which the series of facts is obviously incom- plete. The formation of an hypothesis excites us to enquiries, which may either confirm or confute our conjectures; and which may. by enabling us to discover the deficient facts, convert our hypothesis into a theory. Believing the facts collected by the ingenui ty and industry of Mr. Hunter, to be suffi- cient to establish his opinions respecting ife, I have therefore called them a theory.8 LECTURE I. There was a time when medical menen- tertained so determined a dislike to the word theory, that they could scarcely to- lerate the term. If any such remain, I would beg them to reflect that hypothesis and theory are the natural and inevitable result of thinking ; so that if they refuse to allow of any theory, they must prohibit all thought. The antipathy which some have enter- tained to the term theory, has arisen from its misapplication. For opinions drawn from very partial views of subjects, sometimes having no foundation on facts ; opinions formed by processes of mind, similar to those which occur in dreaming, when law- less imagination produces combinations and associations without any reference to reali- ties ; opinions, as unlike what I should un- derstand by theory as darkness is to light, have nevertheless been often proposed as theories and so denominated. That such foolish speculations, such waking dreams, will mislead and deceive us, cannot be doubted ; and hence has arisen the preju-9 LECTURE I. dice which some have entertained against the term. k \ The greatest philosophers were through the whole course of their enquiries and de- monstrations, theorists. Theorizing, ac- cording to my conception of the word, means nothing more than thinking correct- ly, in a concatenated manner, and in con- formity to rules which I shall presently have occasion to notice. It is scarcely necessary for me to assert that this kind of thinking is ufeeful, and promotive of Science. For was it not thinking in this manner on the cause of an apple falling from a tree, that led Sir Isaac Newton to ascertain the laws of attrac- tion ? Was it not thinking thus which led him to perceive that the operation of the same causes might perpetuate the regular motions of the planetary system ? Why do we note facts with accuracy, or collect them with diligence ? why do we interrogate na- ture by experiment ? Is it not because we wish to prove some of our own opinions to be true, or the opposing opinions of others to be false ? or, because we wish to enlargeLECTURE 1. 10 the boundaries of science in a direction in which we think they admit of extension ? What induces one person to prohibit ano- ther from theorizing ? Is it not because he has himself attempted it in vain, and there- fore deems the attempt unavailing ? Feelings and opinions are the chief sources of all our intellectual conduct: we ought therefore to cultivate good and ho- norable feelings, and to scrutinize opinions, with a view to entertain none but those that appear correct ; and such an exami- nation, to which I now invite you, must be allowed to be a proper exercise of in- tellect. Since thinking is inevitable, our chief enquiry should be how we ought to think or theorize ; and on this point Newton himself has condescended to instruct us. Our theories, hypotheses, or opinions, for to me all these words seem to refer to one and the same act of the mind — should be verifiable or probable, and should rationally account for all the known phaenomena ofLECTURE I. 11 the subject the)' pretend to explain ; under which circumstances it is allowable to main- tain them as good, until others more satis- factory be discovered. No man who thus theorizes need feel shame in this employ- ment of his intellectual powers ; no man can feel arrogance, for it is acknowledged that his theory is but a probable and ra- tional conjecture. Besides, we never can be sure, that the series of facts belonging to any subject is full or complete ; new ones may be discovered, that would over- turn our best established theories. Upon the foregoing terms alone do I wish to uphold Mr. Hunter’s theory of life ; and I do so on the present occasion, be- cause it seems highly probable, it was his thinking in the manner he was known to do, that caused him to survey all the facts con- nected with the subject of life in general with so much accuracy, as well as to note its disoideied states and sympathies in a mannei which has so greatly contributed to increase our practical knowledge. It is highly probable that it was his hypothesis12 LECTURE I. respecting life which incited him to enqui- ries by which he has been able to supply the deficient facts, so as to establish his conjectures, or convert his hypothesis into a theory. Mr. Huntei1 seems to have put us into a right path, and every step we take our prospects become more enlarged and dis- tinct, and we evidently approximate to the ultimate object which we have in view. Whoever duly reflects on the extent of human knowledge and power, cannot but feel an interest in anatomical enquiries ; since he must perceive that it is by means of the organization ol the body, the mind acquires all its information, and executes all its purposes. When, however, we en- gage in anatomical enquiries, we find so great a diversity of structure in the different parts of the body ; so great a variety of expedients for effecting certain purposes, all so simple in their nature, yet so ade-13 LECTURE I. quate to their intended design, that ana- tomy becomes highly interesting from the curiosity it excites, the knowledge it im- parts, and the food for meditation it af- fords. When also in the prosecution of our anatomical enquiries, we as it were analyze the body, or reduce it to its elementary parts : when we find that every organ, and every portion of it is composed of a few and simple vessels, a few and simple fibres ; that by these it is originally formed, kept in constant repair, endowed with anima- tion, sensation, and motion ; we become lost in astonishment that such important ends can be effected by apparently such simple means. / On reflecting how I might best accom- plish the duty which devolves to me, of giving anatomical lectures in a place by no means suited to anatomical demonstrations, 1 thought I could not do better than speak of the structure and f unctions of these ele- mentary component ^arts of the body: V *14 lecture I. since by this method I should be led to describe their natural and healthy struc- ture and functions, which would be a pro- per introduction to the subsequent discus- sions I have to engage in, relative to the nature and treatment of disorder and dis- ease. As it does not seem material which subject I consider first, I shall begin with the fibres, the only visible means by which motion and sensation are produced ; for this will lead directly to the consideration of Mr. Hunter’s Theory of Life. In surveying the great chain of living beings, we find life connected with a vast variety of organization, yet exercising the same functions in each; a circumstance from which we may I think naturally con- clude, that life does not depend on organ- ization. Mr. Hunter, who so patiently and accurately examined the different links of this great chain, which seems to connect even man with the common matter of the universe, was of this opinion. In speak-LECTURE I. 15 ing of the properties of life, he says, “ it is something that prevents the chemical de- composition, to which dead animal and vegetable matter is so prone ; that regulates the temperature of the bodies it inhabits, and is the cause of the actions we observe in them.” All these circumstances, though deduced from an extensive contemplation of the subject, may, however, be legiti- mately drawn from observations made on the egg. A living egg does not putrify under circumstances that would rapidly cause that change in a dead one. The former resists a degree of cold that would freeze the latter. And when subjected to the genial warmth of incubation, the matter of it begins to move or to be moved so as to build up the curious structure of the young animal. The formation of the embryon in galli- naceous ova was particularly attended to by Mr. Hunter ; and he was of opinion, ( ons betoan in various places in the cicatricula so as simultaneously to form parts of the embryon and its appendages. 416 LECTURE I. lhe opinions ol Mr. Hunter deserve at least to be respectfully and attentively con- sidered. That he was a man of genius, according to the beautiful definition of that quality given by Dr. Johnson: that he possessed the power of mind that collects, combines, amplifies and animates, the energy without which judgment is cold, and knowledge is inert; cannot I think be doubted by any one who has carefully considered his writings. That he was a man of uncommon industry, by which he collected abundance of facts, will be ad- mitted by every one who has even beheld his museum. That he was a man of con- stant and deep reflection, is to me equally apparent. Many persons have genius without industry ; others industry without genius ; and many who possess both are still defi- cient in judgment. I here beg permission to explain the notions I entertain of that act of the mind by which we form our inferences, opinions,17 LECTURE I. or judgments. I shall by this means at once unfold what it is that, in my estima- tion, gives currency and value to the opi- nions of any individual, and entitles them to the attention of others. The human mind has the power of holding as it were, in review, a series of facts or propositions, and steadily contemplating them so as to arrange, assort, or compare them till we form some deduction respecting them. This power seems to belong exclusively to man, and is the basis of his reason- ing faculty. That mind is the strongest which can contemplate the greatest number of facts or propositions with accuracy• ancl his judgments are generally the most cor- rect, who omits to review none of the facts belonging to the subject under his con- sideration. It was this power of mind that so eminently distinguished Newton from other men. It was this power that en- abled him to arrange the whole of a treatise m his thoughts, before he com- mitted a single idea to paper. In the exercise of this power, he was known occasionally to have passed a night or18 LECTURE I. day entirely inattentive to surrounding objects. That Mr. Hunter was also a man of con- stant and deep reflection, that he possessed this enviable power of mind, so essential to the perfection of the intellectual charac- ter, is to me sufficiently apparent; for I know of no opinion of his that was lightly or loosely formed, or that was not logically and cautiously deduced from the facts be- fore him: and though from the subsequent increase of knowledge, the validity of some of his opinions may now be doubted, yet most of them have from the same cause become more firmly established. With all his genius,' knowledge, and reflection, Mr. Hunter was not, however, a brilliant cha- racter amongst us. He had not the happy talent of displaying the stores of his mind, nor of communicating to others the same perception of the importance of his facts and opinions as he himself entertained. Perhaps it may have arisen from my at- tending more to his facts and opinions than to his mode of explaining them, that 1 ha\ c19 LECTURE I. c 2 been led to form so high an estimate of his intellectual powers. I can draw no other inferences from the facts than those which he has drawn, and therefore am I a convert to his opinions. 1 proceed now to consider the structure and functions of those fibres which con- stitute the muscles, in order to introduce the discussion of the probability and ration- alit\ of Mr. Hunter’s Theory as a cause of irritability. Muscular fibres are soft and readily lacerable in the dead body, and even during life, when they are in a state of in- action. They are composed of that inso- luble substance which we meet with in the blood, and which, from its disposition to concrete in a fibrous form, is called the fibrous part of that fluid. The threads and flakes of common cellular substance, which connect the muscular fibres, and every where pervade the structure of a muscle, may be removed by boiling, and then the muscular fibres may be separated, till they become too minute to admit of further se- paration, and almost elude our unassistedLECTURE I. 20 sight. Yet there are some who assert, that by the aid of powerful lenses, each fibre, though slender as the threads of flimsy gossamer, appears but as a muscle in minia- ture, being composed of a number of smaller fibres. There are others who main- tain the contrary, and affirm that they can see the ultimate muscular fibres. It would seem to me a waste of time to detail to you the reports of various microscopical ob- servers, respecting the ultimate fibres of muscles, since there is so little concurrence or certainty in their descriptions. The opi- nion which such contradictory statements have impressed on my mind, is, that per- haps the ultimate arrangement of matter, like its ultimate particles, may form a sub- ject too subtile for human perception. Our information in these respects must be li- mited, as our powers of perception have their bounds. The imperfection of the human senses, docs not, however, seem a subject of regret; because it induces a greater necessity for the exertions of intel- lect; and many subjects appear far more demonstrable to reason than to sense.21 LECTURE I. Fontana, it must be granted, possessed considerable talent in microscopical obser- vations, for he says, that he could readily distinguish the nature of any animal sub- stance, which might be placed on the field of his microscope, by regarding its ultimate fibres, and according to him the muscular fibres are much smaller than those of the nerves. Proscaska and others assert, that the ultimate muscular fibres are continued throughout the whole length of a muscle. How marvellous, (could we but see it,) would such a slender thread appear, con- tinued throughout the whole length of the human sartorius. Haller, however, affirms that the fibres are not continued, but that one set terminating another begins. Sus- pecting that Haller employed the solar mi- croscope on this occasion, as he says he had done on others, I examined muscular fibres with this instrument. Now though I place no confidence in my own ob- servation, and think the subject unimport- ant as to any conclusion that may be de- duced from it, yet I will tell you how a portion of a muscle appeared to me when c 3LECTURE L 00 magnified about 500 times. The fibres were slightly undulating, and one set ter- minating, another began : neither were the sets of fibres of considerable length. The muscular fibres were connected by cross threads of common cellular substance. Mr. Carlisle, in whose talents and ac- curacy we are all disposed to place con- fidence, in the Croonian Lecture, printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1805, says, that he can distinctly see an ultimate muscular fibre, which he describes “ as a solid cylinder, the covering of which is reticular membrane, and the contained part a pulpy substance irregularly granulated.” He has also described the termination of nerves in muscles. Muscles are liberally supplied both with blood vessels and nerves, but nothing pecu- liar is perceived in their distribution. We make them very red by injecting them, and we see numerous nerves entering their sub- stance at various places. Yet the vessels of some muscles are too minute to receive redLECTURE I. 23 c 4 blood or our coloured injections, so that redness though a common is not an essen- tial character of muscle. I here willingly relinquish the enquiry into the structure of those organs in which the irritable property chiefly resides, in order, in the next place, to speak of the principal phenomena of irritability. Muscles have the power of contracting with surprising celerity and force. It seems indeed wonderful that the biceps muscle of the arm, which in the dead state would be torn by the weight of a few ounces ap- pended to it, shall in the living state be capable of lifting and sustaining more than 100 lbs. The matter in the muscle seems neither to be increased nor diminished during its contraction, what is lost in length being gained in bulk. The volun- tary contraction of muscles cannot be long continued; they become weary and pain- ful, the contraction remits and recurs, causing a tremulous motion. Yet this phaenomenon does not seem to be theLECTURE I. 24 effect of’ absolute inability, in the irritable property, to continue in action, for some muscles continue to act without experien- cing fatigue. For instance, those of the jaws and back ; for whenever they relax the jaw drops, and the head and body fall for- wards, as we see in persons who are going to sleep in a sitting posture. Certain sphincter muscles likewise remain in action without experiencing fatigue. Some sphinc- ters also, I may add, are disposed to yield considerably without impatience; so that their irritability resembles that of those muscles which BicMt has considered as a distinct class, and subservient alone to what he calls the organic life. The contractile power of muscles is also capable of remain- ing in vehement action for a great length of time, as we see in some cases of cramps, and still more in some cases of tonic tetanus. Yet though the irritable power is not incapable of continued exertion, it seems evidently to be in general susceptible of fatigue, and inclines to be at rest. If we stimulate the muscles of a limb of a25 LECTURE I. frog severed from the body, by voltaic electricity, the muscular actions are at first vivid and forcible, but they grow fainter and feebler on repeated excitement. Yet if we wait a little till thev seem to regain their power, they become vivid and forci- ble as at first from the same degree of ex- © citement. Such actions may be excited at intervals for twenty-four hours, though with a gradual diminution in their power, after which, in general, they can be no longer excited, and then the muscles become per- manently and rigidly contracted. The foregoing facts appear to me to show the impropriety of the phrase, exhausted irri- tability, which is in common use to express our inability by the effort of our will to continue the actions of our voluntary mus- cles : it seems manifest that the irritability is not exhausted but fatigued. O The rigid contraction of the muscles after death, is the effect of irritability : it is its last act. A considerable force is re- quired to overcome this contraction, or to bend the rigid limbs of the dead body,LECTURE L 26 when it has recently taken place. The force required to effect this, gradually di- minishes till the muscles become quite pliant; and then, and not till then, does putrefaction ensue. Mr. Hunter has known this last vital contraction to occur in parts severed from the body sixty hours after their separation, upon the removal of causes which had im- peded the contraction before that period; a proof that life in a certain degree was still resident in the part. He observed that death produced by lightning, or large charges of electricity, or by certain kinds of injuries and diseases, prevented this con- traction, and even the coagulation of the blood; and that putrefaction would in such cases very rapidly take place. From facts of this kind, as well as from many others, he drew an inference, which has not I be- lieve been disputed, and therefore I need not enter into the discussion of it at length, that the principle of life may in some in- stances be suddenly removed, or have its27 LECTURE I. power abolished, whilst in general it is lost by degrees. The contraction of irritability takes place in some animals in a very slow and gradual manner, and their muscles in general are incapable of sudden contraction. Yet though the action of their muscles is very slow, it is very powerful and very perma- nent. The American sloth, supports its weight for a very long time in one attitude by fixing its claws into the branches of tiees; an act which would speedily weary muscles of an ordinary character. The muscles of the legs of birds that roost, seem to have a similar power of permanent contraction. Mi. Carlisle has lately demonstrated a peculiar distribution of the arteries in the limbs of these tardigrade animals, as they are called, and Doctor Macartney has shewn that a similar arrangement of vessels exists in the legs of fowls. Such a distribution of the arteries may be subservient with-28 LECTURE I. out being essential to these modes of ac- tion. In the human body we see instances of irritability exerting itself after the manner it does in general in tardigrade animals. If the iris had possessed the ordinary powers of muscles, and none else, it could not have remained, as it is known to do, permanently contracted in a strong light, and permanently dilated in a weak one. Indeed, an anatomist who is fond of tracing structure as connected with function, might readily persuade himself, that there is in the iris a distribution of arteries, similar to that which Mr. Carlisle has demonstrated in the limbs of sloths. We find, however, that sphincter muscles in general have the power of continuing their contraction, though no peculiar distribution of vessels is discoverable in them. In the gall blad- der, the function of which requires this slow but permanently acting irritability, in order to express its contents in small and equal quantities into the bowels, as the di- gested aliment passes into them, we discover29 LECTURE I. no peculiar arrangement of arteries. Though we cannot excite any sudden contraction of that bag, yet we know that it can gra- dually reduce itself into a very small com- pass. The skin has every where this slow but permanently acting, and gradually re- laxing irritability, the effects of which are most evident in lax and pendulous por- tions of it. Accordingly we sometimes ob- serve the scrotum and prepuce condensed into a suprizingly small and very compact mass. Thus have we even in the human body evidences of irritability acting in various modes, whilst we can equally perceive that in tardigrade animals some of their mus- cles act with celerity. In the Lori, of whose habits Vosmaer has given so interesting an account, and which manifested no signs of alacrity, save in eating the food that it liked, no stimulation nor injury could induce it to mend its pace, but it shewed its resent- ment of the attempt to make it perform impossibilities, by suddenly snapping at the stick or instrument with which it wasso LECTURE I. goaded; and thus again demonstrated that the muscles of its jaw were endowed with an irritability of the more common cha- racter. Having thus briefly described the prin- cipal phenomena of muscular action, for I forbear to notice others of less importance, I proceed to review the conjectures that have been formed as to the cause of these ' curious, sudden, and powerful contractions. Not to speak of exploded hypotheses, I trouble you only with those which are mo- dern. First, then, the contraction has been sup- posed to be the effect of some chemical change occurring in the part. This opinion is I think invalidated by the reiterated con- tractions which may be produced in the limbs of some animals when removed from the body, even during twenty-four hours, if excited by voltaic electricity, and conse- quently when no supply of materials can be supposed to exist within the limb, to produce such reiterated chemical changes.LECTURE I. 31 The opinion is still further refuted by ob- serving, that these vivacious contractions will equally take place, upon the same ex- citement, in the exhausted receiver of an air-pump and in the open air. They may also be excited under water, under oil, in a great variety of gases; in short, under cir- cumstances which exclude the presence of any chemical agent from without, to which such changes could reasonably be im: puted. Secondly. The contraction of irritabilf has been supposed to be a property of th muscular fibres. Properties are generally considered as permanent qualities. Thus, the property of gravitation is continually operating, equally when bodies remain at rest and when it produces motion in them, equally whilst I support this book in my hand, and when I suffer it to fall on the table. If, however, so curious an occa- sional property could belong to matter, we should naturally expect that it would be- long to some peculiar quality, or arrange- ment of matter. But irritability is con-32 LECTURE I. nected with matter of different qualities and arrangements. The flesh of animals and that of fish are different in quality; the pulpy medusae which float in the sea differ from vegetables ; yet all are irrit- able, or possess this power of occasional contraction. Though in general we find irritability connected with a fibrous struc- ture, yet, if we may trust our senses, it is not so in every instance. In the hydatid, where no such structure is apparent even with the aid of lenses, we still have evi- dence of the irritability of life. If also, as I strongly suspect, the muscular fibres be not continued from one end of the muscle to the other, irritability could not in that case be considered as a property belonging to them, since any breach of continuity would completely frustrate the contraction of the whole muscle. Thirdly, I proceed to enquire into Mr. Hunter’s opinion, that irritability is the ef- fect of some subtile, mobile, invisible sub- stance, superadded to the evident structure of muscles, or other forms of vegetable andLECTURE I. S3 animal matter, as magnetism is to iron, and as electricity is to various substances with which it may be connected. Mr. Hunter doubtless thought, and I believe most per- sons do think, that in magnetic and electric motions, a subtile invisible substance, of a very quickly and powerfully mobile nature, puts in motion other bodies which are evi- dent to the senses, and are of a nature more gross and inert. To be as convinced as I am of the probability of Mr. Hunter’s Theory as a cause of irritability, it is, I am aware, necessary to be as convinced as I am that electricity is what I have now suppos- ed it to be, and that it pervades all nature. To obtain this conviction it is necessary that the facts connected with this subject should be attentively considered; but for such an examination I have no time; nei- ther would it be considered as suitable to the general design of these lectures. Whatever notions philosophers may be pleased to form respecting matter in ge- neral, it does not appear to me that our physiological opinions can be affected by their decisions. Of the matter which for DLECTURE r. 34 the most part presents itself to our notice, and is cognizable by the eye and touch, we know that it has a property called by Sir Isaac Newton vis inertia, an indisposition to move unless impelled to motion, and a disposition to continue in motion unless re- tarded. There are some philosophers who think, that properties similar to those of the ag- gregate mass, likewise belong to every atom of which it is composed; whilst others, on the contrary, think, that the atoms have very different qualities, and that the vis inertia is the property only of the aggregate mass. The matter of animals and vegetables is, however, an aggregate mass ; it is as we ex- press it, common matter, it is inert; so that the necessity of supposing the superad- dition of some subtile and mobile substance is apparent. Taking it for granted that the opinions generally entertained concerning the cause of electrical motions are true, analogy would induce us to suppose, that similar motions might be produced, by similar35 LECTURE I. d 2 causes, in matter organized as it is found to be in the vegetable and animal systems. The phasnomena of electricity and of life correspond. Electricity may be attached to, or inhere, in a wire ; it may be sudden- ly dissipated, or have its powers annulled, or it may be removed by degrees or in por- tions, and the wire may remain less and less strongly electrified, in proportion as it is abstracted. So life inheres in vegetables and animals ; it may sometimes be sudden- ly dissipated, or have its powers abolished, though in general it is lost by degrees, with- out any apparent change taking place in the structure; and in either case putrefaction begins when life terminates. The motions of electricity are charac- terized by their celerity and force; so are the motions of irritability. The motions of electricity are vibratory; so likewise are those of irritability. When by long con- tinued exertion the power of muscles is fa- tigued, or when it is feeble, their vibratory or tremulous motions are manifest to com-LECTURE I. 36 mon observation, but the same kind of mo- tion may be perceived at all times by at- tention, as has been shewn by Doctor Wool- aston in the Croonian Lecture for the year 1810. It is then I think manifest, that Mr. Hunter’s conjectures are the most probable of any that have been offered as to the cause of irritability. My allotted time does not permit me at present to consider the other vital functions ; yet I relinquish the subject with reluctance, because I have been speaking only on that point in which it seems most difficult to persuade the incredulous, of the probabili- ty and rationality of Mr. Hunter’s Theory. When hereafter I shall have to speak of the other vital functions, I think it will appear that it is impossible to account for the phenomena in any other manner Jian that which Mr. Hunter has suggested. In ascending the difficult and lofty ladder of knowledge, men of great talent and in-LECTURE I. 37 dustry seem to have affixed to it certain resting places, on which, reposing for a time from their labours, they could tranquilly assemble their followers, and contemplate more extensive views of nature, and of na- ture’s laws, than had before been taken. If after having stood by the side of the great teacher Newton, and learned from him the properties of common and inanimate mat- ter, we afterwards attend to Mr. Hunter, our great instructor in the functions of liv- ing beings, he points out to us how matter, starting from the general mass, springs up into life in vegetation. We see vegetables as it were self formed and producing their own species. We observe them also exerting most of the powers which animals possess. That they have irritability is evident from the current ol their sap and their secretions ; nay, in some we observe those vivacious motions which seem chiefly to belong to animal hie, as is evident in. the Mimosa?, . the Dlonasa Muscipula, and Heydysarum gyians. We see them like animals having alternate seasons of action and re- pose ; and though in general vegetables like animals are in action during the day n 338 LECTURE I. and rest in the night, yet also some vegeta- bles like some animals rest in the day and are in action during the common season of repose. We see animals scarcely differing from vegetables in their functions, like them doomed to a stationary existence, with even less appearance of organization than we usually discover in vegetables, and of a structure so simple as to admit of propaga- tion like vegetables by cuttings. Yet in all the diversity of living beings we recog- nize certain processes peculiar and essential to life ; as the power of converting other kinds of matter into that appropriate to the individual it is to form and support; the power of distributing the nutriment, thus converted, to every part for its formation and supply ; the ventilation, as I may call it, of the nutritive fluids ; the power of pre- paring various dissimilar substances from the nutritive fluids; and the propagation of the species. As what is deemed the complexity ol animal life increases, we find distinct organs allotted for each of these functions; thus we have organs of diges-LECTURE I. S9 d 4 tion, circulation, respiration, secretion, and generation, which are various in their struc- O J ture in the different tribes of animals. In vegetables, and in some of the lower kinds of animals, no traces of nerves are discoverable. The nervous system begins- in a simple form, and seems to increase in complexity up to man. But this will make the subject of the next lecture. Mr. Hunter also shews us that there are animals, as for instance the torpedo and gymnotus, which have organs liberally supplied with nerves, forming an electric battery which they can charge at will. Such facts shew to what a degree electricity exists in these animals, and how greatly it is under the influence or control of the nervous system ; and they could not fail to make a strong impression on the contemplative and deeply meditating mind of Mr. Hunter. What then, may I ask, is the natural inference to be drawn from the examin- ation of this great chain of being, which seems to connect even man with the com-LECTURE I. 40 mon matter of the universe ? What but that which Mr. Hunter drew, that life must be something independent of organization, since it is able to execute the same func- tions with such diversified structure, and even in some instances with scarcely any appearance of organization at all. The experiments of Sir Humphrey Davy seem to me to form an important link in the connexion of our knowledge of dead and living matter. He has solved the great and long hidden mystery of che- mical attraction, by shewing that it de- pends upon the electric properties which the atoms of different species of matter possess. Nay, by giving to an alkali elec- tric properties which did not originally belong to it, he has been able to control the ordinary operations of nature, and to make potash pass through a strong acid, without any combination taking place. That electricity is something, I could never doubt, and therefore it follows as a consequence, in my opinion, that it must be every where connected withLECTURE I. 41 those atoms of matter, which form the masses that are cognizable to onr senses ; and that it enters into the composition of every thing inanimate or animate. If then it be'electricity that produces all the chemical changes, we so constantly ob- serve, in surrounding inanimate objects, analogy induces us to believe that it is electricity which also performs all the chemical operations in living bodies ; that the universal chemist resides in them, and exercises in some degree peculiar powers because it possesses a peculiar apparatus. Sir Humphrey Davy’s experiments also lead us to believe, that it is electricity, extricated and accumulated in wavs not clearly understood, which causes those sud- den and powerful motions in masses of inert matter, which we occasionally wit- ness with wonder and dismay; that it is electricity which causes the whirlwind, and the watei-spout, and which “ with its sharp and sulphurous bolt splits the unwedgeable and gnarled oak, and destroys our most stabile edifices ; that it is electricity whichLECTURE I. 42 by its consequences makes the firm earth tremble, and throws up subterraneous mat- ter from volcanos. When therefore we perceive in the uni- verse at large, a cause of rapid and power- ful motions of masses of inert matter, may we not naturally conclude that the inert molecules of vegetable and animal matter, may be made to move in a similar manner, by a similar cause ? It is not meant to be affirmed that elec- tricity is life. There are strong analogies between electricity and magnetism, and yet I do not know that any one has been hardy enough to assert their absolute identity. I only mean to prove, that Mr. Hunter’s Theory is verifiable, by showing that a subtile substance of a quickly and power- fully mobile nature, seems to pervade every thing, and appears to be the life of the world; and therefore it is probable that a similar substance pervades organized bodies, and produces similar effects in them. The experiments of Sir Id. Davy seem43 LECTURE I. to realize the speculations of philosophers, and to verify the deductions of reason, by demonstrating the existence of a subtile, active, vital principle, pervading all nature as has heretofore been surmised, and deno- minated the Anima Mundi. The opinions which in former times were a justifiable hypothesis, seem to me now to be converted into a rational theory. It is then, I think, manifest, that Mr. Hunter’s Theory of Life, presents us with the most probable solution of the pheno- mena of irritability, of any that has hitherto been proposed. The human mind has been the same at all periods of the world ; in all ages there have been men of a sceptical disposition, disin- clined to believe any thing that was not di- rectly an object of their senses. At all periods there have been other men of a con- templative, and perhaps more credulous character, who have been disposed to believe that there were invisible causes, operating to produce the alterations which are visible,LECTURE I. 44 and who from much less numerous facts have drawn the same inferences that I have done. And many of these, from Pytha- goras downwards, have expressed their sen- timents, though with some variety, yet pretty much to the same effect. The Greek philosophers recognized in man, the Yuyri, and N»ff, the body, vital principle, and mind, whilst some used words signifi- cant of intellect, to express the energizing principle in nature, without apparently having any clear ideas of intelligence. What was called the Anima Mundi, was however, by many considered as a distinct and active principle, and was not con- founded with intelligence of any kind. I know not how I can better exhibit to my audience the subject I am alluding to, or better acquaint them with the general te- nour and tendencies of these opinions, than by quoting that portion of these philoso- phical notions, which Virgil is said to have put into the mouth of Anchises: Spiritus intus alit, totamque infusa per artus Mens agitat raolem, et magno se corporc miscct.45 LECTURE I. And please to observe, gentlemen, it is Virgil says, it is Anchises speaks, that which I also this day have been saying ; — » Inde hominum pecudumque genus, vitaeque volantum Et quae marmoreo fert monstra sub aequore pontus.( 46 ) LECTURE II. I proceed to speak of the structure and functions of the nervous fibres. The nerves which we observe pervading the body, appear to be packets of very minute threads, seemingly distinct from each other. The nerves divide and sub- divide, and in so doing a certain number of threads separate from the original packet, and appear as a distinct nerve. It is, there- fore, possible to trace a minute nerve, up to its origin, from the toe or finger, by splitting it off from the various packets with which it has been conjoined. So far does anatomical fact con cur with the physiological opinion, that every nervous filament com- municates distinctly with the brain or some process of that organ. This apparent continuity is, however, 12LECTURE II. 47 lost, whenever we find those intumescences on nerves which are called ganglia, for in these there seems to be a mixture or con- solidation of the nervous matter. It is also lost wherever various nerves unite together, and form a plexus; in which case the nervous fibrils either coalesce, or become inextricably interwoven with one another. The nerve from which the thoracic and abdominal viscera are chiefly supplied, is beset with numerous ganglia and plexuses ; and as we cannot by our will influence the actions of those viscera, and as the iris, the motions of which are also involuntary, is supplied with nerves from a ganglion, it has been thought that ganglia, by intercepting the direct communications between the brain and the extreme branches of nerves, might render parts thus supplied less amen- able to the will, and less under the influ- ence of the general affections of the ner- vous system. It is also thought that gan- glia might serve the office of subsidiary48 LECTURE II. brains, each affording a separate source of nervous energy. On the other hand, it ought to be observ- ed, that all the vertebral nerves, supplying parts over which the will exerts the most peifeet control, have ganglia at their com- mencement ; and that the nerves of the leg and arm form a plexus near their origin. The actions of the cremaster muscle are involuntary ; yet I believe it is supplied by the same nerves, which supply muscles that are subject to voluntary actions ; therefore this opinion does not appear to me to be such as we should receive with entire confidence. Again, it is further apparent, that the functions of the abdominal and other viscera are greatly affected by disor- ders of the brain, and that the brain is greatly affected by disorders of these vis- cera. The ingenious and industrious French anatomist, Bichat, has classed the living functions into the organic and animal: the49 LECTURE II. distinction seems a natural and useful one, and throws light on the physiology of the visceral nerve. In vegetables, and in some of the lower kinds of animals, no traces of a nervous system are discoverable. In others of the lower order of animals, that have organs for the preparation and distri- bution of nutriment, they are supplied by a visceral nerve, which it is probable main- tains amongst those organs a concurrence of impressions and actions. In the ascend- ing complexity of the nervous system, we find a nervous chord more or less beset with ganglia, which supplies other parts of the body besides the viscera, and which probably serves to maintain amongst them likewise a concurrence of impressions and actions. We next find at one end of this chord a kind of ganglion, or brain, which gradually becomes larger and more complex as we trace the series of links upwards to man, in whom it bears a much larger pro- portion to the nervous system in general than in any other animal. The visceral nerve, in the ascending series of animals, appears connected with the animal nerves ; ELECTURE II. 50 \ and so numerous are these connections that this nerve has in the human subject obtain- ed the title of the great sympathetic nerve. The vital organs are required to carry on their functions with a degree of regularity and order, under the varying circumstances of life; and the possession of a distinct nerve may enable them to continue their functions without so materially participat- ing in the disturbances of the animal sys- tem, as they must otherwise have done: yet the numerous connections of the vis- ceral with the animal nerves must render both participators in each other’s disorders. The nerves then, may be said to proceed from the brain, medulla spinalis, and vis- ceral nerve, to all parts of the body for their supply. In thus expressing a fact, however, we should guard against an idea which the analogous distribution of arteries is apt to engender. Arteries become mi- nute in proportion as they send off branch- es, whilst on the contrary, the branches of nerves are often larger than the trunk from which they proceeded. It is no un- 1251 LECTURE II. e 2 frequent occurrence for mal-formed chil- dren to be born without a brain, yet with a perfect nervous system. The most rational idea, therefore, we can entertain on the present subject, is, that the nerves are formed in the parts where we find them, and that they are connected to those parts of the organs from which we are accus- tomed to say they proceed. Nerves are vascular, and we can inject them with sub- tile injections. The nerves then, proceeding from, or being connected with the brain, medulla spinalis, and visceral nerve, may be traced, ramifying throughout the body in the man- ner already mentioned, till they arrive at the part for the supply of which they are designed. They then split into numerous branches which communicate with each other, and again subdivide and rejoin, their communications appearing to multiply as they become more minute ; so that every part of the body has a kind of net work of nerves, in proportion to the susceptibility and sensibility it possesses.LECTURE II. 5% This general and imperfect sketch of the anatomy of the nervous system, re~ lates only to what may be discovered by our unassisted sight. If by means of the mi- croscope we endeavour to observe the ulti- mate nervous fibres, persons in general are as much at a loss as when by the same means they attempt to trace the ultimate muscular fibres. Those fibres which we can split off from a nervous packet, in the manner be- fore mentioned, though too minute to ad- mit of further subdivision, appear by the microscope to be themselves packets of smaller threads. It is generally asserted by microscopical observers, that the nerves and medullary matter of the brain and spi- nal marrow are the same, and are com- posed of very minute fibres. Fontana speaks confidently on this point ; and he further says, that he has seen these ner- vous fibres regenerated in the medium which has been formed to unite a divided nerve. He describes the nervous fibres in every part of the nervous system as cylin-LECTURE II. e 3 5$ drical, pursuing a slightly undulating course, and being in a considerable degree transpa- rent. He states also that they are larger than the ultimate fibres of muscles. Microscopical observers also tell us, that though the nervous fibrils in each packet appear distinct, and may be separated from each other in the manner already described, yet they have nevertheless transverse com- munications with each other. Each ner- vous fibre has been supposed to be covered by investing membranes similar to those of the brain ; but this opinion is founded on an analogy with what is observed in the optic nerve, rather than on actual obser- vation with respect to others. That they have investing membranes is clear, and we are told that we may dissolve the medullary or nervous matter by an alkali, and leave these investing membranes ; or on the other hand, that we may dissolve the in- vesting membranes by nitric acid, and leave the medullary fibres. Having thus spoken of the chief cir-LECTURE 1L 54 cumstances relating to the anatomy of the nervous system, I shall not dwell on this part of the subject, but hasten to the principal object of the lecture, to consider its Physiology, in order to examine how far Mr. Hunter’s Theory of Life, seems adequate to explain the phenomena of the nervous functions. First then, it is generally believed that all sensation is in. the brain, and that all volition proceeds from that organ. This proposition requiring to be impressed so as to produce conviction, for it is the founda- tion on which all our future reasoning is founded, I shall state the principal causes of this opinion. First, If the continuity of of a nerve be intercepted at any point be- tween that extremity which receives im- pressions from the objects of sense, and which therefore may be called the impres- sible or tangible extremity, and that which communicates with the brain, and is usually called its sensorial extremity, both feeling and volition by means of that nerve are suspended.55 LECTURE II. 2dly. If a certain degree of pressure be made upon the brain, both feeling and vo- luntary motion cease whilst it continues and return when it is removed. 3dly. As we have evidence that the perceptions and intellect of animals in- crease in proportion as the brain becomes larger and more complex, so we have reason to conclude that these faculties are connected with that part of the ner- vous system. 4thly. The conviction which we gene- rally though not constantly experience, that feeling exists in the part which receives impressions, is shewn to be deceptive by the following facts. If a nerve be irritated midway between the brain and its extre- mities, severe pain is supposed to be felt in those extremities j and if it supplies muscles, those muscles become convulsed. Thus when a disease forms about the hip joint, or in the loins, many persons have applied poultices to their knees, from a coviction that as the pain was felt in the e 4LECTURE II. 56 knee, it was the seat of the disorder. In like manner, persons who have had their limbs amputated, can scarcely believe that they are removed, because of the pain and other sensations they still seem to feel in them. In either of these cases, motions being excited in the middle of nerves, and transmitted to the brain, are attributed to a disordered state of those parts from which such motions have heretofore ori- ginated. If then it be admitted that sensation exists in the brain, and that volition pro- ceeds from that organ, it necessarily fol- lows that motions must be transmitted to and fro along the nervous chords, whenever they take place. It was formerly supposed that these chords were passive, and might be made mechanically to vibrate, but their want of elasticity and tension, and their pulpy origins and terminations, are circum- stances which render such a supposition inadmissible. Physiologists were there- fore led to conjecture that the nervous fibrils were tubular, and that they containedLECTURE II. 57 a subtile fluid, by means of which such motions were transmitted. Of the extensive knowledge and high intellectual powers of Baron Haller, no one can entertain a doubt; and yet, he could devise no other theory to account for the phenomena of the nervous functions. His opinions have always appeared to me very sensible, and they were accordant to the philosophy of his own times. He says, Si vero, cogitata nostra de ipsa natura spi- rituum proferre juberemur, activum ad mo- tum, a voluntate & a sensu concipiendum, aptissimum, celerrimum, omne sensuum acie subtiliusjtamen hactenus igne & aethere, & electro, & magnetica materie crassius fa- cere elementum, ut et contineri vasis & a vinculis coerceri aptum sit: & denique rtf^nifestum ex cibis nasci & reparari queat. Mr. Hunter’s opinion of a subtile and mobile substance, inhering in the nervous chords, is not essentially different from that of Haller. He does not indeed sup-58 LECTURE II. pose it to be confined in tubes, neither does the philosophy of the present time require such a supposition, for no one at present will doubt that a subtile substance may be attached to or inhere in a chord without mechanical confinement. Will not a wire when electrified continue to be so, if surrounded by non-conductors ? Expe- riments made on the limbs of animals with electricity, produced in the manner first explained by Volta, shew that different parts of the body have different conducting powers. Skin and membrane being very bad conductors, and brain, muscle, and blood being remarkably good ones. The celerity with which motions are transmitted from the tangible extremities of nerves most distant from the brain, and the celerity with which volition is trans- mitted to the muscles in consequence of sensations thus induced, are sufficient to convince us that such effects must be produced by the motions of a very mo- bile substance. It is not necessary to suppose that when such motions are trans-59 LECTURE II. mitted along the nervous chords, an evident motion of the visible matter of those chords should be induced. Electrical motions take place along a wire without occasioning any visible motion of the metal itself. Formerly, it was thought that the mo- tions of the nerves that cause sensation, were the effect of an impulse made on their tangible extremities, which was pro- pagated along the chord to the brain. It seems to be an improvement in modern physiology, to attribute sensation to an action begun in the nervous fibrils, in con- sequence of the stimulation which they suf- fer from such impulses. This opinion is contended for by Dr. Darwin, in his paper on ocular Spectra, published in the Phi- losophical Transactions; and Sir Everard Home has further shewn, that the living principle of nerves has an irritability be- longing to it, resembling that of muscles, and capable of causing a contraction in them when they arq divided.* * Croonian Lecture.60 LECTURE II. The opinion that sensation is the con- sequence of an action begun in and transmitted through the nervous fibrils, assists us in understanding how our sen- sations may be very vivid from the slightest impulses ; such, for instance, as take place in the application of odour to the olfactory nerves, for it is not the im- pulse, but the consequent action, that is transmitted to the sensorium : and why we may have no sensation from the most vio- lent impulses ; for such we cannot but sup- pose to occur, when a man is shot through the body, or has a limb removed by a can- non-ball; occurrences which have, however, happened without any distinct feeling inti- mating the event. In supposing a principle of life in nerves, similar to what is conceived to exist in muscles, we might naturally expect to find certain analogies of functions in those organs. The facility, celerity, and accu- racy of the nervous actions, seem like those of the muscles to be improved by use ; as is exemplified in the quick and correct per-61 LECTURE IL oeptions of those who are accustomed to exercise their auditory nerves in attending to musical sounds. A train of nervous ac- tions having often taken place, they, like similar actions in muscles, become conca-, tenated, and are liable to occur in suc- cession, when one of them is accidentally induced. Both nerves and muscles re^- quire temporary respites from action, and are refreshed by sleep. The supposition of actions occurring in the nerves, explains many circumstances connected with diseases. Vehement ac- tions may occur in the tangible extremi- ties of nerves, independent of impulses, and occasion severe pain. This seems to happen in the disease called tic douloureux. Ordinarily, actions beginning in the tan- gible extremities of nerves, are regularly transmitted to the brain ; but in cases of nervous pains, actions sometimes seem to begin in the middle of nerves ; and it is probable, that actions beginning in the sensorial extremities of nerves may be pro-62 LECTURE II. ductive of illusory sensations, and excite fallacious ideas. If this theory of nervous actions could be proved, the extent of our knowledge would onljK lead to this conclusion, that motions of a subtile substance, propagated to and fro in the nervous fibrils, take place in consequence of excitement by impulses and volition ; but from such motions, it seems impossible to account for sensation or volition. We can conceive no variety in these motions, but what relates to degree, duration, and succession, and it seems impossible to believe that sensation can be the result of such motions, or that ideas can arise from any succession or train of them. Certain persons will, therefore, I doubt not, con- tinue to think that sensation, remem- brance, comparison, judgment, and voli- tion are properties of some distinct sub- stance. The essences or primitive parts of what we call matter, are too subtile to be per-LECTURE II. 63 ceived by our senses, and seem even to elude our conceptions. Is it not then most philosophical to acknowledge our ignorance on these points, and to speak of what we do know, the properties of the different species of substances in na- ture. Thus we seem to be acquainted with the properties of the aggregate forms of that substance which is cognizable to the eye and touch, and which we then call matter; we seem to be assured of the existence, and to know something of the properties, of a subtile substance which pervades all nature ; and if we are allowed to know any thing, we surely may be ad- mitted to know the properties of our own minds. How diversified are our perceptions, how admirably are they adapted to our wants and gratifications! for all beauty of prospect, all melody of sound, all va- riety of odour, must by the eye of reason be perceived to result from the masses or molecules of surrounding matter, being in various states of motion or of rest:64- LECTURE If. of which circumstances we have notice by the actions they induce in our ner- vous fibrils. Such variety of perceptions I can only consider as the effect of the peculiar properties of that which feels, re- members, reasons, and wills, and which seems donnected with the brain alone. The conclusion to be drawn from this examination of the functions of the ner- vous system is curious and interesting. We perceive an exact correspondence between those opinions which result from physio- logical researches, and those which so na- turally arise from the suggestions of reason that some have them considered them as in- tuitive. For most reflecting persons in all ages have believed, and indeed it seems natural to believe, what modern physio- logy also appears to teach, that in the hu- man body there exists an assemblage of organs, formed of common inert matter, 6uch as we see after death, a principle of life and action, and a sentient and rational faculty, all intimately connected, yet each apparently distinct from the other.65 LECTURE II. So intimate, indeed, is the connection as to impose on us the opinion of their identity. The body springs and bounds as though its inert fabric were alive ; yet have we good reasons for believing that life is distinct from organization. The mind and the actions of life affect each other. Failure or disturbance of the ac- tions of life prevent or disturb our feel- ings, and enfeeble, perplex, or distract our intellectual operations. The mind equally affects the actions of life, and thus influ- ences the whole body. Terror seems to palsy all its parts, whilst contrary emotions cause the limbs to struggle, and become contracted from energy. Now though these facts may countenance the idea of the identity of mind and life, yet have we good reasons for believing that they are perfectly distinct. Whilst, therefore, on the one hand, I feel interested in oppugn- ing those physiological opinions whTch tend to confound life with organization • I would, on the other, equally oppose those which confound perception and intelli- gence with mere vitality.66 LECTURE II. In the first lecture I endeavoured to shew that Mr. Hunter’s Theory of Life was verifiable, and that it afforded the most rational solution of the cause of irri- tability, which had hitherto been offered to the public. It now appears that it does not essentially differ from that of the best physiologists, with regard to the expla- nation it affords of the nervous functions. As it is impossible to review all the phae- nomena of these functions in a lecture, I shall on the present occasion merely direct your attention to the consideration of one other subject, which is, the opi- nions we may be warranted in forming, respecting the connection of irritability and sensibility. This subject has been the cause of much controversy. Haller maintained that irri- tability was a distinct property inherent in muscles j to use his own words, that the\ had a vis insita, independent of the vis nervea; which opinion has of late leceived additional corroboration from some expe- riments of Mr. Brodie. lliose who objectLECTURE II. 67 f 2 to this opinion, can, I think, only oppose it on the following grounds. They must contend either that the muscles have a kind of perception of injury which causes them to contract, even though they are uncon- nected with the brain; or that the nerves are the organs which prepare and supply the muscles with something which is the cause of irritability. Concerning the first of these suppositions, that muscles may have a perceptibility of injury, distinct from that which we under- stand to be feeling, I have to observe, that we can have no idea of sensation but what lesults from our own experience, which may be defined to be perception attended with consciousness ; which kind of sensa- tion is confined to the brain alone. Of any other kind of perception, it is evident we can never form any idea. If a man s leg be amputated, and by voltaic electricity I excite contraction in its muscles for some hours, how can I know whether they feel or not ? We na-68 LECTURE II. turally judge of other subjects from our- selves, and knowing that we shrink from whatever pains us, some persons seem to conclude that the muscles contract because they have been hurt. To the patient who has suffered amputation, such a supposition would seem absurd. He may feel pain when no stimulus is applied to the limb, or he may feel ease when it is. h'.ay, he continues to feel pain, or sensations, in the limb when it is rotten, or no longer m existence; which seems to shew the in- tegrity of the sentient principle remaining in the brain. In vegetables, and in some of the lower kinds of animals, no traces of a nervous system are discoverable, yet the irritability of life is manifest in all. In the ascending series of animals, in proportion as the brain becomes large and complex, we have evi- dence of the perceptions and intelligence increasing ; a circumstance which would lead us to believe that these faculties were connected with that part of the nervous system. We have also equal reason toby LECTURE II. believe, that neither such perception nor intelligence is requisite for the mere func- tions of life, for these appear to be carried on as effectually in animals that have no brains, nay, in those which seem destitute of any nervous system, as in those which possess such organs. Indeed, many of the most vivacious and irritable animals have the least nervous system. The nerves in the lower order of animals, that have no common sensorium, may contribute to produce effects, which, in tracing the as- cending series, I have endeavoured to express by the words concurrence of im- pressions and actions; because intimations of impressions and actions occurring in one part may be communicated to others by these inter-nunciate chords, as Mr. Hunter called them, in cases where we are not warranted in supposing there is any sensation such as I have defined. Assuredly, motion does not necessarily imply sensation ; it takes place where no one ever yet imagined there could be sen- sation. If I pUt on the table a bason con-70 LECTURE II. tain ins a saturated solution of salt, and threw into it a single crystal; the act of crystallization would begin from the point touched, and rapidly and regularly pervade the liquor till it assumed a solid form. \ et I know I should incur your ridicule, if I suggested the idea that the stimulus oi the oo # salt had primarily excited the action, or that its extension was the effect of conti- nuous sympathy. If also I threw a spark amongst gun-powder, what would you think were I to represent the explosion as a struggle resentful of injury, or the noise as the clamorous expression of pain ? Now though chemists may solve the cause of these phenomena, physiologists have yet to learn, and probably they never may learn, why certain actions succeed to certain causes in li\ mg bodies. Causes which induce muscular or nervous actions in one part do not induce similar actions in another. Both muscles and nerves have peculiar habitudes and modes of ac- tion, and require the application of various peculiar excitements. Causes which pio-LECTURE II. 71 duce no bad effect upon one person, will have a detrimental influence upon another, and this we say is the result of idiosyn- crasy. Thus the odour of a cat, or the effluvia of mutton, the one imperceptible, the other grateful to the generality of persons, has caused individuals to fall on the ground as though bereaved of life, or to have their whole frame agi- tated bv convulsions. Substances which induce disease in one person or animal, do not induce disease in others* That pain is not the cause of action, is I think evident. Nervous motions, in- duced by the will, cause our muscles to act, but such motions occasion no sensation in the obedient muscles. When, therefore, we employ the terms in common use of a stimulus being applied, and an ac- tion or disease excited, we should remem- ber that neither the infliction of pain, nor absolute injury, is essential to the produc- tion of such consequences. With respect to the second proposition, into which I have resolved the objections f 472 LECTURE II. that may be made to Haller’s opinion of' irritability being independent on sensibility, I have only to remark, that the effects of pressure made on nerves, as well as other observations, have induced the general be- lief that some fluid or energy pervades the nerves for the supply of the body. Pres- sure on a nerve benumbs and paralyzes the parts which it supplies, which regain sensa- tion and motion on the removal of the pressure ; yet if irritability exists in vege- tables and some animals that have no ner- vous system, it shews the possibility of irritability being produced without the in- tervention of nerves. It has been my object to shew that Mr. Hunter’s Theory of Life is a verifiable Theory, and that it affords the most ra- tional explanation of the phenomena of irritability, and of those nervous functions that have been considered. It is, how- ever, impossible in the compass of a lec- ture, as I have before observed, to review all the phsenomena of the nervous func- tions, which it is necessary to do in orderLECTURE II. ys to establish it as a rational Theory. The contemplation of this subject at large, is fitter for meditation in the closet than for discussion in the lecture-room. I shall, therefore, merely mention by way of ex- citing attention to some of the phenomena alluded to, that it seems impossible to ac- count for those which Mr. Hunter con- sideied as the effect of sympathies between remote organs, or for those consequences of idiosyncrasy which have been men- tioned, upon any other supposition than that of a subtile substance, prone to act, or liable to fail in action, pervading the body, the affections of which can^with electrical celerity be propagated throughout the system. I have further to shew that Mr. Hunter’s Theory of Life is adequate to expiain the cause of the prevention of putrefaction, and the regulation of temperature. If the vital principle of Mr. Hunter be not elec- tricity, at least we have reason to believe it is of a similar nature, and has the power ot regu'ating electrical operations. That74 LECTURE II. electricity is the great chemist both in or- ganized and unorganized bodies, will be generally credited; and that the power which combines may also prevent decom- position is too obvious to need discussion. That electricity is capable of augmenting and diminishing the temperature of unor- ganized matter is well known. Does not Platinum wire drop like wax infusion when it intervenes between the different ends of the voltaic battery? and do not the spherules of rain fall to the ground at midsummer as firmly frozen as in the depth of win- ter, when they pass through a stratum of air refrigerated by electrical operations ? I believe I need say no more on these sub- jects. The varying and the strong retention of life by seeds, and some kinds of vegetables and animals, are facts which seem more satisfactorily solved by Mr. Hunter’s Theory of Life than by any other.75 LECTURE II. Impressed with the difficulties of the task I have undertaken, of giving lectures in the presence of men of superior knowledge and talents, respecting subjects on which every one has formed his own opinions, which of course he thinks correct; though desirous of fulfilling the design of these lectures to the extent of my ability, I feel unable to display the subjects of them in any other way than that to which I have been accustomed. Thinking as Mr. Hunter taught, with regard to life and its functions, in health and disorder, I must use his language as expressive of the phasnomena we observe. That an attention to the sym- pathies of parts and organs is necessary to our understanding disorder, and disease, I shall hereafter endeavour to shew. That Mr. Hunter did observe these sympathies in a manner and to an extent that surprized most professional men, is well known to all those who were present at his lectures on76 LECTURE II. this subject. Their surprize was indeed natural, because they were not then fully acquainted with his views and motives. » I mention these things, because I am aware that there are some who say sym- pathy is a term without any direct mean- ing, and that all which Mr. Hunter said on the subject of life, explains nothing. What Mr. Hunter meant, I believe I understand; what persons of different sentiments, whom I acknowledge pos- sess great information and ability, mean, when they talk in this manner, I am not so well able to discover. They seem to deny that life can be any thing which may not be seen or felt. They seem to wish us to be- lieve that they have that philosophical turn of mind which exempts them from vulgar prejudices, and that no Theory appears to them satisfactory, neither do they propose any for our adoption. Thinking being inevitable, we ought, as I said in the beginning, to be solicitous to think correctly. Opinions are equally theLECTURE II. 77 natural result of thought, and the cause of conduct. If errors of thought terminated in opinions, they would be of less conse- quence ; but a slight deviation from the line of rectitude in thought, may lead to a most distant and disastrous aberration from that line in action. I own I cannot readily believe any one who tells me, he has formed no opinion on subjects which must have engaged and interested his attention. Per- sons both of sceptical and credulous cha- racters form opinions, and we have in general some principal opinion, to which we con- nectthe rest, and to which we make them sub- servient ; and this has a greater influence on all our conduct. Doubt and uncertainty are so fatiguing to the human mind, by keeping it in continual action, that it will and must rest somewhere; and if so, our enquiry ought to be where it may rest most secure- ly and comfortably to itself, and with most advantage to others ? In the uncertainty of opinions, wisdom would counsel us to adopt those which have a tendency to pro- duce beneficial actions.78 LECTURE II. If I may be permitted to express myself allegorically, with regard to our intellectual operations, I would say, that the mind chooses for itself some little spot or district where it erects a dwelling, which it fur- nishes and decorates with the various ma- terials it collects. Of many apartments contained in it, there is one to which it is most partial, where it chiefly reposes, and where it sometimes indulges its visionary fancies. At the same time it employs itself in cultivating the surrounding grounds, raising little articles for intellectual traffic with its neighbours, or perhaps some pro- duce worthy to be deposited amongst the general stores of human knowledge. Thus my mind rests at peace in thinking on the subject of life, as it has been taught by Mr. Hunter ; and I am visionary enough to imagine, that if these opinions should become so established as to be generally admitted by philosophers, that if they once saw reason to believe that hie was some- of an invisible and acti\c natuie superadded to organization ; they would 5LECTURE II. 79 then see equal reason to believe that mind might be superadded to life, as life is to structure. They would then indeed still farther perceive how mind and matter might reciprocally operate on each other by means of an intervening substance. Thus even would physiological researches enforce the belief which I may say is natural to man; that in addition to his bodily frame, he pos- sesses a sensitive, intelligent and independ- ent mind : an opinion which tends in an eminent degree to produce virtuous, honor- able, and useful actions. THE END. Printed by A. Strahan, Nen'-Strfcet-Squarc, London.4 -I 111; >; • ; .PART OF THE INTRODUCTORY LECTURE FOR THE YEAR 1815, EXHIBITING SOME OF MR. HUNTER'S OPINIONS JAespecting Diseases. DELIVERED BEFORE THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, IN LONDON. BY JOHN ABERNETHY, F. R. S. PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND SURGERY TO THE COLLEGE Sontou; PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROWN PATERNOSTER-ROW. 1819.V . t97 ADVERTISEMENT. The following Sheets comprize only an Extract from the Introductory Lecture of the present year, which is designed to explain some of Mr. Hunters opinions re- specting Diseases. The pages are numbered, in continu- ation with those of the Introductory Lec- tures of the preceding course, printed last year, in order that the whole may he bound together. H99 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 1815. I PLRPOSE on the present occasion, to take a general review of the subjects, 'which engaged our attention last season ; and, to offer some comments upon them. In the preceding year, I first exhibited the facts I had collected, relative to those general disorders of the system, which are so frequently produced by local disease, mjury, or irritation. These Mr. Hunter considered to be the result of universal sympathy, 0f that sympathy which the whole system seems to have with its seve- H Q100 ral parts. In each of these disorders, in- deed, it is evident that the whole system is affected; the nervous functions are nn- ' paired or disturbed; as are also those o the digestive organs, and of the sanguiferous and secerning systems. Yet we denomi nate these general disorders from their most prominent character. Thus, nhen the sanguiferous and secerning organs are chiefly affected, and the temperature of the body is subject to considerable varia- tions, we call the disorder fever. Ot fevers, some are violent or.inflammatory, but of short duration ; some more languid and con- tinued, becoming as it were, habitual or hectical; and there are others, m which the actions are vehement, though the powers are feeble; these cannot be long continued, for they are speedily destruc- tive of life : *he last als0 frequently so Strikingly resemble Typhus, as not to be distinguishable from that fever when it101 arises from other causes. I also further shewed that the same local excitements would produce intermittent and rheumatic fevers; and occasion still more diversified and unexpected disorders. Now, here I would ask, to whom do we owe the first luminous demonstration of this subject; who, first with the eye of a physiologist, surveyed the reciprocal sym- pathies of the several organs of the body, and shewed how the most complex dis- orders may and do arise from simple causes ? Was it not Mr. Hunter? Allow me, fur- ther to enquire, does no good result, from this physiological exhibition of the sub- ject? Its utility might be explained by numerous instances, but I shall * re- strict myself to one. When we see that a compound fracture, in a susceptible and debilitated patient, may so disorder the102 nervous functions, that all the organs and parts of the body are affected as in that complicated malady a typhus fever ; can we longer feel surprized that disorder of the digestive organs and poisonous miasmata should equally and si- milarly impair and disturb the energies of the nervous system, and occasion this identical fever. Does not this discern- ment of the causes and nature of dis- eases, lead to a just appreciation of va- rious remedies, and to judicious prac- tice ? 4 Whilst considering the constitutional effects resulting from what Mr. Hunter called universal sympathy. I further shewed that the nervous disturbance, induced by local irritation of remote parts, might pro- duce effects more or less general upon the nervous and muscular systems, without so materially affecting the other organs of the103 body as to engage the attention of com- mon medical observers; and here I spoke of pain, sickness, swooning, rigors, con- vulsions, delirium, and tetanus. Lastly, in considering the effects result- ing from these sympathies, I shewed how the nervous disturbance might affect the feelings and functions of the digestive or- gans, and how the disorder so induced, might by a reflected operation, augment the former and greatly and variously disturb the whole system. This subject had indeed particularly attracted the attention of Mr. Hunter, who believed that the stomach had a direct sym- pathy with remote organs and parts of the body; whilst he equally observed, how it might reciprocally affect and be affected by the head. It was on this account, proba- bly, that he was led to call the stomach the104 center of sympathies, a term, which such observations, if correct, would render par- ticularly apt and expressive. The full importance of this subject, could not, I think, have been discovered by the most acute physiological observation. It has been, however, manifested by the results of medical practice, which shew that if the disor- dered feelings and functions of the digestive organs be removed, the greatest degrees of nervous disorder, will sometimes suddenly cease ; at others, will be greatly mitigated, and gradually subside; clearly proving, that in such cases, the one derangement is the cause of the other. To this subject, I particularly claimed your attention, because, it seems to me perfectly demonstrable, that the continued and aggravating irritation which the brain and abdominal viscera, when disordered.105 impart to each other, is productive of a state of constitution, of which, (to express my notions in the briefest way I could,) I said, that it proved the fruitful parent of a numerous and dissimilar progeny of local diseases. On this account, the disorders of the digestive organs should become an es- pecial object of attention, in the treatment of local diseases ; for it is in vain to expect that such diseases, which may be considered as effects, should admit of cure, whilst the causes that produced them, are left, to ope- rate in force sufficient for their maintenance or their production in other parts of the body. Having thus considered the nature and treatment of constitutional maladies, so far as the subject is applicable to the practice of Surgery ; I proceeded in the next place, to speak of local diseases, and first, of those which often arise spontaneously, though they106 may sometimes be induced by external in- jury, and which also may occur in almost every part of the body. Here too, it may be observed, that the whole of the local affected district is disor- dered ; that the nervous functions and vital energies of the part, are either impaired, excited, or disturbed, and that the func- tions of the vascular systems of the part are also deranged. Yet here, likewise, we de- nominate the disorder from its most promi- nent character; thus, when the sanguife- rous system is chiefly affected, we name the disease Inflammation. Of inflammations, as of fevers, it may be observed, that some are violent and of short duration ; some languid and continued, or chronic; whilst, in others, the actions are vehement, though the powers are feeble, and the latter cannot be long continued, for if they do not soon107 subside, they destroy the life of the affected part. We seem to consider violent or phlegmo- nous inflammation, to be simply the result of an increased action of vessels, though, probably this disease has its varieties; in the other species of inflammations, the va- rieties, are evident and numerous. In chronic inflammation, we sometimes see the substance deposited in consequence of the increased action of vessels, such as is usually poured out in cases of simple ex- citement, and the subsequent organization, is also of the common kind ; whilst in other instances, we observe the deposited substance to be very various in quality, either not ad- mitting of, or not acquiring organization. Again, in other cases, when organization takes place, we observe, the structures pro- duced, to be very various in their appear- ances and nature, and thus monstrous108 growths are formed, such as had no exist- ence in the original compages of the body. When such morbid growths occur in the dif- ferent organs of the body, their apparent bulk becomes enlarged; but their natural struc- ture and functions are diminished, and may ultimately be destroyed. As we find the same sorts and varieties of growths, taking place from the same causes in the midst of the common tissue, that con- nects the -various parts of the body, I was led to speak of Tumours, though, b}^ this means, it became necessary to consider se- veral diseases, which might, perhaps, with more propriety have been reserved, for dis- cussion at a future period. Here, however, the natural connexions of subjects were so \ strong, that no artificial concatenation, ap- peared so well adapted to fulfil the chief ob- ject of arrangement, that of preserving and displaying every fact relating to the subject.109 I next described what I called irritative inflammation, of which there are many varieties, and they were briefly noticed. Erysipelas was separately spoken of, because we usually distinguish it as a readily recog- nizable species of inflammation, allied in its nature to those of the irritative kind. Lastly I spoke of Mortification as an event like suppuration peculiar to no indi- vidual disease, but a common termination to many. It is the result of simple weakness; of want of action; of excessive action ; and of other causes ; and consequently re- quiring a proportionate variety of treatment. On this subject, I could not forbear starting an opinion, which some may think whimsical, - and others absurd, even before this critical and learned assembly. I asserted, that mor- tification was not unfrequently the result of nervous disorder in the affected part, and further affirmed that I was well ac-110 quainted with the family from which this disorder, with the subsequent alarming disease, was descended; that it was one of the numerous and dissimilar progeny of the common parents of local diseases; that it was a short lived bantling, engendered by the reciprocal and aggravating irritation of disordered states of the digestive organs and nervous system on each other. It therefore followed that local applications were of little avail in this species of mor- tification, and that the removal of the exciting causes were the chief means of procuring a diminution and ultimate cessa- tion of such effects. In various parts of the lectures, I en- deavoured to impress a distinction between disorder and disease. In disorder, the vital energies of parts are impaired, or excited and disturbed, as is manifested by errors in their feelings and functions. DisorderIll may therefore be said to be nervous, and parts may thus perish without struggle or reaction; without inflammatory processes, or with so trivial a degree of them as could not by itself destroy vitality. To support these opinions by additional evidence, I would direct your attention to what happens in a disordered state of the stomach. Are not its feelings and functions disordered ? By feelings, I do not mean those of actual pain; there may be in- quietude without the patient’s observing it> though, in general, uncomfortable sensa- tions are remarked, particularly if the attention be excited to them. In such a disordered condition of the stomach, are not the secretions deficient or vitiated : and is it not, therefore, incompetent to perform its functions ? We now know, for of late it has been demonstrated, that secre- tion is regulated by the nervous energies.112 Am I not then warranted in asserting, that disorder is nervous, and that it is manifested by errors in the feelings and functions of the affected parts ? Such a disordered state of the stomach as I now allude to, is also competent to induce sympathetic disorders in other im- portant organs, and greatly and variously to affect all parts of the body. Now here I beg leave to enquire, who first led the way in noting the various sympathies of the different organs and parts of the body ? Was it not Mr. Hunter P Many of my audience may not know that three or four of his lectures were occupied in recording the different facts he had collected relative to such sympathies. They were arranged under heads, as Sympathies of Life with Life ; of Sensation with Sensation ; of Action113 with Action; including all their changes and combinations. I candidly acknow- ledge the reflection which these lectures induced in my mind. How extraordinary a man, thought I, is this, who could bestow such surprising labour on so hope- less a subject. I also candidly acknowledge that I now think, as probably the com- prehensive and discerning mind of Mr. Hunter then perceived, that much good may eventually be derived from patient and accurate observation with respect to this subject. We find many disorders and consequent diseases arise from sympathy, and that the organ sympathetically dis- turbed, often suffers more than that origi- nally affected. Yet its disorder may not be susceptible of cure by medical treatment, whilst the cause remains. Our attention ought, therefore, to be directed in such cases to appeasing irritation, and giving tone and tranquillity to an organ of which i114 the patient perhaps makes no complaint, but which is the cause of the more evident and important malady. To me the philosophical turn of Mr. Hun- ter’s mind is demonstrated by his caution ; with all his facts relating to sympathy, he formed scarcely any general conclusions. He distinguishes it into the continuous, con- tiguous, and remote. The two former are * readily explicable. Of the latter, I, who have less caution, or more facts of a certain description than Mr. Hunter might have possessed, do not hesitate to sayt that when injuries or disease of limbs bring on fevers, delirium, convulsions, or tetanus, or disturb the feeling and func- tions of the digestive organs, that these effects are produced through the medium of the brain. Whether sympathies can take place in a more direct or less cir- cuitous manner, may be proposed as a115 question which I should thus answer. When organs are supplied from the same plexuses or ganglia, it is reasonable to suppose they may participate in each others disorder; on this principle, the whole of the digestive organs might ra- tionally be supposed to sympathize with one another, and also the whole of the organs contained in the pelvis ; disorder of the stomach might be supposed like-£ wise to affect the aesophagus, lungs, larynx, and tongue, in consequence of those ner- vous communications with which we are well acquainted. But it may further be enquired, can sympathetic feelings occur between parts where we have not been able to trace such nervous communica- tions, or how do those strange sympathies occur, and become established in disorder and disease, which we never observe in health ? To me it is evident, as it was to Mr. Hunter, that the stomach has a i 2116 direct sympathy with the most distant parts of the body; and that the heart sympathizes with the stomach; but in what manner such sympathies are pro- duced, or how the morbid and irregular sympathies which occur in diseases are occasioned, we presume not to explain. Yet if Mr. Hunter’s opinions of the na- ture of life be true, none of these facts can well be considered as surprising. * v Disorder, which is the effect of faulty actions of nerves, induces disease, which is the consequence of faulty actions of vessels. There are some who find it difficult to understand how similar swellings or ulcers may form in various parts of the body, in consequence of general nervous disorder, and are all curable by appeasing and removing such general disorder. The fact is indisputable. Such persons are not so much surprised, that general nervous117 disorder should produce local effects in the nervous and muscular systems; yet they cannot so well understand how it should lo- cally affect the vascular system. To me there appears nothing wonderful in such events, for the local affection is primarily nervous, and the vascular actions are con- sequent. Yet it must indeed be granted that there may be other circumstances leading to the peculiarities of local diseases, with which, at present, we are unacquainted. Disorder excites to disease, and when im- , portant organs become in a degree diseased, they will still perform their functions mo- derately well, if disorder be relieved; which therefore ought to be the alpha and omega of medical attention. Such were the subjects I endeavoured briefly to explain during the preceding season. I have thus led you to the place wheie we stopped, and from which we are113 flow to proceed. Previously, however, to our advancing, allow me to enquire, who first ex- plained in a physiological and satisfactory manner the diseased processes I have referred to, the formation of abscesses; the secretion of pus; the intersticial and other growths ; the causes and circumstances of mortifica- tion ? Was it not Mr. Hunter ? We now hear no more of those ancient metaphors concoction and erosion, but we find all the morbid changes accounted for by the per- verted action of the ordinary powers and structures of parts ; clearly perceiving that the same powers and organisation, which by their natural and common actions pro- duce health and beauty of appearance, do, when perverted, occasion disease and de- formity. Again, too, when we survey the infi- nite diversity of local diseases, how can we express ourselves, but in the language119 of Mr. Hunter, by saying, that they are the result of peculiar or specific actions ? To explain my meaning with respect tor this subject, I must request you to advert to the labours and opinions of preceding physiologists. Were they not looking for mechanical contrivances, to account for the peculiar secretions which different glands produced? Ruysch displayed the penni- cillous, the stellated, and contorted arrange- ments (called the acinous structure) of the minute and probably secerning vessels of different glands. 1 also am persuaded that Mr. Hunter, when he put the pieces of talc within the tunica vaginalis of a ram, and withdrew them successively to ascertain how soon the secreted fluids acquired the puriform character, did, when he afterwards examined the parts, observe them with particular attention, in order to discover whether some peculiarity of structure had not preceded this peculiarity120 of secretion. Baron Haller, however, ex- pressly asserts the opinion, that actions, living actions, have a great share in causing the peculiarities of secretions, and the changes we observe in them. But the direct proof of this fact remained to be exhibited to the public by Mr. Hunter. It was by observing the peculiarity of the local actions, and consequent secretions resulting from the application of different morbific poisons, that this subject was placed in a clear and distinct point of view. r In sdbh cases the same structure may be very variously affected, producing different forms of disease, and various kinds of secretions. I do not dwell upon the sub- ject, because the facts and inferences have not as yet been laid before you. I bring forwards Mr. Hunter’s opinions on these subjects, at present, merely to shew what notions we are warranted in121 forming, relative to the causes of such an extreme diversity of local affections, either of an inflammatory or other character. If actions can be peculiar and specific, if the effect of them can be that of producing various forms of disease, and qualities of secretions, when such actions are excited by peculiar stimuli; is it not probable that the actions which occur in parts, the feelings and functions of which are dis- ordered, may spontaneously assume a pecu- liar character, and thus give rise to the diversity of diseases ? . We have, as I shall afterwards shew you, in some cases positive evidence in proof of this proposition. Now when the terms specific and pecu- liar actions were employed by Mr. Hunter, to designate facts which have not, and as I believe cannot be otherwise expressed, persons, who seem to me to employ their minds rather in preventing than in pro- *122 moting the progress of science, who object to every thing new, and suggest nothing, boldly asserted them to be absurd. They sage- ly observed it was impossible that there could be any peculiarity of action ; because ves- sels could only act more or less forcibly or frequently. Now when Mr. Hunter makes use of the phrase peculiar action of vessels, I am sure he meant more than he ex- pressed, and employs it only on account of brevity. For he thought that life was the cause of the actions of vessels ; that it pervaded the fluid blood, and the gelati- nous and albuminous solids; that it built up the very organisation by which it effected its subsequent functions ; that the life of vessels could modify their con- tents : that life was the cause of the various secretions, and the forms and phenomena we observe both in health and disease. I am persuaded Mr. Hunter’s notions of123 disease cannot be apprehended, unless his opinions respecting life be previously un- derstood, and, therefore, did 1 deem it necessary, in the first place, to endeavour to explain his doctrimes on that subject. There is an obscurity in his writings, and his meaning cannot always be perceived, unless by that kind of illumination which is derived from a continual reference to his elementary opinions concerning vitality. With such elucidation, how- ever, it may be discerned that in the lec- tures I last year had the honor of address- ing to you, I did little more than deliver Mr. Hunter’s opinions respecting diseases. Surely, He must have been a strong and clear sighted man, to see so far through obscurity; for till very recent- ly no light had ever shone upon these subjects, but of late the vital functions have been so far illuminated, that any one who pleases may see that Mr. Hunter has124 pourtrayed them, both in health and disease, with a distinctness and accuracy highly creditable to his penetration and discernment. It seemed to me proper on this occasion to review the subjects which engaged our attention during the preceding year, to lead you to the point where we stopped, and from which we are to proceed. Yet this review has occupied so much time, that I fear I cannot to day finish even one of the subjects next in succession; besides,. I suspect it may have disqualified both myself and my audience from paying that close attention to them which is required in order to understand them. There is no class amongst the students of nature that ought more particularly to attend to the advice of Bacon, than that of surgeons. To look closely and intently at the subjeots they are engaged in examining, in order125 to discern what nature may perform or endure. Yet when the eye has been long employed in viewing distant objects, it does not speedily regain its myoptic powers, and adapt itself for such a scrutiny as we are next to take. 1 am, therefore, induced still to detain your attention to general topics. The works and writings of Mr. Hunter have now been long before the public, so that all may be supposed equally qualified to form their own opinions of his merits, and pertinaciously to persist in eulogizing his cha- racter, may seem like arrogating to myself a power of judgment, and denying it to others. It is, however, the opportunities I have possessed, that have been the cause of the peculiarity of my sentiments and opinions ; for I am old enough to remem- ber the state of surgery and surgeons in this metropolis, previous to the gene-126 ral promulgation of the new facts and opinions he added to the stock of profes- sional knowledge, and I believe him to be the author of a great and important revolu. tion in medical science; of this I am certain that his works produced a complete revolu- tion in my mind. Gan I then do otherwise than acknowledge it P If I have to deliver facts and opinions which I am conscious I derived from another, can I appear before any audience, either of students or bre- thren in the profession, like the vain daw decorated with another’s plumes, and liable to be detected and convicted as the very worst of pilferers, the purloiner of another’s reputation. I should be ashamed on any occasion to feel either reluctant or afraid to render honor and praise to whom they are due, and in my opinion they are emi- nently due to Mr. Hunter. Believing Mr. Hunter to have possessed /127 that rare combination of qualities, which, whenever it occurs, constitutes an eminent character, I mean genius, reflection, and industry; and that he has made a most im- : portant revolution in science ; I cannot but regret the obscurity and intricacy of his language, which prevents his merits from being duly appreciated, I have furnished you with the only clue I know of to guide you through the labyrinth. There are some who possessing great powers of reflection, and accuracy of judgment, yet from deficient knoAvledge of language, and of the generally received or adapted modes of forming opinions, or from not paying attention to the processes of their own minds in forming conclu- sions, are unable to explain their thoughts to others. I am ready to grant that there is an obscurity in Mr. Hunter’s writings.128 the result even of perplexity of thought. I know not how I can express my notions of the cause and effect of this obscurity more briefly and clearly than by a kind of metaphor I have been accustomed to use on this occasion. The products of the fermentation of that mixture of knowledge and talent which there was in the mind of \ Mr. Hunter, seem to me to have been completely formed. Yet the mass still re- mained in commotion, and sufficient time had not elapsed to allow of those products becoming perfectly clear. If I have not overrated the value of such products, I may urge some claim to approbation for having carefully collected and filtered them. To express my meaning without metaphor, for having sedulously endea- voured to make out Mr. Hunter’s opi- nions, and tried, at least, to express them more distinctly. I heartily wish, indeed.129 that his opinions had met with a better expositor; for I, like him, have been an unpremeditated author, who never learned the art of literary composition. May I, however, venture to suggest another reason why some do not understand Mr. Hunter. If we wish to learn what another thinks, we must dispose our minds to receive instruction in the very manner it may be conveyed to us. We must re- linquish, for a time, all attention to our own opinions, in order to learn those which are to be communicated. The same pro- cesses of mind must be gone through, or the same results cannot be obtained; we must follow in exactly the same steps, or we shall never arrive precisely at the same point. It is a very ancient observation, that seh-conceit opposes a constant and sometimes an insurmountable barrier to instruction. “ Seest thou a man wise in K130 his own conceit, there is more hope of a fool than of that man.” Under the in- fluence of these considerations, I do not wonder that young men, who will not take the pains necessary even to learn what Mr. Hunter thought respecting life, should be unable to understand his general writings, and suppose others to be as incapable as themselves. 1 should not doubt of being able to induce any one, who had previously no decided objection, to think as I do respecting Mr. Hunter. Only a few of the facts on which I found my opinion of his character are at present before you ; you must know them all, ere you can think and feel exact- ly as I do. Conscious that I may tire, nay even displease you, by thus obtruding m\ individual sentiments, resolving never to trespass on your patience in the same wa\ again; but hereafter undeviatingly to pui- 0131 sue the regular and beaten path of sober tuition, may I now claim your indulgence for a short time, whilst I advert to some other subjects, in which Mr. Hunter has done our profession and mankind in general important service. * ). i \ t When the description of the inflamma- tory diseases is concluded, the next sub- ject that will engage your attention is that of Diseases which the absorbing vessels are principally concerned in producing. To detach all the facts and opinions of Mr. Hunter, relative to this subject from the dif- ferent parts of these lectures, and review them at present would be tedious and un- profitable ; suffice it then to say, that in perfecting the knowledge of the physiolo- gy of the absorbing vessels, all nations allow great merit to the English. On this ground, even the French seem to admit the triumph K 2 %132 I of English physiology. But by whom were we led on to this victory P By whose per- sonal exertions was the laurel won ? Surely by Mr. Hunter. In the next succeeding subjects, the dis- eases induced by the action of poisons on the animal frame, when I consider the number and importance of the facts first noticed, and the inferences first drawn by Mr. Hunter, together with the consequences which have resulted from them, I must re- gard him, even if he had done nothing else, as a most important benefactor to our pro- fession, and to the public. I shall advert to no other subjects but merely add, that there is one sentiment which ought, I think, to attach every English surgeon to the memory of John Hunter. It is that esprit de corps which133 belongs to all associations of mankind. We should be grateful to him for he has ex- alted us, he has dignified our profession. Baron Haller commenting on the character and conduct of surgeons in general, ex- presses his surprize, that no one has been particularly eminent in that profession * To me it would have been surprizing had it been otherwise, considering the debased condition into which the profession had sunk, and in which it had remained for ages* I admit, that surgery was gradually rising, and would eventually have obtained its proper level amongst sciences; when Mr. Hunter suddenly raised it to its present ele- * In chirurgicis, nescio quomodo factum est, ut vix unquam perinde ut in aliis medicin* partibus magnis ali- quis vir eminuerit, qui late posteros sequaces habuerit. % (Bibliotheca Chirurgica Init. Tom. 2.)134 vated situation from which it can never be removed. Mr. Hunter became a physiologist, and to become such a physiologist as he was, it was necessary that every variety of struc- ture and of function should be surveyed in every variety of living being; that nature and nature’s laws should be examined with the most minute attention, and upon the most extended scale; that parts should be observed with microscopic scrutiny, and yet that comprehensive views should be taken of the whole. Afterwards, with the en- lightened eye of a physiologist, he surveyed the perverted actions of living bodies in the production of diseases. Thus did he make surgery a science. It is the knowledge of health that enables135 us to understand the nature of disease. He connected pathology with physiology, and it is impossible in future ever to dis- join them. He raised a solid and perma- nent pillar of physiology, and he placed surgery on the top, where it must ever re- main equal in rank and elevation to any other science, perhaps superior in utility to all. By so doing, it may, I think, with truth be affirmed of him, » opus exegit, quod nec Jovis ira, nec ignes Nec poterit ferrum, nec edax abolere vetustas. There is no path to scientific improve- ment in our profession, but that which Mr. Hunter trod. It is the path of physiology. It is now fairly laid open to you. He has been your pioneer. Enter, and in propor- tion as you pursue it with vigour and con- / stancy, so will you arrive at knowledge, and obtain renown. Do this ; and it is136 certain, no future Haller will have cause to express surprize, that Surgeons have been undistinguished characters, in the medical profession. U. Sryer, Printer, Bridge-street, Blackfriarj, tondos.PHYSIOLOGICAL LECTURES, EXHIBITING A GENERAL VIEW OF MR. HUNTER'S PHYSIOLOGY, AND OF HIS RESEARCHES IN Comparative 3natomg+ delivered before THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, IN THE YEAR 1817. « BY JOHN ABERNETHY, F.R.S. &c. SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW’S AND CHRIST’S HOSPITALS. LONDON: 1 KIMED I'OR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND JBROWN, PATERNOSTER-ROW. 1817.£ ••... ■ - Printed by A. Strahan, New-Street-Square, London.TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE Sir JOSEPH BANKS, Bart. K.B. &c. Dear Sir, To you, the Patron and Friend of* John Hunter, I dedicate this inadequate attempt to deline- ate his character and labours. Permit me at the same time to assure you of my great respect, and also of my gratitude for various acts of friendship and kindness which you have conferred on me. „ f have the honour to be, Dear Sir, ^ our much obliged and obedient Servant, JOHN ABEHNETHY.■ ! ;" ' ./■ > . . .I'-H/ /.IPHYSIOLOGICAL LECTURES In the Year 1817. LECTURE I. After resolving to write no more lec- tures, nor longer to praise Mr. Hunter, I break this resolution ; yet my conduct seems to need no apology, for if my first decision was wrong, it is creditable to re- tract it; and if I am now wrong, it is pro- bable I shall soon discover my error, the candid acknowledgment of which, would then, be far better than ingenious excuses. I have praised Mr. Hunter for his Theory of Life, because it is a probable one, cau- tiously and philosophically deduced, and adequate to explain the phenomena. Therefore am I directed by the precepts of philosophy, and also induced by other BLECTURE I.. 2 reasons, which I have partly explained In my first Lectures, to uphold it as a good theory, till a more satisfactory one be dis- covered. I have praised him, because his perception of the healthy state of the vital processes enabled him to discern and in- vestigate the causes and effects of disorder and disease in a manner and degree that have produced a most important revolution in medical science. I now mean to praise him for the great labour of his life, his Museum ; which I may call the principal record of his deeds and opinions. Hitherto I have endeavoured to make the Anatomical Lectures subservient totfk surgical subjects I had afterwards to discuss. Finding myself rather at a loss for such topics, particularly because this theatre is unsuited to anatomical demonstrations, it occurred to me, that it might be useful to re- present to my present audience, what were the peculiar improvements Mr. Hunter made in Physiology, and also the degree of perfection to which he brought that science.b 2 » , * . B* * * * * # ■ LECTURE R 3 No study can surely be so interesting as Physiology. Whilst other sciences carry us abroad in search of objects, in this we are engaged at home, and on concerns highly important to us; in enquiring into the means by which we live, and move, and have our being. To those however, engaged in the practice of medicine, the study of Phy- siology is indispensable; for it is evident that the nature of the disordered actions of parts or organs can never be understood, nor judiciously counteracted, unless the na- ture of their healthy actions be previously known. Wk- ■- *he study of Physiology, however, not only lequires, that we should investigate the nature of the various vital processes ear- ned on in our own bodies, but also that we should compare them with similar processes in all the varieties of living beings; not only that we should consider them in a state of natural and healthy action, but also under all the varying circumstances of disorder and disease. Few, indeed, have studied Physiology thus extensively, andLECTURE I. 4 none in an equal degree with Mr. Hunter. Whoever attentively peruses his writings, must, I think, perceive that he draws his crowds of facts from such different and re- mote sources, as to make it extremely difficult to assemble and arrange them. * r r * • ' • r J I am the more particularly induced to follow Mr. Hunter through the separate examination of the principal vital functions, because I know his notions of life were de- duced from considering them severally and conjointly. I hope therefore to be able, by such an examination, to convince you of the truth of his opinions on that subject; for I hear there are some who still say they think them either unintelligible, or inad- missible. If these opinions be not under- stood, his works, I am persuaded, will re- main obscure. They seem to me like writ- ings in a cypher; his notions of life form- ing the only key by which they can be in- telligibly read. Yet, to examine the vital processes, as Mr. Hunter has done, it is ne- cessary to refer to the facts contained m his Museum ; and to commemorate his labours5 LECTURE I. b 3 as a comparative anatomist, which it is par- ticularly incumbent on some of us to do ; for so little have they been revealed to the public in general, that even Professor Cuvier has declared, he knew not that there was such a collection as the Hunterian Museum. To display the talents and labours of Mr. Hunter in forming his Museum, it seems proper, in the first place, to notice those circumstances which led to this great un- dertaking : for great indeed must it be accounted* when it is considered, that it was accomplished by the labour, and at the expense, of an individual. Mr. Hunter was the hist in this country, and I believe I mav say in any country, who studied Compa- rative Anatomy and Physiology extensive- ly, in order to perfect the knowledge of our own animal economy. I admit, indeed, that Baron Haller was fully apprized of the advantages likely to result from this pro- ceeding, and that he himself had prose- cuted the same mode of enquiry, to a cer- tain degree. I am also aware, that many men may have explored the structure and6 LECTURE I. functions of particular tribes of animals even more fully than Mr. Hunter himself has done. I am aware, that when the Count de Buffon engaged in his work on natural history, he might have excited Daubenton to a general investigation of the Structure and functions of all the varieties of living beings ; and that Professor Pallas might have followed the steps of Dauben- ton, and traced the subject generally and extensively. But, I am not apprized that any systems of Comparative Anatomy and Physiology were published before those of Professors Blumenbach and Cuvier. Nei- ther can I believe it possible, that such enlarged and interesting views of the struc- ture and functions of living beings in ge- neral, could have been formerly contem- plated and not displayed by any man except by Mr. Hunter, who experienced such great difficulty in communicating what he knew, was never satisfied with the ex- tent of his knowledge, and who cultivated Physiology, only as preparatory to the still more important science of Pathology. Of late years, many persons have engaged inLECTURE I. 7 the study of Comparative Anatomy and Physiology, and they seem to feel like the discoverers of a new path in science, which they pursue with animation and energy, as promising to lead them to some advan- tageous and commanding situation, from which they may eventually discern the whole order and course of nature in the most interesting part of her works, the for- mation and functions of living beings. Yet this is the very path which Mr. Hunter trod, unobserved, and in silence, with constant and accurate observation, and profound meditation. It is but just, that some one should say how far he had pro- ceeded, and what were the general results of his observations and enquiries. Mr. Hunter came to London in the autumn of the year 1748, and was educated to anatomy, during ten years, in his bro- ther’s dissecting room. In that time, he made many important discoveries in the structure of the human body, and his at- b 4LECTURE I. s tention, from a very early period, being di- rected to Comparative Anatomy* we find him subsequently asserting, that among other researches in this department, he had in the same interval made prepar- ations of the organ of hearing in fishes, of which he claimed the discovery. Mr. Hun- ter’s biographer, Sir E. Home, mentions, “ that his desire to obtain a correct know- ledge of the functions of the organs in the human body, first led him to examine the same kind of organs in various animals.” From his brother’s elegant and learned lectures, Mr. Hunter must have derived the best physiological information of the time; the facts and opinions of every writer, collected, arranged, considered, and improved by the industry and talents of Baron Haller, together with whatever later discoveries or suggestions had been made in that department of science. When he went abroad as an army surgeon in the year 1760, he had an opportunity of ac- quiring a knowledge of the animal pro- ductions of other countries, and of theirLECTURE 1. 9 surrounding seas. But he had neither time nor opportunity tor the collection and display of those facts which doubtless he constantly accumulated. He returned to England, his mind teeming with know- ledge, and full ot great designs ; determin- ing to display the structure, and investigate the functions of living beings in general, both in the states of health and disease. With what extreme and unabating industry he wrought at this great work, his bio- grapher has also told us; he allowed him- self but five hours daily rest, during the remainder of his life. His mornings were passed in the Museum, and his days in constant experiments and dissections. His object in forming the Museum was simple ; it was to display the anatomical facts which were the ground-work of his physiological opinions; to exhibit the visible means, by which the vital processes were carried on, in all the varieties of living beings, that came within his cogni- zance. Mr. Hunter’s biographer has told us how anxiously he sought for sources ofLECTURE I. 10 knowledge. In 1782, Mr. Hunter says, his Museum “ had already cost him 10,000/. besides the labour required in making the preparations. Of this sum more than 2000/. had been expended in the purchase of dead animals only.”* Opportunities of examining; rare and curious animals were also liberally afforded to him, chiefly through the means of that zealous patron and promoter of science, Sir Joseph Banks; towards whom, he always felt and expres- sed the warmest friendship and gratitude. Mr. Hunter knew but little of the arbi- trary arrangements of natural history. The simplicity of his object induced an equal simplicity of arrangement. The facts are displayed in his Museum, according to the order of the vital processes, which is the method also adopted by Professor Cuvier. I repeat what I asserted in the intro- ductory lectures, that the preparations in the Museum are records of facts. Mr. ♦European Magazine for 1782.LECTURE I. 11 Hunter would have given his money even to Jus ovvn ruin’ to bave Procured the evl‘ dence of any fact warranting an important physiological conclusion ; but he admitted nothing into his collection foreign to its general design; and scarcely any thing but of intrinsic value is to be found amongst the real gems in his cabinet. We do not over-rate the value of his preparations, in comparing them with the paintings of an ancient master, which are of high price, because they possess a peculiarity of excel- lence that cannot be equalled. Every object shown by Mr. Hunter is displayed with a kind of elegance, as well as with distinctness and truth. He was not a man of learning, and derived but little assistance from the la- bours of others. Few perceived the ultimate objects of his pursuit. His enquiries into the structure of the lower kinds of animals, were regarded as works of unprofitable curiosity, and no one felt an interest in them. There- fore, without the solace of sympathy, or encouragement of approbation, without collateral assistance, did he labour to per- fect his designs, till death deprived us of 7lecture I. 12 SO great a benefactor to mankind: an event which happened on the 16th of October, In the autumn of the year 1776, Sir Everard Home informs us, that « Mr. Hunter was taken extremely ill, and the nature of his complaints made his friends as well as himself, consider his life to be in danger. When he reflected on his own situation, that all his fortune had been expended in his pursuits, and that his fa- mily had no provision but what should arise from the sale of his collection, he be- came very desirous to give it its full value, by leaving it in a state of arrangement.” He theiefore was anxious to have a cata- logue made, and wrote a little preface to each department of his Museum. These explanations of his designs ought not, in my opinion, to be published j for they appear to be mere sketches of what he meant in future to have finished. To these writings, however, I shall frequently refer, because they showLECTURE I. 13 the extent of' his knowledge and views at that time ; which was more than 20 yeats prior to the publication of Professor Cuvier’s lectures. On his recovery from this severe illness, his time was however occupied in increasing his knowledge, and not in re- cording what he had obtained ; and his ca- tilogue no longer seemed the important object his illness had made it appear. Con- siderations, deducible from the imperfect state in which he left his Museum, probably influenced his last act; for he would not suffer it to be sold unless altogether; doubt- less anticipating, that when it was examined as a whole, his designs and his labours would be fully appreciated. In the pursuit of knowledge, he relinquished that of wealth, so that he left his family no other legacy than his Museum ; which after the lapse of several years, was bought by Par- liament, and given to this college. Mr. Hunter’s Museum has thus become our museum ; and I trust that every member of this college will feel that interest inv it, which is commonly felt for things apper- taining to ourselves. Belonging to a com-U JLECTURE I. mercial nation, we visit every part of the world ; and have opportunities of bringing home whatever is rare and curious in Com- parative Anatomy. But to know the wants of the Museum, it is necessary that we should know what it contains, and also the general desiderata in this department of science. The latter may be learned from the syste- matic books lately published, and both wiL be shown by the lectures of my brother professor, whose extensive and accurate knowledge of Comparative Anatomy, as well as of other subjects connected with medical science, cannot but greatly redound to the credit of his industry, comprehension, and capacity. Gratitude to the former of the Museum, and also to the donors of it, equallv de- mand that its value and excellence should be publicly acknowledged and displayed; which consideration has goaded me on to undertake and imperfectly to execute a task, for which I feel myself not properly qualified. It is my design, on the present15 LECTURE I. occasion, not only to show you what were Mr. Hunter’s opinions respecting the prin- cipal vital processes, but also briefly to ex- hibit the extent of his knowledge in Com- parative Anatomy, and to contrast it with that promulgated of late years by Professor Cuvier. I candidly acknowledge, however, that I have little acquaintance with the subject, except what I derived from looking over the preparations in the Museum, from reading Professor Cuvier’s lectures, and from the frank and friendly communications of our highly praise-worthy conservator, Mr. Clift. Permit me to say, gentlemen, though many may know it already, that Mr. Clift resided with Mr. Hunter, and was taught by him to exhibit anatomical facts in preparations ; that he does credit to his excellent instructor ; that he feels the same interest and zeal that his patron did for the improvement of this department of science ; and that he possesses the same candour and simplicity of character. I am, however, aware that I may have attended chiefly to one side of the subject, and that my partiality to Mr. Hunter, may a little mislead me ; ILECTURE 1. 1G wish yon, therefore, no further to confide in what I say, than as I confirm my assertions by facts ; and to regard me, on this occasion, in the light I appear to myself, as one ven- turing to come forwards a voluntary advo- cate in the cause of Hunter versus Cuvier and others, and in this character I may thus address you. Gentlemen, (of the Jury), I trust I can prove to your perfect conviction, by ample and incontrovertible evidence, that my client died seised and possessed of very considerable literary property, the hard- earned gainings of great talent and unpa- ralleled industry. It is not, however, for the property that I plead, because that is already secured ; it is fenced in, land- marks are set up, it is registered in public documents. I plead only, for the resti- tution of a great and accumulated income of reputation, derivable from that property ; which I trust you will perceive to be justly due, and will consequently award to my client and his country. In mentioning our country, think not, that pleader-like, 1 wish17 LECTURE I. to bias your judgment. Self-love, or na- tionality, which is but an extension of the same sentiment, is only productive of good when it excites emulation; and on this ac- count alone, would I ever advert to it in the cause of science. Nation should vie with nation in promoting human knowledge and happiness. A desire to obtain the respect of others may warrant us in claim- ing our due; but we should freely accord to them that tribute of respect and applause to which they also are entitled. I cannot easily express the gratification I received from reading Cuvier’s Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, because, in addition to the information I derived from them, they enabled me clearly to discern the extent of Mr. Hunter’s views. Neither can I tell the regret I felt that such a book had not been published during the life of Mr. Hunter, that he himself might have compared the opinions deiived from more general and ex- tended observation, with those that had re- sulted from his own peculiar modes of en- quiry and consideration. c18 LECTURE I. In praising Hunter, I by no means wish to disparage Cuvier; on the contrary I ac- knowledge the industry with which he has collected information by reading; and the great additions he has made to the stock of public knowledge relative to the subjects on which he treats. I admire, also, his clear arrangement, and the genius which is dis- played throughout his works. We observe a constant endeavour to discover the series and order of facts ; the variety of means em- ployed for effecting the same purpose; at- tempts to reduce a number of facts to one general principle ; in short, the endeavour to discover the causes and nature of what- ever we observe ; the hope of effecting which, appears to be the most potent in- centive to labour, and the accomplishment its most gratifying reward. To shew that Cuvier has not wrought so hard without some animating motive, I quote his own words. “ Pourquoi tel animal ne se nour- rit-il que de chair, tel autre que de vege- taux ? D’ou celui-ci tire-t-il la finesse de son odorat, ou celle de son ouie? D’ou viens que l’oiseau voit egalment bien a desLECTURE I. 19 distances si differentes ? Quelle est la source de la force prodigieux des muscles des oiseaux ? Cette force comment est elle employee a produire ce mouvement si etonant du vol? Quelle est la cause de l’etendue, et de la variet6 de sa voix ? Tel reptile, pourquoi est-il si engourdie ? Tel ver, comment conserve-t-il la vie long terns aprez etre divise ? Tel zoophyte comment peut on vivre egalment bien quelque partes de son corps que Ton en retranche. Sup- pose-t-on qu’il puisse exister une histoire naturelle sans ces questions, et desmillieurs d’autres semblables ?” Believing that no man will ever labour in the strenuous and unremitting manner that Mr. Hunter did, and to the detriment of his own private interest, without some strong incentive ; I have supposed, that at an early period he conceived those notions of life which were confirmed by his future en- quiries and experiments. He began his ob- servations on the incubated egg, in the year 1 (55, which must either have suggested or corroborated all his opinions with regard to c 220 LECTURE I. the cause of the vital phenomena. He per- ceived that however different in form and far- culty, every creature was nevertheless allied to himself, because it was a living being; and therefore he became solicitous to enquire how the vital processes were carried on in all the varieties of animal, and even vege- table existence. In the progress of science, genius, with light and airy steps, often far precedes judgment, which advances slowly, and either finds or forms a road along which all may proceed with facility and security; but the direction of the course of judgment is often suggested, and its actions are ex- cited and accelerated by the invocations of preceding genius. Whether truth be discovered by that pe- netrating foresight which is characteristic of genius, or ascertained by the more laborious methods of experiment and induction, still, when it is once found, each succeeding observation serves but to convince us of its nature and reality. No one could be more scrupulous in admitting propositions to be proved, than Mr. Hunter; yet he was con-LECTURE I. 21 c 3 vinced that his opinions respecting life were true, by a course of patient and persevering meditation, on all its phenomena, in a man- ner I shall endeavour more fully to point out in the succeeding lectures. Yet these opi- nions, though correspondent to those of the wisest philosophers of ancient times, were so little suited to the modes of thinking of his contemporaries, that it required no small degree of hardihood, in a man of little education, to maintain them, in spite of the apathy or derision with which they were re- ceived by persons of greater general learn- ing. Such, however, is the hardihood that conviction produces. When, however, conclusions are deduced by a course of patient and persevering con- sideration of voluminous and multifarious evidence, it is scarcely possible to detail the causes and processes of thought by which we have been led to them j and this, I doubt not, made oije of the difficul- ties which Mr. Hunter encountered in com- municating his opinions. By investigating the works of nature, we collect facts from22 LECTURE I. which we deduce opinions. On the form- ation and importance of opinions, I have already taken the liberty of expressing my sentiments before to this assembly, to which I now be«: leave to add, that there are many who think clearly, who do not think deeply ; and they have greatly the advan- tage in expressing themselves ; for their thoughts are generally simple and easy of apprehension. Opinions immediately de- duced from any series or assemblage of facts may be called primary opinions, and they become types or representatives of the facts from which they are formed, and, like the facts themselves, admit of assortment, comparison, and inference ; so that from them we deduce ulterior opinions, till at length, by a kind of intellectual calculation, we obtain some general total, which in like manner becomes the representative and co- efficient of all our knowledge, with relation to the subject thus examined and considered. In proportion to the pains we have taken in this algebraical process of the mind, and our assurance of its correctness, so do w c contemplate the conclusion or consum- 11LECTURE I. 23 mation of our labours with satisfaction ; and being unable to display to others the dif- ferent series of facts and opinions, and modes of inference, we express our cer- tainty of the conclusion, by saying, it must be so ; it is absurd to suppose otherwise ; or, as they say Dr. Johnson was accustomed to do, “ I know I’m right, so there’s an end of it.” • s Now these ultimate opinions, for so I may call them, as being the last of a se- ries, become primary and elementary in the display of knowledge. These conclu- sions of thought become principles of sci- ence and of conduct. By the prosecution of thought, we are led to observe the very trunk and roots from which the various ramifications of our knowledge are pro- duced, and the nature of the ground on which the whole is supported, so that we become assured of its security, or admo- nished of its uncertainty. It is then, to certain ultimate opinions, or physiological conclusions of Mr. Hunter, with respect to the vital processes, that I chiefly wish, on c 4LECTURE I. 24 the present occasion, to excite your atten- tion ; and these are highly important, on account of their re-action, and the bias they impart to our opinions in general, and also to our conduct. The study of Nature has been com- pared to the working of an inexhaustible mine, abounding in rich materials j, but which require to be assorted, refined, and wrought up, ere they can be converted to useful purposes. Some dig the crude materials from the mine, others assort and refine them; whilst others again, construct, with the wrought substances, instruments of great utility in the future acquisition of knowledge. Surely, I may be permitted to consider opinions as the instruments- of in- tellect, for it both forms them and employs them in its future operations ; and when also they are well constructed, they illuminate and render intelligible surrounding objects ; but when ill formed, they only obscure and disfigure the face of nature. In adverting then to Mr. Hunter’s Museum, by thus cir- cumscribing my designs, T shall not in the sLECTURE I. 25 least trench upon the province of my brother Professor; for I shall not describe facts, nor detail opinions; I shall not ex- amine the materials, but merely the con- struction and utility of certain instruments which the hand of Hunter either formed or finished. When I first had the honour of address- ing the members of the College in this theatre, I knew it would be expected that I should eulogize Mr. Hunter ; and nothing loth, I declared that he seemed to me to possess that rare combination of intellec- tual powers which qualified him equally to extend the boundaries of knowledge and to establish principles of science and practice. Of his opinions, I said I knew of none that had not been cautiously and legitimately deduced from the facts before him, and though the progress of science might have since invalidated some, yet most of them, horn the same cause, had become more and more firmly established. In proof of the latter part of this proposition, I excited your attention to his opinions respecting26 LECTURE I. life, which the progress of science seems to me to have most perfectly confirmed. The probability of his opinions on this subject is to be inferred from analogy ; their rationality from their adequateness to account for all the vital phaenomena. As Sir H. Davey’s experiments fully prove that electricity may be superadded to, and that it enters into the composition of all those substances we call matter ; I felt satisfied with this establishment of the philosophy of Mr. Hunter’s views, nor thought it necessary to proceed further, but merely added, “ It is not meant to be affirmed that electricity is life. I only mean to argue in favor of Mr. Hunter’s theory, by shewing that a subtile sub- stance of a quickly and powerfully mo- bile nature, seems to pervade every thing, and appears to be the life of the world, an d that therefore it is probable a similar substance pervades organized bo- dies, and is the life of these bodies.” I am concerned, yet obliged to detain you by this recapitulation, because my mean- ing has been either misunderstood or misrepresented.lecture I. 27 Mr. Hunter was the first physiologist who placed in clear array the various vital functions before our view, so as to enable us to judge of their nature and probable cause. He told us that life was a great chemist, and even in a seemingly quiescent state, had the power of 'resisting the operation of external chemical agency, and thereby preventing the decomposition of those bodies in which it resided. Thus seeds may lie buried far beneath the surface of the earth for a great length of time with- out decaying, but being thrown up, they veoetate. Mr. Hunter shewed us that this & chemist, Life, had the power of regulating the temperature of the substances in which it resides. Seeds possessing the principle of life being placed within the influence of the atmosphere, and in contact with mois- ture, produce heat, form sugar to edulcorate the first nutriment of the young plant, and in short, bring about all those phenomena which characterize incipient vegetation. He further shewed us, that Life, by its che- mical processes, could convert a great va- riety of dissimilar substances, into one kindLECTURE I. 28 of generally distributed nutriment, and could also prepare from it a still greater variety of dissimilar substances. Mr. Hun- ter shewed us that Life was also an archi- tect, that it built up a great variety of cu- rious structures or edifices, in which it continued to reside and execute its future functions. No unprejudiced person can, I think, possibly doubt that it is by the active power of Life such effects are pro- duced. Mr. Hunter shewed that the ac- tions of life are various, that in nerves they are rapid, though not so forcible as in mus- cles. By such actions he accounted for the sympathies of remote organs, and the instantaneous effects produced on, and by the brain, from and in the remotest parts of the body. He shewed that the most obvious, and in general most surprizing manifestation of vital activity, which is called irritability, was not necessarily con- nected with a muscular structure ; and when apparently connected with the same structure, was subject to considerable va- riations in its actions. By means of the active powers of life, he also saw how it29 LECTURE I. was possible that fluids should undergo those modifications, that are known to take place, from the affections of the vessels in which they are contained. Having con- vinced himself of these facts, he inferred that Life was a principle, active in all its func- tions, and that by acting in various modes and degrees it produced the diversified phsenomena by which it is characterized. I shall on the present occasion add a few words, to what is contained in my former lectures, to shew the nature and probability of Mr. Hunter’s opinions respecting Life, because I am unwilling to leave any excuse for saying, that they are either unintelligi- ble, or inadmissible. The progress of science, since Mr. Hun- ter’s time, has wonderfully manifested, that the sun-beam when dissected by a prism, is not only separable into seven colorific rays of different refrangibility, producing the iridiscent spectrum ; but also into calorific rays refracted in the greatest degree, or intensity, beyond the red colour,30 LECTURE I. and into rays not calorific, refracted in like manner to the opposite side of the spec- trum beyond the violet colour; and that the calorific and uncalorific rays produce effects similar to those occasioned by the two kinds of electricity ; and thus afforded additional reasons for believing that subtile mobile substances do enter into the com- position of all those bodies which the sun illumines, or its beams can penetrate. Late observations induce the belief, that even light may be incorporated in a latent state with animal substances, and after- wards elicited by a kind of spontaneous separation, by vital actions, or by causes that seem to act mechanically on the sub- stance in which it inheres. * All the late discoveries in science seem to realize the speculations of ancient philosophers, and shew that all the changes and motions which occur in surrounding bodies, as well as in those which live, are the effect of subtile and invisible principles existing in them, or acting on them. * See Dr. Hulmc’s, and Dr. Macartney’s papers in the Philosophical Transactions.LECTURE I. 31 Mr. Ellis, who with such great industry and intelligence has collated all the scat- tered evidences relative to the production of heat in living bodies, and added so much to the collected knowledge, seems to think that all the phenomena of the vari- ations of temperature in them, may be ac- counted for by known chemical processes. Here, however, I must observe, that Mr. Hunter’s opinion of life having the power of regulating temperature was deduced, not only from his experiments related in the Philosophical Transactions, but also from observing, that in certain affections of the stomach, the heat of the body is subject to great vicissitudes, whilst respiration and circulation remain unaltered; and also that parts of the body are subject to similar variations, which appear inexplicable upon any other supposition than that of local nervous excitement or torpor, or some similar affections of the vital powers of the part which undergoes such transitions. His views with respect to this subject are con- firmed by the late experiments of Mr.LECTURE I. 32 Brodie.* As the circulation of the blood will continue in warm as well as in cold blooded animals without the influence of the brain, provided respiration be artificially kept up in the former by means of a pair of bellows, Mr. Brodie severed the connection of the brain from the top of the medulla spinalis, which in effect instantly kills the animal, and thereby prevents further suffering in the experiment, and then maintained ar- tificial respiration, and consequent cir- culation, for more than two hours. Yet under these circumstances the body cooled as rapidly and regularly as that of another animal in whom respiration and circu- lation ceased upon the division of the medulla spinalis. This experiment shews that the change produced by respiration on the blood is not of itself alone sufficient to maintain the ordinary temperature of ani- mals. Chemical science has not yet explain- ed how the intense heat and light are pro- duced, which are occasioned by the transit * Philosophical Transactions, 1811. Cromian Lecture.LECTURE I. 33 of electricity through the air. That the powers of life regulate electrical actions is evident ; and may they not in this manner produce some of those variations of tem- perature to which I have just referred? But admitting that the refined operations of modern chemistry should actually shew us the means by which the variations of temperature are in every instance pro- duced, they would not explain the cause of those actions by which such means are rendered efficient; which actions constitute the essential difference between living and dead bodies. Neither would chemical science, by ex- plaining the regulation of temperature, un- fold the cause of the other vital phceno- mena; for instance, the prevention of pu- trefaction and irritability. The heat of in- cubation would hurry on the putrefaction of a dead egg, but the white and yolk of a living one, which we cannot suppose to be organized, do not putrify, though they un- dergo changes subservient to the nutrition oi the young animal they are designed to D34. LECTURE I. support. Doctor Macartney, who has of late particularly attended to this subject, gives it as his opinion, “ that when fluids change their composition, it is often by some vital action in themselves, instead of a fermenta- tive process, or the mechanical operation of solids upon them, as is commonly sup- posed.”* Were irritability shewn to be an electrical phenomenon, and I consider it al- ready demonstrated that they are electri- cal actions which cause the various combi- nations and decompositions so constantly occurring in all parts of living bodies, and upon which their formation and functions so greatly depend; yet the consideration of the vital phenomena proves that such electrical operations are under the influence and control of the vital powers. I am aware that there is an obscurity in my first lectures, arising from my not explicitly de- claring my sentiments ; which did not then appear necessary, and even now may per- haps be deemed presumptuous and impro- per. In my opinion experimental science * See article Incubation, in Dr. Rees’s Encyclo- paedia.LECTURE T. 35 has not as yet informed us of more than reason has suggested, from the consider- ation of the general phenomena of nature; which is, that the motions and changes oc- curring in surrounding bodies, and in our own, are the results of some subtile sub- stance or substances, which enters into their composition, or acts upon them. But if science were eventually to demon- strate that heat, light, and electricity are different things, that there are various kinds of subtile substances, then I should be obliged to suppose that there was also a subtile substance belonging to living bodies, a principle of life, which had the amazing power of kindling and controlling the de- structive element of fire, and regulating the actions of that still moresudden andpowerful agent, electricity. Neither by so doing should I transgress the rules of philosophy ; for in suggesting a theory, it should not only be probable, but adequate to explain all the phenomena. I am aware, however, that there may be some contemplative and unprejudiced men, who, perhaps a little n 2LECTURE L 36 elated by the progress of science, may think me hasty, and that I had better have waited to see what her ample page might have eventually unfolded. To them I bow with respect, and assure them, that I would have done so, had the subject been merely an abstract question in Physiology. Few however are they who contemplate the nature of life “ in the calm lights of mild Philosophy nor do I affect to in- clude myself among that very small num- ber. In becoming the advocate of Mr. Hunter’s Theory of Life, I knew I should irritate what many might consider as a very formidable Party. Formidable, because some of them possess extensive information, are subtle disputants, have words at will to make the worse appear the better argu- ment, and are writers even by profession. Yet I feared them not, because I knew, that words do not make, but merely adorn arguments. Nevertheless I thought it pru- dent to entrench my subject behind a little37 LECTURE I. d 3 i fortification made of the most approved rules of reasoning; and neither this out- work, nor the subject itself, has even been assailed. Yet assertions have been made which I am concerned to feel it an indis- pensable duty publicly to answer in this place. I shall include all the individuals who compose this party, under a general denomination, which I think appropriate to them, and call them the Modern Sceptics. First then, I am instructed, that I ought to consider life to be a property of certain struc- tures, as gravitation and elasticity are said to be properties of matter. With this injunc- tion, however, I cannot comply,because I can only think or consider in one way. I must deduce rational inferences from the facts belonging to any subject, or from analogies existing between that subject and others better understood. Now there is no ana- logy between the permanent and inva- riable properties of gravitation and elas- ticity, and the occasional and variable pro- perties of life. Therefore, if I judge from analogy, I must think as I have hithertoLECTURE I. 38 done, that life is more like electricity or magnetism, because its operations are occa- sional ; it may vary in degree, and admits of being annulled or abstracted, without evi- dent difference in the subject to which it has belonged. My preceptors, suddenly shifting their ground, call upon me to con- sider life as an effect resulting from the combined action of certain structures. I own I am not disposed to follow such leaders, yet if I do, I discover that they wish me to consider life to be nothino-; o ' which I take to be the plain English of the Physiology contained in some late French publications relating to this subject. When Sir Isaac Newton explained the laws of attraction, and of the motion of those substances we call matter ; though he wished only to announce facts, without at- tempting to account for them, though re- luctant to hypothesis, he afterwards felt obliged to suppose that there might be an aether forming a bond of connection and reciprocal action between their distant mas- ses and molecules. In the anatomical lec-39 LECTURE I. d 4 tures which I have had the honor of deliver- ing in this theatre, when speaking of the ultimate fibres of the body, I observed that they varied in the properties of rigidity, pli- ability, strength, and elasticity; and that such properties could not be considered to be dependent on the quantity of matter contained in the fibres, which would be estimable by weight, to which such pro- perties bear no proportionate relation ; and consequently, that these properties must be attributed to certain powers of attrac- tion and repulsion operating in various modes and degrees, between the atoms of which such fibres are composed. How- ever minute the atoms may be which com- pose those visible and tangible substances we call matter, Sir Humphry Davey’s ex- periments shew, that each atom is sur- rounded by electric substances possessing powers of attraction and repulsion ; and which substances are not only capable of acting upon the integral parts of bodies, but also upon the largest masses of matter. These electric substances produce decom- position and recombination, and by suchLECTURE I. 40 means destroy the mechanical properties which had before obtained. Thus we see the toughest wood slowly decay, or sud- denly consumed by fire. So numerous are the phenomena in na- ture, that suggest and enforce the belief that subtile substances may and do pervade others more gross and inert, and produce effects in and upon them; that no surprize can be excited upon finding that contem- plative men have in all ages adopted and inculcated this opinion. Yet it was not till of late years, by observing the phseno- mena of electricity and magnetism, that de- cisive evidences of this proposition were ob- tained. In considering these subjects, we observe the utmost boundaries of human knowledge, for all our information must be derived from our senses, which can ne- ver give us any cognizance of the atoms that compose surrounding bodies. Yet this horizon of our views has been always dis- tinctly seen by long-sighted observers ; and advanced as we are in knowledge, we can see no further. Persons of different cha- /LECTURE J. 41 vacters of mind have thought, and may think differently ; for neither can confute the other. One party, considering the more gradual and rapid changes which take place in surrounding bodies, and all the phaeno- mena of motion and of rest, as effects of some subtile, invisible substance or sub- stances pervading all nature, whilst the other may attribute them to inherent pro- pensities in the atoms themselves. i I have led you thus far, Gentlemen, to shew you the rock on which the ancient fortress of scepticism stands erected, and it is evidently so unimpregnable that it has been a secure retreat for ages, and may still continue to be so. Whilst its tenants keep within their own territories, or even de- mean themselves peaceably abroad, I, for one, would never attempt to molest them, nor prevent them from the full enjoyment of their native apathy and inactivity of mind. But when they make excursions to annoy their neighbours, and in disguise too, it seems necessary to unmask them, and send them home again.LECTURE 1. 4& If, however, those professed sceptics, whom I have incorporated under the title of Moderns, really suppose that they have no opinion on certain subjects, they deceive themselves ; for by repeatedly thinking that there may be nothing which is not an object of sense, they at last bring themselves to believe that there is nothing, which is a positive opinion, and also a creed found to have various conveniences. Else whence arises their zeal to make proselytes and to refute the opinions of others, who, perceiv- ing the deficiencies and fallibility of our senses, believe that there are many things far more demonstrable to reason than to sight. / Mr. Hunter’s opinions may be denied, but cannot be refuted. It is, however, easier to maintain a proposition diametri- cally opposite to truth, than one originating in any intermediate degree of error. Those, therefore, who attempt to account for the vital phenomena upon any other suppo- sition than the one I have had the honor of advocating in your presence, would lead usLECTURE I. 43 into such a maze of absurdity, that reason and common sense forbid us to follow them. Now, in applying the philosophical opi- nions of the wisest men to account for the functions of life, according to the views which Mr. Hunter had taken ol that sub- ject, I have been charged with imagining causes of which Physiologists are not com- petent judges. It has been said, this is not on the record, nor before this court. You know, Gentlemen, that the plea of the incompetency of the Court, is often urged when a party suspects a verdict may be given against them. If however, Physio- logists be not competent judges of this cause, no writ of certiorari to any other tribunal, can, I am convinced, with pro- priety be granted. I cannot but smile, when I hear or read of the functions of life being the effect of the vital forces ; because the expression seems to me the very ne plus ultra of philosophical caution. So flimsy a veil is drawn before the subject, as not to conceal any thing; for every one is con-LECTURE I. 44 vinced that nothing can exert no force, and consequently that these forces must either be the attributes of the atoms which com- pose an organized body, or of some subtile and invisible substance superadded to, and inherent in it. It has been said that Comparative Ana- tomy contradicts Mr. Hunter’s opinions respecting life, for where there is no organ, there is no function. If Nature did not design an animal to see, no eye is con- structed ; but how the want of an organ can affect the general question of what life may be, I am too dull-sighted to discover. It will be shewn, and I think it must be admitted, that life is an organ builder, as well as a performer on the instruments it constructs. That organization alone does not produce the functions which belong to life, must, I think, also be granted. A man may sleep with his eyes open, and his friend stand before him with a light j yet the organization of the retina does not enable the sleeper to perceive the image of his friend, though vividly depicted on itsLECTURE I. 45 surface. Food may also be received into the stomach, and the circulation in that organ go on as usual, yet its organization does not cause digestion, unless vital actions regulate those electrical operations upon which the preparation of the food-dissolving juices of that organ depend. On the con- trary, I may observe, that Comparative Anatomy informs us, the same vital pro- cesses of the prevention of decomposition, regulation of temperature, action, assimi- lation and growth are effected in structures extremely diversified: and further, that observations on disease demonstrate the perverted actions of the same structures to produce a great variety of effects, which is a proof that the actions of life do not de- pend merely on organization. I will not condescend to particularize or parry the absurd attempts that have been made to ridicule Mr. Hunter’s Theory of Life. I will only enquire why we are to be prohibited from thinking, if we conform to the most approved rules of ratiocination ?46 LECTURE I. Why these sceptics try to ridicule what they cannot refute ? and whence arises the irritability they have displayed ? The na- ture of this kind of irritability is, indeed, well known to Physiologists, it is but the common consequence of debility when ex- cited. But what is the exciting cause, what provocation has been given to them ? It must be as I surmised ; they have opi- nions and are irritated at any thing contra- dictory which they cannot oppugn. The very term of superaddition is discordant to their ears ; the supposition that there may be any thing which is ' not an object of sense, or actual demonstration, torments them ; they themselves perceive, that the superaddition of life to structure may, in- deed, warrant the supposition of a substance having the properties of perception and volition being superadded to life; and that there may be “ more things in heaven and earth, than they in their philosophy dreamt of.” Should such opinions gain ground, the privileges of scepticism seem endan- gered ; their proselytes may no longer re-LECTURE L 47 oeive with perfect confidence the assuianco of philosophical liberty, the assurance that, because they are sensitive and rational creatures, true philosophy, therefore, con- sists in gratifying their senses, and acting as their reason dictates, for their own ad- vantage, independently of all other consi- derations. Wherefore do they tell us, that we know not why a muscle acts, or a nerve feels, and that both are properties of organization ? Is it not because they wish to persuade others, as perhaps they may have brought themselves to believe, “ that when the brains are out, the man is dead.” Yet surely, it does not necessarily follow, that perceptivity and consciousness are annulled, because those actions have ceased by which they have hitherto been affected or manifested. I have heard it said that I was wrong in bringing forward a metaphysical subject before this assembly; yet no one can, I think, account Mr. Hunter’s theory of life to be metaphysical; for we infer no more than we do with respect to electricity, that 8LECTURE I. 4-8 it is equally probable there is an electric fluid and a vital principle. Permit me to repeat, that I excited your attention to the consideration of this subject, not only be- cause it affords a strong proof of Mr. Hun- ter’s genius and reflection, but because I felt assured, that without understanding his opinions respecting life, no one can understand his general Physiology, or that Pathology which it was my principal duty and desire afterwards to explain. He seems to me to have written under a per- suasion that others knew what he did re- specting the vital functions, and had thought as he had done, and his merits as a Physiologist, had therefore been less generally perceived from the want of this previous information and reflection. What Mr. Hunter thought about sen- sation I know not; what I think, I willingly declare, which is, that it can be neither the result of organization, nor an affection of mere life. In reasoning on the motions of the matter which surrounds us, and also of that of which we are composed, we must49 LECTURE I. grant either that the atoms are motive, or that they are impelled to move. So also in ' reasoning with respect to sensation, if the atoms be not sentient, it is impossible to suppose that sensation can result from the arrangement or motion of insensible atoms. If to think and act in this manner be considered as an error, I must be shewn that it is one, before I can alter either my opinions or conduct. Till then, I shall glory in entertaining the same opinions as Pythagoras, Plato, Socrates, and a host of others whom I need not mention, have done. It will be my boast and future endeavour, to shew by Physi- ological arguments, that in this instance also, what has been perceived by the pene- trating eye of intellect, on a distant and general observation, becomes more and more apparent on a close and accurate examination of the subject. I say, it will be my boast, because I know that t e opinions I allude to are productive of nothing but good to humanity, individuallyLECTURE I. 50 and collectively. I admit, that the belief that man is a machine, does not tend to alter his natural and established motions, and consequently, that there have been many good and moral sceptics. But I also know, that the good dispositions will want that excitement and energy which the op- posite sentiments produce, whilst the bad will be left without control. It is equally apparent that the belief of the distinct and independent nature of mind, incites us to act rightly from principle ; to relieve dis- tress, to repel aggression, and defend those who are incapable of protecting them- selves; to practise and extol whatever is virtuous, excellent, and honourable; to shun and condemn whatever is vicious and base; regardless also of our own personal feelings and interests, when put in compe- tition with our duty. We all seek for truth, and on her ap- proach, and in her presence, are ready to sa- crifice, without hesitation or reluctance, our most favorite opinions ; — but to exchange opinions for other opinions, as in this case IOLECTURE I. 51 seems required of us, when the barter is so disadvantageous, would be the highest absuidity. We should give up that which is in evei y respect, and in the greatest degree, useful and dignifying, and what expeiience has proved to be durable, for that which is pernicious and derogatory, and which evidently cannot last; for the specimens presented to us are composed of such flimsy and ill-connected materials, that they will not bear even common handling and examination. Whoever considers the operations of in- tellect, will I think perceive, that when conviction is not forced upon the mind, by something resembling mathematical de- monstration, we form our own opinions. We think as we have been instructed to think, or as those do with whom we as- sociate. Thoughts become concatenated, and by repetition habitual and established. !here.Is a str<>ngly imitative or gregarious disposition, even in intellect; most people think as well as act with a party, and E 2LECTURE 1. 52 hence results the good or evil derived from association, lhat in France} in a nation where the writings both ol its philosophers and wits have greatly contributed to demo- ralize the people, 1 do not therefore wonder that those of their anatomists and physio- logists should represent the subject of their studies in a manner conformable to what is esteemed most philosophical or clever. But that in England, the chief excellence ol whose inhabitants is, that they are a think- ing people, who consider the probable ends of°conduct from its beginning ; that in this country, particularly after so arduous an ex- amination, and so rational an explanation of the vital phaenomena have been presented to us by Mr. Hunter, the mere opinions of some French anatomists, with respect to the nature of life, should be extracted from their general writings, translated, and extolled, cannot, I think, but excite the surprize and indignation ol any one fully apprized of their pernicious tendency. The education and course ol lite ol me- dical men tend to make them sober-minded,LECTURE T. 53 moral, and benevolent; and their profes- sional avocations equally require, that they should possess such characters and dispo- sitions. On no other terms can they be admitted with confidence into the bosoms of those families which may require their medical aid. Whoever therefore inculcates opinions tending to subvert morality, be- nevolence, and the social interests of man- kind, deserves the severest reprobation from every member of our profession, because his conduct must bring it into distrust with the public. If what I said in the introductory Lec- tures has irritated the party of Sceptics, what I now say, may anger them still more. But I fear them not; they can only shoot at me with the shafts of ridicule, or spit at me the venom of their malice; both of which modes of assault I actually laugh at; for the experiment has been tried, and I know, that though these things may tickle, they can never annoy me. To ex- press my opinions on this subject a little technically, I may say, such means have no e 3LECTURE I. 54 effect upon sound or naturally defended surfaces ; some point must be exposed, or morbidly susceptible, ere they can occasion either pain or irritation. If, however the Sceptics had even the power to injure me, still I should not fear them; because I place between us the undisguised truth, which they can neither conquer nor con- front. For truth possesses a power which poets have represented by symbols ; like the jEgis of Minerva, or the spear of Ithuriel, it has the power, not only of protecting and maintaining what is right, but of revealing, abashing, and appalling, what is wrong.( 55 ) LECTURE II. The propensity to observe and compare surrounding objects, seems natural to man. We find even children pleased with examin- ing and assorting stones, spars, metals, and other specimens of mineralogy; still more gratified with those beautiful objects, flowers; and even in a greater degree with moving beings, which, on that account, claim a kind of alliance with themselves. Yet so diversified are the subjects of nature, in each of these departments, that it requires the constant application of any individual to render himself a distinguished character either as a mineralogist, a botanist, or a zoologist. Linneus, whose knowledge of natural history was so extensive and exact, perceived the necessity of some system of mnemonics, by which we might remember and survey the whole, tie therefore formed an arbitrary arrangement of these subjects, and chiefly from their external characters. e 4 \LECTURE II. <56 The advantages resulting from this plan were striking. It was perceived how we could thus learn parts in detail, and also con- template the extreme diversity and extent of the system of nature ; as well as how we might arrange any additional knowledge that was obtained, so as to make it a part of one orderly whole. The minds of men seem to have been fascinated by the method which Linneus had adopted ; for it was applied to subjects where no artificial memory was required. Even diseases were thus arranged ; and the attention being directed to their exter- nal characters, it was taken from its true object, which should be to enquire into their intrinsic nature. This is a striking though not singular Instance, shewing, that even grave and learned men, reputed phi- losophers, have a propensity, like sheep or like school boys, inconsiderately to fol- low the leader. That the arrangement of Linneus is un- natural, and unsuitable to the purposes of57 LECTURE II. Comparative Anatomy, is evident; but we need not defame the memory of so great a contributor to general improvement, by sup- posing that he was ignorant of the advan- tages and disadvantages of his own scheme, particularly as he has himself so frequently acknowledged the latter. Though he thought it right to arrange the subjects arbitrarily, and chiefly by their external characters, because, those but little informed could then co-operate with the more erudite, he must have known that he violated the arrange- ment of nature ; for even with respect to plants, he separated the individuals of their families, and placed them apart amongst strangers with which they had no na- tural connexion. Of his twelve botanic Classes, there are but two which have a claim to be considered natural; and even in these, it is not unexceptionable. I al- lude to the classes Tetradynamia and Syn- genesia. Surely too, Linneus must have peiceived that he committed still greater outrages against natural order in the animal kingdom. I would never advise my young .friends, to endeavour to raise their own 1258 LECTURE 11. reputation, by attempting to depress that of another ; for general observation spee- dily detects, what each has done for the promotion of science ; and their respective merits are impartially appreciated by the public ; therefore the attempt to underva- lue another, becomes an offence against public opinion, and at the same time, « shews a most pitiful ambition in him that uses it.” Mr. Hunter knew nothing about sys- tems ; when he met with an animal he had never dissected, he cared but little by what name it was called, to what family it be- longed, with what others it was associated, either by natural or artificial ties. He chiefly wished to know, how its food was digested; how its blood circulated; how it respited; what were its feelings, instincts, and habits ; how it secured or defended it- self from injury ; how the multiplication ot its species was effected and insured. ^ et, by noting the facts relative to these sub- jects, it surely must be interesting to ob- serve, how much his arrangement and ex-LECTURE II. 59 liibition of structures correspond to those lately displayed in systematic works ; in which also will be found an arrangement of the animal kingdom, more suited to the purposes of Comparative Anatomy, than that of Linn6us. In asserting the claims of Mr. Hunter, I should not omit to mention that he was a very candid man, and freely divulged whatever he knew or thought, as far as his powers of communication enabled him. His biographer says, “ his disposition was candid and free from reserve, even to a fault; for it sometimes made him appear harsh.” Doctor Hunter, in his Lectures, frequently mentioned his brother’s opinions on different physiological subjects. Mr. Hunter himself began to give lectures in the year 1770. Since the year 1785, the preparations in the Museum have been arranged as they now are, and pub- licly exhibited. That Mr. Hunter’s facts and opinions respecting physiology in general, have gradually become known to the nations on the continent, have been60 LECTURE IE adopted and incorporated with their know- ledge of that science, is to me very mani- fest. I mention only one instance in evi- dence of this proposition. In some late foreign systems of Physiology, the nerves are called organs of calorification ; though without adequate reasons being assigned for so novel a denomination. That his facts and opinions, relative to the comparative structure and functions of animals, should have travelled in like manner, and met with a similar reception, does not seem impro- bable. Both professor Camper and Blu- menbach were in London, and were, as I believe, well acquainted with Mr. Hunter’s labours. Such were the circumstances that promoted the diffusion of Mr. Hunter’s dis- coveries and opinions. No one could be more fully aware of the uncertainty of knowledge than he was; and this occa- sioned his tardiness in publishing either his discoveries or opinions; which may have given a seeming priority to the works of others, and prevented the knowledge that flowed from him, from being traced to its proper source by the public in general.LECTURE II. 61 On the contrary, however, I cannot but suspect, that the great illumination which Comparative Anatomy and Physiology have of late received on the continent, has in a considerable degree resulted from reflected light, originally emanating from materials which Mr. Hunter brought together, and from his brilliant physiological discoveries. In advocating the cause of Mr. Hunter as a comparative anatomist and physiolo- gist, all I can do is to tell when I think he first ascertained certain facts, or drew cer- tain conclusions. Yet I know it is diffi- cult to prove these propositions, and as I have said I shall be often obliged to refer to his writings, in 1776, to shew the extent of his information and views at that time. If, however, I fail to prove his title to pri- ority of discovery, or opinion ; still I feel persuaded that what I shall say of him will not be deficient in interest, for I can- not suppose any one will believe, that the unlettered John Hunter borrowed his evi- * Lecture I, page 12.62 LECTURE II. dently original opinions; or that the works of his own hands were copied from those of others. If others preceded him, he will still appear like Ferguson the astro- nomer ; who, whilst a shepherd’s boy, drew accurate charts of the Heavens, knew the course of the planets, was acquainted with the nature and application of the mecha- nical powers, constructed various time- keepers, planned and executed sun dials in different aspects for his neighbours; and when at length his fame attracted the notice of the surrounding gentrjr, and a subscription was raised to send him to Edinburgh, that such rare talents might not remain uncultivated; he was, as he said, surprized to learn that all he knew and much more, had been already known. Both instances will serve to shew the extent of knowledge which rarely-gifted individuals are capable of acquiring by their own observation, ingenuity, industry, and reflection. In the first department of his Museum, Mr. Hunter displays the firm and rigidLECTURE II. 63 parts of vegetables and animals; the sub- stances or joints which connect them ; and the powers which move them; as if he had thought it proper to define what living beings were, before he proceeded to shew how they were formed, and what processes were carried on in them. Mr. Hunter thought that there was a principle of life in vegetables as well as in animals, and noted the identity of the vital processes in both. He adverted also to the simi- larity of their morbid processes ; to the thickening of the leaves in vegetables, from the irritation of insects; and the growth of excrescences from the same cause. How extremely beautiful is the nest formed by the increased, but not un- healthy actions of life, for the young of the Cynips Rosas (Linn.) ? He observed how exactly correspondent to the processes of animal life is the exfoliation of the dead leaf in the autumn. If the leaf and stem equally and simultaneously perish ; if a branch suddenly wither, the leaves tena- ciously adhere by cohesive attraction ; the detachment of the dead from the living64. LECTURE II. parts being apparently the consequence ot‘ vital actions in the latter. There is one experiment of Mr. Hunter’s, I may men- tion, because it displays the reflective cha- racter of his mind, and the persevering industry with which he prosecuted every subject that excited his attention. Hav- ing set beans in a tub filled with earth, which had perforated apertures in various directions ; he contrived mechanism to keep it constantly revolving round an axis; to shew that the ordinary operation of gra- vitation had no effect in producing the ex- tremely varied course which the young plants took in order to arrive at the surface. Specimens of some plants, parts of which undergo sudden motions, stand first among the preparations in the Museum. Re- specting this subject Mr. Hunter observes in his MS. in 1776, “ All plants are not endowed with evident motions, yet in some, such motions occur in parts of them, and apparently from the application of particular stimuli, as the rising and setting of the sun, &c. Some also are affected by touch, so asLECTURE II. ()5 immediately to be put in motion by it. Of the nature of the organization subservient to these motions, we are ignorant. We know not whether they may arise from organs formed purposely to produce them, or from all the neighbouring parts being joined in consent to occasion this effect. It seems probable, however, that the power is ana- logous to the irritability of muscles.” Next are exhibited the nutritive fluids both of vegetables and animals, and also the fatty substance which makes so consi- derable a part of the body in the latter class, because all their different structures must be formed from these nutritive materials. The nutritive fluids, or blood of animals, and the sap of some vegetables spontaneously coa- gulate; but in other vegetables, the addition of acetate of lead is necessary to produce coagulation. The nutritive fluid, or blood of insects, and the lower kinds of animals, is shewn to be colourless, with the ex- ception of that of some worms which have red blood; and that in reptiles and fish, the red colour which is so generally ^on-LECTURE II. 66 sidered as characteristic of that fluid begins to be added. Though blood is so subtile a fluid as to be capable of permeating the minutest vessels of the body, yet that part which spontaneously coagulates, becomes very firm, tough, and unsoluble; often also assuming a fibrous appearance. From the exact similarity of these fibres to those of which muscles are chiefly composed, which Mr. Hunter has taken great pains to exhibit in preparations you will observe in the Museum, he inferred their identity ; an in- ference which modern chemistry has since established. With respect to animals, Mr. Hunter observes in M. S. 1776, “ In the more imperfect animals, it is very probable that there are no fixed parts, but that all parts are irritable and have motion, like the urinary bladder or an intestine. As animals become complicated, and have various motions, especially the progressive, then such motions are more divided or par- tial ; for which purpose it is necessary there should be substances whose firmness andLECTURE II. Gr/ structure, and mode of connection, should divide and determine the motions to parti- cular parts. These structures are differently placed in different animals. In the earth- worm, caterpillar, and nereis, the firm structure is the skin, which is divided into rings, all of which have motion on each other, and into these are muscles inserted, so that a variety of particular motions is produced. In insects, spiders, and lobsters, whose firm parts are more complicated and answer a greater variety of purposes, we find the fixed parts still more dense. In the two former they are of a horny, and in the latter of a calcareous nature. These parts also make a covering for the animal, but there are processes of them going deep for the attachment of muscles. In tor- toises, lizards, snakes, &c. though they have firm, external coverings, yet there is an in- ternal apparatus for motion, which is prin- cipally bone. In the more perfect animals, external firm parts are rarely found. They have an internal osseous skeleton, so that the muscles and their attachments are re- versed ; and thus we find them arranged f 2LECTURE II. 68 in the fish, fowl, and quadruped.” Mr. Hunter adds, “ shell is a substance made use of in the animal kingdom, chiefly as a defence against accidents, serving the purpose of a retreat !” This extract convinces me that there is scarcely any thing in Professor Cuvier’s Lectures, relative to the construction of ani- mals, with which Mr. Hunter was unac- quainted ; and it must be interesting to ob- serve the correspondent views which these highly informed men have taken of the same subjects. As Mr. Hunter’s object was Phy- siology, or an enquiry into the functions of Living Beings, he has not been solicitous to exhibit all the facts relating to their con- struction. Professor Cuvier, has, on the contrary, devoted his first seven Lectures to display the latter subject, in so ample and satisfactory a manner, as cannot, I think, fail to gratify the reader. Some animals are soft and undefended ; some inhabit shells ; some may be said to have an external articu- lated skeleton, serving also as a defence; and the rest an internal skeleton. He re-69 LECTURE II. F 3 marks, it is curious, that insects, having an external articulated skeleton, possess such a combination of motive powers, that some of them walk, run, leap, swim, and fly with as much facility, as beasts, birds, and fish, exercise one or more of these faculties. Professor Cuvier thinks that they are indebt- ed for these advantages, to the numerous articulations which their case or skeleton possesses. It might strike a person who had not considered the subject, that there were animals possessing both an internal and ex- ternal skeleton, as those of the reptile tribe* The muscles of insects, however, act upon the external case, which is therefore similar to the skeleton. The shells of tortoises are to be considered merely as armour, as defences against injuries, which the animals have neither the power to oppose, nor agi- lity to avoid. Even amongst the higher order of quadrupeds, some wear this kind of armour, as the rhinoceros ; and many have such thick hides, as protect their pos- sessors from trivial injuries ; hides like the leathern doublet of Hudibras, which “ Though not ball, was cudgel proof.”LECTURE II. 70 In the construction of animals, we find na- ture proceeding upon an uniform plan, and by variation of the same means, contriving to produce beings extremely diversified in form and faculty. It has been observed that Comparative Anatomy furnishes abundant facts to the natural theologian, shewing that intelligence must have operated in the con- struction of living beings, by the evidence it affords of design, and of the adaptation of means to ends. This observation is however more perfectly verified by human, than by Comparative Anatomy ; for so well is man acquainted with his own wants and desires, and with the structure of the human body, that he must be a dull, inconsiderate, or perverse character, who can contemplate the organs and structures which compose it, without a feeling of admiration. The very reverse however happens in Compa- rative Anatomy. Many of the animals we dissect, are, when living, concealed from our view ; they are hid beneath the surface of the earth, or the waters) they fly aloft in the air ; or secrete themselves in the re- cesses of the forest; so that we have little *71 LECTURE If. acquaintance with their habits, 01 peculiar wants and desires. We cannot, therefore, so well perceive the reasons of those varieties of formation we discover, nor judge of their adaptation to the peculiar exigencies of the being that possesses them. In many instances also the organization is extremely obscure, and in some it is probable that it never can be developed. There are minute animals, the motions of which are extremely vivacious, and in which all the processes of life are carried on with great celerity and vigour, yet no organiza- tion can be detected in them, even by the aid of the microscope. We are, therefore, obliged to conclude either, that there may be organization which is wholly undiscern- ible; or that life can execute its functions unconnected with those kinds of organiza- tion which we observe in animals in general. Whatever may be the structure of animals, we cannot however but perceive, that each possesses means of procuring sustenance adequate to its wants; so as to ensure its perfection of health and growth, and powers f 472 LECTURE II. to continue its species, which seems to be the consummation of animal existence. Neither can we avoid remarking, how ad- mirably the perceptions and faculties of ani- mals are adapted to the situation which they occupy in the graduated scale of existence. As far also as we can discern, we perceive the same evidences of design and admirable contrivance; and the facts we learn from the examination of the structure and func- tions of living beings in general, may indeed be said, “ to come more home to every man’s business and bosom,” than any we collect from the study of Nature in other departments of science. You find displayed in the beginning of the Museum, many forms of the moving powers or muscles ; and also the uses of elastic ligament are shewn, which some- times produces motion, and sometimes re- tains parts in certain positions, by its me- chanical properties, without the expense of muscular exertions. It is this substance which keeps open the valves of shells and the claws of lobsters, so that no power isLECTURE II. 73 exerted but in closing them ; it is this sub- stance also which supports the head ol ani- mals, without muscular effort, whilst they are grazing. I remind you, gentlemen, that Mr. Hunter, who did not consider life to be dependent on organization, was I believe the first who clearly ascertained and publicly announced the fact, that muscles, after contracting to their utmost, might gradually acquire a new sphere of contraction. This fact was first ascertained bv the following case, which I relate, because 1 believe it is not generally known. A lady who had both knee pans broken and greatly retracted, came to Lon- don many years after this accident, and consulted Mr. Hunter on her case. Almost every other surgeon would have considered it hopeless. He, however, who was con- stantly thinking about the reparative pro- cesses, began to enquire whether the long union which had taken place between the distant portions of the bone was of a liga- mentous and unyielding nature. To ascer- tain this point, he endeavoured to force the upper portion still higher, and found that,7* LECTURE II. the lower followed it, and that a motion of the leg was thus produced. The muscles were however unable to move the retracted part of the patella, because they had already withdrawn it to the utmost extent of their original power. Mr. Hunter saw no reason why muscles, thus circumstanced, might not acquire a new sphere of contraction, yet he saw no mode by which they were likely to do so, except through the influence of the will of the patient; and to persuade a per- son to will what must appear to them an impossibility, was the chief difficulty he had to encounter in his endeavour to ascertain the proposed subject of enquiry. He per- suaded his patient to sit on a table, and suffer her legs to swing backwards and for- wards. This they did in the same manner and from the same causes that a pendulum does. She could indeed retract the limbs further under the table than their pendu- lous motion would carry them, by the agency of their flexor muscles, but she could neither check their motion in this di- rection, nor prolong it in the opposite one, by any exertion of the extensors. Mr. Hunter urged the patient to sit at intervals75 lecture II. for an hour or more a day, wishing the ex- ertion of such powers might take place ; and she promised to comply with his re- quest. After a time, she became persuaded she had in a degree acquired her object, and thus encouraged, her will became more energetic, and the muscles more obedient to its mandates : till it was evident to others that she could check the receding motion of her limbs, and prolong the advancing one. Mr. Hunter then attached weights to her feet, to increase the demand for muscu- lar effort, and thus, by degrees, did the pa- tient acquire the power of extending the legs on the thighs, and the consequent ability to stand and walk. That muscles may acquire a new sphere of contraction, was afterwards fully proved by other cases; and Mr. Hunter has put up in his collection of anatomical facts, illustrative of the vital functions, the biceps muscle of both arms of the same subject; the one, which is of its natural length, measures eleven inches ; the other, which has become contracted in consequence of the arm being broken, and the bones overlapping, measures only five 6\ 76 LECTURE II. inches. Nevertheless, in this state, the bones having become firmly united, the shortened muscle acquired a new sphere of contraction. The particulars of this last case are recorded by Sir Everard Home, in a Cromian lecture, published in the Phi* losophical Transactions for 1795. Mr. Hunter next displays the anatomical facts relating to the formation of bone, and exhibits specimens of that variety, the black periosteum of the silk fowl of Guinea. He also shews the various kinds of joints and substances by which the bones are con- nected. The formation of shell, and the growth of horns, are likewise exhibited by various preparations. As these subjects have been already considered in this thea- tre, I have no wish to say any thing about them on the present occasion, except in reference to one particular. Every one at all acquainted with the mind of Hunter, must be assured that he could not fail to be much interested with the facts relating to the annual renewal of the stag’s 11LECTURE II. 77 / horns. Those of other animals last for life, and yet the large and curiously-branched horns of the stag, though formed of equally durable materials, are cast off annually, and replaced with a celerity of growth that would scarcely be credited by any Physiologist who was not well acquainted with the fact. Of Mr. Hunter’s obser- vations on this subject I shall speak here- after, at present I only wish to mention that he particularly noticed the fact at that time, not commonly known or attended to, that, if a stag be castrated, the horns, which are shed annually, are not afterwards renew- ed ; so that the animal having lost the male powers, no longer exhibits their external characters. We do not find, however, Mr. Hunter drawing any inference from this fact, for it warrants none other than the want of the beard in man, would do, from a similar cause, provided he also became bald-faced annually. On the contrary how- ever, we find him much excited by ob- serving, that when the sexual character is annulled by age, the appropriate external signs are not only discontinued, but some-78 LECTURE IT. times opposite ones exhibited. He really seems interested in observing, that old women sometimes become bearded, and that the old hen pheasant forms and displays the beautiful plumage of the male bird. In some late works on Physiology, I find it suggested, that the formation of one part or organ, creates a necessity for the forma- tion of another ; and therefore it happens, I presume, according to this mode of rea- soning, that men become bearded and stags wear horns. Yet these writers have not suggested any reason for the occasional ex- hibition of the delusive signs to which I have been referring, and I suspect that the consideration of this subject in general, has been omitted, in drawing such conclusions as I have just referred to. According to Mr. Hunter’s notions of life, those occurrences which denote the sexual character are to be considered as the effects of sympathies existing between remote parts of the body; which, like other instances of sympathy, are liable to79 LECTURE II. occasional failure and considerable variation. That such sympathetic actions are the effect of unknown laws, he could never have doubted; but he thought he per- ceived a spirit and design in these laws very different from those which produce results in dead matter. In the latter the results are immediate and uniform, so that they may be predicted; whilst in the former they sometimes do not take place, and appear more like the effects of option than necessity ; they also are subject to considerable varieties ; neither is their re- sult in many instances immediate ; yet the actions tend to produce some remote effect or good to the individual in which they occur. That such were Mr. Hunter’s ideas of the vital actions may be inferred from his unphilosophical language, which im- putes design to unintelligent agency. Mr. Hunter seems first clearly to have perceived that we could not judge of the vital actions from other subjects, and there- fore that the zoonomia must be made a separate study and pursuit by comparingLECTURE II. 80 the vital processes with one another in the same animal, and in all the varieties of liv- ing beings.*' Under the influence of these notions, we cannot be surprised that he is interested in recording the facts, which seemed to him to shew that when age has annulled the principal sexual powers, their appropriate external evidences are not only discon- tinued, but sometimes those of an opposite character are displayed, f The difference of form and character be- tween the male and female of most animals * If, indeed, all the phaenomeDa of life were pro- duced by the super-addition of a subtile substance, or substances capable of causing chemical composition, decomposition, variations of temperature, and actions, according to the suggestion contained in the first lec- ture, page 35, without being regulated by any other vital energy, but acting in conformity to pre-established laws; still the results are so different from what we observe from the operation of the same causes in mat- ter in general, that the laws of life must be peculiar, and, therefore, require to be made a separate study. f Mr. Hunter’s paper on this subject will be found in the Philosophical Transactions for 1780.81 LECTURE II. is in general considerable and striking, and denoted by circumstances very diversified, but not reducible to any general rules. Yet this difference does not seem a conse- quence of necessity, for there are some spe- cies of animals in which it scarcely can be said to exist, and in others the female is the larger and stronger, partaking more of what we usually deem the masculine cha- racter. That the characteristic signs of either sex are in general deficient, in proportion to the deficiency of the most essential and important of the sexual organs, must be ad- mitted. Yet as the cases denoting this fact in the female, are not common, it may be proper to refer to some of them. Mr. Pott removed the ovaries of a woman which had been protruded from their natural situation into the groins, like hernia in common. The uterus never afterwards menstruated, the breasts wasted, and the body became muscular and robust. Mr. Pears relates the case of a woman born without ovaries m whom the other sexual organs were G82 LECTURE II. * Philosophical Transactions for 1805. formed, though they remained in a dwarf and inefficient state. She never manifested any of the attributes of the feminine cha- racter. She was broad-shouldered, and small round the hips, like a man.* How fond Mr. Hunter was of animals, how closely he observed their form, habits, modes of action, and progression, Sir E. Home has already told us in this theatre. He preserved the skeletons of most of the animals he had dissected, and there are probably 300 specimens in boxes, which he had no room to display, neither is there space enough in this building. That he was an observant and accurate comparative osteologist is also apparent from his last papers in the Philosophical Transactions, containing a commentary on fossil bones, found in caves near Bayreuth, and else- where. Mr. Hunter has, however, exhi- bited and contrasted some of the ske- letons of animals, and preserved specimens of those of rare and curious forms; he alsoLECTURE II. S3 g 2 collected the heads of persons of different nations. Yet still I am aware that the Hunterian Museum may by some be con- sidered as deficient in the department of osteology, and, as has been before observed, the minute examination of the form of animals did not come within the scope of Mr. Hunter’s designs. Having derived much gratification from reading professor Cuvier’s remarks on this subject, and believing that there is much food for meditation even in a ske- leton, I shall put together some observa- tions on the form and mechanism of that of the human subject; for as anatomy is chiefly taught as the ground-work of me- dical and surgical knowledge, such obser- vations are not in general incorporated with systematic treatises on that subject. The head is formed into the bony cavity, which contains the brain, called the cra- nium ; and the face, which i3 the seat of tour of the senses, that are situated nearLECTURE II. 8i the organ of sensation, volition, and other faculties. In proportion to the size and complexity of the brain, with reference to the size of the nervous system, do animals appear to possess various kinds and degrees of perception and intelli- gence. Camper and Hunter, at the same time, attended to the apparently descend- ing series in the construction of the heads of animals. The head of the African does really in some degree, and in some individuals more particularly, approximate in form to that of the monkev ; in the sloping direction of the forehead, the size and depth of the temporal fossa, in the flatness of the nose, the projection of the teeth, and the diminution of the chin. We also observe this approximation in other parts of the African skeleton ; in the length of the loins, and in that of the fore- arm and leg, compared to the arm and thigh; in the flatness of the foot, and pro- jection of the heel. In the head of the monkey we distinguish the same things, but in so aggravated a degree, that we atLECTURE II. 85 once recognize the head of a brute, pos- sessing little cranium and much face, a mere approximation of form to the human head, a mockery, with which, in general, we are more disgusted than pleased. In the quadruped, the forehead is nearly an horizontal continuation of the face, and the jaws, so greatly extended, that the cranium is but little apparent, and the face constitutes the chief part of the head. In the bird and in the fish we observe the same circumstances, but in a much more striking degree. So greatly did these ob- servations interest Sir Joshua Reynolds, that, in his portrait of Mr. Hunter, he has left his portfolio, open at that part where this descending series is sketched. This is the first time, on the present oc- casion, that I have to call your attention to the very curious and problematical con- catenation which exists in all the works of Nature. In the African, we perceive a link connecting the human form with the ex- tremely diversified forms of the brute crea- tion. I cannot forbear to add, that though g 386 LECTURE II. there is an approximation in the form of the African to that of brutes, there is none in his nature; for well educated Africans have displayed great powers of mind. Camper also remarked, that the heads of persons of intellect, were generally charac- terized by a large and prominent forehead . and that in the Greek antique head, the forehead is made to project beyond what is natural, or has been ever observed. It has, I believe, been a question among ar- tists, why we are so fascinated by the sculp- ture of the Greeks. The intellect of the Greeks seems superior to that of most other nations ; their philosophers, poets, orators, and designers, have all left us models difficult to imitate, almost impos- sible to surpass. With a kind of intuitive perception of the to y.aXov of whatever is excellent or beautiful, they formed an ideal perfect head, and have exaggerated those circumstances in which the human head differs from that of a brute; yet with a delicacy that leaves the excess beyond what is natural to man, not readily distin-87 LECTURE II. ouishable. The head of a brute has its © forehead oblique, or declining towards a horizontal line, drawn from the top of the face; and the sides of the forehead con- verge from the orbits, so as to make it narrower at the top than at the bottom. The Greeks made the human forehead advance a little before a perpendicular line, and they raised it to an uncommon height. They made it also diverge from the orbits, so as to be broader above than below. The eyes of animals are placed at the sides of the head, so that they see la- terally, and some even behind them. The human eyes are made to look forwards; whenever they glance to a side, they indi- cate either fear or distrust. The Greeks seem to have paid attention to this point; the eyes are made to look strait forwards, and the outer edge of the orbit is so wrought up, as seemingly to preclude a contrary vision. The eyebrow is a feature peculiar to the human face; and I think it must be regarded chiefly as an organ of expression. In the antique head, this part is finished with much labour and skill. a 488 LECTURE II. The bridge of the nose is also peculiar to the human face; it is represented very prominent, or raised much above the level of the orbits. The Greeks thought it most beautiful when it proceeded in a strait line from the forehead, whilst the Romans preferred it arched. The nostrils are formed as little like a snout as possible ; they are apertures for respiration, and for smelling, in the human subject, and their motions contribute to expression. The orifice of the mouth, though occasionally used for eating, seems chiefly constructed in the hu- man face, for the articulation of our words ; and the motions of the lips are also strongly indicative of our feelings. The Greeks represented the mouth according to these views of the subject. They made it as little like a devouring aperture as possible. They made the orifice of small dimensions ; the lips thin, but muscular and expressive ; and they sometimes even flattened the arch of the jaws in an excessive degree. The chin, which is peculiar to the human countenance, they made to project very considerably, and in the males they iepic-89 LECTURE II. sented it broad. I forbear to say more, be- cause this is a subject rather of taste than of science; yet design all this, effect but this, and you will form the front of Jove himself Doctors Gall and Spurzheim tell us that brutes have a forehead and hind-head, but they want the middle part of the head, which is peculiar to man. Man is a long-headed animal; there is a great ex- tent of brain between the fore and hind parts. The top of his head is arched, and in some individuals, in a peculiar degree, so that the hair falls to either side, and hence results the naturally parted forelock ; and it is there that our new cranioscopists believe they can discover signs indicative of moral sentiments and excellence. Perhaps some spice of vanity may be perceived in Milton’s description of the head of Adam, for it seems to be copied from his own. His fair large front and Eye sublime declared absolute rule ; And hyacinthian locks down from his Parted forelock manly hung, clustering.90 LECTURE U. Doctors Gall and Spurzheim further tell us, that the instincts or propensities of brutes may be judged of from the form of their heads, and assert the same with re- gard to the human subject; which latter assertion does not appear discordant to general observation. For if the human head be more produced in those parts pe- culiar to man, so does its possessor fre- quently appear to have more of the intel- lectual character ; or if in those parts com- mon to him and brutes, so has he more of the propensities in which he participates with animals in general. Even this was observed by the Greeks, who, to use Dr. Spurzheim’s own expression, “ never com- mitted such an absurdity as to put the head of a gladiator on the shoulders of a philo- sopher, or the reverse.” The speculations of these gentlemen ap- pear to me very ingenious, and calculated to unravel some of the intricacies of the human character, as well as to establish a just distinction between the faculties of animals and those of man. The peculiar sLECTURE II. 91 original dispositions and talents which certain individuals possess, must either be ascribed to original qualities of mind or to causes which may produce them. To me, who think it absurd to suppose tliat perception and volition are the result of organization, or an affection of mere life, and consequently who believe them to be properties of something distinct, it is even pleasing to perceive how any thing essentially perceptive and possessing con- sciousness and volition as the natural and seemingly necessary adjuncts of perception may be variously affected, and consequently prone to certain actions. To me, the plurality of our senses has always appeared a strong argument for the individuality of mind. I see, I hear, I am variously affected. I am more delighted with the objects I behold, or more charmed with the melody I hear. If Doctors Gall and Spurzheim tell us, that in consequence of certain conformations of our brains, we have propensities, such as brutes also possess, productive of good or evil92 LECTURE II. according to the degree or direction in which they are exerted, they only attempt to account for facts of which we are all conscious. Men are by nature brave or fearful, generous or covetous, candid or cunning, fickle or determined; and these original qualities, though they admit of being controlled and suppressed, cannot be altogether annulled. Our great student of human nature and conduct, whose repre- sentations of them must ever render him the delight, admiration, and glory of his country, has also metaphorically pourtrayed that mixture of good and evil which be- longs to the human character. “ Our web of brain is as a mingled yarn, the good and ill together; our virtues might be proud, if our vices whipp’d them not; and our vices would despair, were they not cherished by our virtues.” There is nothing in the assertions of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim contradictory to the results of general observation and expe- rience. It is admitted that the superior in- tellectual faculties can and ought to controlLECTURE II. 93 the inferior propensities. It is admitted that we may possess organs, which, never- theless, may be inactive, from natural tor- por or want of education. General obser- vation and experience proclaim, that sus- ceptibility is the chief incentive to action, that it is the source of genius ; and that the character of man greatly depends upon his education and habits. We educate our faculties ; what is at first accomplished with difficulty, by repetition is easily performed, and becomes more perfect and established by habit. Trains of perceptions and thoughts also become firmly concatenated, and occur in succession. Even our feelings undergo the same kind of education and establishment. Casual feelings of good- will, by repetition strengthen and produce lasting friendship ; whilst trivial sensations of disgust, in like manner, may occasion inveterate hatred. When the remembrance of our perceptions recurs, they are often concatenated with other perceptions, modi- fied by reflections, and associated with feel- ings ; and it is by means of the repetition of such trains of perceptions, thoughts,94 LECTURE II. and feelings, that habits of thinking and acting are acquired and established. Yet such reflections and associations are pro- duced and regulated by the actions of our own minds ; and it is therefore evident, of whatever materials Nature may have made us, she has at least given us great powei’3 of forming and fashioning ourselves. Had the dispositions and powers of our minds been similar, human life would have been dull and monotonous. Their variety ena- bles us by education to attain different kinds and degrees of excellence, and to be useful to one another. The very supposition of the organs which are said to form the distinctive characters of the human race, appears to me extremely ingenious. Every one knows that some in- dividuals are more prone to the accurate no- tation of facts ; others to their comparison, and to forming judgments from analogy; others to the investigation of causes; and others to those sportive combinations of si- milar and dissimilar things productive of wit and humour; which facts are attributed toLECTURE II. 95 the organization of the brain being more active or developed in different parts. 1 need not tell you, gentlemen, that I went to school a long while ago, and that what I was there taught has become established by repetition and habit, so that I cannot readily express my meaning, without the use of the old terms, cause and effect; it seems proper, therefore, to explain what I wish to express by them. In several medical books published of late, I read, that we have no knowledge of cause or effect, save what results from the continued observation of the priority of the one, and the consequence of the other. I was however taught to believe that we had by enquiry attained a rational assurance of the nature of cause and effect in a great number of instances, and might, by a conti- nuance of the same endeavour, probably obtain it in others. All our knowledge is derived from our perceptions, and they in- form us, that if one body in motion impinges on another force to move, the latter receives part of the motion of the former according96 LECTURE II. to the degree and direction in which the force has been applied. If, therefore, I push a bullet contained in a tube, in a hori- zontal direction, I infer that it moves for the same reason, or from the same kind of cause. But if I put the tube in an oblique or perpendicular direction, I find the bullet move with different degrees of velocity and force from another cause, gravitation. If I explode gunpowder in the lower part of a tube held in a perpendicular direction, con- taining also a bullet, I find the ball forced upwards for a time by one cause, and then it descends in consequence of another. My senses may indeed inform me of the ap- pearances of light and shade, in the sur- faces of spherical and many-sided figures; but if, after having studied all that human ingenuity and industry has discovered rela- tive to these subjects, I am able, in the absence of the object, to represent upon paper a spherical or many-sided figure, do I not manifest a knowledge of the causes of light and shade beyond that which my perceptions alone would have produced ? If also, I can at will present the angle of a /LECTURE II. 97 prism to a luminous body, so as to produce the regular exhibition of the rainbow co- lours, do I not exhibit a knowledge of the causes of such effects ? If indeed the re- tailers of such sentences as I have been commenting on, merely design to inform us that we have no knowledge of the pre- cise means by which a cause produces an effect, they surely need not have exhibited so much parade in shewing what is con- stantly seen and acknowledged. If how- ever they mean to insinuate, that we have no knowledge of cause or effect beyond that which results from mere observation, they publish at the same time, a libel on the human understanding; a prohibition to rational enquiry, and a most severe sa- tire, on themselves. Should the result of our general enqui- ries, or attention to the subjects proposed to us by Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, even- tually induce us to believe that the pecu- liarities of our feelings and faculties were the effects of variety of excitement trans- mitted through a diversity of organization, hLECTURE II. 98 they would tend to produce mutual for- bearance and toleration. We should per- ceive how nearly impossible it must be that persons should think and feel exactly alike upon any subject. We should not ario- gantly pride ourselves on our own virtues and knowledge, nor condemn the errors and weakness of others ; since they may depend upon causes which we can neithei produce nor readily counteract. The path of virtue is plain and direct, and its object distinctly before us; so that no one can miss either, who has resolution enough ne- ver to lose sight of them by adverting to the advantages and allurements, with which he may be presented on the one hand, or the menacings with which he may be assail- ed on the other. Yet no one, judging from his own feelings and powers, can be aware of the kind and degree of temptation or terror, or the seeming incapacity to resist them, which may have induced others to deviate. Now though, from the loregoing considerations, I am pleased with the specu- lations of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, I am however quite incompetent to gn e an99 LECTURE II. h 2 opinion as to the probability of what they have suggested; because I see no mode by which we can with propriety admit or re- ject their assertions, except by pursuing the same course of investigation that they themselves have followed; a task of great labour and difficulty, and one which, for vanous reasons, I should feel great repug- nance to undertake. After these general observations on the form of the human head, the mansion of the mind, and the index of its character, I proceed to describe that of the teeth, which commonly make a part of the skeleton. In man, they must be regarded chiefly as the means by which he masticates his food; yet Mr. Hunter did not, in my opinion, consi- der the teeth of animals in general as sub- servient principally to this purpose, but placed them in his Museum, for reasons that will hereafter be explained, among the instruments and weapons that are allotted to animals. i he four front teeth, in man, have theirLECTURE II. 100 edges overlapping each other, like the blades of a pair of scissars, and seem well calculated to cut in slices the food which admits of such a division. The side front teeth, which correspond to those teeth in animals, called tusks and tushes, fangs and venom teeth, are in the human subject, round in front, flattish behind ; they increase in size as they project from the gum, till having attained their greatest magnitude, they become suddenly and ob- tusely pointed. They have long roots inserted deeply in the jaws, and the pointed termination of their bodies pro- jects a little beyond the level ot the line made by the edges of the other teeth. These teeth seem well calculated for break- ing into small pieces hard substances, and thus preparing them for the action of the grinders. All the back teeth in the human subject are grinders, and there are two small and three large on either side, in each of the jaws. That nature meant man to grind his food by means of his teeth, is to be inferred, notLECTURE II. 101 h 3 only from their form, but from the mecha- nism of the joints of his jaws, from the great strength and various actions of his muscles of mastication, and from the lever formed by the coronoid process to increase their power. I do not know, however, that we are warranted to infer from the teeth alone what kind of food nature designed us to live on. Some vegetables and animals are peculiar to certain districts, and .will not thrive in other situations; whilst other kinds of vegetables and animals, are found more generally distributed over the surface of the globe. Grass and corn thrive every where. Man also seems an universal ani- mal. He can, and does live in some places upon vegetables only, whilst in a Greenland winter, his chief sustenance is derived from oil and fish. Nature may have given man means to grind his food, that he may ex- tract the greatest quantity of nourishment from a deficient supply of it; and he can by mixing different kinds of food qualify sub- stances for trituration, which by themselves would be unsuited to that process. It is also one of his characteristics, and in whichLECTURE II. 102 he seems much to delight, that he is a cooking animal. The human teeth are also of great use in the articulation of our words. I should certainly not fulfill one of my objects in these Lectures, which is to dis- play, to the extent of my ability, the merits of Mr. Hunter, were I to omit in some part of them, to notice the surprizing la- bours he bestowed, in investigating the structure and functions of animals of the whale kind. In all the works of nature, we perceive extreme variety. The teeth are not only various in their formation and re-production, but also in the substances of which they are formed, and the pur- poses which they serve; and as some of the whales present a very curious instance of this sort, I trust I shall be excused, if I introduce the subject on the present oc- casion. In Mr. Hunter’s paper relative to the structure and functions of animals of the whale kind, there is abundant evidence of the peculiar character of his mind. We see the student of nature on the mostLECTURE II. 103 h 4 extended scale, solicitously enquiring into all those particulars which adapt these animals to the peculiar situation they occupy in the scale of existence. The horizontal direction of the tail, so different from that of fish, and the cause of the pe- culiar strength of the flexor muscles, ana- logous, as he says, to the lumbar muscles of animals, is shewn to be calculated to raise the most prominent part of the ani- mal, where the blow-hole is placed, above the surface of the water for respiration; whilst the horizontal motions of the tail are equally adapted to depress it to the depths of the ocean in search of food. The motions of the tail cause these animals to move up and down in a curvilinear di- rection, which makes them appear hump- backed, and thus the dolphin is generally represented. We see this in porpoises when they swim slowly and near shore, alternately respiring and grubbing along the bottom. Yet these creatures can, with their powerful tails, scull themselves forwards in a strait direction with surprizing speed, passing a ship whilst she is going at the rate of tenLECTURE IL 104« miles an hour, with the same apparent ce- lerity, as if she were lying at anchor. The back bone of this tribe of animals, is formed as in quadrupeds * ; it has not the flexibility nor lateral motion of that part in fishes, neither have they side oars or fins, and therefore they are unable to pursue the quickly varied and versatile motions of the finny tribe. They say, however, that a squadron of porpoises will encompass a shoal of herrings and drive them into a small bay to devour them. Though many of the whale tribe have teeth, they probably chiefly feed upon medusae, sepiae, shrimps, &c. which they find on the shores and depths of the ocean, or when pressed by hunger, they may destroy and devour one another. Mr. Hunter found the eye of some kind of whale undigested in the stomach of the grampus. We can- not consider them as predacious animals, for these in general are suspicious, cunning, * Mr. Hunter has put up a preparation of the inter- vertebral substance, which is similar to that of quadru- peds in general.105 LECTURE II. and solitary) whilst the whale tribe have an opposite character. The porpoises accom- pany our ships on the voyage, and they say the dolphin has been known to come to the shore when called for food he had been accustomed to receive; observations and stories of this kind may have formed the basis of different poetical fictions. For so monstrous a creature as the great whale, when thus constructed to obtain a supply of food for its vast bulk, would appear to us, were we ignorant of the means which nature has contrived, a sub- ject of the greatest difficulty. But she has made his mouth an enormous trap, and has given him whalebone teeth, the fringed edges of which form a finely meshed net to encompass his prey. We must suppose him groping along the bottom of the ocean, his jaws extended, his mouth a vast cham- ber, twenty or thirty feet in length, and ten or twelve in breadth, filled with water, containing medusae, sepiae, shrimps and small fish, when gently closing his jaws.100 LECTURE II. they are encompassed in a net formed by the decussating fibres of the fringed edges of the whalebone teeth. The tongue, which is soft like a feather bed, and very thick, being applied to the roof of the mouth, the water is expressed through the aper- tures of the net, and then the food is swal- lowed. Thus is the most powerful Levia- than obliged to obtain his livelihood by the exercise of the wily arts of the fisherman. Mr. Hunter supposes, that the oil and spermaceti which these animals form in such abundance, not only serves to give them buoyancy, but also proves a store- house of nutriment in cases of failure in the ordinary supply of food ; for he found the cells that contain spermaceti empty in some instances, which, he thought, indicated that the animal had been for a long time without food. The whole of the whale tribe have also complicated stomachs like those of ruminants, which enable them to extract the greatest quantity of nourishment from whatever food they mayLECTURE II. 107 obtain. I must not pursue this subject further, but merely recommend those who wish to do justice to Mr. Hunter, and form a fair estimate of his labours and merits, to peruse this paper with consideration. * * Philos. Trans. 1787.r ( 108 ) LECTURE III. . The head is placed on the top of a column of bones, which, from their having in ge- neral a kind of turning motion on one another, are called vertebra*, and the whole pile is called the vertebral column. The base of the column rests upon a wedge- shaped bone, interposed between the side-bones of the pelvis. Each vertebra has belonging to it, a part called its body, which is of an oval or circular form, and presents two plain surfaces to the bone above and below, which are cemented to- gether by the intervertebral substance. The bodies of the vertebrae appear in front of the pillar, laid one upon another, like the stones with which a column is erected. They chiefly support the weight of the head and trunk, and regularly and consi- derably increase in size, as they descend, because the weight is proportionately aug- menting.109 LECTURE III. The intervertebral connecting substance is composed of concentric layers, of tough, strong, and unyielding ligaments which extend for about a quarter of an inch from the circumference of the body towards its centre, when the connecting substance ap- pears softer, and is manifestly elastic; which appearance continues till it ap- proaches the centre, when the still con- necting matter becomes pulpy and inelastic. The exterior concentric layers of strong unyielding ligament serve for security. The quantity of elastic substance inter- posed between the several vertebrae, is not so great as to occasion any insecurity in their connexion, yet the aggregate elasti- city of the whole, renders the vertebral column very springy; so that the head rides upon its summit, undisturbed by jars, and as upon a pliant spring. The central inelastic matter admitting of a ready va- riation of form, though not of bulk, serves as a pivot facilitating the motion of the vertebrae on one another. Doctor Mac- laurin in his lectures delivered more than 9110 LECTURE III. half a century ago, was accustomed to illus- trate its use by comparing it to a bladder partly filled with water, and placed between two trenchers ; in which case, the water would readily diminish in bulk as the cir- cumference of the trenchers became ap- proximated on the one side, and would occupy the encreasing space on the other. As the exterior ligaments are unyielding, this variation of form in the central pivot could-never have taken place, had not an elastic substance intervened between them. It is interesting and creditable to human intellect, which thus penetrates into the de- signs of nature, to know, that in the great fish, the squalus maximus, or basking shark of Pennant, this, then merely suppositious, structure is actually found. There is in the centre of the intervertebral connection, a bag of water, and so great is the elasticity ol the substance by which it is surrounded, that when Mr. Clift cut into the bag, the expansion of the elastic matter, projected the fluid to the height of four feet in aLECTURE III. Ill large and. perpendicular stream, compress- ing the bag into a small compass, and forcing its sides into numerous wrinkles. Behind the body of each vertebra there is a bony ring, and these rings, when op- posed to one another, constitute a canal for the protection and transmission of that important part, the medulla spinalis. From these rings, seven processes are con- tinued, four of which serve to make joints, connecting the vertebrae with one another. There are two ascending and two descend- ing articular processes. Two processes also stand out laterally, and are called transverse, and one backwards, which, be- ing in general pointed, is named spinous. These latter processes chiefly serve to give attachment to the muscles which support and move the vertebral column. Upon the form of the articular processes, the degree and kind of motion which takes place between the several vertebrae, seem entirely to depend. In the neck, the op- posing surfaces of the articular processes iiLECTURE 111. 112 are smooth and oblique planes, a form which admits of a limited and equal degree of sliding motion forwards and backwards, from side to side, and also of a turning or vertebral motion of one bone on another. We know that the vertebral column in the neck, admits of an equal motion in these different directions, so that we can touch the breast with. our chins, the back with our hind head, and the shoulders with either ear. We can also turn the neck, so as to describe with our face a complete semicircle. In the last motion, the effect is, however, augmented by the peculiar turning of the first vertebra upon the second, which will be separately described hereafter. In the neck we find the spinous processes short and horizontal, so as to afford no obstacle to the extension of that part, and we find them formed in a similar manner, in all animals which have long necks and carry their heads far backwards. In the back, we find the articular pro- cesses formed into perpendicular planes, which preclude any motion either forwaidsLECTURE III. 113 or backwards, or any turning of one verte- bra upon another ; a form which allows only of a motion from side to side, to which, however, the ribs present an insur- mountable obstacle. In the back, we find the spinous processes sloping considerably downwards, and absolutely locked together, by a sharp ridge of one being received into a groove of the other. We find, also, the rib connected to the transverse processes, so that every circumstance concurs to pre- vent any motion, save that which results from the elasticity of the intervertebral substance. It seems, therefore*, evidently the intention of nature, to make the verte- bral column, in the back, a fixed support for the ribs to move upon. In the loins, we find the articular pro- cesses very differently formed from what they are either in the neck or back. The descending ones are shaped like half an oval, the convex surface of which is re- ceived into a cavity of corresponding figure in those which ascend, which form is admi- rably adapted to admit of the suddenly iLECTURE III. 114- turning horizontal motion which takes place in this part of the vertebral column. It also freely admits of motion from side to side, but does not allow of it in any considerable degree either forwards or back- wards. Indeed had such motions been permitted beyond a certain extent, the ab- dominal viscerawould have been injuriously compressed by the ribs. Neither is much motion, in this direction, requisite, because we can carry forwards and backwards the trunk of the body, by moving the pelvis upon the rounded heads of the thigh bones. The spinous processes of the loins extend horizontally, so as not to interfere with one another in the turning motion, but their great breadth is prohibitory of extension beyond a limited degree. The head is joined on to the first verte- bra, (which, from supporting this globe on its shoulders, is generally called the atlas,) by two oval processes placed obliquely and received into corresponding cavities in the upper articular processes of this vertebra. The form of the bones precludes any hori-LECTURE III. 115 zontal or turning motion of the head upon the atlas, and admits only of a slight yield- ing forwards and backwards. The condyles are placed so exactly parallel to the center of gravity, that when we sit upright, and go to sleep in that posture, the weight of the head has a tendency to preponderate equally in every direction, as we see in ? those who are dozing in a carriage. Nay, their heads sometimes revolve in a circle, like the head of Harlequin on the stage. The head and atlas turn round upon the second vertebra; the upper articular pro- cesses of which, as well as the lower ones of the atlas, are formed into nearly hori- zontal planes, a form well calculated to admit of this motion. They are not, in- deed, perfectly horizontal, but shelve a little to either side, so as to admit of a part of the lateral motion formerly mentioned. The second vertebra has growing up from its body a tooth-shaped process, and it is, therefore, usually called the vertebra den- tata. This process is tied to the head by ligaments of surprizing strength, which i 2 \LECTURE III. 116 are loose enough to allow the intended motion, but no more. This ready horizon- tal movement is requisite, to enable us suddenly to turn our eyes to different objects. If the head turned on the top ol the pillar, there would be insecurity, unless some especial contrivance, not essential to the head or vertebral column, was insti- tuted, as may be inferred from Compara- rative Anatomy. The head is attached to the very summit of the column in the cen- ter, by extremely strong ligaments, whilst in the circumference it is secured, not merely by other ligaments, but also by those power- ful muscles which constantly support it, and occasionally move it in various directions. The spinous processes of the vertebras are connected to one another by what is called an elastic ligament, with the obvious properties of which, every one is familiarly acquainted, from having encountered, it at their meals, in the necks of animals, where it forms the ligamentum nuchas, which sup- ports the head of the animal whilst grazing, »LECTURE Ilf. i 3 11?' without the expense of muscular exertion. It is yellow, tough, firm, and powerfully elastic. The spinous processes are situated so far behind the center of motion, that if they had been tied together by unyielding liga- ments, these must have been formed of con- siderable length, to allow of the greatest de- gree of bending of the column, and then they would have been useless and wrinkled in its common position. The elastic ligament admits of the utmost motion of the column, and, by its powerful elasticity, tends to restore it, and retain it in its natural form. The elasticity of the substance, in- terposed between the bodies of the verte- brae, also co-operates in restoring the co- lumn to its natural figure. If we take the vertebral column of a young subject sepa- rately from the other parts of the skeleton, and forcibly bend it in different directions, we find it suddenly and forcibly recoil, and assume its proper shape. The vertebral column is not straight ; it comes forwards in the neck and loins, so as to appear likeLECTURE HI. 118 the top and bottom of a perpendicular pil- lar, but in the back it projects posteriorly, and describes a segment of a large circle. In consequence of this form, the back part of the chest, the blade bones of the shoul- der, and the weighty muscles of the back, project behind the center of gravity, and become equiponderant to the weight in front; and, we know, that in an upright posture, the whole weight of the upper part of the body is so perfectly balanced on the base of the vertebral column, as to have an equal propensity to preponderate in every direction. Though the motion taking place between the individual vertebrae is small, and such as can .produce no alteration in the form of the vertebral canal injurious to the me- dulla spinalis, yet the effect of the conjoin- ed motion of all the vertebrae is considera- ble ; and appears still greater when ob- served in the motions of the head, which it supports. We can incline the head far forwards, backwards, or to either side, and, nearly in an equal degree.119 LECTURE III. Had the vertebral column been formed straight, arid the same extent ol motion (riven to the head, the weight would have so preponderated, that its support would not only have been difficult, but it might have operated injuriously to the fabric ol the co- lumn itself. As the column is constructed, when either end of it is projected in one direction, the other can be carried in the opposite, and the balance preserved. Thus, when the loins are brought forward, the neck and head can be carried backward, so as to preserve the line of gravity perpendi- cular to the basis of support; and vice vei'sa in all directions. By constant practice, the muscles are so habituated to produce these opposite and balancing motions, as involuntarily to do so with the greatest exactness, as well as to co-operate with the elasticity of the column, in restoring it to its proper direc- tion and form. The requisite actions are slight, transient, and varied, and therefore produce no fatigue. This circumstance,^ together with the disposition of the column i 4LECTURE III. 120 to maintain its usual form, and the ease attendant on these motions, cannot be bet- ter exemplified than in the instance of riding on horseback. A practised and fearless rider will fold his saddle cloth into a cushion, place it on the back of a rough trotting horse, and sitting on it, keep his seat, undisturbed by suffering all the succussations of the steed to be trans- mitted to the body, above the pelvis, and preserving that part fixed, by constantly keeping the line of gravity of the whole perpendicular to the basis of support. Thus do we enjoy the most springy ease of motion, and perfect fixity of position, with scarcely any muscular exertion, and with- out any effort of mind, for volition cannot regulate .the action of muscles in this man- ner, and those who, from apprehension, seek security in their own efforts, lose it, in proportion as they strive to obtain it. The vertebral column in the back affords support to the twelve ribs, one end of which lies imbedded in cavities formed be- tween their bodies, and their tubercles areLECTURE III. 121 connected to the transverse processes. The ribs successively and considerably in- crease in length, as far as the seventh, which causes the cavity they encompass to become larger; they then diminish in length, and the cavity of the chest becomes smaller. The seven upper ribs are connect- ed by gristles to the breast bone. The five lower have their gristles united with each other, or have no connection except with the vertebral column. The breast bone is placed very obliquely, so that at the top it is very near tlie vertebral column, whilst at the bottom it is very distant. The ribs, in proceeding from the dorsal vertebrae, first take a direction backwards, and then rather suddenly turn forwards, so that the vertebral column projects into the cavity of the chest. This circumstance, and the oblique position of the sternum, both con- tribute to render the weight, before and behind the vertebral column, equiponde- rant upon its basis, in the manner I have formerly mentioned. The upper or pectoral extremity of man.LECTURE III. 122 is divided into the shoulder, which is composed of two bones ; the arm of one ; the fore-arm of two ; and the hand of many. The blade-bone of the shoulder is placed behind the chest, and not, as in brutes, by the side. It is in common so situated that the cup to which the arm is joined, and from which it hangs, projects exactly in the lateral direction, and consequently the weight of the arm has no tendency to move its socket forwards or backwards, but merely to depress it. Though the bones of the shoulder can be moved forwards and backwards, upwards and downwards, even in a considerable degree ; yet the joint of the shoulder can never approach to the breast bone as it does in quadrupeds. The effects resulting from these circumstances are, that when the arms hang in their na- tural direction, the general line of gravity of the upper part of the body undergoes no change; but if the shoulder joints be brought either forwards or backwards, the weight proportionately preponderates, and the whole body moves upon the base of the vertebral column. The extent of motionLECTURE III. 123 of the shoulder joint in the directions that have been mentioned, greatly augments the sphere of motion of the arm and hand. The joint of the shoulder is kept from approaching the front of the chest by the collar bone, which is nearly strait, though projecting a little forwards towards its middle, so as to give a slight convexity ol outline to the top of the chest and bottom of the neck. The end of the collar bone, which rests upon the sternum, is bulky, and of a somewhat triangular form, but it rests in a thick bed of cartilage, which prevents its shape from being apparent. The scapu- lar end of the collar bone is flat, and con- nected in an horizontal direction with a like-shaped projection of the blade bone, which forms the end of the shoulder. No animal, except the monkey, has a collar bone like man; for none has a corresponding motion of the pectoral ex- tremities. When the trunk is bowed forwards, theLECTURE ill. 124< hands swing in the same direction, and then the weight of the arm drags forward the shoulder joints. In weakly children whose bones are deficient in firmness, the collar bones yielding under these circum- stances, become convex in front, and the bulky sternal extremities are in some de- gree dislodged from their cartilaginous beds. Ihe blade bone is also drawn for- wards on the convex ribs, so that the back part projects beneath the skin. The weight of the shoulders and head now bears, in some degree, upon the walls of the chest, being transmitted by them to the vertebral column, by which means they also become deformed. So commonly do these causes operate in the manner I have mentioned, that we rarely see exactly such a collar bone as I have endeavoured to describe; they must have been very healthy when young, who have such collar bones as are represented in the Grecian statues. To prevent the deformities incident to the causes I have mentioned, parents are accustomed to brace125 LECTURE III. their children’s shoulders backwards ; nor do I think the practice wrong, where it is required, and when it is conducted with moderation ; but surely we ought to caution the public against the absurdity of bracing the shoulders back, beyond what is natu- ral, till the blade bones come in contact with the vertebral column, for this destroys the natural balance of the body, and is more likely to produce than to prevent deformity. The joint by which the arm is connected with the shoulder, is a ball and socket joint, admitting of motion in every direc- tion. Even those animals, whose pectoral extremities seldom move in any other direc- tion but forwards and backwards for the purposes of progression, have a similarly constructed joint. The advantage derived from this mechanism seems to be, that it admits of the motion of the limb, or of the body singly. Thus, when at rest, the limbs may be moved without disturbing the posi- tion of the body, and when the limbs are injured, slight variations in the posture of126 LECTURE III. the body are permitted, without commu- nicating motion to the limb. The elbow joint moves like a hinge, backwards and forwards. Now, if the first joint be a ball and socket, and the second a hinge, it is manifest that the hand may be put in almost every possible position within the area of that space, the circum- ference of which it is competent to describe by its utmost extent of motion. There are, however, two bones in the fore-arm; and one of them alone has its motions restricted to those of a hinge. This is called the ulna, and is the bone which sends backwards a projection, we name the elbow. The top of the elbow gives a surface for the attach- ment of the tendinous fibres of the extensor muscle, and affords a lever to increase its power. The lever in the human subject, is, however,inconsiderable, compared with what we observe in animals, the power of whose progressive motions greatly depends on the drawing backward of this part. We observe this in our dogs, and horses, and other ani- mals; and it forms the first apparent joint127 LECTURE III. in their pectoral extremities ; for the arm and shoulder blade lie hid in the bulk and circumference of the body. The back part of the elbow in man, is formed into a smooth and somewhat triangular plain surface, upon which we occasionally lean. That na- ture designed this for an occasional resting place, is to be inferred from the coarse tex- ture of the skin which covers it, which is similar to that placed over the lower part of the knee pan. The form of the corresponding articular surfaces of the bone of the arm and ulna, freely admits an extensive motion forwards and backwards, and absolutely prevents any other. The bone of the arm has a groove formed in it, with lateral risings, and the ulna has a middle projection with lateral depressions. This groove making a kind of hinge for the ulna to move on, is formed obliquely, its upper part inclining towards the body. When, therefore, we bend the elbow, the fore-arm does not come in opposition to the arm, but carries the hand to the trunk of the body. When we128 LECTURE III. bend the elbow, we generally wish to ap- proximate or apply the hand to some part of our persons ; and in consequence of the oblique direction of the pulley, we accom- plish by one motion, what would have required two, had the groove been formed straight, as it is in animals. That part of the ulna which is next the radius, for so the other bone of the fore-arm is called, is hol- lowed out into a semicircular cavity, in %/ which the radius revolves to a certain degree. The top of the radius is formed into a shallow cup, which fits on to a convexity of much greater extent of surface in the bone of the arm. There- fore, the cup can move forwards and back- wards, in correspondence with the motions of the ulna, and can also, in any state of flexion or extension of the joint, turn round upon its own axis. The radius has also a semicircular convex surface, which is lodged in the excavation of the ulna, and at the same time revolves in that cavity to a cer- tain degree. Such is the mechanism by which we are enabled in any state of flexion and extension of the elbow, to turn the 4LECTURE III. 129 hand prone or supine, for whilst the radius is revolving upon its axis above, it travels round the ulna below, and carries with it the hand. The surface, which the fore-arm presents to make the joint of the wrist, is an oblong cavity of little depth. It is formed chiefly in the radius, and partly in a piece of car- tilage, continued from the end of that bone over the extremity of the ulna. The side surface of the radius, which is applied to ’ the ulna, is hollowed out into a semi- circular cavity, receiving a corresponding convex surface of the ulna j so that the hand and the cartilage, continued from the radius, moves round upon the end of the ulna. The wrist is composed of eight little bones placed in two rows. They form an arch slightly convex on the back of the hand. There are projections in front on either side, forming its basis or spring. These ai e secured together by the carpal ligament which is of prodigious strength. There is K130 LECTURE III. a motion between the two rows of carpal bones, so that when the wrist is bent, the arch of the carpus forms a kind of knuckle without any angular projection. We find the same structure in the second apparent joint of the fore-legs of quadrupeds. What seems a knee is the wrist, and they kneel upon the knuckle of the carpus. The fabric of this part is particularly strong. Its arched form secures it from injury from above, the carpal ligament from below; but it * is equally uninjured by forces applied to its side, else how could boxers strike with such force, or animals leap as they are known to do. The four metacarpal bones, which are interposed between the carpus and fin- gers, are made large at either end, to form joints, and small in the middle, to affoid room and arrangement to muscles, which move the fingers from side to side. Iheir bulky ends, which join on to the carpus, are connected by nearly plain surfaces, and admit of no manifest motion. The other ends, which support the fingers, are formedLECTURE ill. k 2 LSI into rounded heads, and the first bones of the fingers‘have cup-shaped corresponding ca- a ities, so that considering the skeleton merely, we might suppose the joint was one of the ball and socket kind, admitting of motion in all directions. We find however, that the ligaments are so arranged as to limit the motions of the joints chiefly to those of flexion and extension, allowing in- deed of slight motion from side to side, and a slight horizontal turning of the fin- gei on die end ol the metacarpal bone, which motions are greatest in the fore and little fingers. The articular surface of this convex end of the metacarpal bones con- tinues so far backwards and forwards, that we can extend the fingers a little beyond a light line with the metacarpus, and we can bend them to more than a right angle. Ihe metacarpal bones are so connected by ligaments and muscles, as to prevent these ends separating from on e another, andspread- mg, when we grasp convex bodies ; and the end of the metacarpal bone, which supports the little finger, has a powerful apparatus of muscles expressly allotted to it, to keeplecture hi. 182 it firm, in opposition to the power of the thumb, when we grasp bodies with force. The bones of the fingers are made a little convex behind, but flat in front, ioi the convenience of grasping. The second and third joints of the fingers are formed into hinges, admitting only of flexion and ex- tension. The last bones of the fingeis aie very small, the nail causing the apparent breadth of the end of the finger. The thumb consists of three bones, the first of which is articulated to the carpus, and the joint appears like a hinge, though from the looseness of the ligaments, it admits of a small degree of motion in veiy various directions ; which motions appear more considerable than they really are, when their effect is observed, as the extre- mity of so long a radius as the thumb makes. In consequence of this freedom of motion, we are enabled to apply the end of the thumb to each of the fingers and to different parts of the hand, and also to place the thumb in direct opposition to the power133 LECTURE III. exerted by the whole of the fingers and hand, in grasping. The second joint of the thumb resembles the first joint of the fingers, not only in the form of the bones, but also in the arrangement of the liga- ments, which limit the motions nearly to those of a hinge, and the last joint of the thumb, is like either of the two last joints of the fingers, a perfect hinge. The fingers and thumb are of unequal length, and, on this account, they are pe- culiarly adapted for grasping spherical bo- dies, which are most difficult to seize and to hold. If, for instance, we take hold of a pocket globe, placing one of its poles in the hollow of our hand, we find all our fingers and the thumb opposing each other upon some parallel of latitude, and thus giving the greatest security to our grasp. When the elbow joint is fixed, the hand describes a complete semicircle, in prona- tion and supination ; and the extent of its motion, in these directions, may be in- creased by variations in the position of the k 3LECTURE III. 134 elbow and shoulder. As the hand moves through a yet more considerable portion of a circle in the utmost flexion and exten- sion of the wrist, as it admits in all these motions of being carried to one side or the other, it is obvious that we can take hold ot bodies in any point of the very considerable area, the circumference of which, the hand is competent to describe, when the other joints of the arm are moved to their great- est extent. The excellence of the mechan- ism of the pectoral extremities of man is proved by its results. The structures are so strong, and the powers so great, that \*e can seize, and hold, and pull, and push, and strike, with great power, and in such surprizingly varied directions ; and yet the joints and powers are so nicely formed and adjusted, that we can also take hold ot the smallest objects, and guide them with the greatest gentleness, nicety and diversity of motion, by which means we are enabled to model and design the minutest objects. The weight of the head, arms, and upper part of the body rests, as has been shewn,LECTURE III. 135 / in equilibrio on the bone which supports the base of the vertebral column. This wedge-shaped bone is called the os sacrum they say, because that part of the animal was frequently offered in sacrifices. It is very broad above and narrow below, so that the weight which it supports would only tend to depress the broader part of the wedge in- to the narrower space, and render the fabric more secure. The sacrum is convex be- hind, and concave in front, for it forms a part of a somewhat circular bony cavity placed at the bottom of the belly and called the pelvis or basin. The sacrum terminates by a smooth surface of small extent, and oblong in the lateral direction, on which there moves backwards and for- wards a little bone which is called the os coccygis, from its supposed resemblance to a cuckow’s beak. This bone is occasionally thrust backwards, but is usually held for- wards by muscles connected to it, and af- fords the last bony support for the weight of those bowels which may gravitate into the cavity of the pelvis in particular posi- tions of the body. k 4136 LECTURE nr. This little bone is analogous to the tail of animals, which is moveable on the end of the sacrum, and composed of many pieces of various form in different animals. I mention this merely as one of the proofs, though it is far from the best, of the uni- formity of the plan, and the diversity of the means and ends we observe in the construction of animals. The tail very commonly serves to animals the purposes of a switch, a balance, and a rudder. It is however a hold-fast in such as possess the cauda prehensilis, whilst to the kan- garoo it is a prop and a leaping-pole, and to the beaver it serves as a trowel. The sacrum derives support from the two side bones of the pelvis, by extensive surfaces, which converge as the wedge di- minishes. These bones form a kind of circle, and are united with each other in front, and thus is the bony circumference of the pelvis completed. The back part of the circle being continued from the sa- crum forms an arch on which the weight of the body is supported. No one can, I 1LECTURE III. , 1S7 think, view this part of the skeleton without being struck with its architectural construction. The wedge forms the key- stone of an arch, on which, not only the weight of the upper part of the body, but also of those loads which we occa- sionally sustain, is supported. The side- bones are expanded‘above the brim of the pelvis forming the hips, and give support to the viscera contained in the belly. The hips are much more expanded in females than in males. The ancients, who had a clear and strong perception of whatever is beautiful and useful in the human figure, and who, perhaps, delicately exaggerated beauty to render it more striking, have re- presented Venus as measuring one-third more across the hips than the shoulders, whilst in Apollo, they have reversed these measurements. The lower part of the side- bones are formed into oblique protube- rances, upon which we sit, and here we have a fatty cushion to rest upon. These prominences are placed parallel to the line of gravity, so that when we sit upright upon them, the weight of the body is here again found to be in a state of equipoize. TheLECTURE III. 138 cavity of the pelvis in the human subject, is not placed as it is in brutes, in the same direction with that of the belly. Were it so, the contents of that cavity would be continually gravitating towards its inferior aperture. Even the pelvic viscera cannot be said to gravitate towards the inferior aperture of the pelvis, in the ordinary posi- tions of the body ; whatever presses in that direction must be protruded. The weight of the whole upper part of the body, is transmitted from the arch de- scribed by the bones of the pelvis, to a se- cond arch, made by the form of the heads and necks of the thigh bones. Their heads, which are very perfectly rounded, making a considerable portion of a sphere, are lodged in deep cups, the brims of which are particularly high in the upper and outer part, where the re-action of the ground against our descending weight, would ordi- narily tend to dislodge them, had not such an occurrence been thus guarded against. These cups are placed a little in front ol a perpendicular line let fall from the top of the sacrum. As the weight of the greater130 LECTURE 111. part of the pelvis, and of the muscular buttocks is placed behind the sockets, so when we stand upright, the whole of the incumbent weight is perfectly balanced on the rounded heads of the thigh bone, and the most trivial variation in the direction of the weight, occasions the body to in- cline towards that part, at which it takes place. The hip joint is the most complete ball and socket joint in the human skeleton, and the socket can move upon the ball with the most perfect facility, and with the nicest gradation and variation. Thus, when we stand upon one leg, we have the power of balancing the weight upon the rounded head of the thigh bone. There are two modes of balancing, either by moving the incumbent weight upon the area of sup- port, or by moving the basis of support under the incumbent weight. By the con- nexion of our lower extremities with the pelvis, we possess the ability of balancing our weight in both these ways. No better demonstration of this need be given, than what is exhibited in those amphitheatres,140 LECTURE III. where feats of horsemanship are displayed. We there see a man stand with one foot on the saddle, and maintain his balance, when his horse is at full speed. This he does when his body is placed horizontally, and with one arm and leg extended in opposite directions. To maintain so perfect a ba- lance, it is necessary tljat the weight of the body should move in various directions, and with nicely adjusted gradations upon the head of the thigh bone, and also, that by the motions of the knee and ancle, the support should be equally varied under the incumbent weight. The weight of the body is transmitted from the arch of the pelvis, to a second arch made by the form of the heads and necks of the thigh bones, the basis of which rests against the side of the bone near its top, and protrudes that part of the bone outwards, and the bottom in a contrary • ^ direction, so as to bring the knee joint nearly under the general line of gravity of the whole body, and from this joint, the weight is transmitted in a perpendicular direction upon the arch of the foot.141 LECTURE III. I must not dwell upon the form of the bones or the structure of the joints in these pelvic or lower extremities, lest I should set my audience asleep. Suffice it then to say, that when the knee-joint is extended, so that the leg makes a perpendicular line with the thigh, and the ankle bent, so that the foot forms a right angle with the leg, each of these joints is rigid and immove- able. Such is their position when we stand ; the whole limb forming a pillar for our support, and no motion can take place but at the top or bottom, at the hip or foot. But when the knee is bent, and the foot stretched out, as happens in progres- sion, the same joints are loosened, and a lateral motion admitted, which is useful in the direction of our steps. The knee is secured in its extended state, so necessary for our support, by muscles which are in- comparably the strongest in the whole body ; and which hold the knee-pan ele- vated to the top of a pully formed in the front of the joint. But when these muscles are weak, then indeed are “ the pregnant hinges of the knee disposed to crook,” andLECTURE III. 142 yield to the incumbent weight. By the same muscles we are let down easily into our chairs, and they are the agents which raise us up again. There are those who, having by habit preserved the motion of their joints to the greatest extent, and of their muscles to the greatest degree of action and yielding, can lower themselves gradually so as to sit upon their heels. These muscles therefore are employed to break our fall, if it takes place in the most dangerous direction back- wards. The strong muscles in front of the body more potent from the lever with which they operate, being attached far before the center of gravity, also concur in bringing forwards the chest and head, and protecting them from injury. We see children, when in danger of falling backwards, by these means suddenly sit down upon the ground. Nature has also formed the lower limbs of * children, whose powers are feeble and un- practised in balancing, so short as greatly to diminish the risk of injury from falling. Most young animals are formed with short143 LECTURE III. limbs apparently for the same reason. Such formation however cannot be con- sidered as the result of necessity, for when the mother suckles her young, whilst standing, their limbs appear of a prepos- terous length. When we fall forwards, we fall as a quadruped stands, our outstretched arms protecting the upper part of the body, and our bended knees the lower. When we stand on one leg, the weight of the whole body, as well as of those loads which it occasionally sustains, is transmitted by the bones of the leg upon the arch of the foot, which is very convex, and well adapted for its support, from whence it is transmitted to the heel behind, and to the ends of the metatarsal bones which form the first joints of the toes, so that it rests upon the ground. Chiefly however the weight is supported upon the ends of the metatarsal bones belonging to the great and little toe which have a strong apparatus ol muscles to keep them steady and pre- serve them in their relative situation to the heel. Thus is our weight supported on an arch and transmitted to the ground by a 9144 LECTURE 111. tripod: forms well known to be best adapted for giving support and security of position. Nature, however, gave us powers of grasp- ing with our feet, and thus further securing our position, but these we in general lose for want of using them. They say, a Chinese will sit perched upon a ship’s boom when it swings to leeward, and it is recorded, that Milo could stand with one foot on a quoit, and no man in Greece could push or pull him off. If this be true, he must have been not only a very strong man, but a very heavy one, and a most expert ba- lancer. The arch of the tarsus, like that of the car- pus, can also resist the effect of forces when applied against it sideways. We can walk on the ends of the metatarsal bones, and in that case, the short toes do but seem to increase the extent of surface on which we are sup- ported. This security against injury in this direction, is further manifested in qua- drupeds ; for the tarsus is the structure of the second apparent joints, in their pelvic or hind limbs, joints which correspond to theLECTURE III. 145 carpus in front, and which are usually called the hocks. In those animals that leap to great heights or distances, the os calcis pro- O D 1 jeets, so as to form a most enormous lever, •and we judge of the animal’s powers by observing this projection. Such is the mechanism of our lower limbs, nor need I endeavour to shew its excellence, by the effects resulting from it. Every one knows from what heights we can leap, to what heights we can spring, and to what distances we can bound, without in- jury ; as well as how swiftly we can run, how firmly we can stand, how nimbly we can dance, and how perfectly we can ba- lance ourselves upon the smallest surfaces of support. Yet there are a few circum- stances, which, I think, deserve consider- ation. Gravitation seems to be the chief cause which gives fixity of position to some parts, and consequent freedom of motion to others. When we stand upon one limb, we balance our weight upon the head of the thigh bone, and no effort is required to maintain our position, but what is necessary146 LECTURE 111. to secure the knee and ankle joints in that state in which they admit of no motion. Thus standing, all the other limbs are free to move, and can be moved with great power, because they are connected to a perpendicular column which owes its stabi- lity to its great weight. In the sculptured figures of the ancients, if a man is represen- ted standing on one leg, he seems as firmly fixed to the ground as a fast-rooted tree ; and associating freedom and power of mo- tion with this stability, we seem to expect the continuance of that action, which the figure is represented to have begun. When we stand upon both legs, we can transfer the weight from one to the other, with very little variation in the position of our bodies. The oblique direction of the thigh bones, the consequent approximation of the knees, and the transmission of the weight, in a perpendicular direction on the arch of the foot, seems to me designed to give us this facility. In progression, the supporting limbLECTURE III. 147 l 2 should be perpendicularly under the center of gravity of the whole body, and the ad- vancing one is not brought forwards in a straight but curvilinear direction. This course is the result of the rolling of the head of the thigh bone in its socket, and by it the advancing limb is brought forwards without striking the other, and carried to a position in which it is more di- rectly under the center of gravity of the bo- dy, when that is also brought forwards, than it would have been, had the limb moved in a straight line. The free and firm step of the soldier is the result of the circumstances I have mentioned. We are more struck and convinced of this, by observing that carica- ture of marching which is exhibited by opera dancers on the stage, for these sen- try will raise the advancing limb above a horizontal line drawn from the front of the pelvis, and performing sundry evolutions with the foot, will afterwards gently deposit it where it ought to be placed in ordinary progression : afterwards throwing the weight of the body perpendicularly upon it, they exhibit the same extravagancies with theLECTURE III. 148 other limb. All which we deem elegant, because we associate the idea of elegance with security of support obtained without effort. As a contrast to such progression as I have described, I request you to ob- serve, that of a very fat man, who walks with his legs far apart, and you will see that he is obliged to shift the weight of his body from one leg to the other, by a consi- derable degree of lateral motion at every step he takes. All the large muscles that act upon the thigh bone, turn it, and consequently the whole limb outwards, so that it appears evidently the intention of nature, that we should walk with our feet slightly turned to that direction ; but I will not detain you, by shewing in what various ways this position of the limb contributes to the facility of our motion, and the security ot our support. Yet there is one circumstance I may mention, though it relates to a subject rather curious than useful. There appeal >LECTURE III. 149 l 3 amongst men, as amongst horses, two dis- tinct forms, one calculated for strength, the other for speed or agility. The former is chiefly characterized in man by the short- ness of the neck and loins, the greater pro- portionate breadth of the shoulders, the broad and highly arched foot, with a much projecting heel. The latter is distinguish- able by the length of the neck and loins, the length of the thighs, by a narrower and longer foot, with a less projecting heel. Persons of the form that indicates strength o are generally shorter than those of the other figure, so that we associate an idea of the height of a person with his make. This subject was remarked by Hogarth, who says, that if the figures of Quin and Garrick were represented of the same size, i an observer would suppose Garrick to have been a tall man, and Quin a short one. Yet the contrary being the fact, he accounts for the deception, by saying, that Quin was a tall man of short proportions, and Garrick a short man with tall proportions. The Farnesian Hercules is an admirable repre- sentation of the strong form of man, but no1.50 LECTURE III. one can observe the figure without at once perceiving, that it is far better calculated for cleansing the Augean stables, than for catching the stag of CEnoe. Many of the bones which compose the skeleton are connected together without admitting of motion upon one another ; and in this case, portions of elastic gristle are interposed between them to prevent jarring, and they are tied together by un- yielding and exceedingly strong ligaments. When bones move upon one another, when a true joint is formed, the corresponding surfaces of each bone are covered by gristle, which is exquisitely smooth or polished. Between these smooth surfaces, a liquor, like white of egg, is effused to prevent their adhesion, and to facilitate their motion. The escape of this synovial liquid from the joint is prevented by capsules ; and the bones are firmly tied together by ligaments of surprizing strength, which are so con- trived as freely to admit those motions that the bones are adapted for, and to prevent any other. All the parts composing a joint151 LECTURE III. l 4 possess so little natural sensibility, that notwithstanding the violent pressure and rapid motion they undergo, wo are scarcely sensible of the parts, at which such motion is effected. I feel that some apology is requisite for detaining your attention so long upon cir- cumstances familiarly known, but not in general sufficiently contemplated, which I have been induced to do, because we are far better judges of the causes requiring mechanism, and the effects resulting; from it, than we are of the vital processes. Therefore, from this least interesting part ot anatomy, we derive the strongest con- viction of there being design and con- trivance in the construction of animals. Equal evidences of design and contrivance, and of adaptation of means to ends may be observed in the construction of the frame-work, as I may call it, of other ani- mals, as in that of man, which subject seems to me very happily displayed in Pro- fessor Cuvier’s lectures. Yet there are some who presume to find fault with the152 LECTURE 111, mechanism of the human skeleton. An excellent anatomist once said, there was not a well made joint in the whole body; but he was then talking as a carpenter, like one who had no means of judging of the works of nature, but by comparing them with our own limited designs and perform- ances. It was however the comparing the mechanism of the hand and foot that led Galen, who they say was a sceptic in his youth, to the public declaration of his opi- nion that intelligence must have operated in ordaining the laws by which living be- ings are constructed. That Galen was a mail of very superior intellect could be readily proved were it necessary. I have often known the passage I allude to, made a sub- ject of reference, but not of quotation, and therefore I recite it on the present occa- sion, and particularly because it shews that Galen was not in the least degree tinctured with superstition. “ In explaining these things,” he says, “ I esteem myself as com- posing a solemn hymn to the gieat archi- tect of our bodily frame; in which I think there is more true piety, than in sacrificing 1153 LECTURE III. hecatombs of oxen, or in burning the most costly perfumes; for I first endeavour, from his works, to know him myself, and afterwards, by the same means, to shew him to others, to inform them how great is his Wisdom, his Goodness, his Power.” There are, however, other structures in the body besides what I have just denomi- nated the frame-work. Doctor Hunter could never demonstrate the back part of the human throat, the passages by which we swallow and respire, and the mechanism by which the extremely diversified intonations of the human voice are produced, without enthusiasm. Who, also, can examine the lachrymal parts of the human eye, without admiration. But why do we admire these things ? Is it not because we understand them. We see the necessity for contriv- ances, and we find them constructed be- yond our highest expectations, and per- fectly adequate to effect the purposes for which we believe them designed. The same conclusion must, therefore, in reason, be drawn from the examination of the154< LECTURE III. structures we meet with in living beings, as that which has been deduced from the con- sideration of the works of nature in ge- neral, by the most intelligent and best in- formed men. That what we understand, seems excellent in a degree far exceeding our ordinary conceptions, yet appearing more and more so in proportion as it is minutely examined and attentively consi- dered ; and that we understand so much of the works of nature, as to warrant us in concluding, that we can only cease to ad- mire, when we fail to understand.( 155 ) LECTURE IV. ON DIGESTION. I hose bodies which we call living, are chiefly characterised by their powers of con- verting; surrounding; substances into their own nature ; of building up the structure of their own bodies, and repairing the in- juries they may accidentally sustain. They not only differ considerably from each other in their size and external form, but also in their internal structure. Vegetables im- bibe watery fluids from the earth, in which saline and other matters are dissolved or suspended, and these, in the very vessels of the vegetable, become the sap or nutri- tive fluid of the plant. This ascends with celerity and force ; forms the leaves, flow- ers, and fruit, in which it is more particu- larly exposed to the influence of light, heat, and air ; then returns and augments the woody stems and trunk, impregnates them with juices which concrete, even- 12156 LECTURE IV. tually descends to the roots, to nourish and increase them, and in various instances, to form means and materials, for the future production of vegetables of the same kind. Such is the view of the nourishment of vegetables, exhibited of late by Mr. Knight, in his papers published in the Philosophi- cal Transactions, and which has been drawn from the results of numerous well contrived and satisfactory experiments. The ascend- ing sap has in it no marked peculiarity, being equally fitted to form the leaf, the flower, and the fruit; for he has engrafted the stalk, upon which each of these has been produced, upon the same kind of stem. Also, by dividing the descending vessels, he has stopped the formation of the parts below ; and by performing this experiment in the root, he has prevented the growth of the potatoe, and even caused it to be injected from these descending vessels by which it is formed and supported. In viewing the subject, according to this sketch, we cannot but feel surprize, that157 LECTURE IV. the vessels of plants should imbibe the law juices of the earth, however impregnated, and so suddenly convert them into sap, which is a very peculiar fluid ; for it seems a more wonderful kind of digestion than that which takes place even in the stomachs of animals. Here, however, the experi- ments of Mr. Knight seem to aid our con- ceptions, by shewing, that the returning vessels impregnate the plant with juices, which concrete, and are probably dissolved in the ascending watery sap, enriching it with nourishment, and it may be, chemi- cally aiding in its formation. Mr. Knight finds that the specific gravity of the wood of trees, is diminished by the ascent of the sap. Thus, when the genial warmth of the spring, excites those actions which imbibe the juices of the earth, and cause the ascent of the sap, the plant seems bursting with life and nutriment. The leaves bud in every part, and are formed with surprizing celerity. When, however, the tree has attained its full extent of an- nual growth, the returning sap is more especially employed in storing the inter-158 LECTURE IV. stices with materials to serve for nourish- ment in the succeeding spring ; and to this Mr. Knight attributes the increased spe- cific gravity of wood felled in the winter season. It is in the leaf, however, that the distri- buted fluids of plants seem to undergo their chief elaboration ; for here they are more freely exposed to the influence of light, heat, and air ; much, also, is manifestly thrown off by perspiration ; and much is probably added, so as to render these juices competent to form, under the agency of the vital energies, that extreme diversity of substances which we meet with in the leaf, the flower, the trunk, and the roots. In animals, the matters by which they are nourished, is in general taken into a receptacle or stomach, where it undergoes a process called digestion ; and so analo- gous are the functions of life in vegetables and the lower kinds of animals, that Mr. Hunter considered this circumstance asLECTURE IV. 159 the chief criterion of’ distinction between the two classes. I believe him to have been the first person who broached and established the now generally received opi- nions respecting digestion. His observa- tions and reflections suggested to him, that the liquors secreted by or poured into the stomach, had the surprizing power of dis- solving the dissimilar food by which dif- ferent animals are nourished, and convert- ing it into a substance sui generis; this being the first and most important step to sanguification, or its ultimate conversion into that nutritive fluid which is distri- buted to every part of their bodies, for their formation and support. Mr. Hunter knew that the gastric fluids were neither acid nor alkaline, nor endowed with any predominant quality, such as would induce us to suppose they had these wonder-working powers. He was fully ap- prized of the variety of substances from vhicli different animals thus derive their nourishment. He mentions that the vo- lacious caterpillar which eats such quanti-160 LECTURE IV. ties of the leaves of plants, digests only their juices, and voids the leaf dry, which will afterwards unfold itself in warm water as tea-leaves do. He knew that the fibrous matter of vegetables, and the husks of grain, are in general not susceptible of di- gestion by the gastric fluids ; and yet that some insects live upon them. Indeed they first pour upon the woody substance a li- quor which dissolves it, and in this state they swallow and digest it. Thus also does that foe to literature, the book-worm, make his way through the most massy folios, solving the most diffi- cult passages, and digesting all as he pro- ceeds. Indeed he pours his sauce, or cook- ing liquors with such profusion, as to tinge and affect the texture of the leaves to some distance round the circumference of the tunnel which he makes. Some creatures also thrive best upon animal substances in a disgusting and noxious state of putie- faction. Therefore it is evident, that life can by means of the fluids it prepares, con- vert to its own purposes substances which161 LECTURE IV. are ordinarily most innutritive or perni- cious. Although the gastric fluids have no sensibty distinguishing character, yet Mr. Hunter knew that they not only coagu- lated milk, but white of egg, and other nutritive fluids ; thus first rendering them solid, that they might be detained in the stomach till they underwent the peculiar solution, called digestion.* He knew that the gastric fluids checked and prevented the natural decomposition of animal and vege- table matter ; that if putrid meat were swallowed by a hungry dog, it quickly lost all foetor, and that no fermentation or pu- trefaction of food ever takes place in the stomach, if the gastric juices be healthy; therefore it followed that digestion could not be the result of any common fermenta- tive process. Nay, he further knew that the gastric fluids sometimes dissolved even the stomach itself. Mr. Hunter could not wonder that such an event did not more * He says he had examined this subject, and found the coagulation to take place in the various kinds of ani- mals, downwards as far as fish. MICS LECTURE IV. frequently take place; lor when persons die of disease, the gastric fluids have not for a long time been prepared, or they have been of an unhealthy quality, so that they are incompetent to dissolve the smallest quantity of the most digestible food, if ' taken into the stomach. Mr. Hunter could never wonder that the gastric fluids did not act upon the living stomach, for he full well knew that life was a chemist which regu- lated its own chemical operations, and con- trolled the effect of foreign chemical agency. He was, I believe, the first who plainly told the public, that chemical agents do not in general act upon living, as they do upon dead animal matter. He knew that worms live in the stomach, and yet that a meal of dead worms would form no innutritive re- past to an hungry dog. He must have known also that the peculiar fluid which digests the food is not secreted at all times, but only when the stomach is excited by the stimu- lus of food, and even then but under favour- ing circumstances. If in this state persons are suddenly killed by accident, the gastric fluids will continue for some time to act,168 LECTURE IV. m 2 not only upon the food, but also upon the stomach itself, so as to form a large aper- ture by which the contents escape. Having reflected upon all these circum- stances, and made numerous experiments on the subject of digestion, we find him afterwards employed to open the body of a patient (who died when attended by Sir John Pringle, then president of the Royal Society,) in which a partial solution of the stomach had taken place. The appearance was to Sir John both new and unaccount- able ; but when Mr. Hunter told him that it was not the effect of disease, but of solu- tion by the gastric fluids ; that lie had fre- quently seen it, and that it made one of the reasons which induced him to believe di- gestion to be the effect of a solution of the food by the gastric fluid; the president urged him to draw up a paper on the sub- ject ; which was printed in the year 1772, in the 62cl volume of the Philosophical Transactions. This paper attracted the at- tention of Spalanzani and others, and led them to make and publish experiments164. LECTURE IV. tending to demonstrate the fact, which is thus announced in the conclusion of Mr. Hunter’s observations ; “ that digestion neither depends on mechanical powers, nor contractions of the stomach, nor on heat * ; but on something secreted in the coats of the stomach, and thrown into its cavity, which there assimilates the food to the na- ture of the blood.” As, however, Mr. Hunter, in a second paper on digestion, has published his own commentary on the proceedings of those, who may be said to be his coadjutors in the proof of the fact, but who might ap- pear to himself and the public as compe- titors in the discovery, I need not say any thing respecting this subject. Yet there is one point which I feel it a duty to advert to. Mr. Hunter, whom I should not have believed to be very scrupulous about in- dicting sufferings upon animals, neverthe- less censures Spalanzani for the unmeaning * He might have substituted the word fermentation, for heat, for it would more plainly have conveyed his meaning.LECTURE IV. 165 repetition of similar experiments. Having resolved publicly to express my own opi- nions with respect to this subject, I choose the present opportunity to do it, because I believe Spalanzani to have been one of those who have tortured and destroyed ani- mals in vain. I do not perceive that in the two principal subjects which he sought to elucidate, he has added any important fact to our stock ol knowledge: besides, some of his experiments are of a nature, that a good man would have blushed to think of, and a wise man would have been ashamed to publish ; for they prove no fact requiring to be proved, and only shew that the afore- said Abbe was a filthy-minded fellow. - The design of experiments is to interro- gate nature ; and surely the enquirer ought to make himself acquainted with the lan- guage of nature, and take care to propose pertinent questions; he ought further to consider the probable kind of replies that may be made to his enquiries, and the in- ferences that he may be warranted in draw- ing from different responses; so as to be m 3165 LECTURE IV. able to determine whether by the com- mission of cruelty he is likely to obtain adequate instruction. Indeed before we make experiments on sensitive beings, we ought further to consider whether the in- formation we seek may not be attainable by other means. I am aware of the ad- vantages which have been derived from such experiments when made by persons of talent, and who have properly prepared themselves, but I also know that these experiments tend to harden the feelings, which often leads to the unnecessary and inconsiderate performance of them. Surely we should endeavour to foster, and not to stifle, benevolence, the best sen- timent of our nature, that which is pro- ductive of the greatest gratification and advantage both to its possessor and to others. Considering the professors in this place as the organs of the court of the college; addressing its members, I feel that 1 act as becomes a senior of this Institution, whilst admitting the propriety of the practice under the foregoing re- strictions, I at the same time express an ear- 1167 LECTURE IV. m 4 nest hope that the character of an English surgeon may never be tarnished by the commission of inconsiderate or unnecessary cruelty. I need not, Gentlemen, caution you, who must feel anxious to maintain the respectability as well as the reputation of the medical character, against publishing experiments disgusting to common decency. Now though Mr. Hunter clearly per- ceived that liquors could be and were pre- pared, possessed of surprising powers of assimilating the food to the nutritive fluids of the animal, he was likewise equally ap- prized of the variety of means which na- ture has instituted to prepare the food for digestion, and facilitate the action of the gastric fluids. With this intention, some animals are made to grind or comminute their food with their teeth, but this is not essential to the function of digestion, neither does it take place in the majority of animals. Therefore Mr. Hunter seems, in his Museum, to have placed the teeth amongst the weapons and instruments which are allotted to animals.LECTURE IV. 168 Many carnivorous animals, he observes, divide their food no further than is neces- sary to enable them to swallow it; and all animals whose food requires this degree ol subdivision must have means to effect it. Mr. Hunter has shewn that cuttle fish have beaks like birds; and that worms have osseous teeth fixed in the fleshy circles that form their mouths. He has placed the pie- parations which shew these and similar facts in a department of his Museum, allotted to shew peculiarities belonging to individuals of any species or genus of animals, which do not belong to others of the same kind ; and not among the preparations display ing the anatomical facts relating to digestion in general. Mr. Hunter studied anatomy as a physiologist, he investigated stiucture in order to understand function, and he has omitted to record or exhibit many anato- mical facts, with which he doubtless was acquainted, because they did not seem to lead to any physiological conclusion. Herbivorous animals in general grind their food with their teeth; nay those whoLECTURE IV. 169 spend a life of leisure and repose, are made to ruminate or remasticate their lood, whilst other vegetable feeders, and I may cite the horse as a familiar instance, whose life is probably destined to more continual exertion, do not ruminate. The horse how- ever has a constant propensity to feed, and the food passes readily from his small sto- mach ; therefore, he would waste a great deal of food, had not Nature provided him with most capacious intestines, and con- trived to produce a kind of second stomach and digestion in that part of the bowels called the intestinum caecum. Mr. Hunter was fully apprized that many of the insects, of the lower kinds of ani- mals, and some fish, have teeth of various sorts fixed in their stomachs to divide and comminute their food. He was convinced that birds do not swallow stones from mere stupidity as Spalanzani supposed, but to serve as temporary teeth, or as mill stones to grind their food under the operation of their powerful gizzards. In his paper on the stomach of the gallaroo trout, he says that, “ the English trout swallows shell fish,170 LECTURE IV. and also pretty large smooth stones, which serve for shell-breakers.” He also says, “ the mullet has a stronger stomach than the gallaroo trout, but that they have neither the power, nor motion, nor horny lining of true gizzards.” Gizzards, like teeth, serve to subdivide the food, and thereby increase the surface on which the gastric fluids may act so as to facilitate its solution. Though birds in general have gizzards for this purpose, Mr. Hunter knew, that those which feed on flesh have them formed with their muscular and internal coat so thin, as scarcely to be re- cognizable for such organs. By feeding a rook with bread, he found that the muscular power of his stomach became much in- creased, and its lining much thickened and hardened; a fact corresponding to many other observations he had made, shewing that the vital powers could alter the organi- zation of parts, so as to adapt them to exi- gencies. Another mode of preparing food for so- lution by the gastric fluids, is by a kind ofLECTURE IV. 171 maceration, generally in warm and moist places, a kind of cooking process, for which probably the complex stomachs of ruminat- ing and other animals are designed. In ruminating animals which have four sto- machs, the first or paunch, is a reservoir from which the food is thrown up to be re- masticated ; the fourth digests the food ; but the exact function of the intermediate stomachs is unknown. Mr. Hunter has not omitted to display the contrivance by which in the calf, the milk is made to pass directly into the fourth stomach for diges- tion, without entering the others. The crops of birds and various other animals are also to be considered as macerating pouches, and which gradually supply materials for the operation of the gizzard. Their con- tents are likewise sometimes regurgitated, for thus does the bee store its cell with honey, and some birds feed their young. Mr. Hunter was fully apprised that many of the insects, and of the lower kinds of j animals have complex stomachs, crops, and gizzards j and he has shewn these facts172 LECTURE IV. among the peculiarities to which I have already referred- That digestion, or the solution of the food by the gastric fluids, takes place in some particular district, and not elsewhere, is, Mr. Hunter says, to be inferred, from observing that in fish and serpents, which swallow more prey at once than the stomach can contain, that portion of their food onty, which is in the stomach, is dissolved, whilst that which is in the gullet undergoes no such change. Also from observing, that the yolk of the egg, which is conveyed into the intestines of the chicken, ascends into the stomach before it can be digested; Mr. Hunter was fully apprized, that parts of a single stomach might secrete the solvent O O liquors, and not the whole bag. He ob- serves, that part of the stomach in several animals, is covered by cuticle, like the first, second, and third stomachs of those which ruminate. This occurs in the peccari, hog, rat and horse. The fact of digestion oc- curring partially in the stomach, he says, is also evident in that of a dog, into whichLECTURE IV. 173 a large piece of meat has been swallowed at once. Towards the great end, the food will be found but little altered, towards the middle more, and towards the pylorus it will be similar to that which is found in the duodenum. Mr. Hunter was apprized, that the duodenum in some animals, might be considered as serving to digest the food; for it is formed of considerable capacity, resembling a stomach, and is chiefly recog- nized by anatomists as that intestine, in consequence of the biliary and pancreatic ducts terminating in it. He also perceived, that when the pylorus is not detentive, the gastric fluids might flow into the duodenum, mid there complete the process of digestion. The solvent liquors are secreted from the lining of the stomach, or sometimes poured into it from glands situated at its upper opening. The latter is commonly found in birds, because the lining of their sto- machs is formed for trituration, and conse- quently not for secretion. Yet the same kind of structure is met with in other ani- mals, and even among quadrupeds in the 4LECTURE IV. 17^ beaver. According to Mr. Hunter’s no- tions of secretion, it must have appeared to him a subject of no importance whether the gastric liquor was secreted by particular glands or otherwise : for secretion is an uni- CJ versal function, and can take place as well from surfaces as glands. He was indeed anxious to note every variety of structure, and, as I believe, also in order to observe whether any thing could be found contra- dictory to his opinion that the several vital functions were the result of the actions of a principle distinct from the organization iu which it inhered. It must surely be curious and interesting to all, to be informed, that his opinions respecting secretion, opinions at the time which seemed almost inexpressible to him- self, and incomprehensible to others, have been most perfectly verified by experiments subsequently made with a view to deter- mine facts relative to digestion. Mr. Hun- - ter thought that a subtile principle ol life was diffused throughout the body, that it inhered in the solids, and was the cause of175 LECTURE IV. their different vital affections ; that it per- vaded certain fluids, which it could either modify, decompose, or recombine, and thus produce the extreme variety of new substances, that may and do result from one kind of nutritive and universally dis- tributed fluid. He had no mode to ex- press the idea ; nor could any one dis- cover a better than by saying, that spe- cific and peculiar actions will produce specific and peculiar secretions. I have already told you, Gentlemen, how these terms were cavilled at. Mr. Hunter thought, that the vital principle was parti- cularly accumulated in the brain, in those animals which possessed such an organ, and that it seemed in them a kind of source of vital energies, and that the nerves were internunciate chords, by which the affec- tions of life were reciprocally communicated. The verification of Mr. Hunter’s opinions must interest all, because they show how justly we may infer causes, by the indus- trious observation, and patient and accurate contemplation of effects ; and therefore the result is creditable to human intellect, andLECTURE IV. 176 gives us confidence in other opinions which are thus deduced. I shall briefly relate the experiments to which I have just al- luded. Doctor Haigliton, after having fed a hungry dog whose stomach was empt}, with flesh meat, divides the eighth pair of nerves which go from the brain, to be distributed to the stomach, and thus pre- vents or disturbs those vital actions, which are necessary to the preparation of the gas- tric fluid. Consequently, when after many hours, he kills the dog, he finds the food in /the stomach perfectly undigested, and but little changed. He performs a similar experiment, but only divides one of the nerves of the eighth pair, and the dog be- comes dyspeptic, having eructations and manifest uneasiness about the stomach ; which symptoms continue for several weeks: and though the dog eats the food which is given to him, he becomes much emaciated, yet gradually recovers, as the divided nerve re-unites and resumes its functions. In like ' manner, Mr. Brodie having observed, thawLECTURE IV. 177 the administration of arsenic was uniformly followed by profuse secretion of mucus and watery liquors into the stomach, divides the nerves of the eighth pair in dogs, and then administers the poison, but no secre- tions are afterwards effused into the sto- mach. * Professor Harwood of Cambridge gives to two dogs, equal in age, health, and ap- petite, equal quantities of flesh meat. They were pointers, and he suffers one of the dogs to do what nature indicated to be fa- vourable to digestion, to lie down by the fire and go to sleep ; but he entices the other into the fields, and causes him to hunt about for game. After some hours he kills both dogs, and finds the food in the stomach of the dog which had been kept in constant exercise, undigested and but little changed; whilst in the other it had, in the same time, not only been di- gested by the stomach, but converted into chyle by the intestines, and was rapidly passing through their absorbent vessels * Philos. Trans. 1814. NLECTURE IV. 178 in the high road to the sanguiferous system. No one is disposed to doubt the results of these experiments, for every one is more or less convinced, by his own feelings, that affections of the mind, and bodily exertion, will, by disturbing or otherwise occupying the nervous energies, diminish or prevent appetite and digestion. The pylorus, or opening by which the •stomach communicates with the intestinal tube, is variously formed in different ani- mals, allowing or preventing, in various de- grees, the transit of alimentary matter. In the human stomach it is a small circular and muscular aperture, admitting of occa- sional dilatation, so as sometimes to give passage to a body of the diameter of half a crown, yet ordinarily so contracted as to detain even fluids in the cavity of the sto- mach ; else how could we distend it with liquors as we sometimes do. It may be useful to mention a case which serves to illustrate the degree in which such deten-179 LECTURE IV. n 2 tion may occasionally occur, A misera- ble woman took opium during the night in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital in order to destroy herself’, and before she was noticed next morning her purpose was nearly ac- complished. With scarcely any hopes, I injected into her stomach, by means of a varnished catheter introduced down the oesophagus from the right nostril, some le- monade, to which cordials and a solution of sulphat of zinc were added, in hopes of ex- citing the stomach and provoking it to vomit. Having injected in repeated doses what appeared to me to be a fully suffi- cient quantity, and waited till no hopes of success remained, I left the room. Some of the students however, knowing the case to be desperate, injected more of the liquor, and when the body was afterwards examined, the stomach and gullet were found filled and distended up to the throat ; nay a small quantity of the liquor had ac- tually overflowed the rima glottidis, and descended by the windpipe into the lungs. On the contrary however, the pylorus in theLECTURE IV. 180 horse gives ready passage to liquids, and even to the fibrous part of the food. That animal will drink at once three or four times more water than his stomach can contain, which passes rapidly through his intestines till it arrives at his capacious caecum, where it lodges. He continues to eat in like manner, and the surplus of food must readily pass through the pylorus before it has been completely digested ; on which account he would waste a great deal ol food, had not nature contrived to produce a kind of second stomach and digestion in that part of the bowels called the intestinum cascum. Mr. Coleman, professor at the veterinary college, suffered a thirsty horse, which was to be killed, to drink as much water as he chose, and after six minutes, the alimen- tary canal being examined, it was found that the water had passed from the stomach through the small intestines, a distance of sixty feet, and was collected in the caecum*I LECTURE IV- LSI Mr. Coleman supposes that nature has al- lotted to the horse but a small stomach, that the food might not, by being accumu- lated, impede the action of the diaphragm, and affect that free respiration which his speed of progression requires. Having shewn what Mr. Hunter knew and thought with respect to digestion, as carried on in cavities allotted for that pur- pose, it is proper to add, he was fully apprized that the same process could take place without the preparation and aid of solvent liquors. Both analogy and observation warrant the supposition, that some animals have no digestive organs, and that their vessels, like those of vegetables, imbibe and distribute what becomes nutritious in the vessels themselves. No one has, I believe, seen digestive organs in the tenia ; from various apertures we are able to inject different kind of vessels, so that this animal appeal’s to be very vascular in every part, which is, 1 believe, as much as is known respecting n 3182 LECTURE IV. its anatomy. In the fluke also, whose food is gall, and which lives and multiplies in the biliary ducts of sheep, we see the gall imbibed from an orifice into a ves- sel which sends off branches to ail parts of the animal, apparently becoming its dis- tributive or nutrient vessel. II this be true, bile, which is formed from the blood of the sheep, is reconverted into the blood of the fluke, and forms the fleshy substance of this animal. It was one ol the distin- guishing characters, and greatest perplex- ities of Mr. Hunter’s Physiology, that he asserted vessels could modify their contents, so that a kind of digestion may be said to take place every where by the immediate action of the vital powers. The structure of the last-mentioned animals, as far as it is known, is exhibited in the collection, and the preparations were given to Mr. Hunter by Mr. Carlisle, who made them whilst a student. The hydatid seems to be nourished in like manner. Analogy would induce us to believe that it was nourished, like vege- 1183 LECTURE IV. n 4 tables, by absorption from without. 01 its organization however we are perfectly igno- rant, for no evident structure can be dis- cerned, even by the aid of the microscope. These animalcules are found in the na- tural cavities, or in those formed in conse- quence of disease, in the bodies of other animals. We meet with them in the abdo- men, in bursae mucosae, and in cysts in the brain, liver, and other organs. The form of one species is a globular or oval bag which has an undulatory motion when put into tepid water. The bag contains a transparent fluid. Young hydatids form upon the bag, are detached when very small, float about in the liquor of the cavities in which they dwell, to grow and to multiply as their parents have done. Now in a phy- siological point of view* we must consider hydatids to be nourished by absorption from without, or suppose the bag to be a digesting cavity, though no aperture is dis- cernible. In the department of the Museum allotted to display the structure of the di- gestive organs, Mr. Hunter has first put up some hydatids, as if to mark the uncer-LECTURE IV. 1S4 tainty of our knowledge with regard to the nourishment of this and some other ani- mals. With such exceptions, all other animals have a digesting cavity, and the lowest or- ders appear to have no other organs, the whole interior being stomach, and the whole animal forming only the walls by which it is surrounded and supported, as is exem- plified in actiniae and medusae. Mr. Hun- ter, in his M.S. of the year 1776, writes as follows: “ The apparatus necessary for digestion is as simple as any thing we can well conceive. It only requires a bag or cavity fit to contain the substance to be digested, joined with the power of furnish- ing the fluid capable of digesting -the said substance. It is therefore to be considered as a gland and a cavity. Indeed, it is ne- cessary, that another apparatus should be added ; a system for absorbing the digested food and nourishing the bag, as well as preparing the fluid it secretes.” Before this time, Mr. Hunter had injected the ves- sels of medusae from the stomach with co-LECTURE IV. 185 loured glue, and their distribution is parti- cularly beautiful. He was well acquainted with the fact that fluids may be imbibed from various apertures in the branches or members of these animals, and conveyed through tubes into a common cavity, which I merely mention to shew that he was ac- quainted with that form of animal called rhizostome or root-mouthed. As an evidence of an animal being little else than a stomach, Mr. Hunter has exhi- bited a specimen of the actinia associata. The mouth, which is surrounded by tenta- cula, leads into a cavity, like the finger of a glove, the animal being no more than the substance which forms the walls of this cavity. Mr. Hunter, in his M.S. proceeds to say, “ that in some animals the stomach has but one aperture, serving equally to receive the food, and reject its residue. In others a distinct aperture is allotted for each of these functions. As the digestive organs become complicated, we find the stomach or digesting cavity has added to it an intes- tinal tube, in which the food undergoesLECTURE IV. 186 stilJ further changes; and this tube is also subdivided into two parts, and different functions are allotted to each. Glandular structures are also added, which prepare fluids subservient to the functions of the intestinal canal.” i In the small intestines, the food is con- verted, in the higher order of animals, into chyle, which is a fluid very much resembling blood, and chiefly differing from it in its colour; so speedily and so nearly is the ultimate object of sanguifi- cation accomplished. The effect produced on the food in the intestines will be in proportion to the secreting surface of the canal, which pours on it peculiar liquors, and to the duration of its stay in the bow- els. These objects are accomplished by the length and convoluted form of the canal, by its lining projecting and being formed into plaits, either transverse, longitudinal, spiral, or reticulated ; by the formation of smaller fossae or larger sacculi. Every variety in the animals hereafter mention- ed is displayed, and so beautifully are thelecture IV. 187 preparations injected, and so neatly put up, that these objects, which we generally view with disgust, attract the attention of stran- gers, who regard them as the most beautiful preparations in the whole collection. It is nearly at the commencement of the intes- tinal tube, that the bile and pancreatic li- quors are poured into it. Mr. Hunter, in his paper on digestion, says u it appears from many experiments, that the digested or animalized part, when carried into the intestine, clings to the internal coat, as if entangled among the villi; whilst the ex- crementitious part and bile are found lying unconnected, in the gut, and as if separated from the other.” This fact was more fully explained, and also exhibited in this theatre, by Mr. Astley Cooper, when he held the office of professor of Anatomy and Surgery to the College. He told us, that the gastric juices first dissolved that food which was most susceptible of digestion, thus affording an argument against much variety of viands; that the substance dissolved was discoverable in the solvent, and gave a character to the solution ; thus the chyle prepared from188 LECTURE IV. animal or vegetable substances partook of the nature of such substances, and if dried and burned, emitted the same odour, and produced similar results to those which occur from the decomposition of the same substances before they have undergone such solution. Nay, he told us further, that the chyle formed from animal matter rapidly putrified, whilst that prepared from vege- tables was slow in undergoing a similar change. As an abundance of nitrogene seems to be the base of animal substances, so its disposition to combine with hydro- gene, and to form ammonia, seems readily to break up the general bond of union of the parts forming the compound. Whilst engaged in examining the chyle, he also ex- amined the lymph which the absorbent ves- sels contain, and his chemical friends, who were men of great knowledge and ability re- port, that it is in all respects like the blood, except that it wants the globular particles and colour of that fluid, a proof that these vessels, as well as others, modify their con- tents, which is a physiological subject, I shall subsequently have to discuss.LECTURE IV.' 189 Mr. Cooper shewed us how firm a sub- stance the digested aliment had become, and how tenaciously it adhered to the villous surface or lining ot the intestines, so that it might be mistaken for a part of that surface; and how turgid the vessels of the intestines appeared when the chyle was separated from it; the whole surface ap- pearing as if highly inflamed or subtilely injected. This he attributed to the digested aliment having acquired, in consequence of undergoing the process of digestion, the property which is characteristic of the blood ; that of spontaneous coagulation, so as to become solid and tough, in which state the coagulum of either may firmly adhere to the surface with which it hap- pens to be in contact. The gastric fluids are detained in the sto- mach, and therefore not wasted, and the last mentioned circumstance interested me, because it showed how the succus intestinalis is prevented from being wasted, and its action confined to that substance which it is designed to convert into chyle,190 LECTURE IV. whilst the excreraentitious matter alone remained loose in the calibre of the intes- tines, and at liberty to be urged on by their peristaltic actions. Nav, Mr. Cooper further shewed us that the same circum- stances also obtained in the large intes- tines, that portion of the alimentary matter which could be modified and rendered meet for absorption, acquiring an adhesive pro- perty and clinging to the surface, which accomplished these purposes. It is well known that a great and sudden change is wrought in the contents of the alimentary canal, immediately on its transit from the small into the large intestines, that a valve is formed to prevent any com- munication between them in a retrograde course; that the commencement of the large intestines, usually called the cascum, is in herbivorous animals particularly capa- cious, and apparently calculated for detain- ing the alimentary matter ; and in some, as in the horse, this portion of the alimentary canal is of surprising magnitude ; that the extent of surface of the lining of the large in-LECTURE IV. 391 testines is much more ample in herbivorous than in carnivorous animals. So that from these and other observations, it is believed that the residue of the alimentary matter undergoes a great change in them, pro- duced by the qualities of the liquors they secrete, and that this change prevents a spontaneous chemical decomposition of the contents, and conduces to the extraction of whatever may be useful from the residue of the food. But I shall not detain your attention on this subject, because I have al- ready briefly expressed my opinions respect- ing it. I omit many things, for I only at- tempt to explain what I believe were Mr. Hunter’s opinions on certain points in phy- siology. Sir E. Home has already told us how industriously he noted the varieties of the formation of this part of the alimentary canal in different animals. Though I must not proceed to describe in detail the facts which Mr. Hunter exhi- bits, with respect to the structure of the digestive organs of different animals, yet I shall mention in what variety they are dis-192 LECTURE IV. played, because it will shew you, in some degree, the extent of his researches in Com- parative Anatomy ; and also, because you will find the other vital organs, exhibited in the same animals, provided they admit of it, in all the different departments of the Museum. A great number of other animals will, however, be found in other depart- ments, which are not included in this, for, though such animals may exhibit interesting varieties in other vital organs, they contain no remarkable peculiarity in those concerned in digestion. Mr. Hunter examined the structure of echini, Crustacea, and some molusca with particular attention, and caused drawings of exquisite beauty to be made of them. I take this opportunity to shew you some of these drawings, and to inform you that there are probably one thousand of them belonging to the collec- tion. Mr. Hunter was particularly fond of drawings and paintings, and consequently rather fastidious as to the representations given of the objects in which he took so great an interest. There was no poor artist ot talent in this town, that he did not befriend 12193 LECTURE IV. to the utmost of his power. Every man of genius was, indeed, his brother, and lie felt a fraternal interest in his success. Mr. Hunter has shewn, in liis Museum, the digestive cavities amongst ZOOPHYTES. In polypes, actinia, zoanthus and medusae. ECHINODERMATA. Various echini, asteriades, holothuriee, and sipuncu- lus nudus. INSECTS. Gryllns cristatus, gryllo-talpa, ceshna, musca tenax, (Lin.), cicada, bees, beetles, silk-worm, termites. CRUSTACEA. Crabs, lobsters, and cray-fish. VERMES. Aphrodita aculeata, amphinome, nereis, terebella, lumbricus terrestris, hirudo. ANIMALS INHABITING OTHERS. Hydatigena, taenia, ascaris, echinorhynchi. MOLUSCA. Sepia officinalis, loligo, octopus, lepas aurita and others. Coronula diadema, chiton, haliotis, doris, 0LECTURE IV. 194 clio, bulla apcrta, chama, pecten, mya, teredo navalis, ascidia intestinalis, clavata, salpa. FISH. Skate, torpedo, sturgeon, various sharks, tetraodon, lamprey, annarrhichas, (gillaroo trout), mullet. REPTILES. Testudo, lacerta agilis, gecko, alligator, rana, siren, lacertina. BIRDS. Swan, common pigeon, crowned pigeon, ostrich, cas- sowary of New South Wales, East Indian bittern, So- lan goose, pelican, turkey, raven, rook, crow, and guU. MAMMALIA. Man, dog, lion, beaver, porcupine, hare, rat, ant- eater, manis, opossum, wombat, ornithorynchus, sloth, bear, peccari, hog, guinea-pig, call, goat, elk, deer, camel, horse, various cetacea.( 195 ) LECTURE V. ON THE ABSORBING VESSELS. Next to the organs which digest the food, there are displayed in the Museum, those vessels which imbibe it from the bowels, and convey it, in the higher classes of animals, into the sanguiferous system. Mr. Hunter, having convinced himself by observations and experiments which are published, that these vessels are the only ones which perform the function of ab- sorption, attributed the removal of every thing in the interior of the body to these minute, highly susceptible, but undiscerni- ble agents. Believing that secretion or deposition was a process very generally going on throughout the body, he used to call the absorbents, the modelling vessels, from perceiving that if secretion exceeded absorption in any part, increase of bulk and deformity would ensue. He was led o 2LECTURE V. 196 on by degrees to believe, that these vessels* acting in excess, took away the very substance of which parts or organs were composed, so as to create large chasms in them. Seeing what things were done, and under what circumstances they took place, he was led to advert to the causes which excite or diminish the actions of these wonder-working vessels; but the advan- tages we have derived, in the practice of our profession, from the researches of Mr. Hunter with respect to this subject, have already been the theme of several lectures which I have had the honour of delivering in this theatre. When his opinions on the functions ol the absorbents were first promulgated, they appeared to others, not merely wild, but absolutely incredible; and when he was asked, how he could suppose it possi- ble for these vessels to do such things as he attributed to them, he answered, nay, I know not, unless they possess powers simi- lar to those which a caterpillar exerts, when feeding on a leaf. I relate this anecdote*LECTURE V. 197 o 3 merely to shew that Mr. Hunter was one of those who could believe, there must be means adequate to produce effects, though they were undiscoverable by our senses, li is interesting to know how generally opi- nions, which he first broached and esta- blished respecting the absorbents, are now received and adopted; for it is a striking proof of the facility and firmness with which we believe what is probable, when we have no motive for contesting or denying it. All seem convinced of things scarcely explicable without requiring that kind of proof which some are accustomed to demand on other occasions. i The first preparation which Mr. Hunter has put up in this department of his col- lection is a common hyacinth root; which I cannot believe exhibits any thing more than may be observed with a glance of the eye, in the windows of our houses, during the spring season.. We see the succulent roots descending from the tuber, and the leaves beginning to bud. I cannot believe that Mr. Hunter, or others, have ever seen198 LECTURE V. the minute absorbing vessels which must, nevertheless, exist in these roots, conse- quently, I conclude that he exhibited this preparation merely as an argument; as if he had said, you must grant me that there are vessels to imbibe the juices of the earth which afterwards become the sap or nutri- tive fluid of the plant; and I am convinced there are similar vessels to perform a simi- lar function in all parts of animal bodies. After having been teazed and perplexed by sceptics, he could only reply from analogy, and therefore, I suppose he put up this root, which though it shews little to the eye of sense, he thought might demon- strate much to the eye of reason. Mr. Hunter, however, has exhibited in this department of his Museum, many spe- cimens of what may be considered as the trunks of these undemonstrably minute vessels. He also injected them in whales, to shew their analogy to those found in other mammalia, and that they were very minute vessels, even in such monstrous animals.199 LECTURE V. I was acquainted with Mr. Hunter at a period of his life when he must have greatly interested any one, who duly appre- ciated the results of his talents and labours, or who had any sympathy for the highly susceptible mind of genius, rendered still more so by excess of exertion, and the per- turbed feelings incident to bodily disease. He seemed to me conscious of his own de- sert, of the insufficiency and uncertainty of his acquirements, and of his own ina- bility readily to communicate what he knew and thought. He felt irritated by the op-, position he had met with in establishing his opinions ; and still more by finding, when he had surmounted this difficulty, that those opinions were, by the malice of mankind, ascribed to others. All which, I think, may be fairly inferred from a single sentence he one day addressed to me. “ I know, I know,” said he, “ I am but a pigmy in knowledge, yet I feel as a giant, when compared with these men.” It interested me to find amongst the manuscripts to which I so frequently refer, a long extract from 'a k rench author, who was said to have taught o 4LECTURE V. €00 the same opinions relative to absorption before him. Mr Hunter has made his own commentary upon several of the passages, and as it seemed to him that by nothing short of a new construction of words and sentences could any resemblance of opi- nions be made to appear ; he was induced to add, *'c this reminds me of a dispute that took place between a zealous convert to the Newtonian philosophy, and a Hutchinso- nian, in which the latter having, by garbling and transposing certain passages from the Scriptures, seemingly made good a very ab- surd proposition; the latter retorted, yea but it is also written, Judas went out and hanged himself; moreover it is added, go thou and do likewise.” Those who were acquainted with Mr. Hunter, know hill well that he had a great deal of drollery in his composition. No one can read Mr. Hunter’s works without being convinced that he wras a man of perfect candour and scrupulous veracity. Such a character must be its best biogra- pher, and I am much gratified that he has, 12LECTURE V. 201 to a certain extent, published his own ac- count of his deeds and designs. The first editor of the European Magazine, printed in 1782, was well acquainted with Doctor Hunter and his brother, and being desirous of giving, in that work, an account of the distinguished schools of science both at home and abroad, he began with the lec- tures of these brothers. That the account and anecdotes of Mr. Hunter are genuine, the editor has given me the most positive assurance, adding, I received the materials from his own hand. Here John Hunter speaks for himself, but is made to tell his story with simplicity and effect, by the friendly aid of the then editor * of the ma- gazine. That Mr. Hunter acquired the best physiological knowledge of the time from his brother’s lectures cannot be doubt- * Mr. Perry, now editor of the Morning Chronicle, who superintended the publication of the European Ma- gazine at its commencement, though but for a very short time. I have annexed his account of Mr. Hunter, to this publication, because it is brief, and it must, I think, be interesting to all to be informed what were the inten- tions and objects of Mr. Hunter, in his lectures and labours."202 LECTURE V. rn ed, but he was not satisfied without examin- ing facts for himself and forming his own opinions. Therefore we find Mr. Hunter asserting that all this kind of knowledge had been the result of his own personal observations and reflections; he does not say that his opinions are new, but only that they are new to him. It was the malicious transfer of his facts and opinions to others, which, as I believe, first induced him to read, or rather to get books read to him j and we find him in every instance candidly acknowledging the claims and merits of his predecessors, whenever he discovered them. ON THE ORGANS FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF NOURISHMENT. It has been already remarked, that in some minute and even vivacious animals, no organization is discernible, and there- fore nothing can be known in them, respect- ing the subject now under consideration. There seems, however, to be a very ex-LECTURE V. 203 11 act coincidence of opinion between Hunter and Cuvier, as to the structure of the fresh water polypes, (as they are called) the hy- dra3 of Linneus. Professor Cuvier believes, that polypes are formed of a pulpy sub- stance, having pores that imbibe nourish- ment, which becomes arranged so as to constitute their bodies, and to produce their shoots or offspring. Mr. Hunter says, I have aii idea that some animals absorb their nourishment similar to a sponge, and dispose of it immediately to their own increase. To me, however, who confide more in the eye of reason, than in that of sense, and would rather form opinions from ana- logy, than from the imperfect evidence of sight, it seems too hasty an inference to conclude, that in the minute animals, there are no vessels nor other organization because we cannot see them ; or that po- lypes are actually devoid of vessels, and merely of the structure described, because we can discern no other. Were it, howe- ver, really so, such facts would then only204 LECTURE V. shew with how little, and with what various organization life could accomplish its prin- cipal functions of assimilation, formation, and multiplication. Who lias seen the multitudinous, distributive, and absorbing vessels, and all the other organization which doubtless exist in the vitreous hu- mour of the eye, than which no glass ever appeared more transparent or more seem- ingly inorganic ? How strange is it, that anatomists, above all others of the mem- bers of the community of science, should hesitate to admit the existence of what they cannot discern, since they, more than all the rest, have such constant assurance of the imperfection and fallibility of sight ? i .4^, t , , / Amongst the zoophytes, Professor Cuvier says, that in medusas and similar animals, vessels arise from their digestive cavities, which do not return, but exhaust their contents in deposition, effusion, and tran- spiration. It is ascertained that Mr. Hun- ter injected the vessels of medusa? from the digestive cavity, in some of the specimens preserved in the Museum in the year 1779,205 LECTURE V. and these vessels appear beautifully distri- buted throughout the substance of the ani- mal, frequently communicating like the threads of network. In animals thus nou- rished, in which there is no circulation, there can be no distinct respiratory organs ; neither do they want them, for their blood or nutritive fluid, is every where exposed to circumambient air. In the animals included in the class of vermes, according to the arrangement in Professor Cuvier’s lectures, many of which have red blood, and therefore its motion is more apparent, we meet with the first generally acknowledged instance of cir- culation, They have a dorsal vessel run- ning the whole length of the animal, which is large in the middle, and be- comes gradually smaller towards either end. Sometimes there are dilatations in it, causing it to appear as if varicose; and there are lateral dilatations which may be considered as hearts ; or the whole tube may be regarded as the heart of the ani- mal. This vessel is displayed in the Mu- S206 LECTURE V. seum in the common earth-worm. The animals of this class have in general large vessels on each side lying in contact with the air-vesicles or lungs, which are consi- dered as the venous trunks returning the blood to the dorsal vessel. They are exhi- bited in the Museum injected in the leech. Mr. Hunter says, they are the venae cavas, or great returning veins of the body, and also the pulmonary veins, for in them the blood is aerated. His mode of expressing this two-fold office, is by saying, such veins are both corporeal and pulmonary. It must be exceedingly difficult to inject the vessels of vermes, so as to display their communications ; nor do I find that Mr. Hunter has made any preparations to de- monstrate the various branches of the dor- sal vessel or its returning veins. What is asserted in general with respect to this sub- ject, has I believe been chiefly discovered by observations made with the microscope on those animals when living. Mr. Hun- ter, in expressing his observations on the manner in which the body is suppliedLECTURE V. 207 from the dorsal vessel in these animals, says, they have not one aorta or distii- butive trunk, but many aortae. Professor Cuvier,' in his account of the organs for the distribution of nourishment in the class of vermes, principally appeals to the evi- dence of what may be seen in the areni- cola, or lumbricus marinus of Linneus. Sir Everard Home, being particularly desirous of examining the circulation in this ani- mal, on account of its having external branchiae, sent for Mr. Clift to the coast of Sussex for this purpose ; and their conjoint observations on the vessels and circulation in this and other vermes, are printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1816. That Mr. Hunter was as well acquainted with the circulation in animals of the worm kind, as any of his successors, is I think, evident from his writings. He says, they have the most simple kind of circulation, which is, when the blood, propelled by the heart, becomes aerated in its circulating passage. He also says, the motion of the blood is a kind of undulation, which phrase,208 LECTURE V. though not sufficiently explanatory, must, I think, principally have been suggested by what is observable in animals of this class. I am, however, aware that the mo- tion of the blood in the vessels of the chicken and its appendages before they are conjoined, and a circulatory motion conse- quently established, might have suggested the same expression. In worms, we see the dorsal vessel pretty suddenly filling, till it is distended with blood; it then con- tracts, urging on its contents, till it is empty, when, after a time, it is again reple- nished. Thus wave follows wave, but the cause of this interrupted, or seemingly un- dulatory motion, has not perhaps been fully explained. Analogy would induce us to consider the systole and diastole of the dorsal vessel, as similar to what is observed in the heart of the higher classes of ani- mals, and that the tardiness of the circu- lation is the cause of this apparently un- dulatory motion. The spiracula or tracheae in the sides of worms terminate in vesicles, which are con-LECTURE V. 209 sidered as their lungs. They are numerous and distinct, situated all along the sides of the animal in contact with the lateral blood vessels. These air vesicles, or lungs of worms, are exhibited by beautiful prepa- rations in the Hunterian Collection ; and in some instances, vesicles are also shewn in the back of the animal. It is scarcely credible with what patience Mr. Hunter examined the structure of the lower kinds of animals. He contrived spectacles with glasses of different degrees of magnifying power, so that by a slight alteration of the position of his head, he could look through the one or the other. Mr. Clift tells me, he would stand for hours motionless as a statue, except that with a pair of forceps in either hand, he was pick- ing asunder the connecting fibres of the vessels or parts, till he had unravelled the whole structure. Thus did he make the preparations of the amphinome flava, and aphrodita aculeata, which you will find in the Museum. In the former he thought he had distinctly traced numerous minuteLECTURE V. 210 vessels, which he considered as absorbents, extending from the bowels, laterally nearly the whole length of the animal, and termi- nating in small vesicles, which lie in con- tact with the respiratory organs. In the former he found numerous minute tubes continued from the intestines, which are of considerable length, and which, after rami- fying towards their extremities, terminate in little oval cells or caeca, which are lodged in the sides of the animal, in contact with t the pulmonary vesicles. There are different preparations of these parts in the Museum, and when the intes- tines happen to contain a whitish substance, it is also seen in the tubes and cells ; when the bowels contain a blackish matter, it is likewise found in these appendages. What Mr. Hunter thought respecting this subject, is not known. Such tubes may be consi- dered either as terminating in the intes- tines, or proceeding from them. In order to attempt the investigation of this subject, I requested Mr. Clift to inject 10LECTURE V. 211 the alimentary canal of the aphrodita with fine injection, and it passed into these nu- merous tubes, and these ceeca, all of which are fully distended ; but we cannot observe that the injection has gone further. I shew you this preparation, and you see these caeca in their natural situation, from which they are removed in the other specimens. I beg leave also to mention, that being desirous to ascertain how far the distributive vessels of the lower kinds of animals admitted of being injected from their digestive cavities, as is the case in medusae, and also to observe, whether any transudation took place through their sides, I requested Mr. Clift to inflate and inject with subtile liquors, the digestive organs in echini, insects, and vermes ; and as far as his enquiries have yet extended, he finds the canal similar to that of the higher classes, neither air, nor injection im- pelled, escapes from it, either through its sides, or by proceeding into vessels. According to the present arrangement of the subjects of Comparative Anatomy, insects form the next class to zoophytes, r 2a 12 LECTURE V. and worms succeed to insects. I have told you what Mr. Hunter knew and thought about the structure and functions of worms ; first, because it is probable that analogy, as well as his own observations, which may indeed have been biassed by analogy, led him to believe, that the circulating and respiratory organs of insects were similar to those of vermes. Like Swammerdam and others, he considered the dorsal vessel as the heart of the insect, and it is exposed in his Museum in the bee, the preparation being marked, the heart of the bee. We find bees, beetles, and silk-worms injected in the Hunterian Collection, but how, no one can tell. I should not have supposed that Mr. Hunter would have injected from the spiracula or orifices of the tracheae, with which he was well acquainted. Yet the injection, wherever impelled, might have been effused, or have got into and per- vaded the air vessels, which is supposed to be the case, by those who put faith in the modern opinions respecting the anatomy of insects. Mr. Hunter also believed, that the pulmonary organs of insects were simi-213 LECTURE V. lar to those of the vermes, and he says, they not only serve to ventilate the blood, but to give levity to the body of the ani- mal in those insects which fly. He says, the vesicles are larger in beetles, whose bo- dies are heavy, than in the lighter kinds of flying insects. He further mentions, that the vesicles or lungs of the flying insects, are different from those of others ; as they extend throughout the whole length of the body. You probably know, Gentlemen, that the present belief with respect to the nutri- tion of insects is, that the digestive aliment absorbed from the bowels, passes on by the same tubes to all parts of the body, and that tracheae, or air vessels, are equally dis- tributed, so as to produce a general and com- plete aeration of the nutritive fluid. It is further believed that the glands of insects are merely composed of contorted tubes. Yet the crustaceous animals, (formerly ac- counted insects,) spiders, some phalangia and scorpions, are admitted to be of a dif- ferent structure, and to possess both circu- p 3214 lecture V. lating organs and lungs like those ol vermes. Lyonnet, Cuvier and others, assert that the dorsal vessel found in insects, gives off no branches, and that no motion of fluids can be perceived in them, even by the aid of the microscope. Professor Cuvier says, « tout le corps est nourri par une fluide stagnant.” Yet even vessels can produce a free and forcible motion of their contents, as is evident in vegetables, and in the ab- sorbents of the higher classes of animals. If there were no current in the fluids of insects, how could liquors run so freely as they are known to do from the contorted tubes that form their glands? Professor Cuvier is disposed to consider the irrita- bility of animals as greatly dependant on the aeration of the blood; and ascribes the vivacity and power of insects to its great exposure to air. Yet this opinion cannot, I think, be maintained as a general inference in physiology ; for what animals are more agile, powerful, and indefati- gable than fish, and yet we have reason to believe their blood is very imperfectly aerated ?LECTURE V. 215 p 4 I have done, as I am convinced Mr. Hunter would have done, candidly acknow- ledged his opinions, and readily admit them to be erroneous, if they are shewn to be so. I cannot, however, but imagine how he would have rubbed his head, and thought, and wrought, till he had satisfied his mind respecting this subject; when, if he became convinced that the modern opi- nions were right, we may readily suppose what a train of reflections would have suc- ceeded. How curious must it appear that these very vivacious and powerful little creatures, which also possess such a com- plex apparatus of muscles, should be nou- rished in a manner not unlike that of vege- tables ; that the food, when digested, should be absorbed from their bowels, and that the absorbing system should become the distri- butive one, without the aid of any pumping engines or hearts to urge on the current. To Mr. Hunter, however, who believed life to be a principle independant on struc- ture, which could exercise its functions with diversity of means ; none of the cir-216 ' LECTURE V. cumstances I have alluded to could excite wonder. He would labour, as he always had done, to ascertain facts, and the additional facts would, on this, as on other occasions, only serve to confirm his already well esta- blished theory. In the present class of animals denomi- nated Crustacea, Mr. Hunter examined the lobster with particular attention, and has left most beautiful drawings, as well as pre- parations, demonstrating its anatomy in general. He was probably induced to make this attentive examination from considering it as a large specimen of the insect kind, in which the structure common to the whole tribe might be more readily discovered and displayed. With respect to its circulating and pulmonary organs he says, the heart which is unilocular, propels the blood throughout the body, which fluid receives purification in its passage; and that the blood returns, both from the body and from the lungs to the heart, which it throws out, in a mixed state, equally to the body and lungs. Every one is acquainted with the21? LECTURE V. 7 pulmonary apparatus of lobsters and crabs, that pith-like production that is (Dawn out of their bodies with their legs when they are torn off. Ascending to the newly established class of molusca, I find Mr. Hunter acquainted with all the facts which have warranted later Comparative Anatomists in making this distinction, so that he might himself have formed the arrangement, had his mind been directed to the subject of classification. Speaking of the situation of the heart in the multiform animals now included in this class, he says, it is very various, and seems chiefly to depend on that of the lungs : also that it is differently situated, even in ani- mals of the same kind, as in the snail and slug. With respect to its structure, lie says, in the snail, and in many of the inhabitants of shells, it is composed of an auricle and ventricle, whilst in others it has two auri- cles and one ventricle. He thinks that in the single heart with two auricles, it is formed, as it is in reptiles, to receive the blood both purified and unpurified, and toLECTURE V. 218 throw it out in a mixed state. He distin- guishes Lx this class of animals between the corporeal and pulmonary hearts, observing, that the snail has a heart for the former circulation and not for the latter. He par- ticularly examined, and was thoroughly acquainted with the circulating and respi- ratory organs of the cuttle fish, which are displayed with his usual perspicuity and accuracy, by preparations in the Museum, and also by beautiful drawings, two of which have been lately published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1816, by Sir Everard Home. As no one can doubt Mr. Hunter’s know- ledge of the circulation in fish and reptiles, I shall say nothing on this subject, except remarking, on account of the physiological inference the fact admits of, that the fish has only a pulmonary heart. It is com- posed of an auricle and ventricle, the for- mer receives the blood returned from all parts of the body, and the latter propels it through the gills, where, having undergone the change produced by respiration, it re-LECTURE V. 219 turns by vessels which, ending in a single trunk, form the great distributive vessel or aorta of* the animal, to which no heart is connected ; so that the blood receives no ad- ditional impulse besides that derived from the action of its containing vessels. There- fore, these extremely agile, powerful, inde- fatigable, and vivacious creatures, are sup- ported by a languid circulation and trivial respiratory process. A fact which warrants the conclusion, that the powers of life can be exerted according to their allotted man- ner, without that quick supply of materials, or great degree of change produced in the circulating fluids by respiration, both of which many physiologists have been accus- tomed to consider essential to the produc- tion and maintenance of such high degrees of vital action. In order to explain the varieties of hearts met with in different animals, Mr. Hun- ter seems to have sought for some generic term, simply expressing the number of ca- vities found in them, without any reference to the connexions or offices of those cavi-LECTURE V. 2l20 ties ; and liis friends must have supplied him with the terms which he employs, Monocoilia, Dicoilia, Tricoilia, and Tetrar- coilia. He considers the heart as a pump, which forcibly impels the fluid it contains into the vessels. Where there are two ca- vities, he says, one is an auricle, and the other a ventricle. The auricle is a cistern or reservoir, from which the contents are sud- denly forced into the more efficient cavity or pump. Sometimes there is a heart or pump to the pulmonary circulation, and none to the corporeal; and sometimes there is one for the latter and not for the former, and sometimes one for each. Even in the quadruped and bird, in which the heart appears most complex, he says, it is equally simple, there is a heart for either circula- tion, but these are united into one organ. In advocating Mr. Hunter’s reputation as a general physiologist, I ought not to omit to commemorate his labours in exa- mining the circulation ol the blood in the higher classes of animals. Doubtless theLECTURE V. 221 phenomena of the constant supply of blood to every part, and the building up and re- pairing- the structure of the body, must have appeared to him so curious and wonderful, as to induce him to admit nothing upon the authority of others, and to examine every fact for himself. Though I now engage in a subject which more especially I have a right to discuss, as it relates to human anatomy, yet I must not weary you by detailing facts familiarly known, or proving propositions which are generally admitted. Were I also to advert to the doctrines of others, I should have to collate asserted facts and opinions, irrecon- cilable with one another, and to engage in controversial discussion; yet why should I bandy about the ball of controversy, wast- ing both my own labour and your time, if I know 1 must let it fall at the conclusion, just where I took it up at the beginning ? It seems best for a lecturer simply to say what he thinks, and why he thinks it, be- cause it is the only way in which he can feel, and consequently create an interest in/ 222 LECTURE V. that which he delivers. I shall therefore merely tell you what I have been taught by Mr. Hunter to think with respect to the principal parts of the-subject of the distri- bution of nourishment in the higher classes of animals. First then, I find Mr. Hunter examining the structure of the arteries or tubes by which the blood appears to be carried to every part of the body. He is neither clear nor confident in his description of them ; and yet I know not that any one has described them better. Internally they are membranous tubes, which is a com- mon character of all sorts of vessels, the polished surface of the membrane admit- ting their fluid contents to pass along with the greatest facility. He knew that exte- rior to this, and not far from it, there was some substance, thin, but particularly strong and unyielding, which caused the vessel to have a regular circular form when distend- ed. He found that when the trunk oi the distributive vessels, the aorta, was injected with a force equal to ninety pounds, thisLECTURE V. 223 part suddenly cracked, and the external elastic matter of the vessel readily yielding, it became distended by the effused injec- tion, into a bulky, but irregular, form. Mr. Hunter thought that the great quan- tity of elastic matter which surrounds large arteries, was well calculated to prevent that injury to the vessels which the powerful propulsion of blood by the heart might otherwise occasion. Nay, he observed that the quantity of elastic matter was greatest where it appeared most wanted, that it was greater on the convex part of the arch of the aorta than on the concave. He further observed that certain arteries which are occa- sionally much elongated, have a far greater share of elasticity in their longitudinal direc- tion than others. The quantity of elastic mat- ter surrounding arteries also gradually dimi- nishes as these tubes recede from the heart, and the impulse of that organ diminishes; which well known fact corroborates the opi- nions I have just mentioned. The elasticity of the large arteries may also lighten the labour of the heart by the kind of suction it may sometimes occasion.LECTURE V. C19A Mr. Hunter knew, that in cases of hae- morrhage, the arteries would gradually contract upon their diminished contents, to a much smaller calibre than common; and he measured their areas in the contract- ed state in which they were found in a horse that had been bled to death. He then distended them, so as to destroy the effect of this vital contraction ; and having suffer- ed them to regain that calibre which their elastic property naturally determines, he again measured their areas, and found that O the aorta had contracted in the first in- stance, to more than one-tenth of its natu- ral diameter, the iliac to one-sixth, and the crural to one-third. He also observed, that arteries corresponding to the radial of the human subject, and others of the same size, were closed. I also think it evident, in the common operations of surgery, that arteries of no inconsiderable magnitude, which have bled vehemently, and in a large stream immediately after their division, very speedily cease to bleed, and remain with their orifices so closed, that they are scarcely discernible. I have seen the radial and ulnar arteries of the human subject.22,5 LECTURE V. appear like impervious chords. This hap- pened, indeed, in young patients. Yet, Mr. Hunter never attempted to demonstrate muscular fibres in arteries ; he says there is a reddish substance surrounding: the tube near the internal coats, which he believed to be the structure possessing irritability. Specimens of arteries thus contracted, and contrasted with others of the same size, but of their natural dimensions, are exhibited in the Museum. Mr. Hunter must have been acquainted, from his brother’s lectures, with the inconclusive experiments of Hal- ler, relative to the irritability of different parts of the body. He adopted another and a better mode of determining, whether parts possessed a power of vital contraction. Observing that this power in muscles pro- duced contraction after the ordinary func- tions of life had ceased, he tried whether, and for what length of time, parts could contract in this manner. Thus did he sa- tisfy himself, that the arteries of the funis umbilicalis had vital energies remaining in them sixty hours after its detachment. QLECTURE V. <226 Mr. Hunter’s notions of life were pecu- liar. He thought that it was an active prin- ciple, which, by operating in various modes and degrees, produced the different pheno- mena by which its existence is characterized. He knew that parts, in which no muscular structure was evident, were nevertheless irritable, and that the modes of contraction and relaxation of muscular parts were va- rious. He seems by no means satisfied, that all the phenomena of muscular relaxa- tion can be accounted for, on the supposi- tion of the abatement or cessation of an ac- tive power. Without, therefore, pretend- ing to determine the modes of action of the sanguiferous tubes, seeing that they have a power of vital contraction upon the dimi- nishing quantity of their contents, knowing that vessels alone are capable of producing a quick and forcible current of their con- tained fluids, as is evident in the ascent of sap of vegetables, and still more so in the acceleration of the current of the fluids contained in the absorbing vessels of ani- mals, as they approach to the trunk of theLECTURE V. Q 2 system, vve seem warranted in concluding, as Mr. Hunter has done, that the different degrees of power allotted to different parts of the arterious system, is given to them for the purpose of aiding in carrying on the circulation. When the blood is projected by that pow- erful engine, the heart, into the large arte- ries, little energy on their part is requisite to urge on the rapid current; but in pro- portion as the heart’s influence diminishes, power is allotted to the vessels to aid in its propulsion. There are some modern physio- logists, and those of high repute, who con- sider the heart, by its actions alone, as fully adequate to maintain the circulation, and consequently discredit the irritability of arte- ries, except of those which are called capil- laries. But where, I would ask, am I to sup- pose that these capillaries begin ? I cannot observe the sudden and deep blush of shame, or extreme paleness of terror, without being convinced that arteries of no inconsiderable size possess vital activity; we cannot believe that the heart’s influence can be partiallyLECTURE V. 228 exerted, determining the blood into one set of vessels in preference to another. How then can we account for the vehement hae- morrhages which take place from inflamed arteries, unless we admit vessels of magni- tude to possess vital activity? Do we not know that an haemorrhagic action is a natu- ral phaenomenon in some parts of the body, that arteries occasionally pour the blood so impetuously into the corpus cavernosum and spongiosum, as suddenly and forcibly to distend them ? I can scarcely believe that if an anato- mist were injecting the principal artery of the dura mater, and had burst its trunk, he could, with his utmost efforts, expel so large a quantity of injection, and compress the brain to the degree that we sometimes find it to be by blood, when that vessel is torn and irritated by injury. Yet the same ves- sel does not bleed when exposed. Can we account for such facts from the actions ot the heart alone ? How also, I would ask, am I to account for the vehement throbbing of all the large arteries ol the arm, even as faiLECTURE V. 229 as the axilla, which may be sometimes ob- served, when an abcess forms at the end of one of the fingers ? How am I to account for the distinct pulsation we often perceive in the carotid, or abdominal aorta, unless some vital activity be admitted to exist even in the larger vessels ? We may indeed, in some instances, account for the phe- nomena which we observe, by supposing constriction to have occurred in the capil- laries of the large pulsating trunk ; but this supposition appears to me very inadequate to explain the whole of the phenomena of such occurrences. • Our physiological theories should be ade- quate to account for all the vital pheno- mena, both in health and disorder, or they never can be maintained as good theories. Mr. Hunter enquired if the area of ar- teries increased as they receded from the heart, and for this purpose examined the trunk of the common carotid, which runs to some distance without giving off any branch of importance. He found it largest q 3LECTURE V. 230 at the end furthest from the heart. He was convinced that the conjoined areae of all the minute arteries must greatly exceed that oi the aorta, where it emerges from the heart, and therefore that every portion of blood projected by the heart was moving into an increasing space. Mr. Hunter, who believed that, in living beings, nothing was constructed or done in vain, could never have observed the very curious contorsions of some arteries, which he has taken much pains to display in his Museum, nor those of the great vessels as they enter the skull, without supposing that some purpose was effected by them. Nei- ther could he contemplate the coalition of currents of blood moving in contrary di- rections, which is. produced by the arteries communicating and conjoining with one another, without admitting that it must tend to retard the velocity of the motion of such opposing currents. Mr. Hunter therefore joined in the physiological belief, that all the circumstances we observe m the distribution and ramification of arte-231 LECTURE V. q 4 ries, are calculated to produce a rapid cur- rent of the blood through the larger vessels, in order that it may arrive unchanged at the part for the supply of which it is designed; and that other circumstances there occur- ring, are intended to retard its motion, so that it may be modified and rendered sub- servient to the purposes of secretion and nutrition. Now you know, Gentlemen, that some physiologists suppose the velocity of the current of blood to be equal in all sets of vessels. With respect to this subject, I will merely refer you to an experiment of Hales, in his Hasmastatics. Having estimated the probable force of the heart, he put a tube into the aorta of a dead dog, and kept it filled with water to a height which would give an equal propulsion to the supposed power of the heart. Under these circum- stances, having opened the abdomen, he cut along the tube of the intestines, at that part most remote from the mesentery, and observed the water running tardily from the orifices of the divided arteries.LECTURE V. 232 He then divided the mesentery at the edge next the intestine, where the vessels being larger, the water ran rapidly from them; and when he opened a vessel of consider- able size, it gushed from it with the same velocity and force that blood issues from the same sized vessel when divided in a living animal. I refer you to this experiment, be- cause it seems far better calculated to dis- play the effects likely to result from the circumstances we observe in the distribution and ramification of arteries, than any we may make with tubes of our own construction. Mr. Hunter was convinced that arteries terminate in veins, for if we inject the for- mer with any subtile fluid, it quickly and freely returns by the latter. I know not, however, whether the magnitude of some of the communicating tubes was ascertained till of late years. I have in my possession a hand which was injected with wax about thirty years ago, and the wax passed freely from the arteries into the veins, so as to afford a beautiful exhibition of the network of small veins, which proceed to terminatelecture V. 233 in the larger trunks, in a manner which I had never before seen demonstrated, except by injections of quicksilver. In dissecting this hand, the vessels which transmitted the injection from the arteries into the veins were apparent. Some artifice is, however, necessary to our success, in making these preparations. We should suffer a part to become slightly putrid, be- fore we inject its vessels, which produces a yielding state of them, favourable to the transit of the injection. Yet there are arte- ries which terminate in veins, so small, as not, in their natural and healthy state, to transmit even coloured blood, so that there is, in fact, something similar to a specula- tion of Boerhaave’s, something like a de- scending series of vessels. It also evidently appears, that the great mass of the blood is freely transmitted from the arteries into the veins, so that it rapidly and regularly circulates ; and we therefore conclude, that but a small portion passes into the finer vessels, there to undergo those modifica- tions which fit it for the production of the secretions, and the various materials for the nutriment of the body.LECTURE V. 2S4> The veins freely communicate with one another, and joining together, they form tubes of apparently larger dimensions, but of less actual calibre than the branches by which they were formed ; so that in these vessels the blood is obliged to pass through converging channels which eventually end in the two venas cavse, the conjoined areas of which are inconsiderable when compared with the space the blood has occupied in all the minute veins of the body. Consequently if the heart pumps out an ounce and a hall of blood at each action into the arteries, and the same quantity is returned, in the same time, to that organ by the veins, it must be urged in the like interval from the small arteries into the veins, and run with accelerated velocity as it approximates to the heart. Of this circumstance we may, I think, be convinced by ocular demon- stration, even in the ordinary practice of our profession. There is much more space in the veins than in the arteries, which pre- vents any trivial obstruction in the former channels from impeding the transmission of the Wood into them through the lat- ter. The superficial veins which meanderlecture V. 235 j Oil the surface of the body are beset with numerous valves, or flood-gates, which pre- vent the blood from moving in a retro- grade course, and oblige it to go onwards towards the heart. The blood sometimes returns to the heart, chiefly by the deep- seated veins which accompany correspond- ing contiguous arteries, and at others more abundantly through those on the surface. Mr. Hunter believed that veins possessed vital activity, but it must be of the kind allotted to the muscles of tardigrade ani- mals, and such as various parts of our .bodies are also endowed with. Indeed the large veins near the heart are said to evince an irritability of the more common kind. The nature of the irritability of veins may en- able "them to adapt their calibre to their contents. Mr. Hunter argues that, as the vena portas in the liver performs the func- tion of an artery, it probably is irritable. We know that it fails to secrete, or secretes with profusion ; that sometimes it prepares healthy, and at others faulty, bile, which va- riation of function can scarcely be supposed to take place in a perfectly passive vessel. 7LECTURE V. 236 The blood returning from all parts of the body is, in the higher classes of animals, propelled from the right side of the heart through the lungs. To observe the circum- stances resulting from the conjoined actions of the heart and respiration, Mr. Hunter contrived a pair of bellows by which he * could maintain the latter process in an arti- ficial manner, and thus he was enabled to observe how greatly the heart’s action de- pends on its continuance. He says, “ the nearest dependence of the heart is upon the lungs,, for a stoppage of respiration pro- duces a stoppage of circulation; and a re- newal of the former is attended with a re- newal of the latter. Thus, in my experi- ments with artificial breathing, the heart soon ceased to act, whenever I left off act- ing with my bellows; and upon the renew- al of artificial breathing, it in a very short time renewed its action, first by slow de- grees, but becoming quicker and quicker till it came to its full action.” Mr. Hunter displays the subject of the structure and uses of the lungs, according to our present notions. He says, “ that as the function ofLECTURE V. 237 the lungs becomes augmented in animals, so are their cells minute, and the pulmo- nary vessels subdivided, by which means the surface of the air and the blood exposed to reciprocal influence is proportionately increased. Carbone is evidently thrown off, 'and a change produced, of the precise na- ture of which we are ignorant, but which is rendered evident to our senses by a change of colour; for the purple current acquires a scarlet hue, or, as it is commonly ex- pressed, the venous blood becomes arte- rious. Chemists have considered the change as contributory to the production of animal heat; which opinion may indeed be true, though the manner in which it produces such an effect, has not as yet been explain- ed.” Mr. Hunter, who believed that life had the power of regulating temperature, inde- pendently of respiration, says nothing of that process as directly contributing to such an effect. He says “ breathing seems to render life to the blood ; and the blood conveys it to every part of the body.” Yet he believes the blood derives vitality also from the food. The experiments of Mr.LECTURE V. 238 Brodie, which I have mentioned in the first lecture of this year, seem satisfactorily to shew, that the transitions of colour, which are produced in the blood by respira- tion and circulation, are not of themselves alone adequate to occasion a change of tem- perature. I am at a loss to know what' chemists now think respecting heat, whe-. ther they consider it to be a distinct species of matter, or mere motion and vibration. Among the curious revolutions which this age has produced, those of chemical opini- ons have a fair claim to distinction. To shew which, I may mention, that a lady * on her first marriage, was wedded to that sci- entific champion who finally overthrew the dominion of phlogiston, and established in its stead the empire of caloric; and after his decease, on her second nuptials, was uni- ted to the man, who, vainly supposed he had subverted the rule of caloric, and re- stored the antient but long banished dy- nasty of motion and vibration. In this state of perplexity I cannot advance with * Madame Lavoisier, who afterwards married Count Rum ford.289 LECTURE V. prudence or probable security one step lur- tlier than Mr. Hunter has led me. I must believe respiration to be essential to life, and that life has the power, by its actions, of maintaining and regulating temperature. Mr. Hunter suggested that the blood ought, for numerous reasons, to be consi- dered as a living fluid, and adds, “ that the blood has life, is an opinion I have started for above thirty years, (which must have been in the year 1760,) and have taught it, for nearly twenty of that time in my lectures.” I quote this passage merely to show how early he had acquired those notions of life which I consider as the primary stimulus of his meritorious and highly useful exertions. He wonders that this opinion had not been more deeply impressed on the minds ol medical enquirers, because the blood un- dergoes evident changes from variations in the state of the health, and the actions of the vessels. Life is generally attributed to solids only, yet these are formed from the blood, which could not give them what it did not possess. He says, that in the yearsLECTURE V. >10 1755-6, when making drawings, of the changes which took place in the incubated egg, he was particularly struck with the well known fact, that the yolk and white, which we cannot suppose to be organised, did not putrify; and this led him to believe that fluid and semi-fluid substances might have a principle of life diffused through them. Every one must be convinced that the power of the heart is very considerable, even from observing the thickness and compactness of its fleshy structure. Dr. Hales estimated its force as equal to a little more than 70lbs. That it could not act with the enormous force which some have attributed to it, Mr. Hunter inferred from finding that a force of 90lbs. burst the in- elastic part of the aorta. Mr. Hunter be- lieved that the forcible projection of an additional quantity of blood from the heart into the arteries, produced a sudden mo- tion in the whole column contained in these tubes, and occasioned their almost simul- taneous pulsation in every part. He could not doubt that if they were contracted, theyLECTURE V. 241 would be distended; yet with reference to this point, he observes, that upon laying bare an artery, no distention of the tube is apparent; and that the distention seems to take place in proportion as it is covered or compressed. Such then is the view Mr. Hunter has exhibited of the circulation in the higher classes of animals; and on contemplating it, we perceive how every part of the body may duly receive its allotted portion of nourishment and life, as well as how each part may receive less or more than its ordi- nary quantity in consequence of the vital actions of its own vessels. I do not perceive, however, that his re- presentation ot the circulation differs ma- terially from that of the best physiologists who preceded him. But he has the merit of examining every point for himself, and under all the varieties of circumstances ; as well as of ascertaining, what before appeared obscure and uncertain. This theory of the circulation has been assaulted, and yet. ii242 LECTURE V. as far as I can perceive, without being either injured or invalidated. Therefore I am dis- posed to maintain it, for the same reasons that I am his theory of life, because it is probable, cautiously and philosophically deduced, and adequate to explain all the phenomena of health, disorder, and dis- ease ; which I think cannot be said of any other theory relative to either of these subjects*jR 2 ( 24S ) LECTURE VI. ON SECRETION AND NUTRITION. At the conclusion of the former lecture, I exhibited a kind of sketch of Mr. Hunter’s facts and opinions relative to the circulation of the blood, and the change wrought in that fluid, by respiration. I have now to en- quire wherefore does the blood circulate ? Is it not for the nourishment of the body, and the preparation of various fluids and substances subservient to the animal eco- nomy ? We believe, for reasons which I need not detail on the present occasion, these objects to be effected by means of minute vessels, which go off from the ex- treme arteries, and which sometimes ter- minate by open orifices, effusing or deposit- ing their contents ; whilst sometimes they lead on to other channels, which collect and convey the fluids they receive, to cer- tain reservoirs or surfaces. These vessels which prepare and separate something fromLECTURE VI. <244 the circulating fluids are called the secern- ing vessels. ' It is curious to observe Mr. Hunter’s expressions with regard to these agents. u I would not,” says he, “ call them arteries; they are workers, they are the labourers.” He would not consider them as concerned in the circulation of the blood, they are the chemists and the archi- tects of the body. That such vessels could separate from the blood something that was formally present in that fluid, might be easily credited. But how they could pre- pare that extreme diversity of fluids and substances which they are known to do, formed a problem that was never solved till the time of Hunter. He thought that the vital principle of the vessel, acting on that of its fluid contents, produced these che- mical changes. He thought that theie was a correspondence or concert of affection and action between them, a harmony as he calls it. Thus did he attempt to explain how a morbid state of fluids could induce an un- healthy action of vessels, and how the latter could reciprocally occasion the former. W as he not, indeed, a strong and clear-sighted245 LECTURE VI. mall, who could see so far through the ob- scurity in which these subjects were involv- ed, in his time ? But the sun of science has since shone on them, and we now see dis- tinctly the probability and rationality of his theory. Sir H. Davey’s experiments prove that they are electrical actions, by which all combinations and decompositions of matter are occasioned, and that what is called electricity, pervades every thing whether solid or fluid. In speaking of di- gestion, it has been already shewn, that ac- tions productive of secretion are regulated by the general powers of life, by the ener- gies of the nervous system. Every one now seems convinced, by direct experi- ments, that vessels, so modify their con- tents, that the liquids and substances which the absorbents take up, become lymph, a fluid resembling blood, in their transit through those vessels; and that the chyle imbibed from the bowels is undergo- o ing continual modifications as it proceeds through these channels to the sanguiferous system. Yet, as I have mentioned in my former lectures, the most direct proof of the r 3246 LECTURE VI. truth of Mr. Hunter’s opinions respecting secretion, was given by himself, and at a time when these subjects were involved in darkness, by shewing the effects resulting from the application of morbific animal poisons. From observation and analogy, Mr. Hun- ter was induced to believe, that the coagu- lation of the blood was an effect resulting from the vital principle, and similar to that contraction which takes place in muscles, after the cessation of the ordinary functions of life. He mentions that in animals killed by lightning, or large charges of electricity, in those which have been hunted to death, or destroyed by violent blows on the sto- mach, he had observed that the blood did not coagulate, neither did the muscles become rigid. That the powers of life inhere in any distinct substance which makes no part of the visible structure of the body, may in- deed, in every instance, be doubted, but if this be conceded, the consideration of the247 LECTURE VI. vital phenomena oblige us to admit that there is a principle of life pervading the blood, so that Mr. Hunter’s opinions on that subject cannot well be disputed, and appear to be fully established by Sir H. Davey’s discoveries. Yet his opinion of the coagu - lation of the blood being occasioned by its vitality has neither been proved by himself, nor disproved by others. It is a detached opinion making no part of the general discussion relative to the vitality of the blood; and therefore it is strange that so much has been said and written about it. Those who do not understand, or who dislike Mr. Hunter’s opinions, have in ge- neral furiously assailed this detached and seemingly unsupported one, yet without in the least injuring or altering it; whilst others,- who are advocates for Mr. Hunter’s theories, have hurried to its defence, as if all would be lost should this single opinion be destroyed. Thus both parties seem to have been led away from the main subject. How seldom do we consider propositions with the deliberate exercise of those powers of observation and reason with which we are endowed? We are partial to our opinions, r 4848 LECTURE VI. and consequently prejudiced against those of others. In argument we strive for vic- tory rather than seek for truth. That self- conceit which leads us chiefly to attend to our own opinions and feelings, and to dis- regard those of others, renders us indocile, unfits us for patient and impartial consi- deration, and is a great obstacle to the pro- gress of science, as well as to human hap- piness in general. Mr. Hunter believed that the secerning arteries, having prepared the various kinds of nutritive materials for building and re- pairing the different structures of the body, deposited the atoms from their open orifices with such regularity, as in a great degree to achieve this surprizing purpose. He how- ever believed that the life of the parts as- sisted in producing their arrangement. The occurrences met with in disease afford the strongest confirmation of these opinions ; every fibre being subject to sudden and un- natural increase, mutation, or removal. In consequence of the opinion that eachLECTURE VI. 249 particle was deposited by an appropriate ves- sel, he was induced to add, that every part of the body may in this sense be said to be equally vascular ; what is meant by increased vascularity depending upon the greater size or number of the vessels, which transmit the blood, allowing them to be more distended with red blood, or our coloured injections. Further, he observes that an increase of ap- parent vascularity may be the result of ves- . sels passing through parts to terminate elsewhere. Now, though Mr. Hunter attributed so much to the agency of vessels, he believed that life, in various instances, formed these active tubes. His opinions might indeed be biassed by what he had observed in the cicatricula of the egg, but he thought that vessels might be formed in effused gelatinous matter, as he says they are in the areola of the egg, called cicatricula. In speaking of the latter subject, he says, “ the arteries are the very first active parts of the system. We find them in action before they are connected to the heart,LECTURE VI. 250 and in this state they are the only parts that have strength, so that we can dissect them without injection, the other parts readily giving way.” He seems confident that vessels form separately, and after- wards become united with one another ; and he believed that vessels might also be thus formed and conjoined in the gela- tinous substances effused previously to the growth or reparation of parts. In the union by adhesion, he supposed that though new vessels might be produced, the original divided vessels pullulated and inosculated, and became pervious and en- tire as they were before their division, so that blood or injection would permeate them as before. He thought, that when parts were united by a common vascular substance, the vessels and vital agency of the parts divided, could gradually convert the common uniting medium into its own na- ture. Thus does he suppose that the ner- vous fibres are produced and elongated through the common uniting medium by which a divided nerve is conjoined. We251 LECTURE VI. sec surprizingly rapid growths take place either naturally or in consequence of dis- ease ; yet at the very summit of the growth, we must admit that there are O nerves, because there is feeling; that there are absorbing vessels, because there is ab- sorption. Medicines imbibed from the surface, are conveyed into the sanguiferous system through the originally existing ab- sorbent channels, and the blood is returned in like manner from the summit of the new-formed part, through the pre-existing veins. The original structures must there- fore have grown to the very summit of the newly-produced substance, or similar parts must have been formed in it and conjoined with them. With regard to arteries in general, he says “ that they have within themselves considerable powers of increase, both in magnitude and length, as well as of pro- ducing new shoots ; all which is evident at the time of the formation of the new horns in the stag, and also in utero-gestation. Such actions, likewise, extend by sympa- 12LECTURE VI. 252 thy to a considerable distance from the part immediately engaged in any operation both in the arteries and in the returning veins.” Mr. Hunter has put up in his Museum several preparations to shew the celerity with which the processes productive of union are carried on. Yet, as the effusion of injection may redden parts and give them the appearance of vascularity, so that we are liable to be deceived, I shall not refer to these preparations in evidence of this fact. Mr, Hunter was convinced that life might remain in a dormant state, in de- tached parts, for sixty hours, as has been mentioned in the first lectures. He there- fore could not wonder at the facts with respect to transplantation or engrafting ot portions of animal bodies with which he was acquainted; yet he says that the transplanted part must have life, to accept of the union, because he believed, that a correspondent and co-operating action was necessary for its accomplishment.LECTURE VI. 253 Mr. Hunter observing how firmly the gum sometimes attached itself to a trans- planted tooth, and thinking the comb of a cock resembled the gum in its texture, transplanted the tooth of a dog and set it in the comb, where it became firmly fixed. He next transplanted a gland taken from the abdomen of the cock, to a similar situ- ation in the belly of a hen, where it also became attached, and as he believed, nou- rished, for he probably thought he had in- jected it from the general arterious system. The uniting medium by which it is firmly connected, is certainly very vascular, yet I do not see that any injection has passed in- to the vessels of the transplanted gland. The preparation is in the Museum, so that you can examine it for yourselves. Mr. Hunter probably believed that it was nou- rished, from its neither wasting nor decay- ing. As, however, the evidence was not very distinct, he next transposed the spur of a young hen, to the leg of the cock, and that of the latter, to the leg of the former bird, which spurs grew, and thus set the subject at rest in his mind. It may seem, how-LECTURE VI. 254 ever, curious, that the hen’s spur grew to a greater size on the cock’s leg, than it would have done upon the parent animal, which Mr. Hunter considered as a proof of the greater vigour of constitution of the male bird. Next to the organs concerned in the cir- culation and aeration of the blood, Mr. Hunter displays the various kinds of kid- nies allotted to different animals as a speci- men of glands in general, and as the agents by which the impurities are carried off from the circulating blood. Carbone and water, with trivial quantities of saline and animal substances, are discharged from that fluid from the surfaces of the body, both from the skin and lungs. The kidnies also carry off redundant water from the blood, which is a proper vehicle for salts casually re- ceived or accidentally formed; but which is likewise made to suspend various kinds of solid animal matter. As many of the old materials of the body, and some of the unas- similated matter of our food, are insoluble in water, nature has given the kidniesLECTURE VI. 255 powers of converting various kinds ol ani- mal matter into a peculiar and very soluble substance, lately recognized and denomi- nated urea. So soluble is it that we may evaporate the water of the urine to a con- siderable degree without precipitating the urea; and when we add large quantities of water to urine, the urea will pervade the whole, and be dissolved in it, so as to be distinguishable in every portion by appro- priate tests. Lime removed from our bones or taken into the circulating vessels with our food, becomes also dissolved in the water of the urine by means of phosphoric acid, which the human kidney prepares in so large a proportion, that the superfluous acid will redden the vegetable blue, and dissolve more lime than is usually found in urine. That the phosphoric, acid could not exist formally in the blood, but is pre- pared in the secretory vessels of the kidney, must be evident to every one on consider- ation. Yet in herbivorous animals, who take into the circulation a great deal of flint with their food, the urine is rendered alka- line in order to dissolve that kind of earth.LECTURE VI. 256 I have been induced thus briefly to ad- vert to the functions of the kidney, because the quantity and quality of its products can be ascertained, and thus throw light upon the subject of secretion in general. When water abounds in the blood, whether from more being imbibed from the diges- tive organs, or less being carried off from the surfaces of our bodies, the quantity separated by the kidney is proportionately increased, and vice versa. Thus do the se- cretions become vicarious to one another, and conjointly tend to maintain the proper quantity and quality of the circulating fluids. The qualities of the urine also demon- strate how much secretion is affected by different states of the nervous system in general. When the kidney is rendered irritable from various causes, and persons are in that state usually termed hysterical, the kidney scarcely separates any thing but water from the blood, which is, indeed, produced in an inordinate quantity; and it is probable, that a different state of the nervous system, may render the kidney257 LECTURE VI. Incompetent to transform the animal mat- ter into urea, and thus prove a cause of foul and deficient urine. How curiously and universally are the nervous functions sometimes disturbed by trivial causes ? Even harsh and discordant sounds, affect- ing the brain, may disturb the functions of the kidney ; so that there may be some who, “ when the bagpipe sings in the nose, cannot contain their urine.” Those of the medical profession must readily accord with the additional remark of Shakespeare, that such affections, which may well, indeed, be called “ masters of passion, sway us to their mood in what we like or loathe.” For we well know, that our patients and ourselves, from distur- bance of the nervous functions of the di- gestive organs, producing such affections of the brain, may become irritable, petu- lant, and violent about trifles, or oppress- ed, morose, and desponding. Permit me, however, to add, that those of the medical profession must be equally apprized, that when the functions of the mind are notc25 8 LECTURE VI. disturbed by such affections, it displays great energy of thought, and evidence ot established character, even in death. Have we not lately heard, that the last words of Nelson, were, “ tell Collingwood to bring the fleet to an anchor ?” Shakespeare has also represented Mercutio continuing to jest, though conscious he was mortally wounded ; the expiring Hotspur, thinking of nothing, but honour ; and the dying Falstaff still cracking his jests upon Bar- dolpli’s nose. I request you to excuse this digression, which I have been induced to make from perceiving, that if such facts were duly attended to, they would prompt us to make a more liberal allow- ance for each other s conduct undei cei- tain circumstances, than we are accus- tomed to do ; and also incite us to the more active and constant performance of the great business of human life, the edu- cation of the mind ; for, according to its knowledge and dispositions, do we possess the ability of contributing both to our own welfare and comfort, and to those of others.LECTURE VL 259 S 2 The saccharine diabetes is a disorder which elucidates in a very striking manner the nature and effect of the vital actions in the process of secretion. If the stomach do not digest vegetable food, so considera- ble a portion of it is sometimes imbibed from the bowels, as to render the serum of the blood turbid, though not sweet. In the kidney, the vital actions combine the vegetable substance into something resem- bling sugar, which, being very soluble in the water of the urine, in this form ob- tains an outlet from the body. Thus those who have trivial and temporary incompe- tency to digest vegetable food, have also a corresponding degree of saccharine dia- betes, which is often unnoticed; but when the disorder of the stomach causing this failure of digestion is established and per- manent, the diabetes is constant, if vege- table substances be eaten.* * In saying this, I by no means deny that diabetes may not also result from disturbed vital actions in the kidney. Dr. Sanders, of Edinburgh, informs me that he has of late particularly attended to the state of the medulla spinalis and vertebral nerves both in chorea260 LECTURE VI. ON THE ORGANS OF PERCEPTION AND VOLITION. After the exhibition of the organs by which animals are nourished, their curious structures built up, and their various li- quors and substances prepared, Mr. Hun- ter shews the nervous system, or the means by which parts of the body seem to have sympathetic communication with one ano- ther, and with the brain, which is com- monly believed to be the organ of sen- sation and volition. I have nothing to add with respect to this subject in general, to what is contained in the introductory lec- tures. When I wrote them, I had not in- deed attended to Mr. Hunter’s views of the nervous system in the lower kinds ot animals ; neither had I read Professor Cu- vier’s Lectures. It is therefore proper, on and diabetes, and that he finds ’their vessels very tur- gid, with other signs indicative of their having been in a state of considerable disorder; which state, in diabetes, however, may either be a cause or effect ot rena. irritation.261 LECTURE VI. the present occasion, to mention that both these zealous and industrious enquirers in- to the structure of animals, seem to ac- knowledge that there are some beings, in which they have not been able to discover any regular nervous system ; yet upon dis- secting them, they meet with fibres which they believe to be nerves. Mr. Hunter has shewn these kind of threads in the si- punculus nudus. In animals of the worm kind, which are formed of a series of rings, the nervous system is also composed of an equal series of connected ganglia, each ganglion sup- plying that ring of the animal to which it corresponds, so that each ring may be considered as possessing a perfect nervous system. The connexion between the gan- glia may also be supposed to produce ef- fects which I have endeavoured to express in my first lectures by the words “ concur- rence of impressions and actions.” When animals, whose nervous system is thus con- structed, have such sensations as we pos- sess, and recognize in the higher classes s 32G2 LECTURE VI. of animals, when they are sensible of light, sound, odour, and touch, the upper gan- glion which surrounds the oesophagus must be considered as the brain, and from this, nerves may be traced to the eyes, antennae, and feelers. Mr. Astley Cooper tells me, if the longitudinal nerve be divided in the earth-worm, it can no longer regulate its motions. When a worm is divided, each part moves and crawls by its own powers, but if the longitudinal nerve be divided, when the worm is entire, the motions of either end so counteract each other, that the animal cannot crawl, which shews that the volition of the worm proceeds from its brain, and cannot operate on the parts beyond the divided nerve. In insects and Crustacea, the nervous system is similar to that of worms. In molusca, there is no longitudinal source of nerves analogous to the medulla spinalis. There is an upper ganglion, si- milar to that considered as the brain in the animals just mentioned, and a lowerLECTURE VI. one to supply the viscera and the rest of the body. Mr. Hunter says in his MS., “ there are two large nerves descending on either side of the oesophagus, and then uniting into one, forming a ganglion at their union, which he thinks serves the office of the sympathetic or visceral nerve, and the medulla spinalis.” In fish and reptiles, the nervous system approximates to that which is found in the higher classes of animals. In the former, it is extremely small. The brain and me- dulla spinalis of the squalus maximus, is exhibited in the Museum. It therefore ap- pears that fish, such agile, powerful, inde- fatigable creatures, which are also so sur- prizingly retentive of life, have not only a very languid circulation, scanty respi- ratory process, but also a disproportionately small nervous system. We need not in- deed marvel at such facts, because the ani- mals in which the energies of life seem greatest, are those in which neither circu- lating organs nor nerves are discoverable. s 4LECTURE VI. 264 Mr. Hunter has in his MS., particularly described the various forms of the brain in the lower classes of animals, and has exhi- bited specimens, shewing its varieties, in his Museum. As this organ becomes large and complex, so, it is well known, do ani- mals proportionately possess various per- ceptions, propensities, faculties and senti- ments ; which induced Mr. Hunter to be- lieve that it was the organ of sensation and other properties originating in that source. These circumstances being shewn, the different organs of sense are next exhi- bited ; and the structure of the eye of the fish and bird appears to have been parti- cularly examined and contrasted by Mr. Hunter. But I must not enter into this subject, for it would be useless to begin without proceeding ; and if I proceeded, I should weary both myself and my audience before I returned to the point ffom which I had set out. Neither do I perceive that any conclusion can be drawn from the most patient investigation of the subject, except 7lecture VI. 265 that which has been deduced in the intio ductory lectures; that vibratory actions occurring in the nerves in consequence of impressions made on them, are transmitted to the brain, and variously affect that which is perceptive. It is evident to reason that our perceptions have no rational corres- pondence to the causes producing them ; and nature may have allotted to animals various kinds and degrees of perception adapted to their wants, and the situa- tion they occupy in the scale of existence. No one can guess what kind of vision belongs to the fly. There are probably 25,000 hexagonal lenses or menisci on its surface, or the same number 01 distinct visual organs, as some Comparative Anato- mists would have us to believe. Some animals may have great susceptibility to light, odour, and sound, and yet may not possess great general susceptibility. We find indeed, in many instances, organization adapted to function, and yet it is highly improbable, that we shall ever be able to explain function by means of our know- ledge of organization.LECTURE VI. 266 Having promised to endeavour to con- firm, by additional physiological argu- ments, the theory of nervous and muscular actions proposed in my first lectures, I proceed to redeem this pledge. That livfe continues in detached parts of vegetables and animals, seems evident, from the con- tinuance of irritability, and to this subject only, I excited your attention in the intro- ductory lectures. On the present occasion, I wish you to consider, that all the vital functions are, occasionally, equally manifest in the detached part; for when such parts possess powers of supplying and distributing nourishment; growth and formation will continue, so that the detached part becomes as perfect and complete as the body from which it was removed. This , happens in vegetables and zoophytes. In animals of more complicated struc- ture, also re-production of parts takes place, to a degree that’ often excites won- der, because we are apt to judge of other things by ourselves, or by those which we are most accustomed to observe. TheLECTURE VI. 267 claws of lobsters, when torn off, are renew- ed. It is said, that the divided parts ot an earth worm, if cut in two, will each be- come perfect j and that the head of the snail, and eye of the newt, 'will grow again, when removed. Yet, I would ask, what is there in these facts more surprizing, than in the re-production of the stag’s horns, and of the plumage of birds ; or in the for- mation of superfluous limbs in the foetus, or of monstrous excrescences in the adult ? All parts are originally formed by vessels, and why may not these agents form them anew, or produce them superfluously ? In the lower kinds of animals, different parts of the body may each be considered as possessing a perfect nervous system. Those animals which are capable of great degrees of the re-productive processes, have great tenacity of life, and powers of conti- nuing its functions without the ordinary supply of food. It is said, that frogs arid toads have lived in hollows of wood and stones, so that it is probable they were supported only on the reputed cameleon’sQ68 LECTURE VI. dish, the air, and the moisture it contains. Snails will live when covered up in a glazed pan for more than a year. Now, though i do not, under such circumstances, see any thing astonishing in the instances of re-production which are reported to have taken place ; yet I should hesitate to admit that the brain was ever perfectly re-pro- duced, till such a fact was established by observations on the future life of the ani- mal, and by subsequent accurate anatomi- cal examination. As far as I have observed, divided earth worms, and most decapitated snails perish ; and I know that we may decollate the latter very completely, and yet but partially remove the brain ; the repro- duction of which would not then appear so wonderful, for even in the higher classes of animals, the life of parts seems to operate so as to convert surrounding substances in- to their own nature and structure. In the higher classes of animals, in which distinct organs are allotted for carry- ing on the vital functions, if parts be de- tached, they necessarily perish, for the269 LECTURE VI. springs of the vital actions are removed. There can be no supply of blood or nervous energy, for the detached parts are cut off from their sources. There is no manifesta- tion of the existence of life in the detached part, except by the delay of putrefaction, and the continuance, for a time, of the phenomena of irritability. To this striking evidence of the exis- tence of life in detached parts, I directed your attention in the introductory lectures ; nor do I perceive any reason to add to what was then said, in order to persuade an unprejudiced person that it is a super- added power, only inherent in the visible structures to which it is connected. But on the present occasion, I would ask, whe- ther irritability alone is capable of causing all the phenomena which take place in the reproductive processes I have now referred to ? Can it alone produce assimilation and decomposition, and all the varieties of growth and organization ? Those who think the phenomena of life depend on organization, must necessarily suppose as many kinds of life as of structures, and stillLECTURE VI. ‘270 assign no cause for the production of such structures. Those who think that irrita- bility depends upon nerves, must do so by a violation of their own principles, for they must siqypose the hydatid to have nerves, though none can be demonstrated, even by the aid of the microscope. Yet if they choose to contend that the phaenomena of irritability in detached parts which possess nerves are maintained by their presence, it is impossible to refute them, for we cannot remove the nerves without destroying the irritable substance. The arguments which invalidate their supposition are, that irrita- bility exists where we have no evidence of nerves, and that it bears no proportion to the-magnitude of the nervous system. From the perplexities and obscurity ot other opinions, let me turn your attention for a moment to contemplate the simplicity and clearness of Mr. Hunter’s Theory ol Life. In all its functions he recognized an active principle, capable of producing motions in matter that would not move without it, and of controlling motions to which, from other causes, such matter has a271 LECTURE VI. propensity, and of exerting its powers in different modes and degrees in the struc- tures or substances in which it inhered. He thought that a similar vital principle was diffused throughout the body in differ- ent degrees, and to use the expressions with which his friends have furnished him, that the materia vitas diffusa communicated with the vital energies of the brain, by means of actions transmitted through the nerves or internunciate chords, as he called them; he also considered these actions to be productive of the sympathetic effects re- ferred to in the introductory lectures, and which are wholly unintelligible upon any other supposition. 1 In forming our opinions on the subject of sensation, I admit that a choice of diffi- culties is presented to us; and I prefer that which seems the least. If I judge, as I own is natural, of other things by myself, I shall be led into a dilemma that a man of great intellectual powers and acquire- ments has been, and whom I have al- ready praised for the important addition? he has made to our knowledge of the func-272 LECTURE VI. tions of the nervous system. As we per- form certain actions in consequence of rea- soning, he was induced to believe that brutes act in a similar manner from a si- milar cause. Regardless of the opinions of great numbers of highly intellectual men, that instinct is a blind impulse, un- conscious of the end which it effects, he maintains his own, and is consequently ob- liged, as he proceeds, to suppose that brutes have tradition. But I am sure, had he continued to examine their actions to the extent he might have done, he would have been compelled, either to relinquish his dogma, or to assert things still more in- credible. It would require more intellect and ability than falls to the lot of any hu- man individual, by experiment, induction, contrivance, and practice, to accomplish what animals perform without education or communication with one another. The full consideration of this subject, induced a philosopher to conclude, that the actions of animals were the result of laws established by an intelligent cause, and to express the opinion by the brief but emphatic excla- mation : “ Deus est anima brutorum.” \ etLECTURE VI. 27S further, as animals perform certain actions in consequence of feeling, the gentleman alluded to is led on to suppose, that similar actions in vegetables are also the result of feeling; nay, he even attributes to them the more subtile sensations of smell and taste,1 and believes them to be Undoubtedly actuated by the passion of love. As he has published all this in a scientific work, containing many highly valuable observ- ations, I conclude that he was firmly con- vinced of what he has asserted; which shews how opinions are acquired and esta- blished. We have only to think in a cer- tain manner repeatedly, and we shall be- come convinced of what at first might have appeared doubtful, or even improba- ble. It is therefore prudent, before we in- dulge in certain trains of thought, and suffer them to become habitual and predo- minant, to consider their ultimate tendency and probable influence on our conduct, both with respect to ourselves and others. It is surely right, before we enter a path which we mean to pursue, to enquire whi- ther it may lead us. T274 LECTURE VI. The long continuance of life, when the brain is removed in tortoises, the dissec- tions of that organ by Doctors Gall and Spurzheim, the late experiments of Le Gallois and Dr. Wilson Phillip, shewing that the vital functions can be carried on in warm as well as in cold blooded ani- mals, after the brain has been removed, provided, indeed, artificial respiration be kept up in the former class, all tend to shew, what comparative anatomy also teaches, that the brain is not essential to the vital functions. There are animals which have no brains, and in proportion as they possess them, so do they appear to have sensation, volition, and other faculties. Every portion of newly acquired know- ledge only corroborates the already well established opinion, that sensation, voli- tion, and the intellectual faculties are con- nected with the brain alone. The experiments of M. Le Gallois shew that there is an analogy in the functions ol the medulla spinalis in the higher and lower classes ol animals. In the latter, it isLECTURE VI. t 2 a, series of connected ganglia, each supply- ing the portion of the body to which it cor- responds ; and even in quadrupeds we some- times observe the medulla spinalis to swell out in portions, so as to appear like a series of connected ganglia, as is evident in the preparation which Mr. Hunter has exhibited of that part in the lion. The experiments of M. Le Gallois, shew that the nervous influence of portions of the body, corres- ponds with that part of the medulla spina- lis to which their nerves are connected ; that it forms a kind of center from which nervous actions radiate, and to which they tend. Yet according to the view I have exhibited of the nervous functions in the introductory lectures, it appears necessary that such actions should be transmitted to and from the brain in order to commu- nicate sensation and volition. M. Le Gallois, seems, however, to sup- pose, that sensation continues in the me- dulla spinalis after the brain is removed. Now were I to entertain the same opinion, I might be led on to suppose that a duck276 LECtURE VI. decapitated by the side of a pond, which has been known to run a few steps into the water, and swim a few strokes from the shore, was voluntarily taking refuge from injury in an element where it had formerly found security, was gratified by the feeling derived from it, and elated at accomplish- ing its object. The mind revolts from the supposition that nature would have formed the lower kinds of animals doomed to destruction, so defenceless, or, that they should repair the injuries they sustain in the manner they are known to do, did they possess the sensibility of the higher classes. Sensation seems allotted to animals in different degrees and faculties adapted to their peculiar situation. Were it how- ever possible that I should believe all that seems required of me, and go on to at- tempt to account for the phenomena ot life upon such principles, I know even- tually I should be compelled to believe that atoms were sentient, and intelligence universal. The opinion that sensation, volition, and277 LECTURE VI. t 3 other faculties attendant on perception are connected with the brain alone is natural to most men, confirmed by reasons so strong and clear, that they have convinced those of the greatest intellect in different asras and countries, and it is corroborated by all the discoveries in science. I have already ob- served, that we know nothing but the pro- perties of the different substances we re- cognize in nature; of the subject which supports these properties we seem, in every instance, to be equally ignorant. Mr. Hun- ter’s proposition, that the phaenomena of life are produced by something which is superadded to structure, cannot, I think, be disputed. But if this be granted, the facts which have been mentioned, call upon us also to admit, that life is not essentially perceptive ; and I further con- tend, that reason absolutely prohibits our supposing, that perception, with its con- comitant attributes of consciousness and volition, and its various attendant faculties, propensities and sentiments, can be the result of any arrangement or motion of insensible atoms. I know indeed I may278 LECTURE VI. be asked how I can suppose a distinct sen- tient principle to be formed, added, or connected ? To which I answer, it is im- possible to entertain any supposition on these subjects, because we can have no knowledge but what is derived from our perceptions. Yet I can firmly believe, that there may be, and are things, of the nature of which we can never entertain the least idea, from their having no correspondence to the objects of our senses. To me it seems, that true philosophy shews us the imperfection of our senses, and limitation of our powers j so that by a kind of light which it elicits from our own ignorance, it instructs us in the lessons of humility. By adopting the opinions which I feel it my duty to inculcate, we not only avoid many difficulties and absurdities, but also perceive the scheme of nature to be beauti- ful and benevolent; and we are excited to actions useful to others, and honourable to ourselves. Nature has given life an active power to vegetables, which occasionally evinces its activity even in them by irri-LECTURE VI. 279 T 4 table motions. The irritable actions ot life are however more particularly allotted to the animal kingdom. She has superadded to life sensation, but confined the sentient principle to the brain alone, and yet en- abled it to perceive all that happens in the body, and even in remote objects, as well as to regulate those actions which may contribute to the welfare of the perceptive individual. She has allotted sensation and faculties in various degrees to animals, adapting both their feelings and dispositions to the situation they occupy in the gradu- ated scale of existence. She has made man in the highest degree sensitive and intelligent. She has given him reason and sentiments of so exalted and commandiner © a nature, that under their excitement he will sustain and encounter what his nature as an animal most dreads and abhors. At the call of honour, or under the conviction of right, he will endure torture with seeming apathy or derision, and welcome death with smiles. In the exercise of his intellectual powers he is abstracted from his body, and unconscious of its existence.280 LECTURE VI, But I forbear to say more, for I have not received the appointment of professor of moral philosophy to the college. Yet it is a part of my duty to place before you, Gen- tlemen, a specimen of what I believe to be the ancient Greek philosophy of life, and a sample of some modern French physiology on the same subject, for your consideration and choice. Now though I have forborne to consider the structure of the organs of sense in ge- neral, I wish to say a few words on that of the human skin, which is capable, in all its parts, of distinguishing what are called the tangible properties of substances, because the skin forms the surface of the body, and there is probably an analogy in the cover- ings of all kinds of animals. Had the skin been exposed to the air, it would have either become dry and horny from evaporation, as we see in the dead subject when the cu- ticle is removed, or encrusted, from the same cause, by the residue ol the fluids itr LECTURE VI. c28 i pours forth. It is therefore necessary that it should be defended by an outer gaiment impermeable to moisture. The cuticle which seems a compact, though thin sub- stance, through which the water effused beneath it, when we are blistered, does not even transude, appears well calculated for this purpose. It is most exactly fitted to the surface of the true skin, descending into every groove, and rising over every emi- nence. Yet however neatly fitted this wa- ter-proof garment may be, it would be liable to be wrinkled or displaced by fric- tion, were it not firmly connected to the skin by a net-work of very minute, soft, and seemingly mucaginous fibres, which are therefore denominated the rete mucosumu This part is variously coloured in different persons; it is tawny in some, freckled in others, and black in the African. These investments of the skin do not appear to be sensible, and doubts have been entertained whether they are in any degree vascular. We must however, I think, admit that vessels arrive at the surface of the cuticle.LEET-URE VI. through which gaseous and watery fluids containing some mucilaginous and saline substances are eliminated from the circu- lating system. We see the sweat escaping from regular pores, and not irregularly transuding, as if it passed through in- terstices in the cuticle. Substances rubbed on the skin, gain entrance into the absorb- ing vessels, and it is very improbable that they pass through the compact cuticle, in order to arrive at their orifices. We see the ducts of the oil-bags terminating on the surface of the cuticle. It seems here right to observe, that myriads of oil-bags are disseminated throughout the skin, from which ducts proceed to the surface of the cuticle to anoint it every where ; and that it is most liberally oiled in parts subject to the greatest friction or evaporation. If we throw water upon our arms, we find it re- pelled in globules, as from a greased sur- face. Every hair also receives a small co- vering from the cuticle, as it penetrates that substance; which covering so tena- ciously adheres to it, that in taking off the cuticle, when the skin is slightly putrid,7 LECTURE VI; 683 we tear the bulbs of the hair from the beds in which they grew, and they remain firmly connected to the cuticle in consequence of this investment. There are processes of the skin entering the interior of animals, and though these differ materially from it in appearance, yet an analogy of structure may be traced in them, so that they may fairly be considered as internal skins. Their surfaces, to which also the air may have access, are every where besmeared with mucus, and there- fore they are commonly called the mucous membranes of animals, Mucus is an ani- mal substance, admirably adapted for the defence of the surfaces which it covers. It is mild and unstimulating, possessing a viscidity which causes it to cling to the sur- face it is designed to defend, and being particularly immiscible with other fluids, it is not likely to be removed by the liquids contained in cavities formed of such mem- branes, or even by the current of fluid when passing through tubes of the same construction. In evidence of this, I mayLECTURE VI. 284 mention, that the surfaces of fish are smeared over with mucus, which is libe- rally poured out from the orifices of nu- merous ducts, rendering the surface of these animals particularly slippery, pre- venting also any adhesion between them and the element in which they move, and serving the same purpose in facilitating their transit through the water, that greas- ing the bottom of a boat is known to do. Yet, though they swim through the water with such celerity, the skin is never de- nuded of mucus. ■ i • . ■ vi.; i - There are intermediate surfaces in ani- mal bodies, between those which I have described as external and internal skins, and these are also defended by appropriate lackers, which, however, I shall not de- tain you by describing. Yet I wish you to observe, how admirably the cerumen of the ear is adapted, from its obvious qualities, to defend and keep moist that process of the skin which lines the tube of the ear. Its tenacity causes it to cling to the surface it is designed to protect, it is not liable toLECTURE VI. 28 5 dry into a crust, as mucus does, nor to become rancid and acrid, like oil. Its bit- terness, they say, also renders it disgusting to insects, which might in our sleep seek to nestle in that passage. The necessity for the lining of the tube of the ear being kept constantly moist is evident, for when the cerumen is deficient in quantity, or faulty in quality, then the oscillations of sound, or the pulsation of the vessels, pro- duce vibrations in the tube, causing noises, which patients compare to the rustling of leaves, or the gushing of waters, and the beating of hammers. Though the exact structure of the cover- ings of animals, appears to be less accu- rately known than that of most other parts, yet from the general consideration of the subject, I think we are warranted in con- cluding, that Nature has either, from the texture of the substances with which she has invested them, or the qualities of those with which they are besmeared, cut off all communication between the interior of living beings, and the elements in which286 LECTURE VI. they live, except what takes place through tubes or passages which she herself has formed. Even in vegetables we observe some surfaces besmeared with adhesive wax, others varnished with resin, whilst the grasses are glazed with transparent flint. After the exhibition of the structures already adverted to, Mr. Hunter calls our attention to the fat of animals, which he considers as not actually making a part of the body, the animal being much the same with or without it. We find his atten- tion, however, excited by the great increase of fat in hybernating animals, prior to their becoming torpid, and there are contained in his MS., many observations and experiments which he requested his pupil, Dr. Jenner, to make for him, relative to this subject, in hedgehogs. The exterior coverings of animals are next shewn, which are to be considered as their cloathing or their armour, and re- specting them, it seems worthy of remark.287 LECTURE VI. that they are all made ol the same kind ol material, which is impenetrable to mois- ture. Hairs, feathers, scales, and horny cuticle, resemble each other in this particu- lar, and also in their chemical analysis. Mr. Hunter has shewn the analogy of the formation of feathers and hairs. Each is formed by a vascular substance, which ascends to some distance up their shafts. Hairs are bulbous rooted, and the stronger ones are more deeply implanted in the skin. The capsule of the bulb, which is tough and shining, being opened, is found to contain a very vascular pulp which can be injected, and ascends up the shaft of the hair so as successively to form it at the bottom ; and thus to increase its length. I cannot suppose this circumstance was commonly known at the time Mr. Hunter made these preparations, for a knowledge of this fact much diminishes our surprise at the ac- counts we have received of the plica polo- nica, in which disease the hairs are said to be ill-formed, matted, and to bleed from their roots.288 LECTURE VI. The hairs are sometimes straight, and sometimes curved or waving, and when of the latter kind they intermix and form a fleece. In birds and beasts the stronger hairs and feathers make an external coat, and beneath this we find a downy or furry vestment of the same parts, but of a more delicate structure. These garments of animals are, from their texture, bad conductors of heat, and well calculated to prevent external heat or cold from affecting the animal temperature. The garments of animals also exclude moisture from being oiled, either by unc- tuous fluids transuding from the skin, or from their being applied by the voluntary act of the animal; Nature having given to birds in common, and particularly to those that are aquatic, as well as to many animals, oil-bags for that purpose. The coverings of many animals seem merely designed for their defence, as the shells of tortoises, armadillos, and the scalesLECTURE VI. 289 of the manis. The coarse scales and spines of fishes, the bucklers of the sturgeon, and hard projections of the skin of the croco- dile, all serve the same purposes. The porcupine and hedgehog have quills like those of birds, but they want the fibrous part or plumage, and are remarkably strong and pointed. They may indeed be consi- dered as a defence to the animal, when they lie horizontally; but as it is well known these animals, when attacked, suddenly squat down, bringing their fore and hind legs near together, and putting their head between their fore-legs, then contracting their skin in a direction towards their belly, by an appropriate muscle, the quills are raised, and a chevaux de frise of pointed spears presented in every direction to the assailant. When the horny or crustaceous investments of animals are of one piece and unyielding, there is a necessity, whilst the animal is growing, for casting these cover- ings and forming new ones, adapted to the increased bulk of the animal; and we find that snakes and lobsters thus cast their skins or shells. itLECTURE VI. Mr. Hunter next displays the weapons and instruments which Nature has allotted to animals ; and here we find exhibited the spurs of the cock, the retractile nails of the cat kind, which must be considered as wea- pons ; whilst the fixt nails of other kinds of animals may be regarded as instru- ments, with which they scratch or burrow. The hoof of the horse is shewn, for it is used as a weapon. The horns ot animals, being displayed elsewhere, are not included, in this department of the Museum. The teeth seem to have been considered by Mr. Hunter chiefly as weapons and in- struments. Though teeth do not usually grow, yet those in the front ot the mouth of the animals, now called rodentia, are con- tinually growing, so that they project and prevent the animal from masticating, it not worn down by gnawing, according to the intention of nature. The venom bags, and tubular teeth, or fangs of serpents, by which the wound is inflicted and the poison in- jected, are shewn, and also the stings ot scorpions, bees, and wasps.LECTURE VL 291 Those animals which cannot hunt their prey, and would become victims of its re- sistance, can, by such means, instantly deprive it of power, and speedily of life. Such animals also as depend upon casualty for support, are generally formed to sustain long abstinence, without that decline ol power which occurs in others, and for the occasional digestion of enormous quan- tities of food. It is, however, but a small part of the highly interesting subject, of the means by which various animals ob- tain their sustenance, that falls within the province of the Comparative Anatomist to discuss ; it is that part only which relates to structure, the rest belonging to the Na- tural Historian. The proboscis of animals is to be considered as an instrument, and that of the elephant is here shewn. In this department of his Museum, Mr. Hunter also displays the electrical organs of the torpedo and gymnotus, his account of which is published in the Philosophical Transactions. I have already suggested in the first lectures, what reflections they pro- u 2LECTURE VI. <2 bably induced. Me has put up equal por- tions of the brain and medulla spinalis of the raia torpedo, and a more common ray fish of equal size, so that they appear like the front and back view of the same prepa- ration, in order to shew their disproportion, and the immense size of the nerves which go to the electrical organs. How strange and unexpected is this mode of defence and assault, which probably palsies the prey or assailant. Even the polype seems to have a power of inflicting sudden death ; but by what means, is not, I believe, ascertained. The worm which it seizes, is swallowed without resistance, or its struggles would lacerate the tender body of its devourer. I have thus, as briefly as possible, told you what are the facts, and their arrangement, which Mr. Hunter has exhibited, relative to these parts of the animal economy in general. An adherence to the chief object of these lectures, which is to exhibit Mr. Hunter’s opinions relative to the principal vital functions, has obliged me to hurryLECTURE VI. 293 U 3 through these last departments of the Mu- seum, and prevented me from noticing many interesting facts belonging to less important parts of the subject. I may, however, mention that Mr. Clift informs me, when Dr. Schreibers of Vienna, whose account of the anatomy of the siren lacertina is published in the Philosophical Transac- tions of the year 1801, (which is the only animal known to possess both lungs and gills, and consequently fitted to live both in air and water,) inspected the preparations of the pulmonary and other organs of that ani- mal contained in the Museum, he was sur- prized to find that Mr. Hunter knew near- ly, if not all the facts relating to its ana- tomy, which he himself had been able to communicate to the public. Two species ol the siren were examined by Mr. Hun- ter, one of which was brought from South Carolina in 1758, and afterwards bought by him. Also, after Dr. Latham had pub- lished his account of the conformation of the larynges of various birds*, he was sur- Linnean Transactions, Vo], iv.LECTURE VI. 294< prized to find that Mr. Hunter had exhh bited most of the facts contained in his paper on that subject, and several varieties, with which he was unacquainted, but which he deemed worthy of being communicated to the public. Now almost all the prepa- rations in the Hunterian Collection were made before the year 1780, and have been publicly exhibited since the year 1783. We must therefore consider Mr. Hunter as the discoverer of all the facts, ascer- tained by his preparations, that were not publicly known before that time ; whilst the open evidence and communication of his labours entitle him further to be re- garded as the prime mover in those inves- tigations, and as the source of that light, by which the subject of the comparative struc- ture and functions of living beings in ge- neral, has of late been so highly illumined.( 295 ) u 4 LECTURE VII. It is one of the characteristics of living beings, that they multiply their species ; which they sometimes effect in consequence of subdivisions of their bodies, or by the production of shoots, that afterwards be- come detached. Both these modes are evi- dent in vegetables and polypes. In general, however, the multiplication of the species is effected by the production of seeds and eggs, containing nutriment for the germ of the future vegetable or animal, which, thus supported, grows till it acquires powers of deriving nourishment from other sources. o Those animals, which multiply their spe- cies in this manner, are said to be ovipa- rous. Sometimes the ova seem to be hatched within the body of the parent, and, under such circumstances, the animals are said to be ovoviviparous. This mode of multiplication is frequent in the lower kinds of animals, but it is met with also inLECTURE VII. 296 the class mammalia, amongst the oppose sum tribe. From observing the peculiari- ties of structure in the sexual organs of the animals last mentioned, Mr. Hunter was convinced that they did not produce their young like other quadrupeds ; yet he was unable to get the American oppossum to breed in this country. The facts have been ascertained, since our more free communica- tion with New Holland. That large animal, the Kangaroo, produces a young one, not exceeding twenty grains in weight, which is received into the abdominal pouch of its parent, and being there protected from cold and injury, clings to the nipple of its mother, and takes sustenance according to its wants. It is curious to observe the dif- ference of form between the parent and its young offspring. The mother has mon- strous hind legs by which she springs to a surprizing distance, whilst her fore paws are very diminutive, serving merely to feed and to scratch with. On the contrary, the young Kangaroo has monstrous fore paws, with which it clings to the nipple of its mother, and scarcely any hind legs; so297 lecture VII. that its form, at its birth, is suited to its present exigencies, and not to its iiituie modes of life. By degrees, the young Kangaroo fills and distends the abdominal pouch, and peeps abroad through its aper- ture, which gives the first' intimation to others, that its parent has become a mo- ther. The common mode of the multiplication of the species, in the higher order of ani- mals, consists in the exceedingly minute ovum, containing no nutriment foi the growth of the embryon, but merely its germ. Yet this possesses powers of extract- ing nourishment from the vessels of its mother; and when the young has attained a certain degree of perfection, it is expelled from her body, and is, or will become, a miniature resemblance of its progenitors. Animals that bring forth their young in this manner are called viviparous. There are organs allotted for the form- ation of the ovum called female, but it never increases beyond a certain point,298 LECTURE Vli. unless excited by the application of a pe- culiarly stimulating substance prepared by other organs, called male. Sometimes both kinds of organs are found in the same vegetable or animal, and sometimes the organs of each sex are allotted to dif- ferent individuals. How far the preroga- tive ol the female organs may extend with respect to their power of forming the rudi- ments or primordia of the embryon before the peculiar stimulus is applied which is said to fecundate the ovum, is probably unknown. The female organs of plants will, I believe, prepare a seed, though no fecundation has taken place. The progress of the formation of the young vegetable in the seeds of different plants is known to vary considerably. In the common bean, the plumula or first shoot is very evident, and even well formed. Experiments on ve- getables might tend to elucidate the extent of the powers allotted to the female organs. Frogs and fish prepare and exclude their membranaceous ova prior to fecundation ; and some degree of organization is discover- able in that part which would produce the209 LECTURE VII. embryon, if fecundated. Female birds pre- pare and deposit their crustaceous ova when secluded from the^ presence of the male. From the magnitude of some of them, and the facility with which they are ob- tained, they have been made subjects ol interesting examination by various phy- siologists. Mr. Hunter began his examination in those of the hen and goose in the year 1755, and the industry and accuracy with which he noted all the changes occurring during incubation are evident. He has put up in his Museum two sets of eggs, shew- ing these changes from the first few hours of incubation to the maturity of the chick, and consequent conclusion of that process. As many of the appearances, however, are evanescent, or destructible by immersion in spirits, he procured beautiful drawings to be made of them by the best artists. It seems proper to mention, for it exhibits the peculiar character of his mind, that at the time of his death he was engaged inLECTURE VII. 300 some additional investigations of the same subject. These were the inquiries by which he was chiefly convinced that life was a great architect. He believed that vital actions begin simultaneously in various parts of the semi-opake and whitish areola which is called the cicatricu]a. He says that there is a zone of bloody points at a distance from the part where the rudiments of the chick begin to form. He suspects that blood is first formed, and vessels afterwards. He is certain that vessels forming in different parts of the areola, afterwards coalesce, and that the foetus is not developed, but built up.* I kept some pullets last winter se- cluded from the male bird, and Mr. Clift examined the cicatricula of the eggs which they laid in the spring by the microscope, without being able to observe any differ- * I have already mentioned that he believed that the vital ptocesses were carried on in the same manner in the uniting medium of parts that have been divided or removed.LECTURE VIE 301 ence in the organization ot the cicatricula of these and other eggs. He says, that theie is the same appearance of opake spots in the circumference ol the areola at a little distance from its disk, and the same kind of central opacity, which alter the heat of incubation has been applied for some time, become, according to Mr. Hunter’s description of them, a zone of bloody points where vessels form, which after- wards communicate with other vessels pro- ceeding from the center. There have been some persons, who, from thinking formation impossible, have been led on to suppose that the rudiments of all mankind existed in their first pa- rents. There are many who believe that there is some primary fibre from which all the rest are produced. I would ask them how and where they suppose this fibre to be formed ? If they answer in the ovary, they even then admit Mr. Hunter’s opinion, that life has the power of forming a fibre. . The ovum is formed in the ovarium by aLECTURE VII. 302 secretion from its vessels. It is impossible to suppose even a fibre to be secreted; we are therefore obliged to suppose such a fibre to be formed, either by the vessels of the ovarium, or by the vital powers inhe- rent in the ovum. The ovum is formed in a capsule of the ovarium, and is free to move when, an aperture is produced, either, by its bursting or ulceration. How far, I would ask, can we suppose the formative actions to have proceeded in so minute a substance as the ovum of viviparous animals? It is So minute as to be with difficultv discer- nible even by the microscope, nay, even after it has been for some time resident in the uterus, as has been' testified both by Harvey and Hunter. Yet this atom, es- caping from its cell, and failing to get into its proper receptacle, the womb, being like a seed endowed with vital powers, shoots forth roots, attaches itself to surrounding parts, extracts nourishment from them, and in due season forms a perfect but extra-LECTURE VII. 303 uterine foetus. Such cases, you know, are not of unfrequent occurrence. It seems, therefore, highly probable that the ovum, being endowed with plastic powers, forms its own parts, and proceeds in such for- mation to different degrees in different animals and vegetables; yet such actions are not continued beyond a certain point, unless the appropriate stimulus be applied to excite them. It appears then to be the prerogative of the female organs to produce an ovum, which, when excited by the application of some substance prepared by the male, be^- comes capable of beginning or continuing those actions which eventually produce a new living being possessing properties and powers similar to those of its parents. Without this magic application, plants may drop their seeds, and oviparous animals deposit their eggs, which though they do not seem destitute of life, yet never continue its actions, but slowly decay. On the contrary, after they have receivedLECTURE VII. 304 this specific excitation, they become sur- prizingly retentive of life; and though its actions are often suspended by adverse circumstances for a great length of time, nevertheless they afterwards may begin to build up the very curious structures of plants and animals, endowing also each structure with its appropriate degree and function of vitality. Some speculators in- deed have imagined that the primordium vitss originated in the male; an opinion that involves in it much absurdity, which I shall not attempt to expose. It seems re- futable by the former argument. The sti- mulating substance is a secretion ; and we cannot suppose that any thing which is or- o-anic can be at once secreted ; — it must be built up. I beg leave to remind you, Gentlemen, that it is not my intention to dispute about Mr. Hunter’s opinions, but merely to display them. If the male merely prepares a stimulus, it is requisite that it should possess powers of peculiar excitation, and that the ovum should be endowed with a correspondingLECTURE VII. 805 and appropriate excitability; and it seems further necessary that such appropriate pe- culiarities should be restricted to the indi- viduals which belong to certain species or genera of vegetables and animals. If such properties were not thus limited, but genera], hybrid productions might become common; and as the offspring resembles its parents, great diversities of vegetables and animals would be produced, so as even- tually to destroy all the original and strik- ing distinctions of form and character which Nature has instituted. Nature has also made mules in general unprolific, as if she had said, “ thus far may you go, but no farther.” I know that some exceptions to . this rule are occasionally to be met with, but to these the grammatical adage seems particularly appropriate, “ Exceptio prohat Regulam I-'ie offspring may more particularly re- semble the male or the female parent, or equally resemble both, as is evident in the common mule. Now, thinking as Mr. Hunter did about the formation of the era- xLECTURE VII. 300 bryon and its future growth, this resem- blance must have appeared to him extreme- ly curious; and he used, in his lectures, to record every instance that came with- in his own knowledge, with his usual accu- racy and fidelity. He recited instances of children who had never seen their parents, resembling them, not only most exactly in form, but also in manners, and in peculiai and whimsical habits. He mentioned also cases where children acquired the same dis- eases at the same period ot life to which the parent' had also been subject at the same age. He dwelt upon the resemblance of twins, and, (as in his lectures on sympa- thies,) actually wearied his audience by the number of facts he recorded, and the mi- nuteness and accuracy with which he de- tailed them. Such instances, however, are not only curious, as demonstrative ot the powers and progress ot the vital actions, but they also deserve general consideration; tor chil- dren resemble their parents not only m person but in mind. Nature has made usLECTURE VII. 307 to love youth, health, and beauty of form ; to delight in amiable dispositions, and admire various kinds of intellectual excel- lence. She has given ns propensities which tend to perfectionate the human race-; but we, for mere lucre, become wedded to dis- ease and deformity, malignity, folly, and even insanity, “ Quid non mortalia pecto- ra cogis, auri sacra fames ! ” But, if like Prometheus, we presume to give life in opposition to the laws of nature, we shall receive the same punishment, for our chil- dren will become the vultures that will prey upon our vitals. In investigating this part of the works of. Nature, the multiplication of the species, we perceive, as in other instances, the same uni- formity of design, and diversity of means; the same gradation, and seeming concate- nation in their series. Yet this concatena- tion, though delightful and interesting to our observation, is perplexing to our under- standing ; for each link pf the chain is per- fectly independent on the other, nor does any necessity for such series and order, or x 2SOS LECTURE VJI. seeming connexion appear. Still, how- ever, it produces on the mind, effects simi- lar to those which are derived from view- ing a highly-finished picture, wherein the shades and variety of light and colour are so softened down and blended together, that it is difficult to say where the one ends or the other begins. In examining the sexual organs of vege- tables, we find the males and females in general included in the same flower, and sometimes so arranged, that the pollen oi the males is likely to fall upon the stigmata of the females, both of which circumstan- ces seem calculated to ensure fecundation. Yet, in other instances, we find the male organs in one flower, and the females in another of the same plant. Again, in other instances, the male and female flow- ers are on different plants, so that the process of fecundation is left to be effected by the sport of winds, or the occupation of the bee, which, having collected the pollen, or bee bread, from the male flow- er, transports it beneath his hairy thighsLECTURE VII. 309 to the female, which he visits, to suck the honey from its nectary ; and thus undesign- ingly applies part of the pollen to the stig- mata. When the male and female parts are included in the same flower, we find each of them varying in number from one to twenty and more. We find in some in- stances the males proportionately much more numerous than the females, and in others the number of females far exceeding that of the males; and we are unable to assign any adequate reasons for the facts we observe. Yet in examining all the works of Nature we find the same difficulty; we know not why those works are formed as they are. It is a problem that can only be solved after Captain Shandy’s method, by saying, “ it is the will of heaven, brother,” which, as he replies, is cutting the Gordian knot, without attempting to untie it. In the seeds of most plants, much more nutritive matter is found, than is necessary to supply the young plumula, till it acquires means and powers of deriving sustenance from other sources, and this surplus affords310 LECTURE VII. nourishment to animals which feed on such seeds or grain. In the various kinds of fruits, a great quantity of esculent matter is produced, which must be considered as' designed for the food of animals. In the accomplishment of this object, we again observe an extreme diversity of means ; sometimes the seeds are contained in the center of the fruit ; and sometimes set in the circumference, or surface. Sometimes the little embryon of the young plant, with the esculent substance, is included in a firm case. In those plants, which thrive every where, the seeds are light, and scat- tered abroad by the air; and some are curiously feathered to prolong their flight, whilst others, adapted to peculiar situations, are heavy. Even animals are made to dis- seminate vegetables which serve them for food, for, having eaten the seeds, some pass undigested through their bowels, and vege- tate where deposited, in ground thus also manured. The seeds of some vegetables probably contain scarcely any thing but the germ of the young plant, and do not there- fore vegetate, but under favouring cjrcum-311 LECTURE VII. x 4 stances. Those of the mushroom kind are perhaps as good an instance as can be pro- duced. The multitudinous seeds appear to the naked eye a most subtile and light dust, which when diffused through the air, forms an evanescent cloud. Nature has made also some animals mo- noicous, and placed the male and female parts in the same individual; though in general she has allotted them to different in- dividuals, particularly in the higher classes, and given to each its distinguishing sexual character. The male is in general the largest and the strongest; but there are exceptions to this rule, shewing that this ordinance is not the result of necessity. As the vital powers of animals speedily decay and shortly cease, the production of successors becomes a most important object.* Nature has there- fore given animals of different sexes the strongest propensities so to communicate * ITow exceedingly various is the duration of life in different vegetables and animals ! Yet for this variety we can discern no adequate cause.LECTURE VII. SV2 with one another as to produce the fecun- dation of the ovum, and she has limited this propensity to individuals of the same species, and ordained a repugnance to gra- tify such desires with others. She has caused such desires to occur only annually in some animals, and at different periods in others ; at times, however, favourable to the production or support of the future young. The sexual organs seem to wither during the sterile interval, and most sur- prizingly to enlarge during the breeding season, which affords us a means of judg- ing of what are the sexual organs in the lower kinds of animals. This temporary excitement of the vital actions, and corres- pondent alteration in the appearance of the organs, seem to have interested the mind of Mr. Hunter; and he has put up as a contrast, the organs which prepare the fecundating fluid of the sparrow, as they appear during these different seasons. There is a circumstance relative to the female of the human race that deserves the consideration of the philosophical physi-313 LECTURE VII. ologist. A monthly discharge takes place from the uterine cavity ; it is of a nutritive quality, resembling blood, and from its quantity, languor and weakness is induced whenever it occurs. Why nature should have doomed the human female to the periodical loss of so much nutriment and proportionate power, is a problem that can only, in my opinion, be solved by supposing that it relieves uterine irritation, and miti- gates the extreme of sexual desire ; thus enabling her to conform to the laws of mo- rality, and the social compacts that are es- tablished between us. That Mr. Hunter viewed the whole of this subject in the light I have endeavoured to represent it, seems manifest from the arrangement he has adopted; for he has exhibited all the varieties of the sexual or- gans, first in vegetables and afterwards in animals. He has also shewn the females as they are found before and after impreg- nation. His mind, however, seems to have been greatly excited by the diversity oi means which Nature has contrived to314 LECTURE VII. secure the life of the defenceless young, and to supply it with nourishment suited to its tender age, when it is incapable of supporting itself. In his paper on bees, he appears much interested in observing, that their eggs are deposited in separate cells, before .which there is a kind of platform ; that the labour- ing bees bring regular supplies of bee bread, at stated times, for the young maggots; that when these begin to spin and assume their pupa state, the labourers close the mouth of their cells, and cease to bring them food ; that they return exactly at the time when the maggot has undergone its metamorphosis and become a perfect bee ; that they now unclose his cell and bring him honey, the sweet food which is to be his future support, and which he is aiter- wards to collect and lay by with such inces- sant toil during the summer season, to serve as a common store for himself and the community, when the inclement win- ter has cut off those sources from which it has been obtained ; and that, on the veryLECTURE VII. 315 day following his transformation, lie is sent off with the swarm to participate in its provident industry. In his paper on the secretion from the crops of brooding pigeons, he observes, that it is not alone in the class mammalia, that Nature has ordained the parent to supply nourishment to the young from its own body, for that pigeons feed their young with a secretion from their crops, which they bring up and project into the throats of their offspring. This secretion does not take place except at the required time, and it occurs chiefly in the male bird, to which the office of feeding the young is principally allotted. We account for the secretion of milk in the breasts of females, from their sympathetic connexion with the other sexual organs, but the fact just men- tioned, cannot be accounted for in this manner, nor, indeed, upon any law of ne- cessity. Mr. Hunter, whose habit it was to think upon every subject, seems inclined to attribute it to a feeling of fondness ; for he observes, that the male bird acts in the316 LECTURE VII. same manner when he caresses his mate. Nor is this supposition improbable, for we know that certain feelings evidently affect the different secretory organs of our own bodies. Mr. Hunter exhibits the nests of birds and field mice amongst the preparations, which display the anatomical facts relative to the nourishment and defence of the young. This seems on a par with the hya- cinth root which I formerly mentioned. Neither shew any thing which is not known to the most ignorant, but both evince what were his habitual thoughts, and at the same time display a simplicity of character by no means common. Hull indeed must that mind be, which could examine the extreme variety and ingenuity of the means employed for the protection and support of the offspring, and their adequateness to the purpose for which they seem intended, without feeling the strongest excitement. The subject in general, however, belongs to the natural 1317 LECTURE VII. historian. The department of the anato- mist ends, after having recounted those circumstances which relate to the structure and animal economy of living beings, that are calculated for the purposes just recited. According to this division of the subject, I may mention, that whilst some animals build nests or habitations to cherish their young, others have them formed in their own bodies. Of this I have already men- tioned one instance when speaking of the marsupial quadrupeds which are ovovivipa- rous. The Pipa or Surinam toad excludes its eggs like other animals of the same kind, yet the young toads become afterwards lodged in separate cells on its back. The pouches of marsupial animals are perma- nent, and they suckle their young, but there are no cells in the back of the Pipa during its unimpregnated state, nor do these cells appear to secrete any thing ; neither have they any communication with the interior of the animal; all which circumstances Mr. Hunter took much pains to examine and display. Why this great toad should difFer in this manner from others of theLECTURE VII. 318 same kind, how the cells are formed, or the young get into them, is not 1 believe known, yet surely no one who has atten- tively examined and considered the works of Nature, can doubt of there being good and sufficient reasons for this peculiar de- viation from the commonly established structure and economy of such animals. It Is from the consideration of the means by which the continuance of the different species of animals is ensured, that we de- rive the firmest conviction of the works ot Nature being neither the effect of necessi- ty, nor of chance ; and therefore it follows that they must be the effect of causes and laws inscrutable by man. The young ol some animals are born with very perfect senses and powers, so that they scarcely need maternal care. Yet as young ani- mals cannot have experience, and must be exposed to danger from their deficiency of size and strength, the mother generally nurses them, and directs their conduct, till they are able to procure their own sus- tenance, and secure or defend themselves.319 lecture VII. When the mother must seek her food, and be absent from her nursery, the young are born with scarcely any vision ; whilst others have such perfect senses and powers as to be able to accompany their mother in search of food. d he most helpless and imperfect offspring is that of the human race; but the long nursing which is re- quired, creates and strengthens reciprocal attachment between it and its paients, which continues throughout life; so that according to the laws of Nature, chil- dren are disposed to return such kind at- tentions when age shall have reduced their parents to feebleness and second child- hood. How opposite to all this is the mode by which the cuckoo species is con- tinued? The parent has no solicitude about its young, yet Nature has taught it to ensure the continuance of the species by depositing its egg in other birds’ nests. How curious is it that the just hatchod cuckoo should have peculiar appendages to its wings, with which it can confine the legitimate offspring against the sides of the nest, and that it should possess in-320 LECTURE VII. stincts which cause it to protrude them one by one out of its cavity.* How cu- rious also is the mode by which the con- tinuance of the species of the oestrum equi is effected? Surely it is wonderful that this fly, as if endowed with intelligence, or instructed by experience, should never de- posit its eggs, but in those parts of the horse to which that animal can apply its mouth, so that they may be swallowed. By this means the larvae are provided with a warm lodging and plenty of food during the win- ter season, and are not expelled till spring, in order to undergo their metamorphosis into perfect flies. I must not proceed fur- ther in this endless subject, the full investi- gation of which, has conyinced the most intelligent of mankind, that the order of Nature is the result neither of necessity J nor chance. Every part seems perfect in its design, and calculated for the good of the indi- * Cuckoos however have been known to hatch their own eggs.321 LECTURE VIT. victuals which compose it; yet these indi- viduals are often supported at the expence, or by the destruction of others. The less powerful animals herd together, and set watches to warn them of approaching clan- ger; as they are exposed to invasion, and the destruction of their companions by the solitary and fierce tyrants of the forest that issue from their secret dens. Nature has however made the animals that are liable to destruction exceedingly prolific, so that their race cannot well be exter- minated ; whilst she has made destructive animals in general unproductive; and when it happens otherwise, we find means which counteract their excessive multiplication. Why Nature has formed carnivorous ani- mals, or produced such a variety of living beings, is a problem difficult to explain. \ et, this being a part of her plan, we can- not but admire the means by which it is accomplished; for every thing contributes to promote the welfare of the individuals in their proper sphere, and to ensure the continuance of their kind according to its destined proportion, so that centuries elapse yLECTURE VII. SV2 without the extinction of a single species. All animals seem also to be put under the dominion of man ; and as his species mul- tiplies, it fosters and feeds the useful and innocent, and destroys those of a contrary character. From observing the art with which pre- daceous animals entrap their prey, and the fury with which they destroy it, some are inclined to represent the scheme ol Nature as one of fraud and rapine. Yet surely, it is better that animals should sud- denly perish for the good of others, than that they should be doomed to linger, and ultimately to starve, from that want which excess of multiplication must necessarily produce. Be it also remembered that ma- ny of these creatures have little sensation, that all are far less sensitive than man, and that they neither anticipate the future, nor reflect on the past; so that their sufferings are transient, and necessary to general good. There are some who are inclined to represent the sufferings of animals as cala- mitous ; but surely they have not consi- 1323 LECTURE VII. tiered that pain is Nature’s monitor, and contributory to the welfare of the sufferer, by teaching it to avoid what is injurious. Neither do they seem to have reflected that it is the necessary reverse of pleasure ; and that without enduring the occasional penalty of the one, we should not enjoy the more continued comfort and delight of the other. It seems strange, that some minds ap- pear to delight in blaming what they do not understand, and to feel a repugnance to believe, that any thing may originate in causes which they cannot comprehend; and, therefore, probably they are induced to suppose a kind of necessity. All nature is full, says one reputed philosopher. What- ever can be, is; says another. But it would be far more easy to shew cause why we should believe that there is a ple- num of matter, than of contrivance. On the contrary, however, the most in- telligent men who have studied the works of nature to the greatest extent, and with y 2LECTURE VII. 324 the greatest attention, have been convinced, that they are the results neither of necessity nor of chance ; and, consequently, that in- telligence must have operated in ordaining the scheme and order of the universe. The common sense of the bulk of mankind, who judge from general observation, leads them to entertain the same opinion. Both agree, that in examining the works of na- ture, whatever they understand seems most admirable ; and when they cease to admire, conclude that they do not understand ; for “ ’tis but a part they see, and not the whole.” They also clearly perceive that partial evil tends to general good. You, Gentlemen, must examine this highly interesting subject for yourselves ; for when I consider what might be said and { 0 shewn with relation to it, I feel ashamed of the inadequateness of the representation I have given ; which, nevertheless, I hope may be useful, by exciting you to enquiry. You must either form your own opinions, or confide in those of others, lo form cor- rect opinions it is necessary that all the325 LECTURE VII. facts belonging to any subject, should be attentively examined and considered, with- out prejudice or partiality ; and this is no light labour. It is a task more suited to an ancient Grecian philosopher, than to one of the present school; for the latter is busied in collecting new facts, in adding to the stock of knowledge, and is consequently apt to take partial views of subjects, and not sufficiently to contemplate the general system of nature. I have now led you round the gallery of the Museum, and have briefly informed you what probably were the designs of Mr. Hunter, in the preparation and arrange- ment of the subjects there exhibited. Having restricted myself to the consider- ation of those facts only, which form the basis of his opinions relative to the prin- cipal vital processes j I have been pre- vented from noticing many important cir- cumstances, belonging to other subjects, in anatomy and physiology. The gallery of the Museum is, however, but a small por-LECTURE VII. 326 tion of it, and throughout the whole, we observe Mr. Hunter’s solicitude to procure evidences of every important fact relative to the subjects in which he was so greatly interested; and also the same genius and reflection displayed, in endeavouring to interpret the works of nature, and to ar- range and concatenate the facts, according to their series and order, so ■ that each should be distinctly seen, both by itself and in relation to others. Now, though what I have said is so in- commensurate to the merits of the man I have endeavoured to eulogize, or with the claims of the subject I have attempted to discuss, yet I flatter myself that I have attained the objects I had in view in writing these lectures. I wished to shew in what manner Mr. Hunter had examined the various vital processes and also the general extent of his researches in Com- parative Anatomy, and consequently from what an extensive and well arranged series of facts, his notions of life had been de-LECTURE VII. 327 duced. Yet it is almost necessary to pur- sue the same course of reflections, that he himself has done, to be fully aware of the intensity of thought with which he has con- sidered many parts of the subject. In thus asserting the claims of Mr. Hunter, I hope that I shall not be considered as blind to the merits of others, or reluctant to ac- knowledge the valuable information which we have received from other anatomists since his time. I wished, also to corrobo- rate, by additional arguments, the opinions I merely alluded to in my former lectures, and which I consider to be those of the most intellectual of the Greek philosophers, that perceptivity, and the various proper- ties of mind, are not attributes of mere life, but probably of a distinct substance. Mr. Hunter’s Theory of Life has how- ever been said to be absurd and unte- nable, and even has been held up to ridi- cule by those attached to the physiological opinions that have chiefly issued from some of the writers of the French school. What those, who are advocates for such opinions y 4328 LECTURE VIE think, it is difficult to determine, because they do not explicitly declare their senti- ments. There is a mysticism in their ex- pressions and manner, calculated to delude the ignorant, and perplex those who have not fully considered the subjects under dis- cussion. therefore, it seemed right to place distinctly before you, in the first lectures of this year, the only opinions which the mind of man is capable of entertaining, re- lative to the causes of motion in matter. In exploring the cause of the contrary states of motion and rest, the mind’s eye alter- nately dimmed and dazzled, becomes weary and confused, and ceasing from the fruitless search, fixes itself upon a partial view of the subject, which it thinks it has obtained. We feel a strong conviction, that a more subtile and mobile substance, or a more attenuated species of matter pervades, acts upon, and is the cause of motion in that which is more gross and inert. Who can observe the seemingly vital effects which the warmth of the sun produ- ces, even in common matter, or the terrificS29 LECTURE VII. 6 and destructive consequences of intense heat, without thinking that heat must be essentially active, or that it excites actions in something that is so. Who also can observe the quick and powerful motions of animals, without be- lieving that something active is incorpo- rated with them ? The consideration of the vital phenomena call upon us to admit, that there is some power of controlling, exciting, and modifying those chemical changes, to which the atoms composing them have, under certain circumstances, a propensity, as well as of arranging the ma- terials in diversified structures. Philosophy must always be founded in Nature, and its rules be adapted to the subjects to which they belong. It is natural to man to ob- serve, to enquire, to reason, to believe in va- rious degrees up to perfect conviction ; and we may perform any of these acts, accord- ing to the precepts of philosophy. Scepti- cism has no right to boast of an exclusive claim to be accounted philosophical. Con- fidence may also be as philosophical as330 LECTURE VJI. doubt. It is absurd to expect mathemati- cal demonstration in subjects which do not admit of it, and the absurdities of deter- mined doubters have been exposed by writers both of a serious and satirical cast. Now, though the changes occurring in common matter are extremely diversified, and highly contributory to all the wants of living creatures, they are still so uniform as to afford a plea for maintaining, that they may be the effect of inherent propensities in the atoms of which this matter is com- posed. But to suppose that all the varieties of vital action and other facts belonging to the structure and economy of living be- ings, which we have been lately consider- ing, are the results of inherent propensities in the atoms of matter, unassigned and un- supported by intelligence, seems to me too absurd to require any attempt at serious or formal refutation. I have therefore, never, except in one instance, paused to make those reflections which the subject so constantly and naturally excite, and now331 lecture VII. in conclusion, I will only observe, that upon the supposition just mentioned, we must be led to expect the phenomena to be more uniform or more diversified; nor could we imagine it possible, that theie should be that regularity "in their series, and that adaptation of means to ends, which we so constantly observe. It has been said that « an undevout astro- nomer is madyet he only contemplates the immensity and order of the works ol ' Nature, and the causes of the varieties of light and seasons, so serviceable to the living beings which inhabit this planet, and, as he infers, to those of others. But what shall we say of the anatomist who observes the structure and functions of those beings, who examines their extreme variety, and regular gradation and connexion, without any feel- ing or perception that Intelligence has ope- rated in ordaining the laws of nature ? We judge of others by ourselves, and assuredly such a character must, by the bulk of man- kind, be considered as possessing either a deficient or perverse intellect.LECTURE VII. 332 The opinion that Intelligence must have ordained the order of Nature, is not only impressed by her decrees upon the bulk of mankind, but is confirmed by the obser- vations and reflections of the most ob- servant and intellectual individuals of the human race. Those who think that intel- ligence may exist distinct from organiza- tion, are disposed to admit that the intelli- gence with which they are endowed, may have a separate existence. Those who think that perception is not essential to life, but is an attribute of something different, are also disposed to admit the separate existence of perception and intelligence, and thus do these two opinions produce and support each other. Both opinions are natural to most men, and confirmed by the observ- ations and consideration of the most intel- lectual of the human race. i* Gentlemen, I was presumptuous enough in the first lecture to imagine myself that 0LECTURE VII. 333 honourable character, a British advocate*. I also imagined that you were impannelled as a jury, a tribunal in which we glory, and by whose decision we must abide. Now, however inadequate I may be to per- form the part I have arrogated to myself, you are fully competent to discharge the duties of the tribunal I have supposed you to form. You have the ability to decide and the power to punish. You can inflict the severest of all punishments, that of which the greatest despots stand in awe, those who may be said to be “ safe from the bar, the pulpit, and the throne,” yet trem- ble at the strong and open expression of general disapprobation. The medical re- public should legislate for itself, for the public in general know little of our pe- culiar studies, and may consequently esti- mate our opinions with respect to certain subjects at a much higher value than really belongs to them. We should not therefore suffer crude speculations to go forth, bear- ing the seeming stamp of medical authority, when they are contrary to the sentimentsLECTURE VII. 334 of the bulk of the profession, derogatory to its character, and injurious to society. In arguing the subject relative to the opinions which we are warranted to form respecting the nature of life, I disclaim having any allusion in what I have said to those of particular persons, and I have, as much as possible, endeavoured to conceal all perception of individuals, by massing them together in a crowd. I contend with no man about his opinions; for charity instructs me to believe that each forms the most correct opinions he is capable of doing. 1 contend only against the pro- mulgation of those that have a pernicious tendency. In the assumed character of a British advocate, I must be an advocate for liberty ; but then, it is for British liberty, for rational liberty, for liberty without li- centiousness, for the liberty that our laws allow, which confirm to every individual his natural rights, giving him licence to think and act as he pleases, or deems pro- per, so long as his actions do not tend to ILECTURE VII. 335 the detriment of other individuals, or to that of society in general. Let me not either derogate from my assumed character by neglecting to remind you, Gentlemen, that the consideration of the quo animo is the vital principle of the British law. There may be inconsiderate persons who commit error without adverting to its diffu- sively baneful consequences; who, thought- less of the course and contingencies of human life, may undesigningly broach opinions tending to weaken and destroy others which form the spring of every generous and noble action, and our only support under oppression and affliction. There may be those who do not perceive how our notions respecting life can influ- ence our conduct. But this indeed sur- prizes me, because Voltaire was so well acquainted with the evil tendency of his own doctrines, that he checked the con- versation of his companions, whilst the servants remained in the room, lest, ob- served he, we should have our throats cut.LECTURE VII. 336 That ignorance may not, however, be hereafter pleaded in mitigation of your ver- dict, I deem it my duty, with the utmost brevity, to represent the effects of different opinions upon human actions. For this purpose, I first select the case of a power- ful monarch, called by historians Sardana- palus; who chose for reasons, perhaps best known to himself, to write his own epi- taph, as follows. “ Eat, drink, and be merry; for the rest is nothingan epi- taph, says Aristotle, fit for a hog. It can- not be doubted, that Sardanapalus was one of those who considered the grave to be a “place of eternal rest.” To shew the effects of the contrary sentiments, I would ask, is it credible that Socrates, after drink- ing the poison, would have calmly dis- coursed on philosophical subjects with his friends ; or that Brutus would have stabbed the Homan he most loved, rather than suffer his country to be enslaved, had they not formed a proper estimate of human life, and considered themselves but as perform- ing a part, in the presence of immortal and337 LECTURE VII. mid intelligent observers ? Or why does the untutored Indian deride the cruel tor- ments of his enemies, but that he also believes he is going to the land where his father is gone, and would feel shame to be recognized a degenerate son ? r Being desirous to avoid all personality, and to contend only against opinions, it seemed necessary to denounce those that I meant to oppose, at the very outset, and in the first lecture; for if we try to hit a mark, and others are to judge of our suc- cess or failure, it is necessary to place the object distinctly in the view of the obser- vers. Yet even in ascribing opinions and conduct to a party, under the denomina- tion of modem sceptics, I may give offence; for some may suppose themselves compre- hended in it, though they do not actually be- long to it; whilst others may even think it unwarrantable to suppose that there can be any such party as I have described. Hesi- tation in decision is natural to many cha- racters, and caution, to a certain extent, is an indispensable ingredient in all those who have any pretensions to be accounted zLECTURE VII. 338 philosophers. But the party I allude to are not real sceptios, and their professions and conduct form a curious example of a vis inertia ; for after resolving not to think on certain subjects, they argumentatively en- deavour to prevent others from thinking ; whilst on the one side they reject a very few propositions, merely because they are defi- cient in a kind of proof that the subject does not allow of, and that cannot be rationally required ; on the other, they admit a hos, of absurdities, apparently without examin- ation. Therefore, upon the very grounds of their own doubt, they marshall and exercise pernicious and discordant opinions, drawn from every possible and remote source, with which they assail the opinions of others, that at least may be said to be innocent and use- ful, but which also confer a dignity on human nature, and excite us to generous and honorable actions. I feel it to be m} duty, Gentlemen, to prevent, if possible, the banners of physiology from being pur- loined and carried into such a service ; and yours not to suffer those of our profession in general, to appear in so disgracetul and mischievous a contest.S39 LECTURE VII. z 2 There are “ Smellfunguses,” and “Mun, dunguses”* in science. I pity the man who can survey all the wonders of the vegetable and animal kingdoms, who can journey through so delightful a district, and after- wards exclaim, “all is barren.” Still more do I pity those, though the sentiment is mixed with strong disapprobation of their conduct who, after having seen much to ad- mire shall, when they meet with a circum- stance they do not understand, presump- tuously dare to arraign the wisdom and be- nevolence of nature. In the progress of science, many things which at one time ap- peared absurd and productive of evil, have afterwards, upon an accession of knowledge, been found to be most wise and beneficent. I deem no apology requisite, Gentlemen, for endeavouring to impress on your minds certain axioms relating to philosophy in general, when they are directly deducible from the subjects of our peculiar studies. I have constantly and carefully avoided every argument foreign to the subject, so * Characters thus denominated, and pourtrayed by Sterne in his Sentimental Journey.340 LECTURE VII. that, if occasionally I may have appeared to sermonize, I have quoted both the chapter and verse of my text from the Book of Na- ture. I address you, Gentlemen, as students of that great book, and earnestly exhort you to study it with such sentiments as I have endeavoured to inculcate. The conviction that evfery thing tends to some immediate or eventual good is the greatest incentive to its study. It was this conviction that excited Hunter to such continual enquiry, or invol- ved him occasionally in the depths and per- plexities of intense thought; for he was never satisfied without being able to assign an adequate reason for whatever he observed in the structure and economy of animals. This conviction makes the study of Nature highly interesting, and may indeed be said to render labour delightful, or to medicate the pains attendant on its toil. To those who entertain such sentiments as I have en- deavoured to inculcate, every thing seems animated, beneficent, and useful; they have the happy talent of discovering even « Tongues in the trees, books in the running brooks, Sermons in stones, and good in every thing.”APPENDIX. Extract from the European Magazine for 1782, containing a Syllabus of a Course of Lectures on the Principles of Surgery, delivered by Mr. John Hunter, F.R.S., St. James’s, London ; 5with Anecdotes of his Life. This very celebrated Course consists of near an hundred Lectures. — It begins in the month of October, and continues till April, and is given every other evening, from seven to eight o’clock, the honorarium being four guineas. Mr. Hunter’s Lectures do not contain a Course of Practical Surgery, with the Oper- ations necessary for different cases — but his purpose is to give a comprehensive view of the system, and investigate the principles upon which the practice of surgery is founded, viz. — To shew the actions of the body and its parts when in the diseased state, with the actions and effects of nature to recovery — and the z 3 neces-APPENDIX. 342 sary and proper assistance to be given by the Surgeon. The principles of diseases are the first parts of surgery to be learned. They are to the Surgeon what the first principles of the mathematics are to the practical geometrician, without the knowledge of which a man can nei- ther be a philosopher nor a Surgeon. In our re- search after diseases, says Mr. Hunter, we ought not only to understand the case, which becomes the immediate object of Surgery, such as in- flammation, suppuration, mortification, &c. but also the cause of the effect; for without this knowledge our practice must be very confined, very precarious, and often applied too late. This knowledge opens to the surgeon varieties of treatment. It teaches him in one instance, to remove the cause — in another to increase the effect — in another to change it to some other disease—and gives him, what is the most essen- tial point, the knowledge of the proper moment for the surgical operation, where an operation is necessary. In the animal body the power of restoration to a state of health arises out of the Animal from its own mechanism and action. If the Animal was in all cases equal to the task, there would be no occasion for the Surgeon; but it is necessary in many cases to assist nature by the introduction of artificial powers — to in- crease the living powers of the Animal when iAPPENDIX. 343 z 4 they are inadequate - to retard them when vio- lent or to change them when wrong. Both the chymical and mechanical powers are made use of in Surgery. — Chymistry is introduced to destroy what cannot be altered — and mecha- nics frequently restore what had been acciden- tally or artificially destroyed. It is not only necessary for a Surgeon that he should know the different parts of an animal, but he should know their uses in the machine, and in what mannei they act to produce their effect. He ought not only to know the whole of any one simple ac- tion, or the knowledge of all the actions singly — but he should ascertain their correspondence mark their relations, and acquire a competent idea of the compound actions and general fa- bric of the machine. Operations should never be introduced but in cases of absolute necessity. A Surgeon should never approach a victim for an operation but with humiliation — it is a re- flection upon the healing art. He is then like the Savage in arms, who performs by violence what a civilized nation would accomplish by stratagem. Mr. Hunter having observed, that the great- est part of the books published in Surgery, con- tain little else than relations of cases, and344 APPENDIX. modes of treatment, and that the practitioners have been too easily satisfied with a collection of facts, without embracing the catalogue of diseases as a. system, proposes in his course to examine the theory and principles of diseases in a regular series. His doctrines are drawn from personal observations made in the course of an indefatigable life, with the constancy of a most adventurous mind. His ideas, his mode of rea- soning, as well as his arrangement of diseases are new; and he therefore has received little aid from books or from other professors. The novelty of his ideas occasion also the appli- cation of new terms, and those which he has given, he may consider as clear and explana- tory, since they are adopted bv others, and brought into use. The Course begins with the Physiology, or natural History of the Animal; but so far only as is necessary to the understanding the prin- ciples of diseases ; in which new ideas and new arrangements of the subject are introduced. The Physiology of Diseases follows—the ac- tion of medicines — and brings him to the con- sideration of diseases in general. The Diseases of accident being the most ob- vious and simple, in preventing the naturalAPPENDIX. 345 Operations of the Animal, begin the Surgical part of the Lectures, in which he explains the most simple modes of restoration. Then follow the diseases whose mode of ac- tion is similar to those arising from accident. As the treatment of diseases arising from ac- cident is various, those which are the most sim- ple come first in view. This leads him therefore to explain The first mode of union of separated parts, called “ Union by the first intention,” and Inflammation. On both these subjects lie is very full, es- pecially the latter, as it is one of the first prin- ciples in most diseases, and produces a variety of effects. Inflammation leads him to the second mode of the Union of parts j as happens in wounds where the first mode has failed, or has been neglected. This also leads him to The Union of Parts originally in contact only as the natural cavities, but united for very wise purposes, and which are called Adhesions. The cure of many diseased parts, as fistulas, indurated tumors, &c. The diseases of bones. The knowledge and cure of gun-shot wounds. Inflammation also makes a principal part in all specific diseases, as the Small-pox, Lues Ve~APPENDIX. 346 nerea, Cancer, &c and therefore he takes great pains to investigate its principles. Then follows Suppuration, and those actions are illustrated by the consideration of Compound Fractures, Hydrocele, Suppura- tion of the veins after bleeding; gun-shot wounds, &c. And in the second place, by the various diseases arising from spontaneous suppuration, as abscesses, diseases of the bones, diseases of joints, &c. — This leads him to the consider- ation of Granulations, their course, progress, kinds and use ; and also of Cicatrization. After Inflammation and its general conse- quences, he proceeds to treat of specific di- seases, such as The Lock Jaw. Scrophula. Poisons in general. Peculiar Poisons, as the Lues Venerea, Can- cer, &c. &c. This Course of Lectures is illustrated by a collection of diseases, and of Comparative Ana- tomy, which in point of curiosity, accuracy, and comprehension, is equal to any collection in the world. It has been made by Mr. Hunter347 APPENDIX. himself, and what chiefly contributes to its ex- traordinary value and advantage is, that he knows the particular history of the greater part of the diseases, which he has preserved — the patients were under his observation in the Hos- pitals — he has minuted the progress, and ac- counted for the various appearances and effects of each disease, with a fidelity that now renders his collection a most instructive school for the Student. Anecdotes of Mr. John Hunter. We have introduced the Syllabus of the Course of Mr. Hunter’s Lectures on Surgery in this place by choice, as he is the brother of the celebrated anatomist, Dr. Hunter, whose Lec- tures made the subject of our first number. When so eminent an example occurs of con- genial talents and contemporary distinction in two brothers, it would be an outrage to separate them. We might have been permitted to de- viate from regular order for the sake of so extraordinary and so splendid a circumstance; but when no method nor link is broken, it would have been unpardonable to have overlooked the opportunity of gratifying the honourableAPPENDIX. 348 pride of man in the exhibition. Dr. Hunter having settled in London, sent for his brother John, who accordingly came to England, being at that time in his eighteenth year. He im- mediately applied himself to the study of ana- tomy and surgery, and, for several years, he was employed in the dissecting-room, where he suddenly began to display his uncommon abi- lities. The doctor was anxious that he should go into partnership with him, and in the year 1758, declared him to be fully adequate to the important office of a Teacher; but Mr. Hun- ter, with a modesty which is always the at- tendant of genius, felt insuperable embarrass- ments and objections to speaking in public, and he declined the advantageous and honor- able offer, on account of his aversion to public speaking, and his extreme diffidence of his own abilities and skill. But he continued in the same anatomical pursuits till the year I76O j when, anxious for a more enlarged field of ob- servation, he went out as Surgeon General to the Army, first to Belleisle, and afterwards to Portugal. In this extensive scene, he indefa- tigably studied the nature and treatment of gun-shot wounds; and he acquired great cre- dit from his humanity and talents. He has con- stantly, in his practice, been an enemy to ope- rations— he has resorted to them unwillingly.31-9 APPENDIX. iin the last resource, although no practitioner has been more distinguished for a steady and skilful hand in an operation than himself, where necessity drew him to the expedient. — On the peace in 1763, he returned and settled in Lon- don as a surgeon, and came, in a very short time, to the possession of an extensive practice. Now it was that he began to form his system. In books he found, as we have mentioned, no other lights in the investigation of surgery, than what arose from the enumeration of in- dependent facts and cases, without reasoning and without principles. He totally rejected books, and took up the volume of the animal body. — He was as indefatigable in his pursuits, as he was adventurous in his conduct. Though an enemy to operations on others, he was re- gardless of himself, and exposed his person to all the active and artificial powers, by which he might ascertain the properties, and trace the effects of medicine on the human frame. He was not deterred by the shocks which such trials must necessarily give to his constitution j nor by the fatigue, labour, and loss to which they exposed him. He begun at the same time to form his collection of diseases j and for this purpose he attended the various hospitals, in order to see the curious cases, and to ob- serve, with his own eyes, the progress of theAPPENDIX. S50 various diseases, which he might procure into his custody. He from this time also employed himself in forming his collection of comparative anatomy. The whole together has cost him more than 10,000/. besides the labour it has re- quired in the preparations. Of this sum more than two thousand pounds have been expended in the purchase of dead animals only. In the year 1768, he was chosen Surgeon to St. George’s hospital; and in the years 177^, 1773, and 1774, having collected his ideas and observations, he assembled the pupils of that Hospital, together with a few chosen friends, and read to them, without expence, a course of lectures on the principles of surgery. In the year 1776, he was appointed Surgeon Extra- ordinary to His Majesty. Prior to his going abroad, he had been present at the dissection of more than two thousand human bodies, and in the year 1754, or 55, discovered the structure of the placenta, and the communication be- tween the mother and placenta. He had also employed himself a good deal, even at this time, in comparative anatomy, and had discovered the absorbing system in fowls, and in the croco- dile, which is one of the amphibii, proving by experiments that the red veins did ncu absoib. This was published by Dr. Hunter, in ins Com- mentaries in 1762. Since his return, as >'e351 APPENDIX. have already mentioned, he has been particu- larly earnest in his attention to comparative ana- tomy. He has a house and gardens in the country, on purpose for his experiments on living animals and vegetables. For the last five years he has employed in his house an ingenious draughtsman, who is engaged, at a regular salary, for ten years ; and also another person engaged for the same time, to manage and keep his preparations in order. He means to class the animal world according to their structure, in which he has made considerable advances. His objection to standing forth as a public teacher still continued — and it was only over- come by the intercessions of his friends, and by his own consciousness that he might be use- ful to students, in explaining the principles and analogies which he had observed in diseases, and reducing thereby the art to a more regular and less precarious system. Dr. Hunter’s li- brary is, perhaps, the finest in Europe in choice, scarce, and valuable copies, and it cost 16,000/. Mr. Hunter’s is comprehended in a few cases,' and were it not, he says himself, for the presents made him by contemporary authors, would hard- ly have consisted of a hundred volumes. His opinions therefore, are all his own, drawn from personal observation ; — he does not say that every doctrine is new — some of his opinionsAPPENDIX. 852 may have been given before — but they are new to him. He acts in his character of a public lecturer with the disinterestedness that has marked his conduct through life; for though the honorarium is only four guineas, the course continues six months ; whereas there are courses of lectures, comprehending both anatomy and surgery, which are gone through in the short space of six weeks. We by no means think ourselves qualified to pronounce on the merits of living teachers. It is our business to state the simple facts, and to be cautious that, in our collection of the materials, we are neither im- posed on ourselves, nor impose on our readers. the end. Primed by A.Stralian, New-Sueet-Square, London.THE HUNTERIAN ORATION, FOR THE YEAR 1819. DELIVERED BEFORE THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, IN LONDON; BY JOHN ABERNETHY, F.R.S., &c. / SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW’S AND CHRIST’S HOSPITALS. LONDON: Printed by Strahan and Spottiswoode, Printers-Street; FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROVIN, PA TERNOSTER-ROW. 1819., ; y '■ • • • f ■ c .» ‘ ' > -.i ■ j.-’.: v ' . * « 1 ; .««• v-_I .. jj- iAjj • -V - : .. 0 • - •fi; ' 2 . ) .. •' - ■ ' .HUNTERIAN ORATION, 1819. It is the expressed intention of the founders of this oration, that it should be rendered contributory to the honour of surgery, and of its intelligent professors ; which design cannot, in my opinion, be better accom- plished, than by showing what surgery really is; the nature and extent of the knowledge requisite for its clear compre- hension ; the intellect and talent necessary for its successful practice. Had surgery and surgeons been merely what their names imply, handywork and handicrafts, I never would have appeared before you, Gentlemen, to do them honour. For honour is due alone to intellect, and can be paid to nothing else. Why do we BHUNTERIAN ORATION. 0) honour those whose literary labours stand pre-eminent; or those who have exposed, or sacrificed their lives in the cause of their country, or in that of moral obligation ? Is it not on account of their having evinced superior powers, or firmness of mind / They have thus done honour to the whole human race, and can only be repaid in the same coin ; we return to them the tribute of honour, in proportion as they have con- ferred it on us. We indeed honour rank, but then it is either in blind obedience to the laws of custom, or because we associate the opinion of superior intelligence and elevation of mind with the possession of a dignified station. * Now, to show what surgery really is, it becomes necessary to divest it of that garb with which it has been clothed and obscured in times of ignorance; and it is useful to revert to the history of former times, in order to observe the circumstances which have promoted or retarded the progress of the medical sciences, or communicated to * The good qualities of the mind excite and engage our respect or esteem.HUNTERIAN ORATION. 3 b 2 them that bias, by which they have been directed to their present situation. Medicine, or the science which has for its object the prevention and cure of diseases, was held in the highest respect by ancient nations, and its most eminent professors were even venerated. But, surely, it was the beneficent object only of the science that attracted their applause and gratitude; for the means by which the object was to bfe accomplished were either not contemplated, or were merely supposed to be known. Various sovereigns have, doubtless, greatly promoted this science by their patronage, and encouragement ought to be given to it, as I shall afterwards show, not only by the government of countries, but also by the people in general. The successors of Alex- ander of Macedon first resolutely Opposed the natural feelings and prejudices of man- kind, by patronising the dissection of human bodies at Alexandria; which city they had made the great depository of knowledge, by the collection of an immense library, and which they also strove to make a splendid seat of science, and source of instruction.HUNTERIAN ORATION. 4 it was at Alexandria, that persons in general first possessed the ready means of’ knowing what others knew and thought, by consulting their writings collected in its stupendous library. How different must have been the state of learning and learned men in ancient and in modern times ! What surprising changes has the invention of printing produced ! An ancient student of any subject of nature or science must have sought for the information which others possessed, by distant visits, to procure the perusal of any work of celebrity, or the conversation of those engaged in the same pursuits. His knowledge, therefore, must chiefly have resulted from his own exertions, and if he deemed it worthy of being re- corded for the benefit of others, he knew that it must be communicated to them very gradually and slowly. His fame, as a dis- coverer, or improver of science, could never spread so as to reverberate to his own ears. His reputation must necessarily be of slow growth, and therefore his endeavour would be to make it lasting. As he could not compare his knowledge with that of others, he would strive to make his own perfect,HUNTERIAN ORATION. b 3 by completely mastering the subject he had engaged with, so that none should be able to do more. But now, when, by an indus- trious education, any one may possess him- self of the knowledge of the whole world with respect to any subject of nature, art, or science ; now, when every accession of knowledge is published at annual, quar- terly, or monthly periods; every little discovery is at once proclaimed, lest its author should be anticipated ; and persons in general become desirous of contending- O tor superiority more with one another, than with the subject, or with themselves. Yet this ready communication of knowledge greatly tends to its increase, by exciting general emulation and co-operation. It was at Alexandria, also, that persons of the medical profession first possessed an op- portunity of studying the subject-matter of medical science, the structure and functions of the parts of the human body. How absurd should we deem the conduct of a mechanic, whose business it was to rectify the errors of any complex machine, should he merely provide himself with the finest and fittestrt HUNTERIAN ORATION. tools for the purpose, and neglect to learn its mechanism, by which alone he can be able to discover the causes of the error, or stoppage of its different movements, and consequently what is wanting to be done, to render it again perfect or useful. Yet equally absurd would be the conduct of medical men, were they to study botany, pharmacy, chemistry, and natural philo- sophy, searching indeed through all the paths of nature, and the stores of art, for means of cure, and yet neglect anatomy, by which alone they can be able to distin- guish the nature of the difference between health and disease, and consequently what is requisite to reconvert the latter into the former; which is the only circumstance that can render medicine a science. It seems to be my fate, Gentlemen, when- ever I address you, to be doomed to speak of the importance of opinions; yet I cannot avoid it, the necessity of the case absolutely demands it; for the reasoning powers of man, which, when well directed, lead to the discovery of truth, and the formation of useful opinions, when misemployed, elicitHUNTERIAN ORATION. 7 L nothing but error and pernicious notions. It is a very great but very common mis- employment of our reasoning powers, to draw inferences from facts belonging to dif- ferent subjects, which are incommensurate with one another. Such irrelevant facts have been often designated by the whimsical and contradictory expression of false facts. We are indeed sometimes induced to reason from analogy, but then the similarity of the facts is so precise, as to warrant us in be- lieving that the subjects, concerning which we thus comparatively reason, arc essentially alike. Now without any knowledge of anatomy, or the animal economy, persons of the me- dical profession, by drawing inferences from mixed facts, might suppose, that a fire was kindled throughout the body to warm and cherish it, which, if in excess, might set our juices into fermentation, and thus produce partial or general disorder; they might suppose, that there were elements in the body, which ought to be combined in defi- nite proportions, and that different diseases might result from the excess or deficiency b 4HUNTERIAN ORATION. 8 of .one or other of these elements. They might suppose, that diseases were of an acid or of an alkaline nature; they might say, that there were powers, capable of per- forming functions, nay even poetically ima- gine essences endowed with such powers, and speak of animae presiding over the different functions, and of an arcliaeus or master- workman superintending the whole. You know, Gentlemen, that all this and more of the same kind has been thought and said by reputed sages of the medical profession. Since, then, reasoning from false, insuf- ficient, or irrelevant premises is productive of error, we cannot wonder, that when me- dical men in general first began to reason on the causes and nature of diseases, and the effects of remedies, if their speculations were wild, and the conduct which such opi- nions gave rise , to, highly injurious. We can feel no surprise, therefore, that a large party of the medical profession should segre- gate themselves, and resolutely interdict the use of reasoning in medical practice, stead- fastly resolving, in their conduct to be guided solely by the dictates of experience.9 HUNTERIAN ORATION. Neither indeed can we wonder, that even erring; reason still found advocates in the minds of men. Now you know, Gentlemen, that not very long after the formation of the Alexandrian school, in the beginning of the second century, before the Christian aera, Serapion and Phillinus, pupils of Herophi- lus, were the founders of a sect called the empiric, which was numerous, highly respectable, and which long continued to flourish, whilst the remaining party of the medical profession were distinguished by the appellation of the dogmatic or rational sect. In the very feeble and almost blind state attendant on the infancy of medical science, a caution not to attempt to advance, unless supported and conducted by an un- erring guide, seemed really requisite, yet to prohibit such endeavours in the present vi- gorous and enlightened state of medical science, would be as preposterous as to re- commend the conduct proper to be pursued in infancy, to be continued during the whole state of manhood. Though much might be said on this subject, it really seems unneces- sary to do more than to remind vou. Gentle- men, that the sagacious Lord Bacon has,HUNTERIAN ORATTON. 10 in this respect also, well displayed the re- sults of different dispositions or powers of mind, by the following simile. “ The em- pirics,” says he, “ like ants, only lay by stores and use them ; the rationalists, like spiders, spin webs out of themselves; but the bee takes a middle course, collecting her matter from the flowers of the field and gar- den, and digesting, and elaborating it by her native powers.” It was shortly after the establishment of the Alexandrian school, that, as Celsus in- forms us, the practice of medicine was first separated into three parts, and each part consigned to a different person, one of whom was supposed to cure diseases by compounds of drugs and other substances ; another by regimen and plans of diet; and the third by manual operations and instru- ments. This partition seems to have been both an effect and a cause of that confusion betweeu the object of medicine, and the means of accomplishing it, which has ob- tained more or less ever since that period. The bulk of medical knowledge, was, how- ever, at that time too diminutive, to permitHUNTERIAN ORATION. 11 L this subdivision to be continued, and we find succeeding authors treat equally on all these curative measures. The advantages which we derive from anatomical knowledge are, that it enables us to judge of the nature and probable event of injuries and diseases, by the exact information we possess of the situation and connexions of every part of the body; that it enables us to perform the operations of surgery with confidence in ourselves, and security to our patients; moreover, a correct knowledge of structure is the only founda- tion of all knowledge of function, without which, we can never be able to distin- guish the nature of the difference between health and disease, nor consequently what is requisite to reconvert the latter into the former, which, I repeat, is the only circumstance that can render medicine a science. Now, though the dissections at the Alexandrian school, were by no means so perfect as to produce any of the important consequences derivable from anatomy, yet they led the way to the general investigation of structure and function, and to the for-l°2 HUNTERIAN ORATION. which I am giving of the causes that pro- mation of opinions deduced from the facts belonging to the subject under consider- ation. The body of the monkey so much resembles that of man, that a moderately good idea of the latter may be obtained by the examination of the former; the desire to understand function would also lead to experimental enquiry; and consequently we find Galen, whom they say had passed several years at the Alexandrian school, making various experiments on animals, to determine the office of different parts of the body. Medicine was, doubtless, much promoted bv the opportunities of information which the Alexandrian school afforded; and it seems to have proceeded as prosperously as could be expected, in the still very deficient state of elementary knowledge, for several centuries ; when a revolution happened, by which all the sciences of southern Europe were in common overthrown, and their lights extinguished, so that a great district of the world was involved in darkness and ignorance for many ages. As the accountIS HUNTERIAN ORATION. moted, retarded, or variously affected the progress of the medical sciences, will not be clearly intelligible, without adverting to this revolution, I may be excused if I briefly endeavour to revive it in your remembrance. It was towards the latter end of the fifth century, that the hardy nations of the north ot Europe burst like a deluge into the Italian territories of the degenerate Romans, bearing down before them the ancient seat of their government, which, having previ- ously removed to Constantinople, was still able to oppose a mound that checked the further progress of this inundation. In tlie beginning of the seventh century, Mahomet established his religion and dominion in the East, subduing all Arabia; and his suc- cessors extended their empire over Pales- tine and Persia, Egypt, and the northern coast of Africa, from whence their influence was continued over those Moors, who had invaded and subdued the kingdom of Spain : such was the extent of the Saracen do- minion. But the Mahometans were prevent- ed from entering Europe on the east by the Roman government at Constantinople. The territories of the Romans were much di-HUNTERIAN ORATION. u minished, and were assailed on various parts of their frontier. The empire, how- ever, was still superior to these attacks, and according to the simile of a late elegant writer, it seemed like the trunk of an old tree, which still remained vigorous and un- shaken by the winds which assaulted it, and had stripped it of its branches. In the territory protected by the last exertion of the Roman power, science and art still survived, though in a state of rapid decline. Here the works of the Grecian and Roman writers on medicine, were chiefly preserved, and their languages were spoken. Here too, when the people in general had become illiterate, ecclesiastical scholars, who had read these authors, took upon themselves to give medical advice, but refused to shed blood, or dress wounds or sores, which task devolved on their servants. It was here, therefore, that surgery first made its public appearance, clothed in the garb of a menial. Anatomy was wholly neglected by the Arabians, nor was it till the beginning of the fourteenth century, that Mondini made public dissections in Italy, and byHUNTERIAN ORATION. 15 degrees, other nations acquired “ that useful boldness.” The zeal of the great painters, who began to flourish towards the close of the next century, and the patronage afforded to them, greatly contributed to the sup- pression of the public prejudice against dis- section in Italy. Michael Angelo, Raphael, Leonardo da Vinci, and Albert Durer, were all either frequent dissectors, or draftsmen of dissected bodies. It is curious to ob- serve, how speedily in general we reconcile our minds to that which custom has rendered familiar. The dissection of the bodies of persons who die in the hospitals of Paris, produces at present no indignation, no sen- sation in the public mind. Yet even in the time of Haller, the laws and prejudices against purloining a dead body, were so strong, that he left France with all possible speed, lest the receiver should be considered as bad as the thief. It was not, however, until the sixteenth century, that anatomy made any consider- able advances, when some great anatomists distinguished themselves, particularly Eus- tachius and Fallopius in Italy, Sylvius andIIUNTERiAN ORATION. 16 Vesalius in France. Vesalius pursued his anatomical enquiries with so much ardor and constancy, that he was able to publish seven large folio volumes on the anatomy of the human body, before he was 29 years of age (1542). These books, which entitle him to the greatest gratitude of posterity, were to himself, however, the cause of much vexation and trouble. Even at that time, the authority of Galen was held in such high respect, that when Vesalius showed his errors, and his ignorance of the structure of the human body, the hatred of all was turned against the defamer. People could not bear to be set right by so young a man, and even his preceptor Sylvius denounced perpetual enmity against him. I need not tell my present auditors what scrapes Ve- salius got into, or what injuries he sustained, in consequence of the public prejudice against dissection. After human anatomy had become mo- derately well known, the different nations of Europe were involved in war, and the same attention was not paid to the sup- port of academical institutions, for teaching37 HUNTERIAN ORATION. •anatomy and medicine. Therefore, anato- mists again had recourse to the dissection of animals, from which, however, they derived very important advantages. I hey were thus led to an extensive knowledge of the comparative structure of living beings in general, and to make observations and experiments illustrative of function. So that by these means, were all the paths leading to medical science fairly thrown open to enquirers. I must now relate some ridiculous cir- cumstances, which, however, gave a con- siderable bias to the progress of the medical sciences. The priests, merely because they were able to read the Greek and Roman authors on medicine, were the principal physicians, during the dark ages, as I may call them, of these sciences. They became intimate with the barbers, because the latter were frequently employed to shave the heads of the priests, according to the uniform of their order. The priests also frequently employed the barbers to shave the heads of patients, before they prescribed washes to cool the fever of the brain, or cIS HUNTERIAN ORATION. blisters to draw the peccant humours from the surface. Finding these fellows handy with edge tools, the priests taught them to bleed and perform such little operations as they were competent to direct, as well as to make salves and poultices, and to dress wounds and sores. Such was the origin ol barber-surgery. When, however, the Popes perceived that the medical practice of the priests took them from their proper calling, and obliged them after various edicts, re- luctantly to relinquish it, the office of phy- sician was then adopted by other scholars upon the same claim or pretension, that of being able to read the Greek and Roman writers on medicine ; and ever since, scho- lastic learning, and academical honours, have been considered as essential attri- butes to the character of a physician. In the fourteenth century, these barbers and reputed surgeons pushed themselves forwards into the practice of surgery in France, to a degree that induced the sui- geons in ordinary to petition the legislature to interfere* and an order was obtained that the barbers should not be permitted to prac-HUNTERIAN ORATION. 19 tise, except in slight cases. In process of time,however, the barbers attended lectures, and became as well informed as the inferior class of surgeons, and being still patronised and instructed by their old friends the learned doctors, they at length obtained an establishment as regular practitioners in France, under the title of barber-surgeons. Of this order was Ambrose Pare, a man of original observation, great candour, and abundant experience, whose works were well calculated to correct the bad and cruel surgery of those times. Wherever the priests practised as phy- sicians, the barbers performed the offices of surgeons. As, likewise, medical knowledge radiated from Italy to the northern nations of Europe, so they must have received the information mixed with any absurdity which it might have taken up in its passage ; and this, if we had even the discernment to distinguish, we seem to have wanted the resolution to reject, for the copartnership between surgery and shaving has been but newly dissolved in this country. <c Would' heart of man e’er think it e 2HUNTERIAN ORATION. VO but you’ll be silent.” This foolery wa^ continued so nearly to the present time, that even I myself have often doit my cap to barber-surgeons. Edward the Fourth, in the year 1461, granted a charter of in- corporation and privilege to barber-sui- geons; and though the distinct natuie of the two professions gradually became more and more apparent, yet they were not se- parated till nearly three centuries had elapsed, till the year 1745. The legitimate practice of surgery did not, however, remain uncultivated nor un- patronised by different sovereigns. My time does not permit me to relate various instances, and I question if more than one can be adduced, in which the means adopted were judicious and efficient. Louis theFoui- teenth, from being continually engaged in war, seems first to have clearly discerned the nature and importance of surgery, and the proper measures by which it might and ought to be promoted. He established hospitals, colleges, and professorships ; he ordered that lectures on surgery should be given by surgeons of acknowledged ability, 14HUNTERIAN ORATION. <21 and that bodies for dissection should be liberally supplied. By these means, he produced such a spirit of enquiry and emu- lation amongst the members of our pro- fession, that the French surgeons soon sur- passed those of all other nations, and pupils from every part of Europe flocked to Pai is to learn anatomy and surgery. As a further consequence of this patronage, I may men-» tion that it gave rise to that very excellent work, the Memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery, the contributors to which were laborious students of their profession, who regularly registered and arranged all the knowledge promulgated by preceding au- thors, to which they added their own observ- ations and experimental enquiries. It would, in my opinion, be honourable to the surgeons of any nation to combine and produce a rival work (due allowances being made for the progressive improve- ment of the science of surgery); for to me, these memoirs seem, even at present, to stand as it were alone, and in a state of lofty superiority. Let me not, however, omit to mention that before these memoirs came c 3HUNTERIAN ORATION. forth, a similar publication was set on foot in this country under the patronage of the first Professor Monro of Edinburgh. * It is unnecessary for me to tell you, Gentlemen, of the number and importance of the pe- riodical publications of our own country.. The facility of publication, which such works afford, prevents useful information from being lost, whilst they keep alive amongst the members of our profession in general a spirit of enquiry, emulation, and co-operation. Having thus adverted to the principal circumstances which have influenced the progress of the medical sciences, it seems only necessary to show the improvements made by the two late eminent physiologists Haller and Hunter, in order to place dis- tinctly within your view the present state of these sciences in our own country, which is my chief object in this address ; for in- deed it would be but of little use to look back, except in order to determine the di- # The Edinburgh Medical Essays and Observations were first published in 1732. The Memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery in 17-13.23 HUNTERIAN ORATION. rection and means by which we are likely I to proceed with the greatest advantage. Albert Von Haller was born at Beine, in Switzerland, in 1708, and died there in 1777. He possessed a well proportioned assemblance of vigorous intellectual facul- ties. His memory was surprisingly quick and retentive, scarcely any language was unknown to him, and all those m which medical records are written he both read and wrote with facility. He had great in- dustry, and made himself acquainted with all that others knew or thought relative to our professional studies. He had gieat method and discrimination, and regularly registered all the knowledge he obtained by reading or otherwise. Of his talents in selecting, condensing, and arranging in- formation from successive publications, his numerous bibliothecas afford ample evi- dence. Haller went to Leyden in 1725, where he became a favourite pupil of Boer- haave, and a fellow-student of Albinus. He also took opportunities of visiting Ruysch, to observe his anatomical labours. After he had finished his studies and his travels, he returned to Berne, and in 1 734 he taught c 4 iM HUNTERIAN ORATION. anatomy in an amphitheatre which the re- public had established for that purpose; he was also physician to an hospital, and en- trusted with the care of the public library, and cabinet of medals. In the first year that he undertook the latter office he formed a regular catalogue of all the books, and arranged and described in chronological order more than 5000 antique medals. King George the Second being desirous of pro- moting the reputation of the University of Gottingen, invited Haller to accept of an anatomical, surgical, and botanical profes- sorship, which he established for him ; and Haller accepted this invitation. The op- portunities of information at the school of Berne were too small for the mind of Hal- ler, and he there met with the usual diffi- culty of procuring bodies for dissection. Haller resided in Gottingen seventeen years, and made physiology his principal study. He found the knowledge of this subject encumbered and perplexed with false and absurd assertions and doctrines, which he removed, and endeavoured to make physiology as much like science as possible. He saw the necessity for an exactHUNTERIAN ORATION. c25 knowledge of anatomy, both human and comparative; for any reasoning withiespect to function which is incompatible with the facts relating to structure must be invalid. He saw no mode by which function could be scientifically investigated, except by ex- periments made on living animals ; yet in detailing these, we find frequent evidences of his being disturbed by those “ compunc- tious visitings of nature” which every good mind must necessarily feel at inflicting suf- ferings on unresisting or subdued sensitive creatures, over which nature has given us dominion. He examined all the principal vital functions with particular attention, yet he found no spring of vital action except in irritability, which he believed to be a pro- perty of the muscular fibre alone. He in- vestigated'the process of formation, both in the growth and reparation of bones, and in the formation of the embryon in the egg, which he believed to be developed. It was not, however, till after thirty years of labour that he thought himself warranted to publish his Elementa Physiologic, a work that certainly contains all that was then known on physiology, together with the alterations and improvements made by hisHUNTERIAN ORATION. 26 own enquiries and reflections; and its su- preme excellence, at the time of its publi- cation, was testified by the applause of every nation, and by proffers of invitation and re- ward to its author by various governments. The Nostalgia of Haller, however, induced him after seventeen years’ residence in Got- tingen to return to Berne, where he became a magistrate and politician, without relin- quishing his former studies. Such was the esteem with which Haller was regarded, wherever the sciences were cultivated, that most foreigners of distinction, and even princes, in passing through Switzerland, paid homage by their visits to the illustrious Haller. John Hunter was born in the county of Lanark, in Scotland, in the year 1728, and he died in London in 1793. He had received but little education; his mind had not been taught to act in imitation of others ; he disliked to read, as much as he liked to think. When Mr. Cline addressed the College on this anniversary, he said, “ Much as Mr. Hunter did, he thought still more. He has often told me, his de-27 HUNTERIAN ORATION. light was, to think.” Mr. Hunter did not begin to learn anatomy till he was eighteen years ol age ; but when the book ol natuie lay exposed to his view, he read it with facility, interest, intelligence, and dili- gence ; and the idle youth became a most industrious man. Like Haller, he devoted himself to physiology. Such minds could not but be highly sensible of the interest and importance of this study: they could not be contented with the mere notation of facts, without enquiring into their pro- bable causes and uses. Like Haller, he became an exact and comprehensive ana- tomist. No structure, nor substance want- ing structure, yet possessing life, escaped his strictest scrutiny. Like Haller, he in- vestigated the nature of function by expe- riment, yet how different is the conclusion of the labours and reflections, or the prin- ciples of the physiological doctrines of these almost contemporary and very extraordinary characters;—the one enriched from the pos- sessions of all others, and endowed with great degrees of intellectual powers ; the other, rich only in natural genius and talent.28 HUNTERIAN ORATION. Although I have not now to speak of Mr. Hunter’s physiological opinions, yet it seems proper to observe on the present occasion, that he was not satisfied with those of Haller, which he had heard de- livered in his brother’s lectures ; and there- fore he examined every subject for himself. He seems also to have wrought like an ancient student, not striving for vic- tory with others, but contending with the subject, and with himself. In the whole of his labours and reasonings, we may per- ceive a most diligent search for every fact belonging to the subject he was investi- gating, to form the basis on which he rea- sons ; the most anxious solicitude to de- scribe facts with accuracy, and to avoid the least misrepresentation of them; and in his reasonings, I can perceive no inference deduced from insufficient or irrelevant pre- mises. It is this mode of proceeding only, as I have formerly observed, which can give value and currency to the opinions ot any one. Mr. Hunter was convinced that life was not the result of organization ; and though many may have conjectured life to be something not dependent on structure,HUNTERIAN ORATION. V9 . Mr. Hunter was the first who deduced the opinion, as a legitimate consequence of legitimate facts, that life actually construct- ed the very means by which it carried on its various processes, and that it could operate in semifluid and even fluid substances. His intelligent mind further perceived that no system of physiology could be perfect that did not equally explain the morbid as well as the healthy actions of life. I may say, that he discovered a vital principle in physiology active in producing correct pa- thology. Therefore, he appears to me as a new character in our profession ; and briefly to express his peculiar merit, I may call him the first and great physionosolo- gist or expositor of the nature of disease. Haller was a physician, Hunter a sur- geon . both were anatomists and physiolo- gists, both therefore equally qualified, as far as their knowledge of the animal economy extended, to discern the nature and mode of cure of the diseases in either department of medical science ; yet, doubt-HUNTERIAN ORATION. 30 less, each most competent to decide upon the best means for effecting the latter pur- pose in that to which he had been edu- cated, and his attention chiefly directed. Medicine is one and indivisible : it must be learned as a whole, for no part can be understood, if studied separately. The physician must understand surgery, and the surgeon the medical treatment of diseases. Indeed, it is from the evidence afforded by external diseases, that we are enabled to judge of the nature and pro- gress of those that are internal; which appeared so clearly to Boerhaave, that though his object was to teach his pupils the practice of medicine, he began by teaching them surgery. Yet as medical science is so very extensive, and such accurate knowledge of its various subjects is required, the division of it into two principal depart- ments, which custom has established, may be continued with great propriety and advantage. So much knowledge and talent is requiste, in the division of sur- gery, for the correct re-adjustment of parts which have been severed and separ-HUNTERIAN ORATION. SI ated by violence; for ensuring their un- varying motionless position, so essential to their tranquillity and re-union; for sug- gesting and applying suitable means to soothe or correct the morbid actions ol susceptible surfaces ; for discriminating the great variety of external local diseases ; and for performing the various and com- plicated operations of surgery ; that it re- quires the whole time and ability of any individual to attain even moderate perfec- tion in this department of medical science. Whilst the no less extensive and impor- tant task of unravelling the intricacies of the symptoms produced by internal dis- eases, so as to trace them to their several sources, and consequently to decide upon their proper treatment; and of modifying the remedies employed, so as to adapt them to the varieties of circumstances and constitutions; equally demands the con- centrated observation and reflection of the physician. Indeed the division of medi- cine into two principal departments, which custom has established, seems also to have received the fullest sanction of experience-; and if we were not to acquiesce in it, we should subvert the institutions of societv,32 HUNTERIAN ORATION. and throw the whole profession into con- fusion. So much, also, is to be known and done in either department, that if we invade each other’s province, we must ne- glect properly to cultivate and improve our own. There are those who think that a still further subdivision of the subjects of me- dicine might lead to a more perfect know- ledge of them. Yet the ultimate struc- ture of all parts of the body being the same, their diseases must be similar, and treated upon the same general principles. If also, to investigate and understand any subject in nature, art, or science, a great deal of collateral knowledge be required, which serves like light shining from various points, to illuminate the object of our at- tention ; when we examine particular dis- eases by the lights emanating from others, here such lights will indeed be found to be most apposite and illustrative. It is by comparing 'the nature and treatment of diseases with one another, that we im- prove our knowledge and practice with respect to those of particular organs, orHUNTERIAN ORATION. 33 portions of the body. If, however, after ail enlarged education, if after knowing the whole, our observations were exclusively di- rected to a part, it is probable that increase of knowledge might result from such concen- tration of attention. Yet those, in general, who study the diseases of particular organs or portions of the body, think that they may save themselves the trouble of more extensive research, and thus their views become as circumscribed as the objects of their attention. It is both evident to reason, and mani- fested by the history of medical science, or by experience, that it can only be attained and improved in one way. We must understand structure and function, and the changes produced in each by disor- der and disease. There is no short cut, nor “ royal road,” to the attainment of medical knowledge. The path which we have to pursue is long, difficult, and un- safe. In our progress, wo must frequently take up our abode with death and corrup- tion ; we must adopt loathsome diseases for D34 HUNTERIAN ORATION. ✓ our familiar associates, or we shall never be thoroughly acquainted with their nature and dispositions ; we must risk, nay even injure, pur own health in order to be able to preserve or restore that of others. \ et if we do this, our profession will be held in the highest respect; not as in ancient times, merely on account of the beneficence of its object, but because it will be further perceived, that the means are adequate to its accomplishment. If, however, we are disposed thus to labour for the public good, some conces- sion, co-operation, and encouragement on the part of the public, may be by us rea- sonably expected. Anatomical knowledge is the only foundation on which the structure of medical science can be budt. Without this, we should but increase the sufferings of those afflicted with diseases, and endanger their lives. Opportunities of dissection should therefore be afforded to us. The bodies of persons dying in the hospitals abroad are given to the surgeons for dissection, and even with the acqiu-HUNTERIAN ORATION. 3.5 d 2 escence of the public. In other countries it is considered, that those who have been sup- ported by the public, when unable to support themselves, die in its debt, and that their remains may therefore, with justice, be converted to the public use. In England, however, the indigent who , suffer from illness and injury are sup- ported and relieved chiefly by the liberality of that benevolence which is so creditable to our national character; and much as I wish for the promotion of medical knowledge, I should be sorry if the bodies of the poor were to be consi- dered as public property without reserve in our own country. For better would it seem to me, that medical science should cease, and our bodily sufferings continue, than that the natural rights and best feel- ings of humanity should not be equally respected in all classes of society ; or that merely because persons are poor, they should be prevented from paying the last tribute of respect and regard to their de- parted relatives by attending their remains to the grave. Yet if the directors of36 HUNTERIAN ORATION. hospitals, poor-houses, and prisons, were to establish it as a regulation, that the body of any person dying in those institutions, unclaimable by immediate relatives, should be given to the surgeon of the establish- ment for dissection, upon his signing an obligation so to dispose of it, as to give no offence to decency or humanity, I am con- vinced, that it would greatly tend to the increase of anatomical knowledge amongst the members of our profession in general, and consequently to the public good. Or indeed it might be established as a law, that the body of any person of whatsoever rank or fortune, unclaimable by immediate relatives, should be subjected to dissection; and thus a great public good might be ob- tained, without any infringement on the equality of rights. Other and better ex- pedients may indeed be devised ; and the g^jjjjgct is so important as to desei ve geneial consideration. Yet, upon mentioning the foregoing suggestions to various persons, I have been uniformly answered, that the public would37 HUNTERIAN ORATION. never consent to such regulations; for their effect would be, to deny the body the rite of Christian burial. But that the funeral service availeth not to the dead is made manifest, even by that sublime ritual itself, which places before our view the valueless nature of the dead body by the most em-^ phatic language. We therefore commit the body to the ground; earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust. That is to say, con- fident it must, according to the laws of nature, resolve itself into other forms, and become again an undistinguished part of the common constituent matter of the uni- verse. Religion also “ doth teach us for to render the deeds of mercy” and benevo- lence to those that want them, which deeds cannot be properly administered to such as suffer from illness or injury, unless in con- sequence of our obtaining an accurate knowledge of the structure of the human body. There is also another point on which some concession on the part of the public is re- quired for the promotion of medical know- d 338 HUNTERIAN ORATION. ledge. We are sometimes called upon to examine the bodies ot the dead, in hopes of our being able to discover the cause of death for the satisfaction of theii relatives, when such examination affords us no additional knowledge; for we see only the common appearances of disease with which we are familiarly acquainted : and yet we are frequently denied the sameoppoitu- nity when we most earnestly solicit it, from the belief that we shall obtain important in- formation by the investigation. Wishing to exhibit the effect of such refusal by some striking instance, I am tempted to relate an anecdote of Mr. Hunter, even though some may not think it to his credit. Mr. Hunter, who was never afraid of speaking his mind, had attended, in concert with another sur- geon, a fatal case of disease in the child of a gentleman of opulence and worldly con- sequence. Mrr Hunter had been much in- terested by the case: he had considered it, as he was wont to do, deliberately and in- tently ; and believing that much good might result from ascertaining its nature, he had requested permission to examine the body,HUNTERIAN ORATION. 39 d 4 which was refused. He went to the house of the father, in company with the other surgeon, and tried all his art of rhetoric and persuasion, but in vain. When he be- came convinced that his object was unat- tainable, he was standing, said the relator of this anecdote, with his back to the fire, and he put his hands into his pockets. “ I saw,” continued the narrator, “ by his coun- tenance, that a storm was brewing in his mind.” Mr. Hunter, however, gravely and calmly addressed the master of the house in the following manner: “ Then, Sir, you will not permit the examination to be made.”—■ “ It is impossible,” was the absurd reply. “ Then, Sir,” said Mr. Hunter, “ I heartily hope, that yourself, and all your family, nay, all your friends, may die of the same disease, and that no one may be able to afford any assistance;” and so saying, he departed. Such a wish could never, I am convinced, have originated in his benevolent mind; as indeed is manifested by the very terms of it, which involve the innocent with the offending. Temporary irritation alone in- cited him to adopt this mode of expressing his strong conviction of what it becameHUNTERIAN ORATION. TO equally his duty to perform, and theirs to permit, for the attainment of knowledge, the most important to humanity. It is easy to perceive the causes of reluctance in general to such examinations. Persons question if their departed relative would have approved of it; they think it disrespectful, or that some unnecessary or indecent exposure of the body may take place; they suspect that we perform these acts with levity, or in a frame of mind discordant with their present feelings. It is for us to convince them by our manners and conduct, that we only seek for knowledge ; and that we do so with dispositions suitable to the solemnity of the occasion, and in sympathy with their feel- ings, and distress. Having thus told you, gentlemen, what appears to me chiefly necessary to be done, on our part and on that of the public, for the promotion of medical science, I take the liberty of further observing, that to some it might seem strange that persons in general do not take more concern about it, when it is manifestly of vital importance to them. This College, sensible of the great injuryHUNTERIAN ORATION. 41 which the public sustains from the ignorance and fraud of empirics, petitioned parliament to grant it a power of control, by process of law^ over those who set up to practise sur- gery, without having undergone an examin- ation, to testify their education or ability : a power not likely to be exeicised except in cases of flagrant offence; a power also determinable in its degree and effect by im- partial judges, by the judges of the land. To some of the members of the House of Com- mons, however, this petition appeared like an attempt to procure a monopoly of surgical practice, and it was rejected. The College still persevering in its endeavour to prevent a great public evil, and desirous of freeing itself from all imputation of being actuated by interested motives, brought forwards a new bill, entirely of a public nature, which was also rejected; so that, in these trans- actions, the College may be said to have ‘ lost every thing but its honour. The whole history of medical science affords no instance of its promotion by any individual, at all comparable with thatHUNTERIAN ORATION. 42 produced by the man whose natal day we are now met to commemorate. It is in- deed a surprising example of the scarcely to be expected improvement which may be effected by the industry of an indi- vidual when exerted in a right direction, and aided by that intelligence which re- views accumulated facts, compares, dis- criminates, combines, and arranges them ; whilst it also draws cautious inferences * from them, and suggests new subjects of enquiry, and new modes of research. Of the genius, reflection, talents, and industry of John Hunter I have already spoken; but to commemorate him on the present occasion, I will tell you what I observed relative to the peculiar and dis- tinguishing characters of his mind. Surely the lineaments of the mind must be more interesting than the form and features of the body. It is the character and conduct of the former which chiefly excite our interest respecting the latter; and if any one were desirous of knowing what man- ner of man Mr. Hunter was, I could not wish to refer them to a better resemblanceHUNTERIAN ORATION. 43 of him, than that drawn by Sir Joshua Reynolds. Perhaps my knowledge of Mr. Hunter’s character may aid my ima- gination 5 yet when I look on that picture* I feel as if I saw before me an old man, a shrewd man, aye, and a benevolent man too, in the act and attitude of habitual thought. Sir Everard Home, who had great op- portunities of knowing Mr. Hunter, has represented him as an honest, independent, perfectly candid, and most industrious man, indifferent about money, and much attached to science. Now though I be- lieve this sketch to be perfectly correct, yet there were finer traits of character re- quiring to be depicted ere I should re- cognise the intellectual resemblance of O John Hunter. Those who make the study of nature, and of science, or the attain- ment of moral good, the ultimate object of their endeavours, are candid, disin- terested, benevolent, and humble minded. They openly avow their designs, solicit the assistance of others, and assist them in return ; they note the slow degrees by44 HUNTERIAN ORATION. which they advance in knowledge, their frequent failures, and the imperfection of their own powers ; they also compare the aggregate of their advances with the illimitable nature of those objects to which they have merely approximated. Whilst those who make power, wealth, or any species of notoriety, the object of their ambition, are secret, selfish, suspicious, cunning, and conceited. In general, they are ashamed or afraid of avowing; their de- signs, and therefore obliged to enveigle the co-operation of others. They suspect that they may be counteracted; and in proportion as they attain their ends, they feel elated with their own abilities, from the belief that no one but themselves could have atchieved them in the like manner and degree. The choice of our objects manifests the natural dispositions of our minds, which are confirmed and aug- mented in their pursuit. Mr. Hunter was an excellent example of the former class of men. My desire to know why a man of such intellectual powers did not display them in a manner4 5 I-IUNTERIAN ORATION. more advantageous to his reputation first in- duced me to proposeto him questions,merely in order to learn how he would answer them : yet this seeming desire of inform- ation on my part, acting on his benevolent mind, induced him to pay me much more attention than I had been accustomed to receive from others. He invited me to come to his house, to sit and converse with him. I now regret that I profited so little by the opportunities he offered me; but I was at that time ignorant of the value of the information which I might have de- rived from him. That benevolence was a predominant sentiment of Mr. Hunter’s mind may be inferred from his fondness for animals, his aversion to operations, and from the zeal with which he assisted every poor man of merit. Upon men- tioning my conviction on this point to a surgeon who knew him intimately, he re- plied, “ I am sure I have reason to think so, for I was ill, and he kindly and dili- gently attended me: nay, he brought those of his medical friends to visit me in whose judgment he placed most confidence. My illness being, however, tedious, I was atHUNTERIAN ORATION. 46 length obliged to go into the country for the recovery of my health. Mr. Hunter called on me before my departure, and said, 41 have been thinking, that you might want a little money; if so, I can procure you 2001.; though, in general, I am the most unlikely person in this town to have money at command.’ I thanked him,” con- tinued the surgeon, “ but told him, I had been more provident than might perhaps have been expected, therefore I did not want money. On my return to town, and re-establishment in business, which did not take place for a considerable time, I took an opportunity of expressing to Mr. Hunter, my continued sense of gratitude for his kindness in attending me, and for his offer of pecuniary assistance. £ Hah,’ said he, 6 I offer you money ! that is droll, indeed; for I am the last person in this town to have money at command. I have entirely forgotten it. But of this I am assured, that what I offered, I meant to perform.’ ” Now, Gentlemen, I must restrict myself to a single instance in proof of the several propositions that I wish to substantiate.HUNTERIAN ORATION. 4<7 instead of numbers which I could ad- duce. The candour of Mr. Hunter’s character was evident in all his actions. ITe readily told all he knew or thought upon every subject; and was pleased in assisting others to acquire knowledge. It is indeed highly improbable, that a wise and good man should be otherwise than candid. For wisdom teaches him not to form opinions but on sufficient grounds and consider- ation ; and these he would freely reveal, being equally desirous that they should be corrected, if wrong, and acknowledged, if right. Sir Everard Home has said, that Mr. Hunter’s disposition was “ free from reserve, even to a fault; for it sometimes A made him appear harsh.” Yet harshness, I am convinced, could never have pro- ceeded from a mind attuned like that of John Hunter. I do not wish to deny or conceal, that occasionally the candour and susceptibility of his character might incite him to express his vexation and indig- nation with a degree of energy and open- ness that would give offence, and fail toHUNTERIAN ORATION. 48 produce the good resulting from mild remonstrance and explanation. Yet for this occasional want of temper many, and perfectly exculpatory causes may be stated. Mr. Hunter’s life was one of continual exertion, perplexity, and irritation. He was constantly engaged in the search and consideration of new facts. “ My mind,” said he to me, “ is like a bee-hive;” and the simile struck me, on account of its cor- rectness. For, in the midst of buz and apparent confusion, there was great order; regularity of structure ; and abundant food, collected with incessant industry, from the choicest stores of nature. It will be generally admitted, that the want of money would be an adequate cause of perplexity. Yet to Mr. Hunter, the very means by which the necessary supplies were to be procured proved sources of irritation. The search for money led him from the more congenial pursuit of knowledge. It broke into his arrangements ; distracted his attention;49 HUNTERIAN ORATION. and we find him complaining of this, like one who had felt it sorely. Those who far precede others must ne- cessarily remain alone; and their actions often appear unaccountable, nay even extravagant, to their distant followers ; who know not the causes that give rise to them, nor the effects which they are de- signed to produce. In such a situation stood Mr. Hunter with relation to his con- temporaries. It was a comfortless pre- cedence, for it deprived him of sympathy and social co-operation; and he felt that his labours and merits were not known, or fairly estimated. None of these causes of irritation, how- ever, in general disturbed the patience and good-humour of John Hunter, who found ample consolation, in thinking of what he had already done, and might still do, for the attainment of knowledge, the most important to humanity. That Mr. Hunter had a very susceptible mind can scarcely be doubted. Sir Everard E50 HUNTERIAN ORATION. Home informs us, that he would weep at the recital of a generous action ; and when shame cannot prevent us from doing this, neither will fear deter us from expressing our indignation at one of an opposite nature. We are apt to misjudge one another. Few have the'penetration of Sterne, and are capable of discerning how circum- stances, trivial in themselves, by links of con- nection with the finer feelings of the mind, may produce the extremes of pain or plea- sure. Mr. Hunter had befriended and pro- fessionally attended the family of a poor man of much talent as a painter. He afterwards requested him to paint the head of an animal. When the portrait came home, Mr. Hunter was delighted with it; but when he found it was accompanied with a bill to a much greater amount than would have been charged by any other artist, he was highly incensed. Can it be supposed, that it was the necessity foi paying so much money, that made Mr. Hunter angry ? No; it was ingratitude, which worse than the viper s tang had wounded him, and produced this paroxysm of irritation.HUNTERIAN ORATION. .51 * e 2 As a contrast, however, to that occasional want of temper which some may consider as a fault in the character of Mr. Hunter, I may mention that his habits of investiga- tion, and his slowness in communicating his own opinions, had given him an admir- able degree of patience and perseverance in accomplishing whatever he undertook, and this was conspicuous even in the common practice of his profession. In one of the cases which he has published, he says, •— “ After about an hour’s conversation with the patient, I made out a few simple facts.” If pressed for time, he was often known to say, “ I cannot tell at present what to re- commend : I must think of it.” For to Mr. Hunter almost every case was a study, and so indeed it must be to all those who practise their profession as a science. I will here relate one out of many instances that I could adduce of the pains which he took, from benevolent motives, to convince persons of what seemed to him essential to their welfare. A strong ruddy-faced farmer had a disease, which induced Mr. Hunter to enjoin a total abstinence from fermented liquors. “ Sir,” said the farmer, “ I assure52 HUNTERIAN ORATION. you that I am a very temperate man ; I scarcely ever exceed three pints of ale in the day, and I never touch spirits.” “ But,” said Mr. Hunter, “ you must now drink nothing except water.” “ Sir,” said the farmer, “ that is impossible, for I cannot relinquish my employment; and you know, Sir, it is impossible to work without some support.” Mr. Hunter perceiving that his patient was not likely to be readily con- vinced, enquired how many acres of land he cultivated, and what number of them was arable? He next asked, how many horses were kept upon the farm ? and then boldly asserted, that they were too few in number for the quantity of land. The farmer maintained that they were sufficient, but was at length brought to confess, that they were worked , hard. Allow me then, said Mr. Hunter, to enquire what it is that you give them to drink ? \ ou see, gentlemen, that John Hunter, like Socrates, was well aware of the advantage of that mode of conducting an argument, by which the disputant is made to convince himself: though, I dare say, that he had never heard of its being employed by that philosophei. I have heard many patients speak of Mr.HUNTERIAN ORATION. Hunter, and none without a fond remem- brance of his kindness and attention. 1 have indeed been told, even by them, that he was sometimes in a passion when he was vexed; which, I think, ought to have been excused, as it was the natural and almost inevitable consequence of the best dispositions of the human mind. This short-lived turbulence should, indeed, be treated with pity and indulgence, when it is the legitimate offspring of sensibility and integrity.* That Mr. Hunter was an humble-minded man, may be inferred from the caution and diffidence which is a striking cha- racteristic of all his scientific investiga- tions. He has, doubtless, suppressed the communication of facts and experi- ments, manifesting a degree of labour and intelligence sufficient to give reputation to persons of ordinary character. Though he endeavoured to investigate the nature of diseases in order to understand their treat- ment; yet he never deviated from esta- * An honest warmth, child of integrity. Shakspeare. E 3HUNTERIAN ORATION. 64< Wished rules of practice without cogent reasons for his conduct. This I mention from being aware, that if we presume on our knowledge of the nature and treatment of diseases, we may, like the ancient dog- matists, do mischief. Mr. Hunter’s con- stant saying was, “ we are but beginning to learn our profession.” That he was con- scious of the importance of his investiga- tions, that he saw by anticipation the good effects that might result from them, cannot be doubted ; yet I have heard him declare, and I know he was accustomed to say, that he was not conscious of possessing any peculiar talent, and that if he had promoted professional knowledge, it seemed to him chiefly to have arisen from his disposition to distrust opinions and to examine every subject for himself. Mr. Hunter was, moreover, a man of very considerable humour. His views of subjects in general were quick and peculiar, and when so disposed he could place them in very ludicrous points of view. I have known him to exert his talents in this way in a very entertaining manner ; but though I could produce abundant proofs of my presentHUNTERIAN ORATION. 55 proposition, they would be unsuitable to the gravity proper to be maintained on this occasion. I have heard some express their wonder that very sensible men have some- times condescended to appear foolish ; yet it ought not to excite surprise, for it only shows the activity of their minds which oc- casionally relieve themselves from the uni- formity of thoughtful exertion by sportive and irregular actions. They find it “ dulce desipere,” and have no fear, as others might have, to indulge themselves in this pro- pensity. Thus strong and healthy people, after the labour of the day, deriVe re- creation from the continued efforts of a lively dance, or some agile sport. There is, however, one subject evin- cing Mr. Hunter’s possession of the kind of talents 1 am now alluding to, to which I may advert on the present occa- sion, because it is connected with our professional concerns. Yet here also I must restrict myself to one instance se- lected from a considerable number, and I doubt if it be the best for my pur- pose. Mr. Hunter’s sagacity led him e 45() HUNTERIAN ORATION. speedily to discover and detect those im- positions which some persons are induced to practise on us. A patient in the hos- pital feigned to be afflicted with catalepsy, in which disorder, it is said, a person loses all consciousness and volition, yet remains in the very attitude in which they were suddenly seized with this temporary sus- pension of the intellectual functions. Mr. Hunter began to comment before the sur- rounding students on the strangeness of the latter circumstance, and as the man stood with his hand a little extended and ele- vated, he said, you see, gentlemen, that the hand is supported, merely in conse- quence of the muscles persevering in that action to which volition had excited them prior to the cataleptic seizure. I wonder, continued he, what additional weight they would support, and so saying, he slipped the noose of a cord round the wrist, and hung to the other end a small weight, which produced no alteration in the posi- tion of the hand. Then, after a short time, with a pair of scissors he imperceptibly snipped the cord. The weight fell to the ground, and the hand was as suddenly raised in the air by the increased effort57 HUNTERIAN ORATION. which volition had excited for the support of the additional weight. Thus was it ma- nifested that the man possessed both con- sciousness and volition, and the impostor stood revealed. Having thus told you, gentlemen, what appeared to me as distinguishing traits in the character of the man whom I have already eulogized for having made surgery a science; for having the penetration to discern the direct path of knowledge, and the talents and industry to remove all the obstacles which concealed or impeded its entrance; for having conducted us to a certain extent so prosperously, that it must be our own fault indeed if we do not ad- vance to more perfect discoveries of still obscure and remote objects : — I may then conclude, that so long as surgeons feel an interest in the improvement and re- putation of their profession, or a value for their own character as men of science, so long will the name of John Hunter be remembered by them with gratitude and respect: or in Virgil’s beautiful and often quoted language I may say, Semper honos, nomenque suum laudesque manebunt.POSTSCRIPT. This Oration comprehends the remainder of what I was desirous of saying with re- spect to the labours, opinions, and cha- racter of Mr. Hunter. It has been printed in this form, that it may be bound up with my lectures at the College, which are de- signed to exhibit Mr. Hunter’s opinions of life and its functions in the states of health and disease. Yet, as my conduct in this publication has been lately aspersed by Mr. Lawrence, in a point which I should be always most eager to defend, though, I trust, it is one of the least vulnerable parts of my character, that of honesty and fair dealing ; I feel under the necessity of add- ing a few words, and, for the first time in my life, of speaking of him, before the Public, in other terms than those of com- mendation. As an introduction to his lectures, just published, he has placed what he has chosen to call an answer to some charges which, he says, I have made against him. But as neither my own, nor Mr.59 POSTSCRIPT. Lawrence’s meaning or feelings can be un- derstood by others without previous in- formation, I must therefore mention, that from a very early • period of his pio- fessional studies, he was accustomed to decry and scoff at what I taught as the opinions of Mr. Hunter respecting life and its functions. Yet as I could never find that he had any good reasons for this conduct, I continued to teach them in the midst of the controversy and derision of those students who had become his proselytes. As a teacher of young men I felt particularly anxious that they should possess just, bene- volent, and honourable sentiments, and therefore was I interested in maintaining those opinions respecting life, which seem to warrant the further opinion of the dis- tinct and independent nature of mind; whilst more particularly did I feel bound to maintain them, when the contrary asser- tions were unsupported by facts or argu- ments. * O. * I have admitted the assertion that the brain is as much an organ of sensation and thought, as the liver and stomach are organs for the secretion of bile and gastric fluid: but the physiological question in disputePOSTSCRIPT. 60 When I had the honour of* being pointed Professor of Anatomy and Surgery JS, how do these organs accomplish their respective functions? The opinion that the functions of life are the result of subtile principles commixed with the visible fabric of living beings, will, I believe, be soon generally admitted; and I contend that the liver and stomach prepaie theii lespcctive fluids in consequence of their vital principles, and not merely as a result of their or- ganization. \et I cannot suppose that the brain pro- duces our sensations and thoughts in the same manner. Indeed, it is impossible to suppose, as a poetical writer has humorously suggested with regard to Milton, That he from the glands of his brain Secreted his Paradise Lost. Also, from the equal absurdity of supposing that the soft medullary fibres of the brain feel and think, the common sense of mankind will for ever revolt. As we cannot either suppose sensation to result from any motion or arrangement of insensible atoms, as we have reason to believe that all the vital processes are carried on in many instances without sensation, and that when it is added that its district is limited to the brain, so we seem compelled to admit that life influences, through the means of its actions and organization, something having the properties of perception, &c. is acted on by it in return. As Mr. Lawrence’s late publication contains but a repe- tition of assertions which I have in general objected to, as he continues to harp upon words without attending to thoughts, and without even seeming to have noticed what I have said with relation to the subjects under discus- sion, I have nothing further to add to the foregoing lectures, except upon one point on which he has a littleGL POSTSCRIPT. to the Royal College ol Surgeons, I began my lectures, for reasons which 1 have lully enlarged. He maintains the assertion that the mind, like the body, is imbecile in youth as well as decrepit in age. Now that the processes and evidences of mind should be enfeebled and disturbed by corresponding states of the nervous system would be naturally expected ; but that, under other circumstances, any evident differ- ence in the intellectual functions is observable, is an assertion which will, I believe, on examination, be found to be incorrect. Children are highly susceptible and prone to con- tinual action. They are vividly affected by every im- pression, most of which also produce on them an effect which novelty gives to subjects even in adult life. Youth is the season for acquiring knowledge: reflection would but retard its attainment, and would be unavailing from deficiency of facts and experience. That the mind is often wayward and irrational in youth as well as in age, is apparent; but that it exhibits as powerful intellect when excited and when it possesses adequate means for its exertion in childhood, as at any period of life, must, I believe, be acknowledged on a full examination of the subject; which has been admirably displayed by the writings of Miss Edgeworth. That children also pos- sess the more energetic qualities of mind, those which chiefly characterize its distinct and superior nature, in as great a degree as at any period of life, will not, I think, be denied by any who/has carefully attended to then conduct. \et surgeons possess particular oppor- tunities ol making such remarks, and the communica- tion of instances, which are not to them very uncommon, may be useful in the general consideration of this sub-62 POSTSCRIPT. explained in them, with an account of what I believed were Mr. Hunter’s opinions re- specting life; and to me, it would have seemed wise in the opposite party to have suffered these lectures gradually to have sunk ject. When I first attended St. Bartholomew’s Hospi- tal, one of the old surgeons was a most benevolent man, whom all the patients loved. There was a little boy of five years old, whom this surgeon was to cut for the stone. The boy complained loudly, and struggled much, during the introduction of an instrument, which was but a preparatory step to the operation. The old man patted the child on the cheek and said, “ You know, my good little boy, that I would not hurt you if I could help it.” — “I know it, Sir,” said the child, “ and l will cry no more.” He underwent a severe and tedious operation. His teeth weie clinched, his lips were work- ing, yet no sound was heard. — A few weeks ago, an emaciated and very sickly child of seven years old w'as sent into the hospital' to have a diseased knee removed. The case was indeed hopeless. When the little patient had become familiar with his new abode and attendants, and certain circumstances known with respect to his health which it was proper should be ascertained, I said to the child, for I knew not whether he had been ap- prized of his doom, “ I suppose, my little fellow, that you would not mind having this knee removed, which has pained you so much, and made you so very ill.” — “ Oh, no,” replied he, “ for mammy has told me that 1 ought.” At the time of the operation he manifested neither hesitation nor opposition, nor did the voice ol complaint issue from his lips. 6POSTSCRIPT. 68 into oblivion. On the contrary, however, the opinions which I had promulgated were said to be absurd and untenable, and even ridiculed by a writer in the Edinburgh Re- view. When, afterwards, Mr. Lawrence be- gan to lecture at the College, he adopted the same line of conduct; nor were his hostile and taunting expressions confined, as he says, to his first lectures. The theme of his exult- ation and raillery was introduced to enliven many others. In the published lectures will be found a varnished character of my- self, in which, however, I clearly distin- guish one truth, that of having always acted as his zealous friend ; and surely the recol- lection of such conduct would have induced a generous mind to have glossed over also what it might have considered as my de- fects. When I heard those lectures, I told Mr. Lawrence, (for I had always spoken my sentiments to him with candor,) that he seemed to me to have done a very foolish thing in attacking my opinions in a place where I felt obliged to defend them; and added, even the consideration of the im- propriety of two professors in the same establishment differing with one another,POSTSCRIPT. 64 ought to have restrained him. In my next lectures, which were designed more fully to explain Mr. Hunter’s opinions, by showing the manner in which he had deduced them from the consideration of all the vital pro- cesses, I carefully concealed Mr. Lawrence from public view, by arguing against a party, by contending against opinions and not against persons: nor did 1 ever men- tion his name or words but in order to in- duce others to suppose that we did not differ in sentiments. The sentence to which I allude ran thus : “ Comparative anatomy, also, as my brother Professor very judi- ciously observed in his introductory lec- tures, furnishes abundant arguments to the natural theologian, by the evidences it af- fords of design, and of the adaptation of means to ends.” When, however, I per- ceived that he was hurt by these lectures, I assured him that I did not mean personally to allude to him, and after consideration added, neither could I conceive how he could suppose that I did, unless ’ndeed oy identi- fying himself with those writers from whose works he had copied. I offered also to expunge the sentence above quoted.POSTSCRIPT. 65 replied, “ No; I do not object to it: you may do as you please.” I therefore inserted the words without naming the authoi. Is it then generous in Mr. Lawrence to say, “ that the quotation of his own words ren- dered it impossible for him to shield him- self under the pretext of uncertainty, or to suggest that my lectures (which weie ex- cited as an act of self-defence) were meant chiefly as an attack upon his conduct and character ? Is it becoming in Mr. Lawrence to hold me forth to public view as one blinded by national prejudice to the merits of persons of other countries ? On the contrary, I consider all mankind as bre- thren, yet all brothers have not the same sentiments and dispositions. The sons of science may more particularly be regarded as of one family, and their residence in dif- ferent countries cannot annul their frater- nity. Yet surely it is allowable in me to suppose that the notions of our brother physiologists in France may have been in- fluenced by the state of public opinion in that country. I am aware that what I have termed modern scepticism arose in a great degree from good feelings j from an abhor- F66 POSTSCRIPT. rence of the dreadful consequences ol su- perstition and bigotry, and of those ol tyrannical restriction and oppression. Yet in recoiling from one kind of error, the party seem to me to have run into an opposite one, and to have equally deviated from the mid-way path, which is trodden only by the unprejudiced and considerate. With re- spect to the subject of nationality, however, I wish to submit a sentence, which 1 re- member to have heard in Mr. Coleridge s lectures, to Mr. Lawrence’s consideration. There can be no sincere cosmopolitan, who is not also a patriot. Is it becoming likewise in Mr. Lawrence to point out what he considers as the weak parts of my lectures to general observation ? Fortunately for me, indeed, he is not to be my judge ; for he is strongly prejudiced, and evidently angry : the mem- bers of our profession in general are to de- termine the value of my humble endea\ ours t*o promote our professional knowledge and . character, and in their decision I am ready respectfully to acquiesce. THE E^D.0 £ gs *\ 1 fe i