LIVER, DISEASES OF 445 rhosis has been applied to cases where advanced chronic venous congestion and tuberculosis of the liver are combined. These cases, which are chiefly met with in children, are associated with more advanced tuberculous disease elsewhere, especially in the peritoneum and pleura. These conditions of hepatic pseudo-cirrhosis and cardio- tuberculous cirrhosis are closely allied both to nutmeg liver and to the cases of general peri- hepatitis secondary to adherent pericardium. Clinically, the chief diiference from nutmeg liver is the absence of any signs of cardiac valvular disease. The treatment, however, is that of chronic venous engorgement of the liver, viz., cardiac tonics and diuretics. The treatment suitable for cirrhosis is of no use in these conditions. Infarcts in the Liver Infarction of the liver is rare ; but appearances resembling infarcts in other organs undoubtedly occur, and are probably less infrequent than is thought. Lazarus-Barlow has collected 32 examples—of these 28 were hsemorrhagic and 4 anaemic. They resemble pulmonary apoplexies, and differ from infarcts in other organs in several ways. Thus in both the lung and liver there is a double blood-supply—the bronchial and pulmonary arteries, and the hepatic artery and portal vein respectively; like pulmonary apoplexies, hepatic infarcts are usually hsemor- rhagic, do not show coagulation necrosis, or pro- ject above the surface when recent, and are not succeeded by depressed cicatrices, thus con- trasting with the typical infarcts in the spleen and kidneys, which are possessed of end arteries. For these reasons it might be convenient to speak of these appearances in the liver as " pseudo-infarcts," inasmuch as they are not in the strict sense of the term infarcted (stuffed or swollen). Infarcts in the liver have been met with most often in association with portal thrombosis or embolism of the branches of the portal vein. Obstruction of the intrahepatic branches of the portal vein by new growth, and embolism or thrombosis of small intrahepatic branches of the portal vein, may also appear to be a cause ; while combined portal and hepatic vein throm- bosis (Pitt), embolism of the hepatic artery (Ogle, Chiari), severe traumatism, and retro- grade embolism of the hepatic veins, have been found in isolated instances. Infarcts of the liver have been described in Cirrhosis and in Nutmeg Liver (Bonome). None of these con- ditions, however, are essential to or necessarily followed by infarction of the liver; some other factor, possibly a toxsemic state, is requisite for the formation of the infarction. The hsemorrhagic infarcts resemble naevi to the naked eye, and are not raised above the surface of the organ. The capillaries are dilated and the liver-cells atrophied, but not necrosed or involved in the process of coagulation necrosis seen in infarcts elsewhere. The anaemic infarcts resemble, only they are more sharply defined, the anaemic patches often seen in the liver in infectious disease. The capillaries are empty. Infarction of the liver has no clinical aspects, and is only of pathological interest. Biliary Cirrhosis 1. Hypertrophic Biliary Cirrhosis . 445 2. Obstructive Biliary Cirrhosis . . 450 This condition may conveniently be con- sidered under two distinct heads :— (1) Hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis. (2) obstructive biliary cirrhosis. Hypertrophic Biliary Cirrhosis Synonyms : Hypertrophic Cirrhosis with Chronic Jaundice, Hanot's Disease, Biliary Cirrhosis proper. It is sometimes spoken of as hypertrophic cirrhosis. This is to be avoided, since it is likely to lead to confusion as there are several other kinds of large cirrhotic livers ; in common or portal cirrhosis the organ is often much en- larged, a fatty cirrhotic liver is of very consider- able size, and the pigmented cirrhotic liver in haemochromatosis is also entitled to the adjective hypertrophic. Definition.—The disease is characterised by chronic jaundice, fever, absence of ascites, en- largement of the liver and of the spleen; it usually occurs in young persons. There is no gross obstruction to the larger bile ducts; histologically the cirrhosis is more monolobular than in ordinary portal cirrhosis. History.—Although the condition was recog- nised by Requin in 1846, by Todd eleven years later (1857), and by Hayem (1874), it did not attract any attention until Hanot (1875) sharply struck out the disease in his thesis on Hyper- trophic Cirrhosis ivith Chronic Jaundice. In 1893 Kiener suggested that the disease should be called Hanot's disease. Somewhat different forms of hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis have been described of late years in France, by Hayem, and by Gilbert and Fournier, and Gilbert and Castaigne, and discussion has arisen as to the channel by which the cause of the disease reaches the liver. Of late years the opinion has been growing that the description given by Hanot was too crystallised, and that few cases conformed to the rigid type he erected. It must, however, be admitted that there is a very distinct difference between common cirrhosis and the condition to be described as hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis. Transitional forms between them are met with just as there are between the arteriosclerotic kidney and that of chronic