KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF 134 the articular surfaces are seriously implicated, recovery with mobility is most unlikely; on the other hand, the occurrence of rigid and preferably osseous ankylosis affords the best prospect of permanent cure. Inasmuch, how- ever, as this result can only be attained under expectant conditions, with considerable loss of time, there is great inducement to securing this result more rapidly and with greater certainty by means of an operation which will at the same time remove the disease. Most of the deformed and shortened limbs from knee- joint disease to be seen on our streets are capable of prevention. As regards the prognosis to life we may cite the statistics of Konig. Out of 615 cases observed at the Gottingen clinique over a period of eighteen years, no less than 205 succumbed (33;^ per cent) chiefly from tuber- culosis of the lungs and other internal organs. Treatment of Tuherculous Disease of the Knee. —As in other joints, this may be discussed under the headings of conservative and opera- tive. Conservative measures are specially ap- plicable in children, and that for several reasons: in them spontaneous recovery is much more likely to take place than in adults; time is of secondary importance, because there is no question of their having to earn a living; excision, which in the case of the adult restores a usable limb with great certainty, is to be avoided in children, because it may lead to interference with growth; and, finally, the alternative operation, arthrectomy, is vinreliable as to the functional results obtained. On the other hand, adults, and especially breadwinners, cannot be expected to wait two or three years for a problematical spontaneous recovery when one can promise an ahnost certain cure within a definite time by means of excision. It cannot be too strongly insisted upon that it is not only waste of time but a source of danger to the patient to pei'sist with conservative measures in cases in which spontaneous recovery is im- possible or imlikely. Konig's statistics, which cover a period of eighteen years, bring out the remarkable fact that a larger proportion of patients finally succiimbed among those sub- mitted throughout to expectant treatment, than among those in which the disease was I'emoved by operation. Conservative Measures.—These are to be em- ployed in the first instance, unless, as already stated, the condition of the patient or of his joint is such as renders the prospect of spon- taneous recovery with a useful limb unlikely or impossible, and with this reserve, that if the disease does not yield, we must not hesitate to have recourse to operation. (a) The Joint must he jnd at Rest in the Extended Position. — The patient should be confined to bed during the initial period of treatment. If the joint is flexed and sensitive it should be supported on a pillow, and extension by the weight and pulley is applied to the leg until the limb is straight. Genu valgum deformity is more difficult to get rid of than flexion; if it does not yield to extension, the bones should be forcibly brought into line with one another luider an anjesthetic. Once the limb is straight, it must be kept so by suitable apparatus, e.g. a trough of Gooch (known as Watson's splint), a glitter of wire or basket work with a foot-piece, lateral poroplastic splints secured with an elastic webbing bandage, or plaster-of-Paris. The external application of iodine, mercurial ointment, or of fly blisters does not appear to have any curative influence. If the disease readily yields to treatment by rest alone the patient may be allowed to leave his bed, but the fixation of the joint and the extended position of the limb must be main- tained by a Thomas or other suitable splint for a period of at least twelve months. The splint is removed at intervals for hydrotherapy, massage, and electricity of the atrophied muscles and passive movements of the ankle. Before the splint is discarded altogether, it may be left off during the night; it is ultimately replaced by an elastic bandage. {b) Venous Congestion by Bier^s Method.— This method of treatment is variously appreci- ated by different observers, and is still sub judice. Some cases appear to improve under it more rapidly than with rest alone; it may therefore be combined with the latter, i.e. either while in bed or going about with a Thomas splint; if there is no decided improvement in a fortnight it should be abandoned. (c) Injection of Iodoform Glycerine. — The details of this method have been described in the general article on Joints. So far as the knee is concerned it is most easily introduced and most efficient in cases of hydrops. In the more common synovial fungus or white swelling the injection is more difficidt, more painful, and requires to be repeated more frequently and at shorter intervals (ten days to three weeks). The value of iodoform injection, as of venous congestion, is variousl}^ estimated by different observers; by some it is accepted as a method of treatment which has very largely done away with the necessity for operation, by others it is regarded as capable of bringing about an im- provement which is only temporary. Our own experience is decidedly encouraging. {d) The treatment of abscess is conveniently included with the conservative methods. One of the objects of keeping a patient with tuber- culous joint disease under observation is that of recognising an abscess at the earliest possible moment. When discovered it should be treated by the iodoform-glycerine method, as already described in the article on Joints {'/.v.). If the abscess does not yield to the iodoform treat- ment it should be cleared out by operation;