316 LARDACEOUS DEGENERATION or malaria. It can be produced experimentally in animals by inducing and maintaining suppura- tion by means of cultures of the Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. Some observers have stated that the same result follows on suppuration produced by the Bacillus pyocyaneus, or even by turpentine ; but these results have not been confirmed. Chemical Nature.—Amyloid substance pre- sents a marked resistance to the action of the gastric juice ; by the action of this ferment it may be obtained practically pure. It has been shown by Krawkow to consist of an organic acid (chondroitin-sulj)huric acid) combined with some form of albumen. This latter portion of the compound is probably not constant in composi- tion, and it is possible thus to account for the varying behaviour of different specimens in respect of staining. Amyloid substance is very closely allied to " hyaline," which is considered by some authorities to be either identical with it, or, at least, its forerunner. A substance giving the same reactions as amyloid is found in the coats of the aorta and arteries under normal conditions, so that the pathological pro- duct appears to have a physiological prototype. Pathology. — Since amyloid degeneration secondary to suppuration is limited almost entirely to cases presenting ill-drained cavities and sinuses, it seems probable that it is the result of the absorption of some poisonoiis pro- duct formed by the bacteria to which the suppuration is due. This theory is confirmed by the results of the experiments on animals quoted above. Possibly the toxin injuriously affects the metabolism of the cells—the digestion by the cells of the circulating albumens of the lymphs—and thus are formed unusual deriva- tions of albumen, which are deposited in or around the cells. Authorities appear to incline towards calling amyloid change an " infiltration " rather than a " degeneration " proper, but it is doubtful whether any rigid distinction between these two processes is maintainable. Some recent observers have endeavoured to trace a connection between amyloid substance and hae- moglobin. Thus Petrone attributes the degen- eration to soaking of the tissues with dissolved blood-pigment, many corpuscles being broken up in the course of wasting diseases such as syphilis, tuberculosis, or chronic suppuration ; while Obrzut considers that the masses of amy- loid occurring in the spleen are composed of conglomerated hajmocytes which have undei'gone a peculiar transformation. It seems difficult, on either of these hypotheses, to account for the great swelling of the affected organs and the amount of pressure apparently exercised by the new product upon the surrounding cells. Morbid Anatomy Amyloid Liver.—The liver is much enlarged and may fill the greater part of the abdominal cavity. It is pale in colour, and the surface is smooth and regular, the normal shape of the organ being preserved. The specific gravity of the tissue is increased, and it is firm and re- sistant in consistency. On section, little blood is found in the organ; the cut surface is smooth and glistening, of a greyish-red or dirty yellow colour. In early stages the outlines of the individual lobules may be distinguishable, but later on all trace of structure is lost. If a portion is stained with iodine a very character- istic appearance is produced, each lobule being marked out as a thick, dark brown ring, with a pale centre, separated by pale substance from neighbouring rings. This appearance is due to the fact that the amyloid change occurs princi- pally in the middle zone of each lobule, in the area of distribution of the hepatic artery. The periphery of the lobule is the seat of fatty degeneration. Amyloid Spleen.—Two varieties of the de- generation in this organ are distinguished :—(1) The change may be limited to the Malpighian corpuscles, which present the appearance of grains of boiled sago set in the substance of the organ, from which the condition is known as sago spleen. (2) The connective tissue forming the trabeculse may be affected throughout, the cells also appearing to inidergo degeneration, while the Malpighian corpuscles escape. This is known as the diffused form. A mixed form is also described, in which both of the above changes occur simultaneously. The organ is enlarged, pale, firm, and heavy, the greatest enlargement occurring in the diffuse and mixed varieties. Alimentary Canal.—Here the change appears late, and never occurs without the simultaneous afiection of other organs. The intestine is little altered in appearance to the naked eye, but may look unduly pale and translucent, and feel thickened and rigid. On pouring a solution of iodine on to the mucous surface, the whole appears stippled with closely-set brown dots, which correspond to the villi, the central arteries of which are the main seat of the change. Owing to increased rigidity thus pro- duced the villi are liable to be broken off, and ulcers may be formed. Very intractable diarrhoea results from this degeneration, owing probably to exudation of increased quantity of serous fluid through the degenerated vessels. Absorption may also be interfered with, and nutrition correspondingly impaired. If the stomach is the seat of amyloid disease, obstinate vomiting may be the result. Amyloid Kidney.—The appearance of the kidney when subject to amyloid change varies with the extent of the lesion and with the amount of the inflammatory process which often accompanies it. In the earliest stage the kidney may look practically normal, and only reveal on treatment with iodine a few scattered brown