206 LABOUR IN MULTIPLE PREGNANCY Infantile Risks.—It has long been recognised that labour in multiple pregnancy is specially unfavourable to the children, but more detailed information on certain points than is generally supplied by writers is necessary to decide the question of the proper rules of treatment. Here the Dublin data are of great value. 1. Length of Interval between the Births. —In 262 cases the interval was stated. Of these the second child was born within fifteen minutes in 46'5 per cent; in the second quarter of an hour, 30'2 per cent—giving 76-7 per cent in the first half hour. In the second half hour 9'9 per cent, and from one to twenty hours in 13"3 per cent. 2. The Mortality in Relation to the Interval. —Of those born within the first half hour, 1 in 20 was still-born; of those in the second half hour, 1 in 5 ; over one hour, 1 in 3'5 ; thus bringing out the important fact that the mor- tality of the second half hour was four times greater than that of the first half hour. 3. Influence of the Presentation on the Mor- tality.—In the FIRST BORN of twins the mortality of head presentations was higher, that of hreech and footling distinctly less than in the same presentations in single births. In the SECOND born, head presentations were nearly twice as fatal as in the first child—11 per cent, as compared with 6 per cent. In hreech presentations 2-5 per cent only were lost. Of the children that lay transverse, and were, con- sequently, turned, and of those that originally presented by the feet (132 in number), all were born alive. The result may be stated in another form. Of the still births, 90 ••5 per cent presented by the head, 9 '5 by the breech; whilst among the footling and those tlmt were turned, there was not a child lost that was alive when the treatment began. 4. Toted Infant Mortality. — Exclusive of non-viable and macerated children, the infant mortality in twiji cases was 7'3 per cent, as compared with 2"7 per cent in si7igle births. Of the first children 6 "8 per cent were still- born, of the second 7 "8 per cent. Prematurity and feebler development may account for part of this high mortality, but it does not explain the higher rate of the second born as compared with the first; nor the anomalous results regarding presentation, how the more frequent occurrence of "abnormal presentations" tends to diminish instead of increase the mortality. Management of the Labour.—The above- noted facts show the increased need of super- vision, and the direction in which skilled assistance may with advantage be extended. The presence of a second child is, in general, unknown till after the birth of the first. Up to this point the management is the same as in ordinary labour; but, thereafter, so anomalous are the conditions and imminent the dangers. that one can no more rely implicitly on the natural powers for the safe delivery of the child, than in ordinary labour we trust to nature alone to expel the placenta. There is the same need of supervision, the like dangers in the one case as in the other. Instead of waiting half an hour, as text-books still recom- mend, before rupturing the membranes, the delivery of the child should be completed within that time. After the first child is born, the unusual size of the uterus gives indication of the presence of a second. The necessary attention having been paid to the first born, and without any intimation to the patient of the state of affairs, a vaginal examination should be made to complete the diagnosis and ascertain the relationship of the foetus to the uterus. The amniotic sac of the second child may be found ruptured, but usiially it is still entire. Dilata- tion being already complete, the function of the bag of waters is gone, and nothing is to be gained by waiting for spontaneous rupture. Without withdrawing the examining hand, or waiting for a pain, the membranes should be broken, and, still holding back the waters, the necessary steps taken to secure command of the delivery. If the child lies transverse, it must be turned; if the breech presents, it is an advantage to bring down one leg; if it is a head presentation, two courses are open—either to leave it to the natural powers, and trust to the forceps should delay occur, which is very apt to happen, or the child may be turned and brought by the feet. In view of the unfavour- able results given above, where delivery was left to nature because of the presumed safety of head presentations, and, on the other hand, the wholly favourable termination when brought by the feet, there can be no doubt that version is the better course. Under the conditions it is easy to perform, and safer to both mother and child. Having got command of the delivery there is now no need of precipitate action. With the left hand steadily on guard over the fundus, intermitting traction can be made and the child cautiously withdrawn, even in the absence of uterine contractions, and this without fear of predisposing to haemorrhage, for retraction is still active though contraction be absent. From what has been said above regarding the thi7-d stage of labour in twin cases and the increased risk of hfemorrhage, special attention at this time is necessary, but the principles of treatment are the same as in ordinary confine- ments. Greater difficulty and, consequently, longer time may be required to complete the process of separation and expulsion. In the absence of htemorrhage this may, within normal limits, be safely allowed. There is more danger in precipitating this stage than in facilitating the delivery of the second child. At the same