175 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM nate in the proportion of about 9 to 3 in vertex presentations, whereas in face presentations the proportion is only 4 to 3. This shows that with the nterns in the ixsual incHnation to the right there is a greater tendency for the head to be flexed in left dorsal positions than in those where the occiput is to the right; and a greater tend- ency for it to become extended (face presentation) in right dorsal positions than in left (Fig. 22). Fig. 22.—Effect of obliquity of uterine axis on head at brim. O, occipital; F, frontal end. Still, the question of flexion or extension has in normal cases been decided before the head engages, and engagement in practically all cases precedes the establishment of foetal-axis- pressure. But when the liquor amnii has drained away sufficiently to allow the axis- pressure to act, there appears an additional factor in retaining and possibly increasing the flexion of the head; for now the axis-pres- sure acts through the spinal column on the base of the skull at the condyles. A line continuing the direc- tion of this pressure through the condyles to the level of the centre in bulk of the head, falls when the head is only a very little flexed some- where between the centre of the head and its posterior end (Fig. 23). The occ^ut is thus further driven down; the occipital end of the head under the circumstances is, therefore, the first part of the head to encounter the resist- ance of the pelvic floor, and to be influenced by its slope. If a vaginal examination is made after the biparietal diameter has passed the brim, and before the head has come into relation with the pelvic floor, the first part touched is a point somewhere near the posterior upper angle of Fig. 23.—Foetal-axis-pressure on slightly flexed head. the right parietal bone. The sagittal suture is further back in the pelvis, and appears to lie close to the sacrum; the biparietal diameter is therefore oblique as regards the plane of the outlet of the pelvis, which is practically a plane at right angles to the axis of the vaginal canal. Naegele observed this obliquity, and came to the conclusion that the biparietal diameter passed the plane of the brim with the sagittal suture nearer to the sacrum than to the pubes ; and he described this as the relation of the head to the brim in normal labour. It is, however, not so, for the head passes the brim with its biparietal diameter lying in the plane of the brim. The explanation is that the head continues to lie in the same relation to the plane of the brim for some little distance after it has passed through the brim, and must therefore lie obliquely to the plane of the outlet (to which plane the results of a vaginal examina- tion are referred), and this is nearly at a right angle with the plane of the brim. The obliquity of Naegele is an important part of the mechanism of labour in certain forms of contracted pelvis. It is known also as Anterior Parietal Obliquity. Internal Rotation.—Owing to the shape of the pelvis, whose widest diameter in the cavity is the oblique (5 inches), the suboccipito-frontal diameter of the head (4^ inches) turns into the oblique, in which it already approximately lies. This movement of rotation on the axis of the foetus is performed in the main by the head alone, though the shoulders take a certain share in it. Rotation in the pelvis is called internal ROTATION to distinguish it from a rotation of the head, which occurs after this part has escaped from the vulva, and is no longer iinder the influence of the maternal parts. The head, descending a little lower, brings its occipital end into contact with the left half of the pelvic floor. This slopes inwards and downwards, and the occipital end of the head glides along its surface inwards and downwards to the anterior edge of the pelvic floor, thus finding its way under the pubic arch, in the middle line almost. The occiput by this move- ment along the pelvic floor carries on the rotation already begun till the suboccipito- frontal diameter is in the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet. This, it will be re- membered, is the widest diameter (5 inches) of the outlet, and the suboccipito-frontal diameter would naturally tend to rotate into this, the oblique and the transverse diameters of the out- let being respectively 4^ inches and 4 inches, even if it were unaided by the slope of the left half of the pelvic floor. This movement of internal rotation may be put in another way, perhaps more simply. Again, comparing the foetal head to an egg in a tube, the long axis of the egg corresponding to the mento-vertical diameter of the head.