LEPROSY 384 with lassitude and debility. Vertigo, drowsi- ness, dyspepsia, febrile attacks associated with much sweating, and occasional epistaxis, are symptoms that have been noted. Dr. Hillis noticed in British Guiana that profuse sweating and vertigo constantly preceded the develop- ment of leprous erythema. This erythema is the first distinct local manifestation observable, and can only be explained on the hypothesis that the bacilli on their first development in the cutis exercise a toxic efltect on the vessels of the skin, leading to hyperemia. The erythema is observed in the form of small patches or in areas of considerable size, some- times well-defined and sometimes with indistinct borders. The colour is best seen in sudden changes of temperature, and that it is a true erythema is shown by its disappearing under pressure. In the negro the erythematous rash is red or brownish, in the white races of a crimson or reddish mahogany colour which gradually becomes darker. It is frequently seen in the face, and is also found in the ex- tremities. With the development of the rash the patient's general health improves, and he is for a time comparatively well. The skin may gradually resume its natural colour or remain slightly pigmented, but after a shorter or longer period the outbreak is renewed, and after a certain number of these attacks the erythematous patches remain, the colour re- maining stationary and the skin thickened. At this stage the erythema no longer disappears under pressure. Finally, with renewed attacks of fever the stage of unmistakable lepi'omatous infiltration becomes permanent. Lepra-tubercles. ѥ The mode by which the bacillus multiplies by local infection leads to the formation of tubercles or lepromes, which vary in size from a small pea to that of a small nut. Their form is rounded, and they may be isolated or confluent, of a colour varying from violet to dark brown or yellow, flattened in parts which are subject to pressure, and harder on the face and extremities than on the trunk. The swelling is localised in the cutis, the epi- dermis which covers them being stretched. Although the^y may occur on every part of the skin except the palms or soles or scalp, they are found more frequently in certain parts of the body than in others. They are usually first observed on the face, on the backs of the hands, and on the wrists (parts exposed to the atmo- sphere), and afterwards on the extensor surfaces of the limbs. They are rare on the back of the neck, and are not often seen on tlie back or nates. They are exceptional on the flexor surfaces of the limbs. Hillis, in British Guiana, found that the face, ears, nasal mucous mem- brane, extremities, nipple, mammary glands, scrotum, prepuce, margins of the anus, vagina, and the armpits are their most frequent sites. The parts most frequently found affected probably vary in different climates. Hansen and Looft state that in Norway, where people often go barefoot, wading through streams, marshes, and rivers, the backs of the feet and the under parts of the calves are frequently the seat of the first leprous eruption, not so often in the form of nodules as of a dense regular in filtration. The characteristic fades leonina is caused by the manner in which these nodules are situated in the face. They develop early and extensively in the skin of the eyebrows causing them to project over the eyes. The growth in the skin of the forehead above the eyes may be either nodular or take place as a thickened infiltration, but in either case it is deeply furrowed. After the disease has lasted for some time the hairs drop out of the eye brows. The persistent change of colour, the reddened and usually greasy appearance of the skin, and especially the thickening and change of colour over the eyebrows, are important diagnostic symptoms. As the infiltration pro- gresses the skin of the forehead becomes thicker, the cheeks uneven, the lips protuberant, the skin of the nose thick, and the ears large, rough, and inelastic from the leprous deposit. Particularly in the limbs the leprous infiltration may be in the form of simple diff'used thickening with a characteristic dark erythematous colour, without the development of special nodules. In sections from this discoloured skin leprosy bacilli are found. After a time the tubercles remain stationary, but the patient becomes subject to fresh attacks of fever, which are often coincided with their absorption ; but whilst the old tubercles absorb or disappear, fresh ones may develop at another part of the body, or during these attacks the tubercles may become red, swollen, and tender. The tubercles may disappear during the course of an acute disease. The leproma may persist a very long time without the epidermis being affected, but it des- quamates slightly, and is the seat of excessive sebaceous secretion. The natural elasticity of the skin is lost. The natural course of the leprosy tubercle is to soften : the epidermis falls off, the tubercle is then discharged, and a scar remains. If not properly treated they may take on necrotic action: the bones may be exposed, and parts become destroyed, particularly the fingers and toes may fall oft'. The cicatrices which follow ulceration are harder and wider than those which follow absorption. There is no perspiration in the skin which covers the tubercles, and the sensibility is diminished. The leprosy bacilli may develop in such a way that, instead of the formation of nodules, large flattened plaques of infiltrated skin may be found, especially in the limbs. This skin may break down in points, which may enlarge and coalesce, and form irregular ulcers with