115 KIDNEY The same operation is advocated for suitable cases of ascending renal tuberculosis. Advice to Patients concernimj Operation.— Advice to the patient anent operation in renal tuberculosis should rest finally and entirely with the operating surgeon. Upon his judg- ment must the necessity, the advisability, and the danger of nephrectomy depend. His must be the consideration of the exact stage which the disease has reached; his the determination of the stress resistance of the opposite kidney. This being made clear to the patient, the following statistics will be of value in dis- cussing the consideration of operation. Bolton Bangs of New York has collected cases from various sources. They are selected since 1888, for the means of diagnosis have been so improved since then by the perfection of the cystoscope and the catheterisation of the ureters, that statistics taken prior to that date are misleading. 135 cases are quoted. The immediate opera- tive mortality was 20 per cent. Immediate Mortality. Urfemia . .11 cases (42 per cent). Various accidents . 11 ,, Exhaustion . . 2 ,, Extension Tuberculosis 3 ,, 27 out of 135 = i or 20 per cent. Later Mortality. Died within nine months . .13 cases. Survived and fairly well up to nine months . . . . 31 ,, Survived one to eight years . . 45 ,, Half the cases, then, were very favourable, some living as long as eight years. Dr Bangs remarks:— " The first and undoubted conclusion which these statistics warrant is that the immediate resvilt of the operation for renal tuberculosis in the cases in which it is indicated is brilliant. Many cases which seemed in extremis and liable to speedy death from hectic hyperpyrexia, pain, etc., were immediately relieved, their existence made tolerably comfortable, and their lives pro- longed. A clear and positive conclusion of the remote results is exceedingly difficult to reach ; still I think the opinion based upon such statistics as I have been able to get is warranted that operation affords better remote results than hygiene." Hydatid Cysts Hydatid cysts are comparatively rarely met with in the kidney, forming only 5 per cent to 8 per cent of all hydatid disease (Davaine, Neisser). The cyst is usually limited to one kidney (98 per cent, B(^raud), often the left, and starts in the cortex. As it increases in size it projects from the surface of the organ and encroaches upon the renal pelvis. It frequently bursts into that cavity (82 per cent of the cases, Roberts). In size it may vary from that of an egg to that of a man's head. When feelable it forms a rounded, painless, elastic tumour in the hypogastrium—often irregular because of the multilocular nature of the cyst. If the contents have not suppurated spontaneously the swelling is movable; if the cyst has in- flamed the tumour becomes fixed. Occasionally the cyst wall is transformed into a semiosseous envelope, and in this condition it is densely hard, and afFoi'ds a striking but misleading skiagraph on radiography. Adhesions are nearly always contracted with neighbouring viscera, but they vary greatly in density. In one case in which I had to operate for the relief of intestinal obstruction, I found a kinked colon so adherent to the fixed bony case of a small unsuspected renal hydatid that I could not dissect it off' without opening the gut. When the cyst calcifies and dies, the contents are transformed into putty-like material which is composed of fat, cholesterine, and laminated membrane. Symptoms may be entirely absent, and a renal swelling discovered by accident, the patient's attention being drawn to the loin by a dull aching in that region. The first characteristic symptom is produced by the bursting of the cyst into the pelvis, and the passage of the hydatids or membranes in the shape of grapes or grape skins. Urticaria has been observed to follow rupture into the ureter (Mosler). Usually a rigor, accompanied by all the symptoms of renal colic, precedes the first attack, but the ureter soon enlarges and isolated cysts are passed without much suffering, unless a collection enters the pelvis and blocks the ureter. The cysts vary from the size of a pigeon's egg to that of a pea, but the larger are ruptured and are passed as mere collapsed sacs. It is astonishing for how many years these attacks continue. One of my patients stated that he had thus suffered for thirty-one years ; another that he had noticed the renal tumour for thirty years, but had only passed the cysts for five years. Suppuration sometimes takes place in the tumour, I suspect, as a consequence of its in- timate adherence to the colon, and instead of sterile urine, a thin, gruel-like urine, laden with pus, broken cysts, and large fragments of lami- nated membrane, is passed. I have treated a case of renal hydatid which discharged along the ureter for thirty years before suppurating. Diagnosis.—The presence of an elastic renal tumour in conjunction with attacks of renal colic of that side and the passage of an hydatid cyst, either whole or collapsed, is, of course.