LIVEE, DISEASES OF 477 recorded examples of abnormal lobulation of the liver are of this nature. In some cases there may be extensive lardaceous disease, giving rise to albuminuria, diarrhoea, and enlargement of the spleen. The pressure of a gumma or con- traction of its cicatrix may involve the portal vein, or, more rarely, the bile duct, giving rise to ascites and jaundice. From cirrhosis of the liver and new growths this condition may be distinguished by the presence of syphilitic lesions in the skin, bones, and sense organs, eye, nose, ear; and by the effect of antisyphilitic remedies. From acquired syphilis it is distinguished by the presence of stigmata of the congenital form, such as nebulae on the cornea from former inter- stitial keratitis, or Hutchinson's teeth. The clinical characters and treatment are the same as those of the acquired disease. Multilobular Cirrhosis developing in the Subjects of Hereditary Syphilis.—The diffuse pericellular cirrhosis of infants the subjects of congenital syphilis is, like the lesions of the secondary stage of the acquired disease, a curable lesion. Microscopic examination of the livers of children formerly affected with well- marked hereditary syphilis may show no disease. On the other hand, every now and again the liver of a child who bears undoubted stigmata of congenital syphilis in the body is found to show ordinary cirrhosis. The arrange- ment of the two lesions is so dissimilar that pericellular cirrhosis cannot be thought to be transformed into multilobular cirrhosis; it would rather tend to diffuse fibrosis or gum- matous change. It seems probable that the pericellular cirrhosis undergoes absorption, but that some vulnerability and diminished resist- ance of the liver is left behind. If causes then arise that tend to produce ordinary cirrhosis, this change will be readily produced. In other words, the multilobular cirrhosis is a para- syphilitic lesion, and is comparable to general paralysis of the insane, in that though not syphilitic it is favoured by syphilisation of the soil. In some instances there is very diffuse cir- rhosis, suggesting that multilobular cirrhosis has supervened before the pericellular cirrhosis had receded, and that some of the fibrous infiltration was due to organisation of the pericellular formation. Occasionally in multilobular cirrhosis occur- ring early in life in the subjects of congenital syphilis, there is early lardaceous change in the organ. What proportion of small cirrhotic livers in children have a substratum of syphilitic taint, it is difficult to say. Statistics of reported cases of cirrhosis in children make it clear that direct evidence of syphilis is often not forth-* coming. The clinical features of these cases of cirrhosis is much the same as those of common (small liver) cirrhosis, viz., those of portal obstruction, ascites, wasting, etc. It may be very difficult to differentiate be- tween these cases of cirrhosis in individuals with other manifest signs of congenital syphilis on the one hand, and cases of tardive hereditary syphilis with hepatic lesions and ascites on the other hand. In the latter there may be exces- sive lardaceous disease, as shown by albuminuria. Iodide of potassium and mercury should be tried, and improvement will point to hepatic gummata and cicatrices due to tardive hereditary syphilis, and must then be pushed. The 2)rognosis of these cases is very bad. The treatment is that of ordinary cirrhosis, viz., milk diet, no alcohol or irritating food. The prevention of constipation and auto-intoxi- cation by intestinal antiseptics such as calomel, salicylate of soda, /3-naphthol, is important. Iodide of potassium should be given con- stantly, as is often done in common cirrhosis of adults, to prevent if possible any further progress in the disease. But as the lesion is parasyphilitic rather than syphilitic, iodide of potassium can hardly be expected to remove the fibrosis. Ltmphadenoma In generalised lymphadenoma the liver not infrequently contains nodules of growth. As a rule they are small, and rarely give rise to much enlargement of the organ. In exceptional cases the liver is considerably enlarged, and if the superficial lymphatic glands available for clinical examination are little affected, the clinical aspect may suggest hep- atic abscess as in a case under my care, or even malignant disease of the liver (Suchard et Teissier). For the morbid anatomy and other details vide article on "Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology." Actinomycosis of the Liver When actinomycosis occurs in the liver it must always be conveyed from some absorbent surface, such as the intestines, or spread to the liver by continuity. In 30 cases of hepatic actinomycosis collected by Aribaud, the growth was derived from the alimentary tract in 20, spreading by direct extension in 8 cases and by metastasis in 12. The liver may be affected by extension from the base of the lung, the in- fection spreading through the diaphragm, or possibly the primary lesion may be in the skin of the abdominal wall. Sometimes the primary source of inlet is not found ; thus Taylor, Shattock, and Boari have described primary actinomycosis of the liver. Morbid Anatomy. — The liver is enlarged. The actinomycotic abscess has a characteristic honeycombed aspect, and has been compared