LIGHTNING-PAINS 422 Lig^htning:-Pains. See Tabes Dor- SALis {Symptomatology, Sensory Symptoms, Sub- jective). LigTlin.—A body closely allied to cellulose (CgHjpOj), and perhaps having the formula CJ9H24OJQ, and forming the greater part of wood. Lig-nosulphin or Lag'nosul- phite. — A disinfectant product obtained during the manufacture of sulpho-cellulose or cellulose. Ligfnum.—Wood, especially in such ex- pressions as lignum vitce (Guaiac Wood), lignum fehrium (Cinchona Wood), etc. LigfUla..—A tongue-shaped or strap-shaped structure. Lilienfeld's Theory.— The theory that, in coagulation of the blood, the splitting of fibrinogen into globulin and thrombosin is due to the nucleo-proteid. Lily of the Valley. See Convallaria Majalis. Li man Cure.—The treatment of disease (e.g. rheumatism) by bathing in salt lakes, called limans, near Odessa; limanol is an extract obtained from the mud of these limans. Limatura Ferri.—Iron filings. Limb.—One of the extremities in contra- distinction to the head and trunk of the body. See Deformities ; Embryology, Human ; Fcetus AND Ovum, Development of (Limbs); Joints ; Labour, Accidental Complications {Displace- ment of Arms, Prolapse of Foot); Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism {Podalic Lies); Pregnancy, Intra-utbrine Diseases of Foetus (Congenital Amputations); Syphilis (in Childi-en, Bones of Limbs). See also Amputations ; Frac- tures ; etc., etc. Li m bus.—A border, margin, edge, or rim, e.g. the limbus acetabuli of the hip-joint, the limbus corne£e or margin of the cornea where it joins with the sclerotic. Lime. See Calcium and its Salts; Diet (Mineral Constituents of Food); Gout (Etiology, Lime in Drinking Water); Mineral Waters (Farthy and Calcareous); Stools (Intestinal Sand); Teeth (Dental Caries, Causes, Deficiency of Lime Salts); Urine, Pathological Changes in (Urinary Calculi). Lime Fruit.—The fruit of various species of Citrus, from which citric acid is prepared; the lime-juice of commerce, which contains be- tween 7 and 10 per cent of citric acid and keeps without the addition of alcohol, is used in scurvy. See Citric Acid ; Scurvy in Adults (Prophylaxis). Lime Process.—A method of disposing of sewage by subsidence and chemical treat- ment, slaked lime being added to the sewage in the proportion of 12 or 15 grains to the gallon; modifications of this method are those in which sulphate of alumina, or clay, or proto- sulphate of iron, or herring brine are added as well as the lime. Lime Test.—The detection of lime in drinking water by the addition of a solution of oxalate of ammonium, which gives a white precipitate. Limiting^ Membrane. See Physio- logy, Senses (Vision, Anatomy); Retina and Optic Nerve (Anatomy). Limnoea Truncatulata. See Parasites (Helminths). LimoniS Cortex.—Lemon peel. See Lemon. Li mOSiS.—Insatiable appetite or unnatural craving for food. See Appetite (Perversions); Bulimia; Pica. Limotherapy.—Treatment of diseases by deprivation of food (Gr. At/x,os, hunger, and OepaTreia, treatment). Linadin.—A preparation obtained from the spleen (containing iron and iodine) and used in cases of malarial cachexia. LinalOOl.—A constituent (an alcohol) of oil of lavender, CjqHj,^OH, isomeric with borneol, geraniol, and menthol. See Lavender. Linamarin.—A glucoside obtained from linseed (q.v.), and splitting up into glucose and hydrocyanic acid under the action of acids. Li net US.—A thick, sweet, medicinal pre- paration which can be taken by licking (Lat. linx/ere, to lick); it usually contains honey or treacle. LinctUS OpiatuS.—A linctus contain- ing treacle and tincture of opium (2 m.) which is used in troublesome night cough as a local sedative to the pharynx; it is allowed slowly to melt in the mouth. Linea.—A term commonly used in ana- tomy to signify an elongated mark, or strip of tissue, or boundary, or ridge, e.g. the iliopectineal line, the linea aspera, the linea alba, etc.; some- times the line is imaginary, e.g. the nipple line or the axillary line. The linese albicantes of pregnancy are cracks due to the rapid disten- sion of the anterior abdominal wall by the growing uterus. The blue line on the gums is characteristic of lead-poisoning. Linen. See Trades, Dangerous (Flax and Linen).