OF THE CARTILAGES LARYNX, AFFECTIONS 372 The symptoms of this affection must therefore vary considerably; they consist mainly in alterations in the voice and in some degree of dyspnoea, both being determined by the position of the affected cord or cords. The voice may be unaltered; it may be husky or completely lost. Dyspnoea, which may be marked, results from the fixation of both vocal cords near to each other. The diagnosis is sometimes difficult, in other cases impossible, especially when from the absence of any thickening about the arytenoid cartilage a differentiation from true nerve paralysis is practically impossible. Semon lays considerable stress upon the following diagnostic points: the presence of tumefaction round an immobile arytenoid cartilage or an abnormal position of the same ; the presence of cicatrices or cicatricial distortion; and lastly, fixation of the vocal cord in the abducted position. 3. Stenosis of the Larynx After what has already been written upon perichondritis and anchylosis of the crico-ary- tenoid joint in the two previous sections, little remains to be added upon the subject of laryn- geal stenosis. In addition to the many laryngeal affections there enumerated, which may lead to some degree of narrowing of the lumen of the larynx, we must mention a few in which no antecedent perichondritis is found. To these must be added congenital webs or adhesions between the vocal cords ; the false membrane of diphtheria; the acute oedema complicating septic inflammations, and the presence of suspected foreign bodies; and lastly, bilateral abductor paralysis of the vocal cords of neuropathic origin. Treatment.—The treatment of perichondritis and its sequelae must be considered under three heads:— 1. The treatment of the acute stage of the inflammation. 2. The relief of dyspnoea. 3. Treatment of the resulting deformity (stenosis). 1. During the stage of acute inflammation the patient must remain in bed, and absolute rest of the voice must be insisted upon. Cold may be applied to the larynx externally by means of a Leiter's coil or by an ice bag, while further relief may be obtained by the sucking of ice. Some recommend the application of leeches over the larynx. If the pain is severe, opium is necessary; the food should be soft, non-irritating, and cold. Sometimes all the nourishment must be given by means of enemata. In the syphilitic cases potassium iodide should be administered internally in conjunction with mercurial inunction. If an abscess bursts and continues to discharge, tonics and a nourishing diet become necessary. 2. If dyspnoea threaten, scarification of the swelling may afford the necessary relief; or in the event of the abscess pointing, incision should be practised. Intubation may be possible ; but if these methods fail to give relief, or if the case has become an urgent one, tracheotomy must be performed. 3. The treatment of the resulting stenosis, although a subject of great importance, can only be briefly dealt with here. Dilatation with intubation tubes or bougies, thyrotomy or the permanent use of a tracheotomy tube, are the means at our disposal for such treatment. Gradual dilatation by means of O'Dwyer's tubes has been successfully practised in those cases of stenosis which have resulted from chronic cicatricial contraction of the glottis, if the commencement of such treatment has not been too long delayed. The size of the tube intro- duced is from time to time increased. Similar results have been obtained by the temporary introduction of Schroetter's tubes and specially devised cannulse. In a large number of cases, however, dilatation does not prove satisfactory, and the patient is subjected to considerable discomfort and annoyance without any advan- tage accruing. Sometimes the thyroid cartilage is split (thyrotomy or laryngo-fissure), the parts being thus thoroughly exposed, and the in- filtrated tissue dissected off with the object of enlarging the glottic aperture. In spite of care taken in the after-treatment to maintain the lumen of the larynx by the passage of bougies, a relapse to the former condition follows in a number of cases. The wearing of a tracheotomy tube permanently becomes in many instances a necessity, which gives, however, to the patient the greatest possible amount of comfort under the circumstances. Not only is the risk of respiratory difficulty in this way overcome, but he is able, by placing his finger upon the outer end of his tube, to converse with those about him often with considerable success. Congenital Laryngeal Stridor Synonyms : Infantile Laryngeal Spasm, Infantile Respiratory Spasm, Respiratory Croaking, Congenital Laryngeal Obstruction. Definition.—A condition of noisy breathing, due to interference with the free entrance of air into the larynx, which begins at or soon after birth, lasts more or less continuously for many months, and disappears spontaneously before the end of the second year. Clinical Features.—In a typical and uncom- plicated case of congenital stridor, the infant who appears normal in other respects is noticed immediately, or within a week or two after birth, to have noisy breathing. The noise consists of a crowing sound accompanying in- spiration, which rises to a high-pitched crow when a longer or more vigorous breath is taken. Expiration is often accompanied by a short crow