250 LABOUR, ACCIDENTAL COMPLICATIONS (vi.) Undue Shortness of the Cord.—This is a rare complication of delivery. It is more common for apparent shortness to occur as a result of coiling of the cord round the neck of the child in vertex presentations, or owing to the child riding on the cord in the case of pelvic presentations. In the latter case the cord is stretched down between the thighs and up over the back of the child towards the placenta. Shortness of the cord, either actual or relative, can only affect delivery during the later stages of expulsion. During the early stages of ex- pulsion progress is gradual, and the uterus retracts down as the child descends through the parturient canal. In the later stages of delivery a short cord may interfere with further progress, owing to the stretching of the cord between the umbilicus and the placental site preventing further advance of the presenting part. Certain signs are said to be suggestive of this condition, but none are actually diagnostic. These are descent of the presenting part during the pains with some hccmorrhage, followed by recession in the intervals, in cases where there is no marked resistance of the soft parts of the pelvic floor ; also dragging pain referred to the placental attachment of the cord. Certain diagnosis is usually only possible when the cord can be felt tense and stretched. Examination per rectum may assist the diagnosis, when the shortening is due to coiling of the cord round the neck, and the descent of the head is prevented. The treatment of relative shortness of the cord due to coiling roimd the neck has already been described. Where the child rides on the cord the treatment consists in drawing down a loop of the cord, flexing the posterior knee, and slipping the loop of cord over it. After this the foetal heart must Vie watched, and should it show signs of failing, rapid delivery must be effected. Where there is actual shortening of the cord it may in rare cases be necessary to divide the cord with scissors, following this up by immediate delivery. (viii.) Pressure on the Cord.—In all cases of labour where the breech or lower extremities present, the umbilical cord is necessarily ex- posed to pressure during the expulsion of the child. In normal delivery the amount of pressure is not sufficiently great to interfere with the circulation in the umbilical vessels, owing to the latter being embedded in the elastic envelope formed by the jelly of Wharton. Where, however, there is any undue resist- ance in the parturient canal, as in the case of primiparte, the pressure on the cord may be a serious complication, and it may be especially injurious during the passage of the head tiirough the pelvis. Great danger is present where the after-coming head is delayed in cases of pelvic contraction. In these cases the cord is likely to be compressed lietween the resistant head and the bony rim of the pelvis and the child will soon perish from asphyxia unless immediate delivery is possible. In some cases of forceps delivery, where the cord is coiled round the neck of the foetus, death of the foetus has been caused by one blade of the forceps pressing on the cord and obstructing the circulation. Such an injury can usually be avoided by careful vaginal ex- amination previous to application of the forceps. B. Prolapse of Arm Prolapse of one or other upper extremity occurs under two conditions. It may be pro- lapsed and occupy the vagina in cases of shoulder presentations, or it may be prolapsed in cases of vertex presentations. The former will be con- sidered in the article on shoulder presentations, the latter is an accidental complication of what might otherwise be a normal delivery. Slight descent of the upper limb may be found in the early stages of dilatation, and may disappear as the head engages more deeply. When the arm is found more deeply prolapsed by the side of the head there is usually some want of adapta- tion between the head and the lower uterine segment. It is found in cases of contracted pelvis and in lateral deviation of the head, and may siiddenly occur at the time of rupture of the membranes. Death of the foetus predisposes to prolapse of the arm, inasmuch as the normal attitude may be lost. Prolapse of the arm does not necessarily interfere with the progress of labour, though it may in some cases. The posterior part of the pelvis affords the most available space, and is therefore the most favour- able position for the prolapsed limb. If the arm becomes prolapsed in front of the head it is more likely to cause the head to be wedged into the brim of the pelvis. Further progress of the head is thus prevented, and the prolapsed arm may be damaged or even fractured. The diag- nosis of the condition is readily made, and by careful examination of the head it is not difficult to decide which arm is prolapsed. The treatment consists in pushing up the arm, if this is possible, special care being taken to press the arm towards the ventral aspect of the child. Failing this, perform internal version. If the head has passed the pelvic brim, and is lying in the cavity of the pelvis, leave the case to nature, as delivery may follow without inter- ference. If delay occurs at this stage it is best to complete the delivery with forceps, taking special care to avoid damaging the prolapsed extremity during the application of the blades. C. Dorsal Displacement of the Arm This is a rare complication of pelvic presenta- tions, and occurs still less frequently in some cases where the vertex presents. In pelvic presentations this displacement may be caused by injudicious attempts to rotate the body of the child during the delivery of the trunk, or it