511 LIVER—TEOPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES operations single-handed. There is now, how- ever, no justification for the expectant treat- ment. With the aspirator and a simple trocar and cannula any medical man can operate by himself and at once, and there is no reason for delay. The expectant treatment, therefore, cannot be too strongly condemned; it is wrong in principle, and dangerous in the extreme to the patient. Delay even is indefensible. The moment a liver abscess is suspected, no time ought to be lost in exploring the liver and draining the abscess when found. Exploring the Liver for Pus.—There are two rules to be followed when an abscess in the liver is suspected: (1) explore the liver at once by the needle of an aspirator; (2) be prepared to operate forthwith if pus is found. There need be no hesitancy in regard to probing the liver by a hollow needle in search of pus. If pus is not found, the congestion, hypersemia, or inflam- matory state of the liver will be relieved by the punctures. The pricking of the liver capsule in several places may of itself lessen the pain and tension, and the abstraction of blood, either immediately by the needle of the aspir- ator, or by the subsequent escape of blood into the peritoneal cavity from the punctures in the liver (see above), will do good. When operating in such cases, and when the blood flows fairly freely through the aspirating needle, the writer invariably allows the blood to flow to the extent of 5 to 8 ounces before withdrawing the needle and inserting it elsewhere. This procedure is usually attended by satisfactory results, even when no pus is found, the temperature falling almost immediately, the pain subsiding, and any cough, local distress, or intestinal flux, which had existed previously, disappearing. The Site of Puncture. — The needle of the aspirator has to be inserted at the point where, by percussion, abnormal dulness is elicited. It matters not whether the dulness or the tumour is made out in the front, the right side, or in the scapular line of the chest; or whether it is towards the epigastrium that the abscess is tending, and the abdominal wall has to be punctured. When the chest wall has to be traversed, the inexperienced, in such cases, hesitate for anatomical reasons to puncture beyond a couple of inches above the lower border of the rib cartilages. The pleura descends to within three fingers' breadth of the rib cartilages, and it is this anatomical feature which engenders the hesitancy to puncture higher. There need be no such dread ; the fact that the pleura is traversed by the needle or by a trocar and cannula is no deterrent, and all danger from such a source is to be discounted. The danger of puncturing the lung itself is also of but anatomical interest. The right lung normally comes as low as a line drawn from the sternum, at the spot where the sixth cai'tillage joins it, backwards along the right side to the spine of the tenth dorsal vertebra. This limit in the nipple line crosses the sixth rib ; in the posterior axillary line it crosses the eighth rib; and in the scapular line the tenth rib. It may be unwise to puncture above these levels ; but when the liver is swollen, or when a collection of pus has pushed up the right lung, there is but little danger of the lung being wounded. The writer has frequently punctured the lung during an exploration of the liver, as testified by a blood-tinged sputum subsequently, but no un- toward symptom has ever resulted. It is need- less, therefore, to confine exploratory punctures to subpleural or even subpulmonary limits, as no damage can be done; by adhering too closely to these normal anatomical limits an abscess of the dome of the liver may be alto- gether missed. The Depth of the Puncture.—How deeply is it safe to insert a needle or a trocar and cannula into the liver % The chief danger to be con- templated is puncture of the inferior vena cava or the trunk of the portal vein before it gains entrance to the liver substance. The writer has experimentally tested the point, but the chances of exact measurement are few. So far this has been proved—namely, that in a body of 32 inches in circumference, and in the region of the liver, the inferior vena cava is 4 inches from the sur- face of the chest, anywhere in the hepatic region in a horizontal line drawn round the right side of the chest from the mid-line in front to the angles of the ribs. The measurements were made in the frozen section of the body. When chest measurements are greater or less than 32 inches, the distance, of course, proportionably diminishes or increases ; but it may be taken as a broad rule that no needle or trocar should be introduced to a greater depth into the liver in the direction of the vertebral column, horizon- tally from the surface, than 4 inches. Should this rule be observed, the dangers of hemorrhage whichhavebeen recorded as having occurred after hepatic exploratory puncture would probably be annulled. The portal vein, should it be punc- tured at the gate of the liver before it breaks up in the liver substance, would probably result in fatal haemorrhage. This accident it is difficult to guard against by anatomical measurements, but care exercised during operation that the needle-point is traversing resisting tissues will go far towards preventing so untoward a result. The writer has had the needle of the aspirator and the trocar and cannula with which he operates marked in inches, so that the depth of the puncture by either instrument is exactly known. Before exploratory puncture of liver, steps should be taken to render the skin and instru- ment aseptic. After operation, should pus not be found, it is necessary only to wipe the punc- ture wounds clean, and cover them over with a film of blue wool and a coating of collodion.