402 LEUCOCYTOSIS most fully worked out, and we may state the chief facts by way of illustration. The number of leucocytes rises within an hour or two after the rigor ; in fact, in some cases has been found to be raised even at the time of rigor. The number rises with comparative rapidity, and during the period of fever remains high, showing variations of irregular type. It usually com- mences to fall a short time before the crisis, and falls rather more gradually than the temperature does; hence on the day after the crisis the number may still be a little above normal. During the leucocytosis period the increase, as we have said, is on the part of the finely granular neutrophile leucocytes. In delayed resolution the leuco- cytosis persists, though usually diminished in degree, their proportion often rising to 90 per cent or even more. The lymphocytes may show a slight actual decrease, and one striking and well-authenticated fact is that the eosinophiles may practically disappear from the peripheral circulation ; at least, it may be impossible to find a single example on examining a number of films. At or shortly after the crisis the hyaline leuco- cytes may show a slight relative increase, whilst the eosinophiles reappear in the blood, and a day or two afterwards may show a percentage above the normal. A fall in the temperature without amelioration in the condition, a "pseudo-crisis," is usually unattended by diminution in the leucocytosis. Furthermore, in very grave cases leucocytosis may be absent and leucopenia may be present throughout the case ; or a leucocytosis, present at first, may gradually disappear and give place to leucopenia, even although the temperature remains high ; sometimes also a few myelocytes may appear in the blood. These conditions are always to be regarded as of grave significance. The blood examination in pneu- monia is undoubtedly of considerable value; it may aid the diagnosis in cases of deep-seated pneumonia: it enables one to judge of the significance of variations of the temperature; and from what has just been stated, it will be seen that it affords valuable assistance in the matter of prognosis. In the other diseases mentioned above the leucocytes show somewhat analogous changes to those in pneumonia, though they may not be so pronounced. The increase of the finely granular leucocytes is again the prominent feature, whilst the eosinophiles are in most cases diminished and not infrequently absent. The fall of the tem- perature by crisis is attended by a disappearance of the leucocytosis, and a rise in the number of the hyaline cells, and it may be of the lympho- cytes, is not uncommon. Also, it may be stated as a general rule that the disappearance or absence of the leucocytosis occurring in a disease (where leucocytosis is the rule) associated with severe symptoms, is to be regarded as a graver sign than when leucocytosis is well marked. The infective diseases in wliich a noruial or subnormal leucocyte number is the rule are mentioned below. (b) Toxic Leucocytosis.—The term is applied in a somewhat loose way to conditions in which there is manifestly some toxic agent in the blood, but in which there is no distinct evidence of in- fection. We shall afterwards have to discuss whether the leucocytosis described under heading (a) is not really of the same nature as toxic leuco- cytosis. Here we may mention as examples, gout, some cases of malignant jaundice, acute yellow atrophy of the liver, some cases of lead poisoning, chronic Bright's disease, etc. Leuco- cytosis may be also produced by the administra- tion of various drugs, e.g. especially volatile oils, pilocarpine, etc., and has also been produced ex- perimentally by the injection of a great many diff'erent substances, as will be described below. In such conditions the leucocytosis presents the same characters as in the first group, but is on the whole less in degree. (c) Post-hsemorrhagic Leucocytosis.—When a large haemorrhage occurs leucocytosis appears usually within two or three hours, continues for a day or two, and if there be no renewal of the hjemorrhage, gradually disappears. If, however, there are repeated hsemorrhages and a condition of marked ansemia results, the leucocytosis is found along with the anaemic conditions. Though the increase is usually quite distinct the number does not often rise above 15,000. Here the course is manifestly diff'erent from that in the two previous groups. Its exact mode of opera- tion is not quite clear, but it is undoubtedly connected in some way with the process of dilu- tion which the blood undergoes after haemor- rhage. It certainly is not due to retention of the leucocytes in greater proportion than the red blood corpuscles, as it is absent immediately after the haemorrhage, and takes some time to appear. (d) The number of leucocytes in cases of malignant disease varies greatly, but it may be said as a rule that where cachexia with consider- able anaemia is present, leucocytosis is the rule. This occurs both with cancer and with sarcoma, but in some cases there is a considerable leuco- cytosis before the cachectic stage is established. In extreme anaemia the presence of leucocytosis, with increase in the blood-plates aiad diminution of the haemoglobin per corpuscle, indicates a cachectic (secondary) anaemia. Absence of Leucocytosis, Leukopenia. — The most infective conditions in which leucocytosis is absent are typhoid fever, malarial fever, tuber- culosis uncomplicated by suppuration or cavity formation, measles, and most cases of influenza. In all these conditions the number tends rather to be below than above the normal, and this is especially the case in typhoid fever, notably in the later period of the disease. The diminution is chieiiy on the part of the finely granular cells, though the others may be slightly affected. A