253 LABOUE, RETENTION OF PLACENTA dition is not truly pathological at all; the placenta would probably, in all such cases, be expelled spontaneously if only sufficient time were allowed. As already stated, however, modern practice authorises the removal of the placenta by artificial means if its delivery is delayed beyond an hour; hence the frequency of simple retention. Cases are recorded where the placenta has been expelled spontaneously several days, or even a week, after the birth of the child, without any untoward result to the mother. Two clear risks attend prolonged retention—(1) the risk of hsemorrhage ; (2) the I'isk of decomposition of the placental tissue. As long as the placenta remains completely undetached there will be no hsemorrhage, because no uterine vessel has been laid open. Should any part, however, become detached, serious bleeding may occur from the denuded part of the uterine wall, and interference may become urgently required at very short notice. Decomposition of the placental tissue would not occur if atmospheric organisms could be rigidly excluded from the genital tract; but as this is impracticable, dead organic matter in the uterine cavity is rightly regarded as a source of grave danger. On the other hand, manual removal of the placenta under antiseptic methods introduces no additional risk, while at the same time it relieves the patient from the dangers mentioned. Non-appearance of the placenta within an hour after the birth of the child is therefore an indication for interference on the part of the medical attendant. If there is vmusual bleeding, the placenta has been partially detached; if not, the placental attachments have been un- disturbed. Serious haemorrhage is, however, unusual in this form of retention. On passing the fingers into the uterine cavity the detach- ment of the placenta can be effected with great ease, and herein lies the diagnostic distinction between this form of retention and that next to be described. II. Morbid Adhesion of the Placenta.—It is obvious that the pathological lesion which determines this condition must lie in the stratum through which the line of cleavage passes in the normal process of separation, i.e. in the am- pullary layer of the decidua serotina. It is a fact not very creditable to obstetrics that the precise nature of these changes has never been determined. The question can only be profit- ably studied in the placenta in situ, i.e. before the morbid attachments have been destroyed, and, of course, opportunities of obtaining a uterus with an undetached adherent placenta must be extremely rare. It is easy to surmise than an inflammatory process attacks the sero- tina, rendering it thicker, denser, and tougher than usual; but there is no actual evidence that such a change ever occurs in the decidua, and it is better to admit that the causes are entirely unknown. The morbid condition, whatever it may be, rarely involves the entire placenta ; some portion of it is usually separated by the normal process, while the affected part remains attached. The result is that smart htemorrhaffe occurs from the stripped pai't of the placental site, although at the same time the uterus may feel hard and firmly retracted. While the placenta remains wholly or partly in the uterine cavity complete retraction is impos- sible, and for the closure of the uterine sinuses it is essential that complete retraction should occur. We find this condition is usually indicated, therefore, by hfemorrhage, while the uterus remains large and is fairly well retracted ; it is thus readily distinguished from htemorrhage due to uterine inertia. Haemorrhage is almost invariable with morbid adhesion of the placenta, because the adhesion is practically never uni- versal, but affects portions of the placenta only. If universal adhesion be present there is, of course, no haemorrhage. Neither is there ex- ternal bleeding in the rare cases in which the circumference of the placenta is adherent while the central part becomes detached ; a large retro-placental haematoma may then be formed. Sometimes the membranes as well as the placenta are adherent. The diagnosis of this condition depends upon the recognition by the fingers of the morbid adhesions. Firm, dense bands and strings are found uniting the placenta with the uterus; these usually have to be torn through with the fingers or finger-nails, as they are so firmly united to the uterine wall. Sometimes portions of placental tissue cannot be removed at all, and must be left to break down and become discharged with the lochia. Cases have been recorded (Morgagni, Tarnier) where scissors have been required to cut through bands of unusual strength. The treatment is to receive the placenta without delay. The method of removing the retained placenta will be dealt with in the last paragraph of this article. III. SjMsmodic Contraction of the Uterus.— The absurd and meaningless name which is still usually applied to this condition is " hou7-- fflass contraction of the uterus," a name supposed to indicate the peculiar alteration in the shape of the organ which was supposed to be induced by it. The original diagrams are still faithfully copied into obstetric text-books, although they represent, not the condition actually found, but the theory by which their author sought to account for what he found. It is essentially a deviation from the normal processes of retrac- tion and contraction of the uterine muscle which obtains during the third stage of labour. A transverse zone of spasmodic contraction occurs, usually just above the retraction ring, which narrows the cavity so much that it may be impossible to pass the finger through it, and the cord may be tightly gripped. Very rarely