LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS 335 takes the form of a rounded eminence in the centre of the upper surface of the cord, as if half a small hemp seed had been inserted below the epithelial surface; but in the majority of cases the site of the nodule is at the junction of the upper and inner borders, and at one char- acteristic point, viz., at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds. Sometimes before any nodule is distinctly present, and when the patient is complaining simply of voice fatigue and occasional hoarseness, the only change apparent on inspection is a slight churning up of mucus into a little froth at this situation when the cords are approximated. Later on the cords lose their normally white surface and become dull, slightly translucent, and injected at this point. Finally a nodule appears, generally on both sides, although it is frequently more promi- nent on one side than on the other. This nodide may vary from the size of a turnip seed up to that of a small pea; its surface is smooth and it is generally semi-translucent, although a few vessels may be seen along its broad attached border. On attempted phonation the nodules, of course, prevent complete coaptation of the cords, and as a space is left in the glottis there is phonative waste. This gives the toneless and hollow harsh sound to the voice. Although these nodules are generally sessile and attached by a broad base, in certain instances they are more mobile, and by an increased effort of phonation the patient will be able to produce a clearer note. With the laryngoscope it will be seen that this is effected by the nodules being forced up on to the upper surface of the cords, so that the inner margins are able to approximate. These nodules, being dependent on the con- ditions already mentioned, are of course always accompanied by a certain degree of general laryngeal catarrh. Interfering as they do with the free movement of the cords, the tensors of the latter necessarily become impaired. This is not only from want of use, but, as Kanthack pointed out,^ because the condition is an in- flammatory one, and affects the muscles as well as the mucous membrane. Increasing hoarseness and sense of fatigue compel the patient to rest the voice, and this always secures a certain amount of relief; but the symptoms and the local conditions generally quickly recur as soon as the patient returns to his injurious surroundings and the over-use or misuse of the voice. Treatment.—The early stages of this affection should be treated on the lines laid down in the sections on chronic and hypertrophic laryngitis. Before resuming professional use of the voice, it is desirable that faulty methods of using it should be corrected. It is seldom that caustics should be used for this condition, and I cannot agree with Botey ^ Loc. cit. that it is ever desirable to introduce the point of a galvano-cautery into the larynx, considering how dangerous such a proceeding may be even in the hands of the most skilful, owing to sudden movement on the part of the patient and the amount of reaction always set up by a cautery. If the circumstances of the patient make pro- longed treatment impossible, or the nodules are well marked, they can be removed with intra- laryngeal forceps. In the majority of cases, and in patients who can afford the time, the treatment recommended for chronic laryngitis will generally be successful, especially when combined with strict rest of the voice. In some cases the silence should be absolute, although improvement is sometimes quicker if the " hum- ming " exercises recommended by Holbrook Curtis 1 are carried out. Laryngitis Sicca Synonyms : Chronic Atrophic Laryngitis, Ozcenatous Laryngitis, OzoenxL of the Larynx. Definition.—A chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the larynx, resulting in atrophy, and generally associated with the formation of crusts. Etiology.—It is questionable if this ever originates primarily in the larynx. When symptoms simulating it are found limited to the larynx they are generally the consequence of mouth-breathing or of syphilis. The disease is nearly always the result of purulent processes in the nose—suppuration in the accessory sinuses, ozaena, syphilis, neglected adenoids, etc. It is originated in the larnyx either by the pus trickling into the larynx, or by the inhalation of the pyogenic organisms from the nose, or as a result of the mouth- breathing induced. It is more common in females. Symptoms.—Interference with the voice is the leading symptom in this disease. It is worse in the morning, or after working in a dusty atmosphere. When the patient has succeeded in expelling some of the crusts adhering to the mucous surface the voice is quickly restored, although still hoarse. This expulsion of the dried secretion entails a great deal of painful coughing and hawking, and is sometimes ac- companied or followed by a little hsemoptysis, due to the abrasion consequent on the separa- tion of the sticky crusts. The expectorated crusts have sometimes a very foul ozsenatous odour. The mucus begins to dry again at once, and as the crusts form the patient be- comes gradually more or less aphonic and experiences considerable pain in speaking. Examination shows the presence of chronic laryngitis, and, in addition, the atrophy and crusts which ai'e characteristic of the disease. The latter may be found almost anywhere, 1 Voice-Building and Tone-Placing, New York, 1898.