195 LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF may prove a ready starting-place for a septic process during the puerperium. The bladder must not be allowed to become over-distended; the pressure of the head on the urethra often causes difficulty, and makes it necessary to use the catheter—a new gum- elastic catheter, or a flexible rubber one, size 10, will be found more easy to introduce than a metal one. Guide the point of the catheter by passing the index finger along the anterior vaginal wall until the point of contact between the head and the symphysis is reached. The pressure on these forms of catheter is rarely sufficient to obliterate the lumen. Delivery of the Head and the Preservation of the Perinemn.—As soon as the head begins to distend the perineum, more energetic treatment is called for. With regard to the position of the patient there are two methods in vogue, dorsal and left lateral. The lateral position is most usually adopted in this country; it certainly has the advantage of allowing the operator to see more clearly what is going on. If the patient lies on her left side, at right angles to the edge of the bed, the hips coming well up to the edge of the bed, and the legs flexed at the hip and running parallel with the side of the bed, the best attitude for guarding the perineum will be obtained. To preserve the perineum intact is very important; but if, in spite of all precautions, a laceration occurs, it must be repaired at once. The methods of doing this are described in the section, Injuries of the Generative Organs. A certain class of cases is more apt to have a ruptured perineum than others, e.g. elderly primiparse, peculiarly inelastic perineums even in young primiparse, a previously repaired peri- neum, or a specially long perineum. Then certain malpresentations, as a persistent occipito- posterior, are more likely to cause rupture. The administration of an anaesthetic during this stage is often advisable, by giving the physician more control over the movement of the head, and by lessening the voluntary muscular power during the pains. The methods adopted for the preservation of the perineum are modifications of the following principles, either to keep the head as much off the perineum as possible by pushing it forward, or to apply direct support to the perineum. The direct method is carried out by laying the palm of the left hand on the perineum, with the concavity between the first finger and the thumb lying over the posterior end of the vulva, and then pressing the perineum upwards against the advancing head. The disadvantage of this method is that it prevents the serous exudation passing into the tissues of the perineiim, by compressing it between the hand of the operator and the child's head. Of the various methods—indirect methods— which act by keeping the head pushed as much forwards as possible, I have found a modifica- tion of Hohl's method give the most satisfactory results. This consists in applying support, not to the perineum, but to the presenting part. The two essentials to its success are : that the head should remain flexed until the lowest possible point of the occiput comes to lie under the symphysis—after this point is reached extension may begin; secondly, that delivery must take place between the pains, and not during one. It is carried out as follows :— The operator sits in such a way that when the thumb of the right hand is applied to the presenting portion of the occiput, the elbow of the right arm can rest on the operator's right thigh. The thumb is applied to the most anterior part of the occiput, and the index and middle fingers posteriorly upon that portion of the head lying nearest to the symphysis. Steady pressure is exerted during each pain on the most anterior visible portion of the head, this preventing any strain on the fourchette or perineum—at first during the intervals between the pains, the right hand grasping the presenting part of the head; the chin is made to flex as much as possible, while the forehead and face are pulled forward in such a manner as to keep the chin at the same time in contact with the chest. As soon as the lowest possible point of the occiput comes to lie under the symphysis, the extension movement may begin. As the pains get stronger the power required to keep the head back off the edge of the perineum is considerable, and the right thumb has frequently to be supported by the left hand. The patient at the same time should be directed not to "bear down"; the voluntary efforts are prevented by making her cry out, taking away the pulley. When the supra-orbital ridges pass the tense border of the vulva, the perineum retracts rapidly over the face and the expulsion of the head is complete. This is the point when laceration is most apt to occur if it takes place during a pain; but if between the pains the patient bears down and the doctor pushes the head forward, it is easily delivered. The method adopted at the Rotunda Hospital is also a modification of the indirect method. It is carried out by applying the hand behind the anus and pushing the head forward. Rectal expression is carried out by some; it consists in passing two fingers into the rectum when the head is distending the perineum, hooking the fingers under the chin of the child through the then recto-vaginal septum, then by pressing forwards and iipwards the head can be easily delivered between the pains. Local applications, such as hot fomentation or the application of vaseline or other inunctions, are in use, but are not of much practical value. The same may probably be said of digital