JOINTS, DISEASES OF 68 the other members of this group, although their infective nature has not been established. For a description of them the reader is referred to the article on acute rheumatism. Joint aiiections associated with puerperal fever, otitis media, etc., are not in any sense specific, for they are the result of infection with the common pyogenic organisms. GoNORRHCEAL AFFECTIONS OF JoiNTS.—These include all forms of joint lesions associated with gonorrhoeal urethritis or gonorrhoeal ophthalmia. They may develop at any time during a gonorrhoea, but are usually met with when the infection has reached the deeper urethra. They have been observed after the discharge has ceased. There is no connection between the severity of the gonorrho-a and the liability to joint disease. The gouty and rheumatic are supposed to be more liable. The sexes are affected with equal frequency. As a complication of ophthalmia the joint lesion occurs more commonly towards the end of the second or during the third week. The joint lesions may be the only evidence of metastatic infection, or they may be part of a gonorrhoeal pyaemia, involving the endocardium, pleura, tendon sheaths, etc. The gonococcus is nearly always present in pure culture; it is found with most certainty in the synovial membrane, in which it is first deposited from the blood; it may be possible to find it in the exudation in the joint unless at the first onset of the disease. In the purulent forms of joint lesion the gonococcus may alone be present, or it may be associated with staphylococci or streptococci, the latter being derived either from the urethra or from elsewhere (throat, intestines, etc.). The order of frequency in which the joints are affected is as follows:—knee, elbow, ankle, hip, foot, wrist, shoulder, fingers. The joint affection is more often mono- articular than polyarticular. The following clinical types may be differen- tiated ; they may, however, merge into one another. 1. A dry polyarthritis, like chronic rheuma- tism, sometimes trifling and evanescent, and it may be recurring with each attack of gonor- rhoea, or persistent and progressive, resulting in partial or complete stiffening of the joints affected, and permanent crippling of the patient. 2. A form of chronic synovitis or hydrojjs, in which the joint, nearly always the knee, on one or both sides, quietly fills with fluid of a serous or sero-fibrinous character ; it closely resembles the hydrops from other causes; it is indolent, may readily subside under rest and then relapse, or may be very persistent and disabling. When recovered from, the joint may be expected to return to its normal condition. r , 3. A 7nore acute general injiammatioii of the joint (arthritis) may begin as such, or follow on a milder form of the disease ; there is sudden onset of sevei-e pain, swelling, inability to use the limb, and considerable fever; the swelling may extend well beyond the limits of the joint, and may be associated with oedema of the soft parts, the skin may be red and hot as in erysipelas; the adjacent tendon sheaths and bursse, especially at the ankle, wrist, and knee, may be simultaneously involved. While resolu- tion is possible the tendency towards stiffness and ankylosis is considerable. The ankylosis, at first fibrous from close adhesions between the surfaces, may become bony, and may be associ- ated with flexion or other deformity. This type of gonorrhoeal joint disease may be mistaken for acute rheumatism. The points in diagnosis are : its sudden onset without apparent cause, there is less tendency to wander from joint to joint once it has settled down, it is little influenced by salicylates, and it is frequently, if not always, mono-articular. In the author's experience it is more often met with in the elbow. 4. A suppurative form, or empyema, like that from ordinary pus microbes ; it is usually single, but may be multiple; it is fortunately rare, because it is very serious, endangering the joint, or the limb, or life itself. It may be the result of gonococcal infection alone, or of a mixed infection. Abscesses may form outside the joint. Recovery is attended with ankylosis. The diagnosis of gonorrhoeal affections of joints is often missed, because gonorrhoea is not suspected by the practitioner; the denial of the patient is not to be accepted, especially in the case of women ; sometimes the patient is really ignorant. The points in diagnosis from acute rheumatism have been already indicated. The prognosis should always be guarded, because the disease may relapse, or may prove tenacious and persistent; the patient may be laid up for weeks or months, and may be finally crippled in one or in several joints. The treatment (besides that of the urethral disease) consists in complete rest until all symptoms have disappeared. Salicylates may relieve suffering, but are not curative. Iodide of potash may also relieve symptoms. Locally, the joint is immobilised by means of a splint, or by cotton wool and an elastic bandage; extension is employed in the case of the hip. Great relief may be obtained from very hot baths, to which turpentine and black soap may be added. Konig recommends the use of tincture of iodine applied several times a day. In the persistent dry forms the hot-air bath or Bier's method by venous congestion may be employed. In hydrops, when the fluid persists, tapping should not be too long delayed; the joint may be washed out with a 1 per cent