JAUNDICE 56 Differential Diagnosis of Jaundice due to VARIOUS Causes.—Since the distinction between obstructive jaundice and toxajmic (or hsemo- hepatogenous) jaundice has already been con- sidered (p. 53), it is now only necessary to refer to the diiTerential diagnosis of the various factors that may give rise to obstructive jaundice. The causes of obstructive jaundice are very numerous, but for convenience they may be grouped into three classes:— (1) Where the obstruction is due to some- thing occluding the lumen of the bile ducts, such as a gall-stone, or parasites. (2) Where the obstruction depends on changes originating in the walls of the larger bile ducts, e.g. catarrhal cholangitis. (3) Where obstruction is due to processes arising outside the ducts and occluding them, either (i.) by direct pressure alone, or (ii.) by actually invading the tissues of the ducts. (1) Causes obstructiriff the Lumen of the Ducts. —(a) A gall-stone in the common duct is the most familiar example. A history of biliary colic, often of repeated attacks, preceding the development of jaundice is the rule ; sometimes, however, no history of colic is forthcoming, and the case may at first very closely resemble malignant disease; but as time goes on the jaimdice is not uniformly or necessarily pro- gressive ; sometimes, as the duct dilates around the stone, the jaundice fades and may even dis- appear. Another point of distinction is that in cholelithiasis the gall-bladder is usually small and contracted from past inflammation of its walls, whereas in malignant disease it is often enlarged. It is sometimes found that gall- stones and malignant disease are combined, especially in the case of the gall-bladder. When gall-stones remain long in the common duct infective cholangitis with intermittent hepatic fever may develop (vide " Disease of Gall-bladder and Bile Ducts," vol. iii.). Inspissated mucus and small calculi may also give rise to slight jaundice and attacks of pain, often described as "spasms," and regarded as dyspepsia. (fj) Parasites.—A hydatid cyst may discharge into the ducts, and membrane or daughter cysts block the ducts, giving rise to biliary colic, jaundice, and often to infective cholangitis. The diagnosis depends on the history that the patient has either had a cyst which has disappeared, or that an existing one has grown smaller about the time that the symptoms appeared, or still better on the presence of bile-stained pieces of hydatid membrane in the faeces, or possibly even in the vomit. Round worms (Ascaris lumbricoides) may enter the common bile duct from the duodenum and give rise to jaundice. Of this rare condition Mertens has collected forty-eight examples. Distomum hepaticnm, the liver fluke so fatal to sheep, has been found in the ducts of the human liver, as have in rare instances D. sinense and D. conjunctivum. In these cases the diagnosis depends on the recognition of the worms or their ova in the fseces. (c) As pathological curiosities some authors have referred to the presence of foreign bodies, such as needles, in the bile ducts. (2) Changes (yr-iginatiny in the Walls of the Ducts.—(a) Catarrhal jaundice due to inflam- matory swelling of the mucous membrane of the duct, at or extending some distance from the biliary papilla, and due to the spread of inflammation from the duodenum, is preceded by gastro-intestinal disturbance—diarrhoea and vomiting. It is of short duration, one to two weeks, and is not accompanied by the fever, enlarged spleen, and albuminuria seen in infectious jaundice. It should, however, be borne in mind that the jaundice of malignant disease and of acute yellow atrophy may begin exactly like benign catarrhal jaundice. {h) The infective and suppurative forms of cholangitis are usually associated with gall- stones or the rupture of a hydatid cyst into the ducts; but the more severe form com- plicates a considerable proportion of the cases of that rare condition, primary carcinoma of the duodenal surface of the biliary papilla. Possibly jaundice in the roseolous stage of syphilis is due to a specific cholangitis. In the infective forms the symptoms are those of intermittent hepatic fever, while in suppura- tive cholangitis the clinical pictxire is that of suppuration in the liver, and closely resembles pylephlebitis. It may be incidentally pointed out that jaundice may be absent in the suppura- tive cholangitis. (c) Growths of the mucous membrane of the ducts. Carcinoma, which is sometimes met with, gives rise to deep progressive jaundice with enlargement of the gall-bladder. At first, since it is often accompanied by colic, it may resemble gall-stones, while later it resembles malignant disease of the head of the pancreas. Innocent tumours, such as papillomata, are curiosities and cannot be accurately diagnosed. Xanthelasma has been known to occur in the mucous membrane of the bile ducts, but if multiple its occurrence on the st^in would probably, and in most instances rightly, be referred to jaundice due to some other cause. (rf) Simple stricture due to the cicatrisation of past ulceration in the ducts, such as might conceivably be set up by the passage of a gall-stone, is so extraordinarily rarely shown to exist that, clinically, cases of jaundice following hepatic colic should be regarded as due to fresh gall-stone impaction or to malignant disease. In very rare instances cicatrisation of a duodenal idcer involving the biliary papilla has been demonstrated, but duodenal ulcers are usually confined to the first part of the