480 LIVER, DISEASES OF tendency of tlie sarcomatous growth to spread along the capillaries, and so to assume an alveolar appearance. Physical Signs of Primary Malignant Disease.—The liver is nearly always enlarged ; it may be smooth or nodular, but in either case it increases progressively and often rapidly in size. The enlarged liver may displace the diaphragm upwards, and give rise to dulness at the base of the right lung; sometimes it is further complicated by pleural effusion. Ascites and jaundice are not so frequent as in secondary malignant disease of the liver. Ascites is said to be present in about half the cases, and not to be found in the massive form of primary carcinoma. Jaundice very rarely shows itself in the massive form ; when present, it is not of the dark green or black colour seen in some instances of secondary malignant disease. The patient's facial aspect is usually that of grave disease, and wasting occurs, but the progress of the disease is so acute as compared with that of secondary malignant disease that emaciation has barely time to become marked. The tumour growth may be so rapid that the body-weight actually increases in spite of general loss of flesh, ffidema of the feet may develop in the late stages. The temperature may be raised, and bacterial infection of the liver or the bile ducts may take place, and thus exceptionally rigors may be met with. There may be albuminuria due to toxic sub- stances in the circulation reaching the kidneys and damaging the delicate epithelium covering the glomerular tufts. When there is jaundice, bile pigment will be found in the urine. The chief symptoms are loss of strength, loss of appetite, gastric disturbance, and pain over the liver. Vomiting may be reflex in origin. Pain and tenderness depend on stretching of the capsule, or on local perihepatitis set up by the growth involving the capsule. In the late period of the disease hepatic insufiiciency may be developed; the patient passes into a drowsy, semi-comatose state, and haemorrhages may appear. The course of the disease is more rapid than that of secondary malignant disease, and few cases last more than four months ; sometimes the disease may justify the adjective acute, and its duration may be counted in weeks rather than months. Diagnosis.—Under this head the diagnosis of malignant disease in the liver substance, whether primary or secondary from other conditions, will first be considered, and then the distinction between primary and secondary and malignant disease will be referred to. In a few instances of primary malignant disease of the liver the existence of hepatic disease is not even suspected; but this is exceptional, and enlargement will usually be detected. In the massive form, where the surface is smooth, it must be distinguished from lardaceous disease ; in the latter, attention must be directed to the history of past suppuration, or of syphilis, and to signs of lardaceous change elsewhere. In the enlargement due to a deep-seated hydatid the patient's general health and strength remain good, while in carcinoma his powers rapidly fail. Multilocular or alveolar hydatid has often been mistaken for malignant disease, both clinically and even when found after death. It has not been described as occurring in England, and it is rare anywhere; in most cases of the disease the spleen is enlarged, thus differing from malignant disease. The large and tender liver of the terminal stage of mitral disease has been known to resemble malignant disease, but the history of the case and the signs of cardiac and circulatory disturbance should prevent any mistake. In rare instances the rapid growth of the tumour may give rise to fluctuation, while the raised temperature that is not infrequently seen may further increase the resemblance to various forms of intrahepatic suppuration, such as ab- scess, pylephlebitis, cholangitis, etc. Sometimes an exploratory incision is the only means of deciding the question. It may indeed happen that secondary infection either of the growth or of the ducts occurs, and that suppuration is thus superimposed on new growth. From the large liver of hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis primary malignant disease differs in its more rapid growth, in the absence of splenic enlargement, and in the character of the jaundice. In malignant disease it is either absent or, if present, obstructive, so that no bile passes into the bowel. In biliary cirrhosis jaundice is constantly present, but bile colours the faeces. Hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis is met with much earlier in life than malignant disease. In the late stages of ordinary or portal cirrhosis, if there be ascites and jaundice, the resemblance to cases of multiple nodular malignant disease of the liver is considerable; after paracentesis, the condition of the liver, comparatively small in cirrhosis, large or ex- tremely nodular in new growth, will generally render a definite decision possible. A large gumma of the liver may be accompanied by considerable cachexia, but should be recognised by the signs of syphilis elsewhere, and by the effect of vigorous treat- ment with iodides. Occasionally faecal accumulation in the trans- verse colon may imitate malignant disease; here the tumours may vary in position from time to time, can be indented by pressure, are capable of removal by purgatives or abdominal massage, and when a careful examination is made, if need be under an anaesthetic, other