LABOUR, OPERATIONS—EMBRYOTOMY 292 risk of its slipping on the surface. This rule is more needful to be observed with the older perforators than with the basilyst, the point of which, with its double-threaded screw, lays hold at once of the scalp and cannot slide off. 4th : Screw in the instrument up to the shoulder and open it widely and crucially. To obtain a wide gap in the vault it may be necessary to turn it in different directions and expand it. 5th: Advance the instrument into the brain and tear and break down as thoroughly as possible all the cerebrum, cerebellum, tentoria, and the ganglia at the base, otherwise the child may be extracted a living, breathing horror. When quite dead, a softening of its textures immediately ensues, which facilitates its delivery. 6th : Wash out the cranial cavity and the maternal canals with an antiseptic lotion. 7th: Remove with the fingers or a pair of pincers any loose frag- ments of bone from the edges of the opening in the skull. In some cases the head may be found so diminished in bulk as to be capable of ex- pulsion by the partvirient powers, aided, perhaps, by traction from below with the finger of the practitioner passed through the opening, or by the pressure of the assistant's hands above. Usually, however, it becomes necessary to have recourse to further reduction of the size of the head. II. Head Comminution.—Many methods have been adopted for breaking down the bones of the head, and many instruments have been con- trived for the purpose. They may all be grouped in five categories. (1) Craniotomy.—The earliest method con- sisted in laying hold of the plates of bone round the edges of the gap made in the vault and breaking off and removing the fragments morsel by morsel. The archaic writers on obstetrics describe pincers used for the purpose ; and the Lyon's forceps and countless other modern varieties are only modifications of the ancient Fia. 3.—Lyon's craniotomy forceps. implements. At the best an operator can only succeed with them in picking away the bones of the roof and sides of the skull. After his most tedious efforts the bones at the base remain un- broken (see Fig. 3). (2) Cephalotripsy.—It was an important ad- vance that was made by Auguste Baudelocque when he contrived the cephalotribe. This is in essence a pair of powerful forceps provided with a screwing apparatus at the handles, by means of which the blades that embrace the head are brought together so closely as to crush and com- press the whole skull. Variously modified, it was for many years the favourite implement all over the Continent for the head-reduction of the infant. But its use was attended with some serious drawbacks. The introduction of the thick blades into the cavity of the uterus carried with it the risk of the entrance of septic germs into the bruised maternal tissues. Whilst it effectually crushed the bones in flattening the head in one diameter, it lengthened it in another. It proved so unsatisfactory as an extractor that some obstetricians used it only to crush the head by repeated applications if need were, and left the expulsion to the natural efforts, or had recourse to turning. (3) Cephalotomy.—The proposals to displace the cephalotribe by instruments that would cut the head in slices did not approve themselves to the general profession. The Labitom of von Ritgen was never used outside Giessen. The Saw-forceps of van Huevel made with a single chain-saw had for a time some vogue in Belgium, and stimulated Tarnier to construct and use one with a double chain that could cut the head into three sections; but they have both fallen into desuetude. The Wire-ecraseur proposed for use by Robert Barnes is not easily applied. (4) Cranioclasin.-—In 1858 Sir J. Y. Simpson, examining the head of a child that he had extracted with unusual facility after fracturing the bones with a Murphy's craniotomy forceps, found that the occiput had been broken close to the foramen magnum. He recognised the necessity for facilitating the process in every case by fracturing the base of the skull, and contrived the Cranioclast for the purpose. Modified by Cai'l Braun von Fernwald, the cranioclast has almost everywhere superseded the cephalotribe (Fig. 4). In using it the solid blade is introduced into the opening made in the vault; the fenestrated blade is applied out- side the head, preferably over the occiput, the Fig. 4.—Carl Brauu's cranioclast. point of it carried as far as possible to the neck of the child. With a twisting movement the bones in the grasp of the blades are broken, and with the hold that has been obtained the operator makes an effort at extraction. If the head does not offer to descend easily he may relax the grasp and apply the outer blade to the side of the head or over the frontal bones, so as to fracture the skull more effectually. (5) Basilysis.—When it is remembered that the firm, unyielding base of the skull is the greatest obstacle to the escape of the head, it