307 LACRIMAL APPARATUS, DISEASES OF nasal duct, which opens into the nose beneath the inferior turbinate bone, in structure, char- acter of secretion, and pathological relations, is to be properly regarded as an accessory part of the nose rather than of the eye. Both sac and duct are formed of a fibro-elastic material, with a well-developed mucous mem- brane lined by an imperfectly ciliated columnar epithelium. The lower part of its duct has numerous glands similar to those in the meatus of the nose. The sac lies in a deep groove formed by the superior maxilla and ethmoid bone; the bony canal lodging the nasal duct is completed by the inferior turbinate bone. The internal palpebral ligament, which can be felt as a hard cord running inwards from the nasal commissure of the lids, is the best guide to the sac; an abscess in the latter always points just below this ligament, but the blind, dilated end of the sac reaches a little distance above it. The direction of the naso-lacrimal passage is downwards, backwards, and a little outwards, which it is of importance to recollect when passing a probe. The diameter of the sac is 5 to 6 mm., that of the nasal duct 3 to 4 mm., and the narrowest part is usually at the j unction -of the sac and duct. An empyema of the frontal sinus may burst into the sac, and an empyema of the maxillary sinus into the nasal duct. DiSEjiSES OF THE Gland.—The lacrimal gland possesses almost complete immunity in inflam- matory or other affections of the eye; even in gonorrhoeal and other severe conjunctival in- flammations the gland escapes. The accessory part, however, does occasionally become enlarged in phlyctenular ophthalmia, acute trachoma, panophthalmitis, and some other conditions, and is recognised as a small, very soft swelling at the upper and outer part of the superior lid, ■even when one cannot make it out by touch. Diseases, and still more injuries of the main mass of the gland are of rare occurrence, from its protected position and its multiple system of •ducts. Stabs of the upper lid may reach and wound the gland, and if healing is delayed, and especially if suppuration occurs, a fistulous opening may be left from which tears escape. True lacrimal fistula has also been met with as a congenital condition, and is recognised as an opening in the upper lid so minute as to be easily overlooked, the tears exuding in very small quantities, and evaporating almost as soon as they escape. A cure is best effected by passing a needle armed with a silk suture through the opening in the skin, and bringing it out in the upper and outer part of the conjunctival sac; the other end of the suture hanging from the opening in the skin is then threaded on another needle, passed through the lid near the fistula, and brought out in the conjunctival sac near the other. The two ends are tied together and allowed to cut their way through. The effect of this is to make the tears find their way into the conjunctival sac instead of through the opening in the skin, which now closes of itself, or will do so if the edges be freshened and brought together by a suture. Dislocation of the gland is very rare, but has been met with as the direct result of a blow, from a cicatrising wound of the upper lid, and still more rarely as a spontaneous condition. The presence in the outer and upper part of the eyelid of a movable subcutaneous lobulated swelling about the size of an almond, renders the diagnosis easy. Replacement is sometimes possible and should be tried, for it is occasion- ally followed by cure; but excision through an incision in the skin is mostly required. Chalky concretions, called dacryoliths, are sometimes found blocking one or more of the excretory ducts, and must be removed through the conjunctiva as they give rise to a good deal of pain. Injlammation of the lacrimal gland occurs in an acute and in a chronic form, the former lead- ing to suppviration, the latter to hypertrophy. The acute form is almost always confined to one side, and is usually met with in delicate children as the result of a blow or from exposure to cold. It is ushered in by a general febrile condition ; there is a feeling of tension, and sometimes very severe pain, shooting to the brow, temple, and even to the upper jaw. The lymphatic glands of the neck are enlarged, sometimes to such an extent as to cause cyanosis from pressure on the jugular vein. There is a painful, tender, dusky red swelling of the outer part of the upper lid, which hangs down and covers the cornea. The upper lid is greatly thickened and enlarged, causing obliteration of the natural folds; the veins are engorged and tortuous, and even some of the arteries may be seen and felt to pulsate. The ocular conjunctiva shows all grades of in- flammation, even to most severe serous chemosis protruding from between the lids. The globe is somewhat protruded and dis- placed, not directly forwards, but towards the lower and nasal side, and its movements are always restricted upwards and outwards, al- though they may be unimpaired in other directions. In tenonitis the displacement is straightforward, and the movements of the globe are restricted in all directions. The gland itself cannot be felt (compare with the chronic form), on account of the swollen and infiltrated condition of the lid and tissues underneath, and probably also because the gland is already in a state of suppuration, and forms no distant tumour. Hot fomentations followed by an incision when fluctuation occurs, or even before we can be certain of this, is the best course; it is useless to try abortive treatment in acute cases. It will be noticed that the escape of pus is