304 LABOUR, OPERATIONS I—CESAREAN SECTION sponge should be applied, and very slight com- pression will suffice to overcome any tendency to relaxation. Should the peritoneal edges gape at any points, a few superficial fine sut- ures should be inserted to bring the margins together. The performance of hysterectomy for bleeding is bad treatment, and indicates that the operator has lost his nerve, as pressure with a - warm sponge with both hands never fails to secure thorough contraction. Several operators advise the introduction of a drainage tube through the cervix and vagina, and the leaving it there to act as a drain. Nothing could be worse. Of course, it is the procedure of a surgeon ; but every one who has practised midwifery knows that the presence even of a clot in the uterus may lead to serious haemorrhage. Such a body as a tube, if not expelled, would induce haemorrhage, distension of the uterus, and bursting of the incision, with speedy death of the patient. This is no mere theory, but is what has actually taken place where drainage has been resorted to. On no condition should the uterine cavity be washed out or medicated in any way; the less the parts are interfered with the better. After the ligatures have been cut short, the next step is to ligature and divide the Fallopian tubes with aseptic silk in order to prevent future conception. Of course, the consent of the patient for this procedure should have been obtained beforehand. Two ligatures are tied upon each tube, which is then divided between those points; this method is effective, and leads to no complications nor bad results, nor is menstruation interfered with. Next, the cavity is cleaned by the removal of all clot, etc., and the uterus replaced. The external wound in the parietes is closed in the usual way with silk-worm sutures. The vagina should now be cleansed of all clot and sponged out, after which an antiseptic pad should be applied to the vulva. The wound should be dusted with iodoform, and a few layers of gauze placed over the wound. This should be secured with plaster, both to prevent slipping of the dressing and strain on the sutures, in case of sickness or cough. A sheet of Gamgee is next applied, and then the bandage. The after-treatment consists of sips of warm water, say a tea-spoonful every fifteen minutes for twelve or twenty-four hours, after which milk and soda may be given in increasing quantities. For a few nights a half-grain morphine suppository is given. The urine should be drawn off" every six hours for two or three days, care being taken to thoroughly cleanse the parts before doing so. On the fourth day two tea-spoonfuls of glycerine in a couple of ounces of soapy water is administered as an enema, and, if necessary. some slight aperient by the mouth. The bowels having been moved, the patient is allowed chicken soup, fish, eggs, beef-tea, etc. If the child is to be nursed, it may be put to the breast on the second or third day. The abdominal sutures may be I'emoved in from ten to fourteen days, and the patient allowed to rise at the end of four weeks. She should always wear an abdominal belt, and should be warned against kneeling when scrub- bing floors, as this is apt to induce hernia from pressure and stretching of the cicatrix. In review, it may be explained that rupture of the membranes, either intentionally or by labour, means a contraction of the uterine wall, and as a consequence a greater wounding of the uterine tissue in order to secure a sufficient opening to extract the child. Some operators, instead of using manual or pessary compression to prevent bleeding when opening the uterus, make use of an elastic ligature. The uterus is first everted, and the elastic ligature then passed round the cervix. This not only neces- sitates a much larger abdominal incision, but also induces asphyxia of the foetus, and causes inertia of the uterus, as the organ does not so readily respond to kneading. Its use is, therefore, conducive to haemorrhage. Veit, Doleris, and Pajot have blamed it for causing death from haemorrhage, and Zweifel, Sanger, and Lusk have also noticed this complication. Caruso advised the early removal of the ligature. Another way of dealing with the uterine incision is by Sanger's method. In this pro- cedure the muscular wall of the uterus is closed with from ten to fifteen sutures which approxi- mate to, but do not include, the mucosa; and between each suture two superficial sutures are inserted to imite jjeritoneum to peritoneum. Previously the peritoneum was separated from the muscularis, and a wedge-shaped piece of muscularis removed from each side, the base of the wedge being outermost. This done, the peritoneal flaps were folded into the wound and secured by the superficial stitches. Such a detailed process is quite iinnecessary, as the sutures, as recommended by Cameron, secure perfect apposition, not only of the muscular tissue, but also of the peritoneum. In fact, most operators now make use only of eight or ten deep sutures, and reserve superficial sutures to secure contact where there is any gaping between the stitches. Such unevenness can be readily avoided by beginning in the middle and working towards each end, and by taking care to keep the sutures at regular intervals. Porro's Modification.—The fatal results follow- ing the early Caesarean section led to a modi- fication of the operation. It had been found by experiment that the uterus in pregnant rabbits could be removed with better results