LABOUR, INJURIES DURING 275 superficial sloughs are unimportant. If the bladder has been laid open by a slough, it would be noticed that in from four to ten days urine would be coming away from the vagina, and the bladder would be found to be more or less empty. The exact position would probably not be known till some time after the fistula was diagnosed, for a satisfactory examination could hardly be made till the parts had involuted. Prophylaxis.—All such cases of fistula, the result of delayed labour, are now relatively rare, owing to the forceps being used earlier, and to the adoption of other measures to prevent undue delay. Treatment.—This would have to be delayed, and the fistula treated by a secondary operation after its precise character had been determined. To surgically treat a fistula, due to pressure, immediately after the separation of the slough, would certainly prove a failure, owing to the induration and lack of vitality round the margins of the wound, and the presence of some cystitis. Time should also be given for the wound to cicatrise, for it invariably gets smaller, and the operation therefore becomes less severe. In the meantime, all that can be done is to adopt some suitable paliative treat- ment, for, although a radical operation is useless during the puerperium, much relief can be afforded to the patient, and septic consequences can usually be averted. The vagina should be douched with some sedative solution, such as borax (dr. 2 to three pints), lysol (dr. 1 to three pints), or diluted Condy's fluid, and some antiseptic wool or wool - pads can be kept constantly applied to the vulva, or a suitable urinal can be worn. Women accus- tomed to wear diapers at menstruation do not object to such appliances as much as one would expect. In a few cases patients do not need to wear anything when recumbent, but all depends upon the exact position and extent of the fistula. Six weeks after the labour an operation may be performed. (See " Vagina.") C. Acute Inversion of the Uterus Definition . . . . . .275 Morbid Anatomy . . . . .275 Causation . . . . . .275 Evidence and Diagnosis .... 276 Prognosis , , . . , .276 Prophylaxis . . , . . .276 Treatment ...... 276 Definition.—This form of uterine displace- ment is a more or less complete turning "inside out and upside down " of the body of the uterus, so that its lining membrane becomes external and its fundus the lowest portion of the body. The fundus may be "completely" or only " partially " inverted. Morbid Anatomy.—When the fundus becomes completely inverted it draws down with it, into the peritoneally-invested cup, part of the broad ligaments, with their pampiniform plexus of veins, the round ligaments, the ovarian liga- ments, and sometimes the ovaries themselves, with part of the Fallopian tube, and more rarely part of the omentum. These so completely fill up the hollow that the physical examination may fail to feel the cup-like depression which theoretically exists. Prolapsus of the uterus or vagina may be also present. In such cases the fundus, even when the placenta is not attached, may be quite outside the vulva. Causation.—This accident is said to occur once in 200,000 labours, and may be both artificially and spontaneously produced. Inversion cannot occur if the uterus is contracted. The body of the uterus must be completely relaxed. (a) Artificial inversion may be caused in two ways:—(1) Forcible expression during uterine relaxation.—Expression of the placenta during the third stage of labour should only be practised during a "pain," otherwise indenta- tion of the fundus may be induced. Partial inversion seems to temporarily paralyse that portion of the uterus, so that when a " pain" arrives the whole uterus contracts, except the inverted fundus, which is grasped and driven downwards in the line of least resistance, and a complete inversion may ensue. This may take place during the next pain, or after the lapse of some hours, or even some days after a partial inversion has been produced. (2) Traction on the umbilical cord during uterine inertia. The fundus, with its adherent placenta, may be thus partially inverted, and this may be converted into a complete inversion either by "expression" or by further traction on the cord, or spontaneously. {b) Spontaneous inversion may occur in several ways. As already stated, a partial inversion may be converted spontaneously into a complete inversion, but there is no doubt also that an inversion may be induced spontaneously ab initio. A short umbilical cord, or a cord ren- dered relatively short by being wrapped round the foetus, may be the primary cause, and is, according to Herman, the way in which a considerable number of cases of inversion are brought about. An inert fundus, with a pla- centa partly separated, and hanging down into the body of the uterus, may be inverted exactly as a chronic inversion is produced by a fibroid polypus. Increase of intra-abdominal pressure, by the patient coughing, sneezing, or "bearing down," encourages inversion to become complete if cupping has been begun, and, according to some observers, this is thought to be sufficient to spontaneously produce the initial partial inversion.