44 IRIS AND CILIARY BODY weeks repeated for the same period. During the interval and subsequently mercury should be taken by the mouth. Method of Inhalation.—Every other night the patient is subjected to the vapour of calomel mixed with steam. Seated on a cane-seated chair, and covered with blankets, he is sur- rounded by the vaporised calomel, and made to sweat profusely by the accompanying steam. Twenty to sixty grains of calomel should be used each time, and the baths continued till just short of salivation. They should then be stopped, and mercury continued to be given by the mouth. Method of Injection. — The bichloride or biniodide is used for this purpose, not more than a quarter of a grain being injected into the skin or the muscles at each time. Some surgeons largely use and speak highly of intra- venous injections followed up by inunctions. Lately Darier has used subconjunctival injections of bichloride of mercury, 1 in 1000, for all deep-seated inflammatory conditions of the eyes, not necessarily syphilitic in origin. Much pain, however, follows in many cases, an adhesive inilammation being set up. It has been found by Mellinger and others that subconjunctival injections of a 2 per cent solution of chloride of sodium have the same beneficial result without any ill effects. Their action depends probably on the acceleration to the lymph current which they prodvice, and not on any antiseptic or antisyphilitic properties the in- jection may have. Vide article "Gout," vol. iii. p. 512. I have seen several cases of syphilis treated by this recent method, apparently with very satisfactory results. If equally useful, the advantages, from convenience, etc., are very considerable. Method by the Mouth.—In the treatment of syphilitic iritis this method is usually postponed till the patient has been well brought under the influence of mercury. It may then be con- tinued either in the form of the pill, three grains of blue pill being prescribed, or as a mixture containing the liquor hydrargyri perchloridi with or without iodide of potassium. Treatment should be continued at intervals for eighteen months. (h) Rheumatic iritis should be treated with salicin or salicylates combined witli alkalies. Iodide of potassium is often useful. Turkish baths may be of great service. (c) The pain in gouty iritis is sometimes completely relieved by colchicum ; at other times tliis drug appears to be quite inert. Alkalies should be freely used and the diet carefully attended to. (d) Tvhermlous irido-ci/ditis is rarely amen- able to treatment, either local or constitutional; it should be treated by excision of the globe, especially where no other symptoms of tubercle can be discovered in the body. (e) Gonorrhceal iritis should be treated with potassium iodide by the mouth, together with local applications to the urethra if any gleet is present. (4) Treatment of the Complications and Sequelce.—For annular posterior synechia, which leads to secondary glaucoma, an iridectomy must be performed to put the anterior and posterior chambers again into communication. For total posterior synechia a similar operation is usually indicated, but the prognosis is much less favourable ; extraction of the lens is often necessary. Chronic recurrent iritis is often cured by an iridectomy. Isolated posterior synechise should be left alone, though formerly they were operated iipon by either Passavant's or Streatfield's method (corelysis). Operations on the Iris.—Iridectomy consists in the excision of a portion of the iris. This operation is performed for various affections of the eye ; as a preliminary stage to cataract extraction, for glaucoma, occasionally for piu'u- lent infiltration, and in certain forms of ulcer of the cornea, in many cases of chronic and recvxrrent iritis and irido-cyclitis, and for optical purposes, as in central corneal opacities and stationary lamellar and anterior polar cataracts. The instruments required are—(1) speculum ; (2) fixation forceps ; (3) a bent triangular keratome or a Graefe's cataract knife, or a bent broad needle; (4) iris forceps, or a Tyrrel's hook ; (5) iris scissors ; and (6) a curette. The operation varies in detail according to the object for which it is performed. The first stage consists in opening the anterior chamber by an incision through the sclerotic close to or at the sclero-corneal junction; the second, in seizing, drawing out, and excising a portion of the iris; the third, in the " toilet" of the wound. When the operation is intended for the relief of glaucoma, or for the purpose of subduing or preventing inflammatory affections, the iridectomy should be made upwards, the coloboma being situated beneath the upper lid. In many cases, such as cataract, chronic glaucoma, and opacities of the cornea, the anaesthetic action of cocaine is suflicient; but where inflammation is actually present, as in iritis, subacute and primary glaucoma, a general anajsthetic is necessary. The patient must lie on a firm table or couch of such a height that his head reaches the level of the umbilical region of the surgeon, who stands behind the patient. The eyelids are kept open by a spring-stop speculum, and the globe is held steady by seizing the conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissue with fixation forceps at the part im- mediately opposite to that at which the incision is about to be made. A bent triangular keratome is then inserted into the sclerotic at from 1 to 2 mm. from the edge of the cornea, and pushed downwards across the anterior chamber, until the wound thus made is from 6 to 8 mm. wide