LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 523 mass, which when once seen can never be forgotten. Although putty-like in consistence in parts, it is of a whitish colour, pearly white towards the interior, a duller shade pervading in the peripheral portions; it resembles a mass of wet kaolin or china clay of jelly-like con- sistence. Plates of calcareous material may be found in the laminated mass, and pieces of the wall of the mother cyst may be found here and there. Echinococcus multilocularis is described in vol. iv. pp. 261-264. Diagnosis.—By a process of exclusion other ailments can be eliminated, and by drawing off and examining the contents a positive conclusion may be arrived at. Hydatids in the supra- hepatic region of the liver have to be diagnosed from suprahepatic abscesses, from pleuritic effusion, or from hydatids of the base of the right lung. Intrahepatic hydatid growths may be mistaken for intrahepatic abscess or for malignant tumours. In fatty, amyloid, and syphilitic enlargements of the liver, and in hypertrophic cirrhosis, the history will serve to eliminate any possibility of confusion. Hydatids in the subhepatic region have to be diagnosed from subhepatic abscess, enlarged gall-bladder, hydronephrosis, renal or ovarian cysts, aneurysm, and phantom tumour. Treatment.—Although hydatids of the liver may disappear by " spontaneous cure," may find exit by several channels, and the patient recover, no medical practitioner is justified in waiting for such a result. The modern treat- ment consists in aspiration, incision, suture of the sac to the margins of a parietal incision and clearing out the contents, or complete extirpa- tion of the tumour. Aspiration of the contents of the hydatid can be used for both diagnostic and curative purposes, and puncture by the fine needle of an aspirator is attended by infinitesimal danger. The fluid removed thereby may serve to establish the character of the tumour, and when a small quantity of the fluid is withdrawn the tumour may shrink and the whole cyst disappear. The dangers of tapping a hydatid are :—(1) Escape of the contents into the peritoneal cavity. That the slow and it may be intermittent escape of a small quantity of hydatid fluid into the peri- toneum causes untoward symptoms is improb- able, and treatment by aspiration alone may still find a place in surgery. (2) Suppuration may be induced in the hydatid; this is a real danger. The removal of the fluid leaves behind a dead mass within the liver, which may at any moment become septic. Manson's Method of treating Liver Abscess applied to Hydatids.—The operation is fully described under Liver Abscess, and the method recommends itself. Laparotomy and Removal of the Contents of Cyst Walls.—In 1871, Lindemann improved upon Volkmann's method by stitching the margins of the wound in the liver to the wound in the abdominal wall, and all subsequent methods of operation have been mere modifica- tions of Lindemann's principle. At the present time the plan recommended by Godlee is most in vogue. Operation.—A vertical incision three or four inches in length is made over or just above the most prominent part of the tumour, and it is carried down to the peritoneum. All bleeding is arrested, and the peritoneum is then incised for almost one inch and the finger introduced. The presence of adhesions is felt for. Where there are no adhesions the escape of hydatid contents into the peritoneal cavity can be guarded against in one of three ways:—The opening of the cyst deferred for a few days or until sufficiently firm and extensive adhesions are apparent. Should suppuration have occurred the cyst must be incised at once, and every surgeon prefers to open the tumour, whatever its state, at one sitting. (2) By packing the peritoneal surface with sterilised sponges or gauze so thoroughly that all passage into the peritoneum is blocked. The cyst may then be incised sufficiently to allow the contents to escape. When the first rush of fluid has sub- sided a small sterile sponge with string attached is passed into the cavity of the sac. It there expands, and on pulling the string the sponge blocks the exit of fluid until the margins of the wound in the liver or adventitious capsule are stitched to the wound in the abdominal wall. The wound in the cyst wall is hereafter enlarged, and the finger, or a sponge on a holder, may be introduced to loosen adhering brood capsules and daughter cysts. (3) When practicable, the liver may be stitched to the parietal perito- neal wound by a double row of sutures after the method recommended by Mr. Godlee for liver abscess. The further treatment varies ; in the majority of instances the mother cyst is removed as well as the contents, and a large drainage-tube introduced. Bond of Leicester, in 1891, introduced the plan of removing the parasite, mopping out the cavity left, stitching (or leaving open) the wound in the liver, and sewing up the wound in the abdominal wall after the manner of an ovariotomy wound. Bond met with excellent results, and his method is likely to be followed. The results of operations on Lindemann's principle show the percentage of recoveries to be about 90 per cent. Liver of Sulphur. — Sulphurated potash, consisting of potassium thiosulphate, potassium trisulphide, and some potassium car- bonate. Lividity.—The state of being discoloured or livid ; livedo or livor ; as in such expressions as cadaveric lividity, the bluish discoloration