173 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM The passage consists of a short tube with a bent axis (axis of the parturient canal). The walls of this tube vary in rigidity at different cross-sections ; and the shape of its cross-section, taken at right angles to its axis at that level, varies at different points along its length in a definite manner. (See Physiology of Labour, p. 154.) The body to be expelled consists of two ovoids, the trunk and the head, connected by a joint which allows of almost " imiversal " movement. Of these two ovoids the head is comparatively rigid, the body very plastic. The head is therefore the more important of the two ovoids in the matter of mechanism. There is, however, another property of the foetus, and that is its elasticity. When the head is fully flexed, for instance, the child has a certain tendency towards extension ; and, on the other hand, when the foetus is extended there is a still greater tension produced in its body which makes for flexion. This curve- tension, as it may be called, has not received any attention from writers on obstetrics ; but it has, as will be shown, an important influence in the mechanism of labour. The elasticity of the child is mainly due to its muscular cone, and in a less degree to the ordinary elasticity of the bones, ligaments, fasciae, and other connective tissues. The fit of the child to the pelvis is a close one, even when the two ovoids of which it consists are accommodated to the passage in the most advantageous way. The most advantageous way is that, in the first place, the long axis of the child shall lie approximately in the axis of the passage— delivery in a transverse lie is impossible. This being obtained, there remain the sections of the foetus at right angles to the long axis to be adapted in the best way to the cross-sections of the passage—that is, the width of the shoulders has to go into that diameter of the canal where there is most room for it; and still more imperatively, the longest of those diameters of the head which lie across the canal must find themselves in the widest diameters of that part of the canal in which they lie, or labour will be delayed or arrested. Since the tube has its greatest diameters at one level transverse, at another oblique, and at another antero-posterior, these longest diameters of the head and trunk will, as the child descends, be constantly endeavouring to follow them. This endeavour on the part of the foetal mass to find the path of least resistance is the cause of the mechanism of labour. Presentations of the Vertex General Principles of Mechanism.—The move- ments of the child in the commonest kind of presentation, namely, that of the vertex, and in the position in which the head lies with the occi- put directed forwards and to the left, will now be described in somewhat full detail. They will serve as a standard, and the points in which other mechanisms agree with or diff'er from this type can then be easily understood. The child is found in the cephalic lie, in about 96 per cent of all cases, at the end of pregnancy. Of cases in the cephalic lie, about 75 per cent are presentations of the vertex in the position just naentioned. There are three main reasons for this : they are (1) the position of the centre of gravity of the foetus at term; (2) the relative shapes of the foetus and the uterus; (3) the movements of the foetus in the uterus. (1) The centre of gravity of the child at term is found to lie about the level of the shoulders, rather to the right side on account of the liver lying to the right, and nearer to the back than to the front of the thorax. A foetus suspended in a fluid of its own mean specific gravity would thus tend to lie slightly on its right side with its head downwards. The uterus is inclined to about an angle of 60° with the horizon when the woman is in an upright posture, and, in addition, its anterior surface is rotated slightly round to the right. Thus the left side of the front of the lower segment of the uterus is the lowest part of its cavity; in consequence the head tends to fall into this part, with tlie right shoulder in front of it—that is, into the position above mentioned. The natural attitude of the head is one of partial flexion, and so the vertex comes to lie lowest. (2) Relative Shapes of the Foetus and the Uterus.—The widest part of the uterus is the fundus, and the widest part of the foetus is its breech, and so the breech tends to lie in the fundus. As a proof of the value of this as a cause it may be mentioned that in the case of hydrocephalic children, in which the head-end is the larger, the child lies with its breech downwards far more commonly than where it is normally shaped. Also, it will be remembered that when the uterus is relaxed there is a well-marked convexity of the posterior uterine wall forwards, owing to the projection forwards of the lumbar spine. The normally flexed child has its concavity on its ventral surface, and, in consequence, obtains the most comfortable fit to the uterus by lying with its dorsal surface forwards. (3) The movements of the foetus in the uterus are mainly of its legs ; and in any case the legs, acting at the end of the body, will have more influence than the arms in bringing about changes of lie. The child up to the seventh or even the eighth month is able to change its lie without much difficulty, as is well known. If we take a child lying with its feet down- wards, any sudden extension of its lower limbs will bring them against the brim of the pelvis