KERNIG'S SIGN 89 flexors of the knee ; in other words, when the thigh is flexed on the abdomen the leg cannot be extended on the thigh. See Meninges of the Cerebrum {Acute Simple Meningitis, Symptoms). Ketones.—Oxidation products obtained from the secondary alcohols {e.g. secondary propyl alcohol), to which they therefore stand in the same relationship as the aldehydes to the primary alcohols. See Physiology {Organic Chemistry). KhOSam.—The kernel of a small fruit found in China, the Straits Settlements, and Australia, identical with the Brucea Siimatrana of Borneo. The active principle seems to be a glucoside {Khosamine) which acts as a cathartic and cholagogue; it has been used in dysentery (dose, 10 grs. of the powdered seeds) and other maladies as a hsemostatic. Kiding^a Pepo. See Dengue. Kidney. Physiology op 89 Surgical Affections of . . .93 Morbid Affections of. See articles "Nephritis," " Urtemia," "Urine," etc. See also Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of {Kidney); Adrenal Glands(i¥rt%?iawi5 Tiimours, Diagnosis); Alcohol {Morbid Changes in Chronic Alcoholism, Kidney); Anaemia, Pernicious {Mor- bid Anatomy, Kidneys); Anaesthesia, General Physiology of {Effect on Kidneys); Bed-Sores {Causes, Kidney Affections); Blackwater Fever {Morbid Anatomy); Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of ; Colic {Diagnosis, Renal Colic); Cystoscope ; Eclampsia {Pathological Anatomy, ^Etiology); Embryology ; F(etus and Ovum, Development of {Foetal Kidneys) ; H^ematuria ; Heart, Affections of Myocardium and En- docardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease, Cyanotic Kidneys and Renal Infarcts); Hydatid Disease {Echinococci of the Urinary System); Lardaceous Degeneration {Morbid Anatomy, Amyloid Kidney); Leucocyth^emia {Morbid Anatomy, Kidney); Liver, Diseases op {Constricted Lobe, Diagnosis); Lung, Tuberculosis op {Compli- cations, Uro - Genital); Medicine, Forensic {Rupture of Kidney) ; Nephritis ; Pancreas, Diseases op {Pancreatitis, Diagnosis); Physi- ology, Excretion {Secretion of Urine): Post- mortem Methods {Kidneys', Examination); Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases {General Foetal Dropsy); Pyuria; Spleen, Surgery of {Wandering Spleen, Diagnosis); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases {Secondary to other Diseases); Syphilis {Visceral); Therapeutics, Health Resorts; Trades, Dangerous {Lead- Poisoning) ; Visceral Pain. Physiology of the Kidney Structure.—The kidney possesses two capsules : externally, a loose covering containing a large number of fat cells embedded in loose connective tissue, and within this a strong tunica fibrosa, composed of ordinary white and yellow elastic fibres, which forms a close covering for the organ, turning in at the hilum where it is continuous with the sheaths of the vessels. The latter covering can be comparatively easily and completely peeled off. Underneath this and lying on the surface of the kidney there is a network of smooth muscle fibres. If a longitudinal section be made through the organ from the outer border to the hilum, the glandular tissue can be easily recognised as consisting of two parts, cortical and medullary, the former reddish brown in colour, covering the latter and sending prolongations between the bases of the pyramids (Bertin's columns), the latter pi'esenting a paler striated appearance, and arranged in the form of pyramids with the apices of the latter towards the hilum. Each pyramid is seen to be made up of a papillary part with indefinite striations and a boundary zone where the stria; are well marked. Each papilla projects into a short tube, the calyx ; and these, of which there are eight to ten, unite to form two or three infundibula, and these finally form the pelvis of the ureter. As the striations pass out towards the bases of the pyramids they become more widely separated by blood-vessels, and are continued outwards as the pyramids of Ferrein almost but not quite to the surface of the cortex. Course of the Urinary Tubules.—The con- voluted tubules constitute the principal part of the cortex, in most animals forming about \ to i of the length of the entire urinary tube. They constitute the true secreting as opposed to the collecting part of the glandular tissue, and arise from Bowman's capsule which surrounds the glomerulus. There is a short and narrow con- striction where the capsule passes into the proximal tubule, the direction of the latter being at first towards the surface of the organ, so that, as one may see on microscopic examina- tion, the superficial zone is free from glomeruli. The tube becomes very convoluted and gradually passes downwards towards the medulla. Some distance before the medulla is reached the tube becomes straighter, although still maintaining a spiral course, and when the limiting layer of the pyramid is reached it narrows down to a thin tube which pursues a straight course, in some cases almost completely down the papilla, usually, however, bending round either in the deeper parts of the marginal layer or in the superficial papillary region. It then proceeds upwards parallel to the descending limb as the ascending limb of Henle's loop. This limb widens out either at the bend or shortly before or after the loop, attaining about double the diameter of the descending limb, and after a more or less irregular course passes into the distal convoluted tubule, which is much shorter