6 INVALID FEEDING 5. Care must be taken that the rectum does not become loaded with fseces. A prehminary washing out the bowel with tepid normal saline solution (75 per cent. NaCl) at least once in twenty-four hours is very desirable. 6. A few drops (5 to 20 mins.) of tinct. opii given in every second enema is useful when the enema is retained with difficulty, and also as a prophylactic measiire. 7. Not more than one enema every six hours should be given if possible. Recourse may be had to the use of various forms of nutrient suppositories. Of these there are many excellent forms of prepared nutrient suppositories now in the market, which can be used to alternate with the home-made peptonised materials. It is advisable to bear in mind that the sediment from some of these preparations may possess rather more irritating properties than home-made preparations. Hence the great value of the occasional douching of the bowel above referred to. Milk A thorough luiderstanding of the chief points to be attended to in the administration of milk is very important, as it is so often the chief and only agent we have to fall back upon in cases of illness. Good milk should contain 3 to 4 per cent, of fat. Its freshness and purity are essentials. Milk should be obtained fresh twice daily, and should never be kept standing in the sick- room. It very rapidly becomes contaminated by bad air and emanations of decomposing substances, and thus soon loses its freshness. It should be brought into the sick-room in very small quantities, and should be kept covered. Unless the source of the milk is beyond suspicion the milk should be boiled or scalded. Boiling most readily kills the germs, but unless a patient likes boiled milk it is almost impossible to get him to take it. Boiled Milk.—If the milk is to keep some time it must be boiled when quite fresh. This is best carried out in a lined saucepan that has been rinsed out with water, or in a milk-can standing in a saucepan of boiling water. The fire must be clear to avoid smoking. The milk must not be brought to the lioil too slowly or it will curdle ; and for the same reason it must only boil for a few minutes. As boiled milk that has been kept for several hours will not stand being boiled again, and hot boiled milk is more palatable than cold, therefore one has to fall buck on sterilising or Pasteurisation of the milk to avoid waste. This consists in keeping the milk at a temperature of about 158° F. for twenty minutes ; this is sufficient to kill most germs, but not the spores nor the lactic acid producing bacteria. This form of cooking does not alter the flavour of milk. There arc many sterilisers in the market, and the process is fully described under " Infant Feeding" (vol. iv. p. 389); but it can be roughly done for occasional use by placing the milk in a deep jug and standing it in a pan of water, the water standing at a higher level than the milk. Boil the water for twenty minutes, but do not let the milk boil. This does not alter the flavour of the milk. The amount of milk that should be taken per diem by a sick adult person in bed, when milk is the sole diet, is about four to five pints. The possible disadvantages attendant on milk administration are, as a rule, easily overcome. Of these the more important are difficulties in connection with its curdling. In health, the normal curd usually readily redissolves in the alimentary canal; in illness, either from the want of digestive agents, or over-acidity of the stomach, a hard firm curd may form, which is an irritant to the whole intestinal surface, producing pain, flatulence, diarrhcea, or consti- pation, and may be discharged unchanged in the stools in some cases. This hard curd may be very dangerous in intestinal ulceration, as after typhoid. To avoid this the milk may be simply diluted to a third or a half by some mineral water, such as potash, Seltzer, soda, or an aerated plain water; or it may be diluted, and the formation of anything but a fine granular curd prevented, by mixing the milk with barley or toast water. Clear Barley Water 2 oz. pearl barley (Robinson's). 1 pint boiling water. Rind of half lemon. Sugar to taste. Method.—Wash barley well and put into a jug with thinly peeled rind of a lemon, and a little sugar. Pour freshly-boiled boiling water on barley. Cover jug and stand till cold. Strain, and it is ready for use. Thick Barley Water (Barley can be used twice.) 2 oz. pearl barley. 2 pints cold water. Rind and juice half lemon. Sugar to taste. Method.—Wash the barley well, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it. Bring the water to the boil and then pour it away. Rinse the barley with cold water and rinse out the saucepan. (This is to blanch the barley, and if it were not done, the colour of the water would be dark.) Return the barley to the saucepan with two pints of cold water and the thinly peeled rind of half a lemon. Simmer slowly for two hours, strain, sweeten, and strain in lemon juice. This is served hot or cold. Time, two hours. Note.—Omit the lemon juice if it is to be mixed with milk. It is a refreshing drink and