IRIS AND CILIARY BODY 47 ^ See also " Eyeball, Injuries of," vol. iii. eviscerated without delay. Of the two a foreign Schlemm's canal. The appearance is that of two irregular pupils. Ophthalmoscopically the ciliary processes and the suspensory ligament of the lens, unless this has been ruptured, may be seen. The prognosis is not good, as the condi- tion is usually permanent, though few cases of spontaneous cure have been reported. The treatment should be iced compresses and atro- pine, which will help to approximate the edges of the gap. Traumatic aniridia or irideremia is the name given to total iridodialysis. The totally de- tached iris floats forwards and sinks to the lower part of the anterior chamber. Retroflexion and anteflexion are very rare dislocations of the iris, and are usually only partial. In retroflexion a part of the iris is doubled back so as to cover the ciliary processes, the suspensory ligament being ruptured with dislocation of the lens. The appearance differs from that of a coloboma, since the ciliary processes cannot be seen. In anteflexion the ciliary border of the iris is not only detached from the ciliary body, as in irido-dialysis, but is doubled forwards over the rest of the iris, the posterior pigmented layer coming into view. Penetrating wounds of the anterior part of the eyeball, unless quite small, are usually followed by prolapse of the iris, or of the ciliary body, or of both. Traumatic Prolapse of the Iris.—This is especially found in wounds of the sclero-corneal junction. Besides the prolapse of the iris the lens may be injured. Strict antiseptic pre- cautions should be taken in the treatment, The patient should be put to bed, and the wound carefully cleansed with perchloride of mercury lotion, 1 in 5000. The protruding portion of the iris must be excised, and the edges of the wound freed as much as possible from the iris to prevent the formation of anterior synechia. Atropine must be instilled into the eye three times a day. These cases often do well, very useful vision being regained. Should pyogenic organisms enter the eye, however, at the time of the injury or subsequently, suppurative iritis is very liable to be set up, followed by panoph- thalmitis. Traumatic prolapse of the ciliary body is of much more serious import. If only slight it may be possible to suture the sclerotic or conjunctiva over it, but on no account should it be removed, as vitreous will then escape. If at all extensive, with collapse of the eyeball, there is very great danger of sympathetic ophthalmitis being set up. Consequently the eye should be removed without delay. Perforation of the eyeball with a, foreign body in the iris or ciliary body is very serious, since it is imperative that the foreign body should be removed as soon as possible. If this is impossible the eye must be enucleated or body in the iris is much the more favourable. The diagnosis is seldom difficult. It is best removed through an incision at or near the periphery of the cornea. If magnetic, the nozzle of an electro-magnet should be introduced through the incision.^ If not magnetic, or if the electro-magnet fails to remove it, it is well to proceed very cautiously in attempting its removal by means of small forceps. In attempt- ing to remove a small particle of non-magnetic substance from the iris it is safer to remove a portion of the iris as well as the foreign body. The small iris forceps should be introduced through an incision of the cornea made in the vicinity of the particle as far away from the centre of the cornea as possible. Each blade of the forceps should then be made to grip the iris on either side of the particle, so as to include the latter in iris tissue; the forceps are then withdrawn through the incision, and the iris cut off with iris scissors as in ordinary iridectomy, when with good luck the particle will be found inside the excised portion of iris. The temptation is to try and pick the foreign body off the iris; but this usually fails, and causes immediate haemorrhage into the anterior chambers, so that the particle is obscured, and is probably detached from its first position. A foreign body in the ciliary body is often difficult to diagnose, and always extremely dangerous. Occasionally the history is suffi- ciently definite to make the diagnosis certain, but where this is not the case recourse must be had to other methods of investigation. During the last few years the discovery of the Rontgen rays has caused great strides to be made not only in the diagnosis of, but also in the exact localisation of foreign bodies in the eye and orbit. When thus localised the body must be cut down upon through the sclerotic with strict antiseptic measures, extracted, and the incision sutured. Another method, appli- cable, however, only to magnetic substances, is by the use of the large electro-magnet of Haab, which will often bring foreign })odies from the ciliary body into the anterior chambei", or even completely out of the eyeball. But in spite of these recent additions to the diagnosis and treatment, this condition remains very serious, and often necessitates evisceration or enucleation. Other results of a penetrating injury are implantation and serous cysts, which are referred to previously (p. 46). Irish Moss. — A seaweed having a slight nutritive value; it contains pectin (C32H4g028.4ll20). See Carrageen ; Invalid Feeding [Diabetes). Irisin. —A carbohydrate, somewhat similar to inulin, obtained from the rhizome of Iris