LABOUR, FAULTS IN THE PASSENGER 245 Hi/drothorax has very occasionally been re- corded as a cause of delay in labour. In con- junction with ascites it is of more frequent occurrence. Ascites has been observed in connection with other manifestations of syphilis, and also with new growths of various abdominal organs. It sometimes accompanies hydramnios. Apart from associated conditions it seldom obstructs labour. (Jldema of the fffitus may be caused by mal- formations of the foetal circulatory organs, or may be associated with placental disease. It has been described by Spiegelberg as occurring in cases of congenital syphilis. There may be overgrowth of connective tissue and skin in addition to distension of the cellular tissue by fluid. Distended Urinary Organs.—Owing todevelop- mental errors the urethra is sometimes imper- forate, when the foetal bladder may become enormously distended. The ureters may also be imperforate, when the proximal portions may form tense tumours of considerable size. Hydro- nephrosis occurs under similar circiuustances. Foetal Xew Growths.—The condition known as congenital cystic kidney may prodiice great enlargement of the foetal body, and may com- pletely obstruct labour. Ovarian cysts and various neoplasms of the liver, spleen, and pancreas have also been reported as having produced the same result. The occurrence of an " included foetus " within the body of another must be remembered as a possibility, also the sacral teratoma. The diagnosis of the above-mentioned con- ditions is, of course, extremely difficult, and indeed no definite conclusion as to the cause of obstruction can be arrived at, as a rule, until the difficulty has been overcome and the fa3tus extracted. The general principles upon which such cases should be managed are as follows :— The life of the child must not be considered as of any importance. The life of the mother must not be exposed to risk by delay in ending- labour. The means used to reduce the bulk of the foetus vary according to the circumstances of each case. The choice lies between multiple incisions into the foetal body, evisceration, and morcellement. A lai'ge pair of scissors will be found to be the most serviceable instrument; the blunt hook is also iiseful. The perforator and cranioclast may be employed as need arises. (e) Monstrosities : Acardiac Monsters.—In twin pregnancy, when one embryo is less developed than the other, the heart of the stronger may so overpower that of the weaker that blood is forced from the single placenta up the umbili- cal arteries of the weaker embryo. This so disturbs its foetal circulation that atrophy of the heart follows, the result being the produc- tion of an acardiac monster, whose lower parts, being nourished by the blood pumped into them through the umbilical arteries, grow rapidly, while the development of the upper portions is arrested for want of a proper blood-supply by the umbilical vein. The heart and upper parts are therefore represented by a mass of cellular tissue of low form not differentiated into organs, the lower limbs alone being recog- nisable as such. These monsters generally present by the feet, and are seldom large enough to cause serious difficulty during labour. Incisions may, however, be necessary, and occasionally the monster must be cut into several pieces and so removed. Anericephalic monsters are characterised by absence of the brain and of the vault of the skull. The face looks upward, the neck being short and broad. The body and limbs are often very large and well developed. The absence of a properly shaped cranium tends to favour errors in presentation, and thus difficulty in labour is often caused. In head cases the face presents, and the diagnosis demands care. The small head does not dilate the passages enough to admit of ready delivery of the large shoulders. Again, owing to its size and shape, the head affords a very poor grip to the forceps. Delivery is easiest head last, and turning should accord- ingly be the treatment adopted, when this is feasible. Exomphalos and Ectopia. Viscerum.—Imper- j feet development of the anterior abdominal wall causes some portion of the abdominal viscera to lie outside of the body of the foetus, occupying what is practically a dilated imibilical cord. In the extreme cases—those of complete ectopia viscerum—there is no cord at all, and the pla- centa forms one wall of the cavity in which the viscera are contained. In these cases the placenta must be separated before the child can be born, and considerable htemorrhage is likely to occur. ; Serious difficulty is met with in those cases in which the foetus is developed in a position of retroflexion ; the foetal attitude of flexion is lost and the back is hollowed, the upper portion of the foetus being extremely rigid as a rule. Under these circumstances it is necessary to manipulate the foetus in such a manner that the curve of its body shall correspond with the curve of the parturient canal, a manceuvre which is by no means easy.^ Cases in which a minor degree of exomphalos occurs rarely present serious diffi- culty (see also " Teratology "). Double Monsters.—Conjoined twins obstruct labour in ways so varied that no definite rules can be laid down for their delivery. For this reason a detailed description of their varieties forms no part of practical obstetrics. Herman's classification, however, is useful; he ai'ranges double monsters in three groups :— (1) Those in which one end of the foetus is double. ^ Jlunay Cairns, Trans. North of England Obstet. and Gyn. Soc, 1900.