KIDNEY 124 methods, the lumbar or extraperitoneal, and the abdominal or transperitoneal. Without entering into the discussion on the merits of these methods, it may be said that the latter is now almost universally confined to those cases where a tiunour of such size is present that removal by the loin becomes impracticable from want of space, and that such include only large renal growths. The technique is that of other abdominal operations, the incision being made through the linea semilunaris, or in such manner as to give freest access. The lumbar incision most usually adopted is an oblique one from the angle between the last rib and the erector spinje muscle, or a little below this and passing downwards and forwards towards the anterior superior iliac spine. The length of this incision varies with the extent of the operation. In an exploration of the kidney, or a nephrolithotomy, a small incision will often suffice; for the operation of nephrectomy more room will be required, and for the thorough examination of the ureter or its removal the incision should be prolonged down and forward, passing about an inch in front of the anterior superior iliac spine, and continued if necessary as far as the internal abdominal ring (Morris). In dividing the muscles the quadratus himborum need not be incised. The further steps are described under the different operations. With the object of avoiding the danger of a lumbar hernia Mayo Robson has applied M'Burney's method of treating the abdominal wall by incising the muscles in the direction of their fibres, and freely retracting them. The space for manipulation is, of course, curtailed, but often suffices for exploration or nephrolitho- tomy, and its advantages are great. Nephropexy.—Since Hahn in 1881 introduced the operation of fixing a wandering kidney, many methods have been tried ; some have been found trustworthy. The operation on a float- ing kidney differs from that on a movable one, in the fact that the peritoneal cavity must be opened, but in all other points the procedure is similar. The kidney is approached by the usual lumbar incision, and its fatty capsule exposed. The hand of an assistant guides the organ into its natural position, and the perinephritic fat, which is often atrophied, sometimes even wanting, is incised and torn through until the capsule proper of the kidney is laid bare. Albarran considers it of great importance to remove as nnich fat as possible, so as to allow the kidney to lie upon the muscular wall, and in this mancruvrc the fingers or forceps are used. The kidney is now very carefully examined and palpated to ascertain whether other conditions, such as stone, tubercle, etc., are present. Sutures, usually three in number, are then passed, at intervals of about half an inch, through the kidney substance, and on each side include the fatty capsule, the ti-ansversalis fascia, and the miiscles. These are tied firmly, and the superficial wound closed with or without drainage. The patient is kept recumbent for three or four weeks, and thereafter wears a belt for some months. Some authors consider it necessary to lay bare an area of kidney substance by splitting the capsule and turning back flaps, or by removing a portion of it (Tuffier, Jacobson, Kocher). Thick catgut may be used as suture material; but this is rapidly absorbed, and the part of the suture within the kidney substance is said to be more quickly destroyed than that without (Newman). Kangaroo tendon has also been used, but sterilised silk sutures are perhaps the best of any. Vulliet uses a strand of the erector spinse tendon torn from its upper attachment, but remaining attached below; this he passes through the muscles into the lumbar wound, beneath the kidney capsule, and back through the muscles again. The method is ingenious, although somewhat complicated, and is at present on probation. The living suture is said to have sloughed out, but this is an unusual occurrence. To ensure fixation of the kidney, Guyon, Albarran, and others pass the upper suture round the lowest rib, while others promote granulation and subsequent increased cicatrisa- tion of the wound by inserting a large drainage- tube or by packing with gauze. Nephrolithotomy.-—In this operation the kidney is exposed by the oblique lumbar incision, and the finger introduced into the wound is passed at once to the pelvis, which is carefully palpated for stone. No concretion being discovered, the anterior and then the posterior surface of the kidney is examined. Should no stone be revealed the lumbar incision is now extended downwards and for- wards, and the kidney freed from its surround- ings and drawn out into the wound, or merely into the wound if the pedicle is short and in- elastic. A further careful palpation between the finger and thumb may now discover a spot of increased resistance, but failing this the organ is incised along its convex border, the left finger and thumb of the siu-geon meanwhile controlling the bleeding by pressure on the renal pedicle. The finger is now introduced through the kidney substance into the pelvis, and a further search, if necessary, is made by introducing a small metal sound, the upper and lower calyces receiving especial attention. No stone having been revealed by these measures, a bougie is passed down the ureter to ascertain its permeability; nor shoidd this precaution be neglected after the discovery and removal of a renal or pelvic stone. The stone is removed, if possible, entire by means of the forefinger, aided, if need be, by