96 KIDNEY (5) Mesenteric tumours are median in position, and show a greater transverse than vertical mobihty, and are dull on percussion. Treatment.—(1) In some cases a floating kidney is discovered by the patient or medical attendant, but no symptoms which might arise from it are present. Here it is better to advise the patient to wear an abdominal belt, for symptoms may arise at a later date. Some- times the knowledge of possessing a movable kidney seems to excite uneasiness and dis- comfort, and eventually hypochondriasis. (2) In cases where symptoms are present a snugly fitting abdominal belt with an elastic cushion, with an air pad on its inner surface, and placed low down on the aflected side, should always be tried, and in thin patients a fattening diet will sometimes be foimd of advantage. Where the symptoms are controlled by the apparatus the patient will have the option of retaining it for life or having an operation performed. Where the symptoms are unaffected by wearing an abdominal belt, operation should be recommended. It will usually be welcomed by the patient as an almost certain means of escape from her sufferings. The operation of nephrorraphy or nephropexy is, in the hands of an experienced surgeon, practically without a mortality (1 to 2 per cent). In the majority of instances the cure is complete and permanent. (For technique, see Operations.) The success of the operation may be con- sidered in relation to the various symptoms. Pain disappears in 88 per cent of cases after nephrorraphy (Albarran). In the gastro-intestinal grou2J the troubles are less often completely relieved. It is in the nervmi-s type that treatment either by bandage or by operation has least effect. In Albarran's statistics only a small number were cured by nephrorraphy (14 per cent were im- proved, 36 per cent showed no improvement in their nervous symptoms). This author considers that if the cause be allowed to remain the con- dition will be aggravated, and he does not hesitate to recommend operation even in those nervous cases after orthopsedic measures have failed. (3) In cases where enteroptosis is present an abdominal belt should be worn, and no operation is called for imless some complication such as hydronephrosis arises. Kidney, In.juries of Injuries to so essential and so vascular an organ as the kidney cannot fail to be of grave moment. Even a slight contusion in one so predisposed may start a tuberculous affection, or induce chronic interstitial nephritis; whilst the severer lacerations, involving, as they frequently do, the superjacent peritoneum or surrounding abdominal viscera, result in heavy mortality. The practical consideration of the subject falls into two divisions, (rt) Subcutaneous lesions. {b) Open lesions. (a) Subcutaneous lesions of the kidney are more commonly met with in civil practice. They occur chiefly in men. The nature of the violence may be direct or indirect; its effects may be limited to the organ (simple lesion), or extend to the encasing structures or the sur- rounding viscera (complicated). Thus the peri- toneum covering the anterior surface may be split, or the adjoining ribs may be broken (5-5 per cent, Kuster) and their fractured ends buried in the kidney; or the liver, spleen, gut, even the diaphragm and lung, may be coin- cidently and extensively torn. Pathological.-—There may be mere subcapsular ecchymoses or laceration, or the capsule may be ruptured and deep multiple stellate fissures traversing the kidney substance even to the hilus may exist, or the kidney may be rent into two or more isolated pieces or reduced to a pulp. The fatty capsule and muscles are frequently torn, and in children up to the age of ten the peritoneum is very liable to be split open, because the prenephric subperitoneal fat is absent before that age (Poireault). The mortality rises from 30-4 to 80 per cent when the peritoneum is torn (Edel). Clinical Notes.—(i.) Anatomical limits of the hfemorrhage. If the renal capsule is ruptured the blood issues into the perirenal tissues until it is checked by the fatty capsule ; a firmish rounded tumour is thus formed. But if the fatty capsule is also torn, the haemorrhage, if severe, escapes along the cellular planes in every direction, and may reach the other side of the vertebral column, or extend to the thigh, groin, or scrotum. In exceptional adult cases, and in children under the age of ten, the blood may pour into the peritoneal cavity through a split in the peritoneum. If a deep calyx or the pelvis be opened, urine follows in the track of the blood. In the severer cases every element favouring virulent septicity is thrown in combination. An organ, whose r61e is to eliminate micro- organisms and toxins, is damaged ; adjacent to it is the colon harbouring myriads of pyogenic bacilli, and around it is a widespread undrained bog of fluid blood, clot, damaged tissues, and putrescible urine. Small wonder that the mortality is great (30 per cent simple, 70 per cent complicated), and that it is largely due to septicity. (ii.) The indication of renal htematuria con- sequent upon slight indirect violence. It is important to remember that pre-existing disease of the kidney may cause that organ to be easily lacerated. I always suspect the previous health of a kidney which bleeds on