157 LABOUK, PHYSIOLOGY OF ring, although she experiences a sensation of the uterine tumour having fallen somewhat; this is generally associated with a feeling of more easy respiration, which has been called the " lightening " before labour. Vaginal examina- tion at this stage will show the cervix to be shortened, but the OS externum usually closed in primiparse. In due course uterine contractions become stronger and are associated with painful sensa- tions ; the patient now passes into the active first stage of labour. During this stage a similar though increased action of the uterus continues; the body proper contracts no 2,-Fuii.time gravid uterus, ^nd retracts with a Primiparse, allowing cervix closed. The dotted line demonstrates Corresponding in- foetal ovoid. ^^.^^^^ -^^ tion on the lower uterine segment, which re- sults in a slight lengthening of this portion of the uterus and a gradual dilatation of the os. Should there be difficulty in the dilatation of the cervix through rigidity or other causes, an increased strain is thrown on the lower uterine segment, which causes it to become more and more lengthened and correspond- ingly thinned (see Rupture of Uterus, under Injuries DURING Labour). In consequence of the continued re- traction of the body proper with the as- sociated increased thickness of its walls, and at the same time the thin- ning of the lower uterine segment, there is formed a Fig. 3. —Commencing dilatation of i i- e A cervix before the actual onset ot Snarp line 01 ae- labour pains; stage of "lighten- marcation between ing " before labour. ,, these two portions of the uterus throughout its circumference; this is known as the " retraction ring " (Fig. 5). As is to be expected, the greater the retrac- tion and corresponding thinning of the lower uterine segment, the more marked does this ring become; its detection, therefore, may be of much practical value as evidence of im- pending rupture. With the completion of the first stage and full dilatation of the os there is an entire absence of any constriction formed by 4.—Commencement of first stage with early dilatation of OS externum. the cervix. The uterus and vagina now form one smooth, continuous canal—"complete canal- isation." During this stage but slight descent of the ovum occurs, the main effect hav- ing been the stripping of the cervix and lower uterine seg- ment off the lower pole. Full canalisation having been com- pleted, expulsion and descent of the ovum now take place, and the second stage of labour commences. The uterine force is now assisted by contractions of the I'm abdominal and thor- acic muscles, and by their combined efforts the child is expelled. The combined force has been variously estimated at from 17 to 57 lbs. to the square inch. The direction of the applied forces is downwards and backwards in the axis of the brim of the pelvis. Third Stage.— For the completion of this stage both the primary and secondary powers are called into action, though not in combination. By contraction and retraction of the uterus the placenta and membranes are separated and expelled from its cavity, their fur- ther expulsion and birth to be com- pleted by the un- aided action of the secondary powers. In the first stage Fig. 5.—Gravid uterus towards end of first stage, showing A, body proper retracted; B, lower uterine seg- ment lengthened; and K, retrac- tion ring. there is exercised on the ovum by the contractions of the body of the uterus a general pressure, which is transmitted at right angles to its surface. The entire superficial area of the ovum is therefore acted upon, except the lower pole, which is in contact with the passive lower uterine segment. Pressure is by this means conducted through the ovum upon the lower uterine segment, which yields and lengthens ; at the same time the uterus retracts, and, by dragging on the cervix, opens up its canal; into this the ovum bulges, and transmits pressure laterally on its walls, and thus assists in the further dilatation. Also, from the puUing-up of the cervix through retraction the cervix is further dilated, and the