KNEE-JOINT, INJURIES OF 149 will form; when completely niptiired the pulse will be absent in the dorsalis pedis and the posterior tibial arteries, and gangrene will set in. The popliteal nerves may be pressed upon, producing pain in the leg and foot, or one or other nerve completely torn across. Later Complications.—The vascular growing epiphysial cartilage when damaged is liable to be the starting-point of tuberculous disease or acute infective osteomyelitis. When the injury is compound, suppuration of the woimd with acute periostitis and necrosis (and suppurative arthritis) accompanied by septic phlebitis and pyaemia frequently result. After \mion has taken place there may be limited flexion at the knee from incomplete reduction of the deformity and permanent hyperextension ; fibrous or bony ankylosis, especially if there was previous sup- puration in the joint; shortening of the femur from impaired growth, and premature ossifica- tion of the epiphysial disc, with secondary spinal curvature. Diagnosis.—A partial separation is not easily distinguished from a contusion of the hone; tenderness localised along the epiphysial line is in favour of separation. In complete separation it may be necessary to administer an anfesthetic in order to make out the true nature of the injury. " Sometimes the displacement is so slight that the injury may easily escape notice, or be mistaken for a traumatic synovitis" (Howard Marsh). From a dislocation of the knee make out the exact relation between the patella and the head of the tibia and fibula, also the movements in the joint. Note the abnormal mobility. Dis- location of the knee is rare in young subjects, and the joint is usually stiff and fixed, flexion and extension being difficult—a skiagi'am will settle the difficulty. Supracondyloid fracture is rare in children, and the lower end of the iipper fragment is more pointed and oblique, and it is more distant from the joint. The characteristic soft cartilaginous crepitus is pathognomonic of separation if it be present. In favour of separation we have the age of the patient as a guide, the absence of obliquity of the fragments, the nearness of the fracture to the joint, the smoothness of the fragments, and the great difiiculty in effecting reduction. Prognosis.—This is a very serioiis injury. It is attended when compound by a high mortality from shock and pyaemia. The lUtimate result, however, in most cases that recover is good. Treatment.—The following is advocated by Hutchinson, jun., and Harold Barnard :— Reduction.—"Under complete anaesthesia an assistant makes steady but strong traction on the tibia in the line of the limb. This over- comes the upward pull of the qiiadriceps extensor and brings the epiphysis down to the line of the separation. " The operator then clasps his hands beneath the lower part of the thigh and draws it steadily upwards, gradually flexing completely the knee and hip joints, while the assistant still keeps up the traction on the leg. " This manoeuvre causes the epiphysis to move back upon the fractured surface of the diaphysis until it has reached its normal position, and further movement is prevented by the periosteum coming into contact with the anterior siirface. " A bandage is then applied around the thigh and ankle, fixing the knee at an angle of about 60°. " The limb is laid on its outer side on a pillow, and an ice-bag applied to the front of the knee to limit the effusion. This position is maintained for a fortnight. " After fourteen days the limb can be ex- tended mider gas if necessary, and put up in plaster in a position about 30° short of the straight line, or it may be put on a Maclntyre splint and gradually extended. The plaster remains on from a fortnight to three weeks, and a little massage restores movement." They conclude " that in extended position of the knee, even with an anaesthetic, reduction of the fragment is very difficult if not impossible. " With method of full flexion reduction is always easy, the treatment is short, and it is the rule to obtain perfect movement in the knee without shortening or deformity of the leg." Aspirate the joint if there be much effusion into it, and apply elastic pressure by means of a bandage. When compoimd, the greatest care must be taken to procure asepsis. The adjacent skin and the projecting diaphysis must be thoroughly cleansed with soft soap and water, next with spirit, and lastly swabbed with and the wound syringed out with 1 in 2000 perchloride or bin- iodide of mercury, and an antiseptic dressing applied. The wound may be completely closed, or a drainage-tube left in. A Hodgen splint will be found most convenient for redressing the wound, should this become necessary, without removing the apparatus. It may be necessary to resect the end of the diaphysis in order to effect reduction; this is rarely required in simple displacement. Ligature of the popliteal artery or vein, or both, may be necessary to control haemorrhage. When gangrene occurs the thigh must be am- putated through its lower third, but only after all efforts to save the limb have failed. Should suppurative arthritis supervene, the joint must be freely laid open on each side of the patella and drained. Amputation for pyaemia may become a necessity later. Separation of Upper Epiphysis of Tibia is rare, but its possible occurrence must be re- membered in any case of severe injury of the