394 LEUCOCYTH^MIA picture is that of an inundation of the blood with the elements usually found in the lymphatic glands. Mixed Forms.—In a very small proportion of cases the blood shows an apparent mingling of the myelsemic and lymphsemic characters. I have seen one case, and others have been recorded, where a pure myeltemia showed towards the end a large increase in the absolute and relative number of lymphocytes in the blood, and where post-mortem the organs con- tained as many lymphocytes as myelocytes. Effect of Intercurrent Affections.—It is im- portant to note the effect upon the blood of those intercurrent conditions, as, for instance, pneumonia and pleurisy, which produce a leucocytosis in normal blood. In rare cases in leucocythtemia such a complication produces no apparent effect on the blood; more frequently the total number of leucocytes remains unaltered, but a much larger proportion of them than before are polymorplio-nuclear neutrophiles. In the greatest number of cases, however, the total number of leucocytes is decreased, and may even descend far below the noi'mal, espe- cially as death draws near. Generally in such cases the proportion of polymorpho-nuclears is increased. Symptoms.—Except as regards the condition of the blood and the organs usually enlarged, ordinary myelsemia—which, apart from acci- dents, is always chronic—and chronic lymphse- mia do not differ in their symptoms. The patient's attention is usually caught either by the increased girth of the abdomen and the dragging pain from the enlarged spleen, by progressive weakness and dyspnoea, by the enlargement of glands, or by the occurrence of some hsemorrhage, most often from the nose. The disease is almost always thoroughly established by the time patients come under observation, so that its onset must be very insidious. The urgency, or otherwise, of the symptoms depends very largely on the amount of ansemia present. Cases in which this is slight may enjoy fair health, even although the number of leucocytes in the blood is very great, and the enlargement of oi-gans extreme. This enlargement may of course, however, give rise to symptoms by pressure on important organs ; and there is a special tendency to dropsy of various forms, and still more to hfemorrhage. In the alimentary system the main points to note are the frequent occurrence of stomatitis, of gastric and intestinal catarrh, with vomiting and diarrhoea, hsemorrhage from the bowel, enlargement of the liver, and either as a result of this or as part of a general dropsy, the occurrence of ascites. The heart is always enfeebled, and dyspnoea is a marked feature in the disease. All the murmurs and other cardiac changes due to ansemia are usually developed. Thrombosis of capillaries and small vessels from plugs of leucocytes is very common, and is one of the factors which cause heemorrhages to be so frequent. These occur most often from the mucous surfaces. Epistaxis is the most common, then perhaps hsemorrhage from the bowels, and then follow bleedings from the gums, the stomach, the kidneys, lungs, and uterus. The most serious is, of course, cerebral hsemorrhage, which is not infrequent, while hsemorrhage into joints, into muscles, into serous cavities, or elsewhere, may follow slight injuries or small operative procedures such as tapping the pleura or peritoneum. Hsemorrhage into the retina is often associated with collections of leucocytes visible by the ophthalmoscope during life, or discovered post-mortem. There are no special symptoms associated with the lungs, but bronchitis, pleurisy, pleural effusion, oedema of the lungs, and pneumonia are frequent com- plications or terminal phenomena. In every case there is at some time fever without apparent cause, very much like that which occurs in pernicious ansemia. There are no constant changes in the skin, though nodules of leucocyte infiltration are not uncommon there, and hsemorrhages may occixr. Albumin- uria may occur, generally late in the disease, and albumosuria may appear, but the special characteristic of the urine is its constant acidity and the greatly increased amount of uric acid and of the xanthin bases which it contains. These are the result of the increased leucocyte metabolism, and their amount in the urine of a case at any time corresponds generally to the number of leucocytes present in the blood. Enlargement of the spleen is present to a greater or less extent in all cases of myelsemia, and in a large number of chronic lymphsemic cases. The character of the enlargement is the same in both sets of cases. The organ usually extends downwards and forwards, much more rarely upwards, and its general form is retained, the notches usually persisting. It may pass beyond the middle line, and, as a firm tumour, fill almost the whole of the abdomen, or may be of any smaller size. Generally speaking, the more chronic the case the greater the enlarge- ment. It bears no special relation to the number of leucocytes in the blood; in remis- sions when the blood becomes nearly normal the organ may diminish somewhat, but more frequently, in my experience, remains unaltered in size. In the acuter cases, again, there may be slight enlargement with a very high leucocyte count. The lymphatic glands are often but little enlarged in myelsemia, though towards the end of a case some of them usually increase in size. I have indeed seen very great enlarge- ment in some cases. In chronic lymphsemia, however, it is the rule to find most of the glands in the body enlarged, especially those of the neck, axillse, and groins, and usually the internal glands as well. The enlargement is