LIVER, DISEASES OF 450 irritating constituents. Milk is the staple, and is specially advantageous from its diuretic effect on the kidneys ; to this eggs and bread and butter, with occasionally fish, may be added. Alcohol should be avoided as far as possible. Intestinal antiseptics, such as calomel, /3- naphthol, salol, and so forth, should be given. The first named is said to give good results ; it is also useful in preventing constipation and auto- intoxication from stagnation of fsecal matter. Duration and Prognosis. — Though the disease is probably incurable it is often pro- longed for many years, jaundice lasting for ten or more years. The average duration of symp- toms is about five years. The symptoms may recede on careful treatment, but alcoholism, exposui'e, or over-work will bring them back. In some few recorded cases the disease has run a very acute course. Clubbing of the fingers, though a rare con- dition, is only met with in long-standing cases, and is an indication that the course of the disease is slow. Obstructive Biliary Cirrhosis By obstructive biliary cirrhosis is meant a fibrosis spreading from the bile ducts around the lobules of the liver, and due to obstruction of the large bile ducts. Charcot and Gombault, who described this condition, supported their contention by the results of ligaturing the common duct in animals, an experiment that Wickham Legg had previously performed in this country. In these experiments the ducts were found to be dilated, and to be the starting- point of fibrosis which surrounded the individual lobules and sometimes penetrated into their substance; in the fibrous tissue surrounding the hepatic lobules there were numerous new bile ducts (pseudo-bile canaliculi) which joined on to the liver-cells. These experiments have been frequently repeated, and the conclusion to be drawn from them is that the cirrhosis ob- tained by the earlier workers was due to in- fection, and that aseptic ligature of the ducts leads to little or no fibrosis, but merely to focal necrosis of the liver-cells. The facts observed in the human subject are in general agreement with the foregoing. When the common bile duct is compressed by malignant disease, for example in carcinoma of the head of the pan- creas, the bile ducts become dilated, and there are degenerative and necrotic changes in the liver-cells, but practically no fibrosis. On the other hand, when a gall-stone is lodged in the common bile duct the results are not so con- stant ; sometimes the changes are the same as in aseptic closure of the common ducts ; but in other instances there is cholangitis and pericho- langitis, which if the process is chronic results in fibrosis around the ducts. The determining- factor is evidently in great measure the freedom from or presence of an ascending infection of the ducts. The histological changes thus pro- duced are not the same as those of hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis (vide p. 447). It must, however, be remembered that ob- struction of the bile ducts necessarily carries with it the absence of bile in the intestines; the latter is a factor that will tend to increase fermentation in the alimentary canal, and so lead to the production of poisons, which when carried to the liver might be expected to set up the ordinary portal or multilobular cirrhosis. This change would indeed, in all probability, more often be met with were it not that the liver, being flooded with bile, which has ac- quired toxic properties (as shown by the focal necrosis of the liver-cells), is incapable of any reaction. Cases of long-standing gall-stone obstruction associated with ordinary portal cirrhosis of the liver undoubtedly occur; but the symptoms are chiefly those of biliary obstruction, and not of portal vein obstruction. Hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis has sometimes been found associated with gall-stones, but it is quite reasonable to think that the gall-stones are secondary to cholangitis, and not the primary morbid factor. Clinical Features.—When cirrhosis of the liver, whether it be pericholangitic or portal, occurs in a patient with biliary obstruction, it does not give rise to any special signs or symp- toms. The features remain those of biliary obstruction. In some instances a gall-stone may become lodged in the common bile duct without any history of colic being obtained. In such cases the question of diagnosis may be one of con- siderable difficulty {vide p. 449). As time pro- gresses bile may escape by the side of the stone into the duodenum, and the fseces are no longer pale; they then contain bile just as they do in hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis. In differentiating these two conditions the size of the spleen is important; big in hyper- trophic biliary cirrhosis, not enlarged in gall- stone obstruction. In hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis the liver is greatly increased in size, in biliary obstruction it is swollen from retention of bile, but in the late stages and when fibrosis develops it becomes smaller. To sum up : A chronic ascending cholangitis leading to pericholangitic fibrosis may be as- sociated with and favoured by gall-stone ob- struction, but it depends on infection, and not on obstruction of the ducts per se. This fibrosis is clinically of little importance ; the features of the case are those of obstructive jaundice. In some instances ordinary portal cirrhosis may develop after gall-stone obstruction has been established, and is reasonably explained as the result of poisons manufactured in the intestines and carried to the liver by the portal vein.