FEEDING 4 INVALID Wet fryi7ig or sauteing is properly boiling in oil. For this there is required a deep pan of clarified dripping or of olive oil. If the process is properly carried out the food is deliciously cooked and absolutely free from grease. The temperature of the fat is im- portant ; when fat is placed on the fire and reaches 212° F. (the boiling-point of water), it bubbles and makes a hissing sound due to a small portion of the water in the fat becoming steam and being got rid oif. Fat, however, does not boil until it has reached a much higher temperature. At a temperature of 340° F. a slight bluish vapour is given off, and this is the time when if a piece of bread be dropped in, it becomes brown in a second or two, and on being taken out of the fat, almost instantly loses all its greasy appearance. If the fat gets hotter and begins to boil, a state of affairs to be avoided, it begins to smoke and decompose. The principle on which the success of frying depends is that at the moment of contact with the almost boiling fat a thin film is formed over every part of the surface of the fish or other object to be fried, and all the juices and flavours are retained. The food is kept in until it has a golden brown colour, when it is removed from the oil bath. It may look greasy for a moment, but this drains off very quickly if put on a piece of paper near the fire, and it is absolutely free from grease when it appears at table. If the object to be fried is coated with egg and bread crumbs the crumbs should be very fine, and firmly pressed down to prevent the grease adhering to the surface and by being absorbed by it. The best substance to use is second quality of olive oil, or roast beef dripping; clarified lard should never be used, as the other media for frying are as easily obtained and are much better. B. When the Juices are Extracted Stewing and braising are processes by which meat and poultry can be prepared and served in the most tender condition possible. Stezving aims at making an extract of the nutritive juices of the food, which are then used for cooking. A low steady heat is wanted, and since nothing is lost in this process it is one of the most economical ways of preparing food. The meat is chopped into convenient sized portions, seasoned (if there are bones they also are broken up and put into the pot), the whole is covered with cold water, and a tight-fitting lid put on to the pot, which is placed near the fire, but never allowed to boil. The old saying, " A stew boiled is a stew spoiled," is a true one. If vegetables are to be added they are best put into the pot after the meat is half done. The flavours of the vegetables are lost with too continuous cooking. The more slowly the stew is cooked the better it is done. Tough meats are rendered more digestible by the addition of a little vinegar to loosen their fibres and to convert them into acid albumoses. Braising is slow cooking in a closed vessel, the meat being just covered with an extract of animal and vegetable juices instead of water, and so the flavour of the meat is improved. This method is best adapted for foods somewhat insipid in themselves, like veal and poultry. At the end of the process the meat should be browned, and this is carried out by having a concave lid in which hot cinders can be placed, or it may be done by radiation before the fire. Sou])-making.—This, like stewing, proceeds upon the principle of extracting as much as possible from the materials, the extraction being eff"ected by the use of a considerable quantity of water at a very moderate heat extending over a long period. The simplest form of soup-making is that of making beef tea (p. 13). The meat is cut up into several pieces to expose as large a surface to the water as possible ; the solvent power of the water is increased by the addition of a little vinegar, and the temperature mvist never rise over 160° F. As vegetables require a very much greater heat than this to soften them, they should either be first boiled, and then the meat should be added; or the steamed vegetables should be added when the soup is almost ready. Flavouring herbs should be put in at the last moment. In all soups made from meat great care should be exercised in the removal of fat. This is best done by the soup being made the day before it is required, and poured into a basin and carefully skimmed when cold. Varieties of Soup.—Stock.—This is the simplest form of soup, and is the product of the mysterious stock-pot. This vessel should receive all scraps of meat and vegetables that are over from the preparation of other dishes. It stands constantly at the side of the stove, gradually concentrating its contents, and it requires to be brought to the boil every day for five minutes to prevent fermentation. It should also be cleaned out every third or fourth day in case of the stock going sour. This stock can be used for many soups, for the basis of gravy, and, instead of water, in stewing and boiling meat. The next variety of soup is that which is made on the lines of a good Scotch broth of meat and vegetables either boiled in weak stock or with water; this is known in France as pot-au-feu, and here the boiled meat is intended to be eaten either with or immediately after the soup. A stronger extract than pot-au-feu is grand bouillon, in which to the meat and vegetables are added bones and connective tissue for the sake of the gelatine. This, when cold and