442 LIVER, DISEASES OF or ascites by compression of the bile duct or portal vein in these diseases. Enlargement of the portal lymphatic glands may be due to various conditions, chiefly in- flammatory, inside the liver, such as abscess, pylephlebitis, suppurative cholangitis, tubercle, hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis, and primary carcinoma. As already mentioned, new growth may ex- tend into the portal fissure along the lymphatic vessels against the flow of lymph, and occasion- ally infiltration of the portal lymphatic glands may be secondary to carcinoma in the peri- toneal cavity; when this has occurred jaundice may result. Chronic Venous Congestion of the Liver Chronic Venous Engorgement op Liver- Etiology. .... . 442 Morbid Anatomy and Histology . 442 Physical Signs and Symptoms . 443 Termination and Prognosis . . 444 Diagnosis .... . 444 Treatment .... . 444 Hepatic Pseudo-Cirrhosis . 444 Infarcts ..... . 445 Synonyms : Nutmeg Liver, Cardiac Liver, Cyanotic Atrophy, Red Atrophy, Hepatic Asystole. This condition is almost always secondary to obstructive heart disease, especially of the mitral valve, or lung lesions, such as chronic bronchitis, emphysema, and some forms of pneumoconiosis. The symptoms due to the hepatic condition are, as a rule, merely added on to those of the primary disease; in some instances, however, the former are more promi- nent than those of the primary lesion, and to these cases the term " hepatic asystole " has been applied. Etiology.—Any causes that lead to backward pressure and tricuspid regurgitation will pro- duce chronic engorgement of the inferior vena cava, the hepatic veins, and their branches — the sublobular and intralobular veins. Mitral stenosis, dilatation of the left ventricle, mitral regurgitation from whatever cause, and obstruc- tion to the pulmonary circulation, such as emphysema, are the common causes of tricuspid regurgitation and chronic venous engorgement of the liver. Tricuspid stenosis is rare ; when it does occur it is always combined with, and secondary to, mitral stenosis. When it is pre- sent the hepatic engorgement is very marked. It is possible that tumours or new formations, such as a hydatid cyst, gumma, or cicatrices, might compress the inferior vena cava between the entrance of the hepatic veins and the right auricle. Another conceivable cause is kinking of the inferior vena cava, from displacement of the heart caused by the presence of a large pleural effusion. Obstruction at the orifices of the hepatic veins due to cicatricial contrac- tion of gummatous tissue or to syphilitic change in the walls of the veins—both of them rare lesions {vide p. 441)—may induce a nutmeggy condition of the liver. Lastly, new growths or hydatid cysts in the substance of the liver may produce local areas of chronic venous engorgement. Morbid Anatomy.—The liver is usually some- what enlarged, though not so much as in life. Its size depends on the amount of blood in it; further, the organ is much more distensible in life than after death, when its protoplasm coagulates or enters into rigor mortis. In advanced cases the liver-cells undergo atrophy, and the liver tends to become smaller. Ex- ternally it is of a mottled purple colour, and the subcapsular veins, seen as slight depressions in its surface, show up from atrophy of the surrounding liver substance. Sometimes there is subcapsular fibrosis (replacement fibrosis), which must be distinguished from perihepatitis. When ascites has existed for some time the capsule may be opaque. In rare cases chronic peritonitis spreads from an adherent pericardium to the capside of the liver; the condition then becomes chronic universal perihepatitis. On section the appearance is like that of a cut nutmeg; the sublobular veins and their branches—the intralobular veins—are dilated, and being full of blood, appear as dark purple spots or streaks corresponding to their trans- verse or longitudinal section. Apart from these venules the liver-cells, being stained with bile and infiltrated with fat, appear of a yellowish- white colour. This contrast gives rise to the name "nutmeggy" liver. This nutmeggy appearance may be fine or coarse; the latter condition is less characteristic. The hepatic veins are dilated and their walls opaque and somewhat thickened, the liver tissue around being somewhat atrophied and compressed. Oppinet has suggested that the incidence of hepatic asystole or marked hepatic phenomena in a case of morbus cordis is deter- mined by an anatomical condition of the hepatic veins at their entry into the inferior vena cava, which is congenital in origin and fairly common. But it seems more natural to regard these changes as secondary to backward pressure. Occasionally there is some sporadic fibrosis of the liver, and it has been thought that chronic venous congestion causes cirrhosis. It is true that as the result of atrophy of the liver- cells the fibrous tissue becomes more prominent, but genuine cirrhosis is not due to chronic venous engorgement of the organ pure and simple. The state of chronic portal conges- tion may, and often does, lead to intestinal catarrh, and by the consequent formation of poisons some cirrhosis in the liver might be expected much more often than is actually