80 JOINTS, DISEASES OF to the synovial lining may project into the interior of the joint, it may be like the fringes in arthritis deformans, and have been known to give rise to the symptoms of "loose bod3^" Recovery may be attended with considerable stiffness and contracture deformity. Gumniata in the periosteum or marrov) of the adjacent bones may result in a form of joint disease known as syphilitic osteo-arthritis. There is a gradual enlargement of one or other of the bones, attended with neuralgic pains which are worst at night; at this stage the diagnosis from sarcoma may be difficult or impossible; the gummatous disease may extend to the synovial membrane, and may be attended with effusion into the joint, or it may erupt on the periosteal surface and break through the skin, forming one or more sinuses. The further progress in un- treated cases is complicated by the occurrence of septic infection and of necrosis of bone. In the knee-joint, the patella or one of the condyles of the femur or tibia may furnish a sequestrum, which may involve the articular surface and impart to the disease a persistent and destructive character. In such cases one should not expect recovery from antisyphilitic treatment alone, it must be supplemented by operative measures directed to the removal of the damaged tissues ; excision of the knee is rarely called for, even in the most aggravated cases ; in the elbow it may be practised in order to obtain a movable joint. In inherited syphilis the earliest joint affec- tions are associated with the epiplaysitis (or syphilitic osteo-chondritis) of young infants; there may occur some effusion into the adjacent joint (knee, elbow) ; in exceptional cases pyo- genic infection may be superadded, and the joint may fill with pus. In children a serous synovitis or hydrops may develop in the knee of one or of both sides, sometimes in the earlier period, along with iritis, or at a later period along with interstitial keratitis ; it is very chronic, and scarcely causes any symptoms. It disappears under treatment without any impairment of the functions of the joint. The tertiary or gumma- tons lesions of joints are the same as have been described as met with in the subjects of acquired syphilis; they are most often met with in re- lation to the joints of the fingers in syphilitis, but are also met with in the knee and elbow. III. Joint Diseases accompanying certain Constitutional Conditions Gout. Chronic Articular Rheumatism. Arthritis Deformans. Arthritis Ossificans. Hcemophylia. The fionty affections of joints are considered in the general article on "Gout" (vol. iv.). Their surgical importance relates to the differ- ential diagnosis and to the occasional necessity for operative interference. Chronic rheumatism is an ill-defined affection of joints which is chiefly remarkable for the amount of suffering to which it may give rise, and the great disturbance in the functions of the joint which may result from it. Its claims to be called rheumatic rest upon the following facts: it usually follows upon acute articular rheumatism; it may show exacerbations or relapses, attended with pyrexia and relieved by salicylates; it is met with in patients who present a family history of acute rheumatism or of inflammation of serous membranes ; there may be a history of chorea, or of erythema nodosum, or of rheumatic nodules, or other undoubted evidences of rheumatism. It is usually polyarticular. It may be met with in childhood and youth as well as in adults. The primary changes in the affected joints almost exclusively involve the synovial membrane, the ligaments, the surrounding tendon sheaths, and bursse; they consist in inflammatory infiltration and exudation, result- ing in the formation of new connective tissue, which encroaches on the cavity of the joint and gives rise to adhesions. The newly-formed connective tissue tends to contract, causing deformity and stiffness. Changes may occur in the articular cartilages secondary to adhesions between opposing surfaces, or as a result of their displacement, so that they are no longer in contact with one another; they consist in the conversion of the cartilage into connective tissue. The bones are only affected in so far as they undergo fatty atrophy from disuse, or alteration in their configuration as a result of displacement "(subluxation). Suppuration does not occur. Osseous ankylosis may be observed, especially in the small joints of the hand and foot. Clinically the disease is chronic and often incurable. Pain may be so prominent a feature that the patient resists the least attempt at movement. In other cases the joints, although stiff, may be moved, and exhibit pronounced crackings. The joints are enlarged or swollen when there is much new connective tissue formed in relation to the synovial membrane; the swelling becomes more noticeable as the muscles waste above and below the joint. Sub- acute exacerbations occur from time to time, with fever and with aggravation of the local symptoms and signs. While recovery may take place with ankylosis and deformity, tiie patient becoming a helpless cripple, the tenure of life is very imcertain because of the tendency to visceral complications. From the natui-e of the disease treatment is very rarely curative. Salicylates are only of service during the exacerbations attended with pyrexia. Temporary improvement may result from the general and local therapeutics available at such places as Bath, Buxton, Wiesbaden,