491 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES The escape of the colon baciUus from the in- testinal tract need not be owing to direct injury of the intestinal walls, although, in the case of derangement of the liver, the intestinal functions will be necessarily upset. Reasoning from this basis, it is plain that a disturbance of nutrition of the endothelial lining of the peritoneal sur- face of the liver may attract the bacillus coli communis to the altered spot and inflammatory changes ensue. That the inflammation set up should remain limited, or that the fluids exuded should fail to set up general peritonitis by find- ing their way into the general cavity of the peritoneum, seems remarkable. Explanations of this limitation are to be sought for in the fact that the peritoneum is endowed with a certain power of counteracting and resisting the toxic power of such infective influences. Ex- periment and every-day experiences in ab- dominal surgery prove this to be the case, and the principle admits of application in the case of individual organs being attacked. Moreover, the general pressure maintained in all parts of the abdominal contents thwarts the precipita- tion of fluid exudations to the lower reaches of the cavity. Were this not the case, pelvic peritoneal inflammation subsequent to any and every inflammation starting within the ab- dominal cavity would be more common. Pelvic peritonitis, however, does not necessarily, or even usually, succeed—showing that the inflam- matory fluids, issuing around the individual organ, are naturally primarily restricted to the peritoneum in the immediate neighbourhood of the diseased part. With the bacillus coli communis other bacteria appear, and both streptococci and staphylococci may infect a local peritoneal inflammation. The presence of the micrococcus lanceolatus (the pneumococcus of Fraenkel) does not seem more common in perihepatitis than in other peritoneal inflammations, although the proximity of the liver to the lung and intimate lymphatic association therewith might have implied that such would be the case. The amoeba coli is also accredited with causing perihepatitis in two situations at least—viz., where the colon touches the liver, and again, upon the upper aspect of the liver. The amoeba coli, like the bacillus coli, is found at times in the intestines of healthy persons ; but in several abdominal diseases and functional derangements it becomes endowed with pathological powers, as witnessed in the so-called amoebic dysentery. Not only so, but it may become extra-intestinal by finding its way through the intestinal walls and gaining the cavity of the peritoneum. When the amoeba passes through the part of the colon in contact with the liver at the hepatic flexure the localised perihepatitis admits of ex- planation ; but how the parasite gains the upper surface of the liver is not so apparent. It would seem that the infection of this region is determined by the general drift of lymphatic fluids towards the upper part of the abdominal cavity, and that here, between the constantly- moving liver and diaphragm, a perihepatitis is induced which binds the liver to the diaphragm and the adjacent parietal wall. After perihepatitis the parts may return to their normal condition without any trace of the inflammatory disturbance being left. The lymph eff'used on the surface may undergo fatty de- generation and be absorbed together with the inflammatory fluids exuded. It is more usual, however, for the lymph to become organised and to remain :—(1) Of a memhranous sheet of adhesions, closely binding the liver to the diaphragm and the abdominal wall or to the neighbouring viscera ; the fibrous material may be as tough as leather—so much so that on the post-mortem table the parts cannot be torn apart. (2) The adhesions may have become stretched whilst in the pliant state, and, if so, they will appear as filamentous adhesions allow- ing of fairly free movement between the liver and the neighbouring structures. During con- valescence from a perihepatitis, therefore, it is important that the patient should have massage, and take exercise calculated to expand the chest, for the purpose of lengthening the adhesions; for when the adhesions are of a membranous character the right side of the chest is hampered in its movement, the right shoulder drops, a sense of weight remains in the right chest, especially when any exercise is taken ; therefore everything possible should be done to prevent "the liver sticking to the ribs" during the early stages of convalescence. Signs and Symptoms.—Acute perihepatitis, occurring primarily with or without pleurisy, or secondary to acute affections of the liver, is usually ushered in by a definite train of symptoms. An initial rigor, should it occur, is no guide to the nature of the peritoneal lesion around the liver. Pain diffused over the epi- gastrium and the right lower ribs suggests a general perihepatitis, whilst a pronounced pain, referred to a more or less definite spot, be- tokens a localised perihepatitis. Respiration is hampered, and the right side steadied and fixed against movement. A short, catching, hacking, dry cough is a frequent symptom often provoked when the liver is being examined. The pulse is hard and small, becoming softer only when free exudation occurs. The muscles of the abdominal wall generally, and over the region of the liver especially, become tense and rigid the moment any attempt is made to examine the liver. Percussion below the costal margin is attended by pain. When the liver is grasped and moved between the hands, by placing one over the right lower ribs behind and the other over the region of the epigastrium, acute pain is usually elicited, and frequently a sharp, darting pain shoots up to the shoulder, causing