97 KIDNEY slight indirect violence, such as a short fall upon the buttocks, or a muscular strain in lifting. Severe renal haemorrhage upon the occurrence of slight violence after mid-adult age and in old people shoiild raise a suspicion of malignant growth : in the decade between thirty and forty of calculus, and in the young adult of chronic interstitial nephritis or tubercle. I have met and verified several instances of each of these diseases, the first intimation of which was given by the appearance of htematuria consequent upon a slight fall, blow, or strain. Symptoms.—Some amount of shock is present in nearly every case of renal laceration, the collapse being the more profound and lasting in proportion to the severity of the lesion. As the shock passes oiT, nausea and vomiting set in, severe pain is experienced in the area of the injured kidney and along its ureter, the kidney becomes exquisitely sensitive, and the muscles over it markedly rigid. Tympany ensues in a few hours although the peritoneum may be uninjured. Blood is passed in the urine ; the patient is often tormented with dysuria, although the actual quantity of urine may be markedly diminished, and a swelling is soon detectable in the renal region, whilst ecchymosis, more or less extensive, dis- colours the skin, and marks the subcutaneous limits of the effused blood. Hcematuria.—This cardinal symptom varies according to the site and extent of the lacera- tion, although it is no indication of the amount of the blood escaping, for much of it may per- colate from the kidney into the perirenal area. If the laceration is purely cortical the hsema- turial admixture may be only microscopical and in the shape of a few blood cylinders. If, however, the kidney is extensively torn, the bleeding may be so profuse as to pour down the ureter, enter and fill the bladder, and either clot there, producing retention, or frequently issue thence by the act of urination, arterial in hue and fluid in consistence. It may even cause death. Thus Grawitz has collected seventeen cases in which death ensued within half an hour to fifteen hours after the injury. Usually, however, although the haemorrhage is at first bright, it rapidly darkens and clears off by the third day. If it remains profuse after the fourth day there is cause for alarm, especially if the swelling in the loin continues to increase. Sometimes it is intermittent, or varying in amount at different times, or it may even be absent (Newman). In forty-nine deaths from uncomplicated lesions of the kidney fifteen died rapidly without hsematuria (Tuffier). Course of a Severe Case.—When the peri- toneum has been torn and the adjoining viscera have been lacerated the patient usually succumbs. Klister says that only one case—that of Kehr— in which the peritoneal covering was proved to be torn has recovered; but in the more favour- VOL. V able cases, when the injury is limited to the kidney, the patient, when he has escaped the immediate danger of haemorrhage, is confronted with that of septicity (76 per cent, Tuffier). This usually takes the form of cystopyelitis, which quickly induces in its turn pyelonephritis, perinephritis, and finally septic peritonitis. It is needless to add, if the inflammatory products around the kidney are imrelieved by free drainage the patient dies. Septicity is usually heralded by a rise of temperature, and increase of lumbar pain, and often these symptoms follow hard upon the introduction of a catheter; for there is no doubt that part at least of the heavy mortality is due to septic catheterism. (6) Oj^en lesions of the kidney. The symptoms which attend open wounds of the kidney are the same as those which mark subcutaneous lesions, but with these differences : —Hsematuria, which is the cardinal symptom, is nearly always present; the pain, which is in proportion to the laceration of the muscles, is usually more localised, and does not extend along the ureter; whilst, owing to the generally free escape of blood or urine, the lumbar swelling is not present, or does not become so marked a feature. The prolapse of the kidney into the wound is probably rare. The danger of haemorrhage is as great as in subcutaneous wounds, but that of septicity is less, owing to the escape from the wound of the products of inflammation. Hence the death-rate is lower (15 per cent). Moreover, statistics show that many of the patients have been operated upon, and nearly always successfully. Treatment.—(a) In sulxnitarieous lesions. In a fair proportion of those cases in which the haematuria, the renal pain, and the loin swelling are slight, rest in bed will suffice. The application of an ice-bag for a few hours relieves mentally, if it does not influence the pain and haemorrhage. Small doses of an opiate are always beneficial, but internal haemostatics by injection or by the mouth are useless. Subse- quently, strapping the affected side as if for fractured ribs (Morris) affords comfort and rest. In graver cases, when the haematuria is severe and the loin swelling is marked, operative inter- ference becomes a necessity, not only to arrest the haemorrhage, but also to give a free outlet to the perirenal collection of blood and, may be, urine, and to anticipate and prevent those septic changes which prove so fatal. In fact, early surgical intervention will become, I believe, the rule in all the severer cases. Whether tamponade of the surface of the kidney and subsequent free drainage, or stitching of the fissures, or partial or complete nephrectomy, should be undertaken are questions which must rest upon the judgment and experience of the operator. At the same time that the loin is