272 LABOUR, INJURIES DURING patient is probably still under anaesthesia. It is quite possible to insert (tying them afterwards) the necessary sutures at this time also, especially if only perineal sutures are required, for the parts are then somewhat numbed. Although trifling tears will heal without sutures if the legs are tied together, and the wound kept aseptic, all wounds of the perineum, except those which have merely torn the posterior fourchette, should be at once sutured. The more extensive the tear, especially if the rectum be involved, the more necessary is it to suture the rent at once, though union will often take place if the operation is unavoidably post- poned for a few hours. Preparations for the Operation. — Let the patient be kept under anaesthesia if it is con- sidered that sutures are needed. For the in- sertion of sutures for " incomplete" perineal tears anaesthesia is not essential, for the only pain is as the needle enters and leaves the skin, and that is often somewhat numbed at first. Keep the patient in the lithotomy position, by means of a Clover's crutch or an improvised roller-towel or sheet-sling. Clean the parts well with antiseptic lotion, and dam back any haemorrhage coming from the uterus with antiseptic vaginal tampons. Let an assistant separate the labia well, and expose the torn surfaces. The parts should be shaved, if hirsute. (1) The Operation for '■'■Incomplete" Rupture. —The best needle is a rectangular one fixed in a handle, as recommended by Dr. Cullingworth (Fig. 61). Pass the sutures in such a way, that when they are tied, the wound is entirely obliterated without any incurving of the skin or mucous membrane. In introducing the sutures, notice carefully if any spots in either of the raw surfaces are depressed or cupped. If so, it shows that muscle-fibres, e.g. of the sphincter ani, are cut through and retracted. These must be carefully caught in the sutures, and drawn to the surface. The rectangular needle, unarmed, should enter the skin or mucous membrane (Fig. 59) quite close to the edge of the tear, should pass deeply into the tissues under the base of the rent and out at the other side, " buried " throughout. The needle should then be threaded with silk-worm gut and withdrawn. The first suture should be inserted opposite the posterior angle formed by the tear, nearest the anus, and the other stitches, one-third of an inch apart, should then be inserted anterior to the first one till the anterior margin of the perineum is reached. After all the sutures have been inserted they should be tied in the same order. The following diagrams show the faulty and the correct methods of inserting sutures for the repair of incomplete ruptures (Figs. 62, 63). The sutures should be removed in seven days, after the bowels have been well opened. (2) The Operation for " Complete " Rupture. —When it is found that the sphincter is torn, and the rectal mucous membrane exposed, the patient must be arranged in the lithotomy position, in a good light. The rectal tear must be sutured first with catgut, the sutures being introduced first at the apex of the tear, the highest point from the anus. The best way to insert the sutures is as follows :—Let the rectal wound be put on the stretch by an assistant's hands, one on each side of the vulva. Steady the apex of the wound with dressing forceps, and take a rectangular, or, if preferred, a half- curved needle set in a holder, and pass it, un- armed, from the rectal aspect at the apex of the tear, as close as possible to the torn surface, at its very edge, without actually passing through the rectal mucous membrane itself, and pass it side- ways into the tissues in such a way that it in- cludes a little bunch of submucous and muscular tissue, and comes out again at the edge of the vaginal mucous membrane without actually entering the vagina itself. Then thread the needle, the eye of which is at its point, and withdraw it, leaving the catgut in the track made. Then pass the unarmed needle in a similar manner on the opposite side of the apex of the rent, and thread it when passed with the vaginal end of the catgut which was left in the tissues on the opposite side, withdraw it, and tie the catgut suture, so that its knot is in the rectum. Then pass succeeding sut- ures from above downwards, till the anus is reached, tying each before the next is passed. When tied, each suture may be at once cut short, or, as is found more con- venient in practice, hold the one just tied in the left hand to steady the parts till the next suture is introduced and tied, and then cut short the previous one. If the sphincter ani is only partly cut through, a so-called purse-string suture, as advised by Dr. Percy Boulton, may be used, either without inserting any rectal sutures, or in addition to them, to add to their security. The purse-string silkworm-gut suture is passed completely round the rectal wound. It is made to enter at the edge of the skin at the anal end of the tear, and is passed along, buried, parallel with the cut rectal surface to the apex, and back again along the other side, and out again at the anal edge of the wound. It should be