LIVER, DISEASES OF 485 greater will be the extent of the red change found after death. Acute red atrophy is thus a further stage of acute yellow atrophy, and not a distinct condition. According to Hilton Fagge the red atrophy is often more extensive in the left lobe. The outlines of the lobules are lost in the red areas, and with difficulty, if at all, discernible in the yellow areas; if visible, they are much smaller than in health. The gall-bladder contains bile, but the larger bile ducts often only show mucus. A scraping of the fresh section shows, under the microscope, blood corpuscles, degenerated liver-cells, and crystals of leucin, tyrosin, and xanthin. Leucin and tyrosin may be found in the blood of the veins of the liver, in the kidneys, and in the spirit in which portions of the liver have been preserved. In the alcoholic extract of the liver of acute yellow atrophy that had been kept for two years, Delepine found Charcot-Leyden crystals. Histologically the appearances vary with the intensity of the change; for, as pointed out, the liver may suffer unequally in different parts. The liver-cells are disorganised, shrunken, angular, and yellow from bile ; thej'^ stain badly, the nuclei being obscured. The protoplasm of the cells is granular and often contains pigment. It may indeed be difficult to recognise the tissue as liver except for the remains of the portal spaces, the appearances being chiefly those of cell debris, small-cell infiltration, and nuclei. There is small-cell infiltration in the portal spaces, starting from the portal vein and spreading into the lobules between the columns of liver-cells. Small-cell infiltration may also be seen around the intralobular veins. In chronic cases, or where the acute change super- venes on cirrhosis, considerable fibrosis may be present. There is an increase in the amount of fat that can be extracted from the liver, some 5 per cent; but this by no means compares with the very considerable amount found in the liver of phos- phorus poisoning. In fresh sections crystals of leucin and tyrosin are seen. In places blood corpuscles are seen extravasated among the disorganised liver-cells. The smaller bile ducts show signs of prolifera- tion, cholangitis, thus explaining the jaundice. The appearances known as pseudo-bile cana- liculi, consisting of columns of small cubical cells, are prominent in the small portal spaces, and may be regarded as an attempt at compensatory hyperplasia on the part of the remaining, com- paratively healthy, liver-cells. The liver-cells divide, and thus small cells resembling minute bile ducts are produced. These regenerative processes are better marked when the disease is prolonged, and may not have time to develop when its course is very rapid. This regenera- tive process in acute yellow atrophy has been specially studied by Meder, Marchand, and Stroebe. In parts where the changes are less marked the liver-cells may be seen forming columns of larger size than the pseudo-bile canaliculi, as if the organ was reverting to the embryonic type of liver. Micro-organisms have been found in some cases, but not in others, and no definite causal connection can be said to exist between any micro-organism and the changes found. Prob- ably several different kinds of micro-organisms, as well as several poisons, are capable of pro- ducing the acute inflammatory and degenerative changes characterising acute yellow atrophy of the liver. The kidneys are swollen, soft, bile-stained, and show small hsemorrhages. Microscopically, the epithelium of the tubules shows degenera- tion. The spleen is softened, as in infective diseases, and often enlarged. The heart is softened and swollen, and shows cloudy swelling. The blood, as in other toxic and septic conditions, stains the walls of the vessels and coagulates imperfectly. Hsemor- rhages are found scattered through the body on the cutaneous, mucous, and serous surfaces. Meningeal and cerebral (Lafitte) hsemorrhages have been known to occur. Toxic changes in the vessel walls allow extravasation to take place. Brunton and Tunnicliife point out that viperine poison has the same eff"ect when applied locally to the mesentery of a frog. The intestinal tract shows catarrhal inflamma- tion and degeneration, while patches of necrosis in the stomach have been met with. The body thus shows widespread degenera- tion due to a virulent poison. Changes of this nature have been described in the spinal cord. Nature of the Change.—The essential factor is a very acute necrotic degeneration of the liver-cells with evidences of inflammation in the supporting fibrous tissue of the organ. The condition is a very acute hepatitis; chronic or protracted cases have been regarded as acute cirrhosis. It is analogous to, but more acute than the toxic changes seen in the liver, in phosphorus, iodoform, arsenic poisoning, or in lupinosis. In Germany many sheep die with jaundice, hsemorrhages, delirium, and acute yellow atrophy of the liver as a result of eating certain lupins. This disease—lupinosis—which is not met with in man, is thought to be due to a poison—ictrogen or lupinotoxin—produced by the agency of fungi in the husks of the seeds. Where the poisons that lead to acute yellow atrophy are primarily produced is not known. But whether produced in the liver or elsewhere, the body suffers as a whole. In some instances the change in the liver may be a local mani- festation of a general infection or intoxication, while in other instances the liver may be