KIDNEY 93 follows that urea, uric acid, etc. pursue the same course. It is unfortunate that urea, owing to its great solubility, is so quickly excreted that its detection in the tubules is impossible, and uric acid also is excreted with- out, as a rule, leaving any trace of its passage through the rodded cells. Recently, however, crystals of uric acid have been detected in those cells by Minkowski after adenin has been given. They are often found in the lumen of the convoluted tubules, never in Bowman's capsule. Hsemoglobin seems without doubt to pass through the glomeruli (Adami), and in all probability serum albumin also. Ribbert and Bradford's experiments on the effects of removal of larger or smaller portions of the kidney substance may be interpreted in so many ways that their discussion in this article is unnecessary. Although most of the im- portant work on renal secretion was done by older investigators, recent workers have been able—thanks to the ingenious invention of Roy —by means of the oncograph, to register altera- tions in the volume of the kidney. This instrument is simply a plethysmograph of a suitable shape for the kidney, with oil as the medium, and a recording piston with attached lever for recording changes in the volume of the organ. Influence of the Nervous System.—Reference has already been made to the influence exerted by the vaso-motor nerves, the fibres of which leave the cord by the anterior roots of the 11th, 12th, and 13th dorsal nerves (Bradford). According to Bradford, vaso - pilator fibres accompany the constrictors, as stimulation of the above-mentioned anterior roots by induction shocks at the rate of one per second produces active dilatation of the vessels without a sufficient rise in blood-pressure to explain the enlargement of the kidney. Stimulation of the posterior roots produces reflexly a similar dilatation. There has always, however, been doubt expressed as to the existence of special secretory nerves to the kidney, although Eckhard showed that polyuria might be pro- duced by mechanical stimulation of that por- tion of the superior vermes of the cerebellum adjacent to the medulla if the hepatic nerves had been previously cut, or if the stimulation were a superficial one. He could not obtain the results which C. Bernard did on puncture of the floor of the 4th ventricle. It is hardly necessary, however, to accept the view of special secretory nerves for the kidney, as the existence of vaso-dilator fibres which can be stimulated either directly or reflexly explains the results obtained by Eckhard, and also the polyuria that occurs in hysteria, epilepsy, etc. The histo- logical work of Berkeley on the nerve-endings in the kidney requires farther confirmation. The subject of physiological albuminuria is a difficult one. It is perhaps most easily explained on Heidenhain's hypothesis, the per- meability or secretory activity of the cells being affected by any cause which tends to produce slowing of the local circulation, and as a residt disturbance of the intracellular metabolism from want of oxygen, etc. (See article " Urine.") It is impossible at present to speak with any certainty about the internal secretion of the kidney, although a vast amoimt of work has been done by French and Italian scientists on this subject. Specific Renal-Functions.—Although in this article special reference has been made to the kidney as an organ of excretion, at the most selecting from the plasma preformed urinary constituents, it is necessary also to bear in mind that it possesses the power of altering plasma constituents, and in some cases even carrying out important syntheses. Thus the alkaline phosphates of the plasma appear in the urine as acid ones, and in at least some animals {e.g. the dog) the synthesis of benzoic acid and glycocoll to form hippuric acid takes place in its tissues. Although some at present hold that the kidney is the seat of uric acid formation, the proofs that have been brought forward in support of the view do not warrant one in coming to that conclusion, and the same holds with regard to the renal origin of urea. Surgical Affections of the Kidney Movable and Floating .... 93 Injuries op ..... . 96 Traumatic Nephritis .... 98 Perinephritis and Perinephritic Ab- scess ....... 98 Renal Fistula ..... 100 Pyelitis ...... 101 Suppurative Pyelonephritis . 103 Cysts ....... 103 Stone in the Kidney .... 104 Renal Tuberculosis .... 109 Hydatid Cysts ..... 115 Hydronephrosis ..... 116 Pyonephrosis ..... 117 Tumours of . 119 Actinomycosis ..... 120 The Ureter ...... 121 Injury ...... 121 Inflammation and Dilatation . 121 Stone ...... 121 Operative Procedures .... 123 Movable and Floating Kidney Movable kidney differs from floating kidney in its relation to the peritoneum; the latter possesses a complete peritoneal covering and pedicle, while the former is retroperitoneal. The distinction is purely anatomical, and has no importance except in so far as it may increase the difficulties of the operator. The range of movement may be quite as great in