339 LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS development of fresh symptoms or by the shifting of the substance, the diagnosis cannot be completed. In many cases, probably the majority of those which present themselves, no trace of the offending substance can be found. The patient can then be reassured and the irritation remaining can be treated. In certain cases, in spite of the fact that the discomfort is referred by the sufferer to the larynx, the irritant will be found outside the larynx—in the sinus pyriformis, the base of the tongue, the tonsils, or elsewhere. Treatment.—Once the presence of a foreign body in the larynx has been definitely detected, it ought never to be left there, even if it is causing no serious symptoms. When the foreign body is even suspected, no attempt at treatment should be made until the imple- ments for a speedy tracheotomy are all at hand. Under the effect of cocaine, and with good illumination, intralaryngeal removal should then be attempted by one of the various forms of intralaryngeal forceps. This is mvich more scientific than the frequently recommended plans of inversion with slapping the back. The latter may be had recourse to when attempts at intralaryngeal extraction have failed, always provided that a tracheotomy can be performed on the spot if the foreign body should happen to shift from a harmless to a dangerous position, or suddenly produce threatening spasm. When dyspnoea is marked, or other methods have failed, or the patient has to be left out of call of prompt relief if required, then the trachea should be opened. When in doubt, it is much safer to do the operation than to leave the patient with a foreign body in the larynx. The substance can be sought for from the tracheotomy wound, and may either be extracted through it or pushed up into the mouth and so removed. If impacted in the larynx, it can be removed by a subsequent thyrotomy. Laryngeal Haemorrhage This includes two separate pathological conditions. (a) S2cbmucous hemorrhage of the vocal cords is a rare affection, and occurs chiefly in singers. It takes place suddenly, and the patient complains of hoarseness. Probably it is pre- disposed to by slight local catarrh. The coincidence of menstruation appears to be a predisposing factor. It has also followed sneezing, coughing, and attempts at topical applications. Examination shows an effusion of blood below the mucous membrane, generally limited to one cord. Sometimes it appears as a small, round, dark-red cystic tumour. (For treatment, vide Chronic Laryngitis.) (6) Superficial Laryngeal Hcemorrhage.—This is alarming, and often difficult to diagnose. It may be due to {a) acute inflammation and various forms of ulceration, (6) changes in the blood and blood-vessels, and (c) trauma follow- ing strangulation or slighter causes. In the second group are angioma of the larynx, local varicose veins, and small varicose aneurysms, also cirrhosis of the liver, heart disease, albuminuria, diabetes, phthisis, malig- nant fevers, htemophilia, purpura, leukaemia, ansemia, etc. Diagnosis is made by the laryngoscope. Special attention must be paid to the nose, the region at the base of the tongue, and the trachea. In all cases where the bleeding point is not discoverable, examine for early indications of pulmonary tuberculosis (q-v.). Treatment.—hocal and general rest, and that generally indicated in hsemorrhage. Abstention from use of the voice, sucking of ice, and the administration of morphia will generally be sufficient. The application of astringents is of doubtful value, and apt to irritate. Congenital Glottic Stenosis Synonyms : Webs of the Larynx, Pseudo-mem- bi'anous Stenosis, Diaphragms of the Larynx, Congenital Laryngeal Stenosis. The occurrence of congenital diaphragm in the larnyx is a rare condition. Semon has recently published a case which, from his researches, appears to be only the sixteenth placed on record. In 1893 Paul Bruns published an essay enumerating twelve cases of this class which he had found in literature, and adding one of his own. Single observations have been recorded by Chiari and Lacoarret. Etiology. —It has sometimes been doubted if these webs are ever really congenital, and it is, of course, rather difficult to establish the point, as it is only when a child begins to acquire the faculty of speech that any defects of phonation become strikingly obvious. This matter, how- ever, appears to have been settled by Seifert, who found that in a family of six persons no less than four showed more or less marked evidence of larnygeal webs. From a careful consideration of the history of these cases it was fairly clear that the affection is not only apt to be hereditary, but is also undoubtedly congenital. Symptoms.—If the laryngeal diaphragm is well marked the first symptom which it may cause will be stridor, chiefly inspiratory, and this will be noticeable at or soon after birth, and will be associated with other symptoms similar to those described under Congenital Laryngeal Stridor (p. 372). But the cry will be more or less hoarse, and when speech develops the voice will be harsh and weak. Dyspnoea on exertion, and inspiratory stridor, as well as the interfer-