411 LICHEN pruritus annoying, but ultimate recovery is the all but invariable rule. Treatment.—In relation to treatment, lichen planus is undoubtedly capricious. The gener- alised form yields much more readily than that occupying restricted areas. The more rapidly it extends the more speedily does it usually disappear, though months may be passed ere it finally vanishes. The warty forms on the lower limbs are very obstinate. To get rid of it we must avail ourselves both of constitutional and of local remedies. Arsenic internally probably takes the first rank; it may be given either in pill or in solution, and moderate doses should be persevered in for perhaps several months ere it is abandoned as unsatisfactory. Should the itching be severe, strychnia may be combined with it; and if ansemia coexist, a not very frequent circumstance, iron may be added. If arsenic fail or seem but tardily effectual, anti- mony, as recommended by Hutchinson, is often an efficient substitute. From eight to thirty minims of the vinum antimoniale well diluted are to be taken three, four, or even for a period six times a day. It commonly agrees perfectly, and only if it occasions sickness plainly ascrib- able to it, or diarrhoea, should it be discontinued or the dose lessened. If both are unsuccessful we may employ mercury, which in the form of the perchloride has caused the disappearance of the disease. From the thirty-second to the sixteenth of a grain twice a day with a grain and a half of iodide of potassium gives the best results, any trace of salivation being watched for, and obviated by temporary disuse and subsequent reduction of the dose. Washing with menthol soap, or baths of Condy's fluid, an ounce in a large bath at 90° to 95°, are useful for relieving the pruritus. Or the fol- lowing lotion of C. Boeck's may be freely used : R Talci, pulv. amyli, liq. plumbi subacetat. dil., sol. acidi borici in aqua 1 per cent a a lOO'O, glycerini 40'0. When used, this must be diluted with twice as much cold water and painted on. In chronic, and especially in localised cases, coal tar dissolved in acetone, as recommended by Sack, is advantageous. R Picis carbonis 10-0, benzol 20-0, acetone 77-0. M. In mild cases or in acute forms a cleanly and valuable application is : R Acidi borici grs. 15, glycerini amyli (1 in 16) unciam. In pityriasis rubra pilaris, baths of carbonate of soda, two ounces in thirty gallons of water at 95°, followed by inunction with vaseline, and combined with the subcutaneous injection of pilocarpine, are in- dicated. For parakeratosis variegata no treat- ment has so far influenced the disease. Lichenification.—The thickening and hardening of the skin which follows upon re- peated scratching of a patch of pruritus ; it may be a primary change, but more often it super- venes upon a skin already altered by eczema or lichen planus (Brocq). See Pruritus (Causa- tion of the Pruritic State, Traumatides). Lichens. See Diet {Vegetable Foods, Lichens). Lidja. See Balneology {Turkey, Anatolia). Lie. — The presentation of the foetus in labour, or the relation of its long axis to the long axis of the uterus of the mother {e.g. the two long axes may coincide, as in the cephalic and pelvic lies ; or they may not, as in the transverse or shoulder cases). See Labour, Dia- gnosis AND Mechanism {Lie and Presentation). Lieberkiihn's Follicles. See Physi OLOGY, Food and Digestion {Structure of the Small Intestine) ; Intestines, Diseases of {Anatomical Considerations). Liebermann's Test.—A test for pro- teids in which the substance is washed with alcohol and ether and treated with fuming hydrochloric acid, when a violet-blue colour is produced if proteid be present. Liebig^'S Extract. —A beef extract. See Invalid Feeding {Meat Broths and Extracts or Teas). LienCUlUS.—An accessory spleen or lien accessorius. See Spleen. LienitiS.—^Inflammation of the spleen; splenitis. See Spleen. LienOCele.—Hernia of the spleen. See Spleen. Lienomalacia. — A morbid state of softness of the spleen; lienomyelomalacia is a softening of both the spleen and the bone- marrow. Lientery.—Diarrhoea in which soon after its ingestion the food passes undigested through the alimentary canal; hence lienteric diarrhoea (Gr. Aetos, smooth, and evrepov, intestine). See Constipation {Physiological Considerations, Ex- aggeration of Peristalsis). Liernur System.—A non-gravitation method of removal of sewage in which suction is employed; it is in use in St. Petersburg, Amsterdam, Riga, and other places; the action of a vacuum draws the excreta and slop waters to a central pumping station. Life, Change of.—The menopause. See Menstruation; Menopause; Climacteric Insanity ; etc. Life Insurance. Historical . . . . . .412 Duties of Medical Man . • .413 Family History of Proposer . . 414 Past History of Proposer . . .415