INVALID FEEDING 5 strained, forms a slightly firm jelly, which can be cleared and flavoured in many ways. A still richer form of soup is one which to the grand bouillon, extract or puree of roast meat, fowls and vegetables have been added, and this is known as a consomme. This is, of course, most albuminous. In framing a diet, due weight must always be given to the composition of the particular soup indicated. General Serving of Food for Invalids If the patient is always objecting to the food, it is quite possible that the manner in which the food is served is responsible for the patient's fastidiousness. Everything should be served as daintily as possible, the dishes, glasses, and traycloth being thoroughly clean. We must remember that to most invalids the meals are the events of the day, and too much care cannot be taken to ensure that everything regarding the food should be done in as attractive a way as possible. Patients should not as a rule be consulted as to their meals, but there should be an endeavour to discover beforehand what the patient likes. Any particular fancy as to sweetness or other- wise should be remembered. Untouched food should never be left in an invalid's room, but should be put aside in a cool place, and no food should be cooked or prepared in the invalid's presence if it can be done elsewhere. Food should never be tasted, or cooled by being blown upon, as these disgust the patient. In the case of helpless patients who cannot feed themselves nourishment may be given by the spoon, or the feeding cup. When the patient is very helpless a useful device is to pull out the cheek, by inserting the finger between the gum and the cheek, and then introduce the fluid nourishment slowly at one side. A tea- spoon is the most convenient size of spoon for child feeding, and a dessert-spoon for the adult. As to drinking cups, the shape made with three handles is very convenient for the patient to use when feeding himself; but when the services of a nurse are required, a small boat-shaped feeding cup with a curved spout and about three inches of rubber tubing attached is the most useful. In the latter case great care must be taken to maintain thorough cleanliness of the apparatus in use. In feeding with a spoon or feeding cup it is certainly easier for the patient to have the head raised if it is permissible; the nurse in these cases passes the left arm under the pillow on which the patient is lying, and gently raises the head. Nasal feeding is called for in some cases of insensibility, melancholia, or other variety of insanity, and after tracheotomy. This method of supplying nourishment is very important. Half a pint to a pint of fluid food can be given at one time. The apparatus is simple; the small glass barrel of a urethral syringe has about 10 inches of narrowish rubber tubing attached. This is well oiled, and is passed gently along the floor of the nose in a backward and slightly outward direction; it slips over the posterior surface of the velum palati, and from thence into the pharynx and gullet. Patients soon become tolerant of this method. The nutriment is slowly poured from a jug in the glass I'cceiver held directly over the patient's face. Rectal Feeding.—Nutrient enemata are most valuable in certain circumstances, enabling the patient to hold out and to maintain his strength until the crisis that called for their use is over. Life may be maintained by rectal feeding alone for several weeks if all due pre- cautions are taken with regard to it. As the large bowel possesses powers of absorption, but very slight if any power of digestion, the food given in this way must have the ingredients transformed into that state which is most easily absorbed. If this is not attended to, the nutrition will be defective, and a very trouble- some irritative state of the bowel is induced which may become an insuperable obstacle to further successful treatment of the case. The foods selected for rectal feeding must, therefore, be bland and easily absorbed. Pre- digested albumin and starch, and also fat in the form of an emulsion, are all absorbed in the rectum. Therefore peptonised beef tea, pep- tonised milk gruel, or maltine and peptonised milk, are all most useful forms of food. If pep- tonised food is not at hand, two tea-spoonfuls of liquor pancreaticus should be added to a 3-ounce enema of beef tea or of milk gruel shortly before its injection. Wine or spirit can also be added, and are to a certain extent absorbed. If the patient is suffering from pyrexia, grape sugar may be added to the enemata to supply the fuel food required. A good enema for occasional use is—1 egg, 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, and a table-spoonful of brandy, well beaten up together. The following special rules should be observed in the administration of a nutrient enema. (See also "Enemata," vol. iii. p. 119.) 1. Two to two and a half ounces is the average size of an enema for an adult. More is apt to set up peristalsis. 2. The enema should be injected slowly and gently. 3. The temperature of the enema should be lukewarm, about 105° F. 4. The nozzle of the syringe should be lubricated with oil or vaseline, and care must be taken in the introduction of the syringe that the same spot of mucous membrane is not pressed upon each time. After injection there should be gentle pressure over the anus with a soft pad.