262 LABOUR, POST-PARTUM HEMORRHAGE and the latter explored with the fingers in order to ascertain the cause of the haemorrhage. If a retro-deviation of the ntenis is present it must be corrected, and a pessary inserted if the uterus will not remain in a normal position of its own accord. If a portion of placenta has been left behind, it must be removed with the finger or blunt curette. If htemorrliage still continues, the uterine cavity must be plugged with iodo- form gauze. In addition, the boAvels must be regulated, and the daily administration of ergot continued for some days. If the haemorrhage is due to the presence of a myoma, and the bleed- ing cannot be checked by the use of ergot, hot douches, and plugging, it may be necessary to discuss the advisability of hysterectomy or myomectomy, according to the situation of the tumour. If the latter is pedunculated it can, of course, be easily removed; indeed, this should be done in all cases as soon as the condition is recognised, as the risk of such a tumour slough- ing after delivery is very considerable. Decidu- oma malignum admits of but one treatment— immediate and complete hysterectomy. Post-HjEmorrhagic Collapse.—The very fav- ourable results which attend the early recognition and treatment of post-hsemorrhagic collapse are so marked that it is deemed advisable to devote a separate paragraph to this condition. Symfptoms.—The symptoms of collapse due to excessive loss of blood are most characteristic. At first there is no noticeable change in the condition of the patient save a slight increase in the frequency of the heart. As the haemorrhage continues this becomes more marked, and the pulse at the same time becomes small and feeble. Gradually the aspect of the patient becomes blanched, the conjunctivae especially being of a pearly white; respiration is more hurried, and the patient frequently sighs. This condition, which is known as air-hunger, is the result of the lessened amount of oxygen which the diminished blood-stream carries to the tissues and the medulla oblongata. If the tempera- ture is taken, it is found to have fallen from one to three degrees. As the haemorrhage con- tinues, the above symptoms become more marked. The pulse becomes uncountable and finally im- perceptible, and the body is covered by a cold sweat. Hurried respiration is replaced by dyspnoea, and the patient, struggling for breath, requests to be raised as high as possible. If this is done she probably loses consciousness momentarily, or the sudden elevation of the head may be even sufficient to cause the final failure of the heart. She gradually becomes more and more restless, complains of inability to see, and finally becomes comatose, with per- haps occasional convulsive movements. Treatment.—AVhen a patient loses a large quantity of blood, death threatens. This occurs, not because there is an insufficient quantity of blood in the body, but because the blood-vessels have not as yet had time to suit their capacity to the diminished amount of fluid which they now contain. As a matter of fact, a woman greatly collapsed from post-partum haemorrhage is said to have as many red blood-corpuscles in her body as an antemic girl. In consequence of the unfilled condition of the vessels, blood does not return to the heart in sufficient quantities ; the latter has nothing to contract upon; as a result its contractions become more and more feeble, and an insufficient quantity of blood is sent to the brain. In consequence of the re- sulting anfemia of the brain feeble stimuli are transmitted to the heart, which fails still more, a vicious circle being thus established. Reason- ing from this we see that, to successfully combat the tendency to cardiac failure, our treatment must be directed towards three points :— (1) The heart must be directly stimulated. Direct stimulation of the heart can be performed by the administration of alcohol by the mouth; by the hj'podermic injection of ether, strych- nine, or brandy; by the rectal injection of brandy or coffee ; and by the use of hot fomenta- tions over the praecordial area. In administer- ing alcohol by the mouth, we must be careful not to give it in such large quantities as to cause vomiting. Half an ounce may be given at first of a mixture of one part of whisky or brandy in two parts of water, followed by a tea- spoonful of the same every five or ten minutes. From twenty minims to a drachm of ether may be injected hypodermically, and from to y'g- of a grain of sulphate of strychnine. Several syringefuls of brandy may be used instead of ether ; the latter is, however, preferable. From half an ounce to an ounce of brandy or whisky, mixed with from four to eight ounces of strong, hot coffee, may be injected into the rectum. (2) The diminished quantity of blood must be limited as far as possible to the vital organs of the body, i.e. the brain and viscera. This is a most important point, and one which is fre- quently forgotten during the carrying out of the necessary measures for checking the hajmor- rhage. The even momentary diminution in the amount of blood which is going to the brain, due to some sudden elevation of the patient's head, may prove fatal. While the patient is in the cross-bed position all pillows must be re- moved from beneath her head ; and if her con- dition is serious, the limbs must be tightly bandaged from below upwards, in order to drive the blood from them to the more important parts of the body. So soon as the bleeding has been checked, and the patient has been re- turned to bed, the bottom of the latter must be raised from six inches to a foot by placing bricks or other sufficiently firm support beneath the legs. Subsequently, as the patient improves the bandages may be removed, and the foot of the bed brought gradually back to its former level.