168 LABOUR, STAGES AND DURATION It thus forms an indicator on the cord, and enables any elongation of the latter to be readily detected. (2) The Fundus of the Uterus rises upwards almost to the Umbilicus.—At the birth of the child the portion of the uterus above the con- traction ring sinks downwards into the thinned- out lower uterine segment and vagina, imder the pressure of the abdominal muscles and of the controlling hand of the assistant. Later, as the placenta is expelled from the uterus, it 1- FlG. 14.—After the expulsion of the placenta (diagrammatic). comes to occupy the place where the body of the uterus formerly lay, and so dislodges the latter upwards out of the pelvis. As a result the fundus rises from its former position—slightly above the pelvic brim—to almost the level of the umbilicus. (3) The Mobility of the Uterus is increased.— This change also depends upon the alteration in the position of the body of the uterus. When the latter lay in the pelvic cavity with the placenta inside it, it was supported all round by the walls of the pelvis, and consequently it could not be readily moved from side to side. As, however, it rises out of the pelvis this support is lost, and consequently it becomes more mobile. (4) The Abdominal Wall bulges forward above the Pubis.—This change is due to the presence of the placenta in the lower uterine segment or in the upper part of the vagina. The placenta, lying in one of these positions, pushes forward the structures in front of it, and so causes a prominence above the pubis which is not unlike that caused by distended bladder. The expulsion of the placenta from the vagina, if left to the natural efforts, is a some- what lengthy process. There is no very efficient natural mechanism for obtaining this expulsion, as the unnatural position in which the patient is placed, i.e. on her back in bed, prevents her from forcing the placenta out, by straining, as readily as she would do if she could get into a squatting position. Consequently the placenta lies in the vagina for some time, until it finally works its way downwards helped by any con- tractions of the abdominal muscles which may occur. In consequence of the unnecessary delay which such a tedious process would cause, this period of the third stage is invariably artificially shortened. The most usually adopted way of doing this is by the method originated in Dublin during the early years of the last (the nineteenth) century, i.e. by substituting firm pressure over the uterus for the natural efforts, and so by driving the uterus downwards into the vagina effecting the expulsion of the placenta. As has been mentioned, the loss of a certain amount of blood is almost an invariable accom- paniment of the third stage. The average amount is said to be four ounces before the placenta is delivered, and six ounces with the placenta and membranes (Dakin). Constitutional Symptoms.—Immediately after delivery, the patient experiences a marked sense of relief due to the almost complete cessation of pain. The temperature may be slightly higher than during labour, while the pulse-rate may be somewhat less than it was during the latter portion of the second stage. The subsequent condition of the patient depends entirely on the amount of blood which is lost. In some cases there may be a slight increase in the pulse-rate and a depression of temperature of one or two degrees, owing to the amount of blood lost, and to the chilling of the patient, which may occur during the delivery of the after-birth and the necessary cleansing of the parts. The degree of pain caused by the uterine contractions is, as a rule, not very severe. (For Management, see p. 196.) Diagnosis and Mechanism of Labour General Diagnosis of Normal Labour 169 Physical Examination . . . .169 Abdominal . . . . .169 Vaginal ...... 172 Binuinmil . . . . .172 General Mechanism of Normal Labour 172 Factors of 172 Vertex Presentation— General Principles of Mechanism . 173 Flexion ...... 174 Internal Rotation . . . .175 Extension . . . . .176 Head Monldimj . . . .177 Diagnosis and Mechanism in Special Vertex Positions . . . .177 Mouldiuf/ . . . . .178 Persistent Occipito-posterior Mechan- isms . . . . . . .178 Moulding . . . . .180 Diagnosis and Mechanism in Face Pre- sentations . . . . . .180 Moulding . . . . .181