223 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED from side to side is increased in the kyphotic pelvis. The traction on the upper part of the sacrum leads to a rotation of the bone about a horizontal axis, so that while its base is displaced no. 33.—Kyphotic pelvis. (After Barbour.) backwards its apex is moved forwards, thus lessening the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet; the movement upwards and backwards of the base of the sacrum pulls on the ilium, if'ia. 34.—Diagram of cavity of kypliotic pelvis in sagittal plane : continuous line, normal pelvis ; dotted line, deformed pelvis. AB, true conjugate; AC, diagonal conjugate; CD, antero- posterior diameter of outlet. and makes the curve of the os innominatum not so sharp; the lessened inclination of the pelvic brim to the horizon causes increased strain on the ilio-femoral ligament. These pull the an- terior inferior iliac spines down and out, and so rotate the ossa innominata about an axis running from before backwards. This rotation widens the space between the iliac crests and approximates the ischia. Hence the main changes from an obstetrical point of view are lengthening of the antero-posterior diameter at the brim, slight widening of the transverse measurements at the brim, considerable narrow- A Fig. 35.—Diagram of brim of kyphotic pelvis: continuous line, normal pelvis; dotted line, kyphotic pelvis. A, symphysis; BB, sacro - iliac synchondroses ; CC, transverse diameter ; DD, ilio-pectiueal eminences; middle of sacrum in plane of brim. ing of the transverse measurements at the outlet. How marked these changes are depends upon how low down the kyphosis is. Kyphosis of the spine is a common disease; but a well-marked kyphotic pelvis is not common, because for its production it is necessary that the disease should begin early in life, and be situated low down. The diagnosis is easy because the condition is suggested by the patient's short stature and crooked back. When the curvature of the spine has been discovered the pelvic outlet should be measured; those of the brim are difficult to take, and as if altered they are increased, it is not important to make them. The ease or diffi- culty of labour depends upon how much the outlet is contracted. Alike in head, breech, and transverse presenta- tions, dorso-posterior positions are more frequent with kyphotic than with normal pelves. The abdominal concavity of the child adapts itself to the lumbar convexity of the normal spine. The dorsal convexity of the child fits the concavity which kyphosis produces in the lumbar spine. If the deformity is not so great as to make delivery impossible, and the head presents with the occiput forwards, the only difference the kyphotic pelvis produces is that the increasing approximation of the sides of the pelvis as the head moves down makes the occiput turn forwards earlier than it does in normal labour.