457 LIVER, DISEASES OF cirrhosis, the condition is either complicated by chronic peritonitis or the diagnosis is incorrect. The Causation of Ascites.—The obstruction to the portal circulation exerted by the cirrhotic liver is hardly sufficient to account for the ascites, since in experimental ligature of the portal vein ascites is not a necessary result. Again, it does not occur when presumably the pressure in the portal vein is highest, namely, at the same time as hsematemesis and melsena. If the peritoneal effusion depended solely on mechanical obstrxiction, it should come on pari passu with cicatricial contraction around the portal canals in the liver. Further, the rapidity with which the fluid is sometimes poured out— a pint or more a day—is hardly compatible with the view that it is solely due to increased venous pressure. It has been suggested that the onset of ascites may depend on thrombosis of minute branches of the portal vein, or of its compensa- tory communications with the general systemic veins ; but of this there is no proof. The character of the fluid shows that it is not an ordinary acute inflammatory exudation, and there is nothing to support the hypothesis that the onset of ascites is due to infection. Chronic peritonitis would account for the ascites, but this lesion is not a necessary accompaniment of ascites in cirrhosis. An attractive theory is that the ascites is toxic and due to the presence of a poison ex- erting a lymphagogue action; this view would explain the onset of oedema of the feet before ascites, but some further factor is required to explain the predominance of ascites over oedema elsewhere in the body. Probably this is to be found in portal congestion ; it is easy to under- stand that stagnation of venous blood in the portal area would diminish the resistance of the endothelial cells of the peritoneum, and thus render them more susceptible to the action of a lymphagogue, while the large amount of blood at hand would further assist. Ascitic fluid is usually slightly yellow in colour and clear; in rare instances it may be chylous, chyliform, or hfemorrhagic. Admixture with blood seems to be traumatic, and due either to damage done by a previous tapping, or to rupture of small vessels either in the peritoneum or in vascular adhesions. When peritonitis is present, the fluid becomes turbid from the presence of pus cells. The specific gravity is 1008-1015; the fluid is alkaline, and contains 0-2-0-4 per cent of albumin and occasionally traces of sugar, urea, and urobilin. Bacteriological examination of ascitic fluid has in three cases shown the presence of Adami's diplococcoid form of the colon bacillus (M. Abbott). Ascites pushes the diaphragm up, often dis- placing the heart and leading to collapse of the bases of the lungs, especially on the right side. For the physical signs and diagnosis of ascites due to diff"erent causes the reader is referred to special article on " Ascites," vol. i. The skin of the abdomen shows dilated subcu- taneous veins which, when much in evidence, are spoken of as caput medusce. The collateral circulation between the veins of the abdominal wall and the parumbilical veins in the falciform ligament, centring around the umbilicus, is characteristic of portal obstruction, and must be distinguished from the dilated superficial epigastric veins, and the mammary and long thoracic veins, which carry on the circulation when the flow through the inferior vena cava is interfered with, and avoid the umbilicus. In cirrhosis, with ascites, the intra-abdominal pressure may so compress the inferior vena cava that the collateral circulation through the epi- gastric and mammary veins becomes evident, in addition to that due to portal obstruction. The abdomen becomes pendulous and flaccid from degeneration and atony of the muscles in its parietes, and when the ascites is extreme the iimbilicus may become everted and even burst. After tapping, the skin shows linese albicantes. Circulatory System.—The pulse is normal in rate, but the tension is low. An apical systolic murmur is frequently present, due to dilatation rather than to valvular disease. Acute dilatation due to alcoholic ex- cess may so alter the aspect of the case that cirrhosis is only revealed at the autopsy. When there is ascites the heart may be considerably displaced upwards, and the apex beat may be in the 3rd interspace. This dis- placement tends to produce a slight kink in the pulmonary artery, and thus accounts for a systolic murmur over the artery which may disappear after paracentesis abdominis. The Blood.—There is no leucocytosis, and as a rule no special antemia. In the late stages the blood becomes toxic, as shown by hsemor- rhages into the skin and elsewhere, and by oedema of the feet. Urine.—The urine is diminished in amount, of high specific gravity, high-coloured, reddish- orange in appearance, and deposits a copious sediment of lithates. It is highly acid in reaction, and the amount of uric acid is in- creased. The amount of urea is diminished, while the ammonia is increased. The amount of urobilin is increased, while occasionally urohsematoporphyrin and indican have been met with. Bile pigment is only present when there is definite jaundice. If the liver be regarded as an important factor in preventing sugar passing into the circulation, it would be natural to expect to find glycosuria in cirrhosis. But, as a matter of fact, though it is sometimes reported, alimentary glycosuria is rare in cirrhosis, and considerable doubt exists as to the value of alimentary glycosuria as a reliable sign of hepatic insufficiency. If the view be taken