39 IRIS AND CILIARY BODY The Mechanism for Accommodation.—All are agreed that during accommodation the anterior surface of the lens becomes more convex, but how exactly this is brought about has not been definitely proved. The capsule of the lens is attached by the suspensory ligament to the ciliary processes, and any alteration in its tautness will produce an alteration in the form of the elastic lens. Two chief theories have been brought forward. (1) According to the theory of Helmholtz, during the act of accom- modation for near objects the suspensory liga- ment is relaxed. This is chiefly brought about by the annular part of the ciliary muscle, which on contracting causes the ciliary processes to approximate to the axis of the eyeball. Help is also given by the meridional fibres, which, acting on the choroid, draw it and the ciliary body forwards. As a result, the ligament is relaxed, and the elasticity of the lens causes the whole of its anterior surface to become more spherical. (2) According to the more recent theory of T&cherning, the suspensory ligament is tightened during accommodation for near objects. The annular part of the ciliary muscle uses the choroid, to which it is attached, as its fixed point, and draws the ciliary processes towards this, thus tending to cause a posterior dis- placement of the lens. This is prevented by the rest of the ciliary muscle, which, with the sclero-corneal junction as its origin, pulls on the choroid, causing a forward movement of the vitreous. As a result of these actions, the anterior surface of the lens becomes hyperboloid in form; in the neighbourhood of the anterior pole it becomes more convex, with flattening of the more peripheral zones. The evidence in support of these two views is considered in the article on "Accommodation" in vol. i. The Function of the Ciliary Processes.—The ciliary processes have a double function ; they support the lens by means of the suspensory ligament, which is partly attached to them, and they take part in the production of the aqueous humour. Exactly what portion of their struc- ture is engaged in this secretion is still a matter of some doubt. The ciliary glands discovered by Collins are considered by him to be the source of the fluid of the eye, but it is doubtful whether they are sufficiently numerous, and it seems better to consider that the processes as a whole are the structures concerned. It has been suggested that the ciliary glands, of whose existence there seems to be no doubt, secrete pigment. They are found in greater number in dark eyes than in blue eyes, and appear to be absent in albinos. Congenital Abnormalities of the Iris.— Abnormalities in Pigmentation.—Pigment may be completely or almost completely absent from the iris in the condition known as albinism. The eyes look pink, on account of the choroidal reflex shining through the non-pigmented iris. For further description of albinism see " Skin, Pigmentary Affections of." Pigment may be arranged in the iris not only diff'usely, but in small aggregations, giving rise to a mottled appearance. The iris of one eye may remain blue while that of the other eye is pigmented, becoming brown; a sector of one iris may, again, be of a different colour from that of the rest. These conditions are included under the term hetero- chromia. When the heterochromia is complete, the colour of one may correspond to the colour of the father's irides, and that of the other to the colour of the mother's irides. Occasionally small masses of pigment are seen at the pupillary margin ; these are extensions of the uveal pigment of the iris, and are found congenitally as well as in chronic glaucoma. It is normally found in the horse, and is termed ectropion of the uveal pigment. Abnormalities in Form. — Irideremia or Aiiiridia is a more or less complete absence of the iris, a narrow rim alone remaining. It is frequently found in members of the same family and is often accompanied by choroidal coloboma and lenticular opacities. Coloboma iridis consists in a congenital cleft in the iris. It is usually directed downwards, or downwards and slightly inwards, and re- sembles the gap made by iridectomy, except that the constrictor muscle can be seen to line its walls. It varies in extent and frequently occurs in both eyes. It is often accompanied by coloboma of the choroid. It is frequently hereditary, and has been traced through four generations. It has been produced artificially in the offspring of animals, a small sector of whose irides has been caused to become atrophic. Most cases of downward coloboma are probably due to a late closure of the choroidal fissure. On account of this, there is a cleft in the ciliary body, and consequently here either no iris is developed or it is rudimentary. This, however, does not explain the condition of upward colo- boma, nor of a double coloboma in the same eye, an abnormality which has been described. These cases are probably due to some irregularity in the production of the secondary optic vesicle, hindering the development of a sector of the iris. Polycoria is an exceedingly rare condition, in which the natural pupil is divided into two or more apertures by bands of iridic tissue. As many as eight extra pupils have been described, each surrounded by muscular tissue, as show n by the behaviour to atropine. Corectopia is a congenital misplacement of the pupil. It may be situated quite at the peri- phery, close to the sclero-corneal junction. It is a rare deformity, and is frequently accompanied by dislocation of the lens.