285 LABOUR, OPERATIONS—FORCEPS 1. lault in the parturient Powers, primary or secondary, or both. (1) In the Uterine Power.—The uterine muscular fibres may be in a condition of atony or of spasmodic irregular contraction, or their force may be misdirected from some obliquity of the organ. (2) In the Accessory Powers.—There are cases of weak muscularity in the abdominal muscles, or paralysis, or exhaustion, that may render the patient unable to further the involuntary action of the uterus by her straining efforts. More frequently some thoracic mischief renders such efforts undesirable, and the practitioner has to supply the lack of parturient power by traction on the head of the child with forceps. 2. Fault in the parturient Passages. (1) In the Soft Canals.—The forceps is not a good means of hastening delivery in cases of rigidity of the cervix uteri, though it has been thus employed. When the head is pulled through the imperfectly dilated os uteri the lips are very apt to be lacerated. But the instru- ment is often serviceable when the vaginal walls are narrowed from any cause, and again in many cases where there is delay from the rigidity of the perineum, or narrowness of the pudendal aperture. (2) In the Hard Canals.—Pelvic contractions form a large contingent of the cases where the practitioner effects delivery with forceps. The range of contraction in the brim conjugate where the forceps is available is from 4 inches to 4^ inches, or, where the head is not too large, to 3 inches. If the pelvis is of the justo-minor type, the dip of the hind-head, indicative of a marked degree of head-flexion, and the position of the head with its long diameter in the right oblique of the pelvis, give opportunity for the perfectly safe application of the blades along the two sides of the head. Where the pelvis is flattened and the head is placed in the transverse diameter of the brim, care has to be taken lest the blades be applied in the line of the occipito- frontal diameter and a dangerous degree of de- pression be produced. In cases of coccygeal anchylosis, of funnel-shaped pelvis, or where the space is encroached on by tumours to a moderate degree, forceps can frequently be used to bring the head past the contracted plane. 3. Faults in the Passenger. (1) Large Size of Head.—-If we meet with a patient who has had one or two labours that were strictly natural, requiring the use of the forceps in a subsequent confinement, the cause of the difficulty is likely to be found in the greater bulk of the body passing, and notably in the increased size of the foetal head. The increase in bulk may be simply the larger size of the male over the female head, or of an unusually large child of either sex, as is seen in some cases of protracted gestation. Or the head may present such a degree of ossification of the bones as to interfere with the moulding which allows of the expulsion even of a tight- fitting head under natural efforts. In these cases the head comes down with the occiput and triangular fontanelle markedly depressed— the large head finding its way through a normal pelvis, as the normal head makes its way through an undersized pelvis, with an exag- gerated degree of flexion. Such enlargements of the head form a very fair group of cases for extraction with the forceps; but the instru- ment becomes dangerous in its application to cases of morbid enlargement, as in hydro- cephalus. It is not easy to define the degree of enlargement at which danger begins ; but in any case where the operator has satisfied him- self that he has not taken an antero-posterior grasp of the head, and yet finds that the handles are not easily approximated, he may be sure that to persevere with the use of the instru- ment will be dangerous both to child and mother. (2) Malposition of the Head. — Where the head in one of the posterior positions fails to make progress, forceps will often serve to bring- about its descent and rotation; and where the occiput has rotated backwards it often becomes necessary to extract the head artificially. (3) Malpresentation of the Head.—When we meet with a brow or face presentation at the commencement of labour, and have reason to distrust the natural powers, we may give mother and child the best chance by turning as soon as the cervix is fully dilated, or as soon as possible after the membranes have broken. But where the head so presenting has come into or through the brim and is delayed in the pelvis, we must have recourse to forceps. Care has to be taken in these face cases to apply the blades to the sides of the child's head, otherwise the points of the instrument may easily do serious damage to the structures in the infant's neck. B. Dangerous Labours.—Special danger may arise calling for immediate delivery, and the forceps gives us the control of the labour. 1. Maternal Compylications.—In many cases of labour complicated with utero-placental haemorrhage, with rupture of the uterus, with convulsions, chest disease, syncope, etc., the artificial delivery that is urgently indicated can be most safely effected, both for mother and child, with forceps. 2. Foetal Complications.—Again the instru- ment is invaluable in cases of irreducible prolapsus funis, when the waters have escaped for some time and the head is entering the pelvis, as well as in some cases of malformation of the infant. Mode of Employment. — 1. Preliminary Measures.—A practitioner having made up his mind that forceps delivery is necessary in the interest of the mother or child or both, (1) should intimate to the responsible attendants his intention to employ the instrument; and