LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 235 vertex tends not to diminish the transverse diameters of the head, excepting by the over- riding of the posterior parietal bone by the anterior, and by grooving and dinting of the bones, and these changes in the shape of the head may be pi'oduced whether it comes first or last (Fig. 52). To this it is replied that delivery with the feet first involves so much p risk to the child's life, from pressure on the cord, etc., that the re- sults are better when the child is delivered by forceps. Statistics show that this has been the case in some ma- ternity charities. The explanation is, that FIG. 52.-Change in shape of more skill is required head produced by downward to deliver a child alive pressure with vertex in ad- • i i vance. Dotted lines, aa, bb, by turnuig than by cc, normal shape of head ; f^ivpris! TTnr^^pnQ rIp conthiuous hnes, 1, 2, shape lO'<-t^P^- -TOrceps ue of head altered by pressure livery only needs hard from above. (After Galapin.) n- i ^ i- (See also Fig. 24.) pullmg ; but for the delivery of a living- child by turning it is essential that the right time should be chosen, and that extraction should be skilful and rapid. If the accoucheur fail to recognise the right time for version and bungles extraction, the child will be dead. I think that in flat pelves delivery by podalic version, skilfully done, gives better results than forceps. For success, the bag of membranes must, if possible, be preserved until the os uteri is fully dilated; if this cannot be done, the OS should be dilated with the water-bag of Champetier de Ribes. When this bag has been expelled, the child should be turned and the head quickly extracted by combined jaw and shoulder traction. There is one exception to the foregoing state- ment. If the head has engaged in the brim in the most favourable position for passing it, this state of things cannot be improved upon. The most favourable position is that in which the long diameter of the head is transverse, and there is so much Naegele obliquity that the sagittal suture feels as if distant about f of an inch from the sacral promontory. In this position the diameter which passes the brim is a transverse subparietal superparietal diameter, which is rather less than the biparietal, and is further diminished by the posterior-lying parietal bone being overlapped by the anterior, and being flattened by the pressure of the sacral promontory. Experience has shown that a head thus engaged in the brim can generally be delivered with forceps. Faults in the Soft Passages Delivery may be delayed by causes ivhich pre- vent the proper dilatation of the soft parts. By many writers (especially old writers) " rigidity " of the cervix, or, more briefly but incorrectly, " rigid OS," has been described as a cause of lingering labour—a term which, as used, implies that there are cases in which delivery is morbidly delayed because a healthy cervix will not dilate ; and various methods of treatment—drugs to be swallowed, medications to be applied, and mani- pulations to be performed—have been recom- mended, having for their object the more speedy opening up of the healthy cervical canal. It is rash to make negative statements, because they cannot be proved. But I must go as far as I can in this direction, and say that I have never seen a case of labour, otherwise normal, delayed because the cervix would not dilate; nor have I ever read a report of a labour described in such a way as to convince me that this was the case. I have read plenty in which it seemed to me that the only fault was that the doctor was in a hurry, and the dilatation was not quick enough to please him ; but this is not enough to prove that it was abnormal. A healthy cervix in a natural labour will always dilate if time be given ; and the time required depends on the forces which eftect dila- tation. The proper treatment of slow dilatation of the cervix is to search for the cause of slow dilatation, and treat that if treatment other than by time be required. The Causes of Slow Dilatation.—It may be (1) from uterine inertia; the uterine contractions, which ought to pull up the lower uterine segment, and so pull open the os uteri, and afterwards drive the bag of membranes into it, are weak and infrequent. I have elsewhere described the treatment of this condition. It may be (2) that the bag of membranes which ought to enter the OS uteri, and stretch it open with gradually in- creasing power, is absent, either because the membranes have burst pjrematurely (the common cause), or because there is too little liquor- amnii (a rare thing). If so, dilatation is slow, because dilatation has to be accomplished solely by the vertical fibres of the uterine body pvilling up the lower uterine segment vnitil the os uteri is large enough to admit the presenting part of the child. The first stage of labour is then long, to the great annoyance of patient and accoucheur. If the head or breech of the child present, the pelvis is normal, and the child of average size, with time the presenting part of the child will come down into the os uteri and dilate it; and the only treatment required is to sustain the nerve force of the patient by food and sleep. The patient should take as much food as she can keep down ; and if she feels tired, but cannot sleep, a sedative should be given, either opium or chloral. Some think that chloral has a specific eftect, besides its utility as a sedative, in helping dilatation of the cervix. This may be so, but I know not that it has been proved. If used, a full dose, 5ss, should be given. A grain of opium may be given, or the opium and the chloral may be combined. With this treatment the cervix will in time