490 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES reach the liver and establish a freer vascularity of the organ by way of blood-vessels from the abdominal wall. A conservation of this nature is frequently established by pathological change, but there can be no doubt that surgical inter- ference in this direction should be much more frequently practised than it is. The peritoneum over the liver is accredited with the power of withstanding rough handling better than any other part of the membrane, and short of stitching the liver to the wall of the abdomen, a mere ruffling of the adjacent serous surfaces would bring about the salutary adhesive process. Causation. — Traumatic Perihepatitis. — In- flammation of the antero-superior aspect of the liver, more especially in the neighbourhood of the costal margin, the z'esult of a blow or pressure, is by no means uncommon. In the normal state the liver protrudes beyond the rib cartilages in the epigastrium, and here the result of bruising of the liver and of the peritoneal covering is most often found. The simplest form of traumatic perihepatitis is that met with as the result of tight-lacing. The portions of the thoracic and abdominal wall covering the liver are held immovable, and at the same time pressed firmly against the liver by the tight garments; but the liver is moved to and fro by the contractions of the diaphragm, with the result that the opposite surfaces are bruised and chafed and a low form of circum- scribed peritonitis is set up. Injuries of the liver by fractured ribs must involve its jseritoneal covering, which splits like a kid glove over a clenched fist. When the liver is ruptured the peritoneum may or may not give way to an extent com- mensurate with the injury; the rent in the peritoneum may fall considerably short of the tear in the liver, causing the blood to escape into a more or less complete bag of hepatic peritoneum. The rectus muscle in the epi- gastrium protects the liver beneath from in- jury ; but over the fundus of the gall-bladder, where the parietal tissues are wholly aponeurotic, little or no protection is aiTorded against a blow in this region, and the frequency of peritoneal adhesions round the gall-bladder, especially when the organ is distended, is thus partly accounted for. The liver, when struck by a blow in front, may rupture posteriorly or on the under surface only, and a local peritonitis may resolve itself into firm fibrous adhesions to neighbouring organs. Primary perihepatitis is, in the opinion of the writer, a condition met with especially in the Tropics, as the result of exposvu-e to cold. Just as pleurisy may occur as a primary disease independent of pneumonia, so a localised or patchy perihepatitis may occur on the liver and from similar causes. In the Tropics it is the abdominal rather than the thoracic organs which are called upon to resist climatic influences, whereas in temperate climates the opposite is the case. Exposure of the abdomen, more especially at night, may end in an intestinal flux, or may give rise to acute pain in the right lower costal region, associated with increase of temperature, with hurried, shallow breathing, etc., signs and symptoms closely resembling pleurisy of the right side. We are apt to assume that the ailment is primarily pleuritic and secondarily perihepatitic, and even the friction heard through the chest wall may be peritoneal instead of pleuritic; yet are we slow to ascribe the friction soimd to peritonitis. A careful investigation may elucidate the fact that perihepatitis, and not pleurisy, is the lesion, or that the inflammatory changes started together and not consecutively, as is so often assumed. Secondary perihepatitis may be the result of lesions commencing within the liver. A hydatid tumour may excite a localised perihepatitis as it extends beyond the liver area ; but this is not invariably the case, and in consequence of the absence of a benign perihepatitis the contents of the hydatid may find their way into the peri- toneal cavity. In liver abscesses similar pheno- mena may develop—the presence or absence of adhesions determining the course of the pus and the safety of the patient. Cancerous and tuber- cular infiltrations of the liver seldom cause well- marked hepatic adhesions; there may be no appearance of the exudation on the liver in either of these conditions, and even when it does occur it usually consists of weak adhesions between merely the apices of nodules and the parietal peritoneum. Sj'philitic, amyloid, hypersemic, and inflamed conditions of the liver may each be associated with or may set up a concomitant perihepatitis. Pathology and Pathological Changes.—• Non-infective perihepatitis has in the light of recent pathology come to be regarded as an impossibility. Bacterial invasion is at the root of inflammatory changes in the peritoneum as well as of all other serous membranes. In connection with the peritoneum certain bacteria are cA^er ready to launch themselves upon an altered or abnormal portion of its surface; of these the bacillus coli communis is the most commonly met with. Resident in a normal state within the whole length of the alimentary canal, with physiological but with no pathological powers, yet this very bacillus, in altered conditions, may become pathogenetic to a degree. Should the walls of the intestinal tract become diseased, the bacillus coli travels beyond its natural limits, bearing in or around it a toxic agency. On the other hand, should any portion of the abdominal contents depart from the normal, thither will the bacillus drift and set up inflammatory or destructive changes.