LIVER, DISEASES OF 461 diet may be taken. Abstinence from spicy, rich, and irritating food is most important, as fermentation and absorption of toxic products are thus minimised. Milk fulfils these essentials, and is, moreover, a good diuretic. Fatty and sugary foods have the disadvantage that they may lead to dyspepsia and the production of fatty acids. Meat and much proteid food, tea and coffee, are also harmful. Intestinal catarrh and fermentation should be prevented ; although antiseptics, such as sali- cylate of bismuth, salol, ^-naphthol, may be employed with this object, it is probably better to use a simple saline, such as magnesium or sodium sulphate with small doses of calomel, scammony, or euonymin. Water should be taken freely, so as to stimulate diuresis and excretion of toxic products. Plenty of fresh air, and, unless there is ascites or some other deterring element, moderate exercise should be recommended, so as to im- prove the general health and resistance. A course at Carlsbad, Vichy, or Marienbad may be taken with benefit. Drugs.—Iodide of potassium is usually given, and, no doubt, does good in syphilitic disease of the liver simulating cirrhosis. Many writers believe it does good in genuine cirrhosis. It is better to give the less depressing iodide of sodium. Chloride of ammonium is an hepatic stimulant and may be given a trial, but it is not more successful than iodides. Arsenic should be avoided. There is no drug that has the power of stimulating the compen- satory hyperplasia of the liver-cells. Symptomatic treatment is necessary in haema- temesis {vide p. 458), ascites, and in the terminal toxaemia. Ascites.—-When ascites gives rise to any em- barrassment of respiration, to collapse of the bases of the lungs, or to haemoptysis, the ab- domen should at once be tapped. Formerly tapping was postponed as long as possible, because peritoneal infection was sometimes thus set up; but with strict antiseptic precautions this objection no longer holds, and paracentesis should be done, since the mechanical or pressure effects of ascites are harmful. The trocar should be a small one of Southey's pattern; the large trocars formerly employed removed the fluid very rapidly, and thus sometimes produced collapse. The trocar is usually introduced in the linea alba between the umbilicus and the pubes in a dull area; care should be taken to avoid puncturing a distended urinary bladder. It has been suggested that the trocar should be introduced to the left of the middle line, so as to avoid wounding the caecum or liver, but this is hardly necessary. The fluid should be allowed to drain away through an india-rubber tube for twelve to eighteen hours. During this opera- tion a bandage or binder should be applied to the abdomen and tightened from time to time; it should be kept on for some days after paracentesis. Continuous drainage has been tried, but is not successful, and may be dangerous. When the ascites is comparatively small, it is worth while trying to remove it by purgatives and diuretics. It is probable, however, that they largely do good by removing toxic bodies from the organism, which are the cause of the ascites. Saline purges, such as magnesium sulphate or jalap powder, have been commonly employed. Strong purgatives are not without the danger that they may set up or increase intestinal catarrh and exhaust the patient's strength, and so do more harm than good. Calomel in ^ to -g- grain doses, euonymin, and scammony may be tried. Diuretics.—Copaiba is often successful, but has the disadvantage that it may set up gastric disturbance. A pill containing mercury, squills, and digitalis is a good preparation and may be safely employed. Digitalis, caffeine, bitartrate and acetate of potash, and spirits of juniper have been recommended, but, with the exception of the first, are of rather doubtful benefit. Recently urea, extract of liver substance, and asparagus have been said to have had some success. Personally 1 have found urea very disappointing. The diuretic action of milk has already been pointed out. No attempt to restrict the amount of fluid taken should be made. At the same time that moderate purgation and diuresis is being induced, iodide of potas- sium should be persisted in on the chance of the disease being in reality syphilitic. The surgical treatment of ascites has recently been introduced by Morison and Drummond ; the abdomen is opened, and artificial peritoneal adhesions set up by rubbing the opposed surfaces of peritoneum, and fixing the omentum to the parietal peritoneum. The avowed object was to increase the collateral circulation between the portal and the general systemic veins {vide p. 454), but it may act by increasing the nutrition of the liver-cells, and allowing them to undergo compensatory hyperplasia. The operation is on its trial; of 15 cases sub- mitted to this treatment 5 have been cured, while improvement for a time has taken place in a few of the remainder. When toxaemia becomes marked, very little can be done. The bowels should be kept freely open, the kidneys should be stimulated by diuretics, and plenty of water should be given by the mouth or by enemata. Intravenous transfusion is followed by temporary improve- ment. Haemorrhages and itching of the skin may be combated by calcium chloride, grs. xx. given for a few doses.