ITALY 50 lta.ly. See Balneology ; Therapeutics, Health Eesorts. Itch. *See Scabies. Itch, Cuba.n.—A mild form of smallpox, regarded at first as a new disease. Itch, Dhobie. See Skin Diseases of THE Tropics (From Vegetable Parasites, Burmese Ringworm). Itching'. See Prurigo and Pruritus; see also Diabetes Mellitus (Symptoms, Skin); Gout (Ciitarieotis System); Nephritis {Chronic, Symptoms, Nervous). Iter.—A narrow passage leading from one cavity of an organ to another, e.g. the aqueduct of Sylvius in the brain leading from the third to the fourth ventricle. Itrol.—The citrate of silver, an antiseptic salt used in the treatment of gonorrhoea and of some skin diseases. Ixodes.—-A variety of acarus; wood-ticks. See Scabies {Other Acari). IXOdiasiS. — Tick-fever, due to a tick (probably Argas Acari). See Scabies {Other Acari). Iza.1.—A hydrocarbon (dark brown liquid) obtained from coal, acting as an antiseptic; it has been used in dysentery as an intestinal injection, and as a disinfectant for typhoid stools; it has a characteristic " sheep-dip" smell. Ja.bora,ndi. See also Diaphoretics; Eclampsia ; Pharmacology ; etc. — Jaborandi Folia, the dried leaflets of Pilocarpihs jahoi-andi, from South America. The most important con- stituents are—1. Pilocarpine, a colourless syrupy alkaloid, insoluble in water. The leaves should contain from J to 1 per cent, of pilo- carpine. 2. Jaborine, a liquid alkaloid, with an action resembling that of atropine and, therefore, antagonistic to pilocarpine. 3. A volatile oil. Preparations—1. Tinctura Jaborandi. Dose 3. 2. Extractum Jaborandi Liquidum. Dose—5-15 m. 3. Pilocarpina; Nitras, a white crystalline powder, soluble 1 in 9 of water, and 1 in 50 of alcohol. Dose—J^.-^ gr. by the mouth ; gr. hypodermically.' Pilocarpine has been employed externally as an ointment or lotion to promote the growth of the hair. On account of its myotic influence on the pupil it is of great value in the treat- ment of some eye conditions, especially those associated with increased intraocular tension. It is dropped into the eye in solutions of from ^-4 grs. of pilocarpine nitrate to the ounce of water. It is less powerful in its action than eserine, and is especially indicated where the treatment has to be kept up for a long time. The daily administration by hypodermic in- jection of gr. of pilocarpine is recommended in the treatment of opacities of the vitreous humour. It is also said to be a good remedy in tobacco and alcoholic amblyopia. Internally, pilocarpine has been and still is widely used as a diaphoretic in Bright's disease and in uraemia. The profuse diaphoresis aids in the elimination of the urtemic poison; and the extraction of fluid from the body and the lowering of the general blood pressure remove the strain from the kidneys. For this purpose it is usually given hypodermically in a dose of ^ gr., the patient being wrapped up in blankets, sur- rounded by hot bottles, and given hot drinks. On account of the depressant effect of the drug, strong coffee or other stimulant should be given at the same time. In children and in the aged, and in patients of any age who exhibit signs of cardiac weakness, pilocarpine is absolutely contraindicated. Where there is present any oedema of the lungs it must not be given, as the great increase of this oedema caused by pilocarpine may rapidly prove fatal, especially if there is cardiac weakness as well. Within recent years the tendency has been to employ other methods of inducing diaphoresis in kidney disease. In doses of gr. pilocarpine may, by stimulating the atonic sweat glands, check profuse night sweats where atropine has failed. In cases of aural vertigo the hypodermic injec- tion of pilocarpine every few days, in sufficient dose to produce slight salivation, is stated to give good results. It has been strongly recom- mended for the relief of itching in jaundice, administered hypodermically in doses of from j^g- to ^ gr. Its use in the treatment of pleurisy with effusion has been entirely abandoned. Nitrate of pilocarpine is greatly preferable for general puposes to the tincture and fluid extract of jaborandi; the latter are more uncertain in composition, they cause more nausea and depression, and they contain jaborine, an antagonistic alkaloid. Jacket, Plaster.—A jacket made of plaster-of-Paris, and used in cases of spinal disease to form a rigid support for the head and shoulders, and so take the direct .pressure off the spine. See Spine, Surgical Affections {Spinal Ca7'ies, Treatment). Jacket, Straight. — A short coat reaching to the waist, made of strong material, used for the purpose of confining the arms of the insane ; it may or may not have sleeves; the straight-waistcoat or camisole. Jacksonian Epilepsy.—An epileptic condition in which the convulsions are due to a lesion of the cerebral cortex, are localised at first, becoming general later, and are often unaccom-