174 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM and tend to throw the lower end of the body upwards. If this displacement is so great as to bring the child into a transverse lie, the shape of the uterus will soon tend to convert this into a longitudinal one, either cephalic or podalic. If the child falls back into its original lie, the same process may be repeated again and again; ■ First lumbar Utero-vesical pouch — Symphysis - Bladder'- FIG. 20.—Uterus at term. but if the longitudinal lie happens to be the cephalic, the child with its legs uppermost has nothing resistant to kick against, and move- ments of its legs will have little effect in moving its lower end away from the fundus. The child is then, to start with, lying with its head flexed and its occiput forwards and to the left. It does not, in ordinary cases, engage till the membranes have ruptured. At this moment a diameter near the occipito- frontal diameter is lying in the plane of the brim. The expelling force at this stage, that is, after rupture of the membranes, consists in the uterine contractions, exerted, since the fundus uteri is not yet in contact with the breech of the child, as a general intra-uterine pressure acting over the whole svirface of the child excepting the vertex, which is in contact with the lower uterine segment. Downward pressure comes to bear on the area of the vertex which overlies the os, and is, therefore, unsupported, and this pressure is acting in the axis of the uterus practically through the centre of the child's head. Flerion.—The head is lying with a diameter near the occipito-frontal across the lower uterine segment. In this relation to the parturient - Douglas pouch Anus Vaginal and urethral orifices canal the head is comparable to an egg lying in an elastic tube with its long axis not coinciding with the axis of the tube. If the egg is moved backwards and forwards, and friction reduced as far as possible by lubrication, it will soon come to lie with its long axis pretty exactly in that of the tube, and its small axis across it. In the case of the head the long axis is the men to-vertical, and any move in the direction of accom- modation, such as is made by the egg, would mean, in the state of partial flexion in which the head is now, a further flexion. The head then be- comes more flexed, and the suboccipito- frontal diameter, the smallest available dia- meter of the head, owing to the attach- ment of the head to the trunk, takes the place of one nearer the occipito-frontal, and lies across the tube (Fig. 21). This movement of flexion is assisted by the obliquity of the uterus. The uterus is, in the greater number of instances, inclined to the right, and any pressure acting on the base of the skull, and not at right angles to its surface, will tend to depress that end of the skull to- wards which the line of pressure is directed. In the position of the head under consideration the occiput is to the left, and therefore becomes de- pressed; that is, the head is flexed. It is likely that the uterine obliquity has compara- tively little power in this direction before the fundus comes into con- tact with the breech, and fcjetal-axis-pressure^ comes into play; but that it has some is shown by the fact that left dorsal positions predomi- 1 Fcetal-axis-pressure.—This is a downward pressure exercised by the fundal end of the uterus on the fostus in the long axis of the latter. It is made possible by the stiffening of the child produced by the contraction of the circular fibres of the uterus. It occurs after the greater part of the waters has drained away, and the fundus comes into contact with the breech. Fig. 21. —Effect of inward pressure of walls of liirth- canal on moderately flexed head.