LIFE INSURANCE 416 deformities was still active or quiescent. Whether the proposer has been vaccinated and revaccinated, or had smallpox, are important points. Respiratory System. —Probably diseases of the respiratory system are responsible for more of the deaths of insured persons than those of any other system in the body. Of the diseases of this system the most important are phthisis, bronchitis, asthma, pneumonia, and pleurisy. A person actually suffering from any of these diseases shoiild, of course, be rejected by the medical examiner, although it might be quite possible for the same proposer to be admitted after he recovered from the last four diseases, provided his family history was favourable and his recovery complete; but it must always be kept in mind that a person who had one of these diseases is probably more liable to another attack, and especially is more liable to the onset of phthisis. This is more especially the case with regard to pleurisy, and therefore a candidate for assurance who has once been affected with pleurisy should be subjected to a very searching examination for the remains of the disease or the early traces of phthisis. So with bronchitis and asthma, and also with pneumonia, although probably in a lesser degree. But phthisis is by far the most important of the diseases of the respiratory system, and in spite of the fact that insured lives are selected and submitted to an examina- tion of the chest when admitted to insurance, in the words of Sir Robert Christison: " Con- sumption is of all single diseases the most important in relation to life insurance." The statistics of insurance companies show how important it is for the insurers to reject all lives likely to be affected with consumption. They are in most cases a loss to the companies. The figures also show that the companies derive the benefit from selection for at least some years after the lives are admitted. This is the ex- planation of the fact that a large number of insTired consumptives survive to a comparatively late life for consumptives. The figures of the companies bring out another fact, that very few of the cases insured above forty years of age die from consumption, showing that if persons re- main healthy till middle life they are not nearly so likely to be affected with consumption. This is a fact of very great importance when the proposer has a family history showing a pre- disposition to consumption. Experience shows that if proposers have reached thirty, and still more so thirty-five or forty years of age, or if they have well passed the age at which their relatives died or suffer from the disease, there is much less risk in accepting their lives for assurance. When there is a suspicion of a tendency to consumption in a candidate, the general de- velopment and expansion of the chest during respiration ought to be carefully noted, as well as the weight and the pulse-rate. An abnor- mally high pulse-rate is often an early in- dication of the onset of the disease. Weak digestion and disturbances of the digestive organs generally also often precede the onset of more evident symptoms. The late Sir Robert Christison, in discussing this question, made the following statement, and it is doubtful whether our knowledge at the present day could enable us to alter it much in any way. He stated: " General delicacy—a state of health described as ' toler- ably good,' or 'pretty good,' or 'not robust,' a great liability to 'slight common colds,' or 'rheumatic pains,' or 'bilious complaints,' a pulse habitually frequent, are all suspicious circumstances in one whose family has suffered at all from consumption. Among these par- ticulars I would call attention especially to a liability to indigestion as a serious ground of doubt when only one member of a family has been cut off by consumption. Either frequent indigestion favours the development of consump- tion in the predisposed by further impairing a previously doubtful constitution, or simply the two liabilities may be each the direct result of the same constitutional defect." Proposers with the actual symptoms of chest disease cannot be accepted as healthy lives. Whether such can be admitted when the attack has been well passed will depend on whether the recovery has been so complete as to leave no trace behind it, on the family history, and on the habits and occupation as well as the other circumstances of the individual. Heart and Circulatory System.—The question of heart disease in relation to life assurance has given rise to much discussion, but I doubt whether we have yet much evidence to guide us as to which lives affected with valvular disease of the heart ought to be accepted, and which ought to be rejected. There can be little doubt, as pointed out by Sir William Gairdner and others, that some diseases of the heart live to a good old age—and many medical men will also admit that a heart murmur which is distinctly present may in the course of time entirely disappear. In spite of these facts, we have not yet got sufficient data to guide us in arriving at the most important decision for the insurance com- panies, viz., which are most likely to live to a good old age, and which heart murmurs are most likely to disappear, leaving the heart in a healthy condition. The time may come when we will be able to classify lives with cardiac lesions, so that those most likely to live to an old age can be picked out from the others, but I am afraid at the present time our medical knowledge does not enable us to go so far. The presence of a cardiac murmur indicating organic disease of the heart must, therefore, be taken