LEPROSY 385 hard, raised, abrupt borders. The ulceration may extend round the whole limb. During the development of the disease the lympathic glands in the groins, axillse, and neck become swollen, sometimes to a considerable extent. The swellings are indolent; in the neck they may produce difficulty in breathing or swallowing. Sooner or later the nerve-trunks are attacked by the leprous infiltration. Hansen and Looft state that the facial, radial, ulnar, median, and peroneal nerves are always diseased, and they have found that the nerves of the extremities are affected throughout their whole length. " The affection is severe only at certain places, namely, where the nerves run superficially over bones or joints, as the median at the wrist, the ulnar at the elbow, and the peroneal where it crosses the fibula." The early stage of affection of the nerves is characterised by much pain, and, as the infiltra- tion leads to atrophy of the nerve tubules, to anaesthesia. There may be repeated attacks in the nerves as they become the seat of fresh infection, and the patient may suffer from frequent painful attacks through the course of years. The nodules in nerves are often painful when first developed, but sensation is deadened later. The testicle, liver, and spleen are stated by Hansen and Looft to be always affected in tubercular leprosy. The duration of the eruptions and the inter- vals between them vary greatly in diff"erent patients. There may be sometimes several in the course of a year, or only one or two in the whole course of the disease. The more frequent the eruptions the more severe is the disease. The mucous membrane of the tongue, cheeks, hard and soft palate, uvula, and tonsils are in time affected, the patient becomes hoarse, and if bronchi catarrh develops, respiration is much interfered with. Tubercles form in the mucous membrane of the nose, particularly over the part which covers the septum, causing destruction of the nostrils and of the cartilage. Dr. Hillis, who gave much attention to the condition of the throat in this disease, states that in tubercular leprosy the first throat symptoms occur during the febrile attack. The fauces, uvula, and back of the throat become uniformly red and con- gested, or glazed looking, and the patches seen at the back of the pharynx and roof of the mouth have raised, crescentic edges. Such patches are pathognomonic of leprosy, and, when combined with the thickened condition of the mucous membrane of the nose, explain the epistaxis. After a varying period of some months the interior of the mouth is found to present a dull white, pallid appearance, extend- ing not only to the larynx (see p. 347), but even to the bifurcation of the trachea. The pharynx becomes the seat of extensive VOL. V ulceration which may destroy the uvula, and lead to hypertrophy of the submucous con- nective tissue of the epiglottis and ulceration of the vocal cords. Leprous tubercles of the mucous membrane may begin as white or opaline spots, but are usually of a pale red or livid colour. On the tongue the disease may appear as isolated tubercles, or simply as opaline spots. Eventually this organ becomes thickened, raspberry-looking, and lobulated, the mouth of the patient emitting a foetid odour. The leprous affections of the eye have been well described by Dr. C. F. Pollock in a book entitled Lejorosy as a Cause of Blindness. He states that the disease in the eyeball is largely ciliary in origin, the infiltrations spreading through the cornea. The anterior chamber is invaded from the angle between the cornea and the iris, the iris is attacked from its periphery, and the ciliary body is then involved, the disease passing to the neighbouring portion of the choroid and the ora serrata of the retina, causing blindness. Both sexes would appear to be equally liable to leprosy, but from their different habits of life men appear to be more exposed to con- tagion than women, and some statistics show a considerably larger proportion in the male than in the female sex. In tubercular leprosy there is nearly always nephritis present, and amyloid degeneration of the kidneys, liver, spleen, and intestine are frequent. Hansen and Looft state that in many ex- aminations of the blood they have never noticed anything remarkable in the form and relation of blood corpuscles. Recovery is possible, and there are well- authenticated cases of recovery in tubercular leprosy, but the disease is usually fatal. The average duration of life is said to be eight to twelve years, although in some instances the patient may be carried off" quickly by acute leprosy, or may live twenty or more years. The cause of death is usually some complication, lepers being particularly liable to tuberculosis. Symptoms of Lepra Maculo-Ancesthetica.— In the cases of leprosy in which the manifestations of the disease are chiefly confined to the nerves, the affection runs a milder course. Either the bacillary poison is less active in this form, or there is a stronger constitutional resistance on the part of the patient; but even in nerve leprosy the first infection of the system by the toxin frequently produces appreciable effects, rigors, pallor, and depression being observed. Frequently, however, these symptoms are either not present or are so slight that they are over- looked. It will be convenient to describe separately the chief characteristic symptoms. These are spots, buUse, anaesthesia, motor paralysis, and absorption of tissue with mutilation. The spots 25