LIVER, DISEASES OF 449 below that point. The pressure of the enlarged organ pushes the costal arch out. On palpa- tion there is general but not any localised tenderness. There is no enlargement of the gall-bladder. The enlargement of the liver is, generally speaking, progressive; it may vary from time to time, and late in the disease may sometimes diminish in bulk from some degree of contraction of the fibrous tissue, probably from secondary multilobular cirrhosis. The spleen is very considerably enlarged, much more so than in common cirrhosis. The enlargement is more marked in children in accordance with the fact that its capsule is more distensible than in adults. A special form of hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis has been de- scribed by Gilbert and Fournier as the juvenile type or cirrhose biliare splenomegalique. The spleen may indeed be not only relatively but absolutely heavier than the liver. Ausculta- tion over the spleen sometimes reveals a soft blowing murmur. Three forms of the disease have been de- scribed : (i.) the common one, in which both organs are much enlarged; (ii.) a form in which the liver is chiefly prominent ; and (iii.) the one where the splenic enlargement is espe- cially marked. The splenic enlargement may precede the hepatic, and may occur in some members of a family in which others have the fully developed disease. Thus in a family recorded by Boinet the father and two children had hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis, while three other children had enlarged spleens. There is no enlargement of the subcutaneous veins of the abdomen, and ascites is not present except in the last stages, and then usually only in a slight degree. At first and for a considerable time the general health is often well preserved. After repeated exacerbations the condition advances, and as wasting sets in the patient goes down hill. Death may occur from intercurrent disease, from icterus gravis, or gradually in coma. Fatal haematemesis is very rare indeed. Diagnosis. — In cases of common cirrhosis with big livers and intercurrent jaundice the diagnosis depends on the jaundice being transi- tory and not permanent, on the slight degree of splenic enlargement, and on the presence of signs of common cirrhosis such as ascites and enlargement of the subcutaneous veins of the abdomen. It cannot, however, be maintained that the two diseases (portal and biliary cir- rhosis) are always distinct either anatomically or clinically. Sometimes they are combined, and not infrequently the diseases overlap in the same way as the parenchymatous and interstitial forms of nephritis. In hfemochromatosis, a condition where there is widespread pigmentation of the body with VOL. v secondary cirrhosis of the liver and pancreas, the liver is enlarged, and many of the symptoms resemble those of hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis. The skin, however, though pigmented is not jaundiced, and in five-sixths of the cases there is glycosuria (bronzed diabetes). In cases of obstructive jaundice the liver may be enlarged and swollen from retained bile; but this condition differs from hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis in the absence of bile from the faeces, in the fact that there is no splenic enlargement, and often in the presence of an enlarged gall- bladder. When a gall-stone lies in the common duct and gives rise to chronic jaundice, some bile often passes by the stone and enters the duo- denum, so that the faeces are not necessarily pale. The spleen, however, is not enlarged; this and the history of severe attacks of biliary colic should differentiate it from hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis. In prolonged catarrhal jaundice the spleen is but slightly enlarged, and bile is absent from the faeces. In prolonged cases of what appear to be in- fectious jaundice the condition is indistinguish- able from that of hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis, except in the fact that recovery occurs ; in other words, the diseases are practically identical in nature though not in their results. In Weil's disease the clinical course is rapid and acute, whereas in hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis it is a matter of years, not of days. Malaria, which has been regarded by Lan- cereaux as the cause of hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis, can be eliminated by examination of the blood and by the failure of quinine to affect the course of the disease. Some rather exceptional cases of syphilitic disease of the liver, with chronic jaundice and very considerable enlargement of the liver and spleen, may imitate hypertrophic biliary cir- rhosis. Syphilitic lesions elsewhere, albuminuria as pointing to lardaceous disease as the cause of splenic enlargement, irregularity of the surface of the liver from gummata, the presence of enlarged veins on the abdomen, and the beneficial effects of antisyphilitic treatment, point to syphilis. Another point is the absence of leucocytosis in syphilis and its presence in hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis. Treatment.—In the early stages an attempt may be made to put the patient in more healthy surroundings, and to remove him from the conditions, among which the water-supply may play a part, that favoured the onset of the disease. The patient should avoid cold, especially damp cold, and should be warmly clad. A course at Carlsbad, Vichy, Marienbad, or Kis- singen may be tried. It is most important that the diet should be of a simple character and free from spices or 29