413 LIFE INSURANCE mortality amongst insured females was greater than amongst males. In 1869 a still further advance was made in the statistics of mortality and " expectation of life." A table was compiled by the Institute of Actuaries, which is sometimes called The New Expectation table,^ sometimes the Institute of Actiiaries' table. Twenty offices aided in the compiling of this table. The data were ulti- mately published in four great divisions—1st, healthy lives male; 2nd, healthy lives female ; 3rd, diseased lives, male and female ; 4th, lives exposed to extra risk from climate, occupation, etc. The assurance companies at first made very little attempt to select healthy lives; at least no medical examination of the applicant was made, nothing more than an inquiry as to whether he was in good health. A medical man at first was not recognised as necessary. As recently as 1815, according to the form of the Scottish Widows' Fund Society, all that was necessary was that the applicant should appear before a medical man, who certified that he was apparently in good health, and that he had never suffered from gout, asthma, or any other disease which shortened life. About 1830 this society required a certificate from the medical attendant of the applicant, and a series of questions about his health and habits had to be answered. About the same time the office appointed their own medical adviser, who helped the manager and directors to select the lives. The society also required certificates as to health and character from private friends of the applicant. In 1835 all applicants had to appear before the medical adviser of the company as well as to have a series of questions answered by their own medical attendant. The agent and two friends had also to give a report on the life (Muirhead). This is practically the method of selection adopted by most of the best insurance companies at the present day, with the exception that it is only in cases where a report from the medical attendant of the applicant may throw more light on his family and previous history, that a special report from the medical attendant is called for. It seems to be pretty generally recognised that the insurance companies have in The New Experience tables a fairly accurate estimate of the expectation of life of healthy persons at different ages, and that the premiums that the insured have to pay are fair both to the insurer and the insured, when the insured is what is called an "average life." ^ The tables for convenience are designated in a particular way, H for healthy lives, D for diseased lives, with a smaller letter above to denote the sex : thus, H"', healthy lives male ; H", healthy lives female; H""", healthy lives male and female. The H""*", the committee say, may be fairly considered a standard table for life assurance. But when under-average lives come to be considered, the problem as to whether such lives ought to be "loaded" with an extra premium, and how much " load" is to be put on, is one of great difficulty, and one which has given rise to much discussion. Some have maintained that the benefits of a medical ex- amination of the applicants are lost in a very few years. It is unnecessary to enter into all the arguments which have been used in favour of this contention; but it has been as strongly maintained, on the other hand, that although much of the benefit is lost after the first few years, still the influence of selection is felt even in the older policies. The task before a medical examiner for an insurance company is, therefore, to determine whether the life of the applicant for insurance is an average healthy life having average expectation of life, or an under-average life having an expectation of life below the average —and if the latter, whether the life can be " loaded" to such an extent that such loading would be fair both to the insured and the insurer. Statistics of under-average lives have, of course, been prepared, but much yet requires to be done in order to accurately determine what amount of " loading" is necessary in any particular case. If a case of valvular disease of the heart be taken as an example, the question might be asked—Is the expectation of life of such an individual lower than that of one with no valvular disease; and if so, how much 1 Most medical men will agree with Sir Wm. Gairdner in the opinion that a large number of cases of valvular disease live to a good old age, and far beyond what one would expect. Actuaries say that this does not affect the general fact that cases of valvular disease, when taken altogether, have on the average a lower expectation of life, and they point out that expectation of life does not mean the probable duration of life of each individual, but the average duration of life of a large number of individuals. This, of course, is quite true ; but the problem before medical men is to determine what are the factors in each case which make a life an average one or an under-average one. The advance of medical science added to the experience of insurance companies will probably help us to solve these difficulties, and enable us to arrive at a more accurate estimate of the amount of loading required in particular cases. In determining whether an applicant is eligible for assurance, and at what rate of premium, there are certain factors which the medical advisers of the company have to con- sider and give due importance to. These factors may be classed under different heads— 1st, the family history of the proposer; 2nd, the past history of the proposer; 3rd, his present state of health; 4th, his habits and