343 LARYNX, CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES who considered them infallible indications of a tubercular taint. After a time infiltrations such as have been described tend to break down, and ulceration results. In the vocal cords various appearances may be produced. Sometimes small losses of substance occur at the edges, and these are separated from each other by red infiltrated tissue, which may appear like granulations. Occasionally the free edge becomes distinctly serrated, while not uncommonly a relatively deep excavation occurs in the neighbourhood of the vocal process. A peculiar appearance is sometimes produced by an ulcer extending along the cord; in such cases this part looks as if doubled or cleft longitudinally. When the ulceration occurs on the posterior laryngeal wall the surface of the ulcer is usu- ally not well seen ; but the raised upper margin, often with a ragged outline, can be distinguished. Ulcers in this situation may interfere little with the voice, but sometimes give rise to most dis- tressing cough. Infiltration of the false cords may occur with- out any prominent symptoms, unless the parts be sufficiently enlarged to interfere with the movements of the vocal cords. When breaking down occurs, numerous small and often super- ficial ulcers may result, or several softened areas may coalesce, and lead to a deeper loss of substance. Pain, either spontaneous or associated with phonation and deglutition, with or without huskiness, may be present when the epiglottis and aryepiglottic folds become involved. Infiltration of the epiglottis usually shows itself by very marked and more or less uniform thickening of the part, which may be red in colour, but which is frequently of a bluish-grey tint. Associated with the enlargement there is usually interference with mobility. Ulcers, when they occur in this situation, are usually multiple and superficial, although at times deeper destruction of tissue may occur. A very common lesion in phthisis is infiltration of the aryepiglottic folds; these appear much enlarged, and in the region of the arytenoid cartilages present pale pyriform oedematous- looking tumours. After a time small scattered ulcers may appear, but it is not common to see deep losses of substance in this situation. It will be obvious from what has just been said, that hoarseness and pain are the two prominent symptoms produced by laryngeal phthisis. The former is liable to occur when the vocal cords are attacked, and may also be sometimes present when the ventricular bands are much enlarged. When the epiglottis and aryepiglottic folds are the chief seats of disease, pain becomes a frequent symptom. In slight cases this is only noticed on speaking or swallowing) but in aggra- vated instances deglutition may become well- nigh impossible. Not infrequently it is com- plained of as shooting up to the ear. When more or less fixation of the arytenoid cartilages has resulted, marked huskiness and even aphonia may be present. As the disease advances, the whole larynx is liable to become attacked, and at this stage the secretion from the various ulcers may be so great as to cover the parts and prevent any detailed diagnosis as to their condition. In the later stages, too, perichondritis and diffuse general swelling may lead to interference with respiration. In a previous paragraph tuber- cular tumours have been referred to; their presence can be diagnosed by means of the laryngoscope, but it is questionable whether we possess any data by which we can distinguish their nature, short of removal followed by microscopic examination. Of the symptoms liable to be caused, huskiness is the most prominent. These neoplasms are rarely large enovigh to interfere with respiration, and do not seem ever to give rise to pain. The diagnosis of laryngeal phthisis is, as a rule, not very difficult. Perhaps the most common appearance met with is the pyriform swelling of the aryepiglottic folds. The pale colour and characteristic shape make this form readily recognisable. A localised sessile tumour in the inter-arytenoid region is suggestive of tuberculosis; but syphilitic ulcers occasionally occur in this situation, and the upper margin may become the seat of granulations which conceal the ulcer from view. When the epi- glottis is infiltrated the pale colour and turban shape are very characteristic, and unlikely to be mistaken. Again, the eaten-out edges of the vocal cords and the longitudinal ulceration, giving rise to an appearance of cleavage, are strongly suggestive of phthisis. Finally, the presence of pulmonary disease and the existence of tubercle bacilli in the sputum will in most cases give corroborative evidence. In the early stages the presence of localised redness and swelling may afford grounds for suspicion, but not for a definite diagnosis. In cases of laryngeal phthisis the pharynx is often markedly anaemic, and sometimes the unusually pale mucosa is relieved by dilated vessels coursing over it—an appearance very suggestive of threatened or actual tuberculosis. I have not referred to injections of tuberculin as of value in diagnosis, since they can hardly be considered justifiable after past experience. The 'prognosis of laryngeal phthisis is ex- tremely grave, but it must not be forgotten that many cases of cure have been recorded. The prospect for the larynx is better according as the lung lesion is slight or improving, and vice versa. Moreover, much can be done by treatment to retard even if it does not cure. Treatment.—In considering the therapeutics of laryngeal phthisis I shall refer merely to