KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF 141 both from the dislocation and from the violent contact with the ground; the knee-cap readily returns to its normal situation when the leg is extended, but the joint may be; swollen and painful for a day or two. The dislocation occurs at irregular intervals, and is quite beyond the control of the patient. The following methods of operative treatment have been practised : (1) detaching the tubercle of the tibia, so as to allow of the insertion of the ligamentum patellae being displaced inwards ; (2) deepening the patellar groove in the trochlear surface of the femur; (3) tightening up the capsular ligament along the inner side of the patella; (4) producing an artificial bow-knee by supracondyloid osteotomy of the femur, as recommended by Professor Chiene, and specially applicable in the female. If there is knock-knee as well, it should be corrected in the usual way by Macewen's operation. 13. Diseases of Superior' Tihio-fibular Joint.— These are extremely rare and of little practical interest. The author has observed infection of this joint from a tuberculous focus in the head of the fibula; the disease ultimately spread to the knee by way of the popliteal bursa. 14. Diseases of the Bursw in the Region of the Knee.—The anatomical situation of the bursse has been described in the article on " Bursse" in vol. ii. Various types of acute bursitis are commonly observed in the prepatellar bursa; acute infective forms result in the formation of a circumscribed abscess, or in a spreading cellulitis which may extend upwards into the thigh and downwards into the leg, requiring prompt and energetic treatment by multiple free incisions. The chronic or trade bursitis is familiarly known as housemaid's fcnee. Inflammation of the infrajMtellar bursa is a very rare affection; the infective form is liable to spread to the knee-joint. The bursce in the piopliteal space are chiefly liable to a condition in which the sac of the bursa fills with fluid, that is to say, a hydrops; and it may be difficult to differentiate this from the hernial pouchings of the synovial membrane, known as synovial cysts, because the bursse liable to be affected with hydrops may com- municate with the knee-joint and share in its hydrops; and yet the commvmication may be so narrow that one may not be able to displace the fluid from the bursa into the joint. The bursa between the inner head of the gastrocnemius and the semimembranosus is the one most commonly affected with hydrops ; it forms a lax, fluctuating, egg- or sausage-shaped cyst at the inner side of the popliteal space. When the knee is extended and the popliteal fascia is on the stretch the swelling becomes harder and less well defined, whereas in the flexed position it lends itself better to digital examination. The treatment of the various forms of bursitis is carried out on the same lines as in similar diseases elsewhere. The quiescent hydrops of the semimembranosus bursa rarely gives rise to any symptoms, and may therefore be left alone; if treatment is required, the most satisfactory procedure is to dissect it out. 15. Ganglia in the Region of the Knee.—These are chiefly met with in working-men and athletes. The commoner variety develops on the outer aspect of the joint, giving rise to a tumour about the size of a pigeon's egg in the interval between the femur and tibia, and in front of the biceps tendon. When the limb is extended, the tumour is hard and but slightly prominent; in the flexed position it becomes more prominent, and fluctuates. The patient may ignore its existence, or may complain of stiffness, discomfort, and difficulty in extending the limb completely ; the disability is greater after working in the kneeling posture, or after football or tennis. If treatment is required, the tumour should be excised ; in doing so, some of the fibres of the capsular ligament may require to be sacrificed, and the knee-joint may be opened into. On section, the tumour is found to be a multilocular cyst, the spaces of which are filled with a colourless jelly rich in mucin. The author has observed similar ganglia on the inner aspect of the knee, also in the interval between the bones and in front of the inner hamstring tendons. 16. Tumours in the Region of the Knee Of the Bones— Chrondroma and osteoma. Sarcoma. Hydatids. In the Popliteal Space— Enlarged gland and chronic abscess. Bursal swellings. Synovial cysts. Consolidated aneurysm. Neuroma. The cartilaginous exostosis is the commonest innocent tumour in the region of the knee; it may be the only one, or there may be a large number scattered throughout the skeleton. Originally developing from the epiphysial junction, the tumour in the case of the femur usually projects on the outer or the inner side of the bone, and may attain a considerable size ; in the case of the tibia it more often projects on the antero-lateral aspect between the tubercle and the internal tuberosity, and grows downwards parallel with the shaft. There may be some arrest of the growth of the limb from inter- ference with the epiphysial cartilages. The tumour causes inconvenience by its bulk, or there may be a bursa over the convexity which may become enlarged and sensitive. As a rule these exostoses may be left alone, as they cease to grow when the skeleton has