LICHEN 410 in the papilla;, of which oedema and cellular infiltration are an evidence. The osdema is a solid one which flattens the papillfe and forces them out of shape. The burnish on the surface of the papules has been explained by Unna as due to tension arising from the packing of the upper part of the corium with cells and the coexistent swelling; but, as Brooke points out, there is also a modification of keratinisation, since the polish is an early symptom, and persists even when the papules have somewhat levelled down and distension from that cause is reduced. The cells which crowd the tissues seem not to be in the main leucocytes, but are chiefly derived from proliferation of the con- nective tissue cells, and Walker regards them as similar in nature to those found in the granulomata. The atrophy which in some cases succeeds the subsidence of lichen may be quoted in support of this view. Pigment cells are met with in the walls of the vessels before the disease has lasted long. The white plugs visible in the centre of some of the papules are due to altera- tions and thickening of the sweat pore, with loosening and separation, which gives rise to the depression. The white lines and network seen in their structure arise from excessive development of portions of the granular layer, which betrays itself by an opacity like ground glass. There is always increased thickness of the corneous layer, and this acquires extreme proportions in the verrucous form. As retrogression proceeds there are degenerative changes, shown by a colloid transformation and the increasing deposit of pigment. Quite different is the morbid anatomy of pity- riasis rubra pilaris. Here the horny follicular papules are but part of a general hyperkeratosis. Indeed, Unna holds that in its main features it approximates most closely to ichthyosis, and when one remembers that the slighter evidences of ichthyosis are expressed in keratosis pilaris, there is good ground for the comparison. The augmented keratinisation inci'eases the surface area of the skin, and thus it is thrown into folds of a coarse type; but there is but little infiltra- tion into the papillae, which themselves are not swollen. The characteristic papules are pro- duced by the advance of the hyperkeratosis into the follicular neck, but it extends into the deeper parts as well. Reactionary changes in the neighbourhood are indicated by a degree of local leucocytosis and interepithelial oedema. Parakeratosis variegata is, as one would ex- pect, closer to lichen pathologically. My own observations agree with those of Santi and Pollitzer that the affection is limited to the epidermis and upper layers of the corium. There is moderate dilatation of the vessels of the papillae and some oedema, but the inflammatory phenomena proper are slight. There is inter- stitial oedema with dilatation of the lymph spaces in the prickle layer. The horny layer is redundant and stretched, hence the degree of burnish. The appearances in sections from one of my cases led a skilled observer, who was ignorant of the source, to say that they were from a case of lichen planus. There is there- fore nothing surprising in the later development of granulomatous tumours. Etiology.—Little definite can be said as to the etiology. It is true that some of those affected are of the class termed neurotic, or have been the subjects of worry or vexation; but on the other hand it is fairly common in well-nourished women about middle life, who are leading a placid and comfortable existence. It occurs about equally in either sex, may be met with in children, though rarely, and much the same may be said as to its appearance at the other extreme of life. It is certainly of more frequent incidence in the better ranks of society ; bvit it is found also in those who fre- quent hospitals, who are, however, by no means necessarily, in Scotland at least, drawn ex- clusively from the lower strata. It must be admitted, and this applies to pityriasis rubra pilaris and to parakeratosis variegata, that we are absolutely in the dark as to any determinate cause ; an organismal origin is yet wholly hypo- thetical. Diagnosis.—The peculiar and characteristic features already described must be mainly relied on. Though Hutchinson considers it as nearly related to psoriasis, and mistakes in this direc- tion are not very infrequent among those, at least, who are not very familiar with a some- what uncommon ailment, still there are essential distinctions. The primary spot in psoriasis is always scaly from the outset, while on enlarge- ment the ai-ea is uniformly so, or shows central involution, while the colour is different, and the itchiness seldom so marked as in lichen. The papular variety of eczema is somewhat like it, but the papules are more plainly red and are not glistening. They become lost in the ecze- matous patch, and other vesicular, oozing, crusted, or pustular forms are or have been present. Syphilis, however, does provide a fairly close imitation, yet the small papular syphilide has a more coppery tint, is more widely distributed, rarely forms patches, does not avoid the face, is often mixed up with other types of eruption, and general constitutional symptoms are discoverable as a means of dis- crimination. The peculiar mottling with pro- gression from above downwards, the slow course with intractability to treatment, aid in excluding parakeratosis variegata, and it is only when the encrustations have been removed by oil-pack- ing or inunction that pityriasis rubra pilaris recalls lichen planus, and then it is the rare lichen neuroticus that is simulated, hardly the ordinary. The prognosis in lichen is good; at most the disease is obstinate, and from the concurrent