LABOUR, PHYSIOLOGY OF 155 human gestation is probably 273 days, as evidenced by the statistical records of Leuchardt and Leuwenwardt; and the period of expulsion is conveniently calculated to occur at the tenth menstrual period missed, or 280 days from the first day of the last period. As is well known, this date is by no means exact, as it is impos- sible to determine in most cases the date of fertilisation of the ovum. The reason why labour should occur at a specific time has been attempted to be explained by many elaborate theories, each and all of which can be met by insuperable objections; so it must still be considered as one of nature's many mysterious secrets. The theories advanced may to some extent explain the causation of labour, but give no clue to its onset at a given time. Thus the researches of Friedlander, Leopold, and Kundrat have demonstrated that the penetration of multinucleated cells into the placental sinuses during the later months of pregnancy lead to coagulation of the blood, and to the formation of young connective tissue which obliterates the sinuses, and thus tends to increase the amount of venous blood in the remaining active portion of the placenta, which causes irritation and uterine contraction. Brown-Sequard has tried to show that the excess of COg circulating the veins of the gravid uterus, acts in a like manner. Others assert that labour is induced by a fatty degeneration of the decidua vera which predisposes to separation of the ovum and its subsequent expulsion, while some authors con- sider that there is an increasing irritability of the uterus with strengthening contractions, which acquire a special strength at the tenth menstrual period missed, and cause separation and expulsion. Doubtless there is much that is true in many of the theories advanced, and probably several acting in unison may account for the onset of labour, but it is needless to say that none give even the slightest evidence of why it normally occurs at a given time. Natural selection seems alone to direct us on reasonable lines. Children born before this period are puny and ill able to lead an independent existence; while children born later are so large that their expulsion has incurred risks both for the mother and them- selves. By a process of heredity it will be evident that the survivor of the fittest, or the majority of survivors, will be born on the 273rd day of gestation, and will thus develop and fix a period which will represent the habitual period of human gestation, or, in other words, assure the onset of labour at a given time. Difficulties of.—In the human female labour is an extremely finely-balanced complex process, and thus as a rule requires many hours for its completion; the smallest hitch in the normal mechanism tends towards indefinite delay and serious complications. The difficulty of labour in woman as compared with the lower animals is mainly to be accounted for by the difference in the pelvis and pelvic floor necessitated by the erect posture, although at the same time the comparatively large size of the foetal head must also be taken into account. As will be noted upon the description of the factors of labour, the passages through which the ovum has to pass are curved and irregular in shape, while the pelvic soft parts or floor are thick and compact to afford support to the abdominal and pelvic viscera. In the lower animals, on the other hand, the parturient canal is straight and regular, while the pelvic soft parts are lax and thin. If proof were wanting of the difficult nature of labour in woman, it is to be found in the marked thickness of the uterine wall as compared with that of the lower animals, which is evidence of the greater force required for the expulsion of the contents. The difficulties and dangers of labour vary greatly in different types of the human race, and it may be generally stated that the higher the grade the more difficult does the process tend to become. This is probably due to the coexistent increase in the size of the foetal head dependent upon intellectual development. The higher social grades of the same type seem also to have more difficult labour, as evidenced by the higher mortality; this, though perhaps due to a slight extent to a similar cause, is doubtless exaggerated by the want of physical development. The expulsion of male children, from their larger size, is more difficult and dangerous than female children, the mortality to the mother being about 40 per cent greater. As is natural to expect, first labours are more difficult than subsequent ones, from the want of previous dilatation of the canal. Stages.—For the sake of description the period of labour is differentiated into three stages :— (1) The stage of preparation, from the com- mencement of pains till the full dilatation of the cervix, or, in other words, till the complete canalisation of the genital canal (1st stage). (2) The stage of expulsion of the child, from the full dilatation of the cervix till the birth of the child (2nd stage). (3) The stage of separation and expulsion of the placenta and membranes from the birth of the child till the birth of the secundines (3rd stage). Factors of Labour Embraced in the process we have to consider three factors, viz., the powers, the passages, and the passenger. The powers are threefold : (1) the uterine contractions, so-called primary powers ; (2) voluntary muscles, specially those of the abdomen, so-called secondary powers; and (3) the weight of the ovum. Primary Poioers, or Uterine Contractions.—