333 LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS Symptoms.—In the chronic forms—those due to passive oedema—the symptoms develop gradu- ally. The patient has a feeling of fulness and a sensation as of a foreign body in the throat; there is some dysphagia, and from the accumu- lated mucus and froth about the sinus pyri- formis and base of the tongue, the voice becomes thick and hoarse. In the acute septic form the suddenness and severity of the symptoms are very characteristic of oedematous laryngitis. They are often ushered in by a rigor. Dyspnoea is generally an early symptom and may become acute within a few hours. The voice becomes aphonic, and there is great pain and little result in the attempts to clear the larynx of mucus, while great distress is occasioned by any efforts at swallowing it. The pulse is small and quick ; there is frequently very great anxiety ; and the face, which is bathed in clammy sweat, becomes congested or palely cyanotic. On examination with the laryngoscope, if a view of the larynx is obtainable, the most striking feature is the prominence of the large oedematous swelling of the aryepiglottic fold on each side. These may be of a dull purple colour, but more frequently they are pale and passively congested. They are either so large or so coated with mucus that an inspection of the interior of the larynx is only occasionally possible, but when this is obtainable the ven- tricular bands are found to share in the process. If the epiglottis is attacked it will be promi- nent, inflamed, swollen, and somewhat globular or turban-shaped. If the subglottic region is involved, a uniform red swelling will be seen below each vocal cord. In some cases there will be the symptoms of the causative conditions. Diagnosis.—When there is a history of a distinct cause, and the onset of the symptoms is sudden and acute, the large, pale, translucent swellings are typical of oedematous laryngitis. There is more difficulty when the history is obscure and when the condition is grafted on some chronic condition, such as tuberculosis. Prognosis.—This will depend on the cause. Speaking generally, oedema is always a serious condition, except in the instances where it is caused by iodide of potassium, angioneurotic oedema, or other causes in which it is seldom severe. Occurring in the latter stages of tuber- culosis and malignant disease, it is of serious augury. It is one of the most fatal incidents in septic infection of the pharynx and neighbour- ing tissues. The possibility of sudden spasm must not be forgotten. Treatment.—The treatment will be to some extent guided by the discovery of the cause; for instance, the presence of an impacted foreign body might at once determine a tracheotomy. In any case, the oedema must be relieved. If moderate in amount and not sufficient to cause marked laryngeal stenosis, this may be done by sucking ice and by the application of ice-bags or cold-water coils to the neck. Hypodermic injections of pilocarpine (gr. \) have given excellent results. Spasm may be mitigated by bromide of potassium and chloral. The oedema produced by iodide of potassium will disappear more quickly if bicarbonate of soda is freely administered. When the oedema is more threatening it should be reduced by freely scarifying the infiltrated tissues, previously cocainised, under the guidance of the laryngeal mirror. When the stenosis is very acute, the symptoms threatening, or the cyanosis increas- ing, tracheotomy should be performed; indeed, in all decided cases the necessity of tracheotomy, which may suddenly declare itself, should always be borne in mind. Quinine, and the tincture of the perchloride of iron in large doses, have been recommended in the septic form, and injections of antistreptococcic serum might be tried. Chronic Subglottic Laryngitis Synonym : Chorditis vocalis inferior hypertrophica. Definition.—A variety of chronic hyper- trophic laryngitis characterised by overgrowth or infiltration of the region immediately below the vocal cords. Etiology.—This form of laryngitis is trace- able to the same causes which have been given in describing the diffuse form. Possibly the over-use or misuse of the voice is not such an evident factor as in the other forms of laryngitis. It has been recorded as a sequela of enteric fever. ^ Symptoms. —■ This form of laryngitis will manifest itself by the train of symptoms which have already been described under Chronic Laryngitis (p. 328) and Chronic Hypertrophic Laryngitis (p. 331). The symptoms which particularly characterise it are the presence of marked dyspnoea, a metallic ring to the voice, and a short, sharp cough similar to that heard in obstruction of the trachea. There may be greater hoarseness and impairment of the voice. The dyspnoea will vary according to local conditions, and also from time to time; but it is frequently sufficient to cause an alarm- ing sense of suffocation, and not infrequently necessitates active relief. Pathology. — Some recent microscopical observations (by Sokolowski and Kuttner) describe the disease as consisting of chronic cell proliferation, both in the mucous membrane and in the submucous and muscular tissues. It may spread as far as the margins of the vocal cords, and gradually develops into a hard indurated mass. Examination.—The laryngoscope shows that the hypertrophy is chiefly, if not entirely, limited to the subglottic region, where two uniform, rounded, symmetrical swellings present ' Sokolowski, Archiv fiir Laryngol. Bd. ii. Heft 1, 1894.