365 LARYNX, NEUROSES OF ment of the underlying conditions which have been referred to. For the laryngeal spasms of tabes dorsalis the inhalation of nitrite of amyl may give relief, and sometimes the attacks, if slight, may be kept off by spraying cocaine into the larynx. It is important in all affections attended with laryngeal spasm to avoid, as far as possible, everything which may cause laryn- geal irritation, such as smoking, etc. Phonatory Glottic Spasm Phonic Spasm, in which spasm of the ad- ductors and tension of the vocal cords occurs only during vocalisation, is a somewhat rare affection usually met with in professional voice- users. It is essentially an occupation neurosis, and is rarely seen except in those of a highly nervous temperament. In some cases ordinary conversation is not interfered with, the impair- ment or loss of voice only occurring during attempts at public speaking or singing. In its earliest manifestation there is weakness or loss of voice commencing soon after the patient begins to read, speak, or sing. In course of time the difficulty increases, until every attempt to use his voice only results in futile endeavours to force a current of air through the spasmodically closed glottis—the glottic closure, however, ceasing as soon as he desists from his attempts to phonate. The treatment of this affection is often dis- appointing, as is the case with all occupational neuroses. Any faulty method of producing the voice should be corrected, and the patient should abstain for a time from all the conditions associ- ated with the occurrence of the spasm. Pro- longed rest and the exhibition of nerve tonics will sometimes result in curing the less pro- nounced cases. Laryngeal Vertigo.—An affection character- ised by a series of coughs, followed by glottic spasm, and transient, partial, or complete loss of consciousness, which is not followed by stupor or other indications of epilepsy, was originally described by Charcot as "laryngeal vertigo." The term is unfortunate, inasmuch as true vertigo is hardly ever present in this disease. The precise nature of the attack has not been definitely settled; it has been regarded by different observers as a form of epilepsy (jpetit maV), as due to syncope, or as the result of forced expiration with a closed glottis. M'Bride has put forward the last-named theory, and Weber has shown that a somewhat similar con- dition can be produced voluntarily by forced expirations with a closed glottis. In support of the " petit mal" theory, it may be said that the sudden partial or complete loss of consciousness, with rapid, complete recovery, is sometimes attended with indrawing of the thumb on the palms, or with epilepsy, and that the attacks are often indistinguishable from petit mal. Getschell, who collected reports of forty-one cases, considered that the average age of the patients was opposed both to the " epileptic " and the " forced expiration " theories. Of the 41 cases, loss of consciousness during bad attacks was reported in 32 cases and falls in 26. True vertigo was mentioned in 1 case only; in 5, slight mental confusion and dizzi- ness in sight was noted. Bronchitis is present in some cases. In one case coming under my own observation the attacks were always the result of pressure over the laryngo-tracheal region. A few short coughs were rapidly followed (not suddenly) by partial loss of con- sciousness, which became complete only after an appreciable period, and then persisted for several minutes. The patient, a boy, was certain that his respiratory embarrassment was expiratory only, not inspiratory. Treatment.—The patient is always of the nervous temperament, but is generally healthy. Any catarrhal condition of the respiratory tract should be corrected by appropriate treatment. General hygienic measures and the administra- tion of bromides may prove beneficial. In my own case, the attacks were cut short by the application of a sponge with very hot water to the throat externally. The inhalation of nitrite of amyl would probably have relieved the glottic spasm, but I have no knowledge of any case of the kind in which it has been tried. The patient usually recovers consciousness so rapidly without any assistance, that it is only in ex- ceptional attacks that any treatment during an attack could be required. Paralysis op the Vocal Cords Vocal cord paralysis obtains a far-reaching clinical significance, not alone on account of the inconvenience or danger that may be caused from the resulting loss of voice or urgent dyspnoea that may result, but also on account of the valuable aid that such paralysis may afford in the diagnosis of many diseases in other regions; indeed, a laryngoscopic examination revealing a vocal cord paralysis may afford the one and only definite physical sign pointing to the existence of some grave organic disease such as tabes dorsalis, aortic aneurysm, etc. The subject will be much simplified by grouping the varieties of laryngeal paralysis together in dis- cussing their etiology and clinical significance. The section will, therefore, be considered in the following order:— I. The signs and symptoms of the various forms of paralysis resulting from implication {a) of the superior, and (6) the recurrent laryngeal nerves. II. The etiology and pathology of laryngeal paralysis. III. The treatment of the various forms of laryngeal paralysis. IV. The clinical significance of laryngeal paralysis.