KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF 128 of course, relaxed and flaccid in the attitude of complete extension. When there is only a small amount of fluid in the joint, it is most easily recognised if the patient stands with his feet together and the trunk bent forwards at the hip-joints; the complete relaxation of the quadriceps allows the fluid to bulge above and on either side of the patella, where its presence is readily detected; if the healthy joint of the other limb is examined in the same attitude there should be no likelihood of making a mistake. The great extent of the synovial menihrane of the hiee is concerned in the rapidity with which effusion may take place, and it is also concerned with the severity of the poisoning from the absorption of toxines when the joint has been infected with pyogenic organisms. The great development of the villous j^rocesses and fringes of the synovial membrane is re- sponsible for the frequency with which, under the influence of disease, they may take on an exaggerated growth, and give rise to the pedun- culated and other forms of loose body which constitute a promineat feature in many of the chronic diseases to which the knee is liable. The commmiications between the synovial cavity ami the surrounding bursoe are of importance in relation to hydrops and to the spread of infective conditions. That with the subcrural bursa has already been referred to. In about 50 per cent of bodies there is a communication with the bursa between the semimembranosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemius, which latter may form a considerable swelling in the ham in cases of hydrops. There is sometimes a com- munication between the knee and the superior tibio-fibular articulation, usually through the mediation of the popliteal bursa. The epiphysial junctions in the region of the knee are chiefly responsible for the growth in length of the lower extremity ; they are later (twenty-one to twenty-five years) in uniting with their respective shafts than those at the hip or ankle. If their functions are interfered with, whether by injury, or disease, or operation, serious shortening of the limb may result. In relation to disease, it is of great importance to bear in mind that infective lesions at the epiphysial junctions are less likely to spread to the joint than is the case with similar lesions at the hip, shoulder, or elbow; in the knee the epiphysial cartilages reach the surface beyond the limits of the synovial cavity. Deformed Attitudes in Knee-Joint Disease The attitude assumed in many forms of knee- joint disease, and especially in tuberculosis, is that oi flexion with or without external rotation of the leg and foot. The occurrence of flexion is explained by its being the natural attitude of the joint at rest, and by affording most ease and comfort to the patient. Whether or not the preponderating influence of the flexor muscles can inaugurate flexion is doubtful; it is certain, however, that when the joint has become flexed, however slightly, the involuntary effort of the patient to fix the joint is chiefly exercised by the flexor muscles. If the patient is able to walk on the limb, the weight of the body is a powerful factor in increasing an already existing flexion. The greater capacity of the joint sac in the flexed position may be an occasional factor in determining this attitude; it is commonly observed, in cases in which a large amount of fluid is thrown out rapidly, that the patient is unable to extend the limb, whereas in chronic effusions, such as the hydrops of arthritis deformans or of Charcot's disease, the joint may contain an enormous amount of fluid and yet be completely extended without dis- comfort, because the capsule has had time to yield and stretch. The external rotation of the leg is supposed to be associated with the contraction of the biceps muscle; this may or may not be the case; it is certain that the outward rotation is most marked in cases in which the patient has been confined to bed. One of the most characteristic deformities of the knee is that associated with bachvard dis- j^laceinent of the tibia; it is especially met with in neglected cases of chronic and especially tuberculous disease, where the patient has been allowed to walk and bear weight on the limb when it is already flexed at the knee. This mechanical explanation of the occurrence of backward displacement is, in our opinion, a more reasonable one than others which have been suggested. By many it is ascribed to the traction of the hamstring muscles and the cicatricial contraction of the capsular ligament and other structures in the ham, the displace- ment being rendered possible by the softening and yielding of the crucial and other controlling ligaments ; it has also been suggested, inasmuch as the backward displacement is invariably associated with flexion, and that it is only observed in patients before the skeleton has attained maturity, that the growth of the femur, in the flexed position of the limb, may result in its projection beyond the tibia. There is still another deformed attitude met with in knee-joint disease, viz., a certain degree of genu valgum or abduction of the leg; it is commonly associated with slight flexion, and is chiefly met with in patients who have borne weight on the limb in walking; the valgum is also associated with slight outward displacement of the patella on to the external condyle, with prominence and apparent enlargement of the internal condyle, with depression of the pelvis on the diseased side, and apparent lengthening of the limb. All of the above deformed attitudes are especially met with in tuberculous disease of the knee-joint, and an accurate knowledge of