INVALID FEEDING 16 Sertwlina or Ground Rice Pudding \ oz. semolina or ground rice. J pint milk. 1 egg. 1 tea-spoonful of sugar. Put the grain into a small lined saucepan and the milk with it. Stir these over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, and boil for a few minutes until the semolina swells and thickens. Remove the pan from the fire; add the sugar and seasoning, and when it has cooled mix the yolk of the egg well into it. Beat up the white on a plate with a knife to a stifi^ froth and mix thoroughly; pour the mixture into a pie-dish and bake for ten minutes; sprinkle with sugar and serve at once. Rice Pudding 1 oz. whole rice. \ pint milk. 1 tea-spoonful of sugar. 1 egg. Flavouring, if wished. Well wash the rice in several waters ; put it into a lined saucepan with cold water to cover it; bring it to the boil and pour the water off. This helps to burst the rice more quickly. Then pour in the milk and let the rice simmer by the fire until thoroughly cooked; then add the yolk of the egg and the white as described in the last recipe, and bake in a well-greased pie-dish. Tapioca and Sago Pudding f oz. tapioca or sago. I pint cold milk, i egg. 1 tea-spoonful of sugar. Flavouring. If small crushed tapioca or small sago, make as in semolina pudding. If not, follow the directions:— Let the tapioca soak about an hour in a basin covered with milk. Rinse out a small lined saucepan, turn the tapioca and milk into it, and stir over the fire until it comes to the boil. Then simmer slowly until it turns clear, stirring every now and then for about twenty to thirty minutes. If it becomes too thick while cooking add a little more milk. Then finish off the pudding with eggs, etc., as in semolina. A nice light pudding can be made by cooking the sago or tapioca with water instead of milk, and adding stewed fruit or claret or port wine to it. Baked Bread-and-Butter Pudding 1 or 2 slices of thin bread and butter. 1 egg. \ pint of milk. 1 tea-spoonful of sugar. A little grated nutmeg. Cut some bread and butter rather thin, remove the crusts, and cut it into pieces about an inch square. Lay these into a small greased pie-dish, making the dish just about half full; beat up the egg in a small basin, and add to it nutmeg, sugar, and milk. Mix well together and pour over the bread in the pie-dish. Allow the pudding to stand about ten minutes until the bread gets thoroughly saturated, then bake in a moderate oven from ten to fifteen minutes until nicely browned on the top. Sprinkle with sugar. Blanc-mange 1 gill of milk. 1 gill of cream. \ oz. isinglass. Rind I lemon. 1 oz. sugar. Rinse out a small saucepan and put into it the milk, isinglass, and thinly-peeled rind of half a lemon. Let this stand by the side of the fire until the isinglass is dissolved and the milk well flavoured with the lemon. Stir occasionally, but do not let it boil. Add the sugar, and strain into a basin to keep back the lemon rind. Add the cream, and stir occasionally until nearly cold. If not stirred the milk and cream will separate. Pour into a small basin or mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, and put aside in a cool place to set. Turn out, and serve with a little red or black currant jelly. Baked Custard 2 yolks and 1 white of egg. 1^ gill of milk. 1 tea-spoonful of sugar. Flavouring. Beat up the eggs in a basin with the sugar and flavouring; pour in the milk and mix again; strain the custard into a greased pie- dish. Stand the pie-dish in a Yorkshire pudding tin with some cold water round it. Bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes until firm and nicely browned. A thin slice of sponge cake may be placed on the top of the custard before baking. Jellies Calf's-foot jelly is very troublesome to make and to clear, and is no better than jelly made from gelatine. Wine Jelly 1\ oz. French sheet gelatine. 3 gills cold water. h gill lemon juice. ^ gill sherry wine. 1 table-spoonful brandy. 3 oz. loaf sugar. Rind of 1 lemon, cut. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 inch of cinnamon stick. White and shell of 1 egg. (The proportion of gelatine is 2| oz. to 1 quart.)