26 INVALID FEEDING Fruit taken in small quantity is also advisable. It is best to take it cooked, either stewed or baked, and eaten with cream.^ This gets over the difficulty of eating a crisp apple when the teeth are imperfect. In stewing fruit, if cane sugar is added by the cook the resultant product is very prone to turn acid. It is therefore better to neutralise the acidity with an alkali rather than to attempt to mask the flavour with sugar. Thus to each pound of fruit add as much bicarbonate of soda as will lie on a shilling. The bitterness of the fruit will be gone and the natural flavours of the coulere will become apparent, which is usually quite sweet enough. If this simple plan is carried out, many old people can eat and enjoy stewed fruit without feeling that they will have to suffer from acidity afterwards. If there is a desire for sweetness, saccharine can take the place of sugar. The usual rule, however, will be found to be that the desire for sweetness disappears, and that food with a relish has to be provided instead Alcohol. — A small amount of (measured) alcohol with food is often beneficial. A nourish- ing stimulant to be highly recommended is an ounce of dry cherry brandy mixed with a wine- glassful of cream. Cookery in Diabetes As a special knowledge of cookery is required to enable the physician in cases of diabetes to frame a diet suited to the physiological capacities of the individual, and at the same time to make the necessarily restricted diet more readily tolerated, the points of practical importance in the selection and manner of preparation of individual food-stuffs is here appended. For an account of the principles which must guide the physician in forming the diet the reader is referred to the articles " Diabetes" and "Glycosuria." The principles followed in framing these menus have been to make the food as appetising and varied as possible, while the important articles of food, starch and sugar, have been excluded and their place taken by the hydrocarbon fat, so that the body may not lack entirely the " fuel " food. If the excess of fat in the food should give rise to dyspepsia, a small quantity of brandy and water after the meal aids digestion. First, it is advisable to give a list of the articles that may or may not be eaten, as on this the menus are framed. Food May eat Butcher meat of all kinds except liver. Tongue, ham, bacon, or other smoked, salted, dried, or cured meats. * Preferably not later than tlie mid-day meal. May not eat Sugar in any form. Wheaten bread and ordinary biscuits of all kinds. Food—contimied Brussels Cauli- Cabbage.i May not eat Toast. Rice. Arrow- root. Corn-flour. Oatmeal. Sago. Tapioca. Macaroni. Vermicelli. Potatoes. Carrots. Parsnips. Beetroot. Peas. Spanish onions. Pastry and puddings of all kinds, and honey. All fruit, fresh and preserved, except lemons and unripe fruit. Liver. Oysters. Cockles and mussels. May eat Poultry. Game. Fish of all kinds, fresh, salted, or cured. Shell fish, except the bodies of lob- sters and crabs. Mussels. Animal soups, not thickened with any starchy materials. Beef teas and broths. Eggs dressed in any way. Cheese. Cream cheeses. Butter. Cream. Greens. Spinach. Tur- nip tops. French beans. ^ sprouts.^ flower.^ Broccoli.' Asparagus.^ Sea- kale.^ Vegetable marrow. Lettuce. Cucumber. Toma- toes. Mushrooms. Mustard and cress. Watercress. Endive. Spring onions. Leeks. Celery. Rhu- barb. Pickles. Oil. Vinegar. Savoury jelly. Jellies and custards sweet- ened with saccharine. Blanc-manges made with isinglass or gelatine. All nuts except chest- nuts. Olives. Beverages il/a?/ take May not take Tea. Coffee. Cocoa Milk, except in limited nibs. Dry quantities. from sherry. Claret. Dry Sauterne. Bur- gundy. Chablis. Hock. Brandy. Whisky and other unsweetened spirits. Unsweetened aerated waters. Milk (lim- ited to 1 or II pints daily). In following out these tables wc see that cream has practically to take the place of milk, cream being almost free from lactose. Sac- ' These should be boiled in a large quantity of water. Sweet ales. Porter. Stout. Cider. All | sweet wines. Port. Tokay. Champagne. Liq- ueurs. Fruit juices and syrups. Cocoa and ordinary choco- late.