LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 507 to thoracic, and the lower ribs are maintained in as immobile a state as possible. The con- sequence is that the blood in the lower part of the right lung is apt to sag, and the adhesion to the diaphragm and the inflammatory changes which aff"ect the base of the lung all combine to favour consolidation. A right basal conges- tion is a common clinical experience in medical practice in the Tropics; it may merely indicate a stagnation of blood in the region of the lung immediately over a congested or hypersemic liver, or it may point to a real inflammatory state of the lung due to hepatitis or perihepa- titis, and the subphrenic formation of pus. When the stomach is encroached upon, gastric irritation will be in evidence, with vomiting, nausea, and inability to retain nourishment. The colon, although a hepatic abscess frequently finds its way thither, seldom shows marked evidence of physiological change. Just before perforation in the colon takes place constipation usually obtains, and then distension of the coccum and ascending colon from gas. The opposite condition, however, may prevail, and an irritating flux characterise the action of the bowel. The gall-hladder is seldom encroached upon, and it is rare for jaundice, due to impli- cation of the biliary ducts, to be met with. A hepatic abscess advancing downwards may press upon the main bile duct, or the bile passages may, owing to duodenal catarrh, become ob- structed, and so cause jaundice. The spleen in liver abscess, or in the hepatitis which usually precedes it, may be said to be always small. The reason for this is to be found in the fact that the portal circulation is in no way inter- fered with by a tropical abscess in the liver. When the spleen is enlarged in inflammatory liver lesions it points to a pylephlebitis as the cause of the disorder. For the same reason ascites and congestion of the veins below the diaphragm are pronounced by their rarity in inflammatory aff"ections and suppuration of the liver itself. The right rectus muscle of the abdominal wall is usually maintained in a rigid condition. The muscle assumes this position as part of the general effort to ensure freedom from movement in the neighbourhood of the inflamed and pain- ful organ. When examination of the liver by percussion or palpation is attempted the rectus muscle is thrown into a still more firm state of spasm, and may be felt as hard as a board in its attempts to guard the inflamed organ be- neath. In this direction also the involuntary protective impulse is so marked that the patient inclines the whole trunk towards the right side, and should he assume the erect position the body is seen to incline to the right and forwards. Constitutional Symptoms.—The presence of a liver abscess may come to be recognised only by a gradual process of exclusion and by no pronounced initial symptoms. At other times a definite period of commencement is ascer- tainable and can be readily determined. When suppuration follows upon a hepatitis a rigor usually ushers in the development of pus; but when the abscess arises subsequently to dysentery the period of invasion is more in- definite, and a collection of pus may be present unknown to patient or doctor. Sweating at night is a marked symptom in suppurative hepatitis, and as the illness develops the sweating becomes profuse, appearing on every occasion on which the patient goes to sleep during the daytime ; and the patient may have to get up, especially in pysemic abscesses of the liver, not once, but two or three times in the night, to change his garments owing to their being saturated with sweat. At all times, except during the actual period during which the rigor threatens or prevails, the skin is moist and clammy. The temperature of the body in liver abscess does not always run a typical course. As a rule, after pus has been developed, and has been present in the liver for some time, a morning drop in temperature and an evening exacerbation, with or without a rigor, is the rule. The matinal temperature may fall below the normal considerably, 96° F. or even lower being registered ; the evening temperature may rise to 100' F. only, or it may reach 101° to 104° F. When the abscess develops gradually and insidiously, as is the case in most intrahepatic abscesses, following upon old dysenteric troubles, the initial rise of temperature is very gradually developed; but when the abscess is acute, following upon acute hepatitis, or when the abscess is suprahepatic, the presence of pus is usually ushered in by a temperature ranging from 103° to 105° F. This high register may be maintained for several days, but afterwards the temperature fluctuates and the accessions of fever are irregular. In all cases, however, when the pus has accumulated in quantity and hectic is not present, the tendency is for the temperature to fall to about the normal. Many cases of established liver abscess, in which a pint or two of pus is present, are attended by no abnor- mality of temperature, the thermometer showing a normal temperature morning and evening. When hectic follows upon operation, the usual accession of temperature as the day advances becomes pronounced. The Alimentary Canal.—The tongue in the earlier stages of hepatic suppuration remains wonderfully clean. It is usually somewhat reddened, and swollen; the furrows and rugae are preternaturally prominent, and at the back a velvety coat of a yellowish tinge persists. It is in no sense the tongue of " biliousness," and it is remarkable how small a part " bilious"