LABOUR, INJUEIES DURING 271 had cut the stretched perineum. The shoulders also are very apt to commence or to increase a perineal tear, and may convert an " incomplete " tear into a " complete " one. Results. — If the laceration is superficial, haemorrhage is slight. Unless accurately sut- ured, raw surfaces, over which all lochial dis- charges must pass, are left, and, quite apart from distinct evidences of septicsemia, it is not infrequently found that there may be some pyrexia, 100° to 102° F., about the fourth or fifth day, when the lochia are a little faint in odour, and probably contain some chemical toxic elements. Pyrexia is usually absent if the wounds have begun to granulate up, absorption not taking place readily through granulation tissue. If the laceration is " complete," incontinence of flatus and fteces is soon noticed, and the tendency of the sphincter ani, divided anteriorly, to pull itself and its adjacent structures back- wards is soon apparent, the anus getting nearer the coccyx, and the antero-posterior length of the vulvar outlet becoming longer. This may produce a distressing sensation of gaping of the vulva, even permitting air to enter the vagina when the patient stoops. If the perineum is severely torn, and no attempt at union is made, the anterior vaginal wall loses some of its posterior support; and if it is itself relaxed and stretched, it is apt to prolapse a little, and a cystocele may ensue. If this prolapse continues, secondary elongation of the supravaginal cervix, or prolapse of the whole uterus may follow, owing to the con- tinuous dragging action of the cystocele. These secondary phenomena are, of course, commoner in cases where the vagina or pelvic floor has received injury ; but there can be no doubt that in women obliged to follow laborious occupations a ruptured perineum is sometimes the starting- point of uterine prolapse. Prophylaxis.—In ordinary labours with the vertex presenting, the accoucheur should wait till the occiput is protruding or causing perineal bulging, and until the nape of the neck is press- ing against the arch of the pubes. Then the perineum should be supported with the palm of the hand, and the occiput should be urged for- ward, and at the same time too rapid delivery of the head should be prevented. This en- couragement of the occiput to rotate under the symphysis can best be done just as a " pain " is passing off, before the recession of the head occurs. When the head has reached the outlet as far as its supra-orbital ridges, recession is less marked, and then the largest circumference of the head can sometimes be coaxed through as one " pain" is ceasing, and before the next commences. If, notwithstanding, the perineum threatens to give way, tell the patient to cry out, in order to avoid the reflex bearing-down ; give chloroform deeply, and apply pressure on the occiput with both hands to keep the head back if possible. The best way to exert pressure upon the occiput is to apply the right hand from the perineal aspect, and the left between the legs from the vulvar aspect, and let the fingers interdigitate. Even then it is diificult to exert sufficient resistance. Episiotomy.—If a tear seem inevitable, the small operation of episiotomy may be performed. This should be done exactly at the right time, or not at all. Wait till the supra-orbital ridges are about to be born, and then, if the perineum is going to give way, a thin, white, very tense line is seen almost all round the margin of the vulvar orifice. Take a probe-pointed knife ; pass it on its flat, along the child's head, until its point has passed under this thin white line, about one-third of the distance between the central line of the perineum and the base of the vestibule. Then gently turn the handle till the cutting edge of the knife meets the tense line, which immediately gives way, and a notch is made, which, though afterwards looking only a quarter of an inch long, gapes to three times that length as the head is being born. Make a similar notch on the opposite side, and the head will almost certainly pass through at the next "pain," with very little deepening of these two notches, and with the perineum saved. Scissors may be used if preferred. It is best to put a single suture in afterwards, on each side. Care should be taken that there is no complex presentation present, such as a hand near the mouth, with a sharp fore-arm to tear the peri- neum, and that the posterior shoulder, as it is born, does not deepen or cause laceration. If the forceps are being used, rapidity of birth can usually be controlled, and the head can be coaxed over the perineum, and round from under the pubic arch between the "pains" at the right moment. When the head is distending the perineum the forceps may be removed, if it is thought that nature will then effect delivery without accident. Anaesthesia, to the surgical degree, is very desirable where there is risk of laceration, and should always be given when any prophylactic manipulations are being adopted. Treatment.—Immediately the child is born let the perineum be carefully examined, and let the nurse, and the patient too, if not under anaesthesia, understand what is being done, so that no charge of carelessness may be sub- sequently brought against the accoucheur. This particular charge, neglect of a torn perineum, is one so frequently brought against medical men, with a view to damages, that special care should be taken in making the examination, and if in doubt as to the need of a suture, let the accoucheur err on the safe side and insert one. A good time to make the examination is immediately after the birth of the child, even before the placenta has been expelled, for the