522 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES be complained of; if the stomach is encroached on, nausea and vomiting may be present; and cardiac distress may result from direct or indirect pressure on the heart. When the tumour progresses downward into the abdominal cavity it may attain a large size, may well-nigh fill the abdomen, and compression of the veins may induce ascites and oedema of the lower limbs. Venous obstruction and its results are, however, uncommon sequelae of eveti large hepatic hydatid tumours. Only when the splenic vein is compressed is the spleen likely to be swollen. The ureter may be compressed and the renal vein may likewise be narrowed, and the urine may in consequence become albuminous. Jaundice may arise from pressure upon the obstruction of the ductus communis choledochus, or by the escape of echinococci into the bile ducts ; jaundice is occasionally due to catarrh of the biliary passages. Course and Te7'minat;io7i of the Disease.—I. Rupture of the sac is by far the most common termination when the disease is allowed to run its course without treatment. The rupture may occur spontaneously, but more often it is consequent upon injury of severe muscular effort. The directions in which the tumour ruptures have been summarised by Neisser as the result of 131 observations:— Rupture into the lung and pleural cavity, 47 cases. „ ,, stomach and intestines, 46 ,, „ ,, peritoneal cavity, . 16 ,, „ through the abdominal wall, . 15 ,, „ into the urinary passages, . 7 ,, Rupture into the By-onchial Tubes and Pleural Cavity.—Naturally, it is into the right side of the chest that the contents of the cyst find exit. When the cyst perforates the diaphragm, previous to the formation of pleuritic adhesions, a fatal pleurisy is the usual result; but when the hydatid has set up adhesive inflammation in the pleura the cystic contents find their way into the pulmonary tissue, and, pressing towards the point of least resistance, may gain the channel of a bronchus and be got rid of in the sputum. This mode of exit may be followed by speedy and complete recovery, or the long- standing suppuration induced leads to ex- haustion, induration of the lung, general wasting, and may end fatally or in recovery after several years of profuse discharge. In such cases the sputum contains booklets, and it may be scolices, liver pus, shreds of membrane, occasion- ally stained by bile. Sudden death may follow rupture into the lung; the bronchial tubes of both sides may be blocked by the profusion of the discharge into the air passages, and suffoca- tion ensue. Long-standing suppuration may lead to consolidation or gangrene of one or both lungs. Thus exit by way of the bronchial passages is an undesirable result to wait for, and a surgical operation, when once the hydatid has commenced to discharge through the lung, is not attended by promising results. Rupture into the Intestine. — The cystic contents do not all escape in one stool, but trickle into the intestinal canal rather slowly. Rupture into the intestine does not necessarily imply that the patient recovers. Death may result from a general peritonitis, or from hepatic abscess, infection from the intestine reaching the cavity of the emptied cyst. Rupture into the stomach allows of the escape of the hydatid contents by vomiting. Rupture into the peri- toneal cavity is usually followed by death, which follows in a few hours from shock, or may be deferred for a few days, during which severe peritonitis takes place. Should the hydatid suppurate, fatal peritonitis may be set up without rupture. Rupture through the ab- dominal walls: the point of exit is usually the right upper quarter of the abdomen. Rupture into the urinary passages: there is no direct proof that such an event has ever occurred. Rupture into the biliary ducts may be followed by a spontaneous cure of the disease, or by severe inflammation of the sac and suppuration. The contents of the tumour may pass along the common bile duct to the duodenum, or the calibre of the bile duct proves insufficient to transmit the hydatids, and blocking of the channel gives rise to jaundice. The passage of a small cyst down the common bile duct is frequently attended by symptoms of biliary colic. It is possible that the spontaneous cure of unobserved hydatid of the liver takes place more often by this channel than by any other. Rupture into the pericardium: a fatal result has been the invariable consequence. Rupture into the inferior vena cava or portal vein: the former leads to sudden death from pulmonary embolism, the latter to scattered abscesses in the liver. Multiple channels of exit: not in- frequently the hydatid contents may escape from the liver by two or more channels simultaneously. II. Suj)puration of the sac may be "spon- taneous," may be the result of surgical treat- ment by puncture, etc., or may arise from bile gaining access to the cavity of the cyst. A blow may determine suppuration, or it may follow rupture of the sac into a neighbouring viscus. The subsequent history of a hydatid cyst after suppuration is identical with that of a liver abscess (vide Liver Abscess). III. Other fatal modes of termination may be due to (1) pressure on neighbouring organs, (2) exhaustion consequent upon any one of the above conditions, (3) implication of the liver to so great an extent that it becomes totally unfitted to perform its function and carry on the work of the economy. IV. Spontaneous Cure. — The mother cyst slowly contracts and shrivels, and, along with the contents, becomes replaced by a putty-like