KIDNEY 102 granulosa, Chiari), and ulceration is often present. Backward pressure is often coincident with pyelitis, and dilatation of the renal pelvis and atrophy of the kidney substance results (hydronephrosis and pyonephi-osis). Suppura- tive nephritis or chronic interstitial nephritis may occur from spread of the inflanmiation. Symptomatology.—The amount of suffering depends more on the cause than on the pyelitis itself. The severe microbic types, e.g. pyaemia, etc., may be unattended by pain, or at most have a dull aching, while in slight cases due to calculus the agony may be intense and pro- longed. Sometimes, however, pain in a pure case of pyelitis (for instance, puerperal fever) may resemble renal colic in its intensity and distribution (Ebstein). Ascending pain along the iireters, followed by dull aching in the kidney, may be due to pyelitis apart from the symptoms of its cause. The pus in the urine intermits, being usually noticed to be more abundant in the first urina- tion on rising in the morning. General Symptmns.—Continued fever does not always accompany chronic suppurative pyelitis unless the ureter becomes blocked, but a slight rise of temperature may occur at night (Newman). In uncomplicated pyelitis the most important signs are found in the urine. Changes in the Urine.—Pus.—The urine, when passed, is milky and opalescent, but on standing the pus soon separates into a creamy layer at the bottom of the urine glass, clearly marked off fx*om the supernatant urine. The amount of mvicus present is slight and not sufficient to cloud the urine. Reaction is acid; even when the urine of pyelitis is foetid it may retain its acid reaction from admixture of the secretion of the normal kidney. In the later stages it sometimes be- comes markedly alkaline. Odour.—In the earlier stages there is no smell. When decomposition is pronounced Dickinson remarked a peculiar smell like sulphuretted hydrogen, which he distinguishes form the ainmoniacal odour of the urine of bladder inflammation. Albumin is present, but corresponds to the amoimt of pus. When the deposit on boiling is excessive, it raises the suspicion that the renal tissue has been invaded, and other signs of this complication should be looked for. Cells.—Besides pus corpuscles numerous epi- thelial cells are often present, elongated, pointed, and often overlapping each other, which a skilled microscopist can detect as pelvic. Bacteria.—Numerous micrococci and bacilli can be seen (quite apart from decomposition) in the recently passed urine. Diagnosis.—Pyelitis must be distinguished from—(1) Cystitis.—In cases of pyelitis, when the urine is decomposed and alkaline, and pain- ful and frequent micturition is present, cystitis will be stimulated, and yet the bladder be free from disease. The history is important, for it may show long-continued renal symptoms previous to the onset of bladder trouble; the amount of mucus and the ammoniacal de- composition are greater in bladder affections. The cystoscope is the best guide in doubtful cases—the diagnosis resting on the pyuric efilux, the shape of the ureteric orifice, and the urine obtained from each pelvis by the ureter catheter. In the class due to ascending inflammation from disease of the lower genito-urinary tract the diagnosis of pyelitis apart from renal changes is very difficult, often impossible. Ascending ureteric pain followed by dull, heavy aching and tenderness of the kidney should raise the suspicion of this complication. It may be possible, by massage of the kidney, to obtain an appreciable increase of the pus in the urine. (2) Pyelonephritis and Chronic Interstitial Nephritis.—In acute pyelonephritis there are rigors, high fever with a feeble, rapid pulse, a coated, dry tongue, thirst, and vomiting. The urine is diminished in amount, and contains a large quantity of pus and albumin. The patient rapidly sinks into a typhoid condition. If chronic indurative changes have occurred in the kidney there is progressive loss of weight, failing appetite, headache, thirst, and sometimes vomiting; the tongue is coated and the mouth dry. There is polyuria, the urine is of low specific gravity, the albuminuria is in excess of the pus present, and tube casts may be found. The condition of the urine is often masked by the cystitis already present. Treatment.—Prophylactic.—Many cases of ascending infection may be avoided by careful antiseptic catheterisation, and the prior ad- ministration before interference of hexamethylen- tetramine, gr. v. The indications to be followed are: (1) to remove the cause ; (2) to control the amoimt of pus and relieve pain. (1) This includes the treatment of renal calculus, enlarged prostate, urethral stricture, and other conditions. A word of warning is necessary in cases where backward pressure is an element. If there is any reason to suspect that the renal tissue has been invaded, operative interference should be limited to the methods which throw least strain on the weakened kidneys. (2) In all cases medical treatment should be adopted and urinary antiseptics exhibited. Hcxamethylentetramine (gr. v.), sandal-wood oil, ammonium benzoatc, boric acid, natural salicylic acid, and salicylates give the best results. Sandal-wood oil is efficacious in the chronic types, or antiseptics may be combined with the liquid extract of white sandal-wood.