397 LEUCOCYTH^MIA it as a primary disease of the lymph glands which leads to increased formation of lympho- cytes, and to the mechanical flooding of the blood with these in a passive way, and not as an active immigration—the result of chemiotaxis. He brings it into line with the lymphocytosis which occurs when there is an increased lymph circulation in a greater or smaller area of glands, as in digestion, in irritation of the intestine in children, and so on. According to him, there- fore, myelsemia and lymphaemia are processes essentially different in origin. The former would be due to some noxious substance in the blood which acts chemiotactically on the marrow and draws its cells into the circulating fluid, and would therefore be primarily a blood disease to which the hypertrophy of the marrow is secondary. The latter would be due to some- thing in the lymph glands which causes them to hypertrophy and to pour into the blood an excessive number of lymphocytes; it would therefore be primarily a disease of lymph glands, and only by accident, as it were, a disease of the blood at all. Ehrlich, in common with all recent writers, has ceased to believe that the spleen has any causal relation to either disease. The reasons for this view are first, that there are no special splenic leucocytes; second, that evidence is slowly accumulating to the eff'ect that apart from the production of lymphocytes in the Malpighian corpuscles, the spleen acts either simply as a reservoir of blood or as a blood-destroying organ rather than as a blood- forming organ ; and third, that enlargement of the spleen does not take place in acute leuco- cythaemias, but is rather an indication and a measure of chronicity. Muir suggests, indeed, that the enlargement of the spleen may be an attempt to deal with and destroy the excess of leucocytes; but it is difiicult to see how this is to be effected without an enlargement of the Malpighian corpuscles, the only structure in the spleen which could produce leucocytes capable of acting as scavengers. Such an enlargement does not take place. Ehrlich's view is, in my opinion, too artificial, does not explain those cases of lymphaemia where there is little or no enlargement of lymph glands, and quite fails when it is applied to acute lymphaemias; and I am much more inclined to accept the views of Neumann's school, whose most recent exponent is Walz, that the excess of leucocytes in both lymphaemia and myelaemia is derived from the marrow. In all lymphaemias which have been fully observed, no matter how rapidly fatal they were, a great excess of lymphocytes has been found in the marrow. Lymphocytes are normally present there, though not in large number; and all recent work has gone to show that the marrow is the most adaptable tissue in the body, that according to the needs of the organism it may contain in excess either normoblasts, megaloblasts, eosino- philes or myelocytes, and their descendants the polymorpho-nuclear neutrophiles. There seems to be no reason why it should not contain an excess of lymphocytes in turn, except the theo- retical opinion to which Ehrlich's name gives weight, that the marrow is reserved for the pro- duction of granular cells. To those who, like myself, hold that all leucocytes are derived from the same stock, and that their different varieties are due merely to differences of environment and to specialisation of function, this argument does not carry much weight; and the acceptance of the view that all leucocythaemias of both varieties are myelogenic would explain all the facts of their pathology, would account for their being indistinguishable clinically except for the examination of the blood, and would clear the way for the search for the prime cause of the disease. Frankly, we do not know what this is. It may be something in the blood or in some other organ, but acting through the blood, which attracts the leucocytes from the marrow and causes its hypertrophy, or it may be something in the marrow which causes its cells to pro- liferate, to take up the available free space and to pass out into the blood. Bacterial organisms have been described as present in the blood, but there has never been any sufficient reason given for us to believe that they are of import- ance. The most recent, most elaborate, and most plausible attempt to find the cause is that of Lowit, who has described two organisms, one as the cause of myelaemia, the other of lym- phaemia, which he calls " haemamoeba leukae- miae magna " and "haemamoeba leukaemiae parva vivax" respectively. He considers them to be sporozoa, and nearly related to the malaria parasite. His work with regard to lymphaemia and its supposed parasite is so incomplete that I need not discuss it; his views are meant to stand or fall by their application to myelaemia, which he has studied more fully. He states that the parasites are usually found in the blood in varying numbers, that they occur in the leucocytes as a rule, seldom in the plasma, and never in the red corpuscles. The leucocytes attacked are the small and large mononuclear forms—the lymphocytes and transition forms— never the eosinophiles, and only once a neutro- phile cell. The bodies are amoeboid, and may be sickle-, crescent-, or spindle-shaped, or rounded. He describes flagellate forms, but these are obviously artefacts; indeed, Lowit allows that they are more numerous when there are many injured or badly fixed leucocytes in the prepara- tion. Inoculation of rabbits with myelaemic blood or parts of organs does not produce mye- laemia, but " parasites " are found in the blood and organs which are like those found in the human subject; there is also a lymphocytosis lasting for some months, and albumoses are found in the urine, as is frequently the case with myelaemic patients. Cats, guinea-pigs,