349 LARYNX, BENIGN GROWTHS OF They are usually solitary, rarely multiple, and tend to grow into the cavity of the larynx. They may be distinguished by their intense hardness, slow growth, and the absence of inflammatory symptoms. Among the exceedingly rare growths which have been met with in the larynx are lymphoma, adenoma, and thyroid gland tumours, and in one instance a growth removed by Schroetter was found composed of mtiscle tissue. Etiology.—We are still as far as ever from settling the question of the cause of laryngeal growths. That papillomata, cysts, and epi- thelial thickenings are occasionally congenital, is beyond doubt. Inheritance and constitutional predisposition have been suggested, in explana- tion of cases where several members of the same family have suffered, and it has been held (Oertel) that, in the case of papillomata, scrofula and hereditary syphilis are important factors. The vast majority of observers are agreed that chronic laryngeal congestion is the most fre- quent cause of benign neoplasms, and conse- quently chronic catarrh, excessive or wrong- use of the vocal organs, the inhaling of dust- ladened air, smoking, the abuse of alcohol, and the acute infectious diseases, have all been held responsible for their occurrence. Schech, Jurasz, and others have actually seen new growths to arise during a chronic laryngitis. On the other hand, Schroetter and Semon have not found this view supported by their own cases, and regard the congestion as rather the result of the presence of a growth than the cause. It is rather curious that syphilis and tubercle, two of the commonest causes of laryngeal congestion, should be so generally held to have no bearing on the occurrence of true neoplasms. I have notes of two cases, one of multiple papillomata, and another of fibroma, in which the growths appeared while the patients were suffering from chronic laryn- gitis of syphilitic origin. That nasal obstruc- tion may favour the occurrence of growths is quite probable ; but that the removal of tonsils and adenoids, as has been suggested, will cause the growths to disappear, I do not believe, after seeing cases in which these measures have been adopted. Beyond all question age and sex are the two most important etiological factors. At all ages males are more subject than females in the proportion of three to one. As to age, if we omit the first years of life, there is a steady increase in frequency up to the age of 40, followed by a decline as age advances. By far the largest number of cases occur between 30 and 40 years of age, while the period 20 to 50 may be said to be that within which there is a liability to benign growths of the larynx. The symptoms produced by a laryngeal growth will depend on its size, its situation, and the nature of its attachment. In 95 per cent of cases it is hoarseness, or aphonia, which causes the patient to seek advice. This arises from the fact that the vast majority of growths originate from the vocal cords. A very small growth on the edge of a cord will cause hoarse- ness, and one at the anterior commissure may produce complete aphonia, while a growth with a broad attachment will almost certainly disturb the voice more than one with a narrow pedicle. Diphthonia, a rare form of vocal disturbance, was first described by Turck. It occurs where a growth on the edge of one cord divides the glottis into two unequal portions, and conse- quently two notes of difterent pitch are heard together. Dyspnoea is present in about one-third of all cases, and is most common in multiple papillo- mata and in large growths such as lipomata. Dysphagia is very rare, and only occurs in large growths at the entrance to the larynx. A feeling of something obstructing the larynx, and giving rise to a frequent desire to clear the throat, is not unusual, but cough is a rare symptom. At times, however, it is severe and paroxysmal, when the growth has a long pedicle which allows of its free movement. In a unique case, reported by Sommerbrodt, severe epileptic seizures, which had resisted all treatment, were cured by the removal of a large fibroma. There is never any pain complained of in simple growths, and the general health is imaffected, except in cases of severe cough or dyspnoea. Diagnosis. — Though we may suspect the presence of a laryngeal growth from the symp- toms, the only certain method of diagnosis is by a laryngoscopic examination. As a rule this will not only reveal the presence of a growth, but also enable us at once to determine its character. Only the very inexperienced will mistake the excrescences around a tubercular or syphilitic ulcer for a new growth. The warty growth in the inter-arytenoid space, so common in laryngeal phthisis, can hardly be mistaken for papilloma, as in this situation papillomata are practically never found. At the anterior commissure, how- ever, I have known a tubercular tumour to be indistinguishable from a simple growth, till the microscope revealed its true nature. Such cases, however, are rare; but a difficulty will more frequently arise in distinguishing a simple from a malignant papilloma at an early stage. The importance of this subject demands a fuller statement, and attention to the following points will assist us in making a diagnosis :— 1. Age of patient.—Simple growths rarely originate after fifty years of age, therefore the presumption is strongly in favour of malignancy, if the growth is recent in a patient over that age. Under forty, malignant disease of the larynx is exceedingly rare.