LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 211 large, and the uterine action is not often strong enough to drive a child in an unfavourable position through the pelvis. When the child's progress through the pelvis is mechanically impossible, or possible only under exceptional conditions, a skilful accou- cheur ought to find this out at the beginning of the labour, and apply proper treatment before Fia. 1.—Diagram showing thickening of the upper part of the uterus, thinning and stretching of the lower uterine segment. Labour obstructed by hydrocephalus. the mother's condition has suffered. If the accoucheur is not skilful, or is not sent for in time, the condition known as obstructed labour gradually develops. We owe our knowledge of this condition to Braxton Hicks, who was the first to carefully observe it. When labour is obstructed, the pains follow one another with increasing rapidity; the pauses between them Os externum. parts suffer from the pressure; the uterus becomes tender, and the damage by pressure makes it prone to become inflamed after de- livery. The continuous pressure hinders the circulation through the placental site upon which the supply of oxygen to the foetus depends, and may thus kill the fojtus by asphyxia. If the cord be wound round a hard part of the foetus, it is possible that the con- tinuously contracting uterus may so compress it as to stop the circulation through it and thus kill the foetus. The uterine contractions expend much nerve force ; and the faster they occur and the longer labour lasts, the greater the strain upon the nervous system. The pain also depresses nervous tone, and to these things is added want of sleep, for the patient cannot sleep while labour is actively going on. When a large head is impacted on the pelvic cavity there is a further source of pain in the pres- sure on the sacral nerves; but this is of less importance in the exhaustion of the patient than the causes mentioned before. From these causes it results that the continuance of ob- structed labour is accompanied with progres- sively increasing exhaustion of the patient; this is marked by the pulse becoming quicker and smaller, the facial expression anxious, the patient restless, her lips parched and her tongue brown. If her condition continues unrelieved, she will die. If the existence of disproportion is not recog- nised, and ergot is given, the symptoms of obstructed labour will develop more quickly; and if proper treatment is not applied, the fatal termination will come sooner. The upper part of the uterus is that which contracts; the lower part, that below the equator of the foetal head, has to dilate, and is pulled by the upper part up over the head. When obstructed labour has lasted long, the upper part of the uterus becomes thick, and Ring of Bandl. FlQ. 2.—Showing thinning of lower uterine segment. (Drawn by Dr. T. W. P. Lawrence, from a specimen in the Museum of the University College, London, by permission of Sir T. Williams.) get shorter and shorter until at length there is no pause, but the uterus is in continuous contraction. While this is going on the liquor amnii gradually drains away, and the uterus becomes more and more closely moulded to the body of the child. The child, hence, loses its mobility, and the pressure of the most salient and hard foetal parts upon the parts of the uterus opposed to them becomes continuous. These the lower segment thin. The line where the thick part joins the thin can sometimes be felt through the abdominal wall, and is called the ring of Bandl, after the Austrian obstetri- cian who first described it. When there is no hindrance to the pulling up of the cervix uteri, the lower segment of the uterus, the cervix, and the vagina are all equally stretched, and the junction between the