LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 214 ward pressure of the femora is to widen the pelvis. The widening is also aided by the growth of the lateral masses of the sacrum, which is wider in proportion to its length in the adult than in the child, and by the growth of the ilia. In the child, the posterior half of the pelvic ring is formed almost entirely by the sacrum; but in the adult, the sacrum only forms a part of it, the rest being formed by the ilia. Fig. 7.—Sagittal section of flat pelvis. AB, true conjugate; AC, diagonal conjugate; CD, antero-posterior diameter of outlet. (After Pinard.) These normal developmental changes vary in degree, from causes that we know not; just as some members of the same family grow tall, others short—we know not why. If the changes that have been described proceed to an excess, the promontory of the sacrum is lower down and farther forward, and the sacrum is more curved from above downwards than it should be. The A Fig. 8.—Diagram of the generally contracted flat non-rickety pel- vis : black line normal pelvis; dotted line contracted pelvis. E, sacral concavity and brim; BB, sacrum ; CC, transverse diameter; DD, ilio-pectineal eminence ; A, sympbysis. conjugate diameter at the brim is then less than the average, but the other measurements of the pelvis are of average size. A pelvis of this shape is called ?kjiat pelvis ; it is one of the commonest pelvic deformities. Sometimes the normal developmental changes are deficient in degree. The pelvis does not increase in breadth as it ought to do; the sacrum may be straighter than usual, and the promontory higher. Such a pelvis, contracted mainly in its transverse measurements, is called t\ie generally contracted pelvis—the pelvis cequali- biter justo minor, or the small round pelvis. Sometimes the two conditions just described occur together : the growth of the ilia and lateral masses of the sacrum is defective, and so the pelvis does not attain its normal breadth, and at the same time the promontory of the sacrum is driven unduly forward and downwards. Then a pelvis is produced which is contracted in the conjugate diameter and in the transverse dia- meters also; this form of pelvis is called the generally contracted and flattened pelvis, or the small flat pelvis. In the forms of contracted pelvis just described, there is no evidence of any disease of the bones, and there is no deformity elsewhere. The patients are often undersized ; but they may be of average stature, or even above the average. We know A c c YiQ. 9.—Diagram of pelvic cavity of generally contracted flat non-rickety pelvis. AB, true conjugate; AC, diagonal con jugate; CD, antero-posterior diameter of outlet. nothing as to why these defects in growth occur. These minor degrees of pelvic contraction are not accompanied with any peculiarities of attitude or gait: they can only be detected by careful examination and measurement of the pelvis. The fiat pelvis and the small round pelvis are the commonest kinds of pelvic deformity. I know of no trustworthy statistics showing how common they are in England. The practice of lying-in hospitals and of specialists gives not a true representation of their frequency, for patients go to such places and persons because they are known or suspected to have contracted pelves. Two rare kinds of pelvis are often described as varieties of the small round pelvis. One is the dwarfs pelvis. This is a pelvis which is like the rest of the skeleton of a dwarf in being diminutive in size, but not deformed in shape. Females whose growth is so stunted that they may be properly spoken of as " dwarfs" are generally sterile. I know of no account of labour in a dwarf. The other is the small round rickety