162 LABOUR, PHYSIOLOGY OF occiput with the neck, 4 inches. This diameter may be shortened almost half an inch by taking the measurement from the posterior angle of the bregma, a point of importance in the movement of flexion in the mechanism of labour, which see (p. 174). B. Transverse.—Biparietal, joining the pari- etal eminences, 3^ inches. Bitemporal, between the widest points of the coronal suture, 3 inches. Bifrontal, the widest part of the head anteriorly, 2 J inches. C. Vertical.—Fron to-mental, from the chin to the iipper part of forehead, 3 inches. Trachelo-bregmatic, from the foramen magniun to the bregma, 3 inches. The circumference of the head in the occipito- mental plane is 16 inches, in the occipito-frontal plane 14 inches, and in the suboccipito-breg- matic plane from 11 to 12 inches. As a whole the foetal head is wedge-shaped ; viewed from above, it slopes away forwards from the parietal eminences and back to the occiput. During labour the diameters of the head are considerably diminished by the overriding of the bones, equitation. The occiput passes beneath the parietals, and the posterior parietal bone is driven beneath the anterior. From the measurements of the foetal head it will be seen how closely they correspond with the available capacity of the bony parturient canal, and how finely balanced, therefore, must be the mechanism to allow of expulsion through its lumen. As has already been shown (see "Foetus," vol. iii.), the foetus lies in a membranous sac, surrounded by liquor amnii, and attached to the uterus by the placenta and umbilical cord, through which it derives its nourishment and oxygen, and excretes waste products. As the foetus forms by far the largest portion of the ovimi, its expidsion is undoubtedly the main feature in the mechanism of labour. It has, therefore, to be closely studied: 1st, as regards the manner it is disposed in the uterine cavity at the onset of labour; and, 2nd, with reference to the measurements of the largest diameters which pass through the parturient canal during labour, the foetal head. ''Disposition" of Foetus in Utero.— By this is meant the general relation of the foetus as a whole to the uterine cavity. This embraces (a) the rektion of the foetal parts to one another, "attitude " of the foetus ; {h) the relation of the long axis of the foetus to the uterine cavity, with special reference to the most dependent part or "presentation" of the foetus; and (c) the relation of the presenting part to the parturient canal, "position" of foetus. The " attitude " of the foetus is one of almost complete flexion. The head is flexed on the chest so that the chin is in contact with the sternum; the vertebral column is bent on its ventral aspect, and the thighs, knees, and elbows are all acutely flexed. By this means the foetus forms an ovoid, and occupies the least possible space, and at the same time is a compact mass which is acted upon by the powers during ex- pulsion to the greatest advantage. Such a marked degree of flexion is obtained that the length of the foetal ovoid in ntero is barely half of the actual length of the child when born. Thus a fiill-time child of 20 inches measures m ut.e7-o scarcely 10 inches from pole to pole. The cephalic extremity or pole is the smaller (Fig. 2). In its disposition in %Uero the long axis of the foetal ovoid naturally corresponds to the long axis of the viterine cavity, which is usually vertical. Thus one or other pole of the foetus usually presents. In over 96 per cent of cases the cephalic pole presents; this is due to the accommodation of the foetal ovoid to the uterine ovoid, the smaller end of the ovoid uterine cavity being normally the lower (Fig. 2). In 3 per cent of full-time labours the podalic extremity or breech of the foetus presents; in these instances the change of presentation is probably due to some change either in the foetal ovoid or in the shape of the viterine cavity. In less than '5 per cent the foetus lies transversely in the uterus (shoulder presentations). The relation of the presenting part to the parturient canal, so-called "position," varies considerably before the onset of labour. In vertex presentations the different positions are named according to the situation of the occiput. Under normal conditions the longest diameter of the vertex (occipito-frontal) lies in one or other oblique diameter of the brim; thus the occiput may be to the front or back, either on the left or right side. Four positions are thus described, viz., left occipito-anterior, right occipito-anterior, right occipito-posterior, and left occipito-posterior—the first, second, third, and fourth positions of Naegele in the order named. The relative frequency of these posi- tions is L.O.A. 65 per cent, R.O.A. 10 per cent, R.O.P. 20 per cent, L.O.P. 5 per cent. It will then be seen that in 85 per cent of vertex cases the occipito-frontal diameter lies in the right oblique diameter of the pelvis, and 65 per cent with the occiput forwards. This is accounted for by the fact that the right oblique is the most available diameter of the pelvic brim, the left oblique being encroached on by the full sigmoid flexure of the colon. That the occiput is so frequently forwards is to be ex- plained by the accommodation of the foetal ovoid to the uterine ovoid, the convex back of the foetus becoming accommodated to the mark- edly concave anterior aspect of the uterine cavity. From its frequency, therefore, the normal pre- sentation and position is the vertex L.O.A. Further reference to the position, presentation, and attitnde of the foetus will be found on p. 169 et seq.