LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS 328 safeguards. The inspired air then impinges directly on the pharynx and larynx, and being cold, dry, and unfiltered, it deposits its im- purities on these surfaces, which it robs of warmth and moisture. There are not in the pharynx any arrangements similar to those in the turbinal bodies of the nose for the protection of the organism, and consequently its mucous membrane becomes dry, congested, and chroni- cally inflamed. Besides thus influencing the properties of inspired air, nasal and pharyngeal aft'ections also predispose to chronic laryngitis by the possible spread of catarrh by direct continuity of tissue, and by the septic and irritant matter which may find its way directly into the larynx. Chronic nasal troubles also predispose to laryn- gitis by the "hemming" and hawking which they sometimes excite, and also by interfering with one of the chief resonating cavities of the voice. In this way increased strain is thrown on the laryngeal muscles, and catarrh and paresis are more easily induced. Chronic laryngitis may be the consequence of chronic catarrh of the trachea and bronchi. Whether this is the result of direct propagation, or is due to the coughing prodvxced and the straining efforts necessitated to expel the mucus, it is certain that it is a much more common cause than in the acute affection. Many cases of laryngeal catarrh are overlooked from a neglect to examine the chest for emphysema and chronic bronchitis. An inveterate form of laryngitis sometimes precedes the development of any physical sign of laryngeal or pulmonary tuberculosis. Any inflammatory or lUcerative processes in che mouth, uncleaned or carious teeth, and pyorrhoea alveolaris, are also conditions which may be etiological factors in the disease. Diathetic or visceral disorders are frequent causes of catarrh of the upper air-passages. Thus gastro-intestinal, hepatic, cardiac, and even renal defects will either directly cause catarrh, or will produce a reflex cough, which in its turn and through its persistency sets up chronic inflammation. The same may be said for rheumatism and gout, the former producing a painful and the latter a very persistent form of laryngitis. All the direct or reflex causes of cough may be claimed as productive of laryngitis, in that the cough will itself induce a laryngeal catarrh. It may form part of an attack of asthma or hay-fever; and has been traced to frequent fits of weeping. Excessive, and more particularly faulty, use of the voice is a potent factor in production of chronic laryngitis, particularly in those who are predisposed by any of the conditions already mentioned. The chronic affection very frequently dates from an attack of acute laryngitis, especially if the patient has not rested the voice carefully during the illness, or has returned too soon to his use of it, or to unsanitary surroundings. All ages are subject to this aff'ection, although it is more commonly met with in adult life. Both sexes may be affected, although men, from exposure to the causes already enumerated, are more prone to it than women. Women are said to be more subject to it if exposed to any of the exciting causes during the period of menstrua- tion. John Mackenzie has drawn attention in an interesting study to the relationship between disorders of the sexual system and aft'ections of the larynx. 1 Some drugs, and particularly iodide of potassium, will produce a laryngeal catarrh which might be mistaken for chronic laryngitis. With sensitive subjects the inhalation of certain odours are even sufficient to induce an attack.^ As a secondary phenomenon chronic laryngitis is nearly always present in long-continued dis- eases of the larynx, such as tuberculosis, lupus, syphilis, leprosy, paralysis, and in the formation of new growths, simple and malignant. Amongst the general external conditions which give rise to chronic laryngitis the reader is referred to the article on the acute form. It is here sufficient to recall that the chief enemies of the larynx are dust, alcohol, and tobacco. Pathology.—In this affection there is per- manent hyperaemia of the blood-vessels from long-standing irritation. There is small-celled infiltration of the submucous tissues. The epi- thelium may be abraded in parts. In many cases there is a certain amount of myositis, owing to the proximity of the intrinsic muscles to the mucous surfaces. The mucous glands are stimulated into increased flow of a thick, tenacious secretion ; but it is hardly likely that the racemose glands should be so exclusively affected as to justify the description of a separate variety under the title of glandular laryngitis, as has been done by the older authors. Symptoms.—The constant, and sometimes the only, symptom complained of is the alteration of the voice. This is husky at first, with intervals when it may somewhat suddenly and unexpectedly resume its natural clearness; but as the affection becomes established the hoarse- ness is more persistent. The tone of the voice is always lowered, and the vocalisation becomes harsh. Aphonia is seldom complete, except after prolonged or extreme forcing of the damaged organ. The hoarseness is more marked after a rest, or on rising in the morning, and tends to disappear after a little use; but if this restora- tion of voice is at all freely made use of, the hoarseness tends to become worse than before, and in any case it is apt to recur later in the day. The patient is conscious of the increased ' John Mackenzie, Journ. of Laryng., March 1898. ^ Joal, Revue de laryngol., 1894.