334 LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS themselves, more or less closing up the glottic space below the level of the vocal cords. Each swelling presents a margin parallel to the vocal cord above it, and at first sight gives the suggestion of a second and inferior vocal cord. Not only do these two swellings encroach on the glottic chink and so produce dyspnoea, but on phonation it is seen that they considerably impair the complete approximation of the cords and so interfere with the voice. The colour may be of the translucent, greyish-white character met with in nasal polypi, and in these cases, if examined with a laryngeal probe, the thickenings will some- times be found to be oedematous. In other cases they are solid, and the colour varies from dull catarrhal pink to vivid congested red. Diagnosis. — With increased precision in diagnosis this aifection, as a primary disease, has become rarer. There was always consider- able doubt as to its exact pathological nature, and in many cases it is doubtless due to tuberculous or syphilitic lesions. It has to be differentiated from rhinoscleroma. The latter is,, however, a rare affection in this country, and as a rule is accompanied or even preceded by charac- teristic changes in the nose and pharynx. If ex- amined with a probe the latter growth is found to be hard and cartilaginous; and if a portion of it is removed and sections properly stained, they will show the bacilli of rhinoscleroma. Prognosis.—In common with other affections of the subglottic region, this form of chronic laryngitis renders the prognosis much graver than in the ordinary forms. This is due to two factors: one is that, being enclosed in the inextensible shield of the thyroid plate, any increase in size must press entirely towards the lumen of the air-tube, which is thus apt to become dangerously narrowed; the second factor is the difficulty of directly treating diseases situated below the vocal cords. Treatment.—The plan of treatment recom- mended in chronic laryngitis (p. 329) should be followed with perseverance. The thickening and consequent narrowing may be met by the passage of dilators, such as Schroetter's tubes, or by intubation. When the swellings are (Edematous they should be scarified; and if the dyspnoea becomes dangerous, tracheotomy should be performed. The tracheotomy may also give an opportunity for more complete treatment of the infraglottic stenosis. With the recent improvements in the performance of thyrotomy, and the good results obtained, this condition appears to offer a favourable field for laryngo-fissure. Nodular Laryngitis Synonyms : Singers' Nodules, Teachers' Nodules, Chorditis tuberosa, Chorditis nodosa. Tra- choma of the Vocal Cords. Definition.—A form of chronic laryngitis, produced chiefly by faulty use of the voice, and characterised by thickening of the vocal cords. Symptoms.—While presenting many of the symptoms of chronic laryngitis, the most char- acteristic ones of this variety are hoarseness and voice fatigue. A few days' rest will frequently sufficiently restore the voice for work; but it soon gets husky towards the end of the day's work, and by the end of the week the patient is frequently quite hoarse. The rest on Sunday is sometimes sufficient to enable the patient, if a teacher, to resume work in the following week, but increasing effort is required in talking, and if care is not taken distinct " nodules" are formed. In singers this result is brought about by a faulty method of voice production, particu- larly by attempts to sing in a register beyond the patient's powers, and by " squeezing" the voice; hence they are most commonly met with in tenor and soprano voices, and are rarely, if ever, encountered in basses and contraltos. The method called the co^ip de glotte has been particularly blamed as a cause of singers' nodules. Although these small hypertrophies have gener- ally been called "singers' nodules," they are met with very frequently in those who only misuse their voices in talking or lecturing. Moure states that the condition is frequently met with in children who join in part singing, and are forced to take a register beyond their compass. 1 Etiology.—This affection of the vocal cords is induced by the same causes which are re- sponsible for chronic laryngitis and chronic hypertrophic laryngitis {q.v.). It differs from them in etiology in that the use, or rather the misuse, of the voice is one constant factor. In many cases it appears to be the preponderating if not the unique cause; but from the greater frequency with which it is met in young female teachers, it is clear that there are other causes at work—anaemia, irregularities of digestion and menstruation, etc. Pathology.—The hypertrophy may be more marked on one side than on the other, but it is generally bilateral. It may affect the upper or inner surface of the cord. It is found to consist of increase of normal stratified epithelium in the simpler cases ; but in others there is a small- celled infiltration of the submucous layer—very scanty in this region—while many distinct "nodules" are found under the microscope to present the characters of oedematous fibromata. In certain cases, as pointed out by Kanthack,^ the inflammatory process is not limited to the mucous surface, but entails a certain amount of myositis. Examination.—Inspection of the larynx al- ways shows—together with more or less general laryngeal catarrh—hypertrophy of the vocal cords, rarely one-sided. In some cases this 1 Rcvuc de laryngol., Feb. 8, 1896. - Kanthack, Trans. Lm-yngol. Soc. London, ]897.