358 LARYNX, MALIGNANT DISEASE OF cases the use of iodide of potassium will have to solve the doubt. It will, indeed, be found a good rule to begin in every case of malignant disease, whether there be any doubt as to the correctness of the diagnosis or not, with the administration of iodide of potassium in large doses for a week or a fortnight's time. The initial dose ought to be 10 grains three times a day, and this may be pushed to 30 grains or even more three times daily. No conclusions as to the efficacy of that drug, however, must be drawn from a mere subjective improvement. Often enough, even in cases of cancer, iodide of potassium has a transitory beneficial influence by resorbing the oedema surrounding the actual growth, and the patient in such cases feels and swallows better, without the disease being actually arrested. It is only from the occur- rence of actual changes for the better in the patient's larynx that a conclusion can be drawn as to the syphilitic, as against the malignant, nature of the ulcer. In the great majority of cases the differential diagnosis of malignant disease of the larynx from tuberculosis is much easier than that from syphilis. The general constitutional symptoms, the almost always concomitant pulmonary affec- tion, the patient's age, the bacteriological ex- amination of the sputum, the characteristic pallor of the larynx, the pseudo-cedematous infiltration of the mucous membrane over the epiglottis and arytenoid cartilages; the slow development of the ulcers—their large number and generally small size; the absence of con- siderable infiltration of the glands in the neck ;— all these signs will, in the great majority of cases, easily enough show the tuberculous natvire of a laryngeal ulceration. Still there are some cases in which the differ- ential diagnosis is enormously difficult. Thus a case of my own, observed in a gentleman, aged over fifty, in which an ulcer surrounded by oedematous tissue occupied the posterior end of a vocal cord, whilst the rest of the larynx was perfectly normal, and the lungs quite free, offered such diagnostic difficulties that an exploratory thyrotomy had to be performed. Even after the larynx had been opened, the nature of the disease remained doubtful, and only the histological examination made by Mr. Shattock whilst the operation was proceeding- revealed the tuberculous nature of the mischief. In another case just now under observation, more than one-half of the epiglottis of a gentle- man, aged sixty-three, had been destroyed by ulceration, whilst the remaining portion was changed into a shapeless red tumefaction, covered with greyish muco-pus. From the sides of this, more ulceration extended towards both the arytenoid and epiglottic folds. There were no signs whatever, locally or constitution- ally, of tuberculosis in the case, and everything, except that there was no infiltration of the cervical lymphatic glands, seemed to be in favour of malignant disease. The probatory removal, however, of a piece of the stump of the epiglottis definitely established, by means of the microscope, the presence of giant cells, and of very characteristic tubercular tissue. The ulcerated portion was removed by sub-hyoid pharyngotomy by Mr. Victor Horsley, and the patient is now making an excellent recovery. Several cases are known in which the whole larynx was removed, and this by good and com- petent observers, under the mistaken impression that the disease was carcinomatous, whilst in reality the disease was tuberculous. Still, such cases are veiy rare, and in the majority of cases the differential diagnosis between malignant disease and tuberculosis seldom offers any serious difficulties. In connection with this subject it ought, however, to be borne in mind that undoubtedly occasionally laryngeal carcinoma coexists with pulmonary tuberculosis, so that even the discovery of bacilli in the sputum cannot be looked upon as an infallible test. Exceedingly rarely will there be any danger of mistaking cancer or sarcoma of the larynx for lupus, or vice versa. To begin with, primary lupus of the larynx is very rare, and almost always there are concomitant signs in the nose, pharynx, and on the external integument. Secondly, the particularly worm-eaten appear- ance of the lupoid ulcers is very different from the deep and destructive ulcer, combined with a proliferating tumefaction, which characterises the later stages of malignant disease of the larynx. Extirpation of a fragment and micro- scopical examination will, in doubtful cases, help to establish the diagnosis. As repeatedly stated in previous paragraphs, the differential diagnosis of malignant disease of the larynx, when appearing in the form of a general infiltration, from a pei'ichondritis due to various causes, sometimes is very difficult; and additionally, it must not be forgotten that in the later stages of malignant disease of the larynx perichondritis forms one of the most regular symptoms. It has also been already stated that in some cases the symptoms of perichondritis so entirely mask the original disease, that the differential diagnosis as to the causes of the perichondritis may become a matter of the greatest difficulty, and sometimes altogether impossible. In some of these cases, nothing but prolonged observation after the failure of a course of iodide of potas- sium will settle the diagnosis ; a few cases have been described in which, not only during life, but even at the post-mortem examination, it was impossible to decide the actual nature of the case, and in which only the microscopical examination of the diseased organ finally settled the doubt. Under any circumstances the ob- server will do well, if he sees a case of otherwise inexplicable perichondritis of the larynx in a