263 LABOUR, POST-PARTUM HEMORRHAGE (3) The amount of fluid in the blood-vessels must be increased. The amount of fluid in the blood-vessels can be increased in the following ways: by administering abundance of fluid by the mouth; by rectal injections of salt and water ; by infusing saline solution directly into a vein, or into the subcutaneous connective tissue. As thirst is always present to a marked degree in these cases, it is never difficult to get the patient to drink large quantities of fluid as soon as she has rallied somewhat from her col- lapse. It is not, however, a method of increasing the fluid in the body which can be adopted at first, as sufficient quantities to have any effect in this direction would almost certainly cause vomiting. Rectal injections of saline solution of the same strength as that infused into a vein (0"6 per cent; roughly, a tea-spoonful of salt to a pint of water) will be absorbed most quickly. From one to two pints may be given, and it must be injected very slowly, as other- wise the patient will not retain it. The difficulty of retention of the fluid is often hard to overcome, and consequently in urgent cases one or other of the two remaining proceedings is usually adopted. Direct intravenous infusion of saline solution is the most rapid method of increasing the amount of fluid in the blood-vessels. It is a course of procedure which, while it has many supporters, has also a number of opponents on the grounds of its danger and uselessness. If it is carefully carried out, the risk attending it is by no means great, while doubts with regard to its usefulness are most probably due to the fact that it is suffering at present from the results of previous over-estimation. Intravenous in- fusion will not bring a patient who is in the last stage of collapse from hsemorrhage back to life, but, if it is performed before this stage is reached, it will in all probability prevent her from even falling into such a condition. To render the proceeding of use, a sufficient quan- tity of fluid at a proper temperature must be infused. The necessary amount will vary be- tween three and six or even eight pints; no definite quantity can be fixed which will suit all cases, but the infusion must be continued until there is a marked increase in the volume and strength of the pulse. The solution is used at a temperature of 100° to 102° F. In order that the proceeding may be as free from danger as possible, everything used in the operation must be sterile, and due precautions must be taken to prevent the entrance of air along with the fluid. The apparatus used consists of the following : a glass or metal funnel capable of holding at least two ounces; a rubber tube of about three feet in length; a small silver or white metal cannula with a blunt point ; and a scalpel, dissecting forceps, small needles, needle- holder, and fine silk. The operation is performed as follows :—Tie a bandage round the upper arm sufficiently tightly to compress the veins but not the arteries. By this means the veins below the bandage stand out sufficiently to be seen, and a suitable one can be selected. Ex- pose the latter by means of an incision about an inch in length made directly over it, isolate a small portion of it, and slip two silk ligatures beneath it; the distal ligature is tied to prevent hsemorrhage. A longitudinal incision of sufficient length to admit the tip of the cannula is made in the vein, and the cannula is introduced, care being taken that it is filled with saline solution. Next tie with a single knot the proximal liga- ture in such a manner as to compress the vein against the cannula, in order to prevent the escape of fluid, and remove the bandage which was compressing the arm. Before the cannula is introduced the entire apparatus must be filled with saline solution, its escape being pre- vented by pressure upon the tube. The fluid is now allowed to flow, an assistant taking care that the funnel is always full, and that no air gains admission. By holding the funnel from 10 to 18 inches above the patient, a sufficient pressure is obtained. As soon as the required quantity of fluid has been infused the cannula is removed, the vein cut across, the second ligature tied tightly, and the skin wound closed with sutures. Infusion into the cellular tissue has been substituted by many for intravenous infusion on account of the greater ease with which it is carried out. Kelly, who prefers it to all other means of infusion, injects the fluid into the sub-mammary cellular tissue. For this purpose he uses graduated bottles capable of holding a couple of pints, to which a tube 6 feet in length is connected. A long, slender, and sharp aspir- ating needle is fastened to the other end of the tube. The solution used is the same as for intravenous infusion, and a head of 6 feet is required to make the fluid run. To perform the operation, the breast after careful disin- fection is seized in the hand and lifted as far off the chest wall as possible. The needle, with the saline solution flowing, is then passed through the skin at the base of the breast and deeply into the connective tissue, taking care to keep clear of the gland structure. The fluid then runs in of its own accord, and as soon as no more will flow the needle is withdrawn. A piece of adhesive plaster fastened over the opening will prevent its subsequent escape. The breast will hold from a pint and a half to two pints, and the time required to infuse this amount is about twenty minutes. A similar amount can be infused under the other breast at the same time, if necessary. Instead of the breast, the fluid may be infused into the con- nective tissue of the buttock ; but the former site is preferable. The above is a short description of the im- mediate treatment necessary in post-hsemorrhagic