LABOUE, OPERATIONS-INDUCTION OF PREMATURE LABOUR •281 in cases in which natural labour at term could not fail to be attended by serious results. We have referred to the induction of labour in conditions such as persistent vomiting, albuminuria, and jaundice. Regarding these and other symptoms as manifestations of the so-called pre-eclamptic state (hepatic tox£emia of Pinard), we must look upon the induction of labour where thus indicated as a prophylactic against eclampsia, acute yellow atrophy, mania, melancholia, and other serious forms of auto- intoxication (see " Pregnancy, Affections and Complications"). It is not desirable to lose time after it is judged necessary to empty the uterus in such cases. The cervix should, therefore, be dilated at one sitting, first with solid and then with hydrostatic dilators, until a de Ribes' bag can be introduced, an antesthetic being used if necessary. In this way it is generally possible to end labour safely in from ten to twelve hours. ^ The same method should be employed when inducing labour for chorea, or for mental symptoms. In all the above cases Briggs's method may be preferred by some to the use of bags. Urgent conditions which directly endanger the life of the mother may demand even more active measures for empty- ing the uterus ; such are eclampsia and uterine hsemorrhage due to accidental separation of the placenta and to placenta prfevia. The treat- ment of these conditions is fully described in the articles under their names, to which the reader is accordingly referred. Induction of Abortion.—The induction of abortion in the later half of pregnancy, but before the seventh month, differs from the in- duction of premature labour only inasmuch as it is undertaken solely in conditions which threaten the life of the mother. Since the child cannot be saved, one objection to rupturing the membranes is removed, and this is an easy and certain means of ending pregnancy which is sufficient in many cases. If it is desired to empty the uterus rapidly, dilators may be em- ployed in the usual manner. The fifth month is perhaps the most awkward time at which to induce abortion, as at this time the placenta does not separate easily, and if it is retained it is difficult to remove, the uterus being too small to admit a whole hand, and too large for easy exploration with two fingers. In the first half of pregnancy, abortion should be induced by a method which dilates the cervix without ruptur- ing the membranes. For if the ovum is once broken it tends to come away in pieces through an OS but partially opened; the emptying of the uterus is then attended with difficulty, and sepsis is very apt to occur. Tents of laminaria used singly, or several side by side, with rigid antiseptic precautions, serve the purpose best. ^ The author induced labour in this way in eleven cases, the average time from insertion of the bag to delivery being eleven hours. When sufficient dilatation has been gained the tents should be withdrawn, the cervix and vagina being then packed with gauze to pro- mote uterine action. On removing the gauze six or eight hours later, the ovum may be found complete in the vagina. If part of the ovum has been expelled, the uterus should be com- pletely emptied at once without allowing time for the OS to close. If the whole ovum is still in utero, the packing may be resumed and more time may be allowed. As soon, however, as any suspicion of putrescence is indicated by the odour of the discharges, by rapidity of pulse, or high temperature, the uterus should be emptied with the fingers or the curette, after any further dilatation which may be needful has been secured by solid and hydrostatic dilators. Abortion may be induced when there is any obstruction due to abnormality of the hard or soft parts which renders the delivery of a viable child impossible, unless the mother prefers delivery by Csesarean section at term. For this purpose the operation should be done as early as possible. Any disease justifies abortion at any time if it threatens the mother's life and can be checked by the termination of pregnancy (see " Preg- nancy, Pathology of, Affections and Complica- tions "). It is necessary to add that abortion should never be induced without a consultation. 2. Forceps Invention ...... 281 Modes of Action . . . . .281 Construction . . . . . .282 Indications for Use .... 284 Mode of Employment .... 285 Dangers ...... 286 The invention of the harmless or safe mid- wifery forceps has been traced by Dr. Aveling to Peter Chamberlen, who was brought to Southampton when a lad, probably in his teens, by his Huguenot father, William Chamberlen, when the family fled from Paris in 1569, in time to escape the St. Bartholomew massacres. Peter and a younger brother, before their deaths, respectively in 1631 and 1626, acquired a great reputation for their skill in effecting delivery in difficult cases through their possession of an instrument, the nature of which they kept secret and handed down to the son, grandsons, and great-grandsons of the younger brother. Palfyn, a surgeon in Ghent, proposed the use of a rather inadequate variety of forceps in 1720; but the forceps really came into use towards the end of the seventeenth and beginning of the eighteenth centuries, when the nature of the Chamberlen secret began to leak out. In 1773 Chapman wrote a work on The Improvement of Midwifery, in which he described and advocated the em- ployment of a forceps modelled more or less on the Chamberlen pattern, and spoke of the instrument as already well known (see Fig. 1). Modes of Action.—Forceps may be conceived