LIFE INSUKANCE 417 as a very important factor in deciding whether a life is insurable as an average life or not. Whether such a case can be admitted at an increased rate of premium must depend to a great extent on the circumstances of the pro- poser. In justice to the companies, probably it would be better to reject all such cases ; but there may be circumstances where the risk to the company in accepting those lives would be limited. The experience of the companies has shown that cases of heart disease die not in the earlier, but in the later part of the insured period. These are, of course, selected lives, i.e. lives presumably free from heart disease on admission to insurance, and conclusions drawn from these statistics alone are liable to many fallacies. If a proposer with a cardiac murmur is to be admitted to insurance at all, the " load- ing " should be a heavy one, and it would be safer for the company to have the insurance in the form of an endowment insurance, payable at a certain age, as far below sixty as possible. In the examination of the circulatory organs the past history of the proposer and his family history ought to be carefully inquired into, with the object of finding out any traces of the rheumatic or gouty diathesis, both of which are well recognised to be associated with diseases of the heart and blood - vessels. The pulse should be carefully noted, not only as to its rate, but more carefiilly as to the state of the vessel wall for any trace of degeneration of the blood-vessels. Thickening of the arterial walls is an important symptom, and ought to debar a life from being accepted. The presence, of course, of even more serious vascular wall mischief, such as aneurysm, makes the risk too serious a one for the company to accept the proposal. As is well known, vas- cular degenerations are often the result of an attack of syphilis, and therefore a previous history of this disease is of considerable im- portance. A too rapid or too slow pulse are suspicious symptoms, the first because it may indicate the presence of other diseases such as consumption, as well as a disturbance of the nervous mechan- ism of the heart's action, the latter because it is often associated with serious degeneration of the heart muscle. It must not, however, be forgotten that both are to a certain extent con- sistent with health, and that the former may be produced by nervousness (" the insurance heart"). A past history of rheumatism, of scarlet fever, and of chorea should make the examination more searching, because they are so apt to be associated with endocarditis and disease of the heart. The presence of pericarditis or a pericardial murmur should at least cause the postponement of the insurance. Many such murmurs entirely disappear, and althovigh, therefore, it would be too great a risk to accept a candidate with a pericardial murmur, the same VOL. V life might be accepted later at the usual or an increased rate. So also with a case having a murmur which is believed to be anaemic in origin. Such a proposal should be postponed, and the candidate should be submitted to an examination later on in order to ascertain if the murmur has actually disappeared with the dis- appearance of the anaemia. Examination of the Organs of Digestion.— Inquiries ought to be made as to the presence of indigestion, bilious attacks, constipation, or diarrhoea, as indicating whether the proposer is in robust health or not. I take it that the mere presence of occasional indigestion alone is not sufficient to reject a proposal; but a history of indigestion may indicate the presence of a serious disease such as gastric ulcer, cancer of the stomach or liver, or cirrhosis of the liver, any one of which would render the life uninsurable. Physical examination of the abdomen should never be omitted, the size of the liver and spleen being noted. Habits as to drinking and eating should be specially inquired into in this connection. It is well known that intemperance and the habitual use of alcohol to excess leads to disorders of the stomach and liver, especially to cirrhosis of the latter organ. A history of repeated attacks of appendicitis makes the life a more risky one unless the appendix has been removed by surgical operation. With regard to hernia, all the best companies require a declaration from the proposers that if ever they have rupture they will constantly wear a well-fitting rupture truss. The wearing of such a truss reduces the extra risk in such cases to a minimum. The presence of an abnormal amount of adi- posity is an important factor, but this has already been referred to under height and weight. The presence of dropsy indicates some serious cardiac liver or kidney disease. State of the Urinary Organs.—Formerly the insurance companies only insisted on examina- tion of the urine in cases where the examiners were suspicious of kidney disease, but all the best companies now require a report of the result of the usual tests for abnormalities. The specific gravity, the reaction, and whether there is present albumin, sugar, or other abnormal products, should be noted. A very high or very low specific gravity may raise the suspicion either of diabetes or Bright's disease, and further tests may or may not confirm the suspicion. Undoubted cases of diabetes or Bright's disease are uninsurable. The presence of sugar in any considerable quantity in the urine of young lives must always be taken as an indication of true diabetes mellitus, and therefore a bar to insur- ance ; but it is well known that in persons past middle life the presence of a small quantity of sugar in the urine is not such a serious matter,