LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF 203 the child's abdomen, placing the other hand over the fundus of the uterus. The anterior leg will be found the most convenient to bring down. When the fingers have reached the knee partial flexion is induced by pressing it out- wards and backwards, and pass the hand up and seize the ankle with the first finger and thumb. By pulling the ankle downwards the knee is completely flexed; then by further pulling on the ankle the thigh is extended, and thus brought out of the uterus. Be careful only to pull on the ankle. If this plan is to be adopted, it should be done early before the litems has contracted tightly on the child. If the second stage has lasted some time and the uterus is tightly contracted over its contents, it is better to bring down the breech. Traction on the breech hy the fillet is carried out by passing over one or both groins a silk pocket handkerchief or a bit of strong banding, which has previously been boiled and then put into an antiseptic solution for a short time. The end of the loop is seized and jjulled upon; the traction thus supplied is, as a rule, very successful. The hlunt hook is the easiest way of delivery in a really difficult case ; but unless used with very great care, it is apt to injure the child's genitals or lacerate the femoral vessels. If the child is dead the blunt hook can be used without fear, and will quickly deliver (see "Labour, Operations"). Forceps may be applied to the breech, but the objection is that the ordinary shape of forceps is not suited to shape, and is very apt to injure the child. Special forceps have been made, but they are required so seldom that it is better to be prepared to deliver by simpler means. Delivery of the Head in Cases with the Face Ante7'io7:—The mechanism of the delivery is described on p. 186. It is often impossible to deliver the child without extensive lacerations. If the head is above the brim, pass the hand up into the hollow of the sacrum behind the head, and then move the hand round until it reaches the mouth. This turns the head to the side of the pelvis, which is the position in which the head can best pass the brim. Should this fail, forceps must then be tried ; and if then unsuccessful, resort must be made to perforation. If the head is in the j^dvic cavity, the delivery can best be assisted by helping the head to flex further on the chest, and the chin and the rest of the face to glide under the arch. This is done by drawing the woman to the edge of the bed, depressing the body of the child, and carry- ing it well backwards; this draws the chin from behind the symphysis. If the face sticks put the fingers far back into the child's mouth, so that the face comes gradually out from behind the pubis, followed by the forehead and occiput. Injuries to the Child in Breech Deliveries. —In breech deliveries where it has been neces- sary to assist nature in expelling the child, various injuries to almost all the diff'erent tissues and organs of the body have been described. Laceration and bruising may occur in the muscles of the neck and back ; the best known one is hsematoma of the sterno-mastoid, caused by hEiemorrhage into the sheath of the muscle. The tumour formed is usually about the size of a pigeon's egg; it disappears gradually in about six months, but is sometimes followed by per- manent shortening, which is one of the causes of torticollis. Hcemorrhage may also occur in the abdomen and cranium. The former is due to injury to the liver and suprarenals, which can best be avoided by only pulling on the trunk when grasping the pelvic girdle. Meningeal hannorrhage and also ha3morrhage into the brain substance itself are fairly common, and may occur quite independently of fracture of the skull bones. The late results of this injury are :— The genital organs are very liable to injury if the blunt hook is used. Spiegelberg records a case where the penis and scrotum of a child were completely destroyed. Paralysis of the brachial 2')lexus has followed hard pulling on the shoulders in order to deliver the head quickly. This occurs without an accom- panying fracture of the clavicle, and lasts from a few days to weeks; recovery invariably follows. The sjnnal cord can be torn across in the cervical regions ; this is especially apt to occur in delivery of the head by the Prague method, the whole force being transmitted through the neck. Almost all the bones can be fractured. In the skull we meet with the basilar portion of the occipital being separated from the squamous. The parietal bones may be fractured. The vertebral column can be torn across; this, as in cases when the spinal cord in the cervical region is injured, occurs in cases that have been delivered by Prague's method. Fractures of the clavicle and humerus occur, that of the clavicle being fairly common. Fracture of the lower limbs sometimes is met with, but is not usual. (For methods of treat- ment, see " New-born Child, Injuries of.") By putting the finger in the mouth various injuries have occurred; e.g. dislocation of the jaw and detachment of the condylar epiphyses may occur, separation of the two halves of the lower jaw at the symphysis, or the jaw may be dislocated, or the condylar epiphyses may be detached. The soft tissues in the floor of the mouth may also be torn. Transverse Presentation A transverse presentation so rarely rectifies itself, and the results of allowing such a pre-