LENS (CRYSTALLINE) 381 which the lens is displaced. There is often, too, a difference of refraction according to the posi- tion of the head, the myopia being greater owing to the falling forwards of the lens when the head is held down. There is a tendency on comparatively slight injuries to the eye, in these cases, for the lens to become dislocated into the anterior chamber. Traumatic dislocation of the lens is not an in- frequent occurrence. The lens may be dislocated forwards into the anterior chamber or backwards into the vitreous. When the blow causing the displacement also leads to rupture of the sclera, the lens may be dislocated out of the eye altogether and lie under the conjunctiva. Lenticoniis is a curious and rare anomaly. Most commonly the conical projection occurs in the posterior surface of the lens (lenticonus posterior). These cases are probably connected in some way with developmental changes. The eflfect of the conical protrusion is to cause a high degree of central myopia. Less frequently a conical projection of the anterior surface has been met with; the pathology of this condition is unknown. Microphahia is an abnormally small lens. In this condition, though otherwise well developed, the lens is very much smaller than normal. Coloboma of the lens is a fairly common con- genital effect. Most frequently only a slight flattening or notch is found to exist in the lower or lower and inner portion of the lens equator. Sometimes, however, the notch is deep, and is then generally associated with coloboma of the iris, or with ectopia lentis. Different views are entertained as to the cause of this condition. Apparently all cases, at all events, are not due to localised defects of nutrition caused by im- perfect closure of the foetal fissure. It seems likely that in a number of cases a delay in the absorption of the vascular tissues found in the foetus may cause notching by pressure. Lenses. See Refraction {Lenses). Lenticonus. See Lens, Crystalline (^Lenticonus). LentiCUla.r.—Having the shape of a lens or lentil (bean), e.g. the lenticular muscles of the corpus striatum. See Athetosis {Morbid Anatomy); Brain, Physiology of (Lenticular Nucleus); Physiology, Nervous System {Cere- hrvrni). Lentig'O.—A pigmentary affection of the skin, consisting in the formation of small freckles or yellowish spots on the face and hands. See Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Epithelial Pigmentation). Le nt i IS. See Physiology, Food and Diges- tion (Vegetable Food-Stuffs, Legumens). Lentin. — Meta-phenylenediamine hydro- chlorate, a white crystalline powder, soluble both in water and alcohol, recommended in the treatment of diarrhoea of children (dose, | grain) and adults {Merck). LeontiasiS HystriX.—The grave form of ichthyosis or porcupine skin. See Ichthyosis {Ichthyosis Hystrix Gravior). Leontia.SiS OSSea. (megalocephaly) is the disease, first recognised by Virchow, which is characterised by hyperostosis of the facial and cranial bones. The cause of the disease is unknown, and there is no definite evidence that either trauma, rickets, or syphilis are causal factors. The onset is, as a rule, noticed in early life—from the tenth to the thirtieth year—and the disease progresses very slowly, as the patient may live for twenty or thirty years after the first appearance of the disease. A somewhat similar affection is said to occur in monkeys. There are two main forms of leontiasis ossea, but some cases represent con- ditions intermediate between the two extremes. 1. Localised hyperostosis with the formation ot " bosses" resembling osteomata, and com- posed either of cancellous or compact bone, whilst the bone for a varying distance around the bosses shows a diffuse hyperostosis. The bony masses attain a large size, are often symmetrical, affect chiefly the maxillge, less frequently the nasal and frontal bones; cause great deformity of the skull; encroach on the cavities of the orbit and mouth, on the nose and its accessory sinuses, and exert pressure on various peripheral nerves. The first sign of the disease is usually the development on the upper or lower jaw of one side of a swell- ing, which very slowly enlarges. The further symptoms and deformity vary according to the site and bulk of the osteomatous masses; exophthalmos is the result of partial obliteration of the orbital cavity, whilst epiphora and inter- ference with nasal respiration and with the taking of food may also occur. After the disease has lasted for a variable time the patient suffers from the effects of pressure on various nerves, as in diffuse hyperostosis. 2. Diffuse Hyperostosis.—The skull is large and heavy; the skull bones, though unequally affected, are all involved, their surface is uneven, but there are no large exostoses. The diploe is either preserved or replaced by com- pact bones, and the fossae, bony cavities, nerve channels, and also their foramina, are con- stricted. It is very seldom that other bones than those of the skull have been also affected. There are only twelve cases in the literature where the clinical symptoms are recorded. Deformity of the skull has usually been an early sign, and varies according to the bones mainly involved—e.g. the frontals may become very prominent; exophthalmos gradually