126 KIDNEY however, the stone is so firmly impacted that this is impossible, and an incision in the long- axis of the u]-eteral wall (ureterotomy) directly on to the culciilus is necessary for its removal. The ureteric wound should, if possible, be siitured; but when the stone is directly cut upon, the damage already produced by pressure may render this inadvisable (Morris). In all cases, whether sutures be applied or not, drainage of the wound should be provided for in case of retroperitoneal leakage. In the case of a stone impacted in the pelvic portion of the ureter the same method may be employed; but in the female an incision through the vaginal wall is best in stones impacted low down, and in the male the stone can be removed through the perineum (Fenwick). Strictures of the ureter are now treated in the same way as pyloric stenosis by a longi- tudinal incision united transversely (Heineke- Mikidicz method), or the contracted portion of the tube may be resected, and the lumen re- established by one of the various methods of " uretero-ureteric anastomosis." Ureterectomy consists in partial or even total removal of a diseased ureter; it has been employed in tubercular and also in suppurative ureteritis, being performed either at the same time as nephrectomy or at a later date. Kiestein or Kyestein.—A whitish scum or pellicle (consisting of phosphates), a product of decomposition, which forms on the surface of urine which has been allowed to remain in a vessel for some hours after being voided; it is not now regarded (although it was so formerly) as a sign of pregnancy. See Pregnancy, Physiology {Changes in the Urine). Kiln-burning;.—The burning of bricks in an open furnace is, on account of the sul- phurous gases evolved, an offensive trade ; but if closed kilns be used there is little or no nuisance. KinsestiiesiS. — The muscular sense. See Physiology, Senses {Muscle and Joint Sense). Kinsesthesiometer or Kinesi- aSStliesiOmeter. — A means of testing and measuring the muscular sensibility. Kincoug'h. Ste Whooping Cough. Kindergrarten Teach ing^. See Mind, Education of (" Learn by Doing "). KinesioneurOSiS.—A malady of the nervous system in which muscular action is abnormal. Kings's Evil.—Scrofula. See Evil; TUBEIICULOSIS. Kinks. See Intestines, Surgical Affec- tions OF {Ol)Structio7i, Kinks). Kino.—A reddish-coloured juice obtained from the Pterocarpus nuirsupium, a tall tree of Malabar, is evaporated to dryness to give small, reddish-coloured angular fragments. It contains kinotannic acid, to which it owes its astringent properties, and a glutinous substance which renders it somewhat slow of solution. It is freely soluble in alcohol and in boiling water. Dose—5-20 grs. Preparations—1. Tinctura Kino. Dose—^-1 3. 2. Pulvis Kino Compositus. Contains opium in the strength of 1 in 20. Dose—5-20 grs. 3. Pulvis Catechu Compositus. Dose—10-40 grs. Kino is used in the treatment of diarrhoea, especially when the cause is situated in the lower part of the intestine. It has been tried in dysentery, but with only slight success. Powdered kino may be insufflated to check epistaxis. It is occasionally prescribed as an astringent gargle in relaxed conditions of the throat, and trochisci have been prepared for use in similar conditions. Kino, Beng'al.—Buteaj Gummi, which is the inspissated juice of the stem of Butea frondosa, is known as Bengal Kino, and is used for the same purposes as ordinary or Madras Kino {ifv.). Kinship. See Consanguinity. Kirkilissa. See Balneology {Turkey., Bulgaria). KirrhonOSiS.—A disease of the foetus in which the tissues, including the serous membranes, are stained yellow; cirrhonosis (Zurmeyer, De Morbis Foetus, Bonn, 1832). KiSSingl'en. See Balneology {Germany, Muriated Waters) ; Mineral Waters {Muriated Saline). Kjeldahl's Method.—A method of estimating the organic matter in water; the water is acidulated, is concentrated by evapora- tion, and is then submitted to a process of combustion with strong sulphuric acid ; from the amount of nitrogen in the ammonia pro- duced (estimated by Nesslerisation) the quantity of organic matter is arrived at; the nitrogen constitutes yy of the ammonia. Hunter Stewart's modification of this method makes it possible to estimate both the organic carbon and the organic nitrogen. KlebS-Loffler Bacillus. See Diph- theria {Morbid Anatomy); Micro-organisms ; Nose, Examination of {Secretion). Klein's Bacillus.—A bacillus resem- bling the b. coli communis, foimd in pneumonia epidemica ; also the streptococcus scarlatinoe. Kleptomania. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Defects of Inhibition). KlikUSChi. — An epidemic or endemic hysterical malady found amongst women in the districts of Orel and Kursk; it would seem to