LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 210 "keystone" of sound practice in midwifery. There are superficial resemblances. In both, rhythmical pains have ceased; and in both the patient and her friends may be alarmed at the delay, and clamour for speedy delivery. In tonic contraction of the uterus from obstructed labour, the patient's expression is one of anxiety ; her pulse is quick, 120 or more, and gets quicker and quicker the longer the condition lasts ; the uterus felt by the abdomen is of unchanging hardness—by the vagina, the presenting part is felt pressed down and fixed in the pelvic brim. In uterine inertia, on the contrary, the patient's expression is placid, her pulse is usually under 100, and of normal volume. By the abdomen, the outline of the child's body can be felt with unusual ease, and easily moved about. By the vagina, the presenting part of the child can easily be pressed back. In labour obstructed from excessive size of the child there is a large caput succedaneum, so that suture and fonta- nelles cannot easily be felt, and there is swelling of the vagina below the head: but not so in uterine inertia. The treatment of secondary uterine inertia is to imitate and help nature by letting the patient sleep, or if sleep come not, to procure it by chloral or opium. Give a grain of opium, or fifteen minims of laudanum, or half a drachm of chloral; and if in half an hour the patient is not asleep, repeat the dose. I place the opium first, because opium can be conveniently carried in the form of 1-grain pills, which neither evaporate nor stain the bag or pocket. When the patient awakes, uterine action will return with increased force and frequency, and the labour will usually be quickly ended. C. Premature Uterine Retraction.—This is a rare condition, first described by Litzmann, and made known to the profession in England by Matthews Duncan. In it, when the liquor amnii has escaped, pains follow one another rapidly, and the patient's manifestations of suffering make it seem that they are strong; the uterus becomes contracted round the child, and the retraction ring is drawn up. The con- dition of the uterus is like that in obstructed labour—but there is no obstruction. I have seen one case. I was sent for by Mr. T. R. Fendick to help him with a lingering breech labour. I found a patient, very nervous, and intolerant of interference, and who thought herself seven months pregnant; a uterus reaching to one-third of the distance between the umbilicus and the ensiform cartilage; a capacious pelvis ; the os uteri well dilated. I told Mr. Fendick that a little time was all that was wanted; that the child was small, the pelvis roomy, the os uteri open, and that there was therefore nothing to hinder delivery. Several hours afterwards I was again sent for. I was told that the patient had been having strong pains ever since my visit, but without advance. I found the state of things on vaginal examina- tion unaltered. I passed my hand into the uterus with ease, and felt a ring of contraction high up, several inches above the pelvic brim, encircling the child's feet and shoulders. I seized a foot and brought it down, and deliv- ered the child without difficulty in a few minutes. This condition resembles obstructed labour, except in the fact that there is no obstruction. The contractions of the upper part of the uterus instead of driving down the child, have stretched the lower segment of the uterus. Why or how this condition comes about, we know not. I have seen early in the first stage of labour very frequent and painful uterine contractions which, although recurring for a long time, produced very little effect in opening up the cervix; and I have seen these contractions made less frequent, more effective, and less painful by antipyrin—a drug which acts in like manner in painful uterine contractions during pregnancy, after delivery, and during menstruation. I conjecture that if these very frequent, painful, and ineffective uterine contractions were to go on, premature uterine retraction would be pro- duced ; but this is only a conjecture—I have not watched the one pass into the other. When premature uterine retraction has come about, the right and only treatment is to deliver, either by forceps, breech traction, or podalic version, according to the presentation. As there is no obstruction, delivery is easy. The conditions just described are those in which uterine action is weak. I now have to describe the condition which comes about when the uterus is strong, but delivery is mechanically impeded. D. Obstructed Labour.—This is the condition which comes about if the child cannot pass through the genital canal and labour is allowed to go on. The child may be unable to pass either because it is of excessive size, or be- cause the pelvis is contracted, or the child is lying in a wrong position and is too big to pass in the faulty position, though it might have passed in a right position. It is not possible to define how large a child can pass through a normal pelvis, because its passage depends not only on its own size, but on the degree of ossi- fication of its head, and on the size of the pelvis. With a pelvis of full average dimensions, and a child of not more than average size, there is abundance of room, so that if the pains are strong enough and the head soft enough to be moulded, the child can pass in almost any position. If it lies transversely, strong pains can expel it living by the process called the spon- taneous evolution of Douglas. If the face or the brow present, a soft head of an average-sized child may be so moulded that it can get through if the pains are strong enough. But children lying in unfavourable positions are often too