228 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED gap between the pubic bones, which are united only by some fibrous tissue. The ossa in- nominata are rotated about an axis parallel with the axis of the pelvic brim, so that the posterior iliac spines approach one another. This shortens the distance spanned by the ligaments which suspend the sacrum from the ossa innominata, and the sacrum is therefore allowed to slip forwards and downwards. This approach to one another of the posterior iliac spines, and sinking downwards of the sacrum, Fig. 44.—Split pelvi: reaches in extreme cases such a degree that it looks as if there was a canal behind the sacrum instead of in front of it; and this has caused the name " inverted pelvis " to be applied to it. The general shape of the pelvic canal is that of an extreme type of rickety pelvis, but with a large gap in front. It is almost always associated with extroversion of the bladder; and from the disgusting nature of this deformity pregnancy with this pelvis is rare—only seven cases have been recorded. In the management of labour with this deformity the choice is between turning and Cccsarean section, accord- ing to the size of the child and the antero- posterior measurements of the pelvis. There are two causes which may deform the pelvis—fracture of the pelvic bones, and hip disease, in which the deformity cannot be said to conform to any type. In the former, the nature of the injury and the position of the fragments during union regulate the shape of the pelvis; in the latter, it depends upon the extent of the disease, the age of the patient, and the presence or absence of dislocation. All that can be said is, that old hip disease gener- ally in some way modifies the shape of the pelvis. There are other kinds of pelvic deformity, for instance, that due to congenital dislocation of the femora, which narrow not the pelvis, and, therefore, obstruct not labour. A pelvis called the foetal or lying-down pelvis has been described; but no case of pregnancy with it has yet been known. These pelves are ob- stetrically not important, although from other points of view they may be very interesting. I shall now describe more in detail the methods of measuring the pelvis, and the ap- plication of such measurements to the manage- ment of labour. Pelvimetry The existence and degree of pelvic contrac- tion are found out during life by jyelvimetry. There are two kinds of pelvimetry, external and internal. 1. External 2)dvimetry is done with callipers, the best for the purpose being those sold under the name of Matthews Duncan's. The essential features of the instrument are that the points should be blunt, so that they hurt not the patient; that the limbs be large enough and curved enough to embrace half the pelvis; and that a measuring scale be attached so that the distance between the points can be read off without trouble. The external measurements usually (and easily) taken are three :—(1) The anterior interspinous, which is the distance between the anterior superior iliac spines. It may be measured either by putting the points of the callipers outside each bony point, or by applying the thumbs to the inner side of the spines, and by then feeling that the points of the callipers are level with the inner borders of the iliac spines. I think the latter is the more accui-ate method. The method adopted makes a difference of an inch or more in the measurement obtained, the distance between the inner borders being less than that between the outer. It averages about 10 inches, but varies from 8 to 12 inches. (2) The intercristal, or the distance between the most distant points of the iliac crests. This is obtained by putting the points of the callipers on the outside of the crests and moving them about until the greatest separation between them is reached. This measurement averages about 11 inches, but varies from 10 to 14 inches. These measurements have but little practical importance, and would not be worth making if making them caused discomfort to the patient. They show roughly the width of the pelvis, but their relation to the internal transverse measurements varies so much that no inference can be drawn unless the measure- ments differ extremely from the normal. The due proportion between the two measurements shows a normal curve of the iliac crests. An altered relation, so that the interspinous is as great as the intercristal, shows that the ilia look more forward than they should do, and that the pelvis is flattened; but no inference can be drawn from an altered proportion so slight as to need measurement for its de- tection. (3) The external conjugate, which is measured from the depression below the last lumbar spine to the most distant point on the