159 LABOUR, PHYSIOLOGY OF placental site by contraction, and retraction of the uterine wall to such a small area (4 in. x 4^-in.) Fig. 7.—Labour, second stage, showing commencing straightening of foetus. Fig. 8.—Birth of head, showing extension of fcetal ovoid. A, thinning of pelvic floor projection. that the placenta, though semi-elastic in con- sistence, is torn from its attachment. Detach- ment, as observed from a series of frozen sections of the third stage of labour, would appear to occur gradually from below upwards, and thus when completely separated the organ is expelled, doubled up in an elongated form, the entire process of separation and expulsion from the uterus being due to the same cause. Separation of the membranes from the body proper also occurs only dviring the third stage. They are partially detached in a similar manner to the placenta by diminution of their area of attachment through contraction or retraction of the uterus; by this means they are thrown into a series of wavy ridges. Their complete separation is only attained by the traction of the placenta during its expulsion. The amnion and chorion are of different elasticity, and thus form ridges independently of one another, the intervening layer being stretched and lacerated. If strong adhesions exist, therefore, between the chorion and the uterine wall, it is no uncommon thing to have the amnion expelled entire with the placenta, leaving the entire chorion in utero, a condition very apt to be overlooked when examining the secundines to ascertain their complete expulsion. The average duration of the third stage is about twenty minutes. After labour, retraction and contraction are so complete that no space exists in the uterine cavity; the uterine walls, which are \\ to Ij inches thick, are firmly apposed to one another. Occasionally a blood-clot, continuous with the thrombi in the vessels at the placental site, may be present. The post-partum uterine cavity from the external os to the fundus measures about 7J inches. Passages The passages, for convenience of description, may be divided into hard and soft—the former are represented by the bony pelvis, and the latter by the lower uterine segment, cervix, and vagina. The bony pelvis, which forms the boundaries of the hard canal through which the uterine contents pass during labour, is restricted to what is known anatomically as the true pelvis. This, from its irregular shape, is difficult to describe so as to give a clear conception of its nature. For this purpose three planes may be drawn at different levels, the dimensions of which will serve to show the varying nature of the contour of the canal: (Fig. 9) the first, at the upper level, which is known as the brim, inlet, or superior strait; the second, at the level of a line drawn from the middle of the symphysis pubis to the junction of the second and third sacral vertebrae, is known as the cavity; and the third, known as the outlet or inferior strait, from the lower border of the symphysis pubis to the tip of the coccyx. So as to estimate the irregular nature of the canal