LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS 325 acute inflammation, and amongst other traii- matic causes may be mentioned the clumsy introductions of instruments, or the accidental irritation produced when powders or paints in- tended only for the pharynx happen to fall into the glottis. It has been caused by bungling attempts to introduce the stomach-pump. It may occur in acute infectious fevers, such as influenza, measles, whooping-cough, small- pox, typhoid and scarlet fever. Apart from these specific aff"ections, acvite laryngitis is doubtless frequently of septic origin, and is occasionally infectious. Pathology.—The pathology of acute laryngitis does not differ from that of inflammation of other respiratory mucous surfaces. In the first stage there is hypereemia, with dryness from arrest of the mucous secretion. As this first stage abates there is increased flow of mucus, mixed with the cast-ofl' leucocytes. There has been a good deal of discussion as to whether actual ulceration is ever found as a result of a simple catarrhal process. The defects which are sometimes seen on the vocal cords are probably more apparent than real, and at the most are only abrasions of the epithelial surface. The opportunities of post- mortem verification are too infrequent to settle the point. The affection may limit itself more parti- cularly to one part of the larynx, receiving accordingly the name of epiglottiditis, ary- tenoiditis, chorditis, etc. Symptoms.—If the laryngitis is due to the spread of inflammation from the nose or pharynx, the symptoms will have been ushered in with those of the primary affection. The onset may be preceded by a feeling of chill or even a slight rigor, but as a rule the constitutional symptoms are slight. Generally speaking, the first symptom is discomfort in the throat, and a feeling of fulness followed by dysphonia or hoarseness. The voice may sound shriller or slightly falsetto; but it is much more usual for it to sink to a bass, while it loses its tone. Complete aphonia may occur; and the voice is generally worse in the morning. Cough is not at all a usual symptom, and if it occurs in this stage it is short, harsh, and ineffective. There is no expectoration. Talking becomes excessively painful, and often excites the action of swallowing, which adds to the patient's distress. This dysphagia is more marked on swallowing merely saliva than on the ingestion of food, and it is more apt to occur when the inflammation particularly attacks the arytenoid region. Indeed, there is often the sensation as of a foreign body in the larynx, producing a constant desire to swallow. This only ag- gravates the discomfort, and spreads the sore feeling upwards towards the ears. There is seldom any external pain or tenderness, and, indeed, the firm grasping of the larynx frequently gives a feeling of support and comfort. With these local symptoms there may be very little general disturbance; in some cases there may be slight feverishness, while in others there is considerable malaise; but there is never high fever, the appetite is never com- pletely lost, and the night's rest is rarely destroyed. At the end of twenty-four to forty-eight hours relief is generally ushered in by a freer secretion of mucus from the lining membrane, not only of the larynx, but also of the trachea, which is very commonly affected at the same time. The voice at once becomes less toneless and loses its hoarse and harsh character, the dysphagia disappears, and cough, if previously present, is no longer painful. If not present before, it is now started by the necessity of expelling the freely secreted mucus. As this is expectorated a sensation of rawness is generally referred to the front of the trachea. With the restoration of voice all feelings of malaise commence to disappear; and if the restored function of vocalisation is not abused, the 7-estitutio ad integruin is complete in a few days. When the larynx is examined with the laryngoscope in the early stage of this disease, the visible changes may appear slight and insignificant in proportion to the disturbance of voice and the general discomfort. The vocal cords themselves may show no signs of inflammation, or nothing beyond a slightly catarrhal surface. The rest of the laryngeal mucous membrane—that covering the arytenoid cartilages, the aryepiglottic folds, the ventriciilar bands, and the inter-arytenoid space—is at first duskily injected. This becomes brighter and more marked as the hoarseness increases, when the vocal cords will be seen to be injected, while their flat, ribbon-like surface becomes dull and rounded from the infiltration of the mucous membrane. Owing to the absence of submucous tissue and the consequent close adhesion of the epithelium to the subjacent tissue, the swelling and oedema, which may occur in other parts of the larynx, is very rare here. Although there may be considerable hoarseness without marked inflammation of the vocal cords, still in acute cases they may entirely lose their white appearance and become not only pink but so acutely injected as to assume exactly the same colour as the ventricular bands. In severe cases the ventricular bands and aryepiglottic folds are so congested and swollen as to more or less completely conceal the vocal cords, even on phonation. Part of the aphonia is no doubt due to the inflam- mation affecting the subjacent internal crico- arytenoid muscles, and, on phonation, the cords are seen not to approximate owing to deficiency