43 IRIS AND CILIARY BODY of the sulphate being successively instilled into the palpebral sac every hour or oftener. This treatment is likely, if anything will, to break down the adhesions, leaving perhaps some pigment upon the lens capsule. Dots of pigment seen in front of the lens are always indicative of previous iritis. If the adhesions have become organised, the atropine will not break them down, but it will prevent the forma- tion of others. When once the pupil has been well dilated, the amount and frequency of atropine administered should be diminished; a solution of 0"25 per cent should now be nsed three times a day. The use of atropine occasionally gives rise to atropine irritation, or even atropine poisoning. The former consists of irritable conjunctivitis, and of swelling and erythema of the eyelids and cheek. When this arises the atropine must be stopped at once, and some other mydriatic carefully substituted. For this purpose a ^2 per cent solution of sulphate of duboisine, or a 5 per cent solution of hyoscyamine, or a 0'2 per cent solution of scopolamine (formerly known as hyoscine) may be used. Care should also be taken to compress the lachrymal sac with the fingers for a minute or two after the instillation, so as to prevent the fluid from passing down to the nose and pharynx. At7-opine poisoning is recognised by heat and dryness of the mouth and throat, diificulty in swallowing, thirst, and loss of appetite. The face becomes hot and flushed, the pulse is quickened, and the patient may liave con- vulsions, or hallucinations, or be delirious. The pupil of the other eye will be dilated. The atropine must be stopped at once, strong coiiee administered, together with a hypodermic in- jection of a quarter of a grain of morphia or half a grain of pilocarpin. Besides atropinism there are other contra- indications for the use of atropine and other mydriatics. In cases of irido-cyclitis not only is the tension somewhat raised, but the instilla- tion of atropine is sometimes followed by increased pain, photophobia, and lachrymation. In these cases the atropine solution must be either very weak or replaced by a weak solution of physostigmin. (2) Of the symptoms that must be relieved the chief is pain. Heat, in the form of boracic or belladonna fomentations, is often a great com- fort to the patient; dry heat is sometimes more effective than moist. Some patients prefer cold to heat; this may be applied in the form of iced compresses, or by means of a modifica- tion of Leiter's tubes Cocaine may be com- bined with the atropine ; it acts as a sedative, a mydriatic, and a vaso-constrictor. Several leeches applied to the temple close to the outer margin of the orbit often relieve pain and congestion. Each leech will remove rather more than a drachm of blood. Bleeding may be encouraged for an hour after the leeches have dropped off by means of fomentations. Should there be any difficulty in stopping the haemorrhage, the leech-bite must be touched with lunar caustic and a dossil of lint tightly bandaged over the bites. It is often seen that after the application of leeches the pupil responds better to atropine. An important aid in the relief of pain, when other methods have failed, is the operation of paracentesis of the anterior chamber. It is never attended by bad results, and its value should not be overlooked, especially when the aqueous humour is turbid or contains puro- lymph. Several measures are important in order that the patient may be placed under the most favourable conditions for a speedy recovery. At the outset a sharp mercurial purge should be given, and throughout the disease a daily action of the bowels must be obtained. If the inflammation is severe, he should be kept in bed in a darkened room, a large double shade or dark goggles being worn. In debilitated subjects tonics will be required, and a light but nutritious diet should be ordered, with alcohol only in strict modei'ation. In obstinate cases the use of hot air baths causing copious sweating is often very helpful. (3) The constitutional treatment will vary with the etiology. (ffl) Syphilitic Iritis.—It is extremely impor- tant that the patient be rapidly got under the influence of mercury, but l)efore this is done certain precautions must be taken. It is im- portant that the mouth should be in a healthy condition. Stumps should he removed, carious teeth filled or extracted, and tartar scraped away. While the drug is being taken the mouth must be kept scrupulously clean. The condition of the kidneys must be ascertained by a careful examination of the urine. During the treatment the patient must be urged to take plenty of good, nourishing food, but the amount of alcohol must be small. Chills must be guarded against, and flannel should be worn next the skin. Mercury may be administered by inunction, inhalation, injection, or by the mouth. Method of Inunction.—This, perhaps the best method, is performed by rubbing into the skin on the iimer side of the arm or thigh, thirty to sixty grains of the blue ointment, the skin being first carefully cleansed. The ointment must be rubbed in for about ten minutes every night just before going to bed, when the patient should be well covered with blankets to pro- duce sweating. Each morning a warm bath may be taken to remove the drug for the day, or a woollen vest may be worn over the same. This treatment should be continued for about six weeks, care being taken to watch against salivation, and after an interval of about three