LARYNX, NEUROSES OF 368 Neuritis, either rheumatic, alcoholic, syphilitic; or due to typhoid fever, lead, arsenic, phosphorus, or other toxic causes. 4. Inflammatory Infiltration of the Muscles. Further, paralysis of the larynx may be simulated by mechanical fixation of the crico- arytenoid joint. It will be observed that paralysis or paresis of the laryngeal muscle may be due to lesions in any portion of the motor nerve tract from the cortex to the termination of the nerve fibres in the muscles; but numerous as are the possible causes, the particular variety of paralysis that must result in the different pathological conditions may be often determined by simply bearing in mind the facts to which attention has been drawn in the introductory remarks on p. 362. It will be seen that— (a) Lesions of the cerebral cortex or internal capsule producing paralysis must involve the centres of both cerebral hemispheres, and are, therefore, almost invariably functional diseases, such as hysteria, or weakness from exhausting diseases, anaemia, etc. But we have seen that the laryngeal function of respiration (abduction of the vocal cords) is mainly represented in the bulb, whereas the phonatory function is represented mainly in the cerebral cortex; therefore cortical lesions only result in adductor paralysis or paresis of the vocal cords during phonation. Thus we find that hysterical or other functional paresis of the vocal cords involves the adductors only ; moreover, as the bulbar centres are still active, the purely reflex act of coughing is attended with normal adduction of the cords. Thus the cough of a hysterical patient is a phonetic cough. (6) Lesions of the bulbar nuclei involve both the postici or the abductor muscles (respiratory), and also, though later in all progressive lesions, the adductors of the cords. The diseases which are liable to be attended with nuclear degenera- tion in the bulb are tabes dorsalis, bulbar para- lysis, general paralysis, syringomyelia, syphilis, diphtheria, etc. In these progressive nuclear degenerations the muscles are involved in a definite sequence, according to Semon's law ; and therefore the larnygeal paralysis involves first the postici (abductors), then the thyro-ary- tenoidei interni, and finally the adductors, with consequent complete paralysis of one or both vocal cords. The bulbar lesion, and, therefore, the vocal cord paralysis, may be unilateral or bilateral, but it will be gradual in onset. But in bulbar lesions, once the adductors are involved, the paralysis is complete on both sides ; there is no phonetic cough. (c) Of peripheral nerve-trunk lesions a basal meningitis is likel}' to involve both sides. Out- side the skull, a goitre or a malignant growth of the oesophagus arc the only lesions likely to involve both motor nerves. The most common cause of peripheral nerve paralysis of the lai-ynx is aneurysm of the aortic arch, which by gradual pressure on the left recurrent nerve causes a progressive paralysis of the left vocal cord. Here again the vocal cord muscles are involved in the sequence laid down by Semon's law. Peripheral neuritis involving one or both recurrent nerves may result in enteric fever, pneumonia, diphtheria, rheumatism, alcoholism, etc. {d) Paralysis due to direct involvement of the muscle fibres or of the nerve-endings in the muscle, the so-called myopathic paralyses, are the result of local inflammatory changes, and as any individual muscles may be implicated, according to the seat of inflammation, there is no definite sequence in the order of paralysis. The most common form of myopathic paralysis is that due to laryngitis, with paralysis or paresis of the internal tensors of the cords, or of the arytenoideus; or one or both adductors may be involved. Any local inflammatory affection, such as tuberculosis, syphilis, perichondritis, may implicate particular muscles. Treatment.—Inasmuch as the great majority of cases of laryngeal paralysis are the result of pathological conditions in other regions, the treatment of the paralysis very often resolves itself into therapeutic measures directed solely toward these outlying causes, and therefore outside the scope of this article. But there are two groups of laryngeal palsies for which local treatment is desirable, viz., functional palsy, and palsy due to local in- flammatory infiltration or to peripheral neuritis. Functional adductor paralysis in hysterical or ansemic patients is an indication for general hygienic measures, and the administration of nervine tonic, iron, etc. In most cases it is possible to maintain an immediate and lasting cure of the aphonia by intralaryngeal faradisa- tion with a strong current. For this purpose one pole of the battery is connected with the episternal notch externally, and a special intra- laryngeal electrode is passed into the larynx under the guidance of the laryngoscopic mirror, and the circuit completed. With a fairly strong current the resulting spasm of the larynx and the pain produced cause the patient to utter an exclamation, and on withdrawing the laryn- geal electrode the voice is usually found to have been restored. Sometimes the aphonia recurs at short intervals for a time; but after the restoration of the voice by the intralaryngeal faradisation on two or three occasions, the cure is generally permanent. In laryngeal palsy due to diphtheria or other forms of neuritis, or in the more persistent forms of paralysis following catarrhal affections, the intralaryngeal faradic current is often of great service, but in these cases a single application