LABOUR, INJURIES DURING 268 haemorrhage may be arrested by digital pres- sure, or by a probe or piece of stick covered with gauze. A hot vaginal injection at 120° F. will induce thrombosis, and will encourage con- traction of the viterine and arterial muscle, and will thus usually arrest ordinary hfemorrhage. If the haemorrhage persist, or the tear is found to be of such a nature and extent that im- mediate suturing is needed, the patient should be ansesthetised and placed on her back with the knees drawn up, and kept in position by a Clover's crutch. The uterus may be depressed from outside, and the anterior and posterior lips drawn down by Teale's volsellum forceps, which have blunt teeth and never tear. The cervix can thus be made to protrude at the vulva. Swab out the vagina and cervix with wool soaked in corrosive sublimate solution, 1 in 2000, and douche the uterus itself with 1 in 4000. If the bleeding vessel is seen, seize it with Spencer Wells' forceps, and tie with fine silk. Then take a rectangular (Fig. 58) or half-curved Pig. 58. needle set in a handle and pass it deeply at the apex of the rent from without inwards, through both lips of the cervix, so as to include some of the cellular tissue of the base of the broad ligament and the branch of the uterine artery. Silk-worm gut is the best suture to use. Three or four sutures may be required for each tear, and may either be cut short, or left sufficiently long to protrude from the vulva. Septic ab- sorption should be prevented by antiseptic douches, whether the tear be sutured or not. If the broad ligament is opened up and haemor- rhage is not persisting, some would prefer to pack the tear with iodoform gauze; but direct suturing is the better plan if this be practicable. Secondary operation is rarely required (trache- lorrhaphe) unless subinvolution, with marked hypertrophy, adenoma, or ectropion of the lips is present. The secondary operation has been very much overdone. 3. Laceration of the Vagina.—Causation. —Tearing may be due to stretching of the upper end of the vagina, where obstruction is lower down than the pelvic brim, or where the foetus is hydrocephalic, or where there is im- paction of a transverse or some complex pre- sentation. With a pendulous abdomen the posterior vaginal wall is greatly stretched, and may give way. Laceration [may also be caused by forcible extraction by forceps or version. Herman states that vaginal laceration from the use of forceps may occur in five ways, viz. : owing to the forceps themselves adding to the bulk of the passenger; or to the blades not lying quite flat and the edges projecting; or owing to the curve of the forceps not coinciding with the cephalic curve; or because the normal rotation of the head in the pelvis cannot always be exactly imitated by the accoucheur with the forceps ; and because the dilatation of the vagina is necessarily more rapid and less natural than when the natural forces are alone acting. Matthews Duncan taught that 12 per cent of primiparte had vaginal laceration; and, of course, the more elderly the primipara the greater will be the rigidity of the parts. Vaginal rents may be secondary to uterine or cervical lacerations. Fo&itioii of Laceration.—The lacerations are usually oblique or transverse, and as a rule are posterior or lateral, corresponding to the posi- tion of the child's face. When secondary to a cervical tear, the injury is usually lateral and obliquely longitudinal; when secondary to rupture of the uterus, it is usually posterior and oblique. Douglas's pouch may be opened, or the bladder may be torn. I have also seen a deep longitudinal tear on both sides of the floor of the vagina, exposing the sides of the rectum. Evidences of Vaginal Rup- ture. — Uncomplicated vaginal lacerations are rarely recognised, for shock is absent. Htemor- rhage may, however, show that something more than the ordinary slight abrasions and lacera- tions has occurred, and digital examination will then reveal the accident. Dangers.—Apart from haemorrhage, there is the increased risk of septicaemia from the larger areas for septic absorption, and there is a further risk of prolapse of the vaginal walls, with cys- tocele or rectocele, and possibly uterine prolapse as a secondary phenomenon. Treatment.—If the foetus has escaped into the peritoneal cavity, which, though very rare, has been known to occur in uncomplicated vaginal tears, abdominal section will be required to extract the foetus ; but it would be impossible to suture the A^agina from that side. As a rule, however, the foetus is either already born, or can be extracted jt^er vaginam. If the placenta is in Douglas's pouch, it may usually be extracted without difficulty or increased injury. If the rent is small, antiseptic douches are all that is ordinarily required, the rents speedily closing by granulations. If the rent is large and near the outlet, antiseptic gauze drainage (see Rup- ture of Uterus, p. 266) is good treatment, unless it is possible to accurately unite the torn