319 LARDACEOUS DEGENERATION that the amyloid disease will spontaneously disappear, the degenerative product being ab- sorbed, and the cells of the organ resuming their activity. That such recovery may occur in animals has been proved by an experiment of Lubarsch, who produced the condition artifi- cially, and demonstrated the presence of amyloid in an excised portion of spleen. The animal was then allowed to recover from the suppura- tion which had caused the condition, and when it was subsequently killed all trace of amyloid substance had disappeared. In renal cases, un- complicated by nephritis, the outlook is best in those due to syphilis, and in cases in which there is not very much enlargement of liver and spleen. In patients with pulmonary tuber- culosis, the onset of amyloid disease is always an ominous sign. If the cause cannot be removed, no definite limit of time can be fixed for the duration of life. The condition may last from one to ten years, according to circumstances. In cases of continued suppuration, it is unlikely that the patient will survive more than two years from the appearance of marked symptoms of amyloid change. Treatment. — It seems probable that no therapeutic measures avail to act directly on the amyloid deposit. Efforts should therefore be directed to removing the cause of the degenera- tion and improving the general health of the patient. Cases due to suppuration should be submitted to rigorous surgical treatment, foci of infection being as far as possible removed by operation; sequestra should be sought and extracted, cavities scraped out, and the freest possible drainage provided. In obstinate cases of empyema, resection of portions of ribs may be necessary to allow the cavity to close per- manently. By such means astonishingly good results may at times be attained. The patient should be placed in the most favourable circum- stances possible; fresh air is essential, that of a bracing seaside climate being the best of all. The digestive organs must be kept in good order, and plenty of nourishing food provided. In cases with much nephritis it may be ad- visable to exercise some caution with regard to the amount of meat allowed, and some care is necessary in selecting a suitable climate. Such cases derive most benefit from residence in a mild winter climate. The most liberal diet that can be digested is generally permissible. Cod- liver oil, either alone or combined with one of the preparations of malt, is of service; and tonics, such as iron and quinine, are useful adjuvants. In syphilitic cases the general treatment may be the same, but iodide of potassium must be given in sufficient doses, rising to thirty grains three times a day for adults. The treatment must be continued at intervals for several (two to five) years. Very good results are often obtainable in these cases, even when the syphilitic infection is of old standing. Mercury is not of much service, and must be given cautiously in cases presenting signs of renal disturbance. If the cause cannot be removed or directly treated, as is the case in phthisical patients, it remains only to relieve symptoms. Dropsy may be treated on ordinary lines by rest in bed and diuretic medicine, especially digitalis. Iron is also useful in such cases, the iodide being a useful salt to employ. Diarrhoea is little amen- able to any treatment, and is a warning of approaching death. Opium or morphia may be tried, combined, if necessary, with sulphuric acid or with sulphate of copper. Astringents, such as catechu or krameria, may occasionally appear to afford temporary benefit. LcLfg^in.—A compound of silver and pro- talbin, used, like pi'otargol, in gonorrhosa and gastro-intestinal ulcers (dose, 5 to 8 grs.); it contains 11 per cent of silver, and has a bacteri- cidal action. See Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Ophthalmia Neonatorum, Treatment). Lsirva..—An insect in the grub stage, or the immature form of an animal which reaches its mature form by a process of metamorphosis ; various larvte are the causes of myiasis. See Malaria (Mosquitoes); Myiasis ; Nose, Foreign Bodies, etc. (Parasites of the Nose). Larval or Larvated. —A masked, latent, or incompletely developed condition, e.g. a disease, such as scarlet fever or epilepsy in a masked form; also used of a skin disease which covers the face as with a mask. Larva Migrans.—Dermamyiasis line- aris migrans oestrosa. See Creeping Eruption. Laryng^eal Crises. See Tabes Dor- SALis (Symptomatology, Affections of Vago- Accessorius). Laryngfealinjections. &eBronchi, Bronchiectasis (Treatment, Intra-laryngeal In- jections). Laryng^eal Obstruction. See Diphtheria (Diagnosis); Larynx, Congenital Laryngeal Stridor. Laryng'eal Paralysis. See Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm of (Symptoms, Laryngeal Paralysis); Larynx, Neuroses op (Paralysis of the Vocal Cords); Typhoid Fever (Complications and Secpiela;, Paralysis of Vocal Cords). Laryng^eai PiltllisiS. See Larynx, Chronic Infective Diseases (Phthisis). Laryng^eal Spasm. See Asthma, Larynx, Laryngismus Stridulus. Laryng'ectomy.—Excision or extirpa- tion of the larynx. See Larynx, Malignant Disease (Treatment, Operative).