232 LABOUK, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED measurement impracticable in ordinary practice. We are therefore obliged to be content with deducting from the diagonal conjugate the average difference between it and the true conjugate, which is a little more than half an inch, and thus inferring the true conjugate. It may seem as if we ought not to be content with so rough an approximation ; but it must be borne in mind that the measurements themselves are only approximations, the points between which we have to measure and the measuring instruments (the fingers) are so indeterminate that it is im- possible to get nearer than within about a quarter of an inch—that is to say, that different com- petent observers measuring the same patient, or a competent observer measuring the same patient on different occasions, will get results differing by at least a quarter of an inch from one another. The accoucheur ought not in advising his patient to depend upon one kind of measurement alone. If consulted during pregnancy, he should take the external measurements and the diagonal conjugate; then judge of the size of the child by palpating the belly, measuring its girth, and the height of the uterus above the symphysis pubis; and, finally, estimate the relative size of the child and pelvis by trying how far he can press the head of the child down into the pelvis. After delivery, for sure guidance in future labours, he should accixrately measure the true conjugate by Johnson's method, and check the result obtained by examination of the child's head. He should note any dints, grooves, over- riding of sutures, red stripes on the skin, or other evidence of compression, and measure the diameter of the head where pressure has evi- dently been operative. From the information so obtainM he will be able to advise the patient with precision as to the mechanical difficulties to be anticipated in subsequent labours, and as to the best mode of delivery. Midwifery can only be regarded as a branch of medical science, whence its practice is governed by a knowledge of the size and shape of the pelvis, the size of the child, especially of its head, and the move- ments which it ought to make in order to pass easily through the pelvis. Practice without this knowledge is not science, but rule of thumb. The treatment of difficult labour by persons who have not this knowledge is simply to lay hold of the child with instruments or hand, and pull till either the child comes out or the operator is exhausted. In the latter event he probably sends for assistance ; and the person whose aid is sought finds a patient irreparably damaged, and so ill that an operation by which she might have been safely delivered early in labour, has become attended with extreme danger. The Treatment of Labour with Contracted Pelvis Take first the most extreme pelvis with a true conjugate of not more than 2 inches. Here there is no doubt as to the proper treatment. Csesarean section is the only mode of delivery. It is true that in the past, when Csesarean section was terribly dangerous, expert handlers of the cranioclast, vertebral hook, crotchet, and scissors have broken up and extracted a child through a pelvis with a conjugate a trifle less than 2 inches; but such operations are long and difficult, and entail a risk to the mother as great as that now attached to Csesarean section. There is no longer occasion for such operations. Deformity of the pelvis so great as this is, is usually accompanied with visible deformities of other bones; and therefore it is possible that the possessor of such a pelvis may suspect that her pelvis is misshapen, and be wise enough to consult her doctor before she marries, before she becomes pregnant, or in the early months of pregnancy. The suggestion may then be made that the necessity for Ca^sarean section may be averted by the early induction of abortion. But multiple pregnancies ending in abortion cannot be gone through without a little risk, not to speak of the deterioration of the patient's comfort and happiness by the repeated necessity for fruitless operations. Ceesarean section, followed by sterilisation, seems to me preferable. It may also be sug- gested that the necessity for either abortions or Csesarean sections may be avoided by the use of precautions to prevent pregnancy, such as are commonly employed in another country with a decreasing population. But these precautions are nasty; they often fail, and their prolonged use tends in many women to injure the nervous system, as is illustrated by the complex forms of hysteria common in the country to which I have referred, but happily rarer in England. But further, every woman with a healthy mind is fond of children. Even if she before pregnancy desired not a child, she will love and value it when she has got it. If treatment gives the patient a strong and healthy living child, it gives her the greatest treasure she can have. A patient may be so fond of children that she will be willing more than once to incur the risk of Csesarean section, and if so, her wish ought not to be opposed. I think a patient cannot reasonably be expected against her wish to incur repeatedly a risk so much greater than that of natural delivery, and that therefore if the patient wishes that after Csesarean section further pregnancy should be made impossible, it is proper to comply with this request. Take next a pelvis having a conjugate diameter of more than 2 inches, hut less than 2| inches, and without appreciable shortening of the transverse diameters. Here delivery by cephalotripsy, done by a skilful operator, in a patient not exhausted by protracted labour, and