31 INVALID FEEDING Dinner Puree of lettuce or spinach. Turbot and tartar sauce. (See infra.) Roast chicken and water-cress. Blanc-mange. (See p. 16, using saccharine instead of sugar.) Tarragon creams. Stewed Cucumber and Cheese Sauce.—Cut a fresh cucumber in pieces about 4 inches long. Boil until tender. Pour over the cucumber, when cooked, the following cheese sauce. Make the sauce in the same way as sauce Hollandaise (p. 29), omitting the tarragon vinegar, and add three table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese before serving. Tartar Sauce 2 table-spoonfuls of Mayonnaise sauce. 1 tea-spoonful chopped parsley. A small piece of very finely chopped shallot. 1 tea-spoonful of mustard. Mix these ingredients well together and gently heat. Tarragon Creams 2 eggs. \ pint cream. Pepper and salt. 2 tea-spoonfuls chopped tarragon. Put into a basin one white and yolks of two eggs, the cream, and a little white pepper and salt. Beat up with a fork until smooth, add a little chopped tarragon. Butter some little moulds, sprinkle the top with chopped tarragon and trufHes. Pour in the mixture, and stand the moulds in a stewpan of boiling water reaching to three- quarters height of the moulds. When the water boils, draw the pan to the side of the stove and poach for about twenty minutes till the creams are set. Turn out on a warm dish, and serve with sauce Hollandaise round them. Sixth Day Breakfast Tea, coffee, with cream. Cutlets of egg, ham, or crab. Camp pie. Gluten and bran bread. Butter. Marmalade. Lunch Fish roe souffles. Smoked tongue and salad. Cheese, with almond biscuits. , , , Dinner Cock-a-leekie. Whitebait. Lemon sliced. Brown bread and butter. Roast lamb. Mint sauce. Asparagus. Gooseberry fool. Hot caviare on toast. Gluten bread. Fish Roe Souffles.—Take six roes of fresh herrings ; blanch and pound them, then flavour with salt, pepper, pounded mace, and nutmeg. Add half ounce butter and yolks of two eggs beaten well together. Whisk the whites of six eggs into a stiff froth ; mix the same with the roes, and bake in ramequin cups for about five minutes. Serve immediately the souffles are removed from the oven. Meat and Hot Water, or '■^Salisbury" Diet Great care and consideration are called for, both as to the recommendation of this diet and the best means of giving effect to it. The writer recently saw a patient who came com- plaining of intense weakness and loss of flesh consequent on a course of treatment, lasting nine weeks, carried on "by correspondence." The patient had been instructed to take a moderate amount of exercise, including golf, and was greatly surprised to find that not only was exercise impossible, but at times she had hardly strength to stand. Very special precautions are always necessary in stout subjects. The value of the treatment is undoubted in some cases of indigestion and chronic auto- intoxication associated with it. Further refer- ence is made to it in other articles {vide " Gout," "Indigestion," "Obesity," "Sprue"). Meats and Beef Juices.—At first the patient begins with lean meat or beef in mince or cakes. However, if the patient is unable to assimilate solid food, Carnick's liquid peptonoids, peptonised home-made beef teas and essences, Valentine's, Wyeth's beef juice, Bovril, Vimbos, Brand's beef juice or meat jelly, may be used instead. Gradually the patient begins to take lean mutton cakes and the white meat of chicken. The white of an egg raw, lightly boiled, or poached, is also allowed. The following directions will be useful in the preparation of the muscle cakes :— Lea7i Meat Cakes.—The beef should be used from well-grown animals, and steaks cut from the centre of the round are the best for this purpose. The beef pulps can be prepared in the following manner :—All the fat, fascia, and connective tissue and bone are removed, and the meat is placed on a Ijoard or in a chopping tray, and is shredded down with a blunt knife; the pulp is then scraped together with a spoon, the result is that all the tough fibrinous parts remain behind. The scraped pulp is lightly moulded by the hand into cakes from half to one inch thick, and slowly broiled over a clear fire free from smoke. When cooked, serve on a hot plate with a little butter, and season to taste with pepper and salt. The flavouring may be varied by using Worcestershire or Halford sauce, mustard and horse radish, or lemon juice. A small quantity of celery is also permissible. Drinks.—The patient is usually advised to