227 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED pushes the top of the sacrum backwards. This tends to narrow from before backwards the canal of the sacrum. The pushing of the sacrum back separates the posterior superior iliac spines (see Fig. 43). There is extreme lordosis of the lumbar spine, so that the front edge of the bodies of the vertebra are farther apart than they ought to be, while the neural arches are pressed together. This pressure may lead to bony outgrowths, ossification of the ligaments, and, finally, synostosis. The inclina- FiG. 43.—Early stage of spondylolisthesis. (After Targett, tion of the pelvis to the horizon is diminished. This throws increased strain on the ilio-femoral ligaments; the pull of these ligaments rotates each OS innominatum about an antero-posterior axis, so that the upper part of the bone is turned outwards, the lower inwards. Hence, as in the kyphotic pelvis, the transverse diameter at the brim is widened, that at the outlet narrowed. The changes described above are seen in different degrees in different pelves. The ossific defect may be on one side only, and then the vertebra will slip down on that side more, and the deformity produced will be asymmetrical. But the disease is so rare that it is not worth while to dilate upon the differences in degree and in symmetry. In the diagnosis of spondylolisthesis investiga- tion has to be made along three lines. First, the history. This will be of some violence or strain, leading to a long illness, attended with pain in the lower part of the back, and severe enough to keep the patient in bed. The usual date of this illness is from the fifteenth to the eighteenth year. Second, the shape of the body. The patient is short, and this is seen to be due to shortening of the lumbar spine. The distance between the ribs and the pelvis is diminished; the ribs may even be sunk into the false pelvis. This makes conspicuous the distance between the wings of the ilia. The posterior superior iliac spines are farther apart than usual. The back of the sacrum is plainly felt. From the less inclination of the pelvis the ex- ternal genitals look more forward and less downwards than usual. The patient walks with short steps, and with the feet slightly inverted, so that the marks made by the feet are wanting in breadth. Third, vaginal examination. The displaced lumbar ver- tebra is felt narrowing the brim. It is distinguished from the projecting promon- tory of a rickety pelvis by the fact that at its sides nothing like the lateral masses of the sacrum can be felt; and also that by external examination the sacrum can be felt not to be displaced. A distinct angle between the displaced vertebra and the sacrum cannot be felt, because this angle is filled up with new bone. As in the kyphotic pelvis, the distance between the ischial tuberosities is lessened, and the tip of the coccyx extends farther forwards than usual. When caries of the last lumbar vertebra and top of the sacrum has been present, the angular curvature produced leads to the lumbar vertebrae overhanging the brim of the pelvis somewhat as the last lumbar vertebra does in spondylolisthesis. This deformity is called spondylizema. This and spondylolisthesis have been classed together under the common name of the pelvis ohtecta. The treatment of labour with spondylolis- thesis depends upon the length of the obstetrical conjugate. It is possible that cases may be met with in which deformity is so slight that delivery can be effected by forceps or turning; but in most—in all which deserve the term pelvis obtecta—Cfesarean section is the proper treatment. The Split Pelvis. — In this deformity the symphysis pubis is absent. The two halves of the pelvis not being bound together in front, the upward and outward pressure of the femora forces them widely apart, so that there is a wide