LEPROSY 390 patients to throw off the results of tuberculosis, so the same measures should be used to support the patient while undergoing the effects of the leprous poison. Lepers should have frequent baths, should be well clothed to promote the cutaneous circulation, and should be made to spend a considerable time in the open air. This should be combined with the systematic administration of an abundance of highly nutritious food. Of the many drugs that have been tried in leprosy it is certain that many of them are of no value. Dr. Dougall's treatment by gurjun oil was tried in Norway, but without the good results described by him. On the other hand. Dr. Hillis considered that gurjun oil greatly relieved the symptoms of the disease. Dr. Dougall recommended the oil to be given internally, 15 grains night and morning, and made into an emulsion with lime water; patients rubbing the whole body for two hours forenoon and afternoon with a mixture of 1 part of oil to 3 parts of the lime water. Every morning they rubbed themselves with dry earth and took a bath to remove the oil. Dr. Dougall states that in India this yielded good results. Chaulmoogra oil has also been recommended in India. It is given internally in half-drachm doses—best in capsules—and applied externally in a mixture of 1 part to 16 parts of olive oil. This is rubbed into the skin, and a bath taken some hours afterwards. A trial which was made in Norway did not give encouraging results. Carbolic acid, creasote, phosphorus, arsenic, and ichthyol were found by Dr. Danielssen in Norway to be inefficacious. Mercury was found by Dr. Danielssen to make the patient worse rather than better; but recently Dr. Radcliffe Crocker believes that he has found benefit from subcutaneous injections with the perchloride. Iodide of potassium has a peculiar effect, producing in lepers new eruptions of nodules or patches. Dr. Danielssen, therefore, used it as a test of the cure of a patient. If after iodide no new eruption appeared, the cure was considered complete. Dr. Unna has recommended an application of a plaster consisting of chrysarobin, salicylic acid, and creasote, which certainly produced favourable results for a time. Dr. Unna has also recommended a 10 per cent ointment of pyrogallic acid and lanoline, and the writer can testify to the good results of this treatment in early nerve leprosy. Amelioration is said to have been effected by the administration of salol. Danielssen considered salicylate of soda as very useful in the treatment of leprosy; he found that under its use the fever was lessened, the period of eruption shortened, and that newly-formed nodules disappeared. It did not affect old nodules. There is no uniformity in the testimony as to the action of drugs in the treatment of leprosy, and in the cured cases it is probable tliat the cure takes place spontaneously. There is no doubt, however, that drugs are very useful in alleviating symptoms. Hansen and Looft call attention to the benefit derived from surgical treatment, section of the cornea being practised in the case of tubers growing into it, the cicatrix of the section barring the way to the further penetra- tion of the growth. Iridectomy is often per- formed when the pupil has been obliterated by adhesions of the iris or by exudation. Tracheotomy is necessary when the larynx is occluded by leprous growths or by cicatrices. Necrotomies should always be performed when there is necrosis of the bones of the hands and feet. The wounds heal well in the anaesthetic parts, and the patients are spared from long- standing suppuration by the removal of the necrosed bones. If leprosy is little amenable to treatment, preventive measures have produced most favour- able results. If every leper is looked upon as a source of possible infection, and sufficient means are taken to prevent healthy persons being contaminated by discharges from his body, it is beyond doubt that the disease will diminish, and that it is capable, under favour- able circumstances, of being exterminated. Unclean habits and overcrowding favour the development of leprosy where lepers exist, whereas personal cleanliness and a separate room, or, at least, a separate bed, leads to diminution of the number of cases. In the clean surroundings in North America the Norwegian lepers have ceased to propagate the disease; and in Norway itself, since isolation has been instituted, the number of lepers has diminished from 2833 in 1856 to 321 in 1895. If the same precautions that are now considered essential in the case of a tubercular and syphilitic person are practised with lepers, new cases would soon cease to occur. In regard to isolation, the International Congress on Leprosy at Berlin, 1897, accepted the following resolution:—"In all countries in which there are centres of leprosy, or in which the disease extends, isolation is the best means of preventing its propagation. "Compulsory notification, inspection, and isolation, as they are practised in Norway, are recommended to all nations in which there are autonomous municipalities, and in which there are a sufficient number of medical men. It should be left to the administrative authoritiea to determine, on the advice of the sanitary committees, measures in detail, having regard to the social conditions of each country." LeptismuS.—Emaciation (Gr, Xe-n-rvvo), to grow lean, to make thin).