527 LOUVRES Louvres.—In the ventilation of rooms with windows, fixed or movable louvres of glass may be placed in the panes of the upper sash so as to allow the air to enter. LoWCOCk'S Filter.—A bacteriological filter consisting of sand and gravel, fitted with air-pipes, used in the disposal of sewage. Lower Extremity. See Deformities (Loiver Extremity); Fractures (^Special, Lower Extremities). Lower Ja.W. See Mouth, Diseases and Injuries of the Jaw {Mandible). Lower, Tubercle of.—A small pro- jection on the wall of the right auricle of the heart between the openings of the superior and inferior vense cavse. Lower Uterine Segrnent. See Labour, Physiology of [Factors of Labour, Primary Powers); Labour, Injuries to the Generative Organs {Rupture of Ute7-us); Preg- nancy, HEMORRHAGE (Placenta Prcevia or Unavoidable Hmmorrhage). Low Fever. See Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of the (" Low " Fever). Lozeng'es.—Solid medicinal preparations made of gum acacia and various flavouring substances (black-currant paste, rose water, or tincture of tolu), containing a drug such as tannic acid, benzoic acid, etc.; they melt slowly in the mouth when sucked. See Prescribing. Lubarsch's Crystals. — Peculiar crystals found in the epithelial cells of the testicle after death. Lucan. See Balneology {Great Britain, Ireland). Lucas' Sigfn.—Distension of the abdo- men in rickets. Lucca. ^See Balneology (/ta^y); Mineral Waters {Calcareous). Lucid interval.—A temporary return to mental health seen in certain cases of insanity and delirium. Lucifer IVlatch-Makingr. See Trades, Dangerous {Phosphorus Poisoning). Lucilia Hominivora. See Nose, Foreign Bodies {Parasites of the Nose). Lucilia Macellaria. — The screw worm, an insect whose larvse may be found in nose, vagina, and in wounds. See Myiasis ; Nose, Foreign Bodies {Parasites); etc. Lucina.—The goddess (Juno or Diana) who, in the Roman Mythology, presided over childbirth; Jloreat Lucina is a toast sometimes given at convivial meetings where obstetricians are in the majority. Lud wig's Angina. See Angina LuDovici ; Neck, Region of {Injiammatory Affections) ; Pharynx, Acute Pharyngitis ; Suppuration {Angina Ludovici) ; Tongue. Ludwig-Salkowski's Method.— A quantitative test for uric acid and its salts. See Uric Acid. Ludwig'S Theory.—A theory of the mechanism of renal secretion. See Kidney, Physiology of {Mechanism of Renal Secretioii). Lueck's Reaction.—A test for hip- puric acid, depending upon the intense odour of nitro-benzol. Lues.—A plague, pestilence, or epidemic, now used in a more restricted sense and usually with a qualifying adjective ; thus lues venerea or lues celtica is syphilis, lues congenita is congenital syphilis, hies divina is epilepsy, and lues inguin- aria or lues pestifera is the plague. Lugano. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Italian LaJces). Lumbago. Introductory. ..... 527 Anatomical and Physiological . . 527 Clinical 528 Therapeutic . . . . . .529 See also Abdominal Aneurysm {Diagnosis, Differential); Gout {Irregular Gout, Muscular and Connective Tissues); Hydropathy {Rheuma- tism and Gout). Lumbago is usually regarded as a manifestation of rheumatism or gout. It is, however, too much the practice to pronounce as rheumatic or gouty any chronic pain of which the nature is obscure or to which no other specific character is assigned. So loosely is the term applied, that it is more than probable that a variety of ailments, with no character in common save that of pain, have been classed under it, and much both of false experience and faulty practice has resulted there- by. However difficult it may be to classify the different conditions which may induce lumbago, it is probably better to leave their place in classi- fication unassigned, than, by ranging them under a definite head of rheumatism, to beget confusion where clearness and precision are essential both for diagnosis and treatment. It is advisable to refer briefly to some anatomical and physiological facts which must ever be kept in the foreground as constituting the central point in the line of investigation. Anatomy and Physiology.—We are here deal- ing with the most dependent part of the trunk —that part of the body mainly concerned with the maintenance of the upright posture. For