LIVER, DISEASES OF 475 may soften down, and may present as a fluctu- ating swelling either anteriorly or by perforat- ing through the intercostal spaces laterally or posteriorly. Prognosis.—When adequately treated with iodides the prognosis of syphilitic disease of the liver is much better than in most of the con- ditions that have been referred to as sometimes resembling it, viz., malignant disease, cirrhosis, perihepatitis, and chronic peritonitis. Gummata undergo absorption, and the bad effects due to their mechanical pressure are relieved; but cicatrices are left behind, and if they compress the portal vein or bile ducts the symptoms will remain practically unaffected. Antisyphilitic treatment does not affect them, so it is not fair to assume that the failure of iodides proves the condition to be non-syphilitic. The prognosis of hepatic enlargement or tumour due to syphilis is thus much brighter than that of ascites or jaundice thought to depend on some other factor. Treatment.—Iodides should be given in com- bination with mercury. Iodide of potassium should be combined with iodide of sodium, and with an ammonium salt such as spiritus ammonise aromaticus, so as to prevent the depressing effect of the potash. To begin with, a dose containing 10 grains of the combined iodides should be given three times daily, and should be increased so that in a fortnight's time 30 grains are taken for a dose. The medicine should be taken shortly before meals ; if taken on a full stomach, dyspepsia may result from liberation of iodine by the action of the hydro- chloric acid of the gastric juice. Mei'cury may be given in the form of hy- drargyri c. creta combined with compound ipecacuanha powder to prevent diarrhoea. In cases where gummata develop rapidly and early after infection, the subcutaneous or, better, intramuscular injection of soluble mercurial salts, such as the benzoate, should be employed. The Surgical Treatment of Gummata. — In cases where a softened gumma of the liver has begun to work its way out through the abdominal wall, incision and removal of some of the caseous debris has had a good result in diminishing septic absorption. In other cases in which ex- ploratory laparotomy revealed a hepatic gumma partial removal has seemed to accelerate the subsequent action of iodides. It is. not likely to be employed except in the event of a gumma simulating an abscess, or where the diagnosis has been at fault. Hereditary Syphilis The changes in the liver that depend on hereditary syphilis may conveniently be con- sidered under three heads :— (i.) The lesions met with in the livers of babies, manifesting the other ordinary evidences of hereditary syphilis. (ii.) Tardive or delayed hereditary syphilis. (iii.) Multilobular cirrhosis supervening in children, the subjects of hereditary syphilitic infection. The first of these categories is the most im- portant, and refers to the lesions ordinarily known as the liver of congenital syphilis. The Ordinary Hepatic Manifestations of Con- genital Syphilis.—The liver is found to be affected in a very large proportion of the fatal cases of hereditary syphilis ; this contrasts with acquired syphilis, where the liver frequently escapes. The frequency with which the liver is affected in hereditary syphilis is an argument in favour of the view that antenatal infection of the foetus is maternal, and that the infection passes through the placenta and umbilical vein, thus damaging the liver on its way to the foetus. If the ovum was primarily infected by a syphil- ised spermatozoon the ovum would probably not survive; and further, if it did, the syphilitic toxin would reach the liver, as it does in acquired infection by the hepatic artery, and should there- fore only be affected in the same proportion as in acquired syphilis. Morbid Anatomy.—The appearances vary very considerably. In slight cases the organ may show little change except some pallor. In other cases its colour may be brown, yellowish, or violet, and may in advanced cases look like flint. To livers of this type Gubler applied the term "/oie silex." The organ is enlarged and heavier than normally, weighing ^^th. to j^th instead of ^\th of the normal body-weight at birth. Evidence of past perihepatitis in adhesions to the dia- phragm are sometimes seen, but usually the surface is smooth, though there may be irregu- larities and projections due to the changes being more advanced in certain areas of the liver. On section the liver tissue is firm and tough, and appears marbled or mottled from the pres- ence of pale, whitish-yellow areas, where there is increased fibrosis, with congestion around them. The lobular markings are obscured or lost, and the appearances may suggest lardaceous disease or diffuse sarcoma. As a rule the changes are diffuse, and thus contrast with the circumscribed lesions of tertiary acquired syphilis ; but exceptionally the change may be so localised as to imitate a tumour. On carefully looking at the cut section, small millet-seed nodules resembling tubercules are often detected. These are minute syphilomata, composed of granulation tissue, and have been spoken of as miliary gummata, though the term gumma is better reserved for the further stage where central necrosis and caseation have super- vened. In rare instances well-marked gummata, com- parable to those met with in acquired syphilis, are found in the liver of infants, or even in still- born foetuses.