LIVER, DISEASES OF 481 masses can be made out in the course of the colon. A renal tumour may appear to be in connec- tion with the liver, but a bimanual examination should be sufficient to show that it bulges into the loin, while the presence of bowel in front of the tumour points to its renal origin. Inflammatory thickening around the gall- bladder is often palpable as a hard mass, and thus may give rise to physical signs resembling carcinoma. The history of gall-stones, and the fact that the patient's general state is not so grave as in carcinoma, are important points to bear in mind. The diagnosis of primary from secondary malignant disease of the liver is very difficult, inasmuch as, in perhaps as many as 50 per cent of those cases of secondary malignant disease of the liver that give rise to symptoms, the exist- ence of a primary growth elsewhere cannot be satisfactorily determined during life. When there is evidence of a growth in situations such as the stomach, colon, or pancreas, the malig- nant disease in the liver is evidently secondary. But when the only clinical evidence is of growth in the liver, it is very difficult to come to a satisfactory conclusion as to whether it is prim- ary or secondary. Multiple growths, and the association of jaundice and ascites, are rather in favour of secondary malignant disease, while rapid growth of the liver without marked emaciation points to a primary growth. Deep jaundice is in favour of secondary growths. Malignant disease of the gall-bladder is usually preceded by biliary colic, and shows itself as a tumour in the region of the gall-bladder. The prognosis is, of course, absolutely hopeless, except in those very rare instances where the tumour has been completely removed by the surgeon. Treatment.—In a few exceptional instances a primary malignant tumour of the liver has been removed. In most cases, however, this is im- practicable from the extent of the tumour and the frequency with which secondary growths are found in other parts of the liver. Apart from this the treatment is merely palliative, and consists in relieving symptoms as they arise. Vomiting should be met by ice, bismuth, dilute hydrocyanic acid, etc. ; dyspepsia by carminatives, ascites by paracen- tesis, and pain by the hypodermic injection of morphia. A milk diet is most suitable, tea and coffee may be given, and stimulants are usually necessary. Secondary Malignant Disease of the Liver Etiology 481 Morbid Anatomy 481 Site of Primary Growth . . .481 Carcinoma . . . . .481 Sarcoma ...... 482 VOL. V Clinical Features and Course . . 482 Diagnosis (vide Diagnosis of " Primary Malignant Disease") . . . . 483 Treatment . . . . . .483 Frequency.—The liver is the organ most fre- quently affected by secondary malignant disease. Thus it is involved in half the total cases of malignant disease, and in 3 per cent of all bodies examined after death (Hale White). In a large number of the cases collected for statistical pur- poses secondary growths in the liver have given rise to no sign during life. It appears that malignant disease is becoming more frequent, especially in the abdomen. Sex.—Secondary malignant disease is rather commoner in women, from the frequency of malignant disease in the breast and internal organs of generation, than in men. Age.—It usually occurs after forty years of age. Site of Primary Growth.—The primary growth is latent in a large number, perhaps in half of the cases presenting evidence of secondary malignant disease of the liver during life. The stomach and colon are most frequently sites of the primary growth, but fatal cases of carcinoma of the breast are very frequently found to have secondary growths in the liver. Other situa- tions in which the primary growth may occur are the pancreas, gall-bladder, oesophagus, uterus, kidney, and uveal tract. Secondary growths are usually carcinomatous ; sarcoma is comparatively infrequent. This is probably due to the fact that it only rarely occurs primarily within the area drained by the portal vein. Secondary melanotic sarcoma of the liver is a striking but rather uncommon form of growth; it is much more marked after melanotic sarcoma of the uveal tract than of the skin. Morbid Anatomy. — Secondary growths are usually multiple and nodular, but sometimes, e.g. when secondary to carcinoma of the mamma or to sarcoma of the uveal tract, there may be diffuse infiltration of the organ. The two forms may be found in the different parts of the same liver. The growths are frequently found on the surface of the liver, and are rarely present inside when absent externally. Carcinomatous growths are white, yellow, bile-stained, or streaked with blood, and when of some standing become cupped or umbilicated. This depends partly on cicatricial contraction taking place in the older portions, and in part on the more exuberant growth of the peripheral and more recent portions. The nodules on the surface of the liver may set up perihepatitis and adhesions to adjacent parts, while exceptionally the growth may grow directly into the diaphragm or abdominal parietes. The growths may soften down, and occasion- 31