LEONTIASIS OSSEA 382 develops, and neuralgic pains, facial paralysis, blindness, and involvement of other special senses, occur in the course of time owing to compression of the various nerves. The death of the patient has iisually been due to cere- bral pressure, marasmus, or some intercurrent affection. Diagnosis.—Bony deformity of the skull is the most important sign. The localised form in its early stages might easily be mistaken for syphilis or sarcoma, and in one instance an ossifying myxoma of the nasal septum was recorded as leontiasis ossea. Diffuse hyper- ostosis has to be distinguished from acromegaly, myxoedema, and osteitis deformans (Sternberg). Treatment is applicable only when prominent bony masses can be removed, or when surgical means may be expected to yield relief from the effects of pressure on peripheral nerves. Lepa.ntO. See Balneology {Greece). Lepcophtheirus.—A variety of fish- lice. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Poisonous Fish). Leper. See Leprosy, LepidO-. — In compound words lepido- (Gr. AeTTts, a husk or scale) signifies relating to a scale, e.g. lepidosarcoma (a fleshy tumour covered with scales), lepidoid (scaly), lepidosis (ichthyosis), lepothrix (a disease of the hairs of the axilla or scrotum which are ensheathed in sebaceous matter), and leposteophyton (a thin scale of bone). Le Pits,.—Tinea imbricata or Bowditch Island ringworm. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Caused by Vegetable Parasites). Lepra,. See Leprosy ; Psoriasis {Syno- nyms). LeprelCOSiS.—The ulceration of leprosy. LeprolOgy.—The study of the pathology, symptoms, and treatment of leprosy {q.v.). Leprosy. Geographical, etc. .... 382 Clinical Features— Lepra Tuberosa .... 383 Lepra Maculo-Ana^sthetica . . 385 Pathology— Lepra Tuberosa . . . .387 Lepra Maculo-Ancesthetica . . 388 Etiology ...... 388 Diagnosis 389 Treatment ...... 389 See also Ainhum {Etiology) • Alopecia (Varie- ties) ; Balneology {Historical) ; Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Exanthematous Conjunctivitis) ; Cornea {Striated Keratitis); Larynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Leprosy); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {General Etiology); Nose, Chronic Infective Diseases {Leprosy) ; Osteo- arthropathies {Mode of Production) ; Ovaries, Diseases of {Leprosy) ; Palate {Diseases, Leprosy); Pharynx, Chronic Infective Dis- eases {Leprosy); Post-mortem Methods {Bacterio- logical Investigations, Leprous Nodtdes); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Leprosy of Testis); Skin, Bacteriology of the {Leprosy, Bacillus Leprce) ; Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Con- stitutional Infective Diseases with marked Shin Lesions); Syringomyelia {Morvan's Disease and Leprosy). There is evidence to show that leprosy existed in Egypt and India in times of great antiquity. In an old papyrus, which was transcribed in the fifteenth century B.C., reference is made to the remedies for the cure of a severe disease named " uchetu" which caused pain, deformity, and often death. The Coptic name for leprosy, "ouseht," is considered identical with "uchetu," and is the Coptic word in the Pentateuch for leprosy. As this papyrus professes to be a copy of a much older one, it carries the evidence of the existence of leprosy in Egypt to a very remote antiquity, possibly to 4000 years B.C. The evidence of the existence of leprosy in India in remote periods is of a more definite character, the vernacular terms for leprosy in India now being practically the same word as that used in the ancient Sanskrit. In the Sans- krit writings allusion is made to leprosy in the fourteenth century B.C., and very definitely in the sixth century B.C. Probability points to Africa as the original site of the disease, from whence it may have spread to India through Arabia. It existed in China two thousand years ago. There is evidence to show that the disease found its way to Greece through Asia Minor in the fourth century B.C., and it has been suggested that the spread of leprosy in south-eastern Europe is associated with the hosts led by Xerxes from Asia to Europe. There is no doubt that at these times leprosy was not accurately separated from other severe cutaneous diseases, and the leprosy of the Bible undoubtedly included other skin affections as well as leprosy. The first good account of the symptoms of the disease was given by Aretseus in the first century of our era, whose account for accuracy and fulness leaves little to be desired. Lucretius stated that leprosy was confined to the valley of the Nile, and Celsus at the beginning of the Christian era remarks that it was almost unknown in Italy. Pliny the elder relates that the disease was brought from Egypt and Asia Minor in the time of the first emperors, and that it was unknown until the return of Pompey's soldiers from the East— JSgypti peculiare hoc malum est. Leprosy soon spread through Europe. Ac-