JOINTS, DISEASES OF 66 possible, because their features are so very similar, and in the secondary infections it is usual for the joint disease to so overshadow the bone lesion from which it originates that the latter element may be only recognised on operating, or on post-mortem examination. The clinical features vary with the gravity of the infection. They may assume the form of an acute serous synovitis which may recover, or become chronic, or may relapse after apparent cure. The relapsing or intermittent synovitis or hydrops, which closely resembles that of gonorrhoeal or tuberculous origin, has been shown to depend in certain cases on staphylo- coccal disease of one of the adjacent bones, so that treatment of the latter is essential for permanent recovery. In a certain number of cases the clinical features of pyogenic infection are remarkably latent, especially when it occurs in the course of some general illness, such as scarlet or other fever. It has been known to escape notice until the occurrence of some striking develop- ment, such as dislocation in the case of the hip-joint, or the occurrence at a later period of ankylosis. Ill the graver infections the suppurative element is more prominent; the effusion into the joint is purulent; there is general illness, often ushered in with a rigor. The local signs and symptoms are those of an acute arthritis, in which all the joint structures participate, and which, if left to itself, may result in disorganisation. The synovial membrane is converted into granulation tissue; the liga- ments and inter-articular cartilages share a similar fate. The articular cartilages, which are at first dulled and macerated, undergo fibrillation and necrosis, and separate in visible fragments. The subjacent bone which is thus exposed becomes the seat of inflamma- tion and granulation, so that it disintegrates, the so-called articular caries. These changes in the articular surfaces add materially to the gravity of the lesion and to the suffering of the patient. The joint is held rigid by the in- voluntary contractions of muscles. The least attempt at movement causes severe pain. The slightest jar, even the shaking of the bed, may cause agony. Sleep is impossible, or is dis- turbed with "starting pains." The distension of the joint and fluctuation may be evident, or may be obscured by oedema of the overlying soft parts. Sometimes the entire limb is swollen and edematous. In untreated cases the joint is usually allowed to become flexed. At the knee the angle of flexion may be so acute that the heel touches the buttock. The pus in the joint may perforate the capsule and spread in the surrounding tissues up and down the limb ; sooner or later it ruptures on the surface and discharges externally through one or more sinuses. The final disorganisation of the joint with destruction of the ligaments, may be indicated by abnormal mobility, by grating of the articular surfaces, or by dislocation. In the acute arthritis of infants the epiphysis may be separated and displaced. The progress of the local disease is associated with aggravation of the general symptoms, and the patient is exhausted with suffering and poisoned with toxines. In the course of ^jyce?rtm joints may become distended with pus without any pronounced changes in the joint structures, without local signs except those indicating the presence of fluid, and without much complaint on the part of the patient. When the joint is the seat of a direct infection through an external wound, either accidental or operative, the condition is commonly spoken of as a septic arthritis. Its morbid anatomy and clinical features are similar to those described when the infection has been carried to the joint by the blood stream, but the lesion is- usually more severe and destructive, and is more likely to persist and to result in osseous ankylosis. The terminations vary with the gravity of the infection and with the stage at which it comes under surgical treatment. In the milder forms recovery is the rule, with more or less complete restoration of function. In the more severe forms, and especially when several joints are involved, death may result at an early stage from general pyogenic infection or toxaemia, or at a later period with symptoms of hectic fever, waxy degeneration, and exhaustion. If the patient recovers, the joint or the entire limb may be permanently damaged. There may be fibrous or bony ankylosis, and this may be in a good or in a "bad position. There may be deformity from displacement or dislocation. From changes in the periarticular structures there may be contraction of the limb in the flexed or other undesirable position, and in the case of young subjects there may be interference with the future growth of the limb. The per- sistence of sinuses is usually associated with disease in one or other of the bones belonging to the joint. The diagnosis, while easy and straightforward in the graver suppurative forms, may be difficult in the milder varieties, for these may resemble very closely the serous effusions in syphilis, gonorrhoea, and tuberculosis, or that caused by injury where there is no question of infection. The treatment is governed by the same principles as guide us in the treatment of other pyogenic infections. The limb is immobilised and elevated. The altitude preferred will be that in which, should stifl"ness occur, there will be least interference with function. Extension by means of the weight and pulley may relieve symptoms and counteract any tendency to flexion.