LABOUR, OPERATIONS—EMBRYOTOMY 294 the jagged edges of the bone are covered with the scalp, keeping the fingers of his left hand in contact with the head whilst he pulls with the right hand. (3) He will make traction during the pains, and make sure that the uterus is following and aids in the progress of the foetus. (4) He will pull in the proper axes of the different parturient planes. (5) He must be prepared in some cases to lessen the bulk of the trunk, as by cleidotomy. (6) He should in all cases make careful examination of the maternal canals after the labour is over to see if there be any spicula of bone left or any laceration that may need repair. It goes without saying that the whole procedure must be conducted on aseptic principles, and that after such an opera- tion it will be desirable to wash out the uterine cavity with an antiseptic douche, or at least with hot sterilised water. B. In Trunk Presentations Indications. — There are a few cases of narrow pelvis where, after the head has been crushed, the thorax fails to enter the brim, and it becomes necessary to lessen the trunk also. But it is usually in cases of transverse presenta- tion that the necessity arises for breaking up the trunk. A shoulder is presenting, possibly the arm has fallen to the vulva; the waters have all escaped; the uterus is closing firmly round the foetus, which becomes impacted at the brim and cannot be driven through ; the lower uterine segment, the cervix, and the vaginal roof are all becoming stretched and thinned, and in danger of rupture. The child is very likely already dead or dying, so that there is no hope of rescuing it by turning, which would now be dangerous to the mother. Her only chance lies in delivery by embryotomy. Procedures.—There are different procedures that the practitioner may adopt in seeking to effect a diminution in the size of the passenger. Some have begun by removing the arm, cutting it off at the shoulder-joint, or better, passing a finger or hook or forceps through the wound in the axilla and bringing away the scapula, and perhaps the clavicle, along with the prolapsed extremity. Such mutilation, however, is usually futile. It does not reduce the bulk sufficiently to make version safe or to allow of the expulsion of the infant; and the operator has deprived himself of the safest medium for traction on the trunk if he removes the arm and then finds that he has to eviscerate the cavities or break through the spinal column. Cleidotomy (division of the clavicle), which allows of some degree of collapse of the upper part of the trunk, and may facilitate extraction through a pelvis that has required head comminution, is of little or no avail in transverse presentations. I. Evisceration. — Delivery has often been effected by opening the thorax and abdomen with some variety of perforator and disembowel- ling the foetus with the forceps or fingers. This Evisceration or Exenteration, as it has sometimes been called, does not usually secure sufficient diminution of the bulk of the infant to allow of its extraction. It only lessens the soft structures and leaves untouched the spinal column, the resistance of which constitutes the great difficulty to the passage of the trunk. II. Decapitation.—If the spinal column can be severed in the cervical region by Decapitation of the foetus, the difficulty is overcome. Different methods have been adopted for separating the head from the trunk. (1) The neck has been divided from below upwards with knives or scissors, a method dangerous both to the maternal tissues and the fingers of the operator. (2) Ramsbotham's sharp hook carried round the neck was at one time the approved implement for cutting through from above. But its cutting edge on the concavity of the hook was also not free from danger to mother or operator. (3) The chain or wire of an ecraseur has been used, but the obstetrician may have difficulty in getting the chain or the wire adapted to the neck. (4) Pajot had a special hook constructed for carrying a loop of whip-cord or strong twine round the neck. A stout copper wire bent double can be curved so as to go round the neck, and as it is withdrawn it can carry back the cord which is to be vised for sawing through the neck. (5) Braun's decapitator, which is a long blunt hook like a boot-hook, is the simplest and safest of all the decapitating implements. The curve of the hook is small, so that it is relatively easy of application ; a half twist usually suffices to break the vertebral column, and an addi- tional twist or two tears through the soft parts as well. Delivery by this method implies, first, the Decapitation itself; second. Extraction of the Trunk (this will usually be brought about by pulling on the protruded arm); third. Birth of the detached Head. This may be effected by pressing upon the uterus from above; but some- times the head requires to be laid hold of with forceps, or some kind of hook, or to be per- forated and extracted with a cranioclast or basilyst. III. Spondylotomy oif SjMndylolysis.—In some cases the neck is not accessible. The trunk of the foetus has got jammed into the pelvis with the head above the brim, so that decapitation is impossible. In such cases Sir J. Y. Simpson proposed the use of the Spondylotome for cut- ting through the spinal column in its most accessible part, usually in the dorsal region. The spondylotome is a pair of strong scissors, one blade of which is sharp-pointed for perfor- ating the thorax, whilst the other probe-pointed blade is passed outside over the vertebral column, so as to cut through the spine. A pair of bone- pliers may be used for the purpose. When the vertebral column has been thus divided the