129 KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF them is of great importance in the treatment of the disease in question. 1. Tuberculous Affections of the Knee General Facts . , . . .129 Pathological Anatomy . . . .129 Clinical Types— 1. Hydrops. . . . . . 130 2. Papillary or Nodular Tubercle of the Synovial Membrane . . .130 3. Gold Abscess or Empyevm . .131 4. Diffuse Disease of Synovial Mem- brane— Synovial fungus. White swelling 131 5. Primary Disease in the Bones . . 131 The Formation of Abscess . . .132 Diagnosis . . . . . .132 Prognosis 133 Treatment— Conservative . . . . .134 Operative. . . . . .135 Indications for . . . .135 Arthrectomy . . . .136 Excision . . . . .136 Amputation . . . .137 Treatment of Deformities following Disease of Knee . . . .137 In patients of all ages affected with tuber- culous disease of bones and joints the knee-joint is the second most frequent seat of disease. While especially common in childhood and youth, it may be met with at any period of life, and is not uncommon even in patients over fifty or sixty years of age. It is less serious to life than the same disease in the spine, pelvis, or hip, chiefly because it is much more amenable to treatment. Pathological Anatomy.—The frequency with which the disease originates in the synovial membrane and in the bones would appear to be about equal (351 synovial to 281 osseous, Konig). When the synovial membrane is the seat of disease it exhibits a marked tendency to grow inwards over the articular surfaces ; in the case of the femur this usually takes place from the lateral margins of the condyles at the level of the lower margin of the patella, often shutting off the suprapatellar pouch and resulting in fixation of the knee-cap. In the case of the tibia and of the patella, the ingrowth takes place from the margins towards the centre, diminishing the area of their articular surfaces. The ingrowth of the synovial membrane may come to fill up the entire cavity of the joint or may divide it up into compartments, e.g. one above the patella, and two below in relation to each femoral condyle, and may succeed in shutting off a focus in the bone which would otherwise have erupted into the joint. In addition to the tuberculous thickening of the synovial membrane, the thickening and gelatin- ous transformation of the parasynovial tissues, VOL. V and especially of the fat around the joint, contribute in an important degree to that form of the disease which is known clinically as "white swelling." The destructive changes in the synovial membrane and in the articular cartilages, which result from the tuberculous infection, are similar to those met with in other joints. It is important to bear in mind that, when the infection is arrested and the newly-formed granulation tissue is converted into fibrous tissue, this is often attended with alterations in the joint of a more or less permanent character. The suprapatellar pouch is often obliterated, the patella may be more or less fixed on the condyles of the femur ; the tibio-femoral articu- lar surfaces may be fused together by fibrous tissue or by bone, and the joint may be an- kylosed in the position in which it was main- tained during the disease. In relation to the question of relapse, it is important that the reparative process may be limited to one or other portion of the joint, e.g. one condylar area; while the disease may remain latent or may progress in other parts, and that by the formation of new fibrous tissue a focus in the bone may be shut off or encapsulated. The rarer forms of synovial disease will be described under the clinical features. The nature and seat of the hone lesions are subject to the same wide variations as in other joints. Kbnig gives the following figures as to their relative frequency in the different bones: in 281 cases the patella was affected in 33, the femur in 97, the tibia in 107, and several bones in 48. Small, frequently multiple, granulation foci may be found beneath the articular cartilage of the tibia, or along the lateral margins of the femoral condyles, especially the internal. Caseating foci are less often met with; they may, however, attain a considerable size, so as to merit the description of a caseous abscess, especially in the interior of the head of the tibia. Foci of the sclerosed variety, resulting in sequestra, are comparatively common ; the most characteristic examples are met with in the substance of one or other condyle of the femur, and when they abut on the articular surface they present the peculiar eburnation. Extensive caseation (tuberculous osteomyelitis) of the marrow of an entire epiphysis is exceptional, but when present may extend into the adjacent diaphysis. Primary foci in the patella may erupt externally; more often they give rise to disease in the knee-joint. In young children the frequency of severe bone lesions, such as sequestra, is considerably above the average ; they are more often located in the femur than in the tibia, but instead, as in the adult, of infecting the joint, they com- monly erupt extra-articularly, e.g. into the pop- liteal space or on the lateral aspects of the condyles. 9