69 JOINTS, DISEASES OF solution of protargol. The purulent form is to be treated on general principles. After all symptoms have settled down, but not till then, for fear of exciting relapse or metastasis, the joint may be massaged and exercised; stiffness from adhesions is most in- tractable, and may, in spite of every attention, terminate in ankylosis; the latter is to be dealt with on general principles. Tuberculous Diseases of Joints General Facts . . . . .69 Pathological Anatomy— Relative Frequency of Synovial and Osseous Disease . . . .69 Joint Lesions from Disease in adjacent Bone ...... 69 Tuberculous Lesions of Synovial Mem- brane ...... 70 Changes in Articular Cartilages . 70 Caries of Articular Surfaces . . 70 Caries Sicca . . . . .70 Pathological Dislocation ... 70 Contents of Tubeixulous JoiiUs . . 71 Periarticular Abscesses and Sinuses . 71 Reactive Changes in Vicinity of Tuberculous Joints . . .71 Terminations and Sequelce . . 71 Relative Frequency in different Joints 71 Clinical Features . . . .72 Of Tuberculous Joint Disease in general . . . . .72 Of certain Clinical Types— Hydrops . . . . .74 Empyema. .... 74 White Swelling. . . .74 Arthritis ..... 74 Caries Sicca . . . .75 The General Health . . . .75 Causes of Death .... 75 Diagnosis . . . . .75 Prognosis . . . . .75 Treatment— Conservative . . . .75 Operative . . . . .78 Tuberculous diseases result from bacillary infection of the synovial membrane, or of the marrow of one or other of the adjacent bones. The infection occurs under similar conditions to those which have been already described in Diseases of Bone {vide vol. i.). The tuberculous lesions of joints, although having a common origin in infection with the tubercle bacillus, differ widely in their ana- tomical and clinical features. From the anatomical point of view they may be divided into those in which the disease origi-nates in the synovial membrane and those which originate in disease of one or other of the adjacent bones. The relative frequency of these two types has been variously estimated. The sources of dis- agreement are to be found in the difficulty in distinguishing them from one another, and in the fact that only the more serious and more advanced forms of the disease are subjected to operation ; the milder forms of primary disease in the synovial membrane so commonly recover without operation that they do not figure in the records upon which the estimate of the relative frequency is based. It is probable that the frequency of primary disease in the bone has been exaggerated; Krause, for example, esti- mates the proportion observed in Volkmann's clinique as 23 per cent of synovial origin to 77 per cent originating in the bones. The relative frequency varies with the age of the patient and with the joint affected; in children, the number of cases originating in the bones is approximately that given by Krause; on the other hand, primary disease in the synovial membrane is relatively more frequent in adults. The predominance of bone lesions in childhood and youth is to be ascribed to the conditions associated with the growth of the skeleton, especially at the ends of the long bones. As regards the joint affected, the maximum frequency of osseous lesions is found in the hip (26 synovial to 129 osseous, Krause); the pro- portion is about equal in the case of the knee (266 synovial to 281 osseous, Konig), and probably also in the case of the elbow, wrist, shoulder, and ankle. We may preface the consideration of the morbid anatomy of tuberculous joint diseases by referring, in the first place, to the non-specific lesions met with in joints when tuberculous disease is present irt the interior of one or other of the adjacent bones. They are comparatively common and are often misunderstood in practice. They re- semble those which result from staphylococcal disease in the adjacent bone (q.v.). When a tuberculous focus, especially a large one with caseation and a sequestrum, is seated near the articular cartilage or the attachment of the capsular ligament, it gives rise to reactive changes in the adjacent joint, characterised by exudation and by the prolongation of the synovial membrane over the articular surfaces. Adhesions may result, which may obliterate the cavity of the joint, or divide the cavity into different compartments. These phenomena are best observed in the knee. They are analogous to the changes in the pleura in disease of the subjacent lung and in the peritoneum in disease of the abdominal viscera. They are of import- ance because they interfere with the functions of the joint; and in the event of rupture at a later period of the osseous focus into the joint, they may limit the articular infection to a small area, and may altogether prevent the development of the graver forms of tuberculous joint disease. The infection of the joint from disease in the