261 LABOUK, POST-PARTUM H^MOHRHAGE The above s the line of treatment which the writer considers is most suitable in cases of atonic post-partum hsemorrhage. It is, of course, im- possible to follow a regular stereotyped plan in all cases ; special cases call for special variations in the treatment, and in some instances it may be necessary to resort immediately to the plug owing to the condition of the patient. However, in the great majority of cases in which the accoucheur has been in attendance from the commencement of the heemorrhage, it will be possible to follow a system such as the above, and so save the patient from the risk of intra- uterine manipulations in all but the most serious cases. There are two proceedings which are very frequently recommended that have not been mentioned. They are of use in some cases, and if they will not finally check the haemorrhage they will at all events gain a little time. The first of these is compression of the aorta. It is comparatively easy—unless the patient is very stout or strains very hard—to compress the aorta through the abdominal wall against the lumbar portion of the spinal column. It is a proceeding which is of use, if we have an assist- ant capable of performing it, while preparations are being made for intra-uterine treatment. The second proceeding is the bimanual compression of the uterus, not as recommended above with the object of expressing clots, but rather with the object of preventing further haemorrhage by compressing the bleeding vessels. It is carried out as follows:—Pass the right hand into the vagina and place two fingers behind the cervix in the posterior fornix. With these fingers press the cervix forwards in such a manner as to fold it beneath the body of the uterus ; then com- press the latter as firmly as possible between the vaginal hand and the left hand upon the abdominal wall. This is also only of use in order to gain time, as it will rarely if ever arrest the haemorrhage finally ; as such, however, it may sometimes be found of use. There are a few methods of treatment which the author would like to warn against. Such are the intra-uterine injection of vinegar, the freedom of which from bacteria can never be assumed; the application of ice or the pouring of cold water on the patient's abdomen, a practice which is sufficient to determine the death of a collapsed patient by increasing the collapse ; the introduction of ice into the uterus, both on account of the risk of sepsis and of the shock it causes ; the injection of ergot before the placenta has left the uterus, unless we are prepared to remove it immediately ; and the plugging of the uterine cavity with any material which is not absolutely sterile. Prognosis. —- The prognosis of post-partum haemorrhage is always good if the case is taken in time. A woman can lose an amount of blood immediately after delivery without being very much aff'ected, which at another time would bring her to the point of death. Concealed Post-partum Haemorrhage.—Con- cealed post-partum haemorrhage is the term applied to post-partum haemorrhage when the escaped blood is stored up in the uterus instead of pouring out through the vulva. It is to a large extent an artificial condition, that is to say, it is caused by the attendant compressing the lower uterine segment instead of the fundus, and so placing an obstruction in the way of the escape of the blood. It may also occur behind a detached placenta which is blocking the lower uterine segment, if the fundus is not properly controlled. If it occurs, it is recognised by the increase in size of the uterus. Its treatment consists in immediately removing the obstruction to the escape of blood and then emptying the uterus by expression. If the haemorrhage still continues, the further treatment of the case is the same as that of the more usual form of post- partum haemorrhage. II. Secondary Post-partum HyEMORRHAGs Secondary post-partum haemorrhage is the term applied to bleeding coming on more than six hours after the completion of labour. It is also known as puerperal or late haemorrhage. Frequency. — At the Rotunda Hospital, in which patients remain for eight days after their confinement, 13 cases of secondary haemorrhage occurred in 13,549 confinements—a proportion of 1 in 1042-23. ^Etioloyy. — Secondary post-partum haemor- rhage may arise in three ways:— (1) Owing to the separation of the thrombi in the mouths of the uterine blood-vessels. This may occur owing to some sudden increase in the blood-pressure, or to the sloughing of the coats of a vessel as a result of a previous long-con- tinued pressure. (2) Owing to a congested condition of the en- dometrium. The commonest cause of congestion of the endometrium during the puerperium is a relaxed condition of the uterus. This condition, which is known as subinvolution, may be caused by the retention of pieces of placenta or mem- brane, malpositions of the uterus, faecal accumu- lations, or getting up too soon. (3) Owing to the presence of tumours, either pre-existing or arising subsequent to delivery. Amongst pre-existing tumours, myomata of the body of the uterus are the commonest. The only tumour which is likely to form subsequent to delivery is that known as deciduoma malignum {vide article " Puerperium "). Treatment.—If the haemorrhage is slight, the administration of ergot in full doses, the expres- sion of all clots from the uterus, and absolute rest in bed, may be sufficient to check it. If it does not respond to this treatment, or if it is severe from the start, the vagina and uterus should be douched out with hot creolin lotion.