169 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM Persistent Mento-posterior Mechan- isms ....... 181 First Face Position . . . .181 Second Face Position . . .182 Third Face Position. . . .182 Fourth Face Position . . .182 Brow Presentations . . . .183 Diagnosis and Mechanism in Podalic Lies ....... 185 Diagnosis and Mechanism in Transverse Lies 187 Spo7itaneous Deliver^/ . . .188 Diagnosis of Normal Labour In describing the various relations which the foetus and its parts may assume to the pelvis of the mother and to one another, the following terms will be used, viz., lie, position, presenta- tion, and attitude. By the lie is meant the relation of the long axis of the child to that of the mother. The foetus may lie with its long axis approximately in that of the mother, in which case the lie is a longitudinal one; or the child may lie across the mother's trunk, and is then said to be a transverse lie. In the case of a longitudinal lie the head may be directed downwards, cephalic lie; or the breech may be downwards, podalic lie. The term positio7i means the relation a given part of the foetus—the one taken is usually on the posterior aspect—has to the anterior, lateral, or posterior aspect of the mother. In the case of the head presenting by the vertex, the posterior end (occiput) may be directed to the front, occipito-anterior; to the side, head transverse ; or to the back of the mother, occipito-posterior; or to some other point on the circumference of the pelvic ring. The word " orientation" is frequently used by French authors to express this meaning, and is, in fact, a more exact and unambiguous expression of it. Presentation is a term which has been used in a very loose way by various authors. It really means that part of the foetus which is first touched by the finger of the person making a vaginal examination. If the child is in a cephalic lie it may present by the vertex, or by the face, or by a surface of the head intermediate between these areas. Also, in a podalic lie the feet or the breech may be the presenting part. Tyler Smith defines the presentation as that part of the child which is " felt most prominently within the circle of the OS uteri, the vagina, and the ostium vaginse, in the successive stages of labour." The relations which the trunk, the head, and the limbs of the child have to one another constitute the attitude of the foetus. This is considered quite independently of any relation of the foetus to the maternal parts. The usual attitude is one of flexion—the head is flexed on the trunk, the thighs are flexed on the abdomen, and the legs on the thighs. Or the head may be in a state of extension, as in face presentations; or the legs may be extended on the thighs, as in certain kinds of breech presentation. Physical Examination In endeavouring to determine the relations of the child to its mother's pelvis in order that the course of labour may be intelligently watched, and any assistance, in cases where it is necessary, given to the greatest advantage, the most satis- factory results will be obtained by pursuing a routine course of examination in every instance. The following plan should be adopted, and the sections taken in the order given :— Abdominal examination— Inspection. Palpation. Auscultation. Vaginal examination. Bimanual examination. Other points also, such as the shape of the bag of membranes, the escape of meconium from the cervix, and any peculiarities in the way the liquor amnii comes away after rupture of the membranes, are to be observed, since they may assist in the diagnosis. Abdominal Examination.—For this purpose the woman must lie on her back in as comfort- FlG. 15.—Graphic representation of parts felt on alidoniinal pal- pation in tlie case of cephalic lie (first vertex position). able a posture as possible, with the abdomen thoroughly exposed to view. The bladder must be empty, a catheter having been used if necessary, and the bowels should have been well cleared out.