FEEDING 3 INVALID Soup-making aims at extracting as much as possible, and therefore begins in the cold, never being above about 160° F. These various processes will now be referred to in some detail. A. When the Meat Juices are Retained Roasting.—In this method of cookery the meat is cooked by the radiant heat of a fire from a large glowing surface free from smoke. The meat is exposed to this heat, within a few inches, for five to ten minutes, and is basted with melted dripping, the surface albumin being coagulated to the thickness of a sixpence. After this has taken place the meat is removed ^ to 1 ft. farther from the fire, and the cooking process is continued slowly at a greatly reduced temperature, the meat being slowly cooked in its own juices. If the heat is too great the hardened case is apt to crack, allowing the juices to escape. To prevent this the meat is basted with hot dripping, which prevents charring and cracking of the ■.surface. If properly done this fat does not soak into the meat. Although the surface heat is very great, the heat in the interior of the joint should not be much above the coagulating point of albumin, and any rise above this renders the meat less digestible, the albuminous matters becoming hard and horny. The inside parts of a properly roasted joint are the best for a weak digestion. This process requires a quarter of an hour per pound for beef and mutton, but longer for veal and poultry. The meat loses weight from ex- pulsion of water. Baking.—-Joints of meat can be well cooked in the oven of an ordinary kitchen range or in a gas cookery, and the results are very similar to roasting. If the heat of the oven is not properly regulated the results are different, the meat being richer and more indigestible, and it has a different flavour. This is owing to the process being conducted at too high a temperature after the preliminary case hardening. Broiling, Grilling, or Brandering.—This is a similar process to roasting, and is admirably adapted for quickly cooking a chop, steak, and kidney, fish, fowl, or mushroom, etc. A clear and smokeless fire is required, and is carried on by holding the article to be cooked over the fire. The object is the same—the formation of a surface skin of coagulated albumin, and the retention within this of all the juices of the meat. To avoid breaking this coagulated layer steak tongs should be iised instead of forks for turning the meat. In this form of cooking the process is so rapidly carried on that there is not much time allowed for softening the food, so that, unless the meat is very tender, this process is not to be recommended. Boiling and steamin;/ as described here con- sists in cooking meat, fish, or vegetables either with hot water or steam, with a view to retain in the meat all the flavours, and is the opposite of soup-making, which aims at withdrawing the meat juices. Here, again, the first step is to coagulate a surface layer of albumin by plunging the joint into a large pot of boiling water, to which has been added a handful of salt. This is done on account of the boiling-point of salt water being higher than that of fresh water. The formation of this hardened case takes about seven minutes; the pot should then be with- drawn and kept at the side of the fire, not even simmering. This method is not only much more economical, but the meat is very much more tender if the cooking is slowly conducted over a period of five or six hours. The best method of slow cooking is by steaming the article of food in its own juice ; this can be done most satisfactorily in a Warren cooking pot. This is a pot consisting of three compart- ments connected by a steam chimney. Water is put into the lowest pot, in the second the meat and its flavourings, and in the top the vegetables. The food is thus cooked by steam ; all the juices of the meat are retained; and the meat will be found to be much more succulent, tender, and digestible than if simply boiled in water. If the boiling is carried to excess the meat is "boiled to rags," but this only means that all the connective tissue has become gelatinised, and the muscle fibre remains as tough as leather, and may often be recognised unchanged in the fajces. The boiling of vegetables aims at softening the cellulose and rendering it tender and digestible ; it also opens up the starch granules, so that the saliva can get at them, and converts some of the starch into dextrine. Vegetable proteids, when in the form of legumin, are not coagulable by heat, so overcooking is not so injurious, but merely entails a waste of fuel. Green vegetables and rice are eaten on account of the salts they contain. Therefore, unless they are steamed, or the water in which they are boiled is kept as stock for soup, the best part of their substance is thrown away. Steam- ing has the furtlier advantage of preserving the shape of the vegetable or fish, and of therefore presenting it in a more appetising form. Frying is boiling in oil, but as practised in this country is a dirty and wasteful method, being usually a combination of broiling and scorching. There are two forms. In dry frying—which is our national form of frying— a shallow frying-pan is used, and the food is either cooked in its own fat or with the aid of sufficient fat to prevent burning. It is only suitable for fatty food like herrings and sausages, but the products of this form of frying are often greasy, and for many persons exceedingly indigestible.