201 LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF and avoid unnecessary vaginal examinations. If the membranes rupture before complete dila- tation of the cervix the labour will be prolonged, and the risk to the child's life is increased, as the breech is a very inferior dilator to the head. Fiirther, as the breech requires less room, delay is caused in delivery of the head from want of previous complete dilatation. Second Stage.—Do not be tempted to pull down a foot or leg in the hope that it will hasten matters. Too early traction may result in the head becoming extended, or the body may come down and leave the arms extended by the side of the head, thus considerably increasing the difficulty of delivery. Leave the case to nature until the trunk is born as high up as the um- bilicus. The only treatment required to this stage is to lift out the feet as the breech slips out from the perineum, so as to prevent them catching. When the umbilicus is horn pull down a loop of the cord. If this is pulsating regidarly the child is all right. Pulling down the cord also prevents tension being put on the cord between the umbilicus and the part caught at the brim. If the cord is pulsating normally, wrap the body and legs of the child in a warm cloth, so as to avoid the risk of the cold air stimu- lating the skin and inducing the child to respire. Usually the next pain drives the child out with the exception of the head. The im- portant point in waiting for the pains is that the uterine contractions acting from behind keep the arms flexed upon the chest, thus making delivery more easy; if the child is pulled upon, the arms will very likely extend. However, if the cord is not pulsating, it is evident that in order to save the child the delivery must be hastened as much as possible, the life of the child now depending upon the skill and quickness of the practitioner. If the child has to be pulled upon, get the nurse to keep up firm and steady pressure over the fundus during the manipulations; this helps to keep the arms on the chest and the head flexed. Seize hold of the child round the pelvis, the thumbs lying parallel to each other over the sacrum (this avoids injuring the viscera from pressure by the finger), then pull down- wards and forwards until the scapulae are reached. Delivery of the Arms.-—Let the nurse draw the body of the child forward over the mother's abdomen. Then pass up the entire hand into the vagina, and along the front of the child's chest, to feel for the arms. If they are still flexed, pull them down by putting a finger first into one elbow and then into the other; this is quite easily done. If the arms are extended, turn the child so that one arm lies to the front and back. It is best to bring down the pos- terior arm first, as there is most room in the hollow of the sacrum. Now, with the body of the child held well forward over the mother's abdomen, pass the hand into the vagina, so that its palmar surface rests on the back of the child; then place the first and second fingers on the humerus, and slip them up until the elbow is reached, then with the tips of the fingers press the elbow across the child's face. The anterior arm can then be delivered as an anterior arm, or the body of the child can be rotated so that the anterior arm comes to lie in the hollow of the sacrum, and is delivered in the same way as the posterior arm. Occasionally the arm is extended and the elbow bent, and the forearm lies behind the child's back. This is known as dorsal displace- ment of the arm. This displacement in a full- time foetus and a normally-sized child arrests the advance of the head, the displaced arm becoming caught on the brim of the pelvis. The position of the arm will be discovered when the hand is passed in to deliver the arms. The arm can be set free by turning the body and pressing the vertex towards the free arm; if this fails, the arm may have to be fractured before it can be brought down. Delivery of the Head.—Unless the head is expelled by the same pain as trunk and Fig. 35.—The "Prague method" of extracting the head. shoulders, assistance is called for. This must always be effected with the greatest rapidity. As a rule, the head must be delivered within five minutes of the birth of the arms, or the child will be asphyxiated. The danger to the child from any delay is due to the following causes :— 1. The pressure on the cord between the head and the bony pelvis will stop the circulation. 2. The cold air stimulating the body of the child, causes premature respiration, and mucus or meconium is sucked into the lungs. 3. The placenta is very probably being detached. The method of delivery depends upon whether