183 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM Verte quite easily as a rule, even if the head has descended well on to the pelvic floor before rotation is begun. In addition to this, the curve-tension of the foetus has here a very powerful effect. If the head descends deeply into the pelvis with the chin still backwards, the extension of the head and neck is very considerable, and the tension in the direction of flexion is very great. We have therefore the curved rod (p. 181) bent by the shape of the tube in which it lies into a reversed curve. Given the comparatively un- restrained movement on its long axis secured by the short mento-frontal diameter, the trunk of the child will rotate on this axis as already described. It is fortunate that reduction is so much the rule; for with an unreduced mento-posterior position, in the case of a normal pelvis and head, delivery cannot take place. The reason of non-reduction is analogous to that of vertex cases. It is due to insufficient ex- tension, whereby the most favourable diameters are not brought into re- lation with the pelvis. In other words, the presentation is one very nearly that of the brow (see below), and a diameter near the mento- vertical is thrown across the pelvis. Such a diameter will measure about 5 inches, and will prevent forward rotation ; the chin will therefore move backwards into the hollow of the sacrum. There is a great difference between the state of things now present and those which obtain in the case of occipito-posterior mechanisms. In the latter the head flexes a little more; the occiput clears the perinteura, and frees the head. Here, however, the anterior fontanelle is jammed against the back of the pubes, and to enable the chin to clear the perinjeum, an amount of additional extension, of which the head is not capable, is required. For, as the base of the skull comes deeper into the pelvis, to enable this extension to take place, it brings with it the neck, and after a little more descent the upper part of the thorax. A wedge is thus endeavouring to enter the pelvic brim which the latter is unable to accommodate, and im- paction results. To enable delivery to take place, the head has to be reduced in size by perforation. In some cases of small or dead children the head has been able to extend sufficiently to permit the chin to escape over the perinseum, and allow of flexion of the head, and the gliding of the face and forehead from behind the pubes. Moulding of the Head and Caput.—These changes are pretty miich the same as those found in normal face presentations. The caput will be found over the eye and adjacent parts, on that side of the face which lies anterior in the pelvis. General Character of Laboiir.—The prognosis is not so good in these cases as in vertex pre- sentations. Labour is prolonged as already mentioned, and manipulations are often neces- sary. In the unreduced mento-posterior cases the mother runs all the risks of arrested labour. There is danger to the foetus from over- extension of the neck, especially when the chin is backwards; and the cord may prolapse. (For Management, see p. 199.) Brow Presentations The head in these cases, which are very rare, is in an attitude midway between flexion and extension; and the longest diameter, the mento- vertical (5| inches), endeavours to engage in the brim. The head is, in consequence, in a state of unstable equilibrium, and no doubt practically all face cases pass through this condition at one time or another in their pro- gress ; so that until it engages in the brim, or at all events persists in endeavouring to engage, this attitude has no special importance. Face Engagement at all, in the case of a normally sized head and normal pelvis, is impossible until a very great amount of moulding has taken place. Mode of Prod%iction.—When the head lies on the brim in this attitude the downward pressure must have a vertical direction; or if there is a tendency towards flexion or extension, the obliquity of the uterus must be exactly enough to counteract such tendency and preserve the unstable equilibrium. Thus the cause of brow presentations is the same as that of face pre- sentations, but acting less completely. On each side of brow presentations may be placed a series of presentations of the vertex and of the face. Nearest to it on the one side, that of flexion, is the imperfectly flexed head that leads to persistence of the occipito-posterior position, and nearest on the side of extension is the incompletely extended face presentation which leads to persistent mento-posterior mech- anisms. Diagnosis.—On abdominal examination, if the woman be a favourable subject, the projection of the occiput and the chin can be made out, one on each aspect of the child. The head will in practically all cases be lying high, since it cannot enter the brim. Per vaginam, if the head can be reached, the bregma is found at one end of the presenting part and the glabella at the other. The orbital arches will be recognised, and will indi- cate the anterior surface of the child.