355 LARYNX, MALIGNANT DISEASE OF it extends in both directions, when, of course, all the symptoms named will make their appear- ance in combination. In this variety, too, the implication of the cervical lymphatic glands may occur at so early a period that no suspicion is entertained of the existence of the internal disease, and the glandular tumour is considered to be primary. In very rare cases a malignant tumour, particularly when starting from the aryteno- epiglottidean fold, may be at first pedunculated, when the symptoms, of course, would vary according to whether it falls into the larynx or rests in the pyriform sinus, causing vocal disturbances and dyspnoea at one, and incon- venience in deglutition at another time. Finally, that extremely rare variety must be mentioned in which, from the very first, the symptoms are so much those of perichondritis (pain, difficulty in swallowing, vocal changes, febrility, etc.) that the existence of malignant disease is hardly taken into consideration at all. I have quite recently seen a case of that kind, in which the diagnosis of tuberculous perichon- dritis had been made, and in which my diagnosis of malignant disease was received rather in- credulously. The further progress of the case, however, fully established its correctness. Diagnosis. — The diagnosis of malignant disease of the larynx in its earliest stages often is very difficult, inasmuch as its appearances at its very onset are so protean that it may easily be mistaken for various other affections, the differential diagnosis from which will be treated later on. The very earliest sign, as a rule, is simple congestion of the parts, which afterwards become tumefied. This, of course, will be most manifest if the disease starts from one of the vocal cords, and the unilateral character of the congestion will at once draw the attention of the experienced observer to the probability of impending graver mischief. In other cases the disease, from the first, begins in the form of a diffuse tumefaction. This tumefaction may occupy any part of the larynx, but its seats of predilection are dis- tinctly the vocal cords, and after them the ventricular bands. In its further progress it may take either the form of a general infiltra- tion of the affected parts, in which all the preformed parts attacked completely perish, or it may form a more definite tumour, appearing as a rule as a somewhat globular, irregular, nodulated, sessile mass, the colour of which may be either that of the surrounding mucous membrane, or somewhat more pale or more dusky-looking than the latter. Neither of the two categories just described, as a rule, offers much difficulty in diagnosis when the new growth has attained a certain size. Occasion- ally, however, particularly in cases of general tumefaction, matters are not so easy, and mistakes may be committed even by the most experienced observer. (See further on the dif- ferential diagnosis between malignant disease, syphilis, and tuberculosis.) The really difficult cases, however, are those in which cancer or sarcoma of the larynx make their appearance in the form of an apparently innocent new growth. Malignant disease often enough shows itself first either in the form of a somewhat nondescript tumour, or even com- pletely simulates the appearance of a papilloma or a fibroma. The similarity becomes even more striking if, as in rare instances, the malignant new growth is pedunculated. Should, as in a unique case observed by me, the papillomatous appearance of a small epithelioma be addition- ally concealed by a large blood-clot, which had formed round the papillomatous excrescences, the new growth may be taken—as, indeed, it was in this case by several competent observers —for an angioma. Whilst the difiiculties in this class of cases are sometimes undoubtedly very great, yet there are certain points which will help us in establishing the differential diagnosis between benign and malignant growths of the larynx. First of all the age of the patient comes into question. Although benign growths of the larynx may arise at any time of life—in fact, from intra-uterine existence up to the age of eighty or more—yet the earlier half of life up to the age of forty certainly is much more prone to such growths than the later. On the other hand, as already stated, malignant growths, though in rare cases they may arise at an early period of life, are infinitely more frequent from the age of forty upwards. Thus a growth, otherwise innocent-looking enough, the history of which shows that it had arisen after the fortieth year, is a priori suspicious. Secondly, a malignant new growth, even in its early stages, is often, though not always, surrounded by a zone of circumscribed dusky hypersemia, which, particularly when the growth, occupies the middle part of the vocal cord, is in striking contrast to the brilliant white colour of the anterior and posterior ends of the cord. It must, however, be emphasised that this hypersemia is not always present, and that its absence does not exclude malignancy. Thirdly, with regard to the differential diagnosis of malignant neoplasms from indi- vidual forms of new growths, this is to be said : a laryngeal cancer may at first look en- tirely like a papilloma, but a benign papilloma shows a decided tendency to localise itself on the anterior parts of the vocal cords, and it is therefore a priori suspicious if a papillomatous growth, particularly in a person advanced in years, should be met with on the posterior parts of the vocal cords, or, worse still, in the inter- arytenoid fold, where benign growths are hardly ever found.