509 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES the exception in hydatids; a history of hepatitis, dysentery, and hectic are frequent concomitants of abscess ; hydatids, on the other hand, unless when they proceed to suppuration, show none of these. But an abscess may be latent and, if large, may give rise to the presence of a painless tumour with fluctuation, without any other local or constitutional disturb- ance. On the other hand, nothing is more common than for a tropical resident to show signs of failing health without any definite diagnosable lesion. Loss of weight and appetite, want of mental and physical energy, evanescent attacks of fever, occasional intestinal disturb- ances may persist, and yet it is impossible to ascribe the signs and symptoms to any particular organ. More often than not "climate" is assigned as the cause, and the patient is advised to go home—that is, to return to Europe. During the voyage home, especially when colder latitudes are reached, or after being at home a year or more, symptoms of liver abscess develop which in all probability was present but "latent" before the patient left the Tropics. Most of the single liver abscesses met with, in Britain at all events, occur in persons who have returned from the Tropics—not necessarily recently, for a liver abscess may appear years after leaving warm climates. That the abscess was in the liver before leaving the Tropics is, of course, not positively known ; but the writer has had experience of patients whom he has sent home with the indefinite symptoms above recorded and in whom a liver abscess developed after reaching England, and the con- clusion that undiagnosed pus existed in the liver before the patient left the Tropics would seem feasible and probable. Of the conditions and ailments likely to be mistaken for liver abscess are—-pylephlebitis, pyelitis of the right kidney, pneumonia of the right base, hepatitis, hypersemia, congestion or enlargement of the liver due to cardiac or pulmonary lesions, gall-stones or inflammation of the gall-bladder, subphrenic abscess. These can only be eliminated by careful clinical ob- servation and a study of the history in each case. Malaria in its symptoms resembles in some measure those due to pus in the liver, and here again clinical records are of the utmost value. In liver abscess the spleen is seldom enlarged ; there may be no malarial parasites in the blood; the maximum rise in temperature takes place towards evening only; quinine has no specific effect on the course of the fever. Hepatic enlargement in malaria is general; in hepatic abscess there is, when the abscess approaches the surface, a distinct tumour. Perihepatitis, the result of malaria, is usually general, and not localised as in the case of pus reaching the liver boundaries. Enlargement of the liver in leucocythsemia or pernicious anaemia may suggest pus, but the general symptoms and an examination of the blood will settle the diagnosis well-nigh con- clusively. Of other tumours, such as gummata, those of a malignant nature, etc., clinical acumen must determine the differential points at issue. In almost all cases where liver abscess is suspected, explanatory puncture of the liver is justified and should be undertaken at an early period of the illness. Should leucocythsemia or anaemia be present, however, puncture of liver is un- advisable; but in this case, as in malaria, an examination of the blood from the finger will aid, if it does not altogether decide, the diagnosis. Prognosis. — Recovery from a liver abscess depends upon the cause of the disease, upon the course the pus pursues, upon the stage at which the disease is brought under treatment, and upon the nature of the operation undertaken. When there is more than one abscess, and when the disease is associated with (general) pyeemia, the prognosis is highly unfavourable. Should, on the other hand, the abscess be single and be of the nature of a " tropical" abscess, instead of a pysemic infection, the patient with or without operation has a chance —it may be a fair or even a good chance—of recovery. When the abscess points at the anterior wall of the abdomen, and is there opened, the prog- nosis is favourable. When the abscess bursts in the bowel, recovery may also be hoped for. Good results may also follow the bursting of the abscess into a bronchus, the pus finding exit by way of the expectoration. This result, although considered a favourable termination by those who still believe in non-interference, cannot be regarded as highly favourable. The abscess may be of such a size that the pus cannot be sufficiently quickly expectorated, and the air-passages of both lungs may be swamped with the quantity of pus, causing an infective pneumonia with speedily fatal results. On the other hand, the consequent expectoration, owing to the pus rising in the bronchi, may so harass the patient that all attempts at rest or sleep are impossible; and the patient, already en- feebled by the illness, may succumb in a day or two from exhaustion. Should, however, the initial rupture of the abscess be lived through, there is no guarantee that recovery will result. In such cases the rule is that when the abscess cavity is relieved of its contents a cessation of fever, cough, etc., takes place, only to be re- newed when the cavity refills. Emptying and refilling may alternate for many months or for years before the cavity heals; and the patient at any time may develop hectic and succumb to the prolonged constitutional strain. At first the intervals in the attacks may be but a week or two, but afterwards two or three or more months may intervene. Every time the cavity