LARYNX, MALIGNANT DISEASE OF 352 rarity of the disease, however, it is of the greatest importance that the general practi- tioner, to whom this class of patients almost always applies at first, should be well acquainted with the early symptoms. It will be shown that, if recognised in the initial stages, a much larger proportion of cases of malignant disease of the larynx can be radically and lastingly cured than is at present considered possible, whilst if its recognition should be much delayed, owing to the erroneous notions which, unfortunately, still very generally prevail with regard to the early symptoms of the disease, the patient's chances are becoming much worse, or are even entirely lost. The description of both carcinoma and sarcoma of the larynx may well be combined, inasmuch as, with regard to the symptoma- tology, diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment, the two forms of malignant growths run so very similar a course that to describe them separately would entail useless repetitions. From the practical point of view, however, it is desirable to adopt the late Professor Krishaber's terminology, and to distinguish between "intrinsic and extrinsic carcinoma." The former variety comprises cancers arising from the interior proper of the larynx, i.e. from the vocal cords, ventricular bands, ventricles of Morgagni, and the subglottic cavity. Extrinsic carcinomas grow from the epiglottis, the aryteno-epiglottic folds, the inter-arytenoid fold, and the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage. Sarcoma of the larynx much more frequently belongs to the intrinsic than to the extrinsic variety. Etiology.—The origin of malignant disease of the larynx is as little known as that of malignant disease in general. It is still quite uncertain whether the affection be due to a microbic invasion or to a developmental error. A few facts, however, of great practical import- ance are known with regard to the natural history of the disease. First of all, the affection is almost always primary, i.e. it either arises in the larynx itself or reaches that organ by direct contiguity; metatastic or secondary cancer and sarcoma of the larynx, if occurring at all, are extremely rare. On the other hand, primary cancer of the larynx has little or no tendency to secondarily affect the internal organs or distant parts of the body. But there is that great and, from a practical point of view, most important difference between intrinsic and extrinsic cancer of the larynx that, in the former, the lymphatic glands of the neck are only affected very late in the progress of the disease, and sometimes not at all, whilst in the extrinsic form these glands become implicated to a large extent and, as a rule, at a very early period. Sarcoma of the larynx, as a rule, shows equally little tendensy to affect the lymphatic glands of the neck and the internal organs of the body. Secondly, the male sex is undoubtedly much more prone to cancer of the larynx than the female. In my own experience the proportion is about three to one, and this, I believe, agrees with the general experience. At the same time it is extremely curious that whilst among my male patients one-fourth only of the total number suffered from purely extrinsic malignant disease, considerably the greater half of my female patients were affected with this much more intractable form of the fell disease, the new growth usually starting from the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage. The causes of these differences are quite obscure ; the facts, however, can be vouched for. Thirdly, the overwhelming proportion of all cases of malignant disease coming under observation is formed by the thirty years of life between 40 and 70; and of these thirty years, again, the decade between 50 and 60 takes up by far the largest individual pro- portion. Neither younger nor greater age, however, is spared by the scourge; I have myself seen and described three cases in which the age of the patient was 80 or more, and several in which the age was between 20 and 40. My youngest patient was 27 years old, and recently, by a curious coincidence, I have within three weeks seen three patients afflicted with laryngeal cancer, whose ages were between 30 and 35. Even younger patients suffering from laryngeal cancer have been seen by other observers, and, in a very few cases, even children have been described as suffering from this terrible disease. Fourthly, occupation, heredity, and habits, according to my experience, have no influence whatever upon the production of the disease. It is met with in the upper classes just as frequently, if not more so, than in the lower ; the strong are, if anything, more frequently attacked than the weak; smokers and people addicted to alcohol are not more liable to the affection than total abstainers; people leading an active life are just as prone as those whose occupations are sedentary; and professional voice- users run no greater danger than silent people. Fifthly, the assertion that there was a special liability of benign laryngeal growths to undergo malignant degeneration, particularly after intra- laryngeal operation, has been shown by me on the basis of collective investigation, made amongst the leading laryngologists of the world, to have been totally unfounded. In 8216 cases of intralaryngeal operation, five cases only were reported in which such a transformation could be admitted as certain, i.e. 1 in 1645. In seven further cases the transformation, though not certain, was probable, and in another ten doubt- ful ; so that even if the probable and doubtful cases were admitted, in addition to the certain