JOINTS, DISEASES OF 76 servative ti'eatment include the placing of the joint at complete rest, the correction of abnormal attitudes;, the production of venous congestion, and tlie injection of iodoform ; all these may not be applicable in every case. The treatment by rest implies the immobilisa- tion of the diseased limb until pain and tender- ness have disappeared. It is carried out by means of bandages, plaster-of-Paris splints, or other apparatus according to the joint aifected. The attitude in which the limb is immobilised should be that in which, in the event of subse- quent stiffness, it will be most serviceable to the patient. Extension with the weight and pulley is a valuable adjunct, especially in disease of the hip or knee; it eliminates muscular spasm and the pressure of the articular surfaces against one another ; it relieves pain and start- ings at night; it prevents abnormal attitudes of the limb, and may bring about their dis- appearance, provided they are not associated with organic changes which render them per- manent. The question of abnormal attitudes is discussed in the special articles on the hip and knee, but it may be stated generally that if the limb is in a deformed attitude when the patient first comes under observation, and it does not readily yield to extension, it should be corrected straight away under an ansesthetic. The permanent deformed attitudes which are due to contraction of the soft parts around the joint or to ankylosis will be considered later. The injection of iodoform, if carried out efficiently, is of great value. The preparation employed is a 10 per cent emulsion of powdered iodoform in glycerine, which becomes " sterile " soon after it is made. Its curative effects would appear to depend upon its antiseptic properties, which, although slight, continue in action for weeks or months, and upon its capacity for irritating the tissues and stimu- lating the formation of scar tissue. The usual antiseptic precautions are imperative. An ansesthetic is rarely called for. If it IS 2^roposed to inject the cavity of an abscess the contents are first evacuated through a medium - sized trocar, introduced obliquely, avoiding any part where the skin is thin or red. If the trocar is blocked with caseous material it must be cleared with a probe. The iodoform is injected by means of a glass barrelled syringe which will screw securely on to the trocar. The amount injected varies from 4 cc. in small children to 30 cc. or more in adults. The puncture is covered with a pad of gauze, and a dressing is applied which will exert a certain amoiuit of compression. If it is preferred to mahe an incision into the abscess (and this may be necessary where the contents are semi-solid, or may be indicated when it is intended to clear out a localised focus in the bone) the cavity is emptied, and the iodo- form is injected through a rubber tube attached to the syringe, simultaneously with the closure of the wound by sutures, so that the cavity when closed will be distended with the emulsion. If the abscess wall has been scraped with the spoon a less amount of iodoform is injected, as the drug is more likely to be absorbed. The method is unsatisfactory unless the wound heals by first intention. The iodoform injection may require to be repeated after an interval of three to six weeks ; the author has, however, repeatedly cured retro- pharyngeal, lumbar, and psoas abscesses by a single injection, sometimes through the trocar, sometimes through an incision. If it is piroposed to inject the iodoform into the joint the procedure varies with the nature of the lesion. In cases of hydrops and of empysema the method is the same as in abscess, and is easily carried out, especially in the knee. The sites to be selected for injecting the different joints are as follows:—(Krause) wrist, just below the radial or ulnar styloid process ; elbow, just above the head of the radius; shoulder, either outside the coracoid or at the junction of the acromion with the spine of the scapula; ankle, below either malleolus, then direct the trocar upwards ; knee, by way of the supra- patellar pouch, or between the bones at the inner side of the ligamentum patellte ; hip (see "Hip-Joint, Diseases of"). When the joint is not distended with fluid, e.g. in white swelling, the conditions for distributing the iodine are less favourable. In the knee, the joint may be divided up into compai-tments by septa of connective tissue derived from the synovial membrane, and the iodoform must be intro- duced into all of them. The trocar must be thrust in all directions, successive parts of the joint being attacked at different sittings, and the injections must be repeated more frequently and at shorter intervals (ten to fourteen days). Opinion is divided on the question of massage and gentle passive movements with the object of distributing the iodoform ; some believe that this entails the risk of disseminating the tubercle bacilli. Injections into the substance of the synovial mendnune (parenchymatous in- jections) are less certain, are more painful, and require greater pressure on the piston of the syringe. Mikulicz and others attempt to inject the iodoform into the adjacent bones when they are soft enough to allow of the entrance of the trocar. Wherever the iodoform is introduced it remains for long periods, and may be seen as a dark shadow in skiagraphs. After any form of iodoform injection, one must be prepared for considerable reaction, attended with fever (101° F.), headache, malaise, and it may be sickness for fron\ one to three days, and considerable pain and swelling of the joint. The reaction diminishes with each sub- sequent injection. When an abscess has ruptured and left a sinus.