LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 216 and outwards, and so widen the pelvis. As the acetabula are pressed upwards and outwards, the iHa are pressed in the same direction, and C D Fia. 15.—Rickety flat pelvis. AB, true conjugate ; AC, diagonal conjugate; CD, antero-posterior diameter at outlet; black line, normal pelvis; dotted line, contracted pelvis. the iliac fossae come to look more forwards and less inwards than in the normal pelvis; so that the iliac crests, instead of at their anterior parts E Fio. 16.—Diagram of brim of small fiat rickety pelvis. BB, sacrum; 11, centre of sacrum in plane of brim; CC, trans- verse diameter; DD, ilio-pectineal eminence ; A, symphysis pubis ; continuous line, normal pelvis; dotted line, con- tracted pelvis. curving inwards, run directly forwards, or even forwards and outwards. The ilia are slightly rotated about an axis parallel with the sacro- A Fig. 17.—Diagram of pelvic cavity in small flat rickety pelvis: continuous line, normal pelvis; dotted line, contracted pelvis. AB, true conjugate ; AC, diagonal conjugate; DC, antero-posterior diameter of outlet. iliac synchondrosis, so that the posterior iliac spines are nearer together than in the normal pelvis. The trochanters ai'e, with relation to the pelvis, farther upwards and outwards than normal; and this involves an extra pull, in an upward and outward direction, upon the muscles running from the ischia to the tro- chanters. Hence by slight eversion of the ischial tuberosities the outlet of the pelvis is a little widened. The epiphyses in rickets are enlarged; hence in the rickety pelvis the Fig. 18.—Scolio-rachitic pelvis. epiphyses of the sacral vertebrae can be felt as ridges running across it, and the symphysis pubis is thickened. Rickets is accompanied with stunting of growth; hence rickety subjects are generally undersized, and a rickety pelvis is often small. Therefore we have two kinds of rickety pelvis : th.e flat I'ickety j^elvis, in which the conjugate is A Fig. 19.—Diagram of brim of scolio-rachitic pelvis : continuous line, normal pelvis; dotted line, deformed pelvis. BB, sacro- iliac synchondroses; E, centre of sacrum in plane of brim; CC, transverse diameter; DD, pectineal eminences ; Aj^sym- physis pubis. diminished but the transverse measurements either normal or increased; and the small flat rickety 2^elvis, in which all the diameters are small, but the conjugate is especially contracted. The cases of extreme pelvic contraction that are met with in England are almost all pelves either of this kind, or of the one next to be described. With rickets there often goes lateral curvature of the spine. When this is so, the pelvis is unsymmetrically deformed. The body weight