LABOUE, FAULTS IN THE PASSENGER 241 waters, is more liable to injury from pressure than usual; the soft parts are also exposed to pressure from the uncovered head. The risks attendant upon exhaustion and interference must be remembered. The management con- sists in artificial dilatation, which may be accom- plished as above mentioned, either manually or by hydrostatic dilators, the best of these, as in the previous case, being the bag of Champetier de Ribes. Membranes (a) Thinness of the Membranes.—The obstetric interest of this condition depends upon the fact that unduly thin membranes are easily ruptured under circumstances such as those mentioned in the previous paragraph. In other words, the condition is a predisposing cause of early escape of the liquor amnii and subsequent " dry labour " (q.V.). (b) Toughness of the Membranes. — Tough membranes do not rupture at the usual time, namely, as soon as dilatation is complete— in other words, at the commencement of the second stage of labour. Sometimes a child is born with its face and head covered by a portion of the membranes known as a caul; and occasionally birth is completed even at full time without any rupture of the membranes, the ovum being expelled complete, the mem- branes and placenta forming a sac containing the child and liquor amnii. Persistence of the membranes after dilatation is complete ofi^ers considerable resistance to the descent of the foetal head (or breech). Artificial rupture of the membranes is therefore indicated as soon as the cervix and lower uterine segment are completely canalised. Some authorities hold that this method of hastening the second stage of labour should not be employed in first labours, as they consider that the bag of waters is of value in dilating the vaginal orifice. Artificial rupture of the membranes must be performed with aseptic precautions, not during a pain, lest the rush of waters should carry down a loop of the cord. Care must be taken to avoid injuring the foetal scalp and the maternal passages. The safest method is to pinch up a bit of membrane and tear it outward. If this cannot be done with the fingers it may be managed with a pair of artery forceps: a sterilised hair-pin or any other blunt instrument may be used. (c) Adhesion of the Membranes to the Lower Uterine Segment.—We define the lower uterine segment, for practical purposes, as that portion of the body of the uterus which is passive and becomes dilated during labour. Its surface is altered in shape during the first stage from that of a cup to that of a tube. It is clear that in the formation of the bag of waters and dilatation of the cervix, a movement of the membranes over the surface of the lower uterine segment is VOL. V absolutely unavoidable. Thus if the membranes are adherent to the lower uterine segment, and do not break, dilatation cannot occur. Complete adhesion of this kind is, of course, theoretical; but adhesion suflicient to delay dilatation con- siderably is a practical difficulty, and results from inflammatory conditions of the endo- metrium during early pregnancy. Diagnosed by touch as soon as a finger can be passed through the os internum, this condition is easily I'emoved by sweeping the finger round the os, separating the membranes from the uterine sur- face for a distance of about two inches all round. Placenta Prolax)se of the Placenta.—This rare occurrence occasionally causes mechanical obstruction to the course of labour. It presupposes premature separation of the placenta, and is generally met with in connection with the delivery of already dead children. The diagnosis is easy and the treatment is obvious. In placenta prsevia (see " Pregnancy, Hfemorrhage during ") delivery is frequently mechanically obstructed by the placenta. It is sometimes necessary to deliver through the organ, and this procedure is by no means always fatal to the child. Cord (See also Abnormalities of the Cord, and Pro- lapse of Cord, p. 246.) Mechanical diflaculty in labour maybe caused by "absolute" or by relative or "accidental" shortness of the um- bilical cord, which may be only a few inches long, or, while of full length, may be so wound round the child that its free portion is not long- enough to permit of delivery without separation of the placenta. The second is the commoner variety of shortness. A strong cord may resist the expulsive powers to the extent of fifteen pounds' weight, and may thus greatly delay or completely arrest labour. Premature separa- tion of the placenta may result seriously, endangering the life of the child, and exposing the mother to severe hfemorrhage. Inversion of the uterus is another possible result of short- ness of the cord. The diagnosis of retardation of labour by absolute or accidental shortness of the cord is very difficult, especially before the head is born. If, however, the head recedes markedly between pains, and if labour lags without any other ascertainable cause, this condition will be suspected to exist. The escape of blood before the head is born suggests premature separation of the placenta and points to the same conclusion. In such cases forceps should be applied; or if the breech presents, delivery should be attempted by traction and abdominal pressure. When the head is born the cord is generally within reach of palpation. It should be clamped or ligatured in two places and divided between them. 16