207 LABOUR IN MULTIPLE PREGNANCY time iindue delay may increase the difficulty; for in a partially emptied uterus delay tends to irregular action, and an unequal degree of retraction of the uterine walls, thus increasing the risk of post-partum hsemorrhage. The placentae are usually expelled together, but when developed separately and occupying dis- tant sites, the placenta of the first born may come away before the birth of the second child. The same thing may occur where each foetus occupies the separate halves of a double uterus ; and so also may be explained the rare occurrence of one foetus being retained in utero, it may be for weeks, after the birth of the other. After the birth of a second child, the possi- bility of a third or more must be kept in mind. Complicated Twin Cases. — Under various conditions, fortunately rare, real difficulties may be experienced. These arise where both foetuses occupy a single amniotic sac, or where the membranes of the farther child rupture before the birth of the nearer. 1. Diffei-ent parts of each child may simulta- neously engage in the brim, as the head or breech of one and the feet of the other, or a foot of each child. Care in ascertaining the relation- ship of the several parts is essential; with accurate diagnosis difficulty can be avoided, by operating on one child at a time; with a head unable to enter the brim, turning should be tried. 2. Interlocked Twins.—Two or more varie- ties have been described. Where both foetuses present by the head, the difficulty arises when the second head engages in the brim or has passed into the pelvic cavity along with the neck and thorax of the first child. In the other variety, the fi^'st is breech, the secoTid head. When the trunk of the first child presenting by the breech or feet is born, the progress of the after-coming head is obstructed by the head of the second child having been pressed in before it. Similar inter- locking may occur where the second child lies transverse. The difficulty in delivery under such circumstances will, in all probability, be experienced before the operator is aware of the presence of a second child. When recognised, the actual relations of the two bodies should always be carefully examined by the external as well as internal methods; and it should always be remembered that in attempts at rectification, external pressure in a proper direction by an assistant will facilitate the process. The patient should be deeply chloroformed to check, as far as possible, uterine action; for contractions but aggravate the conditions, and waiting to see what nature may accomplish will increase the difficulty by allowing an increasing amount of uterine retraction. An effort should first be made by combined internal and external pressure to raise the second head or other obstructing part above the brim, and, if successful, it must be kept there by steady external pressure, whilst traction by forceps or otherwise is made on the first child. Failing this, the two heads in succession may be extracted by the forceps; the small size of the heads usually admits of this being done. If too large for the size of the pelvis, decapitation may be necessary. Under such circumstances, as the child that first presents is the most likely to be lost, it is better to sacrifice it, in the hope of being able to save the second child, which should then be extracted by forceps without waiting. 3. United Twins (for varieties, see "Tera- tology ").—It is surprising how frequently the delivery of conjoined twins has been accom- plished by the natural powers—85 times in 150 cases (Hohl and Playfair). The presenta- tion is always the same in the two foetuses. By the feet is the more favourable; therefore, where possible, it is well to turn in head cases, and if breech, to bring down all four feet. The diagnosis, however, can rarely be made till the labour has considerably advanced. When, how- ever, the cause of the difficulty is investigated and two heads are discovered, turning should, if possible, be adopted. In delivery by the natural powers a process of spontaneous evolu- tion has been observed—one head and shoulders are born, then the corresponding trunk and limbs; the lower portion of the other follows, and, lastly, its shoulders and head. It is well, therefore, carefully to observe the mechanism that is taking place, and aid as far as possible. In some cases evisceration may be necessary. B. PATHOLOGICAL SECTION Precipitate and Prolonged Labour General View op Labour . . . 208 Precipitate Labour .... 208 Prolonged Labour .... 208 A. Primary Uterine Inertia . . 209 B. Secondary Uterine Inertia . . 209 C. Premature Uterine Retraction . 210 D. Obstructed Labour . . .210 Pelvic Deformities— How the Shape of the Pelvis is pro- duced . . . . . .212 The Common Kinds of Contracted Pelvis 213 The Flat Pelvis . . . .214 The Small Rou7id Pelvis . . .214 The Small Flat Pelvis . . .214 Rickety Deformities of the Pelvis : the Flat Rickety Pelvis, the Small Flat Rickety Pelvis, the Scolio- rachitic Pelvis . . . .215 The Mechanism op Labour with Con- tracted Pelvis . . . . .217 Labour with the Flat Pelvis . .217 Labour with the Small Round Pelvis. 219