92 KIDNEY stances, the composition of the blood remaining very constant. The action of caffein as a diuretic has been carefully investigated with the oncograph, and it has been shown that secretion varies directly with the shrinkage or expansion of the kidney. It is difficult, on the filtration hypothesis, to explain why two crystalloids like urea and glucose, although their percentages in the blood are approxi- mately the same, should pass into the urine in such different proportions. Again, as Max Hermann pointed out, if the renal artery be occluded for 1^ minutes only, the secretion of urine will not begin again until three-quarters of an hour have elapsed. It must be re- membered also that the water has not only to pass through the capillary walls, but also through the glomerular covering, be that epi- thelial or syncytial, and that must offer a great resistance to filtration (c/). Leber's experiments on Descemet's membrane in the cornea). There can be no doubt that venous conges- tion may cause obstruction to urinary outflow, either directly, or as a result of oedema by compression of the collecting tubules in the medullary rays, as Ludwig pointed out, and also that hindrance to urinary excretion may cause venous congestion. But if there are difficulties in the case of a physical explanation of the glomerular functions, they are but insignificant in importance com- jjared to those which immediately present themselves when an attempt is made to prove the accuracy of the second part of Lud wig's hypothesis, namely, the concentration of the dilute urine in the convoluted tubules. Long ago Hoppe-Seyler pointed out that water passed from blood serum to urine across an animal membrane, and more recently it has been shown that normally the osmotic pressure of the iirine is decidedly greater than that of defibrinated blood or serum. These experiments proved that Ludwig's theory in its original form was untenable, for in order that the process of concentration might be carried on, work must be performed by the cells of the convoluted tubules, that is to say, the process must be regarded as one of active secretion. Von Sobieranski adopted Ludwig's views in the main, but regarded the cells of the convoluted tubules as actively absoi-bing water. His con- clusions were based upon certain experiments dealing with the coux'se of coloured substances through the kidney after injection. He noticed that pigment granules tended to be deposited in the part of the cell next the lumen, and not in the basal part, as one would expect, if the cells of the convoluted tubules took them up from the blood. Munk and Senator liold with the first part of Ludwig's theory, but accept Heidenhain's view of the specific secreting properties of the cells of the convoluted tubules and ascending limb of Henle's loop. The Specific Secretory Hypothesis was put forward by Bowman in the first place, but he based it largely on his interpretation of the arrangement of glomeruli, tubules, and blood-vessels, rather than on any experimental evidence. It is to Heidenhain that we are indebted for most of the experimental proofs that render the theory a feasible one. As a result of experiments carried out by himself and others, for the purely physical hypothesis he was led to substitute one in which the specific activity of gland cells played the important role. In his classical article on renal secretion in Hermann's Handbuch he sums up his views under five brief headings: — 1. As in all other glands, secretion in the kidneys depends upon the active participation of special secretory cells. 2. In the first place, the cells covering the glomerulus secrete water and the salts which as a rule accompany it, e.g. common salt. 3. The other set of cells, lining the convoluted tubules and the broad part of the ascending limb of Henle's loop, serves for the secretion of the special urinary solids, urea, uric acid, etc., and also a certain quantity of water. 4. The degree of activity of the two types of cells depends upon {a) Percentage of water and urinary solids in the blood. (6) Rapidity of blood-flow in renal capillaries so far as that aftects food-supply for the special cells. 5. The great variability in the composition of the urine is explained by variations in the secretory activity of the two t}q)es of cells. Thus, according to Heidenhain, the water of the urine is most largely obtained from the glomerular capillaries, and he only differs from Ludwig in emphasising the importance of the rate of blood-flow rather than alterations in the pressure. Nussbaum's experiments on exclusion of the glomeruli of the amphibian kidney by tying the renal artery and studying the effects before and after injection of urea, sugar, egg, albiunin, and peptone, are not conclusive, be- cause it has been shown that it is impossible to cut off" the glomerular blood-supply by tying the renal artery, seeing that there are anasto- moses between branches of the renal portal (which was supposed to supply the convoluted tubules alone) and the renal artery. It is also unnecessary to describe fully Heidenhain's experiments on the injection of indigo-carmine, because the results that he obtained have been shown to be by no means so definite as was at first imagined. Even if it were proved beyond doubt that indigo-carmine was secreted by tlie rodded cells of the con- voluted tubules and the broad part of the ascending limbs of Henle's loop, and that the glomerular secretion merely washed it down into the collecting tubules, it by no means