KIDNEY 95 a movable kidney sometimes occurs, very rarely the improvement is permanent. The collection of symptoms which represent a movable kidney are of the most varied description. Simple enumeration only leads to further confusion, for none of them are charac- teristic. They fall, however, into three well- marked groups, and are thus most conveniently described although combinations of the different types occur:—(1) Genito-urinary group, (2) Gastro-intestinal group, (3) Nervous group. (1) Genito-urinary Group.—These cases re- semble renal calculus in many of its phases. The pain is in the loin or side; it is often insidious in its onset, and of a dull, heavy, aching character. It may be occasional and increased by exercise (horse-riding, etc.), or it may be constant and become more severe as time goes on. In a large number of cases (41'8 per cent) there are attacks at intervals of severe pain exactly simulating renal colic in their character and distribution. The same intense agony and prostration are seen, the same nausea and vomiting, sweating, feeble rapid pulse, diminu- tion of urine, and even anuria and urtemia (Pribram) may be present, and the same sudden relief from the symptoms is obtained. The patient during an attack sits doubled up with his knees to his chin and his body bent (New- man). The temperature often rises during an attack (Fiirbringer). Hsematuria may follow these attacks. Blood was present in the urine in 18 per cent of Morris's cases of movable kidney. During an attack the kidney is increased in size, and relief is followed by a copious polyuria. Frequency of micturition may occur (18 per cent), and pus in small amount may be observed. Albumin is present in the urine in 14 per cent of cases (Schilling). So closely do these cases resemble renal calculus that in many the exclusion is only complete when the renal substance has been incised and the kidney and pelvis explored by the finger. (2) Gastro-intestinal Group.—The symptoms point to gastric trouble : the patient is dyspeptic, complains of pain in the back, a sensation of sinking and weight after food. Constipation is often present, nausea and anorexia are frequently complained of. Jaundice may occur as already noted. On examination of the abdomen the stomach is sometimes found dilated (Litten says in 55 per cent), and sometimes a general condition of enteroptosis may be discovered. (3) Nervous Group.—The symptoms vary greatly. The patient is often nervous, irritable, excitable, and suffers from palpitation. Severe neuralgia may be present, or the pains may be vague and variable. Spots of hypersesthesia and antesthetic areas often occur. Sometimes weakness of the lower extremities has been seen (Senator). The symptoms may be typical of hysteria, or the patient may be neurasthenic. In those cases there is often a neurotic familj' history, and a slight injury frequently determines the onset of the symptoms. Diagnosis.—In all cases the diagnosis rests upon the discovery of a movable tumour which is recognised as the kidney. Sometimes a movable abdominal swelling is the first sign noted. It may be discovered by the patient either before or after the onset of symptoms. In the slighter degrees of movable kidney, if the mobility can be detected the position of the swelling leaves no doubt as to its nature ; but in the more pronounced cases, where the range of mobility extends towards or into the false pelvis or towards the middle line, there are other conditions which may lead to confusion. The movable kidney has certain characters which should always be looked for. The shape can sometimes be made out and is character- istic ; there are no sharp borders ; by manipula- tion the organ can be replaced in the loin; on percussion a dull tympanitic note is obtained anteriorly. No conchisions can be drawn from the per- cussion of the loin, or the presence or absence of hollowing in that region. Albarran points out that sometimes, when the right lobe of the liver is displaced downwards and the kidney movable, the size of the kidney may appear very great on palpation, and a hydronephrotic tumour be diagnosed when none is present. The abdominal swellings most likely to be confused with a wandering kidney are :—■ (1) An Ovarian Cyst with a long Pedicle.—- The swelling can be reduced into the pelvis, but cannot be placed in the renal region. It is dull on percussion, and sometimes the abdominal wall is sufficiently thin to recognise that the form is not that of the kidney. (2) A distended ga.ll-hladder has a smaller range of mobility, and its dulness is continuous with that of the liver, while it is not reducible into the lumbar fossa. Jaundice, if present, inclines to the diagnosis of distention of the gall-bladder ; but it should not be forgotten that an attack of jaundice may complicate a movable kidney, and further, that biliary and renal colic may be very similar, and, lastly, that the two conditions may occur together. (3) An hydatid cyst attached to the lower surface of the liver may cause difficulty. It is, however, painless, and swings roimd an axis corresponding more to that of the gall-bladder than the kidney. The tumour is not reducible into the loin. (4) A wandering spleen has a sharp margin, sometimes notched, and a dull percussion note. A movable spleen may sometimes descend as low as the iliac fossa.