KIDNEY 122 ureter and drop into the bladder; in some cases, however, the stone, although small enough to enter the ureter, is too large safely to traverse the normal tube, or is arrested by some ab- normal stricture or valve. Clinicai, Notes.—1. On the Ureter in Rela- tion to Stone.—There are three narrow points in the normal ureter at which a stone is likely to be arrested. (1) At its upper end or just below this (4-7 cm.). (2) At the point where it crosses the iliac artery and rounds the brim of the pelvis. (Narrowed in three out of five cases, Kelly.) (3) Where the tube passes into the thick muscular wall of the bladder. At any one of these points a " migratory" calculus may be stopped; most often, however, the tube is blocked at the upper end (66 per cent, Morris), less frequently at the lower end (17'8 per cent), or at the pelvic brim (12'5 per cent). It is supposed that in many cases calculi have already passed along the ureter, and the damage caused by their rough crystalline surface has been followed by scarring and con- striction of the tube, and a stone small enough to pass the natural danger points is arrested at the stricture. The calculus may completely block the ureter, but it may only partially obstruct the passage, and at the level of the stone the wall becomes pouched to form a bed for it. The calculus may be found lying loose within the ureteric pouch, and may by further deposit increase in size. I have generallj' found acid stones in these pouches. The phosphatic calculi tend to fill and block the ureteric channel. At the lower end of the ureter a calculus, when impacted, may slightly bulge the bladder wall; but it sometimes projects through the ureteric opening into the vesical cavity, and can be seen with the cystoscope. 2. On the Stone.—Usuallj' a single stone, rounded, ovoid, or oblong in shape and of small size, is present; sometimes several are found. A considerable size may be reached by fresh deposits occurring, and a long sinuous calculus sometimes results. Stones projecting from the lower ureteric orifice often attain a remarkable shape, with a vesical cap, narrow neck, and thicker ureteric stem (Bishop's, Zuckerkandl's cases). At the upper end of the ureter they often resemble a nail with the head lying in the pelvis (Albarran). 3. On the Examination of the Ureter.— The means which are at the disposal of the prac- titioner for investigating the condition of the iiretcr are few but simple, and should never be neglected. Palpation of the abdominal Mall in the line of the ureter—a vertical line from the jiuiction of the inner and middle thirds of Poupart's ligament—should be systematically carried out. The spot where it crosses the pelvic brim, at the intersection of a horizontal line between the anterior iliac spines with a vertical one from the pubic spine (Tourneur), sometimes shows a point of special tenderness. If the abdominal walls are thin and the ureter enlarged the tube itself is stated by Fenger to be recognisable. I can only state that it is extremely difficult to find the ureter, unless it is tuberculous, even when the finger is introduced through a parietal woimd. Pain and intense desire to micturate are evoked by pressure on a diseased ureter. Kelly says : " It is not sufficiently appreciated that a very important section of the ureter may be explored from the rectum by the finger when the patient is in the knee-elbow position, in either sex as high as the iliac artery, and I have on several occasions detected stone in the ureter by this method. A stone may be overlooked by not carrying the finger as high as the perineum will permit. In the female the ureter can be palpated by vaginal examination, from its vesical termination as far as the broad ligament, and can be rolled beneath the finger." Symptoynatolofjy.—A stone may lie in the ureter without completely blocking it, and give rise to no symptoms (Albarran); but in the majority of patients in whom a calculus be- comes arrested in the ureter, there is a history of previous attacks of " renal" colic and other symptoms of renal stone, so that little doubt exists of the calculous nature of the case. Instead of a sudden relief from an attack of renal colic indicative of the " migrating " stone dropping into the bladder or falling back into the renal pelvis, the suffering of the patient whose calculus remains in the ureter only slowly declines, and the clinical course of the case will now be either acute or chronic, depending on the completeness of the obstruction and the state of the other kidney. The more acute course is that of calculous anuria, already discussed, and it only remains to consider the chronic cases where the block in the ureter is incomplete and the fellow-gland sufficiently healthy to maintain the secretion. These cases differ according to the situation of the calculus. If at the middle or upper part of the ureter, there is nothing which will serve to distinguish them before operation from calculus in the renal pelvis or calyces. The initial colic subsides gradually, and often recurs from time to time with less intensity than on the first occasion. The pain is some- times referred to one particular spot in the line of the ureter, and may be fixed and constant between the attacks of " renal" colic (Le Dentu), and in some cases a tender ureter may be discovered on palpation, which, if constant, has some localising value (White and Martin). In exceptional cases dilatation of the ureter above the impacted stone has been felt. In one case