LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 492 the patient to scream and remonstrate strenu- ously against the manipulation being repeated. The pain from perihepatitis is not usually diffused over the shoulder, as in the case in hepatic pain, but is frequently concentrated on the cervical aspect of the angle formed between the clavicle and the acromion process of the scapula; the patient will fi-equently press a linger firmly and deeply into the recess to relieve pain. Vomiting occurs especially when the stomach walls are in contact with the area of perihepatic inflammation. Hiccough is at times troublesome. The usual accompaniments of " feverishness," headache, foul tongue, etc., are less frequent in perihepatitis than in almost any other inflammatory state. The facial aspect in perihepatitis, as compared with hepatic ailments, is usually most marked. In lesion confined to the liver the patient is apt to despise his affection, can with difficulty be kept in bed or even indoors, and his aspects show little sign of suffering. When perihepatitis supervenes all this is changed, and the patient's drawn features and general condition of suffering indicate that the peritoneum is involved in the inflammation. In every case of perihepatitis the genesis of the ailment must be sought for. The condition is so frequently secondary to some diseased condition of the liver, peritoneum, pleura, pericardium, lungs, heart, and kidney, that each of these ought to be systematically ex- amined in turn. Well-nigh every affection of the liver may engender perihepatitis ; it may be but a part of a general peritonitis, acute or chronic; pleurisy and pneumonia may coexist, may precede, or may follow a perihepatitis ; peri- carditis is a frequent concomitant and a possible etiological factor. Regurgitant venous condi- tions due to cardiac incompetency or cardiac and pulmonary obstruction are always associated with mechanical congestion of the liver, a tense capsule, and a tendency to perihepatitis. Interstitial nephritic changes with albuminuria, ascites, etc., are frequently the antecedents of chronic peritonitis, and therefore of general perihepatitis. In every case of chronic peri- hepatitis kidney mischief is to be suspected and sought for. Of the signs and symptoms observ- able in perihepatitis none are more character- istic than the position assumed by the patient. Lying on the left side is attended by pain of a severe and characteristic nature. The patient describes the pain as of a sharp, dragging character, whilst at the same time the breathing and the heart rhythm are interfered with. Lying on the right side is also frequently accompanied by pain, and the patient finds most comfort on the back with the knees drawn up and the head and shoulders well supported by pillows. The friction sounds of perihepatitis differ to some extent from those heard in pleurisy. In recent pleurisy the friction note is high-pitched. continuous, and formed as it were by a number of short, rapid, consecutive crackles. The peritoneal rub is attended by a low note, is heard chiefly at the beginning of inspiration and at the end of expiration, and consists of a few slowly-emitted rubs. Prevalence of PerihejMtic Adhesions.—At 200 post-mortem observations made by the writer, 55 presented perihepatic adhesions in some form. The cases were not selected, the notes being taken from cases irrespective of the cause of death. Forty of the observations were made in Hong-Kong, and the remainder in London. In the Tropics, although the number observed was too small for positive opinion, Europeans pre- sented hepatic adhesions more frequently than in the case of natives. In 30 of the 55 cases there was no suspicion of hepatic disease during life. Perihepatitis ami Ascites. — General peri- hepatitis, apart from hepatic lesions and general peritonitis, is so rare an affection that there are but few data to go upon as to its immediate effects and sequelae. Such evidence as there is, however, would appear to indicate that perihepatitis, per se, is not directly pro- vocative of ascites. That perihepatic infiltrations and inflammations cause constrictions of the vessels at the gate of the liver to any marked extent, and therefore become a potent factor in developing ascites, is not in evidence. Were it so, it is not likely that the bile passages would so frequently escape constriction, while the portal vein, with which the bile ducts are so closely allied in position, would alone suffer. And as we know jaundice to be a rare symptom in perihepatitis, we have no right to assume that ascites is likely to follow perihepatic thickening. With the liver in a state of even advanced cirrhosis, ascites when it occurs is a late development, and one which post-mortem evidence shows is most frequently associated with chronic peritonitis. The supervention of general peritonitis (with perihepatitis) in a case of cirrhosis appears to be the state most favourable to develop ascitic complications. In cirrhosis of the liver, especially when associated with interstitial nephritis, perihepatitis is a frequent lesion. The adhesions formed in such a condition may be confined to the liver, spleen, and colon, or they may be part of a general chronic peritonitis so commonly met with in cirrhosis with ascites. The immediate part played by a cirrhotic liver in causing ascites is not yet settled, for it would appear that ascites seldom becomes pronounced until a general peritonitic change supervenes. But few cases of universal perihepatitis without general peri- tonitis have been observed, and as in these ascites has not been recorded, it is fair to as- sume that perihepatitis by itself is not a primary determining cause of ascites. The sequelce of perihepatitis may be classified