LABOUR, INJURIES DURING 267 anterior it is at once seen, and can often be sutured with the uterus in situ. If the tear is posterior, it is best to turn out the uterus and bring it well forward, so as to expose the torn surface. Suture the rent as in Csesarean sec- tion, using deep sutures of silk or silk-worm gut, two-thirds of an inch apart, passing through the peritoneum and muscles, and avoiding (accord- ing to present-day teaching) the decidual lining. Superficial sutures of catgut or silk to accurately adjust the peritoneum should then be passed between the deep sutures. If the torn surfaces are not very accurately united, pockets are left, and the suturing will do more harm than good. (See Fig. 62, p. 273.) There seems no good reason why the decidual lining should not be included in the deep sutures; for if it is not included, the decidua gapes, and allows the uterine secretions to reach the sutures, the danger of which is the main reason why it is advised that tlie lining membrane should not be touched. When the tear is fiuidal or anterior, and the uterus does not need to be turned out of the wound, the Trendelenburg position is advan- tageous, as it keeps the intestines out of the way. If gauze draining per vaginam is adopted after abdominal section, a strip of gauze should be passed from the abdomen and drawn down per vaginam to the vulvar ovitlet. In such cases the catheter should be used till the gauze is removed. 2. Laceration of the Cervix Uteri—(Infra- vaginal portion).—Slight unilateral tears (usu- ally on the left side) or bilateral, or even slight stellate tears, are almost universal in first labours, and, being so common, have proved valuable as probable indications of the previous passage from the uterus of some large body, such as a viable foetus. Such tears hardly ever produce symptoms, but will, of course, add to the risk of sepsis if the lochia should become infected. The more serious cervical rents will now be considered. Causation.—Rigidity of the cervical tissue is one cause, and this may be due to so-called spasm, the result of absence of the normal polarity, or to the presence of old cicatricial tissue, or to a fibroid in the cervical wall, or to malignant disease. The lacerations are usually longitudinal, and, as a rule, on the left side; but sometimes, in malignant disease, a complete ring of cervical tissue may be torn off, owing to its extreme friability. If these conditions are present, or if the rigidity is so marked that there is insuperable obstruction, the uterus is apt to give way in its lower zone, and the cervix might then only be torn second- arily. If the cervical rent be primary, it may extend outwards into the cellular tissue at the base of the broad ligament, upwards into the uterus, downwards into the vagina, or forwards into the bladder. Obstetrical operations, such as version with forcible extraction, or the use of forceps when the cervix is undilated, may also cause severe rupture of the cervix. Dangers.—If the rent is confined to the infra- vaginal part of the cervix the danger is small, though troublesome hBemorrhage from division, or partial division, of a branch of the uterine artery may ensue. The risk of subsequent sepsis is also increased. If the tear extends beyond the cervix, the risk is increased both as regards immediate htemorrhage and subsequent septic absorption through the wound, producing probably a septic parametritis. Subinvolution not infrequently follows cervical tears. Evidences of Cervical Laceration.—A tear of the cervix without extension into the uterine body does not produce shock. The evidences, if any, would be sudden and unexpected progress being made in a somewhat protracted labour, with subsequent greater rapidity. There might also be rather smart arterial hajmorrhage immediately after the birth of the child, often before the placenta is born; whilst the uterus is nicely retracted, showing that the haemorrhage is not coming from a relaxed placental site. Careful vaginal digital examination would reveal the cervical rent, and the hot blood could be felt coming from the apex of the tear. If a duck- bill speculum were used, and the cervix drawn down by a volsellum forceps, the exact nature and extent of the tear would be apparent. Prophylaxis. — A rigid cervix often relaxes after warm water injections, or after passing up a tampon of cotton-wool soaked in glycerine. This encourages glandular secretion, and makes the somewhat dry cervix moist. A physiologi- cally active organ is always in a state of relaxa- tion. Cocaine is said to enhance the eftect of the glycerine by allaying any local hyper- aesthesia; chloral in doses of thirty grains, repeated in an hour, also encourages relaxation. If a fibroid is present in the cervical tissue, it may be enucleated. If malignant disease be present, the question of Csesarean section must be considered. Cicatricial contractions may need division. Forceps should never be used during the first stage of labour merely with the object of shortening its duration. No obstet- rical operations should be attempted, and ergot should never be given until the cervix is fully dilated, or at all events dilatable. The first stage of labour should not be interfered with in normal cases, and the membranes should be left intact till the completion of their functions. Treatment.—There is no need to suture all tears as a matter of routine, unless they have extended into the broad ligament, or there be serious hsemorrhage. If the uterus remains firmly contracted, the hfemorrhage must be proceeding from some laceration below the re- tracted portion of the uterus; and the finger may at once detect the cervical tear, and the