LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS 341 less degree of hoarseness in the earlier stages than a smaller growth would produce if situated more anteriorly; otherwise the symptoms are much the same as those of chronic laryngitis. In marked cases there is dyspnoea on exertion. Etiology.—The disease is more common in men than in women, and usually occurs in middle life, from thirty to sixty years of age. It is frequently attributable to the same causes as catarrhal chronic laryngitis, and more particu- larly to excess in alcohol and in smoking. Still, cases of it do occur in which it is difficult to ascribe it to any of the ordinary causes of laryngitis, and it does not appear to be par- ticularly attributable to over-use of the voice. Examination.—The laryngoscope reveals an affection of the posterior ends of both vocal cords. Situated over the vocal process on one side is an even, elongated, pink or grey thicken- ing, with a slight central depression facing towards the opposite side. On the opposite vocal process is another hypertrophy, generally somewhat smaller, and either with a blunt summit or with a smaller central depression, which, on phonation, is seen to fit into the cup- like depression on the opposite side. It was formerly thought that the depression on one side was caused by the pressure of the hypertrophy of the opposite vocal process. It is more likely that a close examination would reveal a depres- sion on both sides, although more marked on the side with the larger hypertrophy, and that in both cases the dimpling in the centre is due to the closer attachment of the mucous mem- brane at that point to the subjacent cartilage. The hypertrophies are free from inflammation or ulceration; they are generally bathed in sticky mucus, which may stretch across in threads from one side to the other after the thickenings are pressed together on phonation, and then gape apart in respiration. Occasionally the hypertrophy is limited to one side, in which case the opposite processus vocalis may be indented from pressure. In some cases the rest of the larynx is normal, while in others there are the usual symptoms of chronic laryngitis. The movements of the cords are frequently somewhat impaired. Pathology.—The hypertrophies are found to be formed of a white or grey-white thickening, which can be stripped off in layers and is found to consist of epithelium thickened and under- going epidermoidal change. The subepithelial connective tissue is also thickened and sends upwards papilliform processes into the epithelial layei'. All degrees may be met with, from a slight elevation due to some heaped-up epithelial cells, to an outgrowth of some size. Inflamma- tory changes may be observed in the thickened subepithelial connective tissue, but there is always a distinct line of demarcation between epithelium and connective tissue. Diagnosis.—In some cases the movement of one of the cords may be affected and the sus- picion of malignant disease may be aroused. From epithelioma, and from other affections, pachydermia can be distinguished by the facts that it occurs in middle-aged males; by the history ; by the slow growth ; by the discovery of a similar condition—even if not so marked— on the opposite side; and by the crateriform depression. In doubtful cases the removal of a portion of the growth for microscopic examina- tion may be advisable, although only positive evidence of cancer would be of any value (see also p. 359). The diagnosis has sometimes to be made between simple pachydermia and that due to syphilis and tubercle. Prognosis.—The prognosis is favourable as regards life, and continued—if impaired—use of the voice can generally be promised. The disease is a very chronic one, and not very amenable to treatment. There is no clinical evidence that it is apt to assume a malignant character. Treatment.—The reader is referred to the sections on the treatment of chronic laryngitis —catarrhal and hypertrophic. The internal administration of iodide of potassium is gener- ally recommended. Sprays or laryngeal washes of salt water are frequently of use. Painting with nitrate of silver in solutions of increasing strengths here finds its most suitable field of application. Iodine has failed in the hands of Stoerk and Gottstein. Sulphur spas may be tried, and painting with lactic acid or salicylic acid in alcohol may be tried. Electrolysis is recommended by Chiari.i Attempts to extirpate the growth are liable to set up perichondritis. Blennorrhoea Under this title a particular condition has been described by Stoerk.^ It is an affection which is extremely rare, if not unknown, in this country, but appears to be not infrequently met with in Poland, Wallachia, and neighbour- ing parts of Central Europe. It is said to assume a form of chronic laryn- gitis, chiefly subglottic, with free secretion, and is sometimes followed by stenosis or adhesion between the anterior parts of the vocal cords. It may be accompanied by an analogous con- dition in the nose. It is possible that the condition—references to which are seldom met with in literature— has been confused with chronic subglottic laryn- gitis and with rhinoscleroma (see also p. 346). Larynx, Chronic Infective Diseases Laryngeal Phthisis . . . .342 Manner of Infection in . . .342 Symptoms . . ■ ■ ■ 342 1 ArcMnfiir Laryngol., Bd. ii. 1, 1894. 2 Klinik dcr Krankheiten dcs Kehlkopffn, Halfte 1, Stuttgart, 1876.