249 LABOUR, ACCIDENTAL COMPLICATIONS the bag into the vagina the delivery of the child can be rapidly completed. It is hardly necessary to add that in all cases where no pulsation can be felt in the cord, and where, after careful auscultation of the abdomen, no evidence of a living child can be obtained, the case must be treated according to the presentation found, and the fact that the cord is prolapsed may be entirely disregarded. (ii.) Knots of the Cord.—This complication is usually associated with abnormal length of the cord. Knots are primarily caused by the foetus slipping through a loop of the cord during the active movements that occur in the course of pregnancy. The knots may become tightened either during pregnancy or at the time of labour. Those which occur during pregnancy are usually more lightly knotted, and the constrictions pro- duced in Wharton's jelly are readily observed after expulsion of the placenta. Cases in which the knotting has occurred during labour are more readily unravelled, and leave no indentations. Occasionally a double knot is caused by the fojtus passing through two loops, either consecutively or with one movement, owing to the two loops being apposed. It rarely happens tliat the knots are drawn so tightly as to interfere with the circulation through the umbilical vessels, but in rare cases this may be a cause of intra-uterine death. (iii.) Coils of the Cord.—Coiling of the cord round the neck of the child is an exceedingly frequent occurrence, being observed as often as once in every ten cases. One or more coils may be found. When there is only a single coil there is little probability of any serious trouble arising in the course of parturition. Where the cord is coiled two or more times round the neck abnormal presentations may result, owing to the acquired shortening of the cord, resulting from tlie coiling interfering with the normal lie of the child. Again, the con- striction caused by the cord may lead to interference with the blood-supply to the foetus, and in this way asphyxia or even death of the foetus may result during delivery. Where coiling of the cord occurs round the limbs of the foetus it may give rise to marked constrictions of the limb, which may extend through the soft tissues down to the bone. Under these circumstances the limb presents a curious appearance at the time of birth. Cases have occurred where the distal portion of the limb has become entirely separated in consequence of this gradual constriction. Where several coils of the cord encircle the neck of the child, a further danger may arise during the expulsive stage of labour owing to the shortening of the cord causing premature detachment of the placenta. Severe haimor- rhage may then occur, both during labour and after the expulsion of the child. It is important in all cases of labour, as soon as the head is born, to pass the finger round the neck of the child to see whether this complication is present. Unless the finger is passed up to the neck, coiling of the cord may easily be overlooked, as the swollen labia and perineimi may conceal it from view. Where one or more coils are found, it is usually quite easy to draw the coil down so as to slacken the loop and slip one or more coils, as the case may be, over the head. In some cases where the child is being rapidly born there may not be time to draw- down the coil and slip it over the head, and it is necessary to slacken the loop and allow the shoulders to be delivered through the loop. In very exceptional cases it may be necessary to divide the cord with scissors and deliver the child forthwith. (iv.) Torsion of the Cord.—This may occur to an abnormal extent in the last few months of pregnancy, and may cause death of the foetus. It does not occur during labour, and cannot lead to any interference with the normal course of labour ; it is not, therefore, necessary to consider it in the present article. (v.) Rxipture of the Cord. — This accident occurs only in cases of precipitate labour, when the patient is suddenly and unexpectedly delivered in the upright posture. The effect on the child is twofold. In the first place, the child is deprived of the additional amount of blood which passes into its circulation, where ligation of the umbilical cord is delayed till ten minutes after the delivery of the child. Further- more, haemorrhage may occur from the torn end of the cord, though this is not usually serious, owing to the retraction of the walls of the vessels. The rupture usually occurs a short distance from the umbilicus. This accident rarely happens in cases of natural labour, and it can only occur when the cord is abnormally thinned or coiled round the foetus. To produce rupture of the cord rapid escape of the foetus is essential. It is not necessary for the placenta to be still adherent, as the con- traction of the cervix after expulsion of the foetus is quite sufficient to hold back the placenta, and in this way fix the opposite end of the cord. Where the cord is much twisted, and presents thinner parts in places, the liability of rupture occurring in consequence of some sudden strain is greatly increased. The reason why rupture more often occurs near the umbilicus is found in the fact that abnoi'mal torsion and thinning of the cord are more often found in this situation. Rupture occasionally takes place in the course of instrumental delivery and during the per- formance of version. As soon as the child is born, the torn ends should be ligatured so as to prevent further haemorrhage. Where it is not possible to ligature the cord as a whole, owing to the proximity of the rupture to the umbili- cus, the bleeding vessels should be picked up separately and tied.