525 LOCK-FINGER Lock-Fingfer.—An affection of the fingers, supposed to be due to a fibroma in the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, by which they are fixed in the attitude of flexion. Lockhart-Clarke's Column.—A column of nerve-cells lying on the mesial aspect of the posterior horn of the spinal cord. See Physiology, Nervous System {Spinal Cord, Structure). Locking' of Heads.—A complication of twin labours, due to the hitching of the chin of one twin (being born by the breech) over that of the other twin (coming by the head), or to the hitching of the one occiput under the other. See Labour in Multiple Pregnancy {Interlocked Twins). Lockjaw. See Tetanus. Lock-Spasm.—A firm contraction of the fingers upon any body, such as a pen, e.g. in writer's cramp. See Neuroses, Occupation ( Writing). LockWOOd'S Ligament.—The sus- pensory ligament of the eyeball. LockwOOd'S IVIetllOd. See Hernia {Radical Cure, Femoral Variety). Loco Deflector.—The bend put upon a soil-pipe at the foot of the house, so that the flow of water into the larger drain may not be checked; it is of importance in the proper drainage of a house. Loco Disease.—A disease of cattle and horses due to their eating the plants known as loco weed (poisonous leguminous plants), and characterised by staggering gait, emaciation, loss of appetite, etc. Locomotor Ataxia. See Tabes DoRSALis; see also Balneology {Balneo-Thera- peutics in Diseases of the Nervous System); Brain Cysts {Cystic Degeneration in Locomotor Ataxia) ; Deformities {Cerebral and Spinal Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxy); Fragilitas OssiUM; Joints, Diseases of {Associated with Lesions of the Nervous System); Osteo-Arthro- pathies {Osteopathies); Purpura {Symptomatic, Nervous); Ulcers and Ulceration {Perforating Ulcer of the Foot). LOCUIUS.—A small space, e.g. of a gland or cystic tumour. Locus.—A place ; a name given in Ana- tomy to various spots in such organs as the brain, e.g. the locus cinereus in the fourth ventricle, the locus perforatus {anticus or posti- cus) at the base of the brain, etc. The term locus minoris resistentice is given to that part of the body which from some cause is enfeebled and less able to resist the onslaughts of disease. Lodging-Houses. See also Ventila- tion AND Warming, etc.—A lodging-house in Sanitary Law is defined as " a house or part of a house let in lodgings or occupied by members of more than one family " ; the hygiene of such dwellings is regulated and enforced by the Public Health Act of 1875, by the Public Health Acts Amendment Act of 1890, by model by-laws and memorandum of the Local Govern- ment Board, and by the Public Health (Scotland) Act of 1897. Common lodging-houses must be registered ; they must be open to the inspection at any time of the Local Authority. A space of not less than 300 cubic feet for each adult living therein must be provided; the walls and ceiling must be limewashed twice a year (in April and October), and the occurrence of a case of infectious disease must be immediately reported to the Medical Officer of Health. Loebiscli's Formula.—if the last two figures of the specific gravity of the urine be multiplied by 2-2, the product indicates the number of grammes of solids in 1000 cc. of urine. Loeche-les-Bains. See Balneology {Switzerland, Indifferent Thermal Waters); Mineral Waters {Thermal). Loeffler'S Bacillus. See Diphtheria {Morbid Anatomy and Pathology); Post-mortem Methods {Bacteriological Investigations); Teeth {General Bacteriology of Mouth). Loeffleria is the name which has been given to a disease in which Loeffier's bacillus is present but in which diphtheritic symptoms are absent. Loeffler'S Blood-Serum Mix- ture.— A culture-medium, consisting of neutral meat-infusion bouillon containing 1 per cent, of glucose and three parts of blood-serum. Loch lei n's Diameter.—The length of a line drawn from the centre of the subpubic ligament to the antero-superior angle of the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Loewenthars Reaction. — The name given to the agglutination of spirochsete obermeieri by the blood-serum of a person suff'ering from relapsing fever. See Relapsing Fever. Logan in.—A glucoside got from the seeds and fruit of Strychnos nux vomica; it has the formula Cgg Hg^ Oj^, and when boiled with dilute sulphuric acid yields glucose and loganetin. Logo-. — In compound words logo- (Gr. Aoyos,a word) signifies relating to speech or words; thus logamnesia is word-deafness, logagnosia is word-blindness, logoneurosis is a neurotic affection associated with defect in speech, logoplegia is the loss of power of articulating words, and logorrhoea is morbid loquacity.