225 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED kyphotic or the rachitic type, so the treatment must be guided by the principles governing treatment in the kyphotic and the rachitic pelves respectively. The Osteomalacic Pelvis.—In this pelvis, as in the rickety pelvis, the deformity is due to softening of the bones, so that they yield to pressure and pulling. The conditions of its production differ from those of the rickety Fig. 39.—Osteomalacic pelvis. pelvis, in that it occurs in adults, in whom the muscles are stronger and more used than in rickety children; and that the softening is greater than in rickets. The consequence is that muscular action affects the shape of the pelvis more with osteomalacia than it does with rickets. The muscles pull out the pubes and ischia, and pull in the head of the femur. As soon as the head of the femur is within the line passing from the sacrum to the feet, the femoral pressure reacting to the body weight becomes upwards and inwards, instead of up- wards and outwards; and then it combines with the action of the muscles to crumple in the acetabula. Hence the pelvis becomes " rostrate," the two pubic bones running nearly parallel so as to project forwards like a beak. The acetabula are approximated to the sacro- iliac synchondrosis, so that the pelvic canal becomes somewhat the shape of a Y. The sacrum yields to the body weight, and is pressed down, as in rickets, but more ; the promontory is often so sunken that the fifth or even the fourth lumbar vertebra may come to lie in the plane of the pelvic brim. As in rickets, and for the same reason, the sacrum becomes con- vex from side to side, but more so ; the curve is so great as to appreciably narrow the bone. While the sacral promontory is pushed down, the tip of the sacrum is prevented from moving back by the sacro-sciatic ligaments; hence the sacrum becomes sharply curved from above downwards. The pull of the sacrum upon the ilium at the synchondrosis, combined with the upward and inward pressure of the femur upon the acetabulum, crumples up the ilium until the iliac fossa becomes like a gutter. The sacrum and ilium may get separated at the VOL. v synchondrosis. When the disease is advanced the bones become so soft that the patient cannot stand or walk, but lies or crouches in various attitudes; hence ditferent distributions of pressure in different patients, and correspond- ing minor differences in the shape of different osteomalacic pelves. Although all osteomalacic pelves conform to the same general type, yet they do not exactly resemble each the others, as do pelves of the Naegele or the Robert type. Osteomalacia begins during pregnancy or lactation. There is severe pain, especially on movement. The spine and ribs are soft as well as the pelvis ; from this they become bent, and the capacity of the chest is diminished. Hence the lungs cannot properly expand, and the patient suffers from cough, shortness of breath, suffocative attacks, and muscular cramp. There is an excessive excretion of phosphates in the urine. When the disease has been cured, this ceases. The cure of this disease is by removal of the ovaries. We know not how this acts, but the fact is established. The disease is rare in England ; endemic in certain parts of Europe. The diagnostic points of osteomalacia while it is progressing are : (a) the tenderness; (b) the softness of the bones. The pelvic deformity is so extreme that measurement is not needed to detect it. Obstetrically the osteomalacic pelvis is unique among contracted pelves in this, that it has been found possible, so soft may the bones be, to force the pelvis open with a hand to a degree sufficient to allow a living child to pass. Rut it is hardly worth while to do this, because the patient must, for her cure, have her abdomen opened. The best treatment is to perfoi-m Csesarean section, and then remove the body of the uterus and the ovaries. This done, the patient's pains will cease, the phosphates in her urine diminish, and the bones will get hard. The deformity will never be removed. There is a rare form of contracted pelvis known as the pseudo-osfeomalacic rickety j^elvis. FIQ. 40.—Pseudo-osteomalacic rickety pelvis. (After Naegel6. The shape of this pelvis is like that of the osteo- malacic pelvis (only not to the same extreme degree)—that is, the acetabula are crumpled in so as to make the pelvic cavity Y-shaped, 15