LABOUR, PHYSIOLOGY OF 160 the dimensions of each plane are determined by measuring the antero-posterior, the trans- verse, and oblique diameters. The antero-posterior or conjugate diameter at fiG. 9.—Vertical mesial section ot bony pelvis, showing planes at which measurements are taken (1, 2, 3), and angles of plane of brim 60° and outlet 11°. the brim extends from the upper border of the symphysis pubis to the sacral promontory, and measures 4 inches ; at the second plane (cavity) it measures 4J inches ; and at the outlet, with the tip of the coccyx firmly pushed back, it is 5 inches in length. The transverse diameter of the brim is measured at the widest distance between the iliac bones, and measures 5 inches. In the cavity it is 4| inches, and at the outlet, from one ischial tuber to the other, its dimension is 4 inches. The two oblique diameters of the brim are taken from the sacro-iliac joint on one side to the ilio-pectineal eminence on the opposite side, and are called right and left respectively, according to the joint from which they are taken. They measure 4J inches. In the cavity and at the outlet they are measured parallel to those at the brim, and are of the same length, viz., 4^- inches. In considering the diameters of the pelvis as a whole (see table), it will be noted that the conjugate from above downwards is increased by an inch, the transverse is decreased by an inch, while the obliques remain the same throughout. Table Conjugate. Oblique. Transverse. Brim . . 4 4| 5 Cavity . . 4i 4| 4J Outlet . . o" 4| 4 Another internal diameter which is of much practical value remains to be described, viz., the diagonal conjugate. It is measured from the lower border of the symphysis pubis to the sacral promontory, and is 4| inches. It is of importance as being a measurement which can be readily taken by the examining finger, and from which by the subtraction of three-quarters of an inch the length of the conjugate of the brim (conjugata vera) can be estimated. In a general description of the normal pelvis the brim is considered as heart-shaped. The cavity, as the diameters show, is circular, while the outlet is diamond-shaped. In the erect posture the plane of the pelvic brim forms an angle of 60° with the horizon, the sacral promontory is about 3^ inches higher than the upper border of the symphysis pubis. Without the soft parts the plane of the outlet forms an angle of 11° with the horizon ; the tip of the coccyx being about half an inch higher than the lower border of the symphysis pubis. With the soft parts in situ the plane of the outlet is very materially changed. In the measurement of the pelvis there are three external diameters which are of practical importance :—The external conjugate from the spine of the last lumbar vertebra to the upper border of the symphysis; it is 7| inches, and is of value in estimating the true conjugate. The interspinous diameter from one anterior superior iliac spine to the other (9J inches), and the intercristal, between the widest portion of the iliac crests (10| inches), are of more value as regards their comparison with each other than in the estimation of their actual length. Under normal conditions the interspinous should be at least an inch less than the intercristal; any approximation between them is indicative of flattening of the iliac bones, a condition usually met with in rachitic pelvic deformity (see p. 215). The soft structures within the pelvis modify to a greater or less extent its various diameters ; this is most evident at the outlet, which is filled by the pelvic floor. The pelvic floor may be described as a thick, compact, musculo-mem- branous diaphragm traversed by three slit-like canals—the vagina, rectum, and urethra. The former, which mainly is concerned in parturi- tion, traverses the floor in the erect female at an angle of 60° to the horizon, or, in other words, parallel with the plane of the pelvic brim. On its external or skin aspect the pelvic floor bulges in a convex manner beyond the plane of the bony outlet to the extent of nearly 3 cm.; this is described as the pelvic floor "projection" (Fig. 8). For descriptive purposes the floor may be considered as composed of two segments, divided from one another by the transverse vaginal slit, and known respectively as the anterior or pubic segment and the posterior or sacral segment. The former consists of the anterior vaginal wall.