LABOUR, OPERATIONS—EMBRYOTOMY 293 becomes obvious that the ideal operation must be directed towards the breaking-up and loosen- ing of the basic bones. With this view, Fabbri of Bologna proposed the use of a pair of bone- pliers fashioned like a parrot's beak, which he described as a tenaglia, and which is intended to gouge out fragments of the sphenoid and neighbouring bones. Hubert of Louvain fol- lowed a procedure which he described at first as Sphenotresia, and afterwards Transforation. It was effected by means of an instrument con- sisting of a long rod with a bulbous point that could be screwed through the vault and on into the base of the skull, and of a blade, resembling a solid lever, to be passed round the head. The /« SCALE the bones — the ethmoid, the sphenoid, the petrous portion of the temporal or basilar portions of the occiput—and such a complete dissolution of the base effected as to allow of easy collapse and compression of all the skull. Further, crushing the head is brought about, when it becomes necessary, by applying the tractor blade for the purpose of immediate delivery. This fits to the perforating part of the instrument as the fenestrated blade of the cranioclast fits its solid blade, and gives to the basilyst all the additional value of the cranioclast as an extractor (see Figs. 5 and 6). III. Extraction.—If the comminuted the expulsion head is may be Fig. 6.—The basilyst with traction blade adapted. blade and rod can be fixed close to their handles, and are so constructed that the point of the screw, when it has pierced the floor of the skull, is received into a depression close to the tip of the blade. The Basiotribe of Tarnier is of some- what similar construction, but is provided with two blades, so that if the compression from one side prove insufficient, the second blade can be applied to crush the head from the opposite direction. The Basilyst, which we have seen to produce most satisfactorily the necessary aper- ture in the cranial vault, was contrived especially to be used for tearing up and dissolving the basis cranii. When the point has been screwed into any part of the base, and the handles com- pressed, the bones are not merely perforated, but torn apart. The perforation and dilacera- tion may be applied, if need be, to several of effectively left for a time to the natural efforts. The soft parts between head and pelvis, being relieved of pressure, recover their circu- lation, and allow of the more easy tran- sit. The uterus, after retracting, resumes its contrac- tions more vigor- ously, and if it succeeds in expel- ling its contents, as it is now free to do, there is less risk of trouble in the third stage and sub- sequently. In most instances the practitioner finds it desirable or necessary to pro- ceed to the extrac- tion of the mutil- ated infant. At one time hooks, blunt or sharp, single or double, were applied inside the skull or outside the scalp, to get purchase for traction. The hooking out of the foetus is now almost obsolete. The cephalotribe, powerful as a crusher, fails as an extractor, for it is apt to slip, and it is difficult with it to adapt the head to the pelvic diameters. The cranioclast or the basilyst-tractor has the ad- vantage of introducing only the one (fenes- trated) blade into the cavity of the uterus; the other blade plays its part entirely within the ci'anium. They allow of the adaptation of the head to the configuration of the pelvis in all its planes, and in dragging on the occiput tend to elongate the head in sugar-loaf fashion. In extracting, the operator (1) will see that he has taken a secure hold of the head, and it will be more satisfactorily done if the outer blade be placed over the hind-head. (2) He will see that