273 LABOUK, INJURIES DURING buried sufficiently deeply at its first insertion to include the muscle of the divided sphincter (see Fig. 59, p. 269), for then, when tied, it accurately draws the sphincter forwards, so that the divided strands are in close contact, and at the same time it affords great support to the catgut rectal sutures already passed. As a rule, it should be inserted before the rectal catgut sutures are passed, but should not be tied till afterwards. 6. Injuries to the Pelvic Articulations.— Causation.—The pelvic joints are the sacro- iliac, the pubic, and the sacro-coccygeal. They are all imited by cartilage, and are rendered more mobile during pregnancy owing to soften- ing and hypertrophy of the cartilage, with increased development of the existing synovial pouches. The result is that during labour there is a yielding of the bones imited by these joints, and a certain definite though inconsiderable gliding motion is permitted. This has been proved by Walcher, Pinzani, and others, and is the raison d'etre of "Walcher's position" in difficult labour. The joints are unduly strained if there is any marked disproportion between the pelvis and the passenger. The pubic joint is necessarily divided into symphysiotomy, but VOL. V unites promptly with fibrous union, unless antiseptics have broken down, when suppura- tion and destruction of the cartilage would ensue, and bony union eventually would take place. In this same operation the sacro-iliac joints are liable to be seri- ously injured if, at the moment of division of the inter-pubic cartilage, the legs are unsupported and allowed to fall outwards. The sacro-coccy- geal joint is rarely injured, for it allows of very free movement. If, however, there has been previous dis- location and fixation of the joint, and especially if the coccygeal apex points forward, difficulty at the end of the second stage may arise, and fracture at the joint has been known to take place. More rarely dislocation of the coccyx has been known to occur dur- ing labour, the point of the coccyx then pointing backwards. Evidences of Injuries to the Pelvic Articulations.—The main evidence of serious injury to one of the pelvic joints is dyskinesia — difficulty in walking—associated with local pain and tenderness. If the patient is not seen till some weeks after labour, the local pain and tenderness will have passed off, and no evidence may be left except the dyskinesia. To ex- amine the pubic joint let the patient be placed on her back. A thumb placed in the vagina and applied to the back of the symphysis, whilst the other fingers of the same hand are over the joint, will enable intra-pubic mobility or tenderness to be deter- mined, especially if one leg is pas- sively moved up and down by an assistant. To examine the sacro-iliac joint, the patient should stand, supporting herself against a fixed point, and the physician should apply his ear to each joint in succession, whilst the patient flexes and extends the thigh of the same side. If there is much movement in the joint some creaking or crackling will be heard. In all such cases the effect of a tight girth round the pelvis—a large towel, for instance—is almost diagnostic; for the patient, who just before wobbled about, unable to walk without support, can now walk very fairly across the room, experiencing great support and relief. If the sacro-coccygeal joint is affected, an examina- tion with one finger in the rectum, and the thumb outside, will enable the physician to grasp the bone, and judge at once of its mobility, its relations, and the tenderness of its joint. The main symptoms, at first, if the joint is inflamed, are coccygodynia (painful sitting), with some dyschezia (painful defaecation), and often pain when coughing or sneezing, owing to Fig. 62.—a, faulty method of suture, falling short of the bottom of wound and not catching all the muscle-ends : a, before tying; b, after tying. The latter figure shows dead space at the bottom of wound after tying; perineal body only partially restored. B, suture improperly placed : a, before tying ; 6, after tying. The suture a has too little lateral sweep, and it does not include the ends of all the retracted muscle-flbres at the sides of the wound ; 6 shows the result, the pelvic floor being imperfectly restored. (Norris.) Fig. 63.—Shows full sweep of a properly placed suture : a, before tying; 6, after tying. Even though the tear runs in different planes at different depths, the muscle-ends are held in apposition throughout the entire depth of the wound. (Norris.)