165 LABOUR, STAGES AND DURATION the borders of the original os externum alone. In multiparse, on the other hand, the uterine orifice is surrounded by blunt, comparatively thick edges, formed by the portion of the practically continuous, the cervix is said to be fully dilated. The final phenomenon of the first stage is the rupture of the membranes. This event, which is due to the loss of support ex- perienced by the membranes owing to the retraction of the cervical walls, usu- ally synchronises with the full dilatation of the OS. In certain cases, however, owing to a failure of adaptation between the presenting part and the lower uterine segment, the membranes at an early period in the first stage have to with- stand the full force of the uterine con- tractions, transmitted to them through the liquor amnii, and consequently rup- ture almost at once. In such cases all the liquor amnii escapes with a rush, an occurrence which never happens under normal circumstances, when there is due adaptation between the presenting parts and the lower uterine segment. In these cases, only the liquor amnii in front of the head escapes, as the re- mainder is dammed up by the present- FlG. 11.—Diagratnmatic representation of the manner in which the cervix is mg part. taken up in the case of a primipara. CR, contraction ring. (Schroeder.) OE, OS externum ; 01, os internum cervical wall which has not been taken iip, as well as by the margin of the os externum. As soon as the taking up of the cervix is complete, the next step is the dilatation of the uterine orifice. This is brought about by the downward pressure of the advancing ovum Constitutional Symptoms.—The con- stitutional symptoms of the first stage are very slight. At the commencement the patient in many cases pursues her ordinary occupations, save when a pain occurs. As the stage advances, the pains become more fre- quent and of longer duration. The pulse and temperature are as a rule unaff'ected, save for a slight increase in frequency in the rate of the former during a pain. Gastric disturbance associated with vomiting is of common occurrence, especially to- wards the end of the stage. Diagnosis.—As a rule, it is easy to determine the onset of the first stage. All the symptoms which have been given under the premonitory stage are present, but are more marked. The painless contractions of the uterus dis- appear and are replaced by painful con- tractions. The latter can be recognised by laying the hand flat upon the abdomen of the patient, and determining the fact that the onset of a pain is associated with an easily perceptible hardening of the uterine muscle. The character of the pains serves to distinguish between the first and the second stage, even without going into the determination of the condi- fIG. 12.—Diagrammatic representation of the manner in which the cervix is tion of the Cervix and of the membranes, taken up in the case of a multipara. OE, os externum ; 01, os internum ; CR, contraction ring. (Schroeder.) and by the gradual retraction upwards of the remainder of the cervix. As soon as this retraction is so complete that all traces of cervical projection have disappeared, and the vaginal and uterine cavities have become In the first stage the pains are consti- tuted solely by involuntary contractions of the uterine muscle fibres; in the second stage, as will be seen, the patient accompanies each uterine contraction by voluntary contractions of the abdominal muscles—bearing down, as it is termed. (For Management, see p. 193.)