202 LABOUE, MANAGEMENT OF the head is delayed in the pelvic cavity or arrested above the brim. When the head is arrested in the pelvic cavity the " Prague method " is the simplest and quickest method. With the patient lying preferably on her back, the left hand is passed into the vagina and passed up over the back of the child, and the first and second fingers are hooked over the clavicles (Fig. 35). The limbs of the child are wrapped in a cloth and grasped by the right hand. Carry the legs forward over the mother's abdomen as far as possible, and by the joint pulling of the two hands pull the neck and shoulders forward. The head is thus made to roll out flexed from behind the perineum. The left hand pulls the shoulders towards the an- terior parts, and the pressure of the symphysis at the same time presses on the occiput. Thus the head is flexed and is in the best position for delivery. If the head is arrested above the brim, delivery can be effected by a " manoeuvre which combines jaw trac- tion and pulling on the shoulder, or by forceps. The former method is the best, as there need be no unneces- sary delay. Jaw traction is especially suited for cases of arrest of the head above the brim, but it can also be used if the delay is in the pelvic cavity; it is the most powerful as well as the quickest method of delivery. The practitioner, standing on the patient's right side, passes the left hand Tj-^ »T, J . • J iiito the vagina in FIO. 36. — Method of jaw and 7 shoulder traction for delivery SUCh a way that the Honor^'""- ^"^"'^ rides upon the arm (Fig. 36). The two fingers are passed into the child's mouth as far back as possible (this is to lessen the risk of fracture of the jaw). The right hand is placed over the shoulders. The fingers on the jaw prevent the head extend- ing, whilst delivery is accomplished by traction on the shoulders and jaw. If the resulting flexion of the head is not sufficient, it can be increased by placing the first and third fingers of the left hand over the clavicles, and the second finger pressing the occiput forwards. Pressure on the abdomen is of assistance in hurrying up labour. When the head is above the brim the traction should be first made backwards and downwards, and when in the pelvic cavity the direction is changed to forwards, at the same time carrying the body of the child well over the mother's abdomen. Forceps to the after-coming head are certainly able to deliver the child, but they are slow. If the combined jaw and shoulder traction does not succeed, do not hesitate to at once apply forceps. Forceps should always be ready for use in cases whei'e there is any possibility of difficulty in the birth of the head. If forceps are used they must be locked under the body of the child, and traction applied in the axis of the pelvis. If the pulsations in the cord have ceased, and there is difficulty in extracting the head, it is best to use the perforator (for method, see "Labour, Operations"), as it is less apt to damage the maternal parts than prolonged pulling. Difficult Breech Cases. — In a certain number of cases accidental complications arise which make it necessary to assist the delivery of the breech. In cases with a very large child, or a very small pelvis, or if the pains are so feeble there is great delay in the labour, and assistance is necessary both for the sake of the mother, to save her from exhaustion due to want of food, prolonged pain, and anxiety, and for the child, whose life may be endangered from pressure on the cord. Also, if there is prolapse of a loop of cord during the second stage of labour, the cord will have lost the protection the bent-up legs would have given it, and, therefore, it is as well to bring down a leg so that delivery can be quickly accomplished if the pulsations are evidently becoming arrested. It should never be forgotten that no interference is justifiable before dilatation of the os. Digital Pulling.—In cases where delay is due simply to weakness of the pains, steady pulling will accomplish delivery. Pass up the right forefinger over the anterior groin between the abdomen and thigh, and during a pain pull on the anterior groin. Whenever the breech is low enough, pass in the left hand and put two fingers into the posterior groin; then when- ever a pain comes, pull as strongly as possible. As the breech emerges, pull most on the posterior hip, as it has the farthest way to come. This movement is very useful, but is very tiring to the operator's fingers (often setting up cramp). If the pelvis is small or the child too big, there are several methods recommended to assist delivery, e.g. bringing down a leg, or to deliver the breech by traction with the fillet, blunt hook, or forceps. Method of Bringing down a Leg.—It is best to anaesthetise the patient. Then pass into the vagina the hand that will lie most easily flat on