436 LIVER, DISEASES OF duce a pendulous state of the abdomen. Though undoubtedly a very important factor, diminu- tion of the intra-abdominal pressure is probably not of itself sufficient to induce complete hepa- toptosis. (2) Failure in the Suspensory Apparatus of the Liver.—This is probably somewhat sub- ordinate in importance to diminished intra- abdominal pressure, but is a necessary condition to the production of hepatoptosis. The liver is suspended in its place by the following means:—(a) By the Suspensory and Coronary Ligaments.—It has been thought that they may be congenitally absent or deficient; this may be so in a few isolated instances, but it is so exceptional an occurrence that it cannot be maintained that congenital abnormalities in these peritoneal folds have any real bearing on the production of movable liver. It is much more probable that relaxation of these ligaments is acquired and due to nutritional defects, such as may well be responsible for atony of the abdominal parietes. It has been suggested that fatty and generative changes are induced in the ligaments. (h) By the Inferior Vena Cava.— Faure has laid great stress on the importance of the inferior vena cava in keeping the liver in contact with the diaphragm. Probably de- fective general nutrition will lead to relaxation of its controlling influence in the same way as in the case of the suspensory ligaments. The immediate cause of hepatoptosis may be found in sudden injuries or strains, the displace- ment then resembling a traumatic dislocation; in other cases repeated efforts, such as coughing, vomiting, sneezing, or prolonged straining, have been invoked. In many cases no definite de- termining cause is forthcoming. Forms of Hepatoptosis.—The liver is not simply displaced downwards; its shape is con- siderably modified, and it frequently becomes rotated on one or more of its axes. The liver settles down and becomes flattened out so as to lie like an apron over the intestines ; the superior or diaphragmatic surface tends to become anterior, and the inferior surface to become posterior. The organ hangs down from its attachment to the inferior vena cava, and is so thinned and elongated that it may reach the right iliac fossa. The liver is thus anteverted or, in other words, rotated forwards on its transverse axis, and its long axis becomes vertical instead of oblique. Frequently the liver is in addition rotated on its antero-posterior axis. From the fact that the most fixed point of the liver is its attach- ment to the inferior vena cava, the right lobe, which is the heavier as well as the more movable, descends more freely than the left lobe, which may be the only part left in contact with the diaphragm. The position of the liver thus becomes oblique, the right lobe being tilted downwards and depressed. A further change may be met with, viz., rota- tion of the liver on its long or vertical axis, so that the anterior surface looks towards the right and the posterior surface to the left; in rare instances the liver is said to be rotated in the opposite direction, so that the anterior surfaces face towards the left and the posterior towards the right. There are thus at least three forms of movable liver. The flattened and elongated liver frequently shows a line of constriction running transversely across its anterior surface. This is probably due to the pressure exerted by the costal margin and tight-lacing. The line of constriction may become so thin as to contain little but blood- vessels between the two layers of somewhat thickened peritoneum. A constriction lobe is then found attached to the rest of the liver by a kind of tendinous hinge. Generally speaking, the liver itself is healthy, but in a certain number of instances the exist- ence of concomitant disease, such as gall-stones or cirrhosis, has been recorded. Occasionally a movable liver contracts adhe- sions, and becomes fixed in an abnormal part of the abdomen ; in consequence it cannot be replaced in the normal position, and presents great difficulties in the way of a correct diagnosis. Physical Signs. — There is an abdominal tumour which is displaceable, and can be re- turned to the normal position of the liver. It resembles the liver in outline, size, and in descending on respiration, while examination of the normal situation of the liver shows that the organ is partially or entirely absent. The normal liver dulness is replaced by resonance, and the right hypochondrium is sunken. When the organ is very freely movable, it not only moves with change of posture, descending when the patient sits up, and tumbling to the left when he is turned on that side, but it can be rotated on its vertical axis, an exaggeration of the displacement induced by a dilated stomach or colon under ordinary conditions of hepatic stability. The relaxed condition of the ab- dominal walls often renders the liver visible as a rounded tumour on the right side, about the level of the umbilicus, extending down into the right iliac fossa and approaching the pelvis. Other forms of visceroptosis, such as a floating kidney, displaced stomach or uterus, etc., may be present. Sy7npt07ns.—'Yhe onset is generally insidious and attracts no attention; in a few instances it is suddenly manifested by pain, like that of biliary colic, or a feeling of something giving way, and suggests traumatic dislocation. Cases of hepatoptosis sometimes present no symptoms, and the condition is only discovered accidentally. On the other hand, patients may complain of one or more of the following symptom groups:—