345 LARYNX, CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES ever, curetting soft tissue and iilcerated surfaces, together with the removal by means of the double curette of infiltrations, seem to have given the best results—more particularly when these operations were followed by applications of lactic acid. In the case of tubercular tumours without infiltration the removal of the neoplasm is in- dicated, and must be carried out by one of the methods discussed in another portion of this work. Lupus of the Larynx As lupus is in a sense a form of tuberculosis, the reader may pertinently ask why it is dis- cussed under a separate heading. The reply lies in the clinical differences which exist between what we may term true tuberculosis and the form known as lupus. It was formerly held that lupus of the larynx is usually secondary to lupus of the skin of the face. My own experience has shown me that it is by no means uncommon to find the affection confined to the mucous membrane of the nose and throat, while sometimes it develops only in the larynx. The disease certainly attacks by preference young females, but it may occur both in boys and in men of early middle age. Lupus of the larynx produces extremely slight symptoms, and, indeed, may cause none unless the infiltration be so situated as to interfere with phonation, or much more rarely, respira- tion. The part most frequently affected is the epi- glottis, but the characteristic infiltration may appear on other parts as well, e.g. the ary- epiglottic folds, posterior wall, ventricular bands, and true cords. On examination the parts affected are seen to be thickened and nodular. Individual nodules vary in size from a pin-head to several times as large; they are situated close together, so that the whole affected area is studded with them. It is stated by most authors that after a time slow ulceration sets in followed by cicatrisation, and that sometimes fresh nodules appear on the surface of such cicatrices. My own impression is that it is extremely doubtful whether there is in lupus of mucous membranes any tendency towards breaking down by breach of surface. If the part be so situated as to be exposed to injury, then of course infection and surface ulceration may result. The diagnosis is not as a rule difficult. The nodular character of the infiltration (which is usually of a bright red colour), the absence of any pronounced tendency to ulceration, and the painless, slow course are more or less pathogno- monic. I ; The prognosis of this affection is somewhat uncertain. While some cases seem to be readily checked for a time at least, or even cured, by I general and local treatment, others are most obstinate. The course of the malady is always a slow one, but gradually it may lead to loss of voice and even to dyspnoea. The chief indication for treatment is to remove the diseased tissue or destroy it with the electric cautery. For the former purpose the instru- ments already referred to in discussing laryngeal phthisis may be employed. The cautery, how- ever, sometimes acts beneficially, not only upon the part burned, but upon surrounding nodules. Lactic acid, too, I have found very serviceable. Together with local remedies general treatment must be prescribed. Fresh air, milk, arsenic, and cod-liver oil are specially indicated. I am not sure that in obstinate cases of laryn- geal lupus it might not be justifiable to resort to Koch's original tuberculin. In one of my cases treated by this method rapid cure resulted, although a considerable degree of laryngeal stenosis resulted, and this had to be treated by dilatation. Syphilis op the Larynx The larynx is more commonly affected by acquired than by inherited syphilis, and it has been shown by statistics that syphilitic males are more prone to be attacked than females. Clinical Feat%bres.—As in other parts, so in the larynx, the disease may appear in many forms. Syphilitic catarrh, while commonly an early symptom, may recur at later periods throughout the disease. The appearances are rarely dis- tinctive, although sometimes there is a patchy redness which is highly suggestive. Much more characteristic is the presence of mucous patches, which appear as whitish areas on various parts of the larynx, and may result in superficial ulceration. Veiy rarely true condylomata may be found in the larynx, and Gerhardt quotes a case observed by Heymann in which they were so numerous as to cause marked dyspnoea. As a rule, these earlier manifestations give rise only to huskiness and some local discomfort. Gummata frequently occur in the larynx, but as a general rule they are not observed until ulceration has set in. Three forms are usually described, viz. : (1) relatively large rounded growths ; (2) groups of small nodules ; (3) diffuse infiltration. They cause symptoms in proportion to their size and situation. Commonly they tend to break down rapidly and give rise to deep ulceration. The margins of the ulcer are generally raised, while the floor is of a whitish colour owing to its being covered with detritus. The mucosa immediately suiTOunding it is red and swollen. These tertiary ulcers have a great tendency to spread both in width and in depth. The epiglottis is often attacked, and frequently destruction of the whole, or at least of a large portion, of