LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS 337 tilages, unless the violence is directly anterior and the vertebral column is immovable. Hence these accidents are nearly always the result of direct violence, and most commonly occur when the patient is lying on his back. They are therefore apt to be met with when people fall in the streets and carriage-wheels pass over the front of the neck. A case has been recorded (Mackenzie) ^ in an acrobat who was in the habit of lying flat on his back, while another gymnast jumped on his neck. In garrotting the larynx is often fractured, not by pressure against the vertebral column, but by lateral compression of the wings of the thyroid car- tilage. It occurs in the same manner in hang- ing. In almost all cases these accidents have originated from some form of direct violence. The only exceptions are three or four cases of fractured hyoid bone in which the injury has been due to muscular action. Ossification of the cartilages will render the cartilage more brittle and liable to break under the influence of violence. Symptoms.—The symptoms produced by these injuries are local pain and tenderness, swelling of the surrounding parts, and more or less interference with respiration, articulation, mas- tication, and deglutition. On manipulation there will be found displacement, mobility of the fragments, and crepitus. It is important, in connection with this, to bear in mind that even when the normal larynx is moved from side to side over the cervical spine a sort of crepitus is often felt. Overriding of the frac- tured edges will give rise to a perceptible deformity; but, needless to say, in many cases the recognition of these signs will be impossible. Laryngoscopic examination may reveal swell- ing, congestion, or haemorrhage into the larynx, and would not only prove useful in diagnosis, but might also be of assistance in giving warn- ing as to the amount of interference with respiration, and so indicate the necessity for an early tracheotomy. Emphysema of the neck is likely to super- vene, and the air will not only distend the cellular tissue of the neck, but may extend to the thorax, back, arms, and abdomen. Prognosis.—Fractures of the laryngeal car- tilages are attended with fatal consequences in a large proportion of recorded cases. The recorded cases of fracture of the larynx show a mortality of from 76 to 80 per cent. Fracture of the tliyroid cartilage is a more serious acci- dent than fracture of the hyoid bone, while fracture of the cricoid cartilage appears to have been fatal in every recorded case. Statistics also show that the prognosis is very much more grave when two of these cartilages" are injured at the same time ; and the same fact has been observed when there has been accompanying fracture of the lower jaw. 1 The Throoi and Nose, vol. i., 1880, p. 402. VOL. V Still, it is somewhat doubtful if these injuries are always of such a serious nature as statistics would tend to show. In many cases the fracture may pass unrecognised during the lifetime of the patient. Arbuthnot Lane,^ in 1885, reported that he had found evidence of old fractures of the hyoid bone or laryngeal cartilages in 9 out of 100 bodies which he had examined in the dissecting room; and, indeed, in one instance, there was even a healed fracture of the cricoid cartilage. Besides, among the cases included in the tables of various writers, there are many in which death has been caused by suicide or by homicide, and thus the mortality rate is con- siderably increased. Treatment.—^The chief danger lies in the interference with respiration. If this be met by an early performance of tracheotomy, there is no reason why a much larger proportion of patients should not recover than has hitherto been the case. Some writers recommend that a tracheotomy should be done in all cases, and that even where the diagnosis is not quite certain the operation should nevertheless be carried out. It is cer- tainly well not to allow the onset of suffocation to be the indication for performing tracheotomy. A fatal attack of dyspnoea may occur suddenly in any case, so that no patient should be left beyond the reach of an immediate tracheotomy. It has been suggested that O'Dwyer's method of intubation {vide vol. iv. p. 554) might find a suitable field of usefulness in these cases; but when the cartilages are much crushed it would probably be safer to lay open the whole larynx, after a preliminary tracheotomy, and endeavour to replace the fragments in their proper position before inserting an intubation tube to act as an internal splint. Dislocations of the Larynx Intralaryngeal dislocations are very rare. One or both of the arytenoid cartilages are sometimes dislocated downwards and forwards, or one may be displaced inwards. The symptoms are seldom prominent, and the condition is frequently only encountered accidentally when making a laryngoscopic ex- amination. Foreign Bodies in the Larynx Various foreign bodies not infrequently obtain entry to the larynx, and their presence there is always fraught with great danger and some- times with alarming symptoms. In a few cases, curiously enough, they may, for a time at least, give rise to very little distress. It is difficult to give a complete study of the question of foreign bodies with reference to the larynx only, as they not infrequently pass from the larynx to the trachea, or lower down; and, 1 Path. Soc. Trans., vol. xxvi., 1885, pp. 82-85. 22