SCLEROSIS 376 LATERAL Lateral Sclerosis. See Paralysis {Primary Lateral Sclerosis, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis). Lateral Sinus. See Brain, Physiology OF (Venous Circulation); Brain, Surgery of {Abscess, Diagnosis, Lateral Sinus Phlebitis). Lateral Ventricles. See Brain, Physi- ology OF {Lymphatic Circulation); Hydro- cephalus {Internal); Meningitis, Tuberculous AND Posterior Basic {Treatment, Drainage of Ventricles). Late Rickets.—Rickets developing after the third year but usually before puberty. See Rickets {Late Rickets). Lateritious Deposit.—The "brick- dust " sediment or deposit (Lat. later, a brick), consisting of amorphous urates, found in the urine in cases of the lithic acid diathesis. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Urinary Sedi- ments, Amorphous Urates). Latere-. — In compound words latero- means relating to the side, as in latero-abdominal (relating to the side and the abdomen, e.g. the Sims' position in gynsecology), latero-dorsal (re- lating to the side and the back), latero-deviation (displacement to one side), latero-fiexion and latero-version (flexion or version to one side), and latero-torsion (twisting to one side). Latex.—Milky fluid, especially that which exudes from various plants, but also the chyle. Lathyrism. — A disease, somewhat re- sembling beriberi, due to the ingestion of meal from various kinds of vetches or chick-pea {Lathyrus cicera, L. sativus, etc.), characterised by spastic paraplegia (and tremors) like that which follows transverse myelitis (with haemor- rhage) ; lupinosis. It occurs in Italy, India, Kabylia, and France. See Toxicology {Food- Stuffs, Vegetable, Lathyrism). Lathyrus. See Lathyrism. LatiSSimuS Dorsi.—The broad muscle of the back. See Muscles, Diseases op {Con- genital Absence). Latitude. See Meteorology {Tempera- ture as influenced hy Latitude). Latrines.—Public water-closets, in which the closets are arranged side by side and open into a common trough containing water. They are used in schools, barracks, factories, and in the poorer districts of large towns; they have the disadvantage of being somewhat offensive, and they are flushed with difficulty. See Sewage and Drainage {Water-Closets, Trough Closets). Laudable.—Healthy, in the sense that in the healing of wounds the pus thrown out was regarded as praiseworthy and an efficient agent in the reparative process ; no longer used in this sense. Laudanum.—Tincture of opium. See Opium ; Morphinomania ; Toxicology {Opium and Moyphine); etc. Laug^hing'- Gas. See Anesthetics {Nitrous Oxide Gas). Laug^ier'S Hernia.—A femoral hemia in which the sac pi'otrudes through an opening in Gimbernat's ligament. See Hernia {Femoral). Laumonier's Gang^lion. — The carotid ganglion. Laundries.—According to the Factories and Workshops Act of 1901, laundries are re- garded as factories if mechanical power be used in them, as workshops if it be not. Women and young persons must not be employed in them for more than sixty hours per week, and children for more than thirty hours; the same hygienic provisions must be made for them as for factories or workshops. Public laundries are to be recom- mended, especially for the washing of infected articles so that these may be kept apart and dealt with separately. Laurocerasi Folia.—The fresh leaves of Prunus laurocerasus, the Cherry Laurel, "Bay Leaf." It contains laurocerasin, a glucoside, a compound of amygdalin and amygdalic acid, by the decomposition of which in the presence of moisture small quantities of prussic acid are formed. Preparation—Aqua Laurocerasi. Contains about ^-^ per cent of prussic acid. Dose—J-2 3. It is not often employed because the amount of hydrocyanic acid present is very vmcertain. It may be used as a flavouring agent. Laurvik. See Balneology {Norway). Lavag'e.—The washing out of the stomach. An india-rubber stomach-tube with a glass funnel and some tubing are needed; the funnel is filled with fluid (water, saline solution, etc.) which passes through the tubing into the stomach tube and so into the stomach; the funnel is then lowered and the fluid flows out again by syphon action; the process is repeated several times till the water comes back clear. Lavage is useful in chronic dyspepsia (especially in the fermentative form), and in dilatation of the stomach, but is not to be employed if there is the suspicion of the presence of a gastric ulcer or thoracic aneurysm. The intestine may also be washed out, but this is usually called irriga- tion. See Enemata ; Indigestion {Treatment, Instrumental Measures). Lavatories. See Sewage and Drainage {Lavatories, Paths, and Sinks).