451 LIVER, DISEASES OF Complete aseptic obstruction of the common bile duct leads to dilatation of the intrahepatic ducts and to focal necrosis of the liver-cells, but not to cirrhosis. The functional activity of the liver is thus very gravely interfered with, and as a result of this hepatic inadequacy cholsemia or biliary toxaemia results, a condition which is much more rapidly fatal than cirrhosis. Finally, biliary obstruction does not give rise to any fixed type, either pathological or clinical, of cirrhosis. Portal Cirrhosis Introduction . . . . . .451 Etiology . . . . . .451 Alcohol 451 Gastro-intestinal Catarrh. . .451 Micro-Organisms . . . .451 Sex. Age . . . ... . 452 Morbid Anatomy . . . . .452 Associated Lesions— Tuberculosis . . . . .455 Renal Disease . . . . .455 Course 455 Signs op Cirrhosis . . . ,456 Ascites ...... 456 Symptoms ...... 458 Hcematemesis . . . . ,458 Complications 459 Diagnosis 460 Prognosis 460 Treatment ...... 460 Synonyms : Common, Atrophic, or Multilobular Cirrhosis; Hobnailed Liver; Gin or Whisky Drinker's Liver; Chronic Inter- stitial Hepatitis. Introduction.—The term cirrhosis was first «mployed by Laennec (1819), who regarded the yellow bile-stained " hobnails" as due to some new formation, and therefore termed it cirrhosis (xtppos = yellow). The term atrophic cirrhosis, though in common use, is undesirable, inasmuch as many of the livers of multilobular cirrhosis are by no means small. The adjectives portal, multilobular, or common are more suitable. Etiology.—The changes of cirrhosis are due to the action of poisons or possibly poison- producing bodies — micro-organisms — reaching the liver. These bodies are usually conveyed to the liver by the portal vein, but in some instances they reach the liver by the hepatic artery. Thus in the rare condition heemochromatosis, where there is widespread infiltration of the body with blood pigments set free by hasmolysis, possibly of microbic origin, the liver and pancreas become fibrotic. The hepatic artery in these cases shows endarteritis. Again, in scarlet fever there may be an acute interstitial hepatitis analogous to acute nephritis, and, like it, due to a poison reaching the liver from the general circulation; it is possible that traces of this lesion may persist and lay the foundation of ordinary cirrhosis. The same may be true of other specific fevers such as measles. Similarly, in the hsemic infections it is not improbable that focal necrosis of the liver-cells and connective tissue proliferation around these areas may, under certain conditions, lead to cirrhosis. In some instances, however, cirrhosis appears to be due to poisons reaching the liver by the portal vein. Alcohol has always been considered the cause par excellence of hepatic cirrhosis, and figures largely in the past history of patients. It is not, however, the typical drunkard so much as the constant tippler who develops cirrhosis. Experimentally alcohol gives rise to degeneration and fatty changes in the liver- cells and not to cirrhosis, so that it would appear that alcoholism only produces cirrhosis indirectly by favouring the development of the accessory factors. It has been suggested that though alcohol itself does not lead to cirrhosis, alcoholic liquors, in virtue of other constituents, such as sulphate of potash (Lancereaux), with which wines are "plastered," amyl alcohol, or fatty acids, have this effect. A very probable view is that alcoholism gives rise on the one hand to gastro-intestinal catarrh, and thus to the formation of poisonous bodies, which are the active factors in the production of cirrhosis, and that, on the other hand, it acts as a protoplasmic poison, and reduces the resistance of the liver, thus allowing the aforesaid poisons to act more vigorously and at greater advantage. Cirrhosis may undoubtedly occur without alcoholism, and recently Hanot and Boix have described dyspeptic or " Budd's cirrhosis" probably brought about by fatty acids, such as acetic, butyric, valerianic, and lactic, manufactured in the alimentary canal as the result of fermentation. In this way cirrhosis may be set up by spices and other articles of stimulating diet. In some instances, as ChaufFard has suggested, poisons may be manufactured in the spleen and be carried to the liver by the portal vein, and then set up cirrhosis. Thus in Banti's disease, a severe form of splenic anaemia with terminal cirrhosis, it is probable that a chronic intoxica- tion or infection chiefly aff"ecting the spleen leads to this further change in the liver. The r61e of micro-organisms in the production of cirrhosis, though rendered highly probable by the suggestive work of Adami and his pupils, is not at present satisfactorily established. It would appear probable that, as the result of alcoholism, the walls of the intestines may be so damaged as to allow of their penetration by micro-organisms, which thus reach the liver; and if its resistance is also diminished by the toxic effects of alcohol they may multiply, and by