391 LEPTO- LeptO-.—In compound words lepto- (Gr. AcTTTos, slender or thin) means thin or slender. LeptOCephaly. — A malformation of the head, which has a narrow shape due to synostosis of the frontal and sphenoid bones. LeptOChrOUS.—Having a thin or deli- cate skin. Leptomening^itiS.—Inflammation of the pia and arachnoid mater (" piarachnoid ") of the brain and spinal cord. See Meninges of the Cerebrum {Inflamvmtion of the Pia Arachnoid). Leptom icrogrnath us.—A malforma- tion characterised by smalliiess of the lower jaw (micrognathus) due to simple shortness of the same {Taruffi). Leptom it US Lacteus.—A fungus, allied to the salmon fungus, which blocks up streams, and is due to distillery effluents. Leptophonia.—Weakness or thinness of the voice. LeptoprOSOpOUS. —Having a long, thin face (Gr. Xctttos, thin, and -n-poa-oiTvov, a face); dolichofacial. Leptorrhine.—Having a thin or slender nose ; with a nasal index of less than 48°. Leptothrix.—A micro-organism consist- ing of thin, unbranched, hair-like cells, straight or spinal. There are several varieties: leptothrix buccalis, 1. buccalis maxima, 1. epidermidis, 1. lacrimalis, 1. racemosa, 1. vaginalis, and leptothrix of puerperal fever. See Pharynx, Examination op {Pharyngomycosis) ; Septi- cemia ; Teeth [Causes of Dental Caries); Teeth {Oral Sepsis); Tonsils, Diseases op {General Considerations). LeptuS Autumnal is.—The harvest bug. See Scabies {Other Acari); Stinging Insects {Harvest Bug). Le Rag^ie.—" A name given by d'Escayrac de Lauture in 1885 to hallucinations, mostly visual . . . which not unfrequently happen to travellers in the desert, especially to such as are in a debilitated state from previous illness, or who have suffered from great fatigue, want of food, anxiety, terror, etc." {Hack Tuke). Lerema.—Loquacity or silly childish talk, such as is met with in senile dementia. Leresis. See Lerema. Les AvantS. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Switzerland). LeSChenoma.—Loquacity, garrulity, or the silly chattering of mental disease and hysteria. Lesion.—An injury or damage to any part, or a morbid change in the structure or in the performance of the functions of an organ. There are various kinds of lesions : thus a molar lesion is a gross one ; a molecular lesion is one not recog- nisable by the microscope or by chemistry; a histological lesion is one in which the changes are sufficiently marked as to be recognisable by the microscope; a discharging lesion is a morbid change in the brain causing a sudden discharge of nervous motor impulses; and a lesion of con- tinuity is a solution or break of continuity. The initial lesion of syphilis is the chancre. LeSSer'S Triang^ie.—The space in the neck bounded above by the hypoglossal nerve and at the sides by the bellies of the digastric muscle. Leste. — The east wind of the Canary Islands and Madeira. See Air, Examination op {Moisture). Lethal. — Causing death, fatal, mortal, e.g. a lethal wound. See Medicine, Forensic (Wotmds). Letharg'y.—Drowsiness or torpor which the patient cannot overcome by will. See Ado- lescent Insanity ; Insanity, its Nature and Symptoms {Stupor); Sleeping Sickness or Negro Lethargy ; Unconsciousness. Letheomanla.—A morbid longing for narcotic drugs or anaesthetics (Gr. \rjOr], forget- fulness). Letheon, Compound. — Sulphuric ether. Lethin.—A proprietary preparation con- taining chloroform, camphor, acetic acid, etc. Lethrinus Mam bo.—A poisonous fish of the South Pacific. See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes {Poisonous Fish). Lett UCe. See Invalid Feeding (Vegetables, Soiled Lettuce); Lactuca. Leucaemia. See Leukemia; Leucocy- THEMIA. LeuCSethiopia.—Albinism in the black race ; a negro albino. Leucine.—-Amido-caproic acid (CsHj^NH^, CO'OH), found normally in various organs (liver, spleen, salivary glands, thymus, thyroid), and under abnormal conditions in the urine. See Bronchi, Bronchitis {Foetid Bronchitis, Dittrich'sPlugs); Expectoration (Microscopical Examination op Sputa, Crystals); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Pancreatic and Intestirml Secretions) ; Trades, Dangerous {Phosphorus Poisoning, Urine); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Abnwmal Nitrogenous Constituents, Sedi- ments).