103 KIDNEY Tonics should be prescribed, and of these quinine and nitro-hydrochloric acid are valuable. In acute cases the patient should be strictly confined to bed, and dry cupping or leeches applied locally, and opium fomentations to relieve pain. Suppurative Pyelonephritis Suppuration in the renal pelvis and kidney is the result of secondary infection from the lower urinary tract. It is the closing stage of many cases of old-standing cystitis, and occurs espe- cially when some form of obstruction is present. Etiology.—Infection introduced into the bladder—often by a dirty catheter—spreads to the kidneys already damaged by obstruction. This occurs in cases of old-standing urethral obstruction (44 per cent), stricture, enlarged prostate, etc., in long-continued cystitis (28 per cent), from calculus, growths, etc., or in cases of bladder atony (24 per cent), from brain or spinal disease or injury (Dickinson). Pathology.—The septic process spreads along the ureter or its lymphatics to the renal pelvis and kidney. Yellow streaks are found pass- ing from the pyramids along the tubules to the cortex, where yellowish splashes or actual abscesses are dotted here and there. Symptoms.—There is a combination of septic absorption with uraemia. At the outset there is a rigor, which is sometimes severe, and it may be repeated, but often this only occurs a day or two before death. The temperature rises to 101°-103° F., or even higher, and remains up with slight morn- ing remissions. Sometimes in old people, or those advanced in cachexia, there is no fever, although other grave symptoms are present, while in other cases the temperature may return to normal for four or five days, and then another rise occurs. The patient complains of thirst and headache; he refuses food, the bowels are constipated, and there is troublesome flatulence. The mouth is dry, the tongue coated, brown, and cracked ("parrot tongue"), and only pro- truded with difficulty. Sweating often occurs and is profuse, but shows no relation to the rise and fall of the temperature. There is rapid emaciation; the face has an anxious, sallow look, but is never jaundiced. The fever is un- accompanied by excitement or delirium. The patient becomes indifferent to his surroundings and dull; he replies to questions but slowly, and from time to time dozes off into a restless sleep from which he awakes with a start. Quiet muttering delirium often occurs, the torpor increases, and an hour or two before death coma supervenes. Urine.—If the urine is clear before the onset, it becomes turbid and deposits pus on standing ; often, however, it is already thick, muddy, and alkaline from long-continued cystitis. Albumin is constantly present in moderate quantity, and tube-casts and epithelial cells are found, but these signs are usually masked by the purulent urine of cystitis. Diminution in the quantity of urine is con- stant and the specific gravity is low. There is usually little or no pain, but indefinite aching with tenderness on pressure is sometimes present. The kidney cannot, as a rule, be left, although it is enlarged. There are three conditions which resemble the clinical picture of a suppurative nephritis:— {a) Acute nephritis (Bright's disease). Here the urine is greatly reduced in quantity (four or five ounces in twenty-four hours); it is smoky or porter-coloured from blood, and the specific gravity is high (1025). The puffiness of the eyelids and dropsy, the dry skin, and the frequent occurrence of ursemic convulsions dis- tinguish this disease. {b) PycBmia is distinguished by its high swinging temperature, repeated rigors with sweating, the secondary abscesses, and the hay- like odour of the breath. (c) Pyonep)hrosis has already been discussed. Prognosis.—The condition is one of extreme gravity, and is usually fatal within a few weeks (average 2-3 weeks, Morris). Occasionally, how- ever, under treatment the drowsiness disappears, the appetite improves, and the temperature returns to normal. In some cases of enlarged prostate with abund- ant residual urine, the infection of the bladder rapidly spreads to the damaged kidneys, and within a few days the patient succumbs; but in most cases the condition is of a more chronic type. The age of the patient, the previous condition of the kidneys, and the cause of the obstruction (malignant tumours) are important factors in deciding a fatal result. A dry coated tongue with increasing feeble- ness and drowsiness are very unfavourable symptoms. Treatment.—Attention to antisepsis in the treatment of stricture, prostatic enlargement, etc., and the early removal of urethral obstruc- tion by operation, have reduced the frequency of this disease. When infection has occurred no operation is availing or advisable. The diet should consist mainly of milk, the kidneys should be flushed with Contrexville water, distilled or barley water, and urinary antiseptics should be administered. Dry cup- ping of the loins may be useful. In more chronic cases the bladder should be washed out with boric acid, quinine, or other antiseptic solution. Cysts op the Kidney Conglomerate Cysts or Cystic Metamorphosis. —The condition is a very rare one, only a few