212 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED contracted upper part and the stretched lower part is not always marked by an abrupt change in thickness. The protracted pressure of the foetus upon the stretched part of the genital canal may cause it to give way, and thus rupture of the uterus or vagina occurs. When the lower part of the uterus and the vagina are equally tense, the one is as likely to give way as the other. (2) In some cases of obstructed labour a diiierent effect is produced. When the head presents and is too big to enter the brim, it cannot come down far enough to enter the os uteri. The bag of membranes enters uteri, and the part unsupported by the the OS cervix RtTRACTION INTCRNAU OS Fig. 3.—Kiiptured uterus, showing retraction ring at level oi firm attachment of peritoneum; thinning of cervix: gradual thinning of lower uterine segment from retraction ring down to os internum. A, firm attachment of peritoneum. (From a specimen in the London Hospital Museum.) viteri receives the full pressure of the uterus upon the liquor amnii; it therefore protrudes more than it does in normal labour, the liquor amnii contained in it and called the " fore- waters " not being, as in normal labour, cut off by the head from the bulk of the liquor amnii. This abnormal pressure upon the part of the membranes protruding through the os, rup- tures them long before the os uteri is fully dilated. Then the head nips the cervix uteri between it and the symphysis pubis. As labour goes on, the upper part of the uterus contracts more and more, pulling up the lower segment. But the cervix cannot rise, being held down where it is nipped between the head and the pubic bones. The lower segment therefore becomes more and more stretched and thinned, and the boundary between the upper part of the uterus which contracts, and the lower part which dilates and thins, becomes more and more abrupt. This line of sudden alteration in the thickness of the viterine wall is the ring of Bandl. Much discussion has taken place as to the part of the uterus at which it is formed. Some have maintained that it is identical with the internal os; I think that it is above this, and that it cannot be more exactly defined than as the part of the uterus which corresponds to the equator of the foetal head, is situated at the brim of the pelvis, and is nearly that of firm attachment of the peritoneum. If obstructed labour still goes on, and the patient dies not from exhaustion, rupture of the uter-us will take place, the rent being in the stretched and thinned lower segment. The symptoms, physical signs, and treatment of rupture of the uterus are described. The prolonged pressure upon the soft parts nipped between the foetal head and the symphysis pubis often produces sloughing of these soft tissues, and the formation of urinary fistulfE. These will be found de- scribed elsewhere. In the preceding pages four kinds of abnormal uterine action have been described. In the three first, if they occur in labours otherwise natural, it may be correctly said that labour is prolonged through fault in the powers, and through that alone. In the fourth, the ab- normal uterine action is secondary, and a result of the exceptional diffi- culties which the uterus has to overcome; but it is nevertheless a fault in the powers, and, therefore, I have here described it. To make this account complete I must add, that labour may be slow because the auxiliary forces, the down-bearing eflTorts of the patient, are absent, as in paraplegia. But this is very rare ; it never prevents delivery, though it may delay it. The only treatment is to supplement uterine action by pushing from above or pulling from below. (3) I now have to describe the faults in the passage which make labour difficult. These are of two kinds: (a) in the bones ; (b) in the soft parts. I take first obstruction by the bones ; in other words, contraction of the pelvis. I shall describe the production, characteristics, efi'ects, diagnosis, and treatment of those pelvic deformities which are common enough and great enough to be obstetrically important. Pelvic Deformities The shape of the female pelvis is determined by three factors: (1) the innate tendency of