127 KLIKUSCHI be a form of hystero-epilepsy, often associated with religious emotion, closely resembling" Ikota {'J.V.). Kiopemania.—A synonym of Klepto- mania {q.v.). KlopSOphobia..—A morbid dread of spies and thieves. Klumpke's Paralysis. — Paralysis with atrophy due to a lesion of the seventh and eighth cervical and first dorsal nerve roots, affecting the muscles of the hand and forearm, with incapacity of dilatation of the pupil. See Brachial Plexus [Tears and Contusions). Knacker. — An individual who kills animals (horses, mules, cattle) whose flesh is not to be used as butcher's meat; the Knacker's yard is the place set aside for such slaughtering (which is one of the offensive trades), and it must be licensed under certain restrictions. Knee-jerk. See Tendon-Jerks ; Tabes DoRSALis ; etc. Knee-joint.—This subject is considered in two articles :— 1. Diseases of. 2. Injuries of. See also Brain, Physiology of {Motor Areas, Movements of Knee); Brain, Tumours op {Local- ising St/mptonis, Rejlexes) ; Bursve, Injuries and Diseases op {Housemaid's Knee); Deformities ; Diabetes Mellitus {Nervous System Symptoms, Loss of Knee - Jerk) ; Diphtheria {Complica- tions, Abolition of Knee-Jerks); Joints ; Gout ; Hysteria, Surgical Aspects of {Knee); Menin- gitis, Tuberculous {Symptoms, Absence of Knee- Jerks); Osteo - Arthropathies {Arthropathies, Knee) ; Kheumatism ; Rheumatoid Arthritis ; Rickets ; Tabes Dorsalis ; Tendon-Jerks ; etc. Knee-Joint, Diseases in the Reg^ion of. Anatomical Considerations . . .127 Deformed Attitudes in Disease of Knee 128 Classification of Diseases— 1. Tuberculosis ..... 129 Syphilis. See Joints. 3. Pyogenic Diseases {including Gonor- rhoea a7id Osteomyelitis in Region of Knee) ..... 138 4. Rheumatism. See Joints. 5. Arthritis de.formans 139 6. Hcemophylia {bleeder's knee) . 140 7. Charcot's Disease .... 140 8. Hysterical Knee .... 140 9. Loose Bodies ..... 140 10. Contracture and Ankylosis—undei- different diseases. 11. Pathological Dislocation 140 12. Congenital Dislocation— of knee ..... 140 of patella .... 140 13. Diseases of Superior Tibio-fibular Joint ...... 141 14. Diseases of the Bursas around the Knee ...... 141 15. Ganglia in the Region of the Knee . 141 16. T^imours in the Region of the Knee . 141 Hydatid Cysts . . .142 17. Paralysis of Muscles acting on Knee— Paralytic Contracture . .142 Paralytic genu recurvatum . 142 18. Other Deformities in Region of Knee. See Deformities, vol. ii. 19. Operations on the Knee— Arthrotomy, Arthrectomy, Exci- sion. Under "Tuberculosis," p. 135. The knee is probably more often the seat of disease than any other joint in the body, prob- ably because of its size and the great extent of its synovial membrane, and because it is more exposed to injury and to cold, either of which is capable of favouring the action of disease- producing agencies. Some of the diseases met with in the knee are rarely seen in any other articulation, while if we pass in I'eview the different diseases that involve joints and note their seats of election, it is the knee in almost every instance that is most prone to be attacked. Although the joint is to a large extent subcu- taneous, and therefore lends itself to direct examination, the number and variety of morbid conditions to which it is liable may render their clinical recognition a matter of difficidty and sometimes of uncertainty. Anatomical Considerations The synovial membrane extends upwards above the patella and beneath the quadriceps extensor in the shape of a pouch or cul de sac; it is rendered very distinct when the joint is dis- tended with fluid, or when the synovial mem- brane is the seat of the diffuse thickening which so frequently attends tuberculous disease. The precise limit of this upper pouch varies with the development of the subcrural bursa and with the size of the communication between it and the bursa. Sometimes the communication is so wide that the cavities are practically con- tinuous with one another ; sometimes it is very narrow, and will scarcely admit the tip of the little finger; in young children the communi- cation is either very narrow or is not developed. The reflection of the synovial membrane is a little higher in the extended than in the flexed position of the limb ; it is generally stated as being an inch or more above the upper margin of the patella, but it may be as high as three inches or more. The capacity for distension exhibited by the upper pouch of the joint in the extended position of the limb is partly due to the capsular ligament above the patella being replaced by the quadriceps extensor, which is,