LARYNX, CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES 347 ventricular bands, and occasionally other parts also. Ulceration does not seem to occur, but gradual cicatrisation may take place. The symptoms, vary according to the parts affected. Thus huskiness may occur first in one case and dyspnoea in another. The last named will, however, sooner or later set in, as even if the laryngeal stricture be dilated, the disease tends to spread to the trachea and finally to the bronchi. The only treatment which seems to avail is surgical interference. Thus persistent dilata- tion may prevent the occurrence of dangerous stenosis for a time at least, while at a later stage tracheotomy may be required. Paw- lowsky has advocated the employment of a liquid prepared from the bacillus, which he terms rhinosclerin. Leprosy of the Larynx This disease only attacks the larynx after it has already become manifest in other parts. Infiltration may occur in any position, although the epiglottis is stated to suffer most frequently. The aryepiglottic folds are also often involved, and by their traction produce further changes in the shape and position of the epiglottis. According to Bergengrun the part is drawn backwards, its edges are turned in, and the con- tour resembles the Greek omega (fi). At a later period more circumscribed granulomata occur in various parts. These vary much in shape, size, and consistence. Thus they may be smooth or granular, sometimes even resembling papillomata; they may be only as large as a pin-head, but have been met with up to the size of a pigeon's egg. According to Bergengriin they are always anaesthetic. These leprous nodules seem to have usually a more or less pale colour, while although firm at first they become softer as time goes on. As a rule, the vocal cords seem to escape for a time ; but if the patient survives, they become first infiltrated and they later develop nodules. As the disease advances ulceration sets in; the ulcers may be deep and spread rapidly, or superficial, while sometimes clefts and furrows occur in the infiltrated parts. Finally, cicatrisa- tion may occur at parts although the disease progresses elsewhere. The more important symptoms are, as would be expected, huskiness in the early stages and dyspnoea later. As the general disease is always present this facilitates diagnosis. The chief distinctive points in the local lesions are—(1) the very slow progress; (2) antesthesia; while in doubt- ful cases the bacillus leprae may be discovered in a removed fragment. The treatment must be purely palliative, and tracheotomy may become necessary. Benign Growths of Larynx Introductory ..... 347 Varieties of . . . . . 347 Etiology ...... 349 Clinical Features .... 349 Diagnosis . . . 349 Course and Prognosis . . . 350 Treatment 350 The opinion has been often expressed that benign growths of the larynx are met with less frequently now than in the early days of laryn- gology, and it has been suggested that this is due to those throat ailments which favour the formation of neoplasms, now receiving earlier and more efficient treatment. Leaving aside the fact that we do not know what " throat ailments favour the formation of neoplasms," we are not aware of any reliable evidence showing that the frequency of simple growths of the larynx has diminished in this country. When we remember that Mackenzie, when he was almost the only worker in the field, took ten years to collect his first hundred cases, that these cases are now divided among many workers through- out the country, and, further, that the majority are never published, the alleged diminution will at least appear doubtful. Still, there is no doubt that simple laryngeal growths, if we except the so-called "singers' nodule," are com- paratively rare. Newman gives the percentage as from 2 to 2J of all chronic laryngeal diseases, and Lennox Browne puts it at 2'5 per cent of all diseases of the larynx. Of the many varieties of new growths which have been met with in the larnyx only three are of frequent occurrence—papilloma, fibroma, and cystoma. All the others, such as lypoma, angioma, chondroma, adenoma, myxoma, lym- phoma, and thyroid gland-tissue tumours, are very rare. It is usual to describe the so-called " singers'nodule " as a distinct clinical variety of new growth, since its histological structure varies in different specimens. PapiIiLOMA.—From Semon's collective investi- gation statistics this has been proved to be the commonest form of laryngeal growth, though many observers have found fibromata to form a much larger proportion of their cases. It may be single or multiple, and may grow from any part of the larynx, though most frequently from the vocal cords, rarely from the epiglottis, and hardly ever, even in the multiple papillomata of children, from the inter-arytenoid region. The growths may be broad-based, flat, and firm, but more frequently are more or less peduncvilated, cauliflower-like masses, of softer consistence. They vary in size from a millet seed to a walnut, and may be white, pink, or red in colour. They are, as a rule, easily recognised by their distinctly irregular warty surface. Fibroma. —This is almost invariably a single growth, with smooth surface, rounded or semi-