LABOUK, INJURIES DURING 265 uterine action, and tonic contraction is more speedily produced. (3) Direct Violence.—Instances have been re- corded of women being kicked or run over, or tossed by bulls, with resulting rupture of the uterus. (4) Criminal Attempts at Abortion.—In such cases the uterus is more usually perforated than incised or lacerated. (5) Spontaneous Rupture.—This somewhat obscure accident may occur as early as the eighth or tenth week from the rupture of an " interstitial" gestation, but need not be further detailed here; nor need much be said of those very rare cases of spontaneous rupture, stated to have occurred in the later months, before any evidence of labour has appeared, and which are impossible to explain by merely assuming fatty or other degeneration. A possible explanation of such cases is that the uterus had been some time previously operated on, e.g. " rapidly" dilated, and that partial rupture had then occurred, with subsequent union by cicatricial unyielding tissue. The author knows of one case where a woman died suddenly at the beginning of labour, who a year previously had the inverted cornu of the uterus removed un- intentionally by the wire ecraseur during the removal of a fibroid polypus. Position of the Rent in Raptured Uterus.— The rent is usually in the lower zone of the uterus, and posteriorly and to the left. The line of laceration is at right angles to the direc- tion of greatest tension, and may therefore be either longitudinal or transverse : but is usually obliquely longitudinal, and as such likely to extend through the cervix into the vagina. If the cervix is nipped between the head and the pelvic brim, the lower segment of the uterus will give way first; but if the cervix be drawn up, as usually occurs, the rupture may begin in the cervix, and may, unless it is a transverse one, extend downwards to the vagina, or upwards into the uterine lower segment. Varieties of Rupture.—If the rupture is " com- plete," i.e. through all the coats and covers of the uterus, the peritoneal cavity is generally opened up posteriorly. If the tear is oblique or lateral, the cellular tissue of the broad liga- ment may be opened up, or, if the rent is anterior, the base of the bladder may be torn, in either case without the peritoneum being reached. In " incomplete " ruptures, where the peritoneal investment is not torn, it may never- theless be extensively stripped off from the uterine muscle, and the sac thus formed may be distended by blood, by the placenta, or even by parts of the foetus itself. Action of the Uterus after Rupture of the Lower Segment.—If empty, the uterus would con- tract as firmly down as if its contents had been normally evacuated, and its size would be that of the normal uterus at the end of the third stage. Symptoms and Signs.—Occasionally rupture occurs without any premonitory symptoms having been noticed, owing to absence of skilled observation. As a rule, however, if rupture be imminent, the " pains," previously intermittent, will have become continuous, and will be felt mainly in the lower abdomen owing to the con- tinuous tension of the uterine muscles and ligaments. There will be constitutional and local evidences of tonic uterine contraction, with Bandl's ring well marked below the navel. When rupture has occurred there will be sudden pain and collapse following an ordinary "pain," if intermittency was still present. There is usually internal hsemorrhage, and, unless the presenting part filled the passage, some would also escape per vaginam. The presenting part may be felt to have receded, or to have totally disappeared, but, if foetal impaction had occurred, no diff'erence would be noticed. In " complete " rupture both the child and placenta might be in the peritoneal cavity. If rupture had taken place over an after-coming head, it might not be at first suspected, especially if the patient were antesthetised, and might only be discovered when the hand was inserted to remove what appeared to be a retained placenta. More rarely the child escapes into the peritoneal cavity at the moment of rupture, and the placenta is subsequently normally expelled. If the rent is "incomplete," the child may have partially escaped from the uterus into a sac formed by the stripped-ofF peritoneum. In " complete " rents the bowels may protrude into the vagina, or even appear externally. Diagnosis of " Complete" Ru20ture.—In the event of being suddenly called to a patient suffering from sudden collapse during labour, the diagnosis has to be made mainly between ruptured uterus and concealed accidental haem- orrhage. The distinction is, however, obvious ; for whilst the aspect of the patient, the severe and prolonged shock, the evidences of internal htemorrhage and the recession of the presenta- tion, may be common to both disasters, the occurrence of the collapse in the second stage of labour, and the small size of the retracted uterus, point strongly to ruptured uterus and away from concealed accidental htemorrhage, where the collapse occurs before or during the first stage, and the uterus is over-distended and tense. If, in addition, the child is felt to be outside the retracted uterus, or if the rent can be felt /jer- vagiiiam, the diagnosis of rupture is certain. The diagnosis of " incomplete " 7-upture is often impossible, and may not be suspected before delivery, and would then only be known by the passage of the hand into the uterus, and the detection of the partly stripped-off peritoneum, or the formation of a subperitoneal or broad ligament hsematoma. If the placenta or a portion of the fostus lies outside the uterus in