439 LIVER, DISEASES OF I vestigations show that the production of uric acid is certainly not confined to the liver, but takes place elsewhere in the body, being espe- cially dependent on changes in lymphoid tissue and on leucocytosis, the uric acid being derived from nuclein obtained from the leucocytes; while according to Latham, Kolisch, and Luff the formation of uric acid occurs in the kidney. It is, therefore, too narrow a view of the faulty metabolism of proteid material that results in an excessive production of uric acid, to say that it depends on functional disorder of the liver to the exclusion of the rest of the body. An increase in the urates and uric acid in the urine is found in hepatic disorder such as cirrhosis, congestion, and in conditions such as fever, where the liver-cells might be aifected by toxins in the blood, and so incapable of per- forming their proteolytic function. But even granting for the moment that the formation of urea under normal conditions, and of uric acid in excess in abnormal states, takes place in the liver, this process is due to the functional dis- turbance that is not primary, but due to struc- tural modification, and secondary to morbid processes elsewhere. It is, however, erroneous to conclude that even as a secondary eflfect the faulty metabolism takes place in the liver rather than elsewhere in the body. For in grave disease of the liver, such as cirrhosis or extensive malignant disease, the increase in the amount of uric acid in no way corresponds with the view that its forma- tion depends on an imperfect metabolism of proteids by the liver; while in cases of fever and toxsemia the remainder of the body, being equally thrown out of gear, is liable to faulty metabolism, one of the results of which might well be the production of uric acid instead of urea. Habitual high arterial tension and its accom- paniments, such as migraine, might be thought to depend on a failure of the liver to stop and destroy the poisonous bodies that are carried to it from the intestines. The liver undoubtedly exerts this important function of protecting the body from auto-intoxication; but it is difficult to prove that failure in the discharge of this duty leads to high arterial tension, since in cases of extensive disorganisation of the liver, for example in cirrhosis, hepatic insufficiency must exist, but the arterial tension is low and not raised. It is much more likely that high arterial tension is, like gout, due to some general disorder of metabolism of the body. In cases popularly described as "biliousness," or "torpid" liver, where there is indigestion, some hepatic pain, headache, slight icteric tingeing of the conjunctivEe, with a deficiency of colour- ing matter in the faeces, the explanation is gastro-duodenal catarrh with slight catarrhal jaundice, and not a primary diminution in the secretion of bile. In these cases it is possible either that there is catarrhal swelling of the biliary papilla in the duodenum, or that, as the result of gastro-intestinal indigestion, poisonous products are carried to the liver, and then, when excreted into the bile ducts, set up a certain amount of catarrh in the small intrahepatic ducts. This leads to reabsorption of the bile with the poisons contained in it, which pass into the general circulation and poison the body as a whole. Sir Thomas Brunton has ingeniously shown that the proverbial bitter taste of the bile is probably pathological, and due to the presence of poisons absorbed from the bowel and then excreted into the ducts, and that in health the bile is tasteless. But because the ingenious conception of lithajmia and other time-honoured views as to primary functional disease of the liver do not commend themselves in the light of later knowledge, it does not follow that hepatic insufficiency or inadequacy is a negligible factor. It must be borne in mind that the liver, like other organs, must vary greatly in different individuals as to its functional activity and reserve power, and an amount of food products that could be satisfactorily dealt with by the liver in one individual would in another be beyond the scope of the liver. This difference in the inherent powers of the liver in different persons is analogous to the differences in their muscular and mental power, and the less power- ful should not be described as suffering from functional disease of their muscles or brain because they fail to accomplish the work that their better developed companions have no difficulty with. If, therefore, an individual consumes an amount of food that is excessive for his powers of digestion, fermentation and auto-intoxication will result. These poisons will impair the functional activity of the liver, and as a result the poisons and the products of digestion will be allowed to pass into the general circulation and give rise to the various toxic manifestations already referred to. From what has gone before, it is evident that the well-known symptoms ascribed to a torpid or inactive liver are chiefly due to factors which secondarily interfere with the functional activity of the liver, and not to a primary inadequacy of the organ. Secondary Functional Disorder op the Liver The symptoms have already been referred to on pp. 437-439, and a few lines as to their treatment will now be given. The treatment of the symptoms of secondary hepatic inadequacy must therefore be directed to the causes, and not to the liver itself. In the first place, the alimentary canal should