426 LITHIO-PIPERAZINE lithium and piperazine, used in doses of 15 to 45 grains (daily) in gout. Lithium.—Symbol, Li.; atomic weight, 6"97. It is official in the form of the following salts-—1. Lithii Carbonas, a white powder, soluble 1 in 70 of water. Dose—2-5 grs. 2. Lithii Citras, a white crystalline powder, soluble 1 in 2 of water. Dose—5-10 grs. Preparation —Lithii Citras EfFervescens. Dose — 60-120 grs. Lithii Benzoas, Lithii Bromidum, and Lithii Salicylas are unofficial. Lithium salts are similar in action to the corresponding potassium salts, but on account of the affinity of lithium for uric acid and the ready solubility of lithium urate they have been preferred for the treatment of gout. It is probable, however, that in the blood the salts combine more readily with the acid sodium phosphate, and form no compound whatever with uric acid. They are diuretic, and render the urine alkaline, and for these reasons may be one of value in some cases. Large quantities of water are usually taken with lithium, and this in itself may account for some of the beneficial effect in cases of gout. Excessive doses or too prolonged administration of lithium salts may cause considerable depression, general feebleness, and stomach disturbance. A lotion of lithium carbonate (4 grs. to 5j of water) has been used as a moist application to gouty joints and gouty ulcerations. Litl^O-.—In compound words litho- (Gr. kL$os, stone) means relating to calculi, urinary, biliary, or other. LithOCi3,St.—'See Lithotrite. LithodiaiysiS.—The solution of calculi in the bladder by drugs given by the mouth (of very doubtful efficacy) or by intravesical injections, or the division of vesical calculi into pieces small enough to be removed by irrigation or by forceps. LithOg'enesiS.—The formation of calculi in the body. LitllOkeiyphopaedion. — An extra- uterine fostus or lithoptedion which has under- gone calcification only in its envelopes and superficial parts {Kiichenmeister). Lithoia.pclxy.—The crushing of a vesical calculus and removal of the fragments thus produced at one sitting. Lithonephrotomy.—Incision of the kidney for the removal of a renal calculus. See Kidney, Surgical Affections {Stone, Treat- ment). LittlOntriptiC.—Medicinal means of dis- solving urinary calculi, such as water, lithium, benzoic acid, piperazine, etc. Lithopaedion.—A foetus, almost always extra-uterine, which has died and undergone calcification in whole or in part (lithokelypho- psedion). LithopllOne.—An instrument for detect- ing the presence of a stone in the bladder by the production of sound when the two come in contact. LitflOtomy.—The operation of removal of a stone from the bladder by incision, lateral (perineal), median (perineal), suprapubic, or vaginal. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Calculus Vesicae, Treatment, Lithotomy). LitllOtomy Position.—The exagger- ated dorsal posture, the thighs being markedly flexed on the abdomen. See Gynecology, Dia- gnosis in ; Curettage ; Uterus, Malignant Tumours of (Vaginal Hysterectomy); etc. Lithotripsy.—The operation of crushing a calculus in the bladder. See Lithotrity. Lithotrite. — The instrument used to crush a vesicle calculus, preparatory to its removal. Lithotrity. — The operation of crushing a vesicle calculus into fragments small enough to pass away or be removed through the urethral canal; the crushing instrument used is called a lithotrite or lithotriptor. See Bladder, Injuries AND Diseases of {Calculus Vesicae, Treatment by Lithotrity). Lithuria..—The presence of uric acid, in excessive amount, in the urine. See Uric Acid; Urine, Pathological Changes in {Urinary Sediments); Gout ; etc. Litmus Paper.—Unsized paper which has been steeped in a solution of litmus (a blue pigment obtained from a lichen, Roccella tinc- toria) ; the blue paper turns red in the presence of an acid ; the paper which has been reddened with acid turns blue if put into an alkaline solution. These papers are used in the examina- tion of urine, etc. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Reaction). Litten'S Sigri.—The retraction of the lateral part of the chest (corresponding to the insertion of the diaphragm); there is lowering of the retracted part during inspiration, and rising during expiration; it is absent in pleural effu- sions, when there are pleuritic adhesions, etc. Littlehampton. >S'ee Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). Little's Disease. — The cerebral di- plegia of infancy or congenital spastic para- plegia. See Paralysis {Spastic, Infantile, Cerebral).