189 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM The difference in mechanism between this and the last described case begins when the child lies with its shoulder in the brim. The spinal column, being devoid of tone, does not form an elastic rod as in spontaneous version ; so that when the uterus forces the breech down the shoulder is thrust deeper into the pelvis, and does not glide across the brim. The shoulder is driven down into the pelvic cavity; this is followed by the side of the thorax, the abdomen, and finally the breech, which finds itself in the hollow of the sacrum. The side of the neck is now jammed against the back of the symphysis, and the shoulder comes down under the pubic arch and presents at the valve. The thorax and then the breech are forced down past the head and neck and are born, the legs being the first part to make a complete escape from the canal. The rest of the trunk and the head then follow, as in a breech case. Spontaneous Expulsion (corpore conduplicato). —The child here is always dead and small. The body is born doubled iip, flexion taking place about the lower dorsal region, which is born first. The chest is squeezed against the belly, and the head and pelvis are born together last. Management of Labour Preparations for . . . . . 189 Antiseptic in. . . . . .190 Anesthetics . . . . . .192 Management of 1st Stage . . .193 ,, ,, 2nd Stage . . . 194 „ ,, 3rd Stage . . . 196 „ AFTER Delivery. . . 197 Management op Special Presentations . 198 Occipito-posterior . . . .198 Face 199 Brow 200 Breech 200 Transverse ..... 203 In the general management of labour there are three essential important indications :— 1. To prevent any septic infection from being introduced from without. 2. Be ready to assist when necessary during labour, and thus recognise early and possible dangers. Assistance may be required to pre- vent undue length of labour from any cause, retention of any parts of the placenta or mem- branes ; also help will be required to arrest haemorrhage, to avoid lacerations to the genital tract or accidents to the child. 3. Reduce suffering to a minimum by the administration of an anEesthetic. Preparations for Labour.—If, as is usually the case, the doctor has seen the patient at least once before labour commences, special instruc- tion should be given as to the management of the last fortnight of pregnancy, in regard to the care of the nipples, the systematic clearing out of the rectum, and the use of hot baths; vaginal douching, if any reason to believe that there is a venereal discharge (see "Pregnancy, Management of "). In most cases it is necessary to give the patient a list of the appliances that must be in the house, and to advise as to the choice of the room and position of the bed. Choice of a Boom.—The room in which the labour is to take place should preferably be large and airy, with a south or western exposure if possible. A patient always gets on better if the room is bright, and gets a certain amount of sunshine. There should be an open fire-place (not a gas stove), and a good window to ensure proper ventilation. A fixed basin in the room is never to be commended, as there is always the possible danger of sewer-gas entering by it. If the room can have a dressing-room opening off it so much the better, as the bathing of the child, and the nurse's preparation of food, douches, etc., can be carried on without disturbing the mother. It is also better for the nurse to sleep in the second room at night. The temperature of the room should be kept at 60° to 65° F. The bed should be fairly hard, so as not to form a pit where the patient lies. A feather bed is out of the question. A narrow bed, standing out into the middle of the room, is the most convenient during labour, as the patient can be more easily got at, and the administration of the anaesthetic is easier. If the bed is not narrow, and cannot be placed so that there is access to both sides, it must be arranged so that the doctor has access to the patient's right side; if this is not done, the examination of the patient when on her left side has to be made with the doctor's left hand, or otherwise entails a great deal of moving. The bed is made up in the ordinary way, then covered with a mackintosh sheet, well tucked over the edge, and covered with a draw-sheet. It is of great advantage to have over this a thick square of absorbent wool, which is burned after it is soiled by discharges. This should be changed once or twice during labour. List of Special Articles required Douche can, 2 quart size. Glass vaginal nozzle. Higginson's enema syringe. Gum-elastic catheter or rubber catheter, size 8. Bed-slipper. Mackintosh sheet (size 1 yd. sq. at least). 4 absorbent wood wool sheets : 2 large size, 32 in. X 32 in.; 2 medium size, 26 in. x 20 in. 2 dozen large-sized wood wool towellettes. These are better in every way than ordinary linen diapers. 4 binders of strong towelling (linen or hucka- back), 1 yd. wide x \\ yds. long. The binder is folded lengthways. Box of assorted safety-pins, some specially large for the binder.