LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 514 tube inserted. (2) Before opening the abscess some surgeons recommend that the liver be secured to the parietal peritoneum by a double row of sutures. By an outer row of silk in- terrupted (overlapping) stitches the liver is fixed to the parietal peritoneum about 1 inch from the margin of the cut peritoneum ; by an inner row of continuous catgut sutures the margin of the parietal peritoneum is sewn to the liver surface—leaving a surface of almost 1^ inch in circumference exposed. Mr. Godlee, who advocates this method of suture, recom- mends that the posterior sheath of the rectus be included with the peritoneum in the sutures when the incision is made through the mass of the rectus muscle. The difficulty found by all surgeons is to get sufficient traction upon these sutures without the liver substance tearing through. This is especially the case when the liver around the abscess is in a state of inflammation. It should be remembered, however, that but slight traction on the suture is necessary, and that what appears a lax suture will be sufficient to establish speedy effusion and close juxtaposition of the peritoneal surfaces. Operation of Incision by way of the Thorax.—• When the abscess is situated at what is called the back of the liver, it must be approached by way of the chest wall. When the pus is bulging at an intercostal space it may be sufficient to incise the abscess freely and insert as large a drainage-tube as can pass between the ribs without being compressed. Most surgeons, however, recommend the removal of an inch or two of a rib so as to give more room. When the pus is deeply-seated, and the cavity of the right pleura has to be traversed, it is considered necessary to stitch the parietal and the dia- phragmatic pleurae together ; then to puncture the abscess through the diaphragm, or, if the peritoneum is opened and yet no pus found, to stitch the peritoneal surfaces together and then to the margins of the pleurae and parietal parts before opening the abscess. This is an opera- tion which few wovild care to undertake, and after these preliminary steps are taken there is the uncertainty of finding the abscess. Operation by Incision and Trocar and Can- nula compared.—The advocates of operation by incisions—that is, by a laparotomy or by a thoracic wound—declare that only by these means can one see what one is doing. In bold terms they state that they wish to look " their enemy in the face," and that the operation by puncture is a half-hearted step, and undertaken only by timorous surgeons. So far is their pronouncement carried that many declare it is unsurgical and unwise to use even the needle of an aspirator whereby to explore for pus in the liver as a preliminary. On the other hand, those who use the trocar and cannula claim that there is no (or but little) danger exploring the liver by an aspir- ator needle ] that with the trocar and cannula and the introduction of a large drainage-tube through the cannula the abscess cavity is reached easily, and that the drainage is ample ; and further, that the patient is not submitted to the dangers of laparotomy or to wound of pleura, diaphragm, or lung. The writer has practised both methods, and unhesitatingly declares in favour of the trocar and cannula. His reasons for so doing are :— (1) That the operation is one of much less severity. (2) That there is less likelihood of the pus finding its way into the peritoneal or pleural cavities after puncture by trocar and cannula than after incisions. The writer has never found pus gain access to either the peri- toneum or pleura after puncture, but has seen it frequently do so after incisions. (3) Suturing the liver to the abdominal wall is only occasion- ally (if ever) possible so as to secure a continu- ous channel. (4) Suturing the pleural layers and the diaphragm, etc., is usually only a surgical farce—no completeness in the closing of the wounds and complete apposition of the parts being possible owing to the mobility of the organs and the nature of the tissues being dealt with. (5) When the liver is exposed by a laparotomy the surgeon is in no better position as regards the localisation of a deep-seated liver abscess. The liver has still to be punctured by a searching needle, and with more probability of the blood or pus, which follows withdrawal of the needle, gaining access to the peritoneal cavity than when the parts are in naturally maintained apposition. Colonel Macleod, Netley, related an instance of this at the section of Tropical Disease at Ipswich, 1900. A surgeon had cut down by a laparotomy on a liver believed to be the seat of an abscess. The liver, however, when exposed, appeared normal and the operation was abandoned; yet, in a few days afterwards, a quantity of liver pus was passed by the rectum. Had such a case been explored by a needle, in all probability the abscess would have been discovered, and a trocar and cannula would have allowed its escape by a safer channel. (6) The ease with which a liver abscess is reached and treated by a trocar and cannula encourages a medical practitioner, who may be single-handed at the operating table, to treat a liver abscess by this means, who would be deterred practising a laparotomy or a thoracic incision. Liver abscesses occur in the tropics usually, and the surgeon may be called upon to operate away from hospital wards and hospital appliances. Operations by incisions under these circumstances can only be done at great risk to the patient, the operator being alone and with perhaps a native hospital attendant or ward coolie assisting. Therefore, anything that can simplify operations for liver abscess is to be