LIVEE, DISEASES OF 444 occurred in 200 and ascites in 140 (Pitt). The ascitic fluid is usually straw-coloured, lout has been noted to be chyliform. Termination. — Death is commonly due to increasing cardiac failure, or to some terminal infection setting up pneumonia, pleurisy, etc. Infection may fall on the liver itself, and give rise to acute degenerative changes in the liver- cells and icterus gravis. The prognosis depends on the character of the primary cause; when the chronic venous engorgement of the liver ensues in the course of heart or lung disease of old standing, the outlook is naturally bad. If secondary to more acute dilatation, the outlook is more hopeful. Diagnosis. — When the cardiac lesion is definitely recognised no difficulty arises; but in the cases described as hepatic asystole, where attention is focussed on the liver, the condition may be thought to be one of cirrhosis, or possibly malignant disease, with secondary cardiac failure. The smoothness of the liver, the absence of dilated veins on the abdominal wall, and of any splenic enlargement, and the effect of cardiac tonics, are in favour of passive congestion of the liver and against cirrhosis. The smoothness of the surface, the slighter degree of enlargement, the diminution in size produced by appropriate cardiac treatment, together with absence of severe pain and cachexia in nutmeg liver, will usually prevent any difficulty in the diagnosis from malignant disease of the organ. Treatment should be directed to the primary lesion, whether cardiac or combined pulmonary and cardiac disease. Digitalis is the most efficacious drug, and may be combined with or replaced by strophanthus in cases of mitral stenosis. A pill containing digitalis, squills, and mercury is a valuable compound, and may be given at the same time that citrate of caffeine is administered by the mouth. The hepatic engorgement may be successfully treated by purgatives, such as the old-fashioned blue pill and haustus sennte, or by the adminis- tration of 2 to 4 drachms of sulphate of magnesia in hot water after an abstinence from liquid for some hours (Matthew Hay's method). Paracen- tesis of the abdomen may be necessary. For insomnia, hypodermic injection of morphia is the most satisfactory remedy; if there be respiratory distress from bronchitis its adminis- tration is contraindicated, and paraldehyde or chloralamide should be tried. The diet should be simple and nutritious, and not contain too much fluid, as this would tend to aggravate the often already water-logged condition. Hepatic Pseudo-Cirrhosis Synonym : Pericardial Pseudo-Cirrhosis. Under this title a number of cases have been described that are practically only chronic venous engorgement of the liver. Pick describes the clinical aspect as being rather that of cirrhosis, inasmuch as ascites is a prominent feature, while oedema of the legs is slight or may be absent. The pathological change is adherent pericardium, and not valvular disease of the heart, with sub- sequent circulatory disturbance in the liver, which is in a state of nutmeggy atrophy, show- ing some increased fibrosis without any peri- hepatitis. The adherent pericardium may be the result of rheumatic, or more rarely tuberculous inflam- mation ; in the latter case the liver may be also tuberculous. The adhesions dilate the right auricle, inferior vena cava, and hepatic veins, and thus render hepatic asystole permanent. The condition is thus one of exaggerated nut- meg liver, and the stress of the backward pressure falls on the peritoneal cavity : the veins of the legs thus suffer less from chronic engorge- ment, and oedema of the feet is not induced so readily as in ordinary cardiac lesions. It is possible that at the time of the primary peri- carditis inflammation spreads to the mouths of the hepatic veins, and by weakening their walls leads to dilatation and to a freer entry of blood into them, and that this condition, once established, remains permanently. It is thus possible to explain the connection of adherent pericardium with nutmeg liver and marked ascites, accompanied by less prominent oedema of the legs. I have examined some of these cases, expecting to find an extension of fibrosis from the adherent pericardium along the hepatic veins into the substance of the liver, but have never found any perivenous fibrosis, though the inner walls of the hepatic vein and inferior vena cava are opaque and thickened as is commonly seen in cases of backward pressure. The liver shows marked chronic venous congestion (ramose atrophy) with irregularly scattered areas of fibrosis. There are signs of hyperplasia of the connective tissues, and limited areas exactly like multilobular cirrhosis; but, taken as a whole, the amount is scanty, and large areas may be quite free from fibrosis. The con- dition may be summed up as advanced chronic venous congestion with sporadic cirrhosis. There may be a thin layer of cirrhosis immediately under the capsule, forming a kind of second or inner capsule for the organ, and looking to the naked eye like perihepatitis {cp. nutmeg liver, p. 442). Prognosis and Results.—When the condition of hepatic pseudo-cirrhosis has become established the prognosis is very bad. Tuberculous peritonitis may supervene as a secondary result; this was proved to be the sequence of events in a case recorded by Nachod, where laparotomy a year before death proved the absence of tubercle at that time. Secondary tuberculous infiltration of the portal spaces may then occur. The term cardio-tuberculous cir-