LABOUR, POST-PARTUM HEMORRHAGE 256 Post partum Haemorrhage i Primary Post-partum Haemorrhage . 256 Varieties . . . . . .256 Traumatic Hemorrhage . . . 256 Varieties ...... 256 External Traumatic HiEMORRHAGE . 256 Internal Traumatic H/Emorrhage . . 257 Atonic Haemorrhage .... 258 Concealed Post-partum Htemorrhagb . 261 Secondary Post-partum Haemorrhage . 261 Post-hemorrhagic Collapse . . 262 I. Primary Post-partum Hemorrhage Primary post-partum haemorrhage is the term applied to haemorrhage occurring at any time within six hours after the birth of a child. It is one of the commonest accidents met witli in mid- wifery. It occurs in two distinct varieties :— A. Traumatic htemorrhage. B. Atonic haemorrhage. Traumatic Hemorrhage Traumatic haemorrhage is the term applied to haemorrhage due to laceration of any part of the genital tract, the result of direct or indirect violence. Bleeding due to rupture of the uterus is not, however, included under this head, as in the majority of cases of rupture hfemorrhage is only one of several symptoms, and consequently is better dealt with under the head of Rupture of the Uterus. Varieties.—Two varieties of traumatic haemor- rhage are met with :— 1. External traumatic haemorrhage. 2. Internal traumatic haemorrhage. 1. External Traumatic Hemorrhage.—Ex- ternal traumatic haemorrhage, in which the blood escapes externally, is very much the more common of the two forms. jEtioloijy.—External haemorrhage may result from lacerations occui-ring about the clitoris, perineum, or cervix, during the expulsion of the child. Perineal lacerations very rarely bleed to an extent sufficient to justify the name of haemorrhage. Symptoms. — The symptom of the case is haemorrhage of a varying degree, which is not affected by the contractions of the uterus. Diagnosis.—External traumatic haemorrhage has to be distinguished from atonic haemorrhage, that is, from haemorrhage due to failure of the uterus to contract. Practically, we find that as a rule we commence to treat all cases as if they were atonic haemorrhage, and that it is owing to various points which are determined during this treatment that we make the diag- nosis of traumatic haemorrhage. The first of these points is that the bleeding is found to be unaffected by the contractions of the uterus, the patient bleeding as rapidly when the uterus 1 For accidental and unavoidable hfemorrliage during labour, see "Pregnancy, Hnemorrhage during." is contracted as when it is lax. The second is that while we are douching out the vagina or uterus with a double-channel catheter—Boze- mann's—we notice that thougli blood is coming from the vulva, the fluid which is returning through the catheter is colourless. If the haemorrhage is coming from a laceration of the clitoris or perineum, this latter fact is noticed when the nozzle of the catheter is in the vagina ; if from the cervix, when the nozzle is in the uterus. As soon as we have in this manner roughly localised the site of the haemorrhage, hj carefully examining it the exact bleeding- spot can be found. Treatment.—If the haemorrhage is found to come from a laceration of the clitoris, the easiest and most effective method of checking it is to pass a silk suture deeply below both ends of the laceration with a small curved needle. These sutures, which may if necessary be passed right down to the bone, are then tied tightly, and as a rule the haemorrhage immediately ceases. If the tear is of great length, a third suture may be passed between the other two. These sutures are removed on the eighth day. Occasionally bleeding follows their removal, but if so, it can always be checked by means of a firm compress applied for a few hours. If the haemorrhage is coming from the peri- neum, it will be checked by the ordinary sutures which are inserted to bring together the lacerated perineal body. Haemorrhage coming from a cervical laceration is the most troublesome to check on account of the difficulty of exposing the laceration. If we have an American bullet-forceps or any form of volsella at hand, the cervix is drawn down by means of them. If, however, as frequently happens, we have not a volsella, an extemporised form of cervical tractor can be made in the following manner:—Thread a small curved needle with a long ligature of No. 8 or No. 10 silk. Pass two fingers of the left hand into the vagina to touch the most prominent portion of the cervix. Introduce the needle—held in a needle-holder—into the vagina under cover of the fingers of the left hand, and pass it through the cervix. The ends of the ligature are then knotted togethei', and by traction upon them the cervix can be exposed. The descent of the cervix will be very much facilitated by firm suprapubic pressure upon the fundus. As soon as the source of the haemorrhage has been ex- posed, the latter is checked either by the ligation of a spouting vessel or by the suturing of a laceration. If the site of the haemorrhage cannot be found, the bleeding can be stopped by plugging the utero-vaginal canal with iodo- form gauze. Cervical sutures are to be removed on the eighth day, unless they have also been inserted with the object of bringing together the edges of a laceration ; in such a case they may be left in situ until the fourteenth day.