247 LABOUR, ACCIDENTAL COMPLICATIONS there is very little tendency for the cord to present, owing to the close adaptation of the presenting part to the lower uterine segment. After rupture of the membranes this apposition of the presenting part to the lower segment of the uterus is still closer, as shown by the manner in which a considerable amount of amniotic fluid is retained after escape of the fore-waters, and therefore the chance of the cord becoming prolapsed is minimised. In cases of pelvic, including footling presentations, and in transverse or shoulder presentations, these con- ditions do not obtain to the same extent, so that presentation and prolapse of the cord is not uncommon. Again, in cases of hydramnios and twin pregnancies the excessive distension of the uterus interferes with the normal relation between the presenting part and the lower uterine segment. The same result may be brovight about in cases of obliquity of the uterus and cases of pelvic contraction. Prolapse of the cord occurs more frequently in multiparte than in primiparse, because in the latter the head lies more deeply in the pelvis in the last few months of pregnancy and at the commence- ment of labour. The greater frequency of this accident in cases of excessive length of the cord and low insertion as in cases of placenta prsevia, is easy to understand. Sudden rupture of the membranes occurring whilst the patient is in the erect posture may be a cause of prolapse of the cord, but it is more often associated with some other predisposing cause, such as undue length or contraction of the pelvis. Diagnosis.—Before rupture of the membranes the cord can be felt as a movable coil lying over the presenting part, and may be overlooked unless a careful examination is made. After rupture the presence of a loop of cord in the vagina is easily recognised, and it is hardly con- ceivable that any mistake in the diagnosis could arise. It has been mistaken for a coil of small intestine ; but the absence of any mesentery is at once evident, and the presence of the pulsating umbilical artery confirms the diagnosis. Pulsa- tion in the cord is, however, not always an available means of distinguishing the two, as it is absent where the foetus is dead or where the cord is exposed to pressure. In the former case the cord hangs down as a flaccid loop. When pulsation in the cord cannot be felt, the death of the child should not be assumed till after careful auscultation of the foetal heart. Prognosis.—The mortality to infant life from prolapse of the cord is very high, and depends on the time at which it occurs, and also on the form of presentation. As a general rule, the danger to the child, so long as the membranes are intact, is not great. So long as the cord is only " presenting " it is only exposed to inter- mittent pressure, which does not endanger the vitality of the child. The later the cord becomes prolapsed the better the prognosis for the child. since the condition of the parts will be more favourable for rapid delivery. When, owing to early rupture of the membranes, the cord becomes early prolapsed, the danger to the child is very great. Prolapse of the cord is more serious in vertex presentations than in breech, since the cord is exposed to more dangerous compression against the hard surface of the head. In cases of placenta prtevia and pelvic contraction the prognosis is very unfavourable. Prolapse of the cord is not in itself a cause of danger to the mother, except in so far as this complication calls for active interference in the course of labour, which otherwise might have been allowed to run its natural course. Treatment.—-All methods of treatment which are employed for this complication have for their object the saving of child life. Probably few cases occur in midwifery practice where the results depend more on the judgment and skill with which the necessary manipulations are carried out. Success in treatment—and by success one understands the delivery of a living child—depends on early diagnosis of the pro- lapse. The possibility of this complication makes a vaginal examination after rupture of the membranes a necessary routine practice. If the cord can be felt presenting, make a care- ful examination in order to decide whether the child is alive or dead. Seeing the compara- tively small danger to the child so long as the membranes are intact, one important indication is to avoid their premature rupture. For this reason the woman should be kept in bed during the period of dilatation. An attempt should be made to remove the cord from its unfavourable position by placing the patient in the genu- pectoral position. In this attitude the fundus uteri becomes the most dependent part, and the cord gravitates towards the fundus. The woman should be kept in this position for about ten minutes, and should then be instructed to lie well over on her side with the hips raised by means of a pillow. In some cases, when the head descends after rupture of the membranes, it may force upwards a loop of cord previously presenting out of the way ; but this favourable result cannot be relied upon. A careful watch must be kept on the foetal heart, and the obstetrician must be prepared to interfere if the condition of the foetus calls for it. Should the cord again present after its replacement by the postural method it is best to perform bipolar version, bringing the leg down into the vagina. The half-breech will act as a plug in the lower segment of the uterus and prevent further prolapse. When the membranes are found ruptured when the woman is first seen, and the cord prolapsed, the treatment to be adopted depends on the presentation and also on the extent to which the cervix is dilated. It will be conveni- ent to consider cases of vertex presentation first.