453 LIVER, DISEASES OF which thus form the nodules or hobnails. This fibrosis spreads out from the medium-sized portal canals, and exerts its constricting influence on the branches of the portal vein. The areas of liver substance thus enclosed vary in size, usually being from ^ to ^ inch in diameter, and enclose six to ten lobules, each of which normally measures about xV'aV i'^^^ diameter. The liver substance is much paler than in health, and has a yellowish-brown colour from staining with bile. In exceptional cases there may be haemorrhage either into the hobnails or into the surrounding interstitial tissue; in the latter event, if there is fatty degeneration in the hob- nails, the resemblance to new growth may be very realistic. In some cases the hobnails soften down in the centre. Histology.—In the early or more progressive stages there is small-cell infiltration in and around the portal spaces; these cells are due to hyperplasia of the existing connective tissues of Glisson's capsule ; some leucocytes are also present. In a well-marked case there is an irregular mesh-work of fibrous tissue extending throughout the liver, and dividing it up into variously sized islands of liver tissue. Inas- much as a number of lobules are enclosed within the same fence of fibrous tissue the term multilobular cirrhosis is applied. The number of lobules enclosed in different compartments differs ; in some parts there are many, in other areas a single lobule or half a lobule is separated off from the rest. The French school considers that the fibrosis is not only portal, but also around the sub- lobular veins, or bivenous. It is true that the pressure of the surrounding fibrous trabeculee may obliterate the intralobular veins, and in other ways so alter the appearance of the lobule that it is difficult to count the number of lobules enclosed in the alveoli of the fibrous tissue; but it does not appear, at any rate to me, that there is fibrosis around the intralobular veins. At the margin of the lobules the fibrous tissue can be seen to surround bits of the lobule, and thus to shave off groups of cells from the edge of the lobule. In some large cirrhotic livers, where the mesh-work is still multilobular as a whole, there are parts where it is more diffuse and approaches the monolobular type ; this con- dition of mixed cirrhosis is a transitional stage to biliary cirrhosis. The fibrous tissue varies according to the age and rate at which the process is progressing. Usually there is some well-formed fibrous tissiie containing younger connective tissue and small round cells. The interstitial fibro-nuclear tissue contains numerous small vessels with thin walls derived from the branches of the hepatic artery. Elastic fibres are present in the fibrous tissue. In addition the fibrous tissue contains columns of small cells with deeply-staining nuclei, often described as new bile ducts. This appearance is seen in many conditions, such as gumma, tubercle, lymphadenoma, and acute yellow atrophy, where destruction of the liver-cells is occurring. They have been regarded in the following various lights: as degraded liver-cells reverting to the type of bile ducts, as normal bile ducts which have become exposed by atrophy and recession of the liver-cells, and as a hyperplasia of the liver-cells—an attempt to compensate for the destruction of liver-cells. The latter seems a satisfactory explanation, and this appearance may therefore be spoken of as " pseudo-bile canaliculi." In some cases of malarial cirrhosis, in the liver of haemochromatosis, and in the rare condition of cirrhosis anthracotica, the fibrous tissue may contain opaque masses of pigment. The normal arrangement of the liver-cells in the lobule is lost, probably from the pressure exerted by the contracting fibrous tissue. The cells show degenerative changes, the atrophy and fatty changes are common, while pigmentary infiltration may occur. Several views have been put forward as to the relation of the fibrous tissue formation to the de- generative changes in the liver-cells ; it has been thought that the fibrous tissue is first formed by active proliferation, and that by its sub- sequent contraction, atrophy and degeneration of the liver-cells are induced, while conversely it has been held that the degeneration of the liver-cells is primary and that the fibrosis is only apparent, or at best a replacement fibrosis, and the process comparable to that in a granular arteriosclerotic kidney. Probably the two changes are both due to toxic causes and inde- pendent of each other at first; later fibrous contraction may increase the atrophy of the liver-cells, while in return the products of de- generation of the cells may further stimulate hyperplasia of the connective tissue elements. The large bile ducts and the gall-hladder are usually healthy to the naked eye. The walls of the gall-bladder are, however, sometimes rather thickened and contracted. Biliary calculi are not specially frequent in cirrhosis; in 100 cases of fatal cirrhosis examined at St. George's Hospital 12 showed calculi either in the gall-bladder or the small ducts, the later being bilirubin-calcium calculi. The hepatic artery is usually enlarged inas- much as it supplies the added fibrous tissue in the organ. In the multilobular cirrhosis of hsemochromatosis the artery shows endarteritis. Portal Vein.—The intrahepatic branches are compressed while the trunk is accordingly somewhat dilated. Its walls show some thickening, and its intima is rather opaqvie. The communications between the radicles of the portal vein and the general systemic veins are greatly enlarged and increased in extent. Thrombosis of the portal vein occasionally occurs in cirrhosis. Cirrhosis of the liver, in-