LACTOMETER 313 Lactometer. See Milk {Examination, Lactometers). La,Ctopheniri.—An analgesic and ano- dyne, produced by the action of lactic acid on phenetidin. See Analgesics and Anodynes {Anilin Series). LactophOSphates. ^fe Calcium and ITS Salts (Calcii Phosphas). LactOSCOpe^—An instrument for deter- mining the amount of fat in milk ; the distance at which a candle flame can be seen through the milk is ascertained, and its opacity (and, consequently, the amount of fat contained in it) is thus discovered. Lactose.—Milk-sugar, a disaccharide com- posed of a molecule of dextrose united to a molecule of galactose with dehydration ; CjjHgg Ojj -f- HgO. See Invalid Feeding {Milk and its Products); Pancreas, Physiology of ; Physio- logy, Food and Digestion {Carbohydrates); PuERPERiuM, Physiology {Excretory System). LactOSerum.—Whey. See Milk. Lactose rve.—A white powder obtained from pasteurised milk which has been subjected to a certain degree of lactic acid fermentation, evaporated to dryness, and mixed with sugar, flour, and vegetable albumin ; it is used in the form of an emulsion—in dyspepsia, in atrophic states, and in constipation in children, under similar circumstances to those in which butter- milk has been employed {Merck). LactOSOmatOSe.—A food consisting of desiccated milk and somatose. LactOSuria.—The presence of milk-sugar in the urine, especially in the case of nursing women. See i3iABETES Mellitus (Varieties) : Glycosuria {Puerpej-al Lactosuria); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sugars in Urine). Lactuca. — The lettuce; the common garden lettuce {lactuca sativa) yields a concrete juice, the lactucarium of the United States Pharmacopoeia, which may be used as the syricpus lactucarii or the extractum lactucarii Jiuidum ; it contains a bitter principle lactucin (C22Hjg05.), a crystalline body lactucerin, and lactucic acid (CggHg^Og). Lacuna.—A small cavity, crypt, or space, e.g. the lacunse of bone or Hotvship's lacunar, Marie's lacunce. (small areas of softening in the grey matter of the brain), Morgagni's lacunar (recesses in the mucous membrane of the male urethra), and the lacunai of de Graaf (Graafian follicles of the ovary). Lsehme.—The disease known as "foot- halt " of lambs; a form of rickets met with in the young of animals kept in captivity, and regarded as due to deficiency of lime salts in the food. Lasnnec. See Medicine, History of. Laevulose or Levulose.—A sugar which rotates the plane of polarised light to the left instead of to the right {dextrose), but in other particulars behaves as dextrose. See Inulin ; Pancreas, Physiology of ; Physio- logy, Food and Digestiom {Carbohydrates). LsevulOSUria.—The presence of laevulose in the urine. Lag^neia or Lagnesis.—Excessive venereal appetite (Gr. A.ayi/09, lustful); satyriasis, nymphomania, lagneia furor, or lagnosis. LagOphthalmoS. — The state of in- complete closure of the eyelids during sleep, due to various conditions, such as ectropion or shortness of the lids, paralysis or paresis of the orbicularis muscle, and large size of the eyeball; the state of being "hare-eyed " (Gr. Aaytos, a hare, and 6(ji6akfji6<;, the eye), because hares were sup- posed to be unable completely to close their eyes. See Eyelids, Affections of {Defects in Position). LagrOSt O m a.—Hare-lip. La Grippe. See Infuenza. Lahs' Theory. /S'ee Labour, Mechanism {Flexion).—The theory that flexion of the foetal head is due to its wedge shape, the steeper or occipital end of the wedge descending first. Lakingf of" Blood.—The effect produced upon blood when the red corpuscles are acted on by some solvent {e.g. ether, acids, etc.), and the haemoglobin diffused. Lai ling'. — Imperfect pronunciation or " baby-talk," especially the articulation of r as if it were I. LalOO.—The name of an individual who had a small foetus attached to the anterior aspect of his thorax; an instance of the double monstrosity known as thoraco-parasitus. Lalopathy.—Disordered speech, or, some- times, aphasia. Laloplegia.—Speech-paralysis from any cause. LamalOU. See Balneology {France, Chalybeate Waters). Lambdacism.—An abnormal state of pronunciation, in which there is difficulty in the articulation of I or lambda. Lambdoidal.—Shaped like the Greek I (lambda, X), e.g. the lambdoidal suture between the supra-occiput and the margins of the parietal bones contiguous to it.