110 KIDNEY of the vas to the lymphatics of the ureter, the submucous layer of the lower calyces seems most often affected. The parenchyma of the kidney is then consecutively invaded by pro- gressive extension along the lymphatics and vessels running towards the cortex from the lower papilla. Once started, the changes which ensue, the gradual erosion of the pelvic miicous membrane, and the hollowing out of the parenchyma of the gland, resemble those which are noticeable in primary renal tuberculosis. It is, of course, to be understood that tuber- culous disease in the neighbourhood of the kidney may involve that organ by direct con- tinuity. Thus in psoas abscess, in rare instances, the ureter may be perforated and the disease extend upwards to the kidney and downwards to the bladder. I have met with two such cases on the post-mortem table. In still rarer instances an empyema may perforate the dia- phragm, surround and involve the kidney. Such cases of infection by continuity are, how- ever, too uncommon to merit more than this— a passing reference. Clinical Notes based on Pathological Conditions.—1. Extent of Renal Tissue in- volved.—Primary renal tuberculosis is at first unilateral. This is a rule upon which the practitioner may usually depend. Hence in the earliest stage the disease is often sharply localised and therefore removable by operation. There is no symptom or group of symptoms by means of which one can accurately gauge the extent of destruction of the kidney tissue. One can only assume that when renal colics are a marked feature—that is, when a narrowed outlet exists — the destruction is greater and more rapid than when the ureter is sufficiently patent to admit of the escape of urine and debris. Should the ureter become suddenly and permanently blocked in the eai'lier stages before septic infection, the kidney may first swell and then gradually shrink; under such conditions the kidney power is destroyed, and the opposite kidney takes on the renal function. Should, however, the kidney become blocked after septic infection, the kidney must become pyoneplirotic, and the collection of pus, urine, and debris, if unrelieved, will perforate the capsule and form a perinephritic abscess of an especially destructive character. Hence atten- tion is especially directed to a cross-examination for the symptom of renal colic. Additional evidence is obtained by a bimanual examination of the size of the kidney and in the aspect of the urine whether it is clear (blocked ureter) or murky (open ureter). 2. TIlc Rules of the Spread of Renal Tubercle. — Primary renal tuberculosis, as has been stated, is usually unilateral (80 per cent, Albarran). One organ is affected to begin with. As the disease spreads and cripples the secretory power, the fellow-gland becomes hypertrophied compensatorily. In the ascend- ing invasion the same rule holds; one ureter, its pelvis, and its kidney is attacked before the other, the ureter and pelvis being generally inflamed before the tubercle develops in it. If the invasion be from a primary bladder source there is no clinical rule as to which kidney will become affected, though it is likely that any known pre-existing inflammation of that gland will serve to locate the disease. There is, however, a rule as regards the side first affected in invasion from a genital source. That side on which the disease starts is first affected in 80 per cent of the cases. Thus, right epididymal tubercle, or right-sided vesico- prostatic tubercle, is followed by right-sided renal tubercle. 3. The Stress Resistance of the Fellow-Kidney. —The excretion of the toxins of primary renal tuberculosis is carried on by the opposite healthy gland. A very gradual but distinct deteriora- tion in the renal function is noticeable, and it is supposed that an interstitial nephritis gradually results (Albarran). As the tissue degenerates, it becomes very vulnerable to ascending waves of inflammation from the bladder, which must become involved in tuber- culous processes descending from the original focus. If the action of the fellow-kidney is not cut short by suppression, as so often happens, it becomes, in its turn, the seat of destructive tubercle. 4. The Chronology/ of the Disease. — Like tubercle in other regions, renal tubercle obeys no law of progress. Much depends upon the active or torpid character of the initial deposit, upon the suitability of the nidus, upon the part of the kidney first invaded (the parenchymatous deposit probably developing slower than one near the pelvic mucous membrane); upon the condition of the pelvic orifice of the ureter, upon the incursion of septic microbes from the bladder or gut, and, finally, upon the inherited resistance, nourishment, and hygienic surroimdings of the patient. Dissemination is specially retarded by early and permanent occlusion of the ureter, and by the formation of a thick fibroid envelope around the kidney, induced by leakage of irritating material through the cortex. This condition merits a passing allusion. When the tuber- culous process assumes a chronic type the perirenal fat becomes invaded, and infiltrated, and sclerosed, and the diseased kidney is finally imprisoned in a dense cartilaginous material. At the same time the intimate connection of this armour with the vessels and surrounding viscera renders any attempt at dissection hazardous in the extreme. In such a case subcapsular nephrectomy is indicated. {Cp. Operations on the Kidney.) In the larger number of cases the disease in the kidney has extended to other parts before