363 LARYNX, NEUROSES OF the cat, and Risien Russell in the dog also, that there are separate cortical centres for abduction and adduction of the vocal cords, and, more- over, these observers proved that hoih in the cortex and in the medulla each centre is bilateral in action. Hence it follows (1) that destruction of the centres on one side cannot give rise to paralysis of one vocal cord, since the remaining centre continues to act equally on both vocal cords ; (2) that irritation of one centre, either in the cortex or in the medulla, may cause hilateral spasm of the vocal cords. As will be seen, these facts are of considerable clinical im- portance ; for— (1) In unilateral hemiplegia, e.g. right-sided hemiplegia with motor aphasia, the movements of the vocal cords are unimpaired. (2) Paralysis of one vocal cord cannot be due to a cortical lesion (unless it involves both cerebral hemispheres). The motor fibres for each set of muscles, though running together, are separable into two distinct strands of fibres, both in the re- current nerve (Russell) and in the internal capsule (Semon and Horsley). Semon^s Law.—It is a remarkable fact of great clinical interest, demontrated by Sir Felix Semon, that " there exists an actual difference in the biological composition of the laryngeal muscles and nerve-endings," rendering the ab- ductors more prone to be affected by conditions resulting in paresis and atrophy than the ad- ductors ; " whilst the fact that also in central (bulbar) organic affections, such as tabes, the cell groups of the abductors succumb earlier than those of the adductors, points to the pi'obability that similar differentiations exist in the nerve nuclei themselves." Thus in all progressive organic lesions of the centres or trunks of the motor nerves of the larynx, the more vulnerable abductor muscles are first involved, and, unless the lesion is so gross as to cause total paralysis of the laryngeal nerves from the outset, the abductors are for a time alone affected. This vulnerability of the abduc- tors, as compared with the adductors, is known as Semon's law : the order in which the muscles are involved being (1) the abductors or crico- arytenoidei postici (posticus paralysis) ; (2) the thyro-arytenoidei interni; and (3) lastly, the adductors of crico-arytenoidei laterales. The motor fibres to the larynx are contained in the vagus nerve as it passes out of the skull through the jugular foramen, whence it descends within the sheath of the carotid vessels, passing through the neck to the thorax. In the thorax the course of the nerve becomes different on the two sides of the neck. On the left side it enters the chest between the common carotid and subclavian arteries, and crosses the arch of the aorta, where it gives off the left recurrent nerve which winds backwards round the aorta, and then ascends to the side of the trachea to the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, and enters the larynx behind the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage with the cricoid cartilage. On the right side the vagus nerve passes across the subclavian artery, where it gives off the right recurrent branch, which winds backwards beneath this vessel, and, lying on the apex of the right lung, ascends obliquely to the side of the trachea, whence its course to the larynx is the same as on the left side. The superior laryngeal nerve on either side arises from the inferior ganglion of the vagus, whence it de- scends by the side of the pharynx behind the internal carotid artery, and then, after giving off the external laryngeal branch to the crico- thyroid muscle, pierces the crico-thyroid mem- brane, and enters the larynx with the superior laryngeal artery. Obviously in this long course the motor fibres to the larynx may be irritated or compressed by a large variety of pathological conditions, to which attention will be drawn further on. But it will also be noted that the vagus nerves as far as the inferior ganglion, and, beyond that point, the superior laryngeal nerves, contain both afferent and efferent nerve fibres to the larynx, while the recurrent laryngeal nerve is purely motor nerve. It follows that irritation or compression of one vagus (or of the superior laryngeal nerve) may have a bilateral effect, the peripheral irritation being conducted to the bilateral medullary centre, while irritation or compression of the purely motor recurrent nerve on either side can only affect the corresponding vocal cord. These differences afford an ex- planation of the alternating bilateral spasm and unilateral abductor paralysis sometimes observed in aneurysm of the aortic arch. SENSORY NEUROSES The neuroses of sensation in the larynx comprise ansesthesia, hyperyesthesia, and par- sesthesia. Anaesthesia may be partial or complete, and may involve the whole of the laryngeal mucous membrane, or be confined to the epiglottis or the supraglottic portion, and, further, may be imi- lateral or bilateral. Ansesthesia may be caused by peripheral lesions, e.g. injury to the nerve, diphtheria, etc., or to central lesions, as in bulbar paralysis, tabes dorsalis, epilepsy, and is not infrequently due to hysteria. It is generally associated with motor paralysis of various laryngeal muscles. The symptoms consist mainly in the tendency for food to enter the larynx and produce attacks of choking. It is especially dangerous when the antesthesia is complete and involves the subglottic region, as then no laryngeal spasm and cough result, so that the food particles are prone to pass into the lower respiratory tract and set up " foreign-body " pneumonia.