LARYNX, CONGENITAL 373 LARYNGEAL STRIDOR when the stridor is loud, but at other times it is noiseless. Even in the most severe cases there are occasional brief intervals during which there is no sound audible ; but with this exception the stridor goes on constantly when the child is awake, and sometimes even when he is asleep. Any emotional excitement or any physical cause of deeper breathing, such as exposure to colder air or exertion on sucking, is apt to intensify the sound. The child's power of crying and coughing is quite imafFected. Although the breathing is noisy it is not accompanied by the slightest distress, and there is no cyanosis. There is, however, always marked inspiratory indrawing of the thoracic abdominal walls, except in the very slightest cases. The stridor increases in loiidness during the first few months, and after remaining about the same for a few more months, gradually lessens and disappears spontaneously in the course of the second year. Long after it ceases to occur habitually, however, it is apt to be set up by emotional causes. Etiology.—Great difference of opinion has been expressed as to the causation of congenital stridor. A peculiarity of form of the upper aperture of the larynx is present in most if not in all the cases. This consists in an exaggeration of the normal peculiarities of the infantile larynx. The epiglottis is more folded on itself, and the aryepiglottic folds consequently more closely approximated. They may even be found to be almost touching in cases where the patient has died of respiratory disease accompanied by dyspnoea. Some (Lees, Sutherland and Lack, Variot, Refslund) have regarded this condition as a congenital malformation, and thought it sufficient to cause all the symptoms. By others the symptoms have been attributed to posticus paralysis (Robertson), or to adductor spasm due to adenoids or some other source of irritation (Lbri, E. Smith). One writer has even blamed enlargement of the thymus (Avellis). It is probable, however, that the essential elements of the causation of the condition are two—(1) an arrest of development of the cortical structures which control the coordina- tion of the respiratory movements leading to a choreiform respiratory spasm (not a spasm of the larynx only); (2) the extremely soft collapsible character of the laryngeal structure naturally present in the young infant. These act in the following way : ^— The ill-coordinated and spas- modic character of the breathing gives rise to a constantly repeated sucking-in of the sides of the upper aperture of the soft larynx, and leads very soon to its remaining indrawn and deformed, exactly as the thorax assumes the form known as pigeon-breast when indrawing of its lower segment is constantly repeated for a long period of time. The stridor is probably ' For a fuller account, see a paper by John Thomson and Logan Turner, Brit. Med. Journ., vol. ii., 1900. produced partly at the abnormally approximated aryepiglottic folds and partly in the larynx proper. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis is generally easy. The chief points to be attended to are the time of onset of the symptoms, the evidence of laryngeal obstruction (stridor and chest retrac- tion) without any apparent distress, and the presence of a loud, clear cry and cough. In cases of compression of the trachea by caseous bronchial glands, the stridor is mainly expiratory, the larynx does not move up and down as in cases of intralaryngeal obstruction, and there is much greater respiratory distress. Prognosis. — Uncomplicated cases tend to complete and spontaneous recovery. The presence of respiratory spasm, however, con- stitutes a serious complication to inflammatory diseases of the respiratory organs, so that if bronchitis or pneumonia occur the prognosis must be guarded. Treatment.—No form of treatment has usually any effect on the continuation of the stridor, although cases have been recorded (E. Smith) where removal of adenoids was followed by improvement. The child should, of course, be carefidly guarded against chills. Laryngismus Stridulus Etiology ...... 373 Clinical Features. .... 374 Diagnosis and Prognosis . . . 374 Treatment . . . . . .374 Synonyms : Child-crowing, Spasm of the Glottis. Definition.—Laryngismus has been defined as "a sudden arrest of respiration followed by a long-drawn crowing sound due to inspiration through the narrowed glottis " (Barlow). While this is a good description of the usual type of attack, the arrest of breathing may occur with the thorax in the position of inspiration instead of in that of expiration, and then there is no crowing heard. The most noticeable pheno- menon in an ordinary attack is a spasmodic closure of the glottis, but if the seizure is at all severe the other muscles of respiration partici- pate in the spasm to a varying degree. Etiology.—1. Of the Tendency to Laryn- gismus. Rickets.—In the great majority of cases laryn- gismus occurs in rickety children, and it is certain that rickets is far the most important element in its causation from a practical point of view. Whether it is as closely connected with an active rickety process in the cranial bones, as Kassowitz believes, is very doubt- ful ; but its almost invariable association with rickety phenomena, and its rapid recovery under treatment which cures rickets, is beyond dispute. Age, Sex, etc.—There are, however, several other most important etiological factors. The