287 LABOUR, OPERATIONS—FORCEPS the subject of a Bell's paralysis resulting from compression of the facial nerve, and usually passing off within ten days or a fortnight. Spondylotomy. —See " Embryotomy." 3. Vectis When the midwifery forceps was coming into general use in the end of the seventeenth and beginning of the eighteenth centuries, Roonhuysen, Ruyschl, and the other chiefs of the Amsterdam Academy, were known to be making use of an implement for promoting labour, the nature of which they kept secret. They were enabled to obtain an enactment that prohibited anyone from practising midwifery in Holland who had not purchased their secret, which was a source of revenue to them until it was made public, in 1753, by Visscher van der Poll. The instrument tliey employed, with various modifications, speedily came into general use under the designation of the vectis or lever, and for more than a century competed with the forceps as a means of promoting the advance of the head in cases of tedious and difficult labour. It was used sometimes as a lever of the first order with the mother's pelvis, or, better, with the operator's left hand as a fulcrum; sometimes as an extractor worked as a lever of the third order. It is in the latter fashion that its employment has recently been advocated by Dr. Bartlett of Chicago, the instrument being made with a handle flattened and so elongated as to rest on the forearm as a fulcrum near the elbow. Sometimes it has been used as a single blade of forceps, one of the operator's hands taking the place of the second blade. It has been claimed for it that it is easier of application than forceps and less likely to do harm in extracting, whilst it is often efficacious in aiding rotation in occipito- posterior cases. It has been applied chiefly over the occiput, but may be adapted to the sides of the head or to the brow or face. In some cases its place of application is moved from one part of the head to another. It is, of course, only available when the uterus is in action ; and because of its tendency to slip, and the ease and safety with which in most cases delivery can be effected with forceps, the vectis has fallen almost completely into desuetude. The " levier-prehenseur-mensurateur " proposed by Faraboeuf is in reality a variety of forceps which owes what efficacy it may possess to its second blade. 4. Version Varieties ...... 287 Indications ...... 287 Methods— External 287 Bipolar 288 Internal 289 Practical Rules ..... 290 The operation of version, or turning, consists in the artificial substitution of one presenting part by another. This comprises either the substitution of one pole of the foetus by another, or the conversion of oblique presentations into the presentation of one or other pole so that the long axis of the foetus and uterine cavity correspond. Varieties.—From the definition of the opera- tion it must be apparent that there are two varieties : (1) Cephalic version, in which the head of the foetus is made to present; (2) Podalic version, in which the breech or feet are made to present. General Indications.—The operation is in- dicated :— 1. In all shoulder and oblique presentations. 2. In cases of placenta praevia, where a large area of placenta presents. 3. In pi'olapsus funis during the first stage, when reposition of the cord cannot be accom- plished. 4. In mento-posterior face and brow cases, when rotation backwards of the chin is feared. 5. When rapid delivery is required, and can be most expeditiously performed by changing the presentation. 6. It used to be extensively employed before the introduction of axis traction forceps, and is still recommended by some, in fiat pelves with a conjugate vera over three inches. Methods.—The operation may be performed by three methods, known respectively as the external, bipolar, and internal. External Method.—To perform this operation the patient is placed in the dorsal position with Fig. 1.—External version (Schiiffe). the shoulders raised and knees flexed. The hands of the operator are placed externally over the bare abdomen, one on each pole of the foetal ovoid. By a series of moderate impulses with the respective hands in opposite directions during the intervals of uterine contractions, the foetus may be made to revolve on its transverse axis till one or other pole is brought to present. The presentation having been altered, is is well