LIVER, DISEASES OF 465 pigment in the liver and pancreas sets up chronic interstitial fibrosis. When the fibrosis in the pancreas has reached a certain stage diabetes is set up ; the cases of bronzed diabetes described by Hanot and Chauffard, of which Anschtitz has collected twenty-four examples, all in men, are therefore the final result of hsemochromatosis. The liver is usually enlarged, presents the naked-eye and microscopic appearances of multi- lobular cirrhosis, and is pigmented. The pig- ment occupies the liver-cells, which become degenerated, the cells in the periphery of the lobule are chiefly infiltrated, but the entire lobule may be affected. The pigment is also found in the fibrous tissue of the organ. The pigment is of two kinds—(i.) iron containing hsemosiderin; (ii.) a yellow iron-free pigment, termed by v. Recklinghausen hfemofuscin. The hepatic artery shows endarteritis ob- literans. Anthracosis, Silicosis, etc. — In rare in- stances particles of carbon and other foreign substances are found in cirrhotic livers. Cases have been described in coal and copper miners and stone-masons. Particles of silver have also been detected in the liver after its medicinal administration. These conditions are all very rarely seen, and have no clinical importance. Microscopic Pigmentation of the cells of the liver is seen in a number of conditions :— (i.) Pernicious Anaemia.—The cells of the peripheral zones of the lobules contain free iron. When acted upon with ferro-cyanide of potassium and dilute hydrochloric acid, the pigment turns of a bluish-green colour. (ii.) In some causes of leukaemia a similar infiltration of the cells of the peripheral parts of the lobules of the liver with free iron is seen. I have also seen the same pigmentation in lymphadenoma. (iii.) In chronic venous congestion the "nut- meg " liver shows hsemoidin in and around the cells surrounding the intralobular vein. This deposit of pigment must be distinguished from that of pernicious anaemia, from which it differs both in its situation and micro-chemical re- actions. (iv.) In malarial cachexia—a condition ap- proaching that of haemochromatosis—the liver- cells may become pigmented and atrophied. This pigmentary change may be associated with cirrhosis. (v.) In some cases of cirrhosis and of new growth in the liver the cells may show pig- mentation without the existence of any general deposit of pigment in the body. Possibly this may be due to local chronic venous congestion, haemorrhages, or haemolysis. (vi.) In biliary obstruction the liver-cells are degenerated, and occupied by granules of bile pigment. VOL. v (vii.) Local pigmentation with blood pigment occurs around the scars of old abscesses, gummata, and sometimes in the immediate neighbourhood of innocent naevi—" melanotic angioma." Calcification of the Liver.—This condition is of no clinical importance, though pathologically interesting. It may be briefly referred to under two heads :— (1) Primary Calcification.—This is extremely rare in man, but it is not infrequent in horses to find primary calcification of the branches of the hepatic artery. It has, however, been seen around the hepatic arteries in chronic interstitial nephritis (Brill and Lebman), and in a case of tuberculous hip disease, where it was thought to be due to the deposit of salts absorbed from the affected bones (Babes). (2) Secondary calcification in gummata, in the cicatrices of old abscesses, and in the walls of hydatid cysts, is by no means uncommon. Calcification also occurs in the walls of chroni- cally inflamed gall-bladders. A remarkable case of diffuse calcification of the liver, which had to be cut with a saw (Targett), was possibly secondary to syphilitic change. Carrel has recorded a case where laparotomy was undertaken with the diagnosis of calcified gall-bladder, and a calcified psorospermial tumour was found. Sometimes hard masses are found embedded and encysted in the liver substance. They are generally intrahepatic biliary calculi due to drying up of the contents of cystic dilatations of the bile ducts. Liver in LeukjEmia or Leucoctth^mia The liver is frequently very greatly enlarged in cases of leukaemia; 5 or 6 lbs. is a common weight for the organ, but it has been found to weigh more than double this. Enlargement of the liver chiefly occurs in lymphatic leukaemia, the rarer form of the disease. There may be very advanced spleno-medullary leukaemia without any manifest hepatic enlargement. The liver is smooth and uniformly enlarged; the increase in size depends on infiltration of the portal spaces with leucocytes; the infiltration can sometimes be easily seen arovmd the larger portal spaces with the naked eye. In addition the individual lobules become separated from each other by crowds of leucocytes, so that the lobules are definitely outlined. The leucocytic infiltration is not limited to the portal spaces or, indeed, to the peripheral parts of the lobules, for the capillaries inside the lobules become stuffed with leucocytes, and in some cases the leucocytic infiltration of the lobules is very widespread. The liver-cells, especially in the centre of the lobule, show the effects of impaired nutrition, and may be fatty or atrophied. At the periphery of the lobule the liver-cells are sometimes seen to be infiltrated with free iron, 30