KIDNEY 114 mains quiescent, the fellow-gland doing the work of the body. The useless kidney is, however, liable to recrudescence on the intercurrence of some debilitating fever such as epidemic influenza. Even a cold, a wrench of the body, or a blow on the loin, will start the disease afresh. Treatment.—It will be remembered that the disease in the kidney, when primary, remains localised for months; and it is in this stage that the chance for operative interference curing the disease is greatest. It is in this period that the acumen and judgment of the practitioner is of such vital importance to the future well-being of his patient. I cordially agree with the justice of Newman's remark that the practitioner who makes an early diagnosis in a case of primary renal tuberculosis renders a service to the patient as valuable as that of the surgeon, who at a later date performs a successful nephrotomy or nephrectomy. Serum Therapy.—{a) In the "fixed renal pain " group. //" tubercle 1ms been found and there are no symptoms of bladder irritation, a course of Koch's new tuberculin should be tried, on the chance that the disease is limited, and that it may become so affected by the injection as to break down and pass by the natural channel, for we are quite unable to say how much of the kidney is affected. A course of six injections is cautiously given, one every third day into the thigh, the skin being first carefully cleansed with soap, carbolic lotion, and finally ether— a Liier syringe is the best form of instrument to employ. The initial dose is Trig- mg., and the strength is gradually increased thus: ^l-^j, 2TO> tW> T^i tV' 1 ™g- The injections are suspended if fever or renal pain develops. If tubercle cannot be found in the urine it is of paramount importance, in cases where the family history of phthisis is marked, to cysto- scope and examine the ureteric orifice and its immediate neighbourhood. (b) In the " renal colic " group. In treating primary renal tuberculosis marked by renal colic, I object to the use of Koch's tuberculin, for I hold that the renal colic is absolute evidence of the tuberculous invasion and thickening of the ureteric channel, and the swelling in the deposit in the wall of the tube caused by Koch's tuberculin is quite sufficient to block the tiny channel which remains. The debris and broken-down tissue which is released in the kidney cannot pass, and is therefore retained. Swelling of the organ ensues and extension of the disease follows, for the thick inflammatory wall which the disease has already constructed around the dangerous foci is over- stretched and perforated. It is probably better in the renal colic class to nephrectomise im- mediately after cystoscopy of the ureteric orifice. Treatment of Ascending Renal Tuberculosis.— The treatment of ascending renal tuberculosis depends largely upon the cystoscope. An exami- nation of the \u-eteric orifices under the elec- tric light determines if the kidney is affected, and which, and how far the ureter is involved, also whether the bladder is so far ulcerated as to render remediable measures of value. If the ulceration in the bladder has not advanced to the muscle area, if it is limited to patches in the postero-superior wall, if one kidney is decidedly affected, I nephrectomise the diseased gland, taking away as much of the ureter as possible, and after the patient is healed I treat the bladder by means of Koch's new tuberculin. But I hold it a doubtful expedient to use serum therapy in the ascending form of renal tuber- culosis until the kidney has been removed. Medici7ial.—Neither the fixed pain nor the renal colics are severe as a general rule; both are amenable to opiates. The administration of small doses of sandal oil in capsule relieves the pyelitis ; hexamethylentetramine (gr. v.) or boric acid, ammoniac benzoate, or salol, keep the urine as sterile as is possible. Creasote occasionally seems beneficial. Methylene blue in pill is worthy of a trial. When the disease has reached the bladder its distressing effects must be combated on the principles laid down for cystitis, the practitioner bearing in mind the intolerance of the urethra to instrumentation and the resentment of the tuberculous bladder to irrigation. Strict hy- giene, a generous diet, with fat and sugar, if these articles are well borne by the digestion; a high and dry climate, if obtainable—are all that can be done to alleviate and arrest the spread of the disease. Care should always be taken to impress upon the patient the necessity for adding carbolic acid to the chamber utensil in order to prevent the spread of the disease. The following experiment endorses the wisdom of such a proceeding. Five rabbits were con- fined in a box and made to breathe vapour from an atomiser charged with the urine of two jihthisival patients. After a couple of months all the animals were found markedly tuberculous. Operative.—For primary renal tuberculosis. Operative.—Two courses are open. If, on exploration, the disease is limited to a single cavity or to a small area, nephrotomy may be performed and the entire disease curetted out. Against this is the great uncertainty as to how far the disease has involved the gland, and the danger of allowing tuberculous material to foul the operation wound and the exposed perirenal tissue. Nephrectomy or nephro-ureterectomy is the operation which must be performed in most cases, even when taken early; by it the disease is removed absolutely, and with it the greater part of the ureter; the remainder of this tube being curetted or energetically dealt with.