KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF 138 fairly preserved, and the flexion is due to the contraction of the posterior part of the capsule and the soft structures in the ham, extension may be given a trial; but if it fail, all the shortened structures should be divided by the open method, by means of an oblique incision, made from above downwards across the popliteal space. Forcible correction of the deformity is to be avoided unless it be done in stages ; with each step towards the extended position the limb is to be encased in plaster-of-Paris. When there is fibrous or osseous anTcylosis in the flexed position the procedure varies in diff'erent cases. In patients who are still growing, one may succeed with a modified arthrectomy and the removal of a thin slice of bone. In adults, the usual procedure is to remove a wedge of bone. In the bony ankylosis of growing patients, we may either divide the femur above the level of the joint, or wait until the patient is nearly fully grown, and remove a wedge of bone as in the adult. When the flexion is extreme there is a risk of overstretch- ing the popliteal vessels, and of interfering with the circulation in the foot; in these cases it is safer to remove another slice of bone. When there is a genu valgum deformity, one may practise an osteotomy of the femur as in rickety knock-knee. 3. Pyogenic Diseases Acute and chronic serous synovitis. Purulent synovitis. Acute arthritis of infants. Joint suppurations in pytemia. Severer forms of septic arthritis. Infections from penetrating wounds. Gonorrhceal aff'ections of knee. Acute osteomyelitis of lower end of femur. Acute osteomyelitis of upper end of tibia. Chronic osteomyelitis—Brodie's abscess. These include a number of diseased conditions resulting from infection through the blood- stream of the joint, or of the structures in its neighbourhood, with the common pyogenic organisms, or with special bacteria such as the gonococcus or typhoid bacillus. The direct infections resulting from a penetrating woiuid of the joint may also be conveniently described under this head. The clinical features vary with the gravity of the infection, and are very similar to those met with in other joints; they may assume the form of an acute serous synovitis, which may recover spontaneously, or may subside into a chronic synovitis or hydrops. Exudation into the joint is always a prominent feature. A characteristic persistent and relajisinc/ form of hydrops is met with in the knee, in association with latent forms of staphylococcus osteomyelitis, e.g. Brodie's abscess, in the lower end of the femur or upper end of the tibia. The purulent forms of synovitis in the knee present wide variations with regard to their severity and progress. There are certain mild forms called " catarrhal" by Volkmann, in which the joint fills with pus without any periarticular phlegmon, and without any de- structive changes in the joint, and in which, if the pus is evacuated, recovery usually takes place with complete restoration of function. This type is most often observed in the "acute arthritis of infants" related to staphylococcus osteomyelitis of the tibial or femoral epiphysis, or one of the adjacent ossifying junctions. The joint suppurations in 2^y^inia, which especially affect the knee, are usually remarkably latent; there is, however, no hard and fast line between the milder forms and those which are serious and progressive. In addition to the presence of fluid (sero-pus or pus) in the joint, there is a pronounced periarticular phlegmon, oedema of the surrounding skin—and, it may be, of the leg and foot—destructive changes in the articular surfaces in the direction of caries, attended with severe pain, rigidity of the joint, and startings at night; the pus within the joint perforates the capsule and spreads upwards into the thigh beneath the quadriceps, backwards into the popliteal space infecting the bursse, and down- wards into the calf. The septic fever accom- panying the severer forms of septic arthritis may readily merge into pyaemia, and cause the death of the patient. The author has observed one case of destructive purulent arthritis in the knee of an adult, which had become stiff from disease in childhood ; the relapse in adult life appeared to have originated from a recent pyelitis; both the bones and the soft parts in the region of the knee were i-iddled with suppuration, and in spite of amputation through the thigh the patient died of septictemia. The septic synovitis and arthritis following ujjon penetrating tcounds of the hnee are usually of a severe and progressive character ; they are met with more commonly from accidental wounds with a chisel, or awl, or penknife, or the spike of a railing, from gunshot wounds, or compound fractures involving the knee, but they may follow upon such operations as wiring a fractured patella, removing a loose body or semilunar cartilage. Practically all the severe forms of pyogenic arthritis result in ankylosis, which is more often osseous than fibrous ; in treating them, it is therefore of great importance to keep the bones in a straight line by means of splints and weight extension. The treatment in pyogenic diseases of the knee must be directed to meet the features of each individual case. The general indications are to elevate and immobilise the limb in the extended position on a posterior splint, preferably a gutter of Gooch's splinting reaching from the fold of the buttock to beyond the foot, and to