JAUNDICE 53 chromia), does not of itself give rise to jaundice. The frequent clinical association of jaundice with conditions giving rise to destruction of red blood corpuscles is due to the fact that the hfemolysis is of toxic origin; inflammation of the small intrahepatic bile ducts is another manifestation of the toxsemia. The Question of so-called Jaundice from Poly- cholia. — When jaundice was found to be associated with bile in the faeces it was supposed that there was such an excessive secretion of bile (polycholia), that an excessive amount of bile was absorbed from the intestines and passed through the liver into the general circulation. Bile may be present in the fteces of jaundiced patients under various conditions; thus, in obstruction of one hepatic duct icterus results, but the other hepatic duct pours bile into the duodenum. When a calculus lies in a common duct it may act like a ball valve, and allow bile to escape into the bowel at intervals ; in biliary cirrhosis bile is usually present in the faeces. In none of these examples is there any suggestion to the effect that an excessive secretion of bile exists. In hsemohepatogenous or toxaemic jaundice there is in the early stage a secretion of bile rich in bile pigment (poly chromia) and poor in bile acids, the pigment appearing in the ex- creta ; later, obstruction in some of the small intrahepatic ducts occurs and produces jaundice. This is the explanation of so-called jaundice from polycholia. But it should be pointed out that, strictly speaking, there is not an excessive secretion of normal bile (polycholia), but only of bile pigment (polychromia), and that the bile salts, far from being increased, are diminished. The Question of the so-called Jaundice from Suppression of the Bile-secretiny Function of the Liver.—It was formerly supposed that the liver might, from nervous or other influences, cease to secrete bile, and that an accumulation of refuse blood-pigment in the circulation resulted, and became changed, without the intervention of the liver, into bile pigment. Emotional jaundice was instanced ; but there is no proof of the liver thus striking work, and moreover, inasmuch as bile is only formed by the liver, if its bile-forming functions were suppressed jaundice could not result. This last argument, indeed, is fatal to the idea of jaundice from suppression of the bile-forming function of the liver. In acute yellow atrophy and phosphorus poisoning the jaundice is almost certainly due to obstruction in the small intrahepatic ducts from inflammation, and to the passage of bile into the lymphatics, which results as a natural consequence. In long-continued biliary ob- struction the ducts contain clear mucous fluid devoid of bile, and it might be, and indeed has been, thought that the liver ceased to secrete bile under these conditions ; but here the liver cells, as shown by the presence of bile pigment inside them, still manufacture bile, which passes almost directly into the lymphatic vessels and so into the circulation. " Urobilin Jaundice.''''—A few words may be added on this subject. Darkening of the skin may occur in the melanaemia of malaria, in haemochromatosis, and in other conditions, but does not really resemble jaundice. It has, however, been thought that a staining of the skin indistinguishable from jaundice may be due to other pigments than those of bile. Thus in some cases where there is an excessive amount of urobilin in the urine a yellow tinging of the skin has been referred to the effects of iirobilin, and not of bile, in the circulation. Excessive urobilinuria may occur without any jaundice; when they are associated together the jaundice is due to bile pigment and not to staining of the skin with urobilin. As Hunter points out, the term urobilin jaundice is a misnomer, and moreover is confusing and mis- leading. Classification.—Jaundice may be divided, therefore, into— (1) Obstructive—due to some gross obstruc- tion to the flow of bile along the larger bile ducts. (2) Toxjemic or hsemohepatogenous jaundice, where there is obstruction in the small intra- hepatic ducts, due to poisons excreted from the blood into the bile ducts setting up cholangitis. Jaundice is therefore always due to obstruction, and is a syinptom, not a disease in itself. It may be a symptom of a purely local condition, viz. pressure on the large ducts, or, on the other hand, be the result of a general infection or intoxication setting up changes in the small intrahepatic bile ducts resulting in obstruction. TOX.EMIC OR H^MOHEPATOGENOUS JaUNDICE General Characters and Distinctions from Obstructive Jaundice.—Toxaemic or haemohepato- genous jaundice is essentially a symptom of some underlying infection, or possibly intoxica- tion, and is usually subordinate to its other constitutional symptoms. The patient suffers comparatively little from the direct results of bile pigment circulating in the blood, but is definitely ill from the general toxaemic state. The jaundice is slight as a rule; in acute yellow atrophy and icterus gravis the yellow colour may be bright and marked, but the dark green or black tint of chronic obstructive jaundice does not occur. Bile pigment is found in the urine. It has usually been stated that bile acids are either absent, or at any rate not present to the same extent as in jaundice due to mechanical ob- struction of the larger ducts; but little im- portance can be attached to results obtained by Pettenkoffer's well-known test, since, as shown by Hunter, it is entirely unreliable as employed in ordinary clinical practice.