24 INVALID FEEDING to the soups already recommended for con- valescence, the following slightly richer recipes are commendable; they are not too rich, and yet contain sufhcient nourishment for them to form an important item in the diet:— Brunoise Soup 1 carrot (young). 1 turnip (young). 2 leaves of celery. Flower of small boiled cauliflower. 1 onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 pint of water. 1 pint milk. 1 tea-spoonful of salt and pepper. 2 oz. of stale bread, toasted. Stew the ingredients, except the toast, together for one hour, then break the toast in pieces, add it to the rest, and stew all together for another hour. Pass all through the sieve and return to the stewpan to get hot. Lentil Soup Wash the lentils thoroughly in cold water, and add the lentils to water in the proportion of I lb. lentils to a gallon of water or of second stock. Add pepper, salt, onion, turnips, carrot, and celery. Boil all for three or four hours. Pass through fine wire sieve or colander, put on a few minutes to heat, and send to table with toast cut in dice. A little currie powder may be added if desired. This soup is somewhat flatulent to those of weak digestion, but if made without the additional vegetables it will be found very acceptable to the most delicate stomach. Pea soup served with dried mint, and haricot bean soup, can be made in the same way. Potato Soup 1 lb. potatoes. 1 leek. 1 onion. 1 oz. of butter. • 1 pint milk. 1 pint water. Stew the potatoes, put them with leek, onion, and butter into a pint of boiling water in a stewpan. Boil until the vegetables are soft, then pass them through a sieve, adding a pint of hot milk to help the union. Put them all into the stewpan until it boils, then serve. Serve with dice of fried bread. Rice mid Tomato Soup 1 pint of mutton, veal, or chicken broth. 1 dessert-spoonful Patna rice. 3 fresh tomatoes. A little salt. Put the broth into a clean lined saucepan, with the rice well washed, and the tomatoes wiped and cut in slices. Boil slowly for half an hour, stirring occasionally; then rub through a hair or fine wire sieve. Heat again, season to taste, and it is ready for serving. Fish Fish are all allowable for old people. The oily fishes—such as salmon, herring, mackerel— are the only ones that are apt to disagree with digestion, unless taken in small quantities. In addition to the usual methods of boiling, frying, and baking fish, already described, a variety of dishes may be made from this class of food that are found to be appetising as well as quite satisfying. Boiled Cod or Haddock Roes.—Wash the roe well; then weigh it and tie it up in a piece of muslin or a pudding cloth. Put it into a saucepan or fish kettle, with enough boiling water to cover it. Add one tea-spoonful of vinegar and ^ tea-spoonful of salt to each quart of water. Boil slowly, allowing twenty minutes to the pound, or until the roe feels quite firm to the touch. Lift out, drain well, and serve as much as will be required at one time. It can be served with plain cold butter or white sauce. Grilled and Fried Roe.—The roe must be boiled first. When it is cold, cut into slices half an inch thick with a sharp knife. To grill, grease the grill or gridiron with a little butter, and make it quite hot. Lay the slices of roe on it and broil in front of a clear fire for five or seven minutes. Serve this very hot. To fry, melt 1 oz. butter in a frying-pan; when smoking hot put in the pieces of roe. Fry them a nice brown colour on both sides. When ready, lift out and drain on a piece of double paper. Serve very hot. Fish Baked in Batter \ lb. uncooked fish, haddock, or sole. 1 oz. flour. ^ gill milk. 1 egg. 2" OZ. butter. Pepper, salt, and lemon juice. First make the batter; rub the flour through a wire sieve, and make it free from lumps, and put it into a basin. Beat up the egg with a fork and add it to the flour; beat with a wooden spoon until quite smooth and free from lumps. Then add the milk and beat for a few minutes longer : the more the batter is beaten the lighter it will be. Have the fish free from skin and bone, and cut into small pieces. Lay these at the foot of a small greased pie-dish, and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Pour the batter over, and put the rest of the butter in small pieces on the top.