LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 220 let and is stretching the perineum. This early rotation is one of the features of labour with the small round pelvis. In labour with a normal pelvis the head advances during each pain, and recedes in the intervals between the pains; and after the soft parts have turned its long diameter till it lies antero-posteriorly, there is nothing to turn it into any other position. But if the pelvis is of the small round class, and the head is turned forwards by the bones, when it recedes between the pains its position is still governed by the bones ; and it therefoi-e turns back again, so that its long diameter may still lie in the longest diameter of the pelvis, which, after the recession of the head, is the oblique. This variability of position is very characteristic of the small round pelvis. When the passage of the head through the pelvis is difficult, either because the pelvis is a small roimd one, or because the child is very large, the difficulty is not, as in the flat pelvis, at the brim only, and there only in the conijiigate dia- meter, bounded by the sacral promon- tory and the sym- physis pubis, but it is throughout the whole pelvic canal, and the head is pressed upon all round by the pelvic canal. Hence where the head is so pressed upon — the girdle of contact—the re- turn of blood from the part of the scalp which is presenting is im- peded. Hence early and extensive oedema of the part—in other words, a large caput succedaneum. The return of blood is also impeded from the lower part of the vagina and vulva, and hence oedema of the vagina and labia. But as the blood from these latter parts can return to the heart by other channels than those pressed on by the advancing head, the oedema of the labia is not so great, and is later in forming than the caput succedaneum. The swelling of the labia is visible ; the vagina is felt to be dry and swollen. With the small round pelvis the obliquity of Naegele is absent; for the head is not hindered in descent by the saci'al promontory—it enters the pelvis without difficulty, but meets with hindrance to its passage through it. The head often enters the small round pelvis with posterior obliquity ; but I know not that the existence of this obliquity materially affects the course of labour. The passage of the head through the small round pelvis is helped by moulding of the head. The head being pressed upon all round, there is a general compression of the head mainly Fia. 26.—Pressure marks on head after a labour with small round pelvis. affecting the suboccipito-frontal measurement, and elongation of its long diameter, the vertico- mental. Grooves and dints in the bones are rare. There is sometimes a red stripe on the skin where it passed the promontory ; this runs from the parietal bone downwards and forwards towards the jaw or eye. At birth the occipital and frontal bones are commonly pressed under the parietal bones, and the posterior-lying parietal bone underneath the anterior ; but this over- riding is effaced within a few days. Lateral asymmetry of the skull is a frequent result of prolonged labour, both with the small round pelvis and with the flat pelvis ; but I think it more common and more marked with the small round pelvis. The reason is in the projection of the sacral promontory. As the head descends into the small round pelvis the half of the head that lies behind meets with more resistance, and hence gets pushed forwards (speaking with refer- ence to the head). In a flat pelvis the resist- ance offered by the promontory to the descent of the biparietal diameter leads to the displace- ment backwards of the half of the head that lay behind. Rupture of the uterus occurs less fre quently with the small round pelvis than with the flat pelvis; because in the former, if the head nips the cervix so tightly as to prevent it rising, such pressure is exerted all round the pelvis, and so quickly produces oedema of the vagina and vulva that the need for prompt treatment is soon apparent. In the foregoing pages I have described the common kinds of slight pelvic deformity and the mechanism of labour occurring with them. From the point of view of the practical obstetrician these are more important than the greatly deformed pelves, because (1) they are common, while great deformity is rare. (2) By recognising them early and managing labour properly, a living child can often be delivered, and the mother always saved injury from pro- tracted labour; their accurate diagnosis requires full knowledge and careful examination ; and the decision as to the best treatment is often difficult. Great pelvic deformity is, as it were, forced upon the notice of the doctor, and when discovered there is no doubt as to the proper treatment. (3) When the head cannot pass the pelvis, or cannot pass it without being first crushed, the mechanism of its passage is not important. Rarer Forms I now describe the rarer forms of pelvic con- traction, and I shall point out the important features special to labour with each. The flat, the small round, and the different kinds of rickety pelvis are the common kinds of contracted pelvis—those which anyone who has a large midwifery experience is sure to meet. Some of the rare forms are interesting on account of the light they throw on the development of the pelvis.