185 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM cause it to be more readily displaced ; and in these cases the whole uterus lies higher than usual in the abdomen, and it and its contents are more readily displaced. A. placenta iwmvia fills up the brim and renders the seat of the head less secure. The presentations of the foot and knee are brought about by a want of close fitting between the breech and the brim, whereby a part of the presentation is allowed to prolapse in front of the rest. Positions.—The positions are named according to the direction in which the sacrum looks. They correspond, therefore, to the positions of the vertex. The diameter, however, which governs the rotations of the pelvis of the child iti the par- turient canal is the bitrochanteric, which is at right angles to the sacro-pubic, and may be in either oblique diameter of the pelvis, with the sacrum facing either backwards or forwards. The positions with the sacrum forwards are commoner that sacro-posterior ones, owing to the lumbar convexity of the mother fitting more easily into the ventral concavity of the child. Diagnosis and Mechanism First Breech.—Left sacro-anterior. The bitrochanteric diameter lies in the left oblique diameter. Diagnosis.— On abdominal examination the back of the child is found to lie on the left side of the uterus, and to be continued upwards into the easily recognised head which occupies the fundus. The foetal heart is heard to the left of the navel, a little above it. Per vaginam, the cleft between the buttocks lies in the right oblique diameter. Usually about the middle of the furrow the anus may be made out, and in front and to the left of this the coccyx and sacrum with the sacral spines, near the foramen ovale. It is not easy to dis- tinguish the sex of the child by its genital organs at this stage. Mechanism. — The breech descends with a rotation of the anterior trochanter, the left, to the front, obeying the shape of the pelvis and of the gutter of the pelvic floor. The left trochanter appears at the vulva, and the right trochanter forms the outer extremity of the curve produced by the pelvis revolving round the left trochanter as a centre. This revolution is the same as that of the head round the suboccipital region in vertex mechanisms. The revolution causes a lateral flexion of the trunk, for the shoulders lie pretty well in the plane of the brim. Rotation is combined with slight extension of the trunk, for the child does not rotate so completely as to bring its bitro- chanteric diameter into the exact antero-posterior diameter of the outlet. This, again, is quite comparable to the slight lateriflexion of the head found in vertex cases at this stage (p. 176). Both buttocks are born together. An external rotation takes place immediately the hips are free, for the shoulders are now lying in an oblique diameter, and the trunk has acquired a twist. The hips, in consequence, rotate a little way back so as to occupy their former position, the sacrum looking slightly forwards. As the shoulders now come down they rotate into the antero-posterior diameter of the pelvis ; the left shoulder forms the centre of a revolution in which the right sweeps down the posterior wall of the canal, and both shoulders are born together. The head comes into the pelvis somewhat flexed. The occipito-frontal diameter lies in the left oblique with the occiput forwards. The occiput, as the head descends, rotates to the front, obeying the shape of the outlet. The longest diameter, the mento-vertical, remains as far as it is allowed by the connection of the head with the neck, in the axis of the canal, and it is on this coincidence of axes that the proper delivery of the head greatly depends. The nape of the neck is now lying against the lower edge of the pubic arch, and the whole head revolves round this point, the chin soon appear- ing at the vulva. The vertex is the last part of the head to be born. The delivery of the head is the critical part of breech presentation, for not only is the progress at this stage slow, owing to the fact that the uterus has contracted down to its smallest useful size, and thus leaves the expulsion to be completed by the vaginal and abdominal muscles, but the child is in a precarious condition. For the placental area is contracted, and the blood- supply to the placenta is much diminished ; the cord is suffering pressure between the head and the pelvic wall ; and the body-surface of the child is very liable to be so stimulated by the cold air in which it now finds itself as to bring about an inspiratory effort by reflex action, and to possibly fill the lungs of the child with liquor amnii, meconium, and blood contained in the vagina. The methods of assisting the delivery of the after-coming head will be considered else- where. As the head rotates into the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet it brings the trunk round in the same direction, and causes it to face towards the mother's back, the left thigh and shoulder lying close to the mother's right thigh. Second Breech.—Right sacro-anterior. The bitrochanteric diameter lies in the right oblique. Diagnosis.—Per Abdomen.—The back is to the right, and the limbs to the left. The head is felt at the fundus. The foetal heart is heard to the right of, and above, the navel. Per vaginam, the sacrum is found near the right foramen ovale, and the cleft between the buttocks runs in the left oblique diameter.