144 KNEE-JOINT, INJUKIES OF Wounds of Knee-Joint.—All wounds of the knee-joint are grave injuries owing to the presence of the large synovial membrane and its pouches, and to the risk of septic infection, the instrument causing the injury being rarely aseptic. Symptoms.—The chief difficulty, especially in 2Jimctured wounds, is to decide whether or not the joint has been opened. The escape of synovial fluid is certain evidence of penetration of the joint. Fluid may, however, come from a synovial sheath or a bursa, though not in the same amount. If there be no escape of synovial fluid the rapid swelling of the joint is a very suggestive sign. Where there is doubt, great caution should be exercised in the use of a probe ; frequently the instrument enters at a distance from the joint and produces a more or less valvular wound, thus preventing the ready escape of fluid. In GUNSHOT wounds the joint is usually unmistakably involved. Bullets striking the large and cancellous extremities of the bones in the neighbourhood of the knee-joint frequently drill cleanly through them. In the past war in South Africa cases have been recorded in which the condyles of the femur have been drilled through without fracture taking place. The patella is usually drilled, but may be fractured, and numerous cases have occurred in which the bullet has passed through the knee-joint and perforated the femur or tibia as well. The small bore and the high velocity of the bullets are responsible for this peculiarity. The range appears to have little effect in determining the extent of the injury. Hsemar- throsis is a frequent symptom, but the swelling usually subsides rapidly. In the Chitral cam- paign, where bullets of larger calibre and less velocity were used, the injuries were much more severe. A bullet striking the patella and femur produced extensive fracturing of the bones, and sometimes the cavity of the knee-joint was converted into a mere bag of comminuted fragments of bone. The upper end of the tibia is much more liable to splinter than the lower end of the femur, and the fracture may extend into the joint. Treatment.—All wounds should be carefully cleansed with soft soap and turpentine, and then washed with corrosive or biniodide of mercury lotion 1-1000 or 1-2000. A clean incised wound may be sutured at once ; ragged edges should be trimmed, and if much bruising, it is better not to aim at immediate union. In severe wounds and in gunshot wounds, accompanied by injury to bones, the treatment used almost invariably to be amputation. The experience of the past war has been very different—the recoveries from gunshot wounds of the knee being numerous, and with useful limbs. These excellent results have been due, not so much to the facilities for antiseptic surgical practice, which was often very difficult to carry out efficiently, but to the general favourable surroundings of the patients. The after-treatment of wounds of knee-joint should consist in rest on a splint until the woiind is healed and any effusion has subsided, and then gradual movement and light support of the knee. Complications. — 1. Acute septic arthritis; the symptoms are rapid swelling of the joint, with redness, heat, pain, oedema, and fever. If limb is not controlled the knee becomes flexed. Erosion of cartilage gives rise to agonising pain when the joint is moved, and the characteristic starting pains at night. Pus tends to burrow among the muscles, and secondary abscesses and pyaemia may result. If sepsis is suspected the joint should be aspirated, and if the fluid is becoming purulent the joint should be freely incised on both sides and drained after irrigation with 1-2000 corrosive. The pouches, especially that beneath the quad- riceps, should be carefully washed out and a tube inserted into each. Continuous irrigation is of great value. Amputation may become necessary. 2. Impaired mobility or ankylosis will result from adhesions in severe injuries, or after sepsis, in many cases but not in all. 3. Injury to, or tearing of the popliteal nerves from the instrument causing wound, or from splintering of bone. These will require suture. 4. Injury to popliteal artery and resulting aneurysm may occur. 5. Osteomyelitis is a very rare complication. Foreign Bodies.—Sometimes nothing can be felt, even on the most careful examination. In these cases a skiagraph will often show the position of the foreign body. It is often of great assistance to have a lateral view of the joint as well as an antero-posterior. Treatment.—A lateral incision will often be sufficient to reveal the foreign body. If lodged between the condyles, it may be brought into view by alternately flexing and extending the joint, and thus enable one to remove it with a sharp hook or forceps. Should this fail, the patella will require to be turned aside or sawn across to allow of a full view into the joint cavity. The body frequently is found between the condyles, and may be attached to the inter- condyloid notch by dense fibrous tissue. To avoid having the cicatrix adherent over the patella, and to have it well removed from possible pressure in the act of kneeling, it is best to make a curved incision across the knee with the convexity upward, the extremities being well over the condyles, and the middle above the upper margin of the patella. A vertical lateral incision may be converted into the more extensive one if required. The joint should be closed without drainage, and such