427 LITTRE'S COLOTOMY Littr^'S Colotomy. — The opening into the colon in the left iliac region. See Colotomy. Littr6'S Glands.—Racemose glands in the urethral mucosa. Littrd'S Hernia,.—Hernia of Meckel's diverticulum. See Hernia (Contents). Litzmann's Obliquity.—In cases of flat pelvis the head may enter the pelvic brim with the parietal bone which is posterior lead- ing ; this is Litzmann's obliquity ; if the parietal bone which is anterior leads, the obliquity is called Naegele's. Livedo Annulare.—Lividity or mot- tling of the skin. See Erythema (Of limited extent). Liver.—This is described in the following sections :— 1. Physiology of. 2. Diseases other than those of " Tropical " origin. 3. Tropical Disorders, including Surgical Treatment. See also Abdomen, Injuries of (Lesions of the Liver); Abdominal Tumours, Diagnosis of (Tumours of Live?-); Actinomycosis (Distribu- tion of Lesions); Alcohol (Chronic Alcoholism, Morbid Changes in Liver); Alcoholism (Lntoxi- cation); Alcoholism (Pathology) ; Appendix Vermiformis (Appendicitis, Diagnosis from Ab- scess of Liver); Ascites (Causation); Bed-Sores (Ca^ises, Liver Affections); Brain, Affections OF Blood-Vessels (Cerebral Thrombosis, Dia- gnosis, Pain in the Liver); Children, Clinical Examination of (Abdomen, Liver) ; Embryo- logy, Human ; Enzymes (Diastatic Function of the Liver); Fcetus and Ovum, Development of (Nutrition of the Foetus); Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts, Diseases of ; Glandular Fever (Clinical Features, Enlargement of Liver); Glycosuria (Alimentary, Cirrhosis of the Liver); H^matemesis (Causes and Source, Diagnosis); Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endocardium (Effects of Cardiac Disease, Nutmeg Liver); Heart, Affections of Myo- cardium AND Endocardium (Symptomatology, Enlargement of the Liver) ; Hydatid Disease ; Intestines, Diseases of (Anatomical Considera- tions) ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Movable Kidney and Movable Liver); Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Hydronephrosis, Dia- gnosis) ; Labour, Operations (Induction of Labour, Indications); Lardaceous Degenera- tion ; Leprosy (Clinical Features, Lepra Tuberosa); Lung, Tuberculosis of (Com- plications, Alimentary System, Liver); Malaria (Diagnosis, Liver Abscess); Mediastinum (Chronic Mediastinitis, Diagnosis, Cirrhosis of Liver); -Mel^na (Diagnosis); Ovaries, Diseases of the (Ovarian Cysts, Symptoms and Diagnosis); Pancreas, Diseases of (Chronic Pancreatitis, Diagnosis); Physiology, Food and Digestion (Liver) ; Post-mortem Methods (Examination of the Body Cavities, Liver); Pulse (Venous and Liver Pulsations) ; Syphilis (Visceral Syphilis, Syphilis in Children); Toxicology (Phosphorus Poisoning) ; Trades, Dangerous (Lead Poisoning, Pathology); Typhoid Fever (Complications and Sequelce); Unconsciousness (Auto-in tox ica tions). Physiology of Liver Outline of Structure .... 427 Functions— General 428 Carbohydrates ..... 428 Fats 429 Proteids 429 Bile-formation..... 430 Influence of Nerves on the Liver . 431 Outline op Structure.—The liver originates as a branching tubular outgrowth from the gut, and it must thus be regarded as primarily a digestive gland. At first the tubules run in an irregular manner, but with the growth of the fibrous tissue they become massed into separate groups or lobules, with their closed extremities pointing inwards and their orifices opening into a net- work of ducts at the periphery of the lobule. The original tubular character becomes lost, and the lumen of the tubules is represented by narrow spaces between the cells, the so-called bile capillaries. The liver-cells thus seem to lie in rows radiating outwards from the centre to the periphery of the lobule. Each cell is polygonal in shape, with one or sometimes two large, round, centrally-placed nuclei, and a protoplasm containing certain materials, vary- ing in amount according to the condition of the animal. When engorged with these matters the cells are much enlarged and stpieezed together; when free of these substances, as in starvation, they become smaller and more sharply defined. One of the most obvious of the substances is Fat, in its characteristic globules. In many animals on a fatty diet this is very obvious. Glycogen occurs dissolved in the cytoplasm, and it may be demonstrated by staining with iodine. It is very frequently confined to one side of the cells. When the organ is treated with alcohol the glycogen is precipitated in granides. Pigment of a brownish colour, usually in granules, is also to be seen in the liver-cells, especially when destruction of red blood corpuscles is going on, and the presence of iron may be demonstrated by treating sections with hydrochloric acid and then with ferrocyanide of potassium.