104 KIDNEY cases have been diagnosed during life (Lin- degger). Occurring in the adult it is probably of congenital or inflammatory (Newman) origin, and is almost invariably bilateral. There are usually some symptoms of renal disease. In one class of case the symptoms have re- sembled those of chronic interstitial nephritis with polyuria, albuminuria, oedema, and circu- latory changes, and sometimes symptoms of uraemia occur. In another class pain, slight or severe, some- times resembling renal colic, has drawn attention to the condition. The discovery of a renal tumour is the only sign which may lead to a diagnosis, and this appears in only 29 per cent of the cases (Lejars). In fifteen out of twenty-two cases collected by Newman a wrong diagnosis was made before operation. The swelling is almost invariably bilateral (unilateral, one in sixty, Lejars), and this differentiates it from hydatid and simple cysts which it may resemble. Primary malignant tumour of the kidney may be suspected, but in this the tumour is unilateral, and there are no signs of chronic nephritis, while the pain and hsematuria of a malignant tumour of corre- sponding size are much more marked. Pyo- and hydro-nephrosis may be excluded by the history, the absence of fluctuation, and repeated examination of the urine. The condition may last from fifteen (Lejars) to twenty (Senator) years. From its almost constant bilateral distribution treatment by operation is possible only in exceptional cases. The kidney will probably have been explored for severe pain under the impression that a movable kidney or a hydronephrosis is present, and it lies with the surgeon to decide the question of removal. Large serous cysts are usually single, some- times several are found. A fluctuating tumour is formed, having the character of a renal swelling, sometimes of large size. I have seen and operated on large cysts from both head and tail of the kidney, the evident result of obstruc- tion to some calyx by inflammatory changes induced by stone in the pelvis or ureter. One cyst contained a large amount of crystals of cholesterine. It is diagnosed from an ovarian cyst by its renal characters. From hydro- nephrosis it is sometimes very difficult to dis- tinguish. Incision and drainage is the best routine treatment, but the expert will probably prefer to resect and stitch over the pared walls. Stone in the Kidney Renal concretions usually form in the pelvis or the calyces of the kidney from deposition of certain solid constituents of the urine. Occa- sionally, however, a stone may be found in an isolated cavity in the parenchyma, the result of obstruction to the straight tubes, and of accumulations behind them. There are three groups of renal stone: the acid (uratic and oxalate of lime stone), the alkaline (lime phosphate), and the bacterial (amnionio-magnesic phosphate). The uric acid is said to be the most usual (80 per cent, Furbringer). Clinical notes on— {a) The Size.—Stones vary in size from that of a fig-seed to a dendritic mass moulded to the pelvis and weighing about two ounces. The heaviest recorded is one by Potel, of five pounds in weight. There is no fixed relation between the size of the stone and the duration of the symptoms, if only the urine remains acid and sterile. Pure oxalate of lime stones grow slower than the uratic group. It has taken five, even ten years to produce an oxalate stone the size of the crown of a molar. If the urine contain pus and micro-organisms the size of the stone is roughly commensurate with the duration of that alteration in the urine ; for phosphatic material is quickly deposited under these conditions on any material acting as a nucleus. [h) The Surface.—Much depends on the sur- face. Uratic stones are smooth, lime oxalate stones are often covered with minute or large clear crystals of a brownish hue. The smooth, polished uratic variety are most usually multiple, and once in the grasp of the ureter, they pass more readily, and give comparatively less suffering. The latter are more irregular in shape and take longer in transit, induce greater agony, and if unvoidable are often single. The chief clinical feature of the crystalline surfaced stones is the tendency they exhibit to become buried; this is, of course, due to their acicular surface being forced by reflex spasm into the swollen mucous membrane. The favourite burial-ground is near the outlet of the renal pelvis; but adhesion (partial burial) is common in any part of the pelvis from the same mechanical reasons. When fairly in the ureter they may pouch the tube at its com- mencement or termination, and quietly increase in size without much obstruction to the passage of urine. Phosphatic stones shift the least of any; they evince a dangerous tendency to grow into and block the pelvic orifice of the ureter. (c) 2'he Site.—The early pathological changes induced by the stone mainly depend on whether it leaves the pelvic orifice free or not. 1. Free Outlet. —■ An oxalate may remain buried for years near the pelvic orifice, and yet leave the outlet free, inducing merely a thickening of the pelvic wall and an increase in and a condensation of the fat around it; or a stone of the acid group may be fixed in a deep calyx for years, the outlet remaining free, and the only change induced being an induration of the kidney tissue due to chronic interstitial