458 LIVER, DISEASES OF that the liver is a sugar-producing organ, the comparative rarity of glycosuria in cirrhosis, and its absence where the liver is undergoing extensive disorganisation, as in acute yellow atrophy, can be understood. In hfemochro- matosis the liver becomes cirrhotic, and diabetes mellitus is present in the great majority of the recorded cases {diabete bronze), but it is due not to the hepatic change, but to a con- comitant and extensive fibrosis of the pancreas. Albuminuria is not present, as a rule ; it may be due to organic disease of the kidneys, such as graniilar or lardaceous change. In some instances it appears to be due to changes in the renal cells set up by toxaemia, and in such cases albumosuria has also been found. In some few instances albuminuria may be due to chronic renal congestion following dilatation of the heart, or possibly to a combination of the last two factors. It has been thought that albuminuria is more often seen in small cirrhotic livers than in larger ones, but no dogmatic decision as to this is at j^resent justified. When acute changes in the liver-cells are superadded to cirrhosis, leucin and tyrosin may appear in the urine. The urotoxic coefficient has been found to be increased. (Edema of the feet is often referred to the intra-abdominal pressure of ascites impeding the flow of blood through the inferior vena cava. But this mechanical explanation will not, at any rate, fit all cases, for oedema of the feet may come on before and independently of ascites. In such cases the toxic origin of oedema may very reasonably be invoked; it has been sug- gested that a poison with a lymphagogue action is produced, and that the oedema is due to this factor. In some cases oedema may be cardiac, and the result of dilatation of the heart and mitral regurgitation. In an alcoholic subject the heart may dilate after a debauch. Another possible cause for oedema of the legs is alcoholic neuritis ; a certain degree of alcoholic neuritis is probably commoner in cirrhosis than is generally recognised. General oedema is very rare in cirrhosis, but oedema may creep up on to the abdomen and appear on the back. Symptoms.—The early symptoms in cin'hosis are referable to the alimentary canal, and indi- cate gastro-intestinal catarrh. This catarrh is partly due to portal obstruction, with resulting venous engorgement of the stomach and in- testines. There is often, in addition, dyspepsia of an alcoholic type with morning sickness, showing that the abuse of stimulants has a good deal to do with the symptoms. Chronic pharyngitis and laryngitis, with their attendant symptoms, are minor but frequent accompani- ments of cirrhosis. Digestion is slow and assimilation is impeded, so that the patients lose flesh and get thin. Flatulent dyspepsia is not uncommon, and the bowels are irregular; diarrhoea may alternate with constipation. Late in the disease, when there is toxaemia, diarrhoea may set in and carry the patient off". Generally the temperature is not raised ; but in cases where the disease advances rapidly there may be continued fever, while active tuberculosis or other complications produce a similar eff"ect. Hcnmatemesis often comes on without any evidence of gastritis; at other times it is immediately preceded by pain, heaviness in the abdomen, and malaise. The patient feels faint, and shortly afterwards brings up a large quantity of blood, often partially clotted. The blood is darker in colour than that brought up in gastric ulcer, but not so altered as the " coffee-ground" vomit of carcinoma of the stomach. Usually there is a single large haematemesis, but it may be followed by a second. If haematemesis is repeated several times at short intervals there is probably a bleeding varicose vein at the lower end of the oesophagus, or a small abrasion of the mucous membrane of the stomach; these are the cases that may prove fatal. In 60 cases of fatal gastro-intestinal haemorrhage in cirrhosis, Preble found that in no less than a third of the cases death took place on the first occasion, and in 80 per cent of the cases there were varicose veins in the oesophagus. Ordinarily the haematemesis of cirrhosis does not give rise to such severe collapse as that of gastric ulcer, and is rarely fatal. While there may be some general tenderness over the stomach due to gastritis, there is no localised area where pressure gives rise to severe pain as in gastric ulcer. Gastric and duodenal ulcer are very rare accompaniments of cirrhosis. The bleeding may be due to gastritis, to small erosions or abi'asions, or to rupture of varicose veins in the oesophagus, or, in rare instances, in the stomach. It is commonly assumed that there is a general and gradual capillary oozing of venous blood from the rupture of capillaries in the gastric mucosa, but it is probable that some inflammatory or destructive change in the mucous membrane is necessary to allow of this. Haematemesis would be much more frequent were it merely the mechanical result of increased pressure in the portal circulation. A cause of gastritis that is often overlooked and may lead to haematemesis, is bad teeth with pyorrhoea alveolaris; the pus teeming with micro-organisms is swallowed, and readily gives rise to changes in the gastric mucous membrane. With haematemesis there is generally melaena; melsena may occur without haematemesis when the amount of blood poured out into the stomach is not excessive. Haematemesis is usually a comparatively