LAMBLIA INTESTINALIS 314 Lamblia Intestinal is—A protozoan parasite, furnished with flagellse, which infests the small intestine of man and of many of the lower animals ; it was described by Lambl. See Parasites {P7-otozoa). Lam ell a.—A thin plate, especially of bone, but also of nerve substance and of embryonic tissues. Lamellae.—Thin discs made of gelatin and glycerin, used as a means of applying certain drugs (atropin, cocaine, etc.) to the conjunctival surface, the disc being dropped into the eye; there are four official lamella3 in the British Pharmacopoeia, those of atropin, of cocaine, of homatropin, and of physostigmine. See Prescribing. Lameness, Intermittent.—A ma- lady due probably to arterio-sclerosis; inter- mittent claudication; angiosclerotic dysbasia (Brb); crural angina (Walton). Lamina.—A thin layer or lamella. Laminaria Tents.—Dried sea-tangle (laminaria du/itafa) has been used in the form of tents for the dilatation of the cervix uteri. See Gynaecology, Diagnosis in {Cervical Dilators). Laminectomy.—The surgical proced- ure by which one or several of the spinal laminse are removed to relieve pressure on the spinal cord in cases of fracture or fracture-dislocation of the spine, or of spinal caries. See Spine, Surgical Affections of {Fractures, Spinal Caries). Lancet.—A lance-shaped knife, thin with a double edge; used for opening abscesses, making incisions, scarifying the gums (when a special form is employed), and for performing venesection. Lancinating^.—Darting, shooting, or cutting, used specially in reference to the pains accompanying certain disorders of the nervous system. See Tabes Dorsalis. Landeck. See Balneology {Germany, Thermal Waters). Landouzy - D^jerine's Myo- pathy.—The facio-scapulo-hameral type of idiopathic muscular atrophy. See Muscles, Diseases of {Idiopathic Muscular Atrophy or Hypertrophy). Landry's Paralysis.—Acute ascend- ing paralysis. See Paralysis {Flaccid Paralysis, Landry's Paralysis). Langren beck's Operation. See Palate {Cleft Palate, Operation). Lang;-erhans' Cells or Islets.—A layer of epithelial cells lying internal to the glandular epithelium proper of the pancreas ; centro-acinar cells. See Pancreas, Physiology of ; Physiology, Food and Digestion {Pancreas); Physiology, Internal Secretions {Pancreas). Langl'hans' Layer.—A layer of poly- hedral cells lying under the syncytium covering the villi of the chorion of the young placenta; similar cells are found in the chorionepithelioma or deciduoma malignum. See Pregnancy, Ovum AND Decidua {Epithelioma of the Chorion); PuBRPERiuM, Pathology {Sarcomo - Deciduo - Cellulare or Deciduovia Malignum). Lang;'Uag;'e. See Physiology, Respira- tion (Voice). Lanoform. — An antiseptic ointment; lanoline containing formaldehyde. Lanoline.—Adeps Lanae Hydrosus of the B.P., Hydrous wool fat. A fat derived from the wool of the common sheep. It is very stable, difficult of saponification, and never becomes rancid; it possesses remarkable pene- trating powers when applied to the skin, and is therefore employed as a basis for ointments containing mercury or other drug which we wish to be quickly absorbed. Its disagreeable stickiness is avoided by the admixture of vaseline. Lanugl'O.—^The hair or down developed upon the foetus in utero and shed to a large extent before birth. LaparO-.—in compound words lapiaro- (Gr. XaTrdpa, flank) means relating to the abdominal walls, e.cf. laparohysterectomy, the removal of the uterus by abdominal section; laparocolotomy, abdominal colotomy; etc. LaparOCele.—Lumbar hernia. Laparoelytrotomy. — An operation formerly used as a substitute for Csesarean section; the abdominal wall is divided by an incision over Poupart's ligament, the parts are dissected up till the roof of the vagina is reached, it is opened into, the cervix uteri is dilated, and the child extracted through it. Laparo m y o m ect o my. — The re- moval of a fibroid tumour of the uterus by abdominal section. Laparonephrectomy. — Nephrec- tomy carried out by means of an abdominal incision. Laparotomy.—Abdominal section, coeli- otomy or celiotomy. See Abdomen, Injuries of {Penetrati7i,g Wounds, Treatment); Appendix Vermiformis {Appendicitis, Operation); Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of {Rupture, Treatment); Intestines, Surgical Affections of {Obstruc-