393 LEUCOCYTHtEMIA cases where remissions occur, the number may fall to normal, so that the condition would not be suspected unless films were carefully examined, when a certain proportion of the abnormal corpuscles, especially the myelocytes, will generally be found to be present. When films stained with a mixture of basic and acid stains, such as Ehrlich's triacid, or eosin and methylene blue, are examined, it will be found that the special character of the blood is the presence of large numbers of myelocytes, which form usually about 30 per cent of the total number of leucocytes. These cells may occur in other conditions, usually towards the close either of a long-continued leucocytosis, as in cancer, or of a short very extreme leucocy- tosis, as in pneumonia; but they never appear in anything like the same number as in this disease. At first sight their faint neutrophile granules and pale nuclei seem to fill up the whole film, as they are mostly large cells, and are apt to lie together in large groups. Nor- mally they do not appear in the blood at all, but are found only in the bone-marrow, and are believed to be the precursors of the poly- morpho-nuclear neutrophile cells, which form the majority of the normal blood leucocytes. These are also absolutely increased in myelsemia, though they are relatively diminished ; and in this disease more than in any other, and more even than in the normal bone-marrow, transition forms between the myelocyte and its descendant are to be seen, and forms also which, by the pale staining of their granules, the homogeneous staining of their nucleus, or their small size, give the impression of being degenerated forms. The eosinophile cells are also much increased absolutely, and usually they show a slight relative increase as well. They may consist of several different forms—the form with poly- morphous nucleus which is usually found in the blood, a form not larger than a small lymphocyte, and the form known as eosinophile myelocytes ; large cells with a pale rounded nucleus and just like a myelocyte, except that the granules are eosinophile instead of neutrophile. These cells are the most numerous form of the three, are normally found only in the marrow, and except in this condition only appear in small numbers in some cases of pernicious aujemia. The lymphocytes are usually increased ab- solutely, but relatively are always greatly diminished. Basophile cells are always present in varying numbers, and are always both absolutely and relatively increased. Ehrlich regards this increase as specially characteristic of myelsemia. They may be either finely or coarsely granular, and have either a round or polymorphous nucleus. They are of importance in relation to Tlirck's objections to Lowit's theory. The red corpuscles in the early stages of the disease are not diminished; but later there is generally some diminution in their number, with a corresponding diminution in haemoglobin, and, if the ansemia is marked, with corresponding changes in the shape and size of the corpuscles. The average number in a well-marked case is about 3,000,000. Quite independent of any anaemia, however, is the number of nucleated red corpuscles. These are always to be found, and in far greater numbers than in any other disease in adult life. They are generally normo- blasts, but very occasionally megaloblasts may appear. The number of red corpuscles bears no constant relation to that of the leucocytes, though usually they become fewer as the leuco- cytes increase in number. Blood-plates are usually increased in niunber. Each of these different factors is present in every case of myeltemia, but their relation to one another is extremely variable. Sometimes the myelocytes are overwhelmingly numerous, and this is the most common of the varieties, sometimes the eosinophile cells; in one case the nucleated red corpuscles predominate, and in another the basophile cells. Each case pre- sents a different and individual blood-picture, but the general effect is that of an inundation of the blood with marrow-cells. One can indeed produce a very fair imitation of the condition by mixing normal bone-marrow with blood, and making films of the mixture. Lymphcemia.—The nimiber of white cells is not usually so great as in the other variety. It is often under 100,000 per cubic millimetre, and the average of my cases has been about 200,000. Cabot records one case with 1,480,000, but this is quite exceptional. The striking thing about the films is the enormous increase of lymphocytes, both relatively and absolutely. They usually form more than 90 per cent of all the leucocytes, and either large or small forms may predominate. The remaining cells are always polymorpho-nuclear neutrophiles. Myelocytes do not appear, and eosinophiles are seldom seen. So much is common to both forms of lymphsemia, for this variety is subdivided clinically into acute and chronic forms. In the latter the red cells are about the same in number as in myelsemia, but unless there is marked antemia, nucleated red corpuscles are not found, and the film contains nothing but ordinary red corpuscles, lym- phocytes, and an occasional polymorpho-nuclear cell. If a chronic case becomes acute the ansemia advances, and the leucocytes are practi- cally all lymphocytes. I saw one case where they were over 99 per cent. In cases acute from the first there is usually marked and pro- gressive anfemia, with nucleated red corpuscles proportional in number to the anaemia, and in children and young people often becoming very numerous. The lymphocytes are more usually of the large variety. Blood-plates are diminished in both forms. In this form of the disease, then, the blood-