512 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES A binder round the body from the level of the nipples to the umbilicus, pulled tight and securely pinned, should be applied and kept in place for several days. An anaesthetic should always be administered when exploratory puncture is undertaken unless there are pulmonary or cardiac conditions for- bidding it. Operation hy {\) the Trocar and Cannula.— The treatment of liver abscesses by trocar and cannula and subsequent drainage has many advocates and many detractors ; these, however, will be discussed later. The principle and prac- tice followed by the writer in the treatment of liver abscess is that initiated and practised by Dr. Patrick Manson. In the hands of many practitioners, also, the writer has seen excellent results from the same line of treatment; and there can be little doubt that on the principle taught by Dr. Manson liver abscesses will in future be treated. The instrument is a trocar with a bayonet point fitting into a cannula some 4 or 5 inches long. The steps of the operation are as follows :—When pus has been found by exploratory puncture with the needle of the aspirator, the pus should not be drawn off in any quantity, but merely in quantity sufficient to establish the fact that pus is present. The reason for this is evident; for were the abscess to be emptied it would be impossible to tell when the cannula was introduced — whether it was in the cavity of the abscess or not— owing to the absence of the flow of pus. The depth to which the needle entered and the direction it followed should be carefully noted, so as to serve as a guide to the course along which the trocar is to be introduced. The movements of the needle after it is introduced into the liver aid in the diagnosis of whether or not the point is an abscess cavity. When the needle is embedded in the liver tissue, the part of the needle external to the chest or ab- dominal wall will move up and down with the respirations; but should the needle lie in a cavity, a more pronounced swing or pendulum- like movement (Manson) is communicated. Unless, however, this is pronounced, the obser- vation is of little value. When the pendulum- like movement is very limited it may serve to indicate that adhesions have taken place between the liver and its surroundings; but when it is entirely absent, then the needle, even if pus is drawn off, is not in the liver at all. When the needle of the aspirator is withdrawn, along the same track introduce the trocar and cannula in the direction indicated by the needle. When the depth at which pus was found by the needle is reached withdraw the trocar, and pus, if the abscess cavity is reached, will flow from the cannula. Do not allow much pus to flow, only sufficient to indicate its presence, when the thumb is to be placed over the opening of the cannula. Dr. Manson's description of his apparatus and his mode of using it is as follows :— The necessary apparatus consists of large trocar and cannula, 4 to 5 inches long, by f-inch in diameter; a steel stilette, at least 14 inches in length; two metal buttons, |-inch at their greatest diameter, with long (|-inch), hollow, roughened necks into which the ends of the stilette fit loosely; 6 inches of ^-inch stout drainage-tubing. While the ends of the drainage-tubing are held and well stretched by an assistant, they are firmly lashed to the stem of the buttons, over the ends of the shorter of which, for additional security, the tubing is also tied. Two large holes, to provide for free drainage, are then cut close to one end of the drainage-tube. The tube is then mounted on the stilette by inserting one end of the latter through one of the drainage-holes, and lodging it in the hollow neck of the distal button, and thereafter so stretching the rubber that the other end of the stilette can be inserted into the neck of the other button. When thus stretched, the drainage-tube should be capable of passing easily through the cannula. The apparatus being thus prepared, and rendered thoroughly aseptic by soaking in carbolic lotion, and the position and depth of the abscess having been carefully ascertained by means of the aspirator and noted, the aspirator is withdrawn, and an incision about an inch in length made with a scalpel through the skin at the site of the puncture. The trocar and cannula are then thrust into the abscess and the trocar is with- drawn. After allowing a small quantity of pus to escape, so as to relieve any tension that may be present in the abscess sac, the stretched drainage-tube, perforated end first, is slipped into the cannula and carried to the back of the abscess. Holding the stretched drainage-tube firmly, and maintaining it carefully in contact with the back of the abscess with one hand, the cannula is withdrawn with the other. Still grasping the drainage-tube firmly, the button on the free end of the apparatus is slipped off the stilette, the end of which is made to perforate the drainage-tube close to the button. This it readily does, and the drainage-tube is allowed slowly to resile towards the fixed end, still held in contact with the back of the abscess. When the drainage-tube has completely contracted the stilette is withdrawn. The writer has adopted Dr. Manson's principle of treatment, and also his apparatus, but with a few modifications of the latter. It will be observed that the tube employed by Dr. Manson is closed at the end, and that as the tube lies in the abscess cavity the deeper §rds of an inch is blocked and valueless as a drain. The writer introduces a drainage-tube open at the end, and stretched merely upon a metal rod with a blunt hook at one side so as to catch and stretch the tube. This allows of an open end to the