432 LIVER, DISEASES OF Cysts of Liver 468 Infective Granulomata .... 469 Tubercle . . ... 469 Syphilis 472 Lymphadenoma ..... 477 Actinomycosis . . . . .477 Malignant Disease . . . .478 Primary 478 Carcinoma . . . . .479 Sarcoma ...... 479 Secondary . . . . . .481 Special Conditions characterised by Jaundice— Icterus Gravis ..... 483 Acute Yellow Atrophy . . . 483 Weil's Disease ..... 487 Jaundice of Phosphorus Poisoning 60 Anatomical Abnormalities Anatomical Abnormalities . . . 432 Liver ...... 432 Biliary Apparatus .... 432 Some Post-mortem Changes . . . 432 Acquired Deformities .... 433 Tight-laced Liver, or Corset Liver . 433 Tongue-shaped Lohe . . . .433 Displaced Liver—Congenital. . . 434 Acquired . . .434 In general transposition of the viscera the liver is on the left side of the body, and the left lobe is the larger. Cases sometimes occur in which the liver is in its normal situation, but the left lobe is large and the right lobe small—trans- position of the lobes without situs transversus. Sometimes one lobe—often the left—is found to be dwarfed out of all recognition, and to be represented only by a small appendage attached to the other ; this is probably a result of some interference with the blood-supply early in life. When the left lobe is practically absent the stomach is more widely uncovered, and the gall-bladder appears to arise from the left border instead of from the under surface of the liver. Small accessory lobes, of about the size of the last joint of the forefinger, are fairly common; they are more frequently seen on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. If they become markedly pedunculated they might form small "accessory livers." The Spigelian lobe has been observed to be curiously pedunculated. Very rarely small detached pieces of hepatic substance have been found in the falciform or other peritoneal ligaments of the liver, "accessory livers," or hepatic "rests." It is noteworthy how rare hepatic " rests" are, as compared with accessory suprarenal bodies and splenunculi. Extensive lobulation of the liver is a condition sometimes met with ; there may be as many as 16 lobules; this lobulation is, I believe, not homologous with the foetal lobulation of the kidnej'', but pathological, and due to some pre- existing morbid process, such as syphilis, or possibly tuberculosis, perihepatitis, or coarse cirrhosis. Abnormalities in the Gall-Bladder and Bile Ducts.—Complete absence of the gall-bladder —the normal condition in the horse and other animals—is sometimes seen in men; this must be distinguished from early pathological oblitera- tion of an existing gall-bladder, such as occurs in congenital obliteration of the ducts. On the other hand, two gall-bladders, each with a cystic duct, have been seen in the same liver (Purser); a bifid gall-bladder has also been described. An hour-glass contraction of the gall-bladder is generally associated with gall-stones, and is probably a secondary change. In cases where the fundus of the gall-bladder projects beyond the anterior margin of the liver, the terminal portion, being somewhat dilated, may appear to be separated from the rest by an hour-glass constriction. Personally, I regard the hour-glass gall-bladder as an acquired and not a congenital change. Direct communications between the gall- bladder and the liver (hepaticocystic ducts) are sometimes found to occur in men. The gall-bladder has been found attached to the left lobe instead of to the right. Considerable variation may exist in the arrangement of the larger bile ducts. Sometimes the two hepatic ducts do not unite until comparatively close to the duodenum. The common bile duct may open quite separately from Wirsung's duct into the duodenum. Post-rnortem Appearances of the Liver.—A few words may be said about certain common though striking post-mortem appearances of the liver. The surface of the liver, where it has been in contact with the stomach or colon, very commonly shows dark purple stains. These stains are quite superficial and are due to the action of gases, among them sulphuretted hydrogen, which diffuse through from the colon and stomach, and meet with iron in the liver ; as a result, some compound like sulphide of iron is manufactured. Irregular white areas on the surface of the liver are seen in cases of fevers and other infections, and show congestion and degenera- tion changes (Hanot). This appearance was formerly thought to be merely due to mechanical pressure exerted after death in laying out the body. Cloudy Swelling.—After death, one, if not the most frequent, change in the liver is that of cloudy swelling. The organ is enlarged, heavier than natural, and looks as if it had been boiled, being dull, somewhat more opaque, and paler in colour than normal. These changes are due to cloudy swelling or parenchymatous