LEPROSY 386 usually appear early in the disease. At first they are simply erythematous and become gradually pigmented. Their usual size is from that of a sixpence to that of the palm of the hand or more. In course of time the reddish colour changes to a yellowish shade, becoming eventually dark. At first the redness disap- pears under pressure. They are either flattened or may be slightly elevated, free from sensation, or the seat of slight itching or burning. They may remain stationary in size, or, in increasing, they coalesce, forming large irregular surfaces in which are found patches of unaffected skin. In course of time the pigment becomes absorbed, leaving the skin pale or liA'id, the margin retaining its colour longest. The borders of the spots are nearly always raised, and small vesicles may be observed in them. The colour of the spots is influenced by race. Hillis found that in negroes they are almost invariably yellow, while Norwegian writers call special attention to the erythematous nature of the spots. Whilst hypersesthetic in the peripheral hyperchromic margin, the centre (where the terminal branches of the nerves have been destroyed) becomes anaesthetic. The corre- sponding lymphatic glands are always swollen. In distribution the spots appear to follow that of the nodules in tubercular leprosy, except that they are frequently found on the back and in the intercostal spaces. They are not found on the scalp or palms or soles ; and although when there is much eruption present they are apparently symmetrical, this symmetry is by no means absolute—it is often entirely absent. Coincident with the development of the spots symptoms of neuritis present themselves. Be- fore the anaesthesia is developed the patches are usually hypersesthetic, the ulnar and pero- neal nerve-trunks are found to be thickened and sensitive, and the peripheral finer branches may be detected by the finger. Hansen and Looft state that in one case they were able to feel the cutaneous nerve branches in a patch growing daily more and more thickened. The large nerve-trunks become thicker near joints where the nerves pass superficially over a bone. The affection of the nerves causes neuralgia and pain in the regions which they serve, the anaesthesia not being confined to the patches, and progressing gradually from the periphery to the centre till the whole limb and often parts of the trunk become anaesthetic. There is usually more or less anaesthesia on the face. The appearance of bullae is very characteristic of nerve leprosy, and it is assumed they are a direct result of the neuritis. These bullae may appear suddenly, and within months or years after the premonitory symptoms. They vary in size from a hazel-nut to a hen's egg, are some- what transparent, and are filled with a sticky yellowish fluid. They leave slightly reddened ulcerated surfaces, the secretion from which gives rise to a succession of brownish crusts. They may heal in a few days without a scar, but months usually elapse before they close. The scars which follow the healing of these ulcers are white, slightly depressed, and often less sensitive than the surrounding skin; they are sometimes surroimded by a light brown border; they are generally free from hairs, and where hairs are found they are fine and colourless. The formation of bullae may go on for years. Danielssen and Boeck have seen it last for five years, the patient being free from them for very short intervals. They are usually solitary, but sometimes several come at once. Danielssen and Boeck have only once seen leprous bullae on the face. They occur very frequently on the palms and soles, but they may come on any part of the body except the scalp. Leloir has seen them three times in mucous membrane. As a rule the early bullae are small, numerous, and hypersesthetic or even normal in sensation, whilst the later ones are large, solitary, and may be anaesthetic. With further development of the neuritis excessive hyperaesthesia, limited to certain parts or extending over the extremities or a large part of the face, may develop. It often occurs at first in the extensor surfaces. Danielssen and Boeck state that the slightest contact produces a "sensation like that of an electric shock." Movement causes violent pains from which the patient only obtains relief by remaining in bed. He loses hope and appetite, emaciates, and, perspiring little, his skin is dis- agreeably dry. The hyperaesthesia, which may last a long time, is succeeded by anaesthesia, occurring usually at first in the parts supplied by the ulnar and peroneal nerves. The skin becomes parchment-like and inelastic at places, the secretions of sweat and sebum being entirely arrested. The anaesthesia in the feet leads to uncertainty in gait. As a consequence of the neuritis there is muscular wasting, and frequently the first symptom which a patient recognises is loss of power. Hillis mentions that amongst the negroes in British Guiana the field labourer often has his attention first directed to his con- dition by the difficulty he finds in holding his cutlass. This muscular shrinking often begins in the hands, the shrinking of the muscle over the metacarpal bone between the forefinger and the thumb being characteristic; then the muscles of the hand, forearm, and upper arm atrophy. A similar atrophy occurs in the corresponding muscles of the legs. The anaes- thesia is so complete that the flesh may be burned or amputated without pain being caused, but a sense of contact is experienced when the bone is sawn or scraped. The changes in the muscles cause the fingers to be permanently flexed, leading to the charac-