452 LIVER, DISEASES OF their toxins induce cirrhosis. A small diplo- coccus belonging to the colon group has been found by Adami, not only in cirrhotic, but also in other and even in normal livers. It was suggested that while in health the micro-organ- isms are destroyed by the liver ; in pathological conditions, where the resistance of the liver is reduced, the micro-organisms may become viru- lent, and lead to the changes of cirrhosis. Syphilis does not give rise to ordinary portal cirrhosis. The hepatic lesion of congenital syphilis is a diffuse pericellular infiltration, which is a curable condition. As pointed out elsewhere {vide p. 477), patients who have pre- sumably had this lesion may, their liver being a place of least resistance, develop ordinary multilobular cirrhosis on slight provocation ; this may be regarded as a parasyphilitic lesion. Malaria is often mentioned as a cause of cir- rhosis, but there is reason to believe that the two diseases are rather associated together than related as cause and effect. Though malaria induces changes, necrosis and hyperplasia of the liver-cells, which might cause cirrhosis, this is not very frequently proved actually to occur in practice. Incidence.—Males are more often affected than females in the proportion of 5| to 2; in 508 cases of cirrhosis, obtained by adding to- gether the statistics of Price, Kelynack, Yeld, Fenton's and my own, 374 were males and 134 females. It appears, however, that the disease is more often latent in men than in women. In children also the male sex is more often attacked than the female. Age.—The average age at which cirrhosis is fatal in adults is about forty-eight years ; if the examples of cirrhosis in young children are included the age would, of course, be lower. A large proportion of the cases fatal in children occur before six years of age. Morbid Anatomy.—The size and weight of the liver in portal cirrhosis vary considerably. Sometimes the liver is much reduced in size, and may weigh under 30 oz. ; in other cases it is as much as twice the normal weight. As a rule, it is rather heavier than natural. In 114 cases at St. George's Hospital the average weight was 65 oz., in 100 cases collected by Hawkins the average was 52 oz., and in 93 collected by Kely- nack 53 oz. It is noteworthy that a cirrhotic liver, which looks considerably smaller than a normal one, often weighs as much or more, its specific gravity being increased. Various forms of portal cirrhosis have been described, and different causes are assigned for the large cirrhotic livers. In some cases the increased size is due to fatty change in the liver- cells, and it has been assumed, but probably incorrectly, that this is especially associated with indulgence in malt liquors. When cirrhosis is associated with pulmonary tuberculosis the liver is often enlarged and fatty. In some instances the increase in size is due to compensatory hyperplasia of the liver-cells—the hypertrophic alcoholic cirrhosis of Hanot and Gilbert—and is associated with latency of the symptoms and arrest of the disease. In other instances the large size is due to the fibrosis having a smaller mesh and approaching a monolobular type ; these cases may appropriately be described as mixed cirrhosis. Generally speaking, the liver is larger in young subjects with cirrhosis than in cases fatal later in life. The larger cirrhotic livers are less knobby than the small cirrhotic livers,, which especially merit the term "hobnail." The capsule is more opaque than in health,, but there is very seldom much chronic peri- hepatitis. There may be adhesions between the surface of the liver and the diaphragm ; when present they are scattered rather than extensive, and are usually markedly vascular. The surface of the organ is irregular ; the projections vary in size from a pea to that of a pigeon's egg. When they are small the surface somewhat resembles that of a granular kidney, and the term " granular liver" is applicable. When, as more rarely occurs, the hobnails are large, the organ may look as if it was occupied by numerous secondary growths, especially when the projections show marked fatty change and appear white, though it is worthy of note that the hobnails are never umbilicated, as is usual in secondary carcinoma. When the projections are exceptionally large the condition is sometimes spoken of as nodular cirrhosis, or cirrhosis with multiple adenoma {vide p. 466). The hobnails are of a tawny yellow or brown colour, being often stained by bile ; the peritoneum over them sometimes shows dilated vessels. During life the liver looked uniformly red in the laparo- tomies in cases of cirrhosis I have seen. The capsule, which is not much thickened as a rule, is more opaque in the depressions between the nodules. Usually the liver is uniformly affected, especially when it is enlarged and the nodules are small, but the change may be irregular, and the left lobe is often in a more advanced con- dition, and may be very small. It is possible that the resistance of the left lobe is less than that of the right, for it is not infrequently more affected in acute yellow atrophy {q.v.) than the right. Sometimes, on the other hand, one of the smaller lobes, such as the Spigelian or caudate lobe, may be enlarged out of proportion to the others, even when the organ as a whole is little if at all bigger than normal. On section the liver is much tougher than normal, and is like a section of conglomerate stone being divided up into areas of irregular size by grey, slightly gelatinous-looking fibrous tissue. This fibrous tissue is continuous with the depressed, more opaque areas on the capsule, and by its contraction has squeezed into promi- nence the more healthy parts of the liver,