218 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED engaged in the conjugate of the brim. It takes this position because there is not room in the conjugate for the oblique diameter, from in front of one parietal eminence to behind the opposite one, which in normal labour enters the conjugate. A second feature is that in labour with a flat pelvis the head enters the brim rather more extended than in a normal pelvis; A Fig. 21.—Position in which the head enters the brim of the fiat pelvis. A, transverse diameter of pelvis; B, diameter in which long diameter of head lies. SO that the finger in the vagina, instead of feeling the smaller fontanelle low down and the anterior high up and behind, feels both fontanelles at about the same level. The reason is that the greatest transverse diameter of the head, the biparietal, is behind the centre of the head. Therefore the front of the head descends more easily than the back, and thus slight extension of the head is produced. This ex- tension does not go beyond a certain degree, because for complete extension to occur the mento-vertical diameter would have to engage in the brim ; and as the transverse measure- ment of the pelvis is 5 inches, and the mento- vertical diameter of the head inches, this is not possible, unless either the child is very small, or the head greatly reduced in size by moulding. Under those conditions it does occa- sionally occur. The third feature of labour with the flat pelvis is the occurrence of what is called, from the obstetrician who described it, the obliquity of Naeyele. This means that the head is so inclined that its biparietal diameter is oblique in relation to the plane of the brim. The anterior-lying parietal eminence is lower down than the one which lies behind, and the sagittal suture is nearer the sacral promontory than the symphysis pubis. The production of this obliquity depends upon the fact that the axis of the uterus is not a continuation of that of the pelvic inlet, but lies behind such a line. If no pelvic deformity be present, the child is driven into the pelvis with exactly the opposite obliquity, viz., the posterior parietal bone sunk lower into the pelvis than the anterior, and the sagittal suture rather nearer the pubes than the sacral promontory. But if the sacral pro- montory jut forward abnormally, the descent of the posterior parietal bone is impeded, while that of the anterior parietal bone is not. Hence the anterior parietal bone is driven down, and the transverse diameters of the head rotate round the promontory, until the anterior-lying parietal bone can sink no farther into the pelvis, and thus the obliquity of Naegele is produced. This obliquity is not only a char- acteristic feature of labour with a flat pelvis, Fig. 22.—Obliquity of Naegel^ ; the sagittal suture near the sacral promontory. but is a movement favourable to the passage of the head through the brim. When it has come about, the transverse diameter of the head which has to pass through the pelvis is a subparietal, superparietal diameter, which is about a quarter of an inch less, upon the average, than the biparietal diameter. Further, the existence of tliis obliquity implies, as a rule, that the head has been able to engage with nearly its greatest diameter in the brim; for if the pelvis is so contracted that the head cannot engage in it, the situation of the sagittal suture becomes, so to speak, a matter of acci- dent. Litzmann regarded the distance of the sagittal suture from the promontory as a guide to the probable difficulty of delivery; he drew from his experience the practical rule that when the sagittal suture ran transversely, and was distant about three-quarters of an inch from the sacral promontory, forceps delivery was generally easy. The three peculiarities just described—trans- verse position of the long axis of the head \ increased, but incomplete, extension of the head ; and the obliquity of Naegele—are those which characterise the entry of the head into the brim of a flat pelvis. In a flat pelvis the only difficulty is that which attends the entry of the head into the brim, and its passage through it. When once the head has passed the brim, all difficulty is at an end. The head entering the brim with the Naegele obliquity, the anterior parietal bone becomes fixed against the symphysis pubis, and then the posterior- lying parietal bone gradually scrapes past the sacral promontory ; if it is pulled through with forceps, the operator will feel it suddenly slip past the promontory, and will find that then