244 LABOUR, FAULTS IN THE PASSENGER and interference. The management differs in one particular from that appropriate in cases where the head is large; for when the cranium is ossified firmly there is nothing to be gained by allowing time for head-moulding to occur, whereas when the head is merely large the longer it is possible to wait with safety before delivery, the easier is the extraction of the child. When undue ossification has been diagnosed, therefore, the operator should apply the forceps as soon as dilatation of the cervix is complete and the vaginal outlet is sufficiently soft; he should then deliver with the patient in Walcher's position, as described under the previous heading. If delivery is found to be impossible by this method, it is necessary to ascertain whether the child is dead or alive. If it is living, symphysiotomy is indicated; while if it is dead, the head should be perforated and extracted after comminution with a cranioclast. Walcher's position is, of course, as useful in de- livering the after-coming head as in cases where the head leads. When perforation of the after- coming head is necessary the best position for the insertion of the perforator is the roof of the mouth.i The base of the skull is well broken up by this method, and the grip afforded to a cranioclast allows of easy extraction. (d) 2Ialformatioii and Disease of the Child: Congenital Hydrocephalus (see " Hydroceph- alus").—Cases of congenital hydrocephalus as diagnosed after birth are much commoner than cases in which this condition causes difficulty in labour. The fluid occupies the cavities of the brain, or occasionally the sub-arachnoid space. In most cases the bones are widely separated, the sutures and fontanelles being greatly ex- tended. In some cases of slight degree the bones reach the sutures and cover the whole cranium, but are much thinned. The presenta- tion is said to be pelvic once in every five cases. In these breech presentations the base of the skull, which is not enlarged by disease, is first to enter the pelvis, and acts as the thin end of a wedge. Spontaneous delivery is therefore more frequent in breech than in head-first cases. Many heads, however, are so plastic as to pass through the pelvis after moulding has occurred. The cranium may burst under the pressure of the natural forces, or the fluid may pass from the cranial cavity and occupy a position under the scalp. As the large head stretches the cervix and lower uterine segment transversely as well as longitudinally, rupture of the uterus is the accident most to be dreaded. Out of thirty-eight maternal fatalities due to hydro- cephalus, rupture of the uterus was the cause of death in no less than twenty cases. On bimanual examination the head is felt to be large and soft, and is found to rest above the brim. The bones yield before the finger in a manner suggestive of brown paper. In 1 Donald, Trans. Obstet. London, vol. xxxi. breech cases the head does not follow the body, and its size and character can be recognised by abdominal palpation. The prognosis is bad as regards the child. If the case is diagnosed early and actively treated, there is little risk to the mother; if unrecog- nised, these cases are grave, on account of the risk of ruptured uterus. In the management of cases of hydrocephalus sufficiently marked to obstruct labour, no at- tempt should be made to save the life of the child. If born alive, these infants seldom sur- vive long; the body is often small and shrunken, while malformations such as spina bifida are frequently present. The use of the forceps should be avoided, as the grip is wide and imsatisfactory; the handles refuse to come together, showing that the blades are widely separated. Under these circumstances slipping and injury to the mater- nal soft parts are very likely to occur. The perforator should be used at an early stage, and if natural expulsion does not follow in due course after the escape of the fluid, delivery should be completed by means of a cranioclast or a cephalotribe. In breech cases traction often bursts the head, or at least forces the fluid into an extracranial position under the scalp, so permitting delivery. If perforation of the after-coming head be neces- sary, it may be done through the roof of the mouth or behind the ear. If neither of these places is within reach. Van Heuvel recommends the removal of the fluid by means of a catheter, which is passed through an opening made into the spinal canal, and so upward through the foramen magnum into the cranial cavity. Fncejjhalocele.—Tumours of this nature are occasionally of sufficient size to delay or to completely obstruct labour. They may be either encephalocele proper or meningocele, the cranial substance being spread over the surface in varying degree. There may or may not be a communication between the sac and the cranial cavity through the pedicle, which may be either broad or narrow. Tumours of this kind are usually in the middle line, the occipital region being their commonest site, and the frontal the next in frequency. The extra fontanelles known as the cerebellar, the naso- frontal, and the medio - frontal correspond to weak points in the cranium, where outpushings of the membranes and the cerebral substance are liable to occur. The diagnosis may be very confusing, and demands careful examination, the whole hand being introduced into the uterus if necessary. S2nna bifida seldom causes actual difficulty in labour, as the tumour is seldom large. The condition may be myelocele or meningocele, and is often found along with hydrocephalus. It sometimes causes difficulty in diagnosis when the presentation is pelvic.