276 LABOUR, INJURIES DURING Evidence and Diagnosis.—The main symptoms are sudden, severe collapse and hfemorrhage coming on during, or more rarely after, the completion of the third stage of labour. The collapse is caused by strangulation of the uterus and its appendages, and is only relieved by re- duction of the displacement. The condition of the patient resembles that due to rupture of the uterus (see p. 265); but the fact that the uterus cannot be felt over the pubes, and that the collapse has occurred in the third stage of labour instead of the second stage, will suffice to difFei-entiate. If the pla- centa is adherent the mass will protrude beyond the vulva, and the diagnosis will be obvious. If the placenta is detached the inverted fundus may, or may not, reach the vulva, and would have to be distinguished from a fibroid polypus. The absence of the uterine body from the hypogastrium will sufficiently exclude the diagnosis of a uterine fibroid, and if the hand be passed into the vagina behind the swelling, and pressure be made by the other hand, the exact condition is easily determined. Prognosis. — The mortality is about 66 per cent. Death may rapidly ensue from shock or haemorrhage, or may follow in a few days, if the case be untreated, from hfemorrhage or sepsis, or later on from exhaustion. If the patient survive and the uterus be unreduced, the inversion becomes chronic and involution is greatly impeded, and the patient remains very ill and suffers from much pelvic pain and from continuous haemorrhages and discharge. Prophylaxis.—Forcible extraction of the child or placenta should be avoided in all cases of secondary uterine inertia. More particularly should expression from above, or traction on an adherent placenta from below, be avoided, except during a definite uterine contraction. If the cord is too short to permit delivery, it must be cvit as soon as the passages are sufficiently dilated to admit the rapid delivery of the child by forceps. The relatively short cord wrapped round the child's neck or trunk should be un- rolled or, if need be, divided. Good uterine contraction and retraction of the uterus must be ensured after the birth of the child. Treatment.—The uterus should be immediately replaced by manual taxis under anaesthesia. The placenta may be detached if still adherent, and after the bladder has been emptied the inverted uterus should be grasped by the right hand, and steady pressure should be made in the direction of the pelvic veins, while the left hand is steadying the rim of the uterine neck from above. It sometimes hastens reduction to try and reinvert the parts of the uterus nearest the rim of the cervix, instead of pushing on the fundus alone. Reduction should be very prompt whilst the uterus remains inert. Every hour increases the patient's shock and makes reduction more difficult, A rectal injection of two pints of saline infusion with a little brandy will rapidly relieve the patient after reduction, but does very little good till that is effected. Never give ergot till the uterus is reduced. If the incident be discovered at once, re- duction may be effected without anaesthesia; but if an hour or two have elapsed it will be essential to put the patient under complete anaesthesia. Manual reduction will usually fail after some days have elapsed, and reduction will have to be effected by Aveling's repositor (see " Uterus, Chronic Inversion "). Antiseptic vaginal douches should both pre- cede and follow reduction. Labour, Operations The following operations are here described :— 1. Induction of Premature Labour . . . 276 2. Forceps 281 3. Vectis . . 287 4. Version 287 5. Embryotomy 290 6. Sjrmphysiotomy ...... 297 7. CsBsarean Section 299 1. Induction of Premature Labour History and Indications.—The induction of premature labour is defined as the artificial bringing on of labour before full time, but after the foetus has reached an age at which it is viable. The induction of abortion implies the emptying of the uterus before the twenty-eighth week of pregnancy, for a foetus born earlier than that cannot survive. The idea of intentionally producing premature labour was derived by analogy from parturition occurring accidentally before term. The opera- tion was originally designed for the sake of the child only. It was of British origin about a hundred and fifty years ago, being introduced in Germany some fifty years later, and in France at a still more recent date. Its morality and expediency were long questioned. "About the year 1756, there was a consulta- tion of the most eminent men in London at that time, to consider the moral rectitude of, and advantages which might be expected from this practice, which met with their general approba- tion." In 1800, Denman wrote of induction as a recognised and valuable operation in cases where pelvic deformity prevented the birth of a living child at term, and also in cases of habitual death of the foetus in utero at or near the end of pregnancy, an indication which is now very rarely acted upon. At that time induction was not undertaken for the sake of the mother ; for Denman wrote : "It ought not to be performed when the patient labours under any hazardous disease." At a later date, how- ever, it became usual to induce labour with a view to checking the progress of any disease