LARYNX, MALIGNANT DISEASE OF 356 The same applies to apparently innocent papillomata situated on the epiglottis, or on the aryteno - epiglottidean folds. Again, the experienced observer will at once think of the possibility of malignancy if he finds that the individual projections of an otherwise apparently simple papilloma are pointed instead of rounded, as those of an ordinary papilloma are ; and this suspicion will be increased if the colour of the new growth is snowy white instead of pinkish, as usual with laryngeal papillomata. In some such cases the growth looks like a miniature snow-covered meadow. Needless to say, the suspicion will be increased if several of the suspect features so far mentioned are met with simultaneously, i.e. if a snowy meadow such as just described is seen to occupy a position unusual for ordinary papillomata—such as, for instance, the aryteno-epiglottidean fold—in the larynx of an elderly person. Further, one's attention ought to be roused if one finds a sort of papillomatous fringe occupying almost the entire length of one vocal cord, whilst the other one is perfectly free. A sign of grave diagnostic importance is impairment of the mobility of the vocal cord from which the new growth springs. The value of this sign, to which I was the first to draw attention, has been repeatedly decried, and my utterances on the subject have been curiously misunderstood by some Continental authors. I wish, therefore, to declare as plainly as possible that I neither believe such impairment of mobility to be present in every case of early malignant disease of the vocal cords, nor that its absence in any way militates against the disease being malignant. All I contend is, that if in the case of a doubtful growth springing from a vocal cord—and not only when the growth is situated near the crico-arytenoid articulation, but even in the anterior part of the vocal cord—an impair- ment of mobility, i.e. some sluggishness of the movements of the affected cord, is observed, this is a most valuable sign, pointing to the malig- nant nature of the affection. This impairment of mobility is, of course, due to the infiltrating character of the new growth, as against the mere surface-excrescence formed by a benign neoplasm. It need, of course, not be present if the malignant new growth should itself be more a superficial one—as, for instance, seen in rodent ulcer—or if it should not yet have deeply penetrated into the tissues ; but if it be present, I have so often found it a sign of great value for the early diagnosis of laryngeal malig- nant disease that no amount of contradiction will shake my conviction. It goes, however, without saying that this applies only to cases in which malignant disease appears at first in the form of a distinct tumour; should it take from its onset the form of a general infiltration and tumefaction, the question of mobility of the vocal cord cannot be utilised for a differential diagnosis, inasmuch as a syphilitic or tuberculous infiltration or a peri- chondritic process or similar causes may also lead to impairment of the mobility of the vocal cords, indistinguishable from that produced by malignant infiltrating disease. Only in very rare instances, and only in the early stages, will there be any danger of mis- taking a malignant new growth for a fibroma. Some doubt may occur when a red semiglobular sessile tumour makes its appearance on the vocal cord of a middle-aged person. But whilst in fibroma the semiglobular form is throughout maintained, and no impairment of mobility of the cord nor any ulceration of the tumour itself occurs, even when the growth has attained a very considerable size, in the further progress of malignant disease the tumour becomes mammillated, loses its semiglobular form, be- comes ulcerated, and interferes with the free mobility of the cord itself. In one of my cases, even after microscopic examination of the removed tumour the diagnosis remained doubtful between fibro-sarcoma and soft con- tinuous fibroma. I am not aware that there is much danger of mistaking malignant disease of the larynx for any other form of benign laryngeal neoplasms, my own case, in which a suspected angioma turned out to be an epithelioma, having so far remained unique. It need hardly be said that in all cases in which the clinical examination alone does not suffice to establish the diagnosis, the aid of the microscope, if possible, should be in- voked. That is to say, a fragment of the growth should be intralaryngeally removed, and subjected to searching microscopical examina- tion. No conclusion ought to be drawn from a single slide, unless the appearances are ab- solutely characteristic of squamous-celled carci- noma. The fragment removed should be examined throughout, and some of the cuts should, if possible, be carried rectangularly to one another, so as to diminish the possibility of mistakes. With all that, it ought to be remembered that growths are not necessarily homogeneous in their structure, that the peri- pheral parts may contain no characteristic elements, and that the more or less fortuitous character of intralaryngeal removal gives no guarantee that really characteristic portions have been reached by the laryngeal forceps with which the removal had been carried out. Matters therefore stand thus: should the microscopic examination definitely establish the histological characteristics of a malignant new growth, well and good; the diagnosis is settled. Should, however, the microscopical evidence be simply negative, the inverse con- clusion, viz., that the growth was not malignant, is absolutely unpermissible, and the clinical observer must continue to watch the progress