311 LACRIMAL APPARATUS, DISEASES OF night, it will be free from the mucus for some hours after the child awakes in the morning. These cases, unlike real dacryocystitis in later life, show a tendency to become cured rapidly and spontaneously from giving way of the membranous obstruction. It is therefore advisable at first to content ourselves with keeping the eye clean by frequent use of a soft rag, and making pressure over the region of the sac. If a cure is not soon effected by these means, the case must be treated as an ordinary dacryocysto-blennorrhoea. Treatment.—The best and most rapid cures are obtained in cases which are not accompanied by strictures, disease of the bone, or great distension of the sac ; but even in the presence of these complications good results may be obtained by patience. As soon as the diagnosis is established by the mucous or muco-purulent discharge from the puncta, we may make up our mind that an operation is required. Delay can do no good. Purulent or even phlegmonous inflam- mation may supervene at any time, and any slight abrasion or ulcer of the cornea may give rise to hypopyon keratitis and loss of the eye. If any surgical operation on the eye, especially cataract extraction, be contemplated, it is, of course, absolutely necessary to cure any lacrimal trouble first, or we should be practically certain to lose the eye from suppuration — an un- fortunate result not infrequently due to over- looking a slight discharge from the sac. We have to do with a catarrhal or purulent process taking place in what is practically a closed sac, and our aim is to get free access to the cavity, empty its contents, prevent their reaccumulation, and bring the mucous lining into a healthy condition. Entrance into the sac used to be gained by an incision in its anterior wall, but since Bowman's time this is done by his method of splitting the canali- culus and freely incising all the tissues at the neck of the sac. This operation is the only great advance that has been made in the treatment of lacrimal disease since quite ancient times. The patient is laid on his back, and a few drops of a 4 per cent solution of cocaine having been repeatedly instilled into the corner of his eye, the skin of the lower lid is kept on the stretch by means of outward traction with the thumb of the left hand, and (the right eye is here supposed to be under operation) the surgeon standing behind the patient's head inserts the beak of the Weber's knife vertically into the lower punctum, turns the cutting edge upwards and a little backwards, and, keeping the handle almost parallel to the lid margin, thrusts it slowly and steadily inwards till the probe point impinges on the lacrimal bone. By raising the handle like a lever, while still keeping the point against the lacrimal bone, the canaliculus may be slit along its entire length. The knife should now be felt to lie quite freely and movable in the sac; but if this is not the case, slight sawing move- ments will bring it about. In operating on the left eye the surgeon, standing as before, keeps the lid on the stretch with the thumb of his right hand, and uses the knife with his left; or if he finds it easier, he may stand on the patient's left side, facing him, and so get the advantage of using the knife with his right hand. Some prefer to have the patient seated on a chair with the head, covered by a towel, resting on the chest of the operator who stands behind. The surgeon now passes a probe about 2-3 mm. in diameter along the divided canali- culus till it is arrested by the lacrimal bone, and raising it to a vertical position against the brow, thrusts it steadily downwards, backwards, and a little outwards till it is arrested on the floor of the nose. To do this satisfactorily requires some confidence, which comes by practice. If the upper end of the probe, after being pushed down, stands forwards away from the brow, we have probably made a false passage, which is more likely to take place in using the smaller probes; hence it is a good rule to use as large a probe as will easily pass. I have known the probe to make its appearance in rather unexpected places—for instance, in the cavity of the mouth behind the soft palate; and on another occasion, from too vigorous use, it has gone through the roof of the mouth. Some skilled surgeons pass the knife itself down into the nose, which certainly ensures an easy passage for the largest probe; but this had better not be done by those of little experience, as with such a fragile instrument the blade is apt to break off and be left in the nasal duct, and false passages are more easily made than by the probe. A more than usually prominent brow renders the use of a straight probe difficult or impossible, and generally the curved probes of Couper are the best to use. It will generally be found that \\ to If inches of the probe are concealed when thrust home. Its lower end may often be felt by means of a second probe passed along the floor of the nose for a distance of I-|- inch from the posterior edge of the nostril. This cannot be done in every case, as the opening of the duct is often on the outer wall, and not in the roof of the inferior nasal fossa, and is then protected by a flap-like arrangement of the mucous membrane. The probe is passed twice a week till the discharge ceases, or at least loses its purulent appearance; but we must be prepared for relapses in many cases. Strictures are diagnosed and localised best by the olive-pointed probes of Couper, and occur most frequently at the junction of the sac and nasal duct, but also at the nasal end of the duct and also at the neck of the sac.