396 LEUCOCYTH^MIA examined for feome time post-mortem. In mye- Ifemia it is exceptional to find the glands so packed with cells of the myeloid type, though I have found it so in some very chronic cases. More usually the greater part of the gland retains the normal structure and appearance, and islets of the myeloid cells are to be found in the peripheral parts of the gland, brought there by haemorrhage or in the same way as they appear in other organs. The hone-marroiv shows alteration in all cases —in lymphfemia as well as in myelsemia, and nearly quite as much in the former as in the latter, though it is, of course, impossible to examine all the bone-marrow in the way in which one can examine all the spleen or all the lymph glands. The essence of the change is that the fat which is present everywhere in the marrow, but especially in the shafts of the long bones, is absorbed, and its place taken by cells of the same kind as those found in the blood. Thus the marrow in the shaft of the femur, which is usually examined, instead of being fatty and yellow in colour, is usvially pink and firm, the so-called "lymphoid" condition. It is exceptional to find it white, soft, and "pyoid." Microscopically in myelsemia it presents very nearly the normal appearance of red marrow, with the differences that no fat spaces are left, that the giant cells are small and few in number, that the nucleated reds are fewer than usual, and further that the tendency seen in the blood in different cases to a preponderance of special kinds of cells is seen also to a certain extent in the marrow. In some cases eosinophiles pre- dominate, in othei's neutrophile myelocytes, and so on. In lymphfemia a section of the marrow looks very much the same as that of lymph gland. Probably, however, the replacement of the proper marrow tissue by lymphocytes is never quite complete, though this point has not been fully worked out. It is, of course, evident that this leucocytic hypertrophy in the marrow will reduce considerably the area there which is normally reserved for the formation of red blood corpuscles. This is one cause of the anaemia which is always present, and is probably also the reason why nucleated red corpTiscles are so commonly found in the blood ; they are pushed out of the marrow, and red corpuscle formation goes on in the blood-stream as it does in the embryo. The liver is usually pale, and fatty from the general anaemia. On close inspection pale zones will be found surrounding the portal spaces, which, when examined microscopically, are found to be caused by infiltration of the con- nective tissue there with leucocytes. This in- filtration also extends to a varying distance between the columns of liver-cells, and similar patches are sometimes fo\md under the capsule. The kidney is usually in the same state, and so are the other organs mentioned as showing enlargement. In fact, patches or strands of leucocyte infiltration may be found anywhere throughout the body, in the lungs, the heart- muscle, etc. We do not certainly know whether these are due to metastasis, to the ordinary but here exaggerated diapedesis of leucocytes from capillaries, or to the overgrowth of pre-existing lymphatic nodules. The alimentary canal is usually in a condition of chronic catarrh, sometimes associated with atrophy of the mucous membrane. In chronic cases there is often no special enlargement of the lymphatic sheath of the alimentary tube, but it is noteworthy that in very acute cases of lymphaemia, which are rapidly fatal, this may be almost the only part of the lymphatic apparatus to show enlargement. Causation and Pathology. — The disease occurs with greater frequency in men, and is found at all ages. The acute lymphaemic form is more common in early life; on the whole, the great majority of cases occur between thirty and fifty. No antecedent disease or condition has been proved to be casually connected with it. Malaria was thought by Gowers to be an antecedent in about one-fifth of the cases, but this is probably an overstatement. I have never seen a case which had a previous history of malaria, and that disease can certainly not be more than an auxiliary in causation. The early views that leukaemia was a suppura- tion of the blood or a cancer of the blood, have long been given up, in that form at least. The problem which at present is being discussed is whether the increased number of leucocytes in the blood is good or bad for the whole organism ; whether it is a measure of defence against some injurious influence, or a useless proliferation of blood-cells; whether, in fact, it is a symptom or a disease. The analogy of leucocytosis in in- fective conditions is, of course, in favour of the former view, and Ehrlich is the principal up- holder of that theory. He takes up the position that myelaemia is a mixed leucocytosis, and is derived from a change in the bone-marrow similar to that which accompanies an ordinary leucocytosis. In order to support this view he accepts some observations by Jolly, who declares that both neutrophilic and eosinophilic myelo- cytes are amoeboid on the warm stage, and Ehrlich lays it to the charge of imperfect methods that this phenomenon is not oftener seen. He is, of course, obliged to take this position in order to show that myelaemia is an "active" leucocytosis, and thus to support his contention that the marrow produces only granular leucocytes and that these only are attracted chemiotactically into the circulating blood and make their way into it by active im- migration. The secondary deposits in the spleen, lymph glands, and other organs he regards as metastases from the marrow. Lymphaemia he puts on quite another footing. He regards