LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 222 the displacement of the symphysis pubis. (2) By measuring with callipers the distance between the posterior superior iliac spine of one side and the anterior superior iliac spine of the opposite side; these measurements on the two sides will be unequal, that which is taken from the diseased side behind being the greater. (3) By exploring the pelvic cavity with two fingers in the vagina, and noting its shape. The important point obstetrically about the Naegele pelvis is the diminution in the oblique diameter on the diseased side. If labour is to terminate naturally the head must be small, and must enter the pelvis with the occiput towards the obturator foramen on the sound side. As these conditions are not always com- plied with, the infantile mortality is about 25 per cent. If consulted during pregnancy by a patient who is found to have an oblique Naegele pelvis, the relative sizes of the head and the pelvis should be estimated by abdominal palpation, and labour induced before the head has got so large that it cannot be pressed into the brim. If consulted for the first time when labour is in progress, the question is—Can the head enter the brim or not 1 If its equator is engaged in the pelvis, or can be pressed down into it, there is no need for interference. If the head cannot enter the brim, the choice lies between cranio- tomy and Caesarean section—the former being the safer for the mother, the latter preserving the child. Csesarean section should not be chosen if the patient has been long in labour. Turning gives no advantage. Symphysiotomy, owing to the ankylosis of one sacro-iliac synchondrosis, will not enlarge a Naegele pelvis as much as it does a normal pelvis. The transversely contracted pelvis of Robert is that produced by want of development of the i'lG. 31.—Transversely contracted pelvis of Robert. lateral masses of the sacrum, and ankylosis of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis on both sides. The result is that the pelvis grows not in breadth as it should do. Hence the acetabula are nearer the middle line, and the outward pi-essure of the femora upon them is exerted to less advantage ; the acetabula are driven more upwards and less outwards. The ossa innominata are less curved; the parts between the acetabula and the sacrum are compressed, shortened, and thickened. Hence the conjugate diameter is shortened as well as the transverse, though not to the same high degree. The diagnosis of the transversely contracted pelvis of Robert is made by the transverse measurements of the pelvis: the intercristal, anterior and posterior interspinous, and bitro- chanteric. With the finger in the vagina, the closeness of the ischial tuberosities and the narrowness of the pubic arch will be perceived. This pelvis is usually so small that the only way of delivering its owner of a living child is by Csesarean section. The kyphotic pelvis is that which is produced when angular curvature of the spine occurs low down. When such curvature is high up it is compensated for by lordosis of the lumbar spine. But when it is so low down that change in the curve of the spine below it cannot compensate its effect, then a change in the inclination of the pelvis takes place, and this change in inclination gradually produces change in shape. In the diagram (Fig. 32), CG represents the upper limb of the kyphosis. The weight of the upper part of the body acts along the line CGI. GP represents the lower limb of the angle ; P is the sacral promontory; PC the sacrum. The eff'ect of the pressure acting along the line CGI is to drive the angle of the kyphosis down- wards and backwards, and this movement, through the traction on the lower limb of the angle, pulls the |^ sacral promontory up- ^ wards and backwards. The inclination of the pelvic brim is changed, so that if its shape were unaltered its plane would form a less angle with the horizon. But the con- tinuous pull on the promontory in the course of years makes the curve of the sacrum from above downwards less, raises the promontory above the level of the pelvic brim, and lengthens the distance between the sacral promontory and the symphysis pubis. As in rickets the bodies of the sacral vertebrse are the parts most pushed down, so in the kyphotic pelvis the bodies are the parts most pulled up—the lateral parts of the sacrum being in each case boimd to the iliac bones. Hence the concavity of the sacrum Fig. 32.—Diagram illustrating the production of kyphotic pelvis. G, angle of kyphosis; PI?, pro- montory of sacrum ; CC, tip of sacrum. 1