309 LACRIMAL APPARATUS, DISEASES OF blushing, and also occurs in the early stage of Graves' disease. Practically, however, in all cases coming under treatment it is the drainage apparatus that is at fault. Epiphora is by no means always due to stricture of the canaliculi, the slightest displacement of the puncta, particu- larly the lower, which is functionally the more important, will produce it; and hence we have it in ectropion of the eyelids, especially of the lower, also in entropion, where the inturned lashes also set up irritation and excessive secretion of tears. Epiphora may also be due to the presence of a Meibomian cyst or other tumour of the inner part of the lower lid, and is seen in old people from relaxation of the lid and in paralysis of the facial nerve—conditions all inimical to the proper approximation of eyelid and globe. In old-standing neglected blepharitis the edge of the lid becomes rounded and slightly everted, the secretion of the Meibomian glands is dim- inished, and the tears readily overflow. The tears, containing as they do a large proportion of salt, set up irritation and inflammation of the skin, accentuating the ectropion and giving rise to constant blepharospasm and discomfort. The treatment consists in slitting up the lower canaliculus by means of a Weber's probe- pointed knife, thus converting the little tunnel into an open rill, which must be prevented from closing by passing a probe along it for some days after the operation. This operation will be mentioned more fully later on. The same procedure is to be adopted when the epiphora is due, not to displacement, but to stenosis or abnormal narrowing of the canaliculi or puncta. In these cases the puncta become so minute as to require the aid of a magnifying lens to make them out; and we must first dilate the passage by a conical sound so as to admit the beak of the Weber's knife. Small foreign bodies, such as an eyelash, the wing of an insect, a wheat bristle, etc., may be carried by the flow of tears from the conjunctival sac into the canaliculi, almost always the lower, and protruding from the punctum, will rub against the eye and give rise to some pain, irritation, and overflow of tears. The treatment consists in the removal of the foreign body by means of forceps. Calculi composed of carbonate of lime and leptothrix threads sometimes block the canali- culus, a condition recognised by the presence of a little fusiform swelling, and requiring slitting up of the passage for its removal. Polypi in this position are still rarer, and, if luxuriant, may protrude from the punctum. In cases of wound of the lower lid dividing the canaliculus, the permeability of the passage must be ensured by slitting up both distal and proximal parts before suturing the edges of the wound. Congenital absence of one or both puncta is occasionally met with; but is not usually associated with epiphora, probably on account of a compensatory imperfection or ab- sence of the lacrimal gland. An accessory punctum and caniculus may very rarely occur, mostly in the lower lid. It may end blindly or open into the tear sac, or it may open into the canaliculus, in which case it may be regarded as a congenital fistula of that passage. Diseases of the Lacrimal Sac and Nasal Duct The mucous membrane of the sac is subject, like the conjunctiva, to catarrhal and purulent inflammation, the starting-point being almost always in the nose and not in the conjunctiva. It is astonishing but no less true that purulent conjunctivitis practically never extends to the lacrimal sac; perhaps the thick layer of pave- ment epithelium lining the canaliculi to some extent accounts for this. In trachoma, however, the lining membrane of the sac has in some instances been found affected with a like disease, the two regions being probably simultaneously attacked. In thirty-eight cases of disease of the sac, Gruhn, in all but two, found nasal disease as simple chronic coryza, atrophic or hypertrophic rhinitis with or without oztena, etc., with obvious signs of the nasal disease being of much older standing than that of the tear sac. Michel thinks that the lacrimation which snuffers of tobacco suffer from or C?) enjoy, is due not only to reflex stimulation of the lacrimal gland, but also to the chronic in- flammation of the nasal mucous membrane extending up the nasal duct and narrowing it. There is no doubt whatever that if one takes the trouble to make inquiries in cases of lacrimal trouble, one will get a history of repeated colds in the head, if not direct evidence of intra-nasal disease. Malformation of the nose, in the form of flat-nose and deviation of the septum, is a pre- disposing cause in many cases. The secretion in the sac, especially if purulent, contains the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus and albus and streptococcus pyogenes. The bacilli of tubercle may also be present, aiid should be looked for as an aid to diagnosis. Vegetations in the nasal fossa may block the end of the duct, as may also syphilitic or tubercular ulcers. Lupus of the nasal cavity is a very common cause of stoppage of the canal. Catarrh of the sac comes on very insidiously, and at first gives rise only to epiphora most marked in the morning or in cold wind. This symptom soon becomes constant, and is associated with ciliary blepharitis, redness, swelling, and discharge from the caruncle and adjacent conjunctiva, a condition called conjunc- tivitis angularis or lacrimalis, which should always lead us to suspect inflammation in the sac, especially if only in one eye.