INVALID FEEDING 9 Heat in a small saucepan the milk. Pour into the hot milk the egg beaten up in a cup with pepper and salt. Stir quickly over the fire until it begins to thicken; remove it then from the fire, and con- tinue stirring until it forms a creamy mixture. Put on a piece of newly-made toast and serve at once. If cooked too long, or allowed to stand, it becomes leathery and indigestible. Baked Egg Grease a china or paper ramequin case thoroughly ; into this carefully break an egg. Add pepper and salt and a tea-spoonful of cream. Place in a moderate oven and bake three or four minutes until lightly set, and serve at once. Eggs also form the basis of omelets, custards, souffles, and are added to many farinaceous puddings to improve them. Prepared and Predigestbd Foods These are mainly of two kinds : (a) those in which there has been a predigestion of the carbohydrates with malt; {b) those in which the albumins have been converted into peptones and the carbohydrates into more soluble sugar, these changes being effected by the action of the active ferments of the pancreatic juice. The so-called prepared foods are those sold by the manufacturers as suitable for babies and invalids. Their right to this description consists in their containing a certain quantity of malt which possesses the power of converting insoluble starch into glucose and grape sugar. In all these foods the malt is mixed with some variety of baked flour. The proportion of sugar and the presence or absence of milk (desiccated) are the varying factors in their composition. Those made with desiccated milk possess a higher nutritive value, and corresponding care must be taken in their administration when taken dissolved in milk. On the other hand, prepared foods in which milk is not an ingredient must be made up with milk. Those made with milk are decidedly more palatable than those mixed with watei-. There are numerous brands of this class of food now in the market, many of which are distinctly valuable in practice. While it is im- possible to enumerate all the varieties, reference may be made to Allen & Hanbury's, Benger's, Mellin's, and Savory &, Moore's, as these are the brands which the writer can safely recom- mend from personal experience. They are all taken mixed with fresh milk. Of the Allenbury series the third food is the best suited for invalids. Nos. 1 and 2 are prepared with desiccated milk, and though very satisfactory for young infants, the taste of them for adults is not quite so palatable. No. 3 has only a certain proportion of its starch converted into a soluble carbohydrate; this leaves some starch (although cooked and rendered easy of digestion) for the digestive powers to act upon. This may with advantage be used as an intermediate food during con- valescence when the digestive powers are slowly regaining their function. The great advantage of having a large choice of malted foods lies in the fact that the patient can get a certain change in the flavours and dishes even when on a very restricted diet. By the use of malt, either in the form of a malt infusion or the extract of malt, many patients who experience much difficulty in digesting the starchy constituents of food, will find that they can do so quite comfortably. The following valuable recipes may be men- tioned :— Malt Infusion (Sir W. Roberts' recipe) Crushed malt, 3 oz. Cold water, \ pint. Mix the malt thoroughly with the cold water in a jug. Let the mixture stand nine hours. Decant off' the liquid carefully, and strain this through muslin until it comes out clear and bright. This has a colour like dark sherry, and a faint maltish taste. It should be freshly made as it is liable to ferment. Malted Gruel The gruel may be made of any of the fari- naceous substances — oatmeal, Quaker oats, farina, arrowroot, barley, or lentil flour, prefer- ably those from prepared flours. For method of making gruel, see p. 15. When cool enough to swallow add the malt infusion or an extract of malt. About one table-spoonful of the infusion or a tea-spoonful of the extract is sufficient to digest a plateful of gruel. The action is very rapid, and in a few moments the gruel becomes thin from the transformation of the starch into maltose. Several such dishes can be made out of invalid food that form a pleasing variety. Any invalid food can be used as a basis for these recipes; Benger's food is especially well adapted for it. Invalid Food 1 oz. of " invalid food." 4 table-spoonfuls of cold milk. J pint of boiling milk. Mix the food into a paste with four table- spoonfuls of cold milk. Add this gradually to the half pint of milk, which should be almost boiling ; keep stirring all the time. Set aside in a warm place for about twenty minutes. Then boil the whole for a minute, stirring all the time, and strain if necessary. This can now be taken as an invalid food or used in the making of various dishes, and the recipes are those given by Benger.