OF THE CARTILAGES LARYNX, AFFECTIONS 371 sinus, the denuded cartilage may be felt. In- volvement of the cricoid cartilage, either along with the arytenoid or alone, may be evidenced by swelling of the laryngeal posterior wall, of the aryepiglottic folds, or of that surface of the larynx which is directed outwards to the pyri- form sinus. One or both vocal cords may be fixed, perhaps, in the middle line as the result of destruction of one or both of the posterior crico- arytenoid muscles. In some of the early cases swelling may be detected beneath the cords, the movements of which are somewhat impaired. When the inflammation attacks the laryngeal surface of the thyroid cartilage swelling may be observed either above or below the anterior commissure of the cords, and tending to occlude the glottic chink. In the former case the true cords may be more or less concealed from view. Should the external surface of this cartilage be affected, and present those signs already indi- cated above, examination with the mirror may assist the diagnosis by disclosing the fact that the mucous membrane on the affected side is reddened, and the mobility of the vocal cord impaired. Should the epiglottis be affected its posterior surface may present considerable swelling, which is seen to extend downwards on to the aryepiglottic folds and false cords, simu- lating the oedematous infiltration observed in tubercle. The abscess may point and rupture near the free margin of the epiglottis, or it may burst at a more dependent part, and the sinus thus be invisible by laryngoscopy. Diagnosis.—From, the foregoing description, it is evident that the diagnosis of perichondritis of the larynx is sometimes beset with difficulties. The clinical picture is not a distinctive one. Neither the symptoms nor the local appearances can be described as characterisic of the condition. In the majority of cases they are identical with those of the primary disease of which the peri- chondritis is merely a secondary complication. The ulceration and infiltration of tubercle, syphilis, and malignant disease may later be marked by the onset of this complication, while a considerable amount of acute oedema may obscure not only the original disease but also the perichondritis. If it can be ascertained from the history that laryngeal symptoms have existed for a space of time, and if those symptoms have become somewhat suddenly aggravated and possibly accompanied by difficulty in respira- tion, the existence of this complication must be suspected. If the mirror reveals at the same time considerable swelling and a yellow area on the surface of the mucosa, signifying the existence of pus, or if necrosed cartilage can be detected with the probe or discovered in the sputum, the diagnosis can no longer be a matter of doubt. The diagnosis between true paralysis of a vocal cord and the fixation follow- ing the more chronic adhesive form of perichon- dritis, or an anchylosis of the crico-arytenoid joint, is sometimes very difficult. In some cases, again, the diagnosis may only be cleared up by observing the result of treatment, while in others the exact condition is not ascertained until a post-mortem examination has been made. The prognosis as regards life must depend to a considerable extent upon the nature of the primary affection. In tuberculosis and malig- nant disease it is grave, while in syphilis or following traumatism it is more favourable. Death, however, may occur suddenly from asphyxia quite independently of any dyscrasia ; marked increase in the swelling, perhaps the result of oedema, the rupture of an abscess, or the lodgment of a piece of cartilage in the glottis, may cause sudden death. A fatal ter- mination from septic pneumonia may follow the introduction of pus into the bronchi. In those cases in which the patient's life is not threatened, the prognosis as regards the function of the larynx must be extremely guarded. In some cases the resulting stenosis may be so marked that respiration through the glottis is no longer possible, and the constant wearing of a tracheotomy tube becomes necessary. In others, again, the voice remains affected, some degree of hoarseness or aphonia bearing witness to the permanent deformity which has resulted. 2. Anchylosis of the Crico-arytenoid Joint Impaired movement or complete fixation of this important joint may occur from a variety of causes. The anchylosis may be true or false according to the existence of changes within or external to the joint capsule. Sometimes the fixation results from a luxation of the joint surfaces. As we have already shown that anchylosis may follow perichondritis of the arytenoid and cricoid cartilages, it follows that the various conditions already enumerated as etiological factors of the former must also be regarded as causes producing anchylosis. To the different affections enumerated above we must add as further causes the changes met with in and around the joint in gouty indi- viduals, and the neuropathic and myopathic paralyses which produce secondary joint changes resulting from disuse. As a result of the anchylosis the movements of one or both vocal cords, as the case may be, are impaired or lost. A varying amount of infiltration and swelling in and around the joint exists in most cases as a sequel of the previously existing inflammatory process. The position of the cord varies according to the position in which the joint has become fixed, and this will vary from that of full adduction to that of com- plete abduction. Where the anchylosis is pro- duced by cicatricial contraction (false), these extreme positions of the cords are more fre- quently found, while in true anchylosis the cord more frequently is fixed in an intermediate position (cadaveric).