LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM 171 An attempt may now be made to feel the head of the child as it lies on the brim (multi- para), or slightly dipping into it (primigravida), by placing the right hand on the abdomen, just above the level of the symphysis (Fig. 18). The thumb and middle finger will usually be able to grasp the base of the skull, and the FIO. 18. hardness, roundness, and mobility of the head can be recognised. The head can be more clearly identified and its position made out by the observer's next turning so as to look towards the woman's feet, using his hands in combination as before. To grasp the head between the tips of the fingers they will have to be pressed somewhat deeply downwards and backwards towards the pelvic Fig. 19. inlet—a superficial palpation will yield no results of value. When the head is felt to be well grasped by the tips of the fingers it can, in the usual attitude of the child, be made out without much difficulty that the back, traced from above, slopes into the nape of the neck without any abrupt curve; whereas on the right side of the woman the prominent forehead makes a fairly distinct relief from those parts of the foetus, namely, the arms folded on the chest, to be felt just above it. If the head is extended, as in face presenta- tions, the occiput will be felt to project some- what abruptly from the curve of the back as this is traced down; but the chin of the child will lie pretty much on a plane with the front of the child's body-surface. The arms are frequently not clearly recognised; if they are, there is no mistake as to which way the cliild is facing; but it may be remembered that the lower limbs, which can, if any part can, always be made out, point to the anterior surface of the child. In performing any of the above manipulations the best results are got in a multipara wlioseabdominal walls are thin, and who is able to bear such an examination without tightening her abdominal muscles. In cases where these conditions are not found the foetal parts can often be recognised if, instead of making steady pressure on tlie parts under the hands, this pressure is made in slight jerks, in the same way as a liver may be mapped out in an ascitic abdomen. The slight jerk overcomes momentarily the resistance of the interposed layers, whether tliey be of elastic tissues or of fluid, though, of course, more perfectly in the latter case. It will be found, however, that with practice the consecutive sensations ob- tained by "dipping" all over the surface of a uterus, even if there be some obstacle of the kind named in the way, are mentally combined into a fairly reliable impression of the lie and position of the child. The importance of abdominal examina- tion of pregnant and parturient women cannot be over-estimated. In fairly practised hands they give more reliable results than are to be obtained from vaginal examinations alone, though it is not recommended that abdominal ex- aminations should be considered suffi- cient for practical work. With the desire of avoiding all possibility of septic infection, a long series of cases were examined at one lying-in hospital by the abdominal method alone, and no accident is recorded; but it is evident that such a condition as prolapse of the cord, which gives no sign externally save that of slowing of the foetal heart if compression of the cord is becoming fatal, would remain un- recognised if this means of examination only were used. The results of abdominal examination in each kind of lie, position, and presentation will be given in describing the special mechanism be- longing to each. Ausmdfatioii.—This method of examination is applicable in practice to the abdomen alone;