LABOUR, OPERATIONS- 305 1—CESAREAN SECTION than by simple section, and therefore it was concluded that similar results would follow in the case of women. Blundell, in writing upon this subject, said such a method might prove an eminent and valuable improvement; but he also wrote, in speaking of deaths from peritonitis after Csesarean section, that experience sometimes contradicts our most favourite opinions, and that something of the kind would be found to occur in the cases under consideration, as he had no doubt the risk of diffused peritonitis had been greatly exaggerated. How his surmise has proved true is seen in the present-day position of abdominal surgery. Acting on the lines suggested, Storer of Boston, in 1868, first practised amputation of the uterus after section. The case was one of pregnancy complicated with a fibroid of the litems. He was interrupted by such an alarm- ing hsemorrhage that he had to remove the body and fundus with the ovaries; but his patient died three days afterwards. This was an operation of necessity. Porro first performed the operation as a matter of choice, as he considered it impossible to secure the uterine incision in Csesarean section, so as to prevent the flow of blood and septic fluid into the peritoneal cavity. The results got under antiseptics in other abdominal operations encouraged him to make the attempt, and in 1876 he did so with happy results. Others took up the operation, and very quickly the old Caesarean section was superseded by it; but only for a few years, as now Csesarean section can be performed without the slightest danger from bleeding, peritonitis, septicaemia, or other dangers that Porro's operation sought to avert. At the present day Porro's operation is an operation of exception, that is only necessary in some conditions, such as serious rupture of the uterus, or where labour is obstructed by a large fibroid. As regards the steps of the operation, it is to begin with similar to Csesarean section. It is only after the uterus has been emptied that it varies, as at this point the uterus is everted and an elastic ligature applied round it, just above the os internum. The uterine tissues are then compressed until the bleeding has ceased. The uterus is then removed, and the stump secured outside the abdominal wound, and maintained in position by needles and a serrenoeud. Porro, upon emptying the uterus, transfixed it with a trocar and cannula at the union of the body and cervix. He then withdrew the trocar, and passed two silver wires through the cannula, which was also withdrawn and the wires tied, one upon the right and the other upon the left side, including in their grasp the ovaries and tubes. This done, the uterus and appendages VOL. V above the wires were cut away, whilst the stump was secured outside. The method has been im- proved by transfixing with needles and ligating with a serrenoeud instead of with separate wires. The stump is dusted with iodoform and dressed with gauze all round. The needles should be raised to allow of proper packing. A layer of sublimated Gamgee should be placed over all. It may require to be dressed daily; and the ligated portion usually separates about the tenth day, but the raw cavity requires regular dressing till perfectly healed. It was urged as an important factor that Porro's operation prevented future conceptions ; but this end is gained in Csesarean section by the more simple method of tying and dividing the tubes. L3. Bourboule.—A mineral water con- taining iron and arsenious acid. La.briclse.—A family of fish, dangerous for eating. See Snake-Bitbs and Poisonous Fishes. La, brum.—The upper lip in mammals, as opposed to labium, the under lip. Labyrinth. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Physiology, Diagno&is, Diseases, etc.); Ear, Acute Inflammation of Middle ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-suppurative ; Nose, Post-nasal Adenoid Growths {Labyrinthine Deafness); Syphilis, Tertiary {Labyrinthine Disease); Vertigo {Aural, Meniere's Disease). Labyrinthitis.—Inflammation of the labyrinth. See Auditory Nerve and Laby- rinth {Labyrinthitis); Deaf-mutism {Morbid Anatomy). Lac.—(1) A resinous incrustation produced in the case of certain trees by the puncture of an insect {Coccus lacca); it is astringent, but is now little used in medicine; according to the state in which it is offered for sale it is called stick-lac, seed-lac, or shell-lac {Shellac). (2) milk or a milky fluid, e.g. lac sulphuris or milk of sulphur. Lace - Maker's Disease. — Lead poisoning. Lacerated Wounds. See Medicine, Forensic {Kinds of Wounds, Lacerated); Wounds. Lacerations. See Labour, Injuries DURING {Cervix, Perineum, Uterus, etc.); Vag- ina, Disorders of {Injuries). Lachrymal. See Lacrimal. Lacing'-Liver.—The deformity of the liver produced by tight-lacing, consisting in the downward prolongation of the right lobe so as to constitute practically a new lobe or tongue, and in the presence of a marked transverse gTOOve. See Liver, Diseases of {Anatomical Abnoyvnali- ties); Pregnancy, Management {Clothing).