213 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED the bones to grow into their proper shape; (2) the pressure of the weight of the body through the vertebral column on the sacrum, w^hich it presses downwards and forwards, and the reacting pressure of the femora upon the acetabula, which they press upwards; (3) the pull of muscles and ligaments upon the pelvic bones. Deformed pelves are produced by altered effects of these forces: (1) the bones may be stunted in growth either uniformly, or in special places; (2) they may be softened by disease, so that they yield unduly to pressure and pulling; (3) muscles and ligaments may be displaced by disease or accident so that they come to pull in an abnormal way. In many pelvic deformities these three agencies are com- bined, so that it is ditficidt to separate the action of each force; and there has been, and still is, difference of opinion as to the way in which certain deformities are produced. At birth the sexual differences between the male and female pelvis are already evident, although they are not so marked as later in life. The differences between the infantile and the adult pelvis are more marked (Figs. 4, 5). In the foetus, the sacrum is less curved from above downwards than in the adult; the sacral pro- montory is high above the plane of the brim; the transverse diameters of the pelvis are from above downwards, and presses down the promontory until it comes to be very little above the plane of the brim. The pressure of the body weight upon the sacrum can be split up into two components. Fia. 4.—Pelvis of foetus at term. (After Balaiulin.) Fig. 5.- -Pelvis of adult. Balandin.) narrower in proportion to the others than in the adult. The vertebral column is nearly straight; the lumbar convexity and the dorsal concavity hardly exist. As the child grows up the curves of the spine are produced. The body weight presses the sacral promontory downwards and forwards : this increases the curve of the sacrum Fig. 6.—Sagittal section of normal pelvis. AB, true conjugate ; AC, diagonal conjugate; CD, antero-posterior diameter of outlet. (After Pinard.) one acting downwards and backwards, the other downwards and forwards. The former tends to force the sacrum downwards between the two in- nominate bones ; the latter tends to force the promontory forwards towards the symphysis. It is obvious that the relative magnitude of these two components will vary with the inclination of the pelvis. The less the pelvis is inclined to the horizon, the more the sacrum will be driven down and the less it will be driven forwards; the greater the in- clination of the pelvis to the horizon, the more will the sacral promontory be driven forwards. This theoretical reasoning is un- impeachable ; but it has never been shown that the projection of the sacral promontory does in fact vary with the pelvic inclination. The pelvic inclination, whatever it may be in the somewhat artificial conditions under which it has been measured, is continually varying in different postures; so that I think the pelvic inclination, although a factor in modifying the shape of the pelvis, is not a factor of the first importance. The femora press directly upwards. As the acetabulum is outside the line along which the body weight is transmitted, viz., one from the sacrum to the feet, the pres- sure of the femora tends to force the aceta- bula outwards as well as upwards. This pressure is resisted by the ligaments of the pubic symphysis, which hold the pubic bones together. When these ligaments are divided, the pubic bones fly apart, and if the femora are pressed upwards the pubic bones diverge yet more. Hence the combined influence of the downward pressure of the sacrum and the up- (After