501 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES of sufficient size is struck to allow of a free flow. But even after several needle punctures are made and a small quantity of blood only is drawn into the bottle of the aspirator, a considerable amount of blood escapes from the punctured liver capsule into the cavity of the abdomen, and thereby effective blood-letting is obtained. The writer was enabled to prove the fact that blood does escape from the liver when perforated by the needle of an aspirator, as the following account shows:—A patient, the subject of mitral regurgitant disease, had an enormous hypertrophy of the liver and ascites. The ascites was so excessive that the fluid had to be withdrawn by paracentesis. Whilst the fluid was flowing through a cannula introduced between the umbilicus and pubes, the liver was punctured in several places by the needle of an aspirator, in the hopes of furthering diagnosis as to the presence or absence of pus in the liver. After five punctures had been made and the aspirator laid aside, the straw-coloured fluid issuing from the cannula became tinged with blood, the fluid became more and more sanguineous, until, as far as appearances went, it looked like pure blood. The cannula was withdrawn, the wound healed, and the patient professed himself much relieved, a relief which lasted for a week or two. Tapping the liver by an aspirator is discussed under Liver Abscess. Abscess of the Liver, Classification of There is a tendency, amounting almost to a positive belief, to regard "abscess of the liver" as a definite disease. This clinical fallacy has hampered advance in our knowledge of the subject, and has no doubt proved a detriment to the application of more rational treatment. 1. Classification.—Abscesses of the liver are usually differentiated upon an etiological or pathological basis, and arranged into two great groups, the " tropical abscess of the liver " and "pysemic abscesses of the liver." Even this attempt at classification has no true foundation; for tropical abscess may be pysemic in origin, and with the tropical are associated abscesses occurring with, or following upon dysentery, the connection of which with a pytemic infection of the liver is a matter largely of opinion. 2. Yet another basis of classification, brought forward by the writer, is the anatomical. Pus may collect above, within, or below the liver, and the writer has suggested the following terms:— A. Suprahepatic abscess signifies a collection of pus between the layers of the broad (coronary) ligament of the liver, bounded above by the diaphragm, and below by the liver substance where it is destitute of peritoneal covering. The cause of pus collecting in this region is, according to the writer, a lymphangitis of the lymphatic vessels issuing from the upper surface of the liver and passing upwards towards the diaphragm to gain the thoracic duct. The disease follows quickly upon chill, and is in- dependent of dysentery or other intestinal lesions. The pus met with in suprahepatic abscesses is not " liver " pus ; it is usually sterile, and the amoeba coli appears in it only after it has discharged for some days. B. Intrahepatic abscesses include all abscesses, whatever their origin, occurring within the liver substance. (1) Pus in the liver may develop, owing to inflammatory changes having their origin within the liver itself. Of these, hepatitis ending in suppuration (tropical abscess) is one of the best known; but pus may result from the damage caused to the liver by a blow ; a hydatid or other cyst may suppurate; or parasites may be the foci and causes of purulent formations. It is evident also that inflam- matory hepatic lesions caused by gall-stones, pylephlebitis, etc., may belong to this group or to the following. (2) Pus in the liver may, however, arise from causes beyond the liver, but within the gathering area of the portal vein. The suppuration is of a truly pysemic origin and character, and may have as its origin ulcers (dysenteric, malignant, or simple) anywhere in the alimentary tract from the stomach to the rectum, appendicitis, disease of, or surgical operations upon, any part of the viscera or parts of the abdomen drained by the portal vein. (3) Pus in the liver may result from a general pyeemic state, in which case the infection is conveyed by the hepatic artery. Pycemic abscesses of the liver are usually multiple. They seldom attain a large size, although one may far outstrip the others in dimensions. A cause beyond the liver area is always discoverable either during life or after death. Dysenteric ulceration is a common lesion, in which instance the " tropical" abscess may be merely an example of pysemic infection. The signs and symptoms of multiple abscesses of the liver developing in the course of a general pyfemia are obscure in the extreme. The local conditions and the train of clinical evidence involved are but of secondary importance to the general state of the patient. There may be local pain, perihepatitis or general peritonitis; and purulent collections, if near the surface, may even be felt through the abdominal wall. The pathological factor is, no doubt, an em- bolism of the hepatic radicles of the portal vein. The blood stasis induced leads to degeneration of tissue and the formation of localised suppura- tions, each of which is surrounded by an area of congested and hypersemic liver tissue. Surgical treatment is seldom called for in the pytemic state; but should any one of the abscesses approach the surface, or give other evidence of its presence, the pus may be