407 LICHEN Pathology ...... 409 Etiology 410 Diagnosis 410 Treatment . . . . . .411 See also Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata (^Chronic Dermatitis); Gout (Irregular' Gout, Cutaneous Si/stem); Hydropathy (iTidications); Psoriasis {Diagnosis); Kheumatism, Chronic {Clinical Features); Skin, Tuberculosis of {Lichen Scrofulosorum); Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Prickly Heat or Lichen Trojiicus); Syphilis {Secondary, Skin Affections); Urti- caria (Varieties, Urticaria Papulosa or Lichen Urticatus). The derivation of the term lichen is not clear. One can hardly believe that it was selected as an appellation because one of the forms of lichen ruber planus—the sole true lichen among many which have been rejected on various grounds— somewhat resembles the botanical lichens which flourish on the boles of old trees, for this variety in a pronounced guise is rare, and it is not generally from rare varieties that generic designations become popularised. But what is now meant by the name is obvious enough. It is applied to diseases of the skin which are throughout papular, any change in feature being due to alteration in arrangement, or to intensification of existing characters, not to transformation into another type of lesion, or to the fact that the lichenous is but a stage in the covirse of the ailment. The essential truth of this definition may be averred, even though in very exceptional instances some slight modi- fication has been noted. These are mere chance freaks. The history of lichen proper does not actually date further back than the time of Hebra, and the conception he formed is adhered to now even more closely than by its originator himself. But there are many cutaneous complaints to which the prefix lichen was connected at no distant period, now relegated to other categories, yet which require brief notice here in order to clear the ground. Thus we have lichen urticatus, a form of chronic urticaria seen particularly in young children, in which papules evolve out of and succeed the wheals. Lichen strophulus, a punctiform eruption of small, acuminate red papules in infants, associated with profuse sweating, favoured by or perhaps even due to unsuitable or to coarse woollen underclothing. Lichen tropicus, also a sweat rash, seen chiefly in warm climates, and there most frequently in new-comers, and in one of its types papular. It is caused by sudden blocking of the mouth of the sudoriferous ducts, with cystic degenera- tion as a sequence. Pollitzer explains its pro- duction as due to the soaking, by perspiration, of a skin insufficiently supplied with fat. It may be that depriving the integument of its normal unctuousness by too frequent baths with soap, predisposes, since it does not appear to occur in the negro. Lichen hcemorrhagicus and lividus are mere accidents in some papular efflorescences, when in consequence of intense congestion blood is effused into the tissues, or owing to a scorbutic or purpuric element it oozes into the lesion. Lichen palaris, though papular, dry, and permanent, is properly a kera- tosis of the upper half of the hair follicles. It gives rise to the rough scaly points so frequently seen and felt on the outer aspects of the upper arms and thighs; or to the spiky prominences —called also lichen spinulosus—inflammatory in nature, met with on the neck, arms, and elsewhere, set with almost mathematical regu- larity, and exhibiting, occasionally at least, con- tagious features, where the extruded root-sheaths form short projections. Lichen circumscrijjtus must now be looked on as an extension of seborrhcea, and as constituting one of the varieties of Unna's seborrhoeic dermatitis. It occurs on the back between the scapulae, or on the front of the chest, and is particularly prone to arise in the case of those who habitually wear thick though possibly soft flannel under-vests. Individually the elements are minute red or rose-red pinhead-sized spots or elevations, which are follicular in situation. These have a ten- dency while extending to arrange themselves as incomplete circles or crescents, the included area being fawn-coloured, perhaps slightly scaly. The periphery is a rose-red line, which in many- instances can be resolved into a chain of peri- follicular papules. But occasionally the whole area is rough, the projections being closely set over the entire field. Considerable, even wide tracts may be involved, the skin in general is greasy, and there is usually seborrhcea capitis, the starting-point, as it is the maintaining source of the disease. The arrangement of the dorsal manifestation is triangular with the apex downwards. Lichen scrofulosorum occupies as yet an un- certain position. Though in the large majority of instances it is encountered in children and young adults who are evidently of the scrofu- lous type, it has not yet been satisfactorily proved to be tubercular by the unequivocal discovery of the bacillus. It is an inflammatory process which has its seat in the immediate neighbour- hood of the pilo-sebaceous follicles. It runs a chronic course, and its pinhead-sized papules are flattened and soft, of a pale red, brownish red, or wliitish tint. These are found in groups, or arranged in circular lines; they bear a small scale on their summit, less often a tiny pustule; after a rather prolonged duration they disappear. They are seen both on the front and back of the trunk, but may be com- plicated by an impetiginous eczema of the pubic regions and their neighbourhood, and give rise to a slight sensation of itchiness. The sole true lichen which remains is lichen