LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 517 the remainder hypertrophies and takes upon itself extra functions, it is easily understood how an even extensive atrophy of part of the liver may be attended by no clinical evidence. The general condition of the patient when portal thrombosis is established is one of decline: the physical powers fade and the digestive functions fail; the urine is small in quantity and of a high specific gravity ; oedema of the feet, an anaemic appearance, and, finally, a cachectic state supervene as the inevitable consequence approaches. Compensatory Channels of Circulation. — Dilatation of the superficial abdominal veins is often a marked feature of adhesive portal thrombosis. The apparent venous enlargement is, however, only an indication of extensive and more deep-seated efforts of the same nature to establish a collateral circulation so as to relieve the portal system. On the extent to which this is developed depends to some extent the length of life possible for the patient, and it also has some influence in modifying the signs and symptoms, such as ascites, haemorrhage, etc., caused by the thrombosis. The chief anastomoses between the portal and systemic systems are as follows :— Veins Portal System. General or Systemic. 1. Coronary veins of stomach I , , , .> oesophageal, anastomose with . j r & j- phrenic. I left renal. 2. Coronary veins of stomach anastomose with 3. Coronary veins of stomach anastomose with 4. Vasa brevia of stomach ) , , , ., 1 > left phrenic, anastomose with . j ^ 5. Gastro-epiploica of stomach ) anastomose with . / 6. Superior mesenteric veins anastomose with 7. Hsemorrhoidal veins anasto- I ■■. mose with . . ) 8. Veins in liver adhesions I , anastomose with . ) P ^ 9. Veins in liver adhesions ) veins in abdo- anastomose with . J minal wall. 10. Veins in falciform ligament ) , 4- -v-u r phrenic, anastomose with. • J 11. Veins in falciform ligament ) veins in abdo- left renal, left renal. irenic. anastomose with minal wall. It is by way of the veins in the falciform ligament (10 and 11) of the liver that the anastomosis which gives rise to the superficial abdominal veins becoming enlarged takes place. In almost every case of hepatic cirrhosis these veins will be found to be enlarged; but as the distension is usually confined to the deeper veins, the condition is apt to be overlooked, and it is only when the obstruction in the portal vein is pronounced and prolonged that the superficial veins become apparent. The veins in the falciform ligament pass from the wall of the abdomen opposite the attachment of the falciform ligament and from the under surface of the diaphragm to the liver; the former, according to Sappey, reaching the under surface and joining the left branch of the portal vein; the latter gaining the dome of the liver. The current of blood in these veins is normally towards the liver, but when the portal vein is obstructed the current of blood is reversed and passes between the layers of the falciform ligament to gain the deep epigastric (superior and inferior) veins in the substance of the rectus muscle, and in these the blood is conducted upwards to the internal mammary or downwards into the external iliac veins. The portal vein, as the result of its hepatic capillaries becoming partially obstructed, may become distended or varicose. Portal, in Mala- dies du Foie, describes a portal vein enlarged to the dimensions of the small intestines. Uni- form distension is, however, much more common than varicosity, owing no doubt to the absence of valves in the veins of the portal system, in consequence of which true varicosity cannot take place. The causes which induce throm- bosis are for the most part similar to those which induce a dilatation of the portal vein, but localised dilatations due to patchy peritonitic thickening are more common than is localised thrombosis. The wall of the portal vein may be itself the seat of chronic phlebitic changes and of calci- fication of a more or less extensive character. These may each induce an adhesive portal thrombosis independently of hepatic or other diseases. Diagnosis.—K\t\iOVi^ there is no single sign or symptom which definitely pronounces the portal vein to be obstructed, a fairly positive opinion may be arrived at when the signs and symptoms are taken collectively. Ascites rapidly developing and rapidly recurring after the abdomen is tapped, hsematemesis or haemor- rhage from the bowel, the splenic enlargement, etc., all point to a possible thrombosis, although these are all but part and parcel of the usually adopted indications of ordinary advanced cir- rhosis. It is, however, well-nigh certain that when these developments occur during the course of a cirrhosis of the liver they are due to a supervening thrombosis of the portal vein. Prognosis.—A fatal issue is to be looked for when the portal vein is thrombosed. Collateral circulation, precarious at best, may prolong life for a time; but with the liver and its func- tions practically withdrawn from the economy, recovery is impossible. It is only in cases due to mechanical obstructions, such as those caused by dilated bile ducts due to gall-stones, or to