LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM 180 by others, is that this condition of affairs is a very common cause of a consultation being necessary. The remedy for it is to carry the handles of the forceps very far back while the blades are being locked, and at the same time to push the head bodily backwards by pressure applied to the forehead above the pubes. Moulding of the Head.—In the first described and commoner mechanism the diameters com- pressed are the occipito-frontal and the biparietal. The head is thus made rather dome-shaped, and the suboccipito-frontal and suboccipito-bregmatic diameters are rather increased than diminished. In the rarer form the head resembles the head after a very severe occipito-anterior labour. General Character of Labour.—The head is longer in passing through the pelvis than in the last group where the occiput turns forwards (p. 177), as it offers greater resistance to moulding along the lines in which moulding is required; and also there may be, as above mentioned, slight pelvic contraction. The fronto-occipital diameter (4^ inches) distends the perinicum, and makes rupture probable in multiparge, and certain in primiparae. There is an increased risk of septic absorption, partly because of the laceration, and partly because of the manipulations necessary. The child is little, if at all affected, unless there is long detention of the head. (For Management, see p. 198.) Mechanism in Face Presentations The principles involved in the mechanism of labour when the head presents by the face are identical with those already described as govern- ing the mechanism in vertex cases, the only difference be- ing that different diameters of the head are in relation with those of the pelvis. The head is extended in- stead of flexed. The general effect of this is that a somewhat less favourable relation exists on the part of the head both to the forces expelling and to the passage. The blunter face takes the place of the occiput, and therefore a less eflFective wedge-action is FiG.so.-'aeiationofhead brought about at the time to trunk in face pre- when the head has become sentation. ti ■ the dilatmg agent — that is, after the membranes have ruptured; and further, the foetal-axis-pressure is not applied so nearly at right angles to the base of the skull as in the presentation of the vertex, but impinges on the skull at a tangent. Frequency.—The head presents by the face in about 1 in 300 of all cases. Mode of Production.—The head becomes ex- tended for several reasons, which may act separately or in combination. 1. Uterine Obliquity.—This has been shown in the case of vertex presentations where the head lay in the commonest position of the vertex, namely, with the occiput to the left, and where the uterus had the usual obliquity, namely, to the right, to distinctly favour flexion. Where, however, one of these conditions is reversed—for instance, where the occiput lies to the right—the arrangement does undoubtedly favour extension, and the head will be brought first into the attitude of a brow presentation, and then into that of a face (Fig. 22, p. 175). The explanation already given in reference to the causation of flexion in vertex cases need not be made again at full length. 2. Flat Pelvis.—If the brim in this case is of the elliptical variety, the biparietal diameter will have to lie in a diameter of the brim, which will to a greater or less degree retard its advance. This is a diameter to one side of the conjugate, and roughly parallel to it, since in this class of pelvis the head enters the brim in the transverse diameter. The biparietal diameter lies nearer to the occipital end of the head than to the frontal, and in consequence the occipital end will be retarded while the frontal end is allowed to advance. The result of this is to extend the head (see also p. 179). 3. Dead Child.—Dead children present by the face in a larger proportion than living ones do. The reason of this is that the normal muscular tone is wanting, and the head may reach the brim in any attitude; and then if there are other forces (obliquity of the uterus in a suitable direction, for instance) which will tend to extend the head, a face presentation is readily produced. 4. Other causes of far less importance some- times bring about a face presentation. A goitre may sometimes be large enough to cause ex- tension of the head by its bulk. It has been said that an unusually long head (dolicho- cephaly) is very liable to present by the face; this is quite uncertain, and the type would have to be extraordinarily well marked to cause this result. Before entering on the detailed description of the mechanism in each kind of face presentation, it will be well to point out the features wherein face cases differ from those of the vertex. The chin takes the place of the occiput in being the most advanced part of the head, and the occiput comes last. The submento-vertical diameter (4^ inches) takes the place of the suboccipito-frontal (4 inches) in relation to the walls of the birth- canal. A larger diameter has therefore to pass, and there is proportionate delay. The chin does not project so far in advance of the general mass of the head as the occiput