460 LIVER, DISEASES OF extends into the mesenteric branches it may give rise to melsena and a paralytic state of the bowel imitating intestinal obstruction. In some instances cardiac failure occurs, and may become so prominent that the existence of cirrhosis is obscured or not detected until after death. Occasionally sudden death results from this cause. Diagnosis.—In the pre-ascitic stage, before hsematemesis has occurred, cirrhosis may be suspected from enlargement and tenderness of the liver, and enlargement of the spleen, in an alcoholic subject, with dyspepsia. When hsematemesis has occurred it must be differentiated from gastric ulcer, and especially from that extensive and somewhat latent form of ulcer met with in men between forty and fifty years, and often associated with arterio- sclerosis. Though it is easy to recognise a gastric ulcer in a young woman with all the classical symptoms and signs, it may be very difficult in men, for extensive ulceration may exist without much tenderness. These patients are more anaemic than in cirrhosis, and com- plain more of pain, while the spleen is not enlarged. In malignant disease of the stomach the tumour may not be felt; but, in that case, there are likely to be signs of pyloric obstruc- tion, and hffimatemesis is scanty and like "coffee-grounds." When ascites has svipervened, the other con- ditions that may equally give rise to this must be considered and eliminated {vide article " Ascites "). The ascites of cirrhosis is peculiar in that it seldom requires tapping more than twice, while in chronic peritonitis, and most other forms of ascites, it may be called for again and again. In the late stages of cirrhosis, with cachexia and emaciation, it may be very difficult to eliminate cancer of the liver until the fluid is removed by paracentesis. A large knobby liver with umbilication of the nodules points to malignant disease; a small liver with splenic enlargement, to cirrhosis. Syphilitic disease should be suspected when there are signs of syphilis elsewhere in the body, and a vigorous course of antisyphilitic remedies should be prescribed. But outward signs of syphilis may be wanting, and the proof of syphilitic disease of the liver may only be found in recovery imder iodides. When the patient first comes under observa- tion, with some complication such as cardiac failure, phthisis, pleural effusion, and so forth, the existence of cirrhosis may not be suspected at first. Prognosis. — The prognosis of cirrhosis is extremely bad at a late period of the disease, and when emaciation and ascites have developed, the patient's days are, as a rule, numbered. Cases of undoubted cirrhosis, in which tap- ping has been followed by improvement and latency of the disease for years, have, it is true, been met with. If the patient's general con- dition and nutrition remain good, ascites is more likely to be recovered from than in the ordinary run of cases, where the patient is cachectic by the time ascites has appeared. The prognosis is very much better in the early stages of the disease, and a patient who has suffered from hfematemesis may, by strict obedi- ence to medical treatment and directions, escape from any further symptoms. On the other hand, the terminal symptoms of cirrhosis, such as ascites, 03dema of the legs, and toxaemia, may come on suddenly, and sometimes without any very apparent cause. The latency of symptoms depends on com- pensatory mechanisms : (1) the collateral cir- culation; and (2), probably most important, hyperplasia of the liver-cells. When this compensatory hyperplasia has occurred the liver becomes larger, while the spleen becomes smaller. There is, however, the danger that the areas of hyperplastic liver-cells may undergo degeneration, or become invaded by fibrosis, and, by sharing in the cirrhosis, lead to a recrudescence of the symptoms. The prognosis depends in great part on the patient's method and conduct of life, and is, of course, made worse by any complication, such as phthisis or renal disease, diseases which may kill the patient without any marked hepatic symptoms. The activity of the kidneys, or renal permeability, is an important element in the prognosis. As long as the kidneys carry off the toxic bodies that the cirrhotic liver allows to pass into the general circulation, the patient is in a fairly satisfactory state; but failure of the renal excretion entails hepatic toxaemia, which is analogous to urinary toxaemia. Treatment.—The fibrotic condition of the liver cannot be removed by the administration of drugs, such as iodides or chloride of am- monium. Although the disease cannot be cured, it may become latent. The objects of treatment, therefore, should be (1) to allow the development of the compensatory mechanisms which enable the disease to become latent; and (2) symptomatic. In the first place, any factors that lead to or favour cirrhosis must be removed. Alcohol must be cut off entirely ; on the patient's power of will to become a total abstainer his future will largely depend. Medicines, if necessary, should not contain tinctures, alcoholic extracts, or be flavoured with spirituous compounds. If the patient's condition absolutely demands alco- hol, it should be taken largely diluted after meals. The diet should be restricted to milk, of which three or four pints should be taken daily; it may be mixed with Vichy, Apollinaris, Vals, or soda water. When improvement occurs, fish