177 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM diameter of the pelvic canal being at this level the largest of any, the bis-acromial diameter rotates into it. Now, at the moment at which the head clears the vulva the shoulders are still in the left oblique, and the natural movement of the head to place itself at right angles with their width causes it to rotate immediately after emergence so as to face slightly to the right (Fig. 25). This first rotation is made very frequently with a jerk; then as the shoulders rotate com- pletely into the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet the head moves farther round, so as at last to face the mother's right thigh. This is the movement of external rota- tion or Jiestitu- tion, the latter name indicating that the head is now restored to the position it had at the mo- ment of entering the pelvis, that is, facing to the right. The delivery of the shoulders takes place in the same kind of way as that de- flG. 26.—Relations of child to pelvis SCribed for the duringdelivery of shoulders. (From Vi^rirl TVio an Winckel's frozen section.) nccia. iiie ctii- terior shoulder appears first below the symphysis, and there forms a centre round which the posterior shoulder revolves. Both shoulders are born practically at the same time. The arms are folded across the chest with the hands under the chin. The upper part of the thorax now lies in the outlet and the lower part in the brim, so that there is some lateral flexion of the trunk. The hips come down in much the same way as the shoulders, their bitrochanteric diameter turning into the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet. Moulding of the Head.—During the passage of the head through the birth-canal some of its diameters become altered owing to the considerable pressure to which the head has been exposed. The different ways in which alterations of the shape of the head by pres- sure are permitted by its structure have been already explained. The head passes through the canal with its longest axis, the mento-vertical diameter, co- inciding with the axis of the canal as nearly as the attachment of the trunk permits. This would mean that all diameters at right angles to this undergo compression if the coincidence were exact. Such is, however, not the case, VOL. V for the leading point of the head is not found on the sagittal suture, but on the right parietal bone close to the suture. The compression takes place in a series of rings bounding planes at right angles to the line joining this point to the chin. Lengthening takes place along this line, and the head is obliquely distorted. When the other positions of the vertex are considered it will be seen that when the left parietal bone is to the front, in the second and fourth positions, the end of the new long axis of the head is shifted to the left side of the vertex. Each mode of delivery of the head has, according to the relations prevailing between the head and pelvis, a special moulding. These varieties will be described in order after each variety of mechanism. Diagnosis and Mechanism in Special Vertex Positions First Vertex.—This is the one already de- scribed. Diagnosis.—The occipito-frontal diameter is nearly in the transverse diameter of the brim with the occiput a little forwards. Per abdomen, the back of the child and the occiput lie to the mother's left, and the foetal heart is heard on this side a little below the level of the navel. The limbs are to the right. Per vaginam, the woman lying on her left side, the sagittal suture is felt through the sufficiently dilated os to run downwards and forwards, and to end in the posterior, triradiate fontanelle. The anterior fontanelle may be felt at the other end of the suture; and possibly the right ear, with the pinna directed down- wards and forwards, can be reached. Mechanism.—-The head passes the brim, becoming more flexed. It then rotates com- pletely into the right oblique. As it descends the occiput is directed towards the middle line, thus coming to the front, and passes under the pubic arch. The suboccipito-frontal diameter now lies in the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet very nearly. The nape of the neck is pressed against the lower border of the pubic arch, and the birth of the head is completed by extension. The shoulders come down in the left oblique, the right shoulder being in front. When the head has completely escaped, the face makes a small movement towards the mother's right thigh, and this movement is continued as the shoulders rotate into the antero-posterior diameter of the outlet; so that the head lies at the end of restitution, with the face and occiput squarely to right and left respectively. Second Vertex.—In this case it is only necessary to substitute left for right through- out the above description of the first vertex mechanism. The sagittal suture, being in the left oblique, runs upwards and forwards. 12