117 KIDNEY reappears and again evacuates itself. Ee- accumulation of the fluid is often preceded by an attack of renal colic. Bilateral Hydronephrosis occurs when there is incomplete obstruction of the urethra; some- times the cause is in the bladder, rarely in both ureters. If during the course of an urethral stricture a constant polyuria is present with diminution in the specific gravity of the urine, commencing dilatation of the kidneys may be suspected. There is often some albumin in the urine and tube-casts may be present. There is not usually suflicient enlargement of the kidneys to be felt on palpation of the abdomen, and there is no pain or tenderness. These cases often have transient attacks of suppression of urine in the later stages, and eventually die of uraemia. Diagnosis.—(1) Of the renal tumour. (2) Of the nature of the renal tumour. (1) The Betutl Tu7nom:—The history of renal colic, heematuria, pyuria, or other urinary symptoms, if present, points to the renal origin of the sw-elling. Mimetic Conditions. — (a) Tumours of the Liver and Gail-Bladder.—These grow from above downwards, while kidney tumours pass from the loin forwards. They move more freely with respiration than do renal tumours. The dulness is continuous with that of the liver, and there is never a tympanitic note in front. Sometimes a history of jaundice or of biliary colic may be obtained. {b) Tumours of the spleen occupy a higher position, are more freely movable with respira- tion, the whole tumour is dull on percussion, and there may be a well-defined edge and a typical notch. General symptoms of malaria, leuksemia, etc. are frequently present. (c) Ovarian cysts grow from the pelvis up- wards ; if large enough to simulate a renal tumour they are median, dull on percussion, and both loins are resonant. The tumour is more movable than a renal one, and vaginal examination shows a displaced uterus and a fluctuating pelvic tumour. There is no urinary history, but often one of menstrual disturbances. [d) Ascites may be simulated by a very large lax hydronephrosis. There is dulness in both flanks, which shifts with the varying position of the patient, and a percussion thrill may be obtained. (2) The Nature of the Renal Tumour.— Hydatid and serous cysts also form painless, fluctuating tumours of the kidney. They are comparatively rare conditions. In the case of hydatids there may be a history of renal colic from the passage of small cysts. The discovery of one of the causes of hydro- nephrosis, such as an ureteric stone felt per rectum, or the history of passage of gravel or stone, are of importance. Pyonephrosis.—The swelling in these cases is often tender and frequently painful. There is usually a history of pus in the urine and rigors, and fever will indicate the purulent nature of the contents. Treatment.—Medical treatment is unavailing. Operative measures, such as drainage or plastic pelvectomy, or removal of the kidney, should be advised in all but the smallest hydronephroses. The following points are the most important in considering the question of operation :— (1) The patient may seek relief from the pressure effects of a very large hydronephrosis, especially shortness of breath, palpitation, con- stipation, or vomiting. (2) In bilateral cases the destruction of kidney tissue is progressive, and eventually the issue is certainly fatal. Patients with hydro- nephrosis seldom live beyond the age of fifty (Dickinson). Death occurs from suppression and uraemia. (3) In unilateral hydronephrosis the causal condition (most frequently stone) often becomes bilateral, and the remaining kidney is destroyed. (4) Rupture of the hydronephrotic sac (spon- taneous or from injury) may occur with fatal results. (5) At any time suppuration may occur in the sac by the vise of septic catheters or in other ways; and the condition is much graver than in simple hydronephrosis. This is well shown by the cases published by Henry Morris. In ten operations for hydronephrosis he had no deaths ; in nine operations for pyonephrosis three patients died. In cases due to the pressure of malignant tumours—cancer of the uterus, for instance— operation is, of course, contraindicated; but the question will seldom be raised, for in such cases a renal swelling is rarely discovered (Morris). Pyonephrosis Pyonephrosis is a term used to denote dila- tation of the kidney and its pelvis, with sup- puration superadded. The dilatation may occur first and sepsis be added, either from septic catheterisation or some operation, or no such cause may be present, and infection come through the blood stream. In other cases the ureter becomes blocked in the course of a calculous pyelitis and pus accumulates. Pathological Anatomy.—The structure of the sac is the same as in hydronephrosis, but the lining membrane is roughened, shreddy, and the contents purulent. Frequently there is phosphatic deposit on the walls, and calculi may be present if the condition has developed from calculous pyelitis. If one kidney alone is aflfected the cause will be found in the renal pelvis, and is almost invariably calculous. Both kidneys are often dilated, and these cases arise from obstruction in the bladder or in front