34 IODINE the kidneys, it may produce untoward results. In the late stages of pneumonia where resolu- tion is slow, iodide may promote absorption of exudates; and it has also been employed in chronic pleurisy and pericarditis. It should be given in the early stages of hepatic cirrhosis as it may possibly retard the overgrowth of connective tissue. Full doses are indicated in the treatment of actinomycosis. It is occasionally employed to arrest the secretion of milk. The depressant effect of potassium iodide may be counteracted by the addition of a little ammonium carbonate, or the sodium or ammonium salts may be used instead. Iodides are very disagreeable to taste and should be prescribed with sarsaparilla or liquor- ice, or should be taken in milk. lodipin.—A compound of iodine with oil of sesame, given, usually by subcutaneous injection, in cases of syphilis and in other morbid states in which the iodides are commonly administered {e.g. asthma, lead-colic, etc.); a 10 per cent, to a 25 per cent, solution is employed. lodism. See Drug Ebuptions {Iodine); Nose, Acute Inflammation {Acute Rhinitis, Etiology) ; Pharmacology ; Syphilis {Treat- ment of Tertiary Syphilis) ; Toxicology {Non- metallic Elements, Iodine and Iodides). — The prolonged use of iodine and the iodides is apt to be followed, especially in siisceptible individuals, by coryza, watering of the eyes, headache, sore throat, and acne ; these symp- toms constitute iodism. lodo-a—In compound words iodo- usually signifies relating to iodine or an iodide, or com- bined with them, as iodocaffein, iodocaniphor, iodocodein, etc. lododerma.. —A skin eruption due to the use of iodine, especially iododerma pustulo- tuherosum, in which there is hyperkeratosis and parakeratosis. See Drug Eruptions {Iodine). Iodoform. See also Ankle-Joint, Region op, Diseases {Tuberculous Arthritis, Treat- ment) ; Colour Vision {Acquired Colour-Blind- ness, Causes), Dressings {Iodoform) ; Drug Eruptions {Erythematous, Papular); Hip-Joint, Diseases {Tuberculosis, Treatment, lodofai-m In- jections into Joint); Joints, Diseases of {Tuber- culous, Treatment, Conservative) ; Knee-Joint, Diseases of {Tuberculous, Injection of Iodoform Glycerine); Toxicology {Non-metallic Elements). —lodoformum. Tri-iodomethane, CHI3. Small yellow hexagonal crystals, with a characteristic disagreeable odour, are obtained by acting upon alcohol with iodine in the presence of caustic potash at a temperature of about 70° C. It is almost insoluble in water, soluble 1 in 95 of alcohol, and freely in fixed and volatile oils, ether, and cliloroform. Dose—^-3 grs. Pre- parations—1. Suppositoria lodoformi, 3 grs. in each. 2. Unguentum lodoformi. Iodoform is widely used in surgery for appli- cation to wounds, ulcers, sores, sinuses, etc. It is supposed to act as a mild disinfectant and antiseptic, and although the theory of its action by the liberation of iodine in the tissues has been greatly called in question, there is no doubt that clinically it is of the very greatest value. It is especially efficacious in the treatment of syphilitic and tuberculous ulcers, and it lessens pain and itching. It promotes the formation of plastic adhesions, and is therefore employed for this purpose in operative surgery. An emulsion of iodoform in glycerin (I in 10) as an injection into tuberculous joints and abscess cavities has given very good results. For tuberculosis of the bladder, an emulsion of the same strength in mucilage of tragacanth and water is less irritating. An insufflation of iodoform with equal parts of starch or boric acid is of great value in tuberculoiis ulceration of the larynx; \ gr. acetate of morphia may be added if there is great pain. The same preparation is useful in ulcerative conditions of the mouth and throat and in ozaena. Painful defeecation from fissure of the anus or irritated hiEmorrhoids may be prevented by the introduction of a suppository shortly before going to stool. Bougies of iodoform for the treatment of gonorrhoea and pencils for introduction into the uterus have been prepared. Recently the intravenous injection of a solution of iodoform in ether has been introduced by Dewar for the treatment of phthisis. When the solution reaches the lungs the ether evaporates and the iodoform is deposited. Iodoform is of little value in internal medication although it has been tried in a large number of diseases, includ- ing tertiary syphilis, phthisis, catarrhal jaundice, and hepatic cirrhosis. Iodoform in capsules made of glutoid, which is dissolved by the pancreatic secretion but not by the gastric and intestinal, has been made use of to estimate the time of the passage of food from the stomach to the intestine, and to demonstrate the activity or otherwise of the pancreatic secretion. When the capsule has been dissolved and the iodoform absorbed, iodates and iodides can be detected in the saliva by testing with chloroform and dilute nitric acid (a rose-red or violet coloration of the chloroform is obtained). If no iodoform is absorbed the pancreatic secretion is absent or inactive — as is found in some cases of infantilism. A great many substitutes for iodoform have been placed on the market within recent years. Aristol, di-thymol iodide, is a useful dusting powder, and has also been recommended for psoriasis, lupus, and eczema. lodol, tetra-iodo- pyrrol, an almost odourless, crystalline, brownish powder, has been used for much the same purposes as iodoform. lodoformal, Europhen,