IRIS AND CILIARY BODY 41 (1) Sympto7natic h-itis occurs as a result of syphilis, rheumatism, gonorrhosa, tuberculosis, gout, and diabetes; it may follow one of the exanthemata. (ft) Syphilitic iritis is much the most common form of iritis. It appears as a rule within the first nine months of contagion, usually in the fourth or fifth month. It occurs in about 4 per cent, of all cases of syphiHs. There are four chief forms—plastic iritis, iritis gummosa or papulosa, gumma of the iris and ciliary body, and irido-cyclitis. The 'plastic, form difters from the other forms in the large amount of exudation and in the rapidity with which this becomes organised, in showing no tendency to recur when once cured, and in the absence of very severe pain. Iritis gummosa or pa^jidosa appears as a secondary manifestation, and must not be con- founded with the next form. It occurs in 18 per cent, of all cases of plastic iritis. Its characteristic feature is the formation of multiple orange or rust - coloured nodules of lymph, either at the ciliary or the pupillary margin of the iris. The ordinary signs of iritis are present. As a result of this form, a liroad posterior synechia is very common. True ijummata of the iris and ciliary body may occur as a tertiary symptom of syphilis, but ;ire very rare. They usually start at the iridic mgle, and cause marked staphyloma. Vision is usually greatly affected, though a case has been recorded {Ophth. Review, vol. xvii. p. 238) in which, after correction of the resulting astigma- tism, useful vision was restored. Irido-cyclitis, the fourth variety of syphilitic :ritis, is a late secondary or tertiary manifesta- tion, since it may occur several years after the primary infection. It is frequently accompanied 3y choroiditis. Hereditary syphilis is occasionally character- sed by congenital syphilitic iritis, occurring at, )r a few hours after, birth. A little later, asually between the ages of six weeks and sixteen months, iritis may develop—infantile Iritis. Still later, interstitial keratitis may be ;omplicated by iritis, extensive adhesions some- ;imes resulting. Occasionally cyclitis, with no keratitis, results from hereditary syphilis. (6) Rheumatic iritis may follow acute 'heumatism, but is more common in the ;hronic form. It shows a great tendency to •ecur, the relapses often alternating with the ittacks of rheumatism, though in some cases ;he two are synchronous. It is attended with greater pain and conjunctival injection than ;he syphilitic form. The plastic exudation, lowever, is less; there is consequently less ;hange in the colour of the iris, and the idhesions are less extensive and form less •apidly. Sight may be little affected, even ifter repeated attacks. Both the iris and ;iliary body usually are implicated. (c) Gonorrhoeal iritis resembles rheumatic iritis very closely. It is found especially with gonorrhoeal rheumatism, although it may occur in cases where the joints are not aff'ected. Like rheumatic iritis, this form shows a special tendency to relapses, especially after a i-enewal of the urethral discharge or a return of articular swelling. (d) Tuberculous irido-cyclitis is a form of iritis occasionally seen, though, from the rarity of its occurrence, its earlier stages are very liable to be overlooked. It is essentially chronic, and differs chiefly in this respect from all other varieties. This disease is probably always secondary to a primary tuberculous focus elsewhere in the body. In the disseminated variety the pupil is usually contracted and immobile. At first nodulated on its surface, the iris eventually fills up the anterior chamber ; its colour is a dull brick-red mottled with gray, and it appears to be very vascular. The pain and circumcorneal injection are not marked at first, though in the later stages, owing to the supervention of secondary glaucoma, the pain becomes intense and persistent in spite of all palliative measures; chemosis and intense circumcorneal injection accompany this increase of tension. It usually occurs in young subjects. The diagnosis is determined by the chronicity of the affection, by the characteristic appear- ance of the iris, and by the resistance to all ordinary treatment for iritis. Upon making an antero-posterior section of the excised eye, the tubercular appearance of the iris is most striking. It fills the whole anterior chamber and moulds itself to the shape of the cavity, becoming adherent to the cornea and lens. It presents to the naked eye the appearance of small white nodules massed together and interrupted here and there by the disturbed uveal pigment, giving the growth the resem- blance of marble. Microscopically, these nodules present the characteristic features of miliary tubercle, central giant-cells surrounded by epithelioid cells and small round cells. They are non-vascular, though the vessels between them are enlarged and numerous. The ciliary body is usually involved, and the uveal pigment is so interrupted that it would be difficult to believe from the appearance that it was ever a continuous tract. The tubercle bacillus has in many instances been found. Recovery has occasionally taken place with gradual absorption of the growth, but as a rule the prognosis is bad, the eye being lost, and the patient usually dying from general tuberculosis or meningitis. The solitary variety is very similar in its symptoms, pathology, and prognosis, but starts singly. (2) Traumatic iritis results from a perforating injury, mechanical violence, or chemical irri- tation. Of these the first is much the most common. The iritis may go on to a suppurative