520 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES of the family Trematoda, are met with in the liver or bile passages. Their presence is, however, by no means common; in fact, a liver parasite may be justly considered a rare affec- tion. Still more rare is it for the parasites to be located in the liver itself; the almost in- variable habitat is the biliary passages. In the portal vein, also, parasites of this group have been found. Liver parasites belong to the Vermes ; class, Platodes; family, Trematoda, or flukes; variety, Distoma. 1. Distomum hepaticuni. — In its fully de- veloped state the Distomum hepaticum is found as a smooth, oval, faintly-yellow, flat worm, measuring 28 mm. by 12 mm. in its widest part. The head protrudes as a short beak from the broader end of the parasite, and pre- sents on its ventral surface a sucker. Immedi- ately behind the sucker is the genital pore, and behind that again a second sucker. The genital pore leads to the uterus, which lies con- voluted like a ball of wool above and behind the second sucker. The intestine is branched. The eggs are oval in outline, measuring 0-13 mm. by 0'08 mm. They are of a brown colour; the shell or citaderm consists of two fairly well- marked layers, and at the broader end of the egg is a small lid or operculum. 2. Distomum lanceolatum. — This is, as its name implies, a lance-shaped entozoon, measur- ing 9 mm. by 3-5 mm. The parasite is narrow in front, but widens out gradually until near the posterior extremity. The genital pore is, in the lanceolate species, as in the hepaticum, between two ventral placed discs, but the vaginal tract is much longer, the uterus being situated farther back in the widest part of the body. The intestine is more complex than in the hepaticum, being divided up so as to form many sacs and canals. The eggs are spherical, measuring '04 mm. by '03 mm., and within them the mature ova may be found. The Distomum hepaticum and Distomum lan- ceolatum are parasites of the biliary passages of the ruminantia, and more particularly of sheep. Sheep "rot" is attributed to the pathological processes set up by this parasite; but although the parasites are so prevalent and destiuctive in the ruminants, they are seldom met with in the human being, and even when they occur may give but few indications of their presence. The following parasites are met with for the most part in tropical countries, but one of them, the Distomum sinense, has a wide dis- tribution in India, Annam, China, Japan, Corea, and in Mauritius. 3. Distomum sinense. — A lanceolate-shaped worm, narrowed in front, but widening behind until near the posterior extremity. It measures 22 mm. by 7 mm. in its widest part. The surface is smooth, and in appearance the para- site is of a fleshy colour and almost transparent. The ova are gourd-shaped, measuring 32 by 16 jtx, of a dark appearance, with a distinct operculum at the broader end. The embryo is a ciliated organism. 4. Distomum conjunctum is characterised by the surface of the body being covered by fine spines. The parasite is wide posteriorly, 2"5 mm., but tapers towards the head; in length it measures from 9 to 12 mm. The ova are operculated, shaped like a Florence flask, measuring 34 /x by 19 yu,. So far, this parasite has only been found in a few natives of India. Distomum hcematobium.—The Bilharziahmma- tobia is met with in the branches of the portal vein within the liver, and its eggs may be found embedded in the liver tissues. Although of classical interest, the presence of the bilharzia in the liver or portal vein is attended by no known clinical or pathological features. The clinical manifestations of this parasite are almost solely confined to the urinary passages, and it is in connection with these organs that a detailed account of this interesting parasite is to be found. Besides the distoma other parasites are met with. 5. Pentastomum constrictum. — In the liver and lungs of African negroes cysts have been found to contain a large whitish - coloured parasite, measuring 1 to IJ inch in length and I inch in breadth. The parasite is ringed, rounded, terminates abruptly behind, but an- teriorly exhibits hooks on either side of the oval apertures arranged in two pairs; and on the dorsum of the rings, which in a fully- developed Pentastomu7n constrictum number twenty-three, are fine spinous-looking processes. 6. Ascaris lumbricoides find their way into the biliary passages and may even become embedded in the liver. They may be met with singly or in considerable numbers. The en- trance of so large a worm into the biliary passages from the intestine is rather difficult to account for, and it has been asserted by some that it is only when the bile ducts are dilated by biliary calculi, by hydatids, or by other causes that the round worm can gain entrance. This contention, however, is refuted by the fact that the worm has been found in the bile ducts even of children. The clinical and pathological effects of the presence of parasites in the biliary passage vary with the parasite and with the numbers which infest the region. We have but few clinical records of the signs and symptoms associated with fluke worms in the liver. Pain in the hepatic region, continuing it may be many months; diarrha3a of long standing; vomiting and occasional hsematemesis; jaundice, slight or pronounced, may be present; convulsions, especially in children, and delirium in old persons, syncope or coma, hysterical attacks, sudden accessions of fever, abdominal distension, and peritonitis are amongst the more prominent