188 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM If the shoulder is felt it has to be distinguished from a knee, from the breech, and from the side of the face. Its characteristic points are the clavicle, acromion process, and spine of the scapula. If the examining finger is able to pass the point of the shoulder and to reach the ribs in the axilla, there can no longer be any doubt. If the elbow is at the os, it might be confused with the heel owing to the projection of the olecranon. The finger should be passed along the surface continuous with the projection, and the absence or presence of the sole of the foot, ending in the toes, will serve to identify the part. But such confusion cannot possibly arise if a careful abdominal examination has been made. The direction of the head and of the back of the child can be ascertained by abdominal and by combined examination. The axilla felt per vaginam shows which way the head lies, and the spine of the scapula shows the back. If the arm has come down, the thumb after supination of the hand will point to the head, and the palm will show which is the ventral surface of the child. If the prolapsed hand is the right one, the right hand of the physician will be able to grasp it as in shaking hands ; whereas if it is the left, this cannot be done. Natural Course of Labour if unassisted.—The prognosis is very unfavourable in these cases, both for the mother and the child. Speaking generally, the usual course of things is that the OS dilates very slowly, owing to the projection of the bag of membranes. This projection in the form of the finger of a glove, already mentioned, is due to the fact that there is no ball-valve in this case, such as is provided by the head in normal cephalic lies, to prevent the whole intra- uterine pressure coming on the bag of membranes. The membranes are therefore thrust forward unduly, and they rupture long before they have done their work. The cord often presents, and when the mem- branes rupture, prolapses, for the presenting part does not fit the lower uterine segment, and the cord slips past. This is made more easy by the child's belly being close to the os. When the membranes have ruptured, the liquor amnii drains rapidly away, and the uterus retracts on the fostus. The foetus is driven down into the lower uterine segment, which soon thins owing to the tension caused by the retracting upper segment and to the transverse stretching caused by the bulk of the child. The uterus may now become tetanic, and the woman may die in that way soon from exhaustion ; or the uterus may become exhausted, and then on a renewal of its efforts may become tetanic. Rupture of the vagina w louier uteririe segment may occur. S2}ontaneo2is deliver^/ of one of the kinds to be mentioned may take place. In all these cases the child soon dies after the membranes have ruptured, owing to the retrac- tion of the uterus. This arrests the placental circulation by pressure, and in the same way kills the nerve-centres. (For Management, see p. 203.) Spontaneous Delivery This is possible only when the child is dead or small. If it is alive, and possesses its muscular tone, delivery may happen by (1) spontaneous rectifi- cation ; (2) spontaneous version; or very rarely by (3) spontaneous evolution. If it is dead it may be delivered by (1) spontaneous evolution, or by (2) spontaneous expulsion (corpore conduplicato). KS2}ontaneous Rectification.—This occurs above the brim and with unruptured membranes. By this movement the lie is converted into a cephalic one. It is brought about by the tendency of the uterus to resume its normal shape during contraction. The projecting head and breech are pushed in towards the middle line, and the child is caused to lie in the axis of the uterus. This movement would be represented artificially by cephalic version. Sjyontaneous Version.—This is a podalic ver- sion of the child taking place spontaneously. As the uterus contracts the breech is forced down, and the trunk of the child is pushed across the brim in the direction of the head. This must take place soon after the membranes have rup- tured and when not too much liquor amnii has escaped. Then, even if the arm has prolapsed, which it often does, the elastic spinal column is able to transmit the pressure in such a way that at the cephalic end of it the direction of the force is converted into an upward one, the lowest point of the curve of the spine dipping a little way into the brim. The head rises and the breech is forced into the brim; the shoiilder rises out of the brim, and the lower part of the trunk turns into the hollow of the sacrum, thus bringing the head to the front well above the symphysis. The curve of the foetal spine, which has its convexity downwards to start with, comes now, on account of the descent of its caudal end, into the pelvis, to have its convexity upwards. The lower end of the child being in the axis of the cavity, the head is able to be pushed by the inward pres- sure of the uterine walls into the middle line, and the case is thus converted in an ordinary podalic lie. The important feature of this mechanism is that the descent of the caudal end of the foetus into the pelvic cavity takes place with the shoulders above the brim. This will be appre- ciated when the next paragraph is read. Spontaneous Evolution.—The events in this method of delivery occur below the brim. The child is practically always dead or very prema- ture, though delivery of a child at term by this movement has been recorded.