487 LIVER, DISEASES OF where the diagnosis of acute atrophy, and death, the patient being in a condition of coma, seemed equally certain, but where recovery followed. Fagge refers to a case where a subsequent post- mortem showed the changes of acute yellow atrophy in a patient who recovered from the acute symptoms. V. Kahlden reports a case in which death occurred some months after the acute symptoms, and where cirrhosis was in process of develop- ment as a result of the changes. This case is open to the explanation that it was one of acute hepatitis and icterus gravis rather than one of acute yellow atrophy. Although doubt may arise as to the real nature of the lesion in the cases that recover after manifesting the characteristic symptoms, there are ample grounds for the statement that this does occur. Treatment.—There is no means known of curing the disease ; theoretically, free purgation in the early stages of the disease, to eliminate the toxins before their degenerative effects have been produced, might be recommended. Intes- tinal antiseptics, such as salol and (6-naphthol, to reduce auto-intoxication as far as possible, may be given. The excretion of the kidneys should be in- creased by the administration of citrate of cafFein and free draughts of water. Intravenous transfusion has been performed with transient improvement. Milk diet only should be given. Vomiting may be combated by bismuth, dilute hydrocyanic acid, bimeconate of morphia, and effervescing mixtures. Weil's Disease History 487 Nature 487 Etiology 487 Bacteriology 487 Morbid Anatomy 487 Symptoms 487 Diagnosis 488 Prognosis 488 Treatment ...... 488 Synonyms : Infective Jaundice, Bilious Typhoid. History.—In 1886 Weil described a condition of febrile jaundice associated with nephritis and enlargement of the spleen. It occurs in epi- demics, one of which had previously been de- scribed by Weiss in 1866 as infectious jaundice. The disease was called after Weil of Heidelberg by his compatriots, but the French school did not consider it was different from icterus gravis or infectious jaundice. This unwillingness to acknowledge it as a new disease distinct from other forms of infectious jaundice is shared by Hunter in his article in Allbutt's System of Medicine. Nature.—Weil's disease is an excellent ex- ample of acute infective jaundice secondary to a hsemic infection, the nature of which has not been satisfactorily established. The jaundice is toxsemic, and has close analogies with that induced experimentally by means of toluylene- diamine. It is allied to, but less acute than, acute yellow atrophy of the liver, and cases formerly recorded as examples of recovery from acute yellow atrophy would probably be re- garded now by many as Weil's disease. Etiology.—It usually occurs in males be- tween the ages of twenty and forty, but children are sometimes affected. It is more likely to attack sewermen, butchers, soldiers, and others who follow certain occupations that expose the workers to infection. The onset of the disease is sometimes attributed to poisoning by bad meat. Most of the cases occur in the summer months, and are met with in epidemics. It may arise repeatedly in the same place. Bacteriology.—Jaeger and Banti have de- scribed a proteus bacillus in the blood. The former observer found the same organism in ducks dying of jaundice that frequented the water where his patients had bathed and pre- sumably had been infected ; the bacillus he de- scribed as B. proteus fluorescens. Further observations are required on this point. Morbid Anatomy.—The tissues of the body show the effects of a general toxic process. There is cloudy swelling of the cells of the kidney, liver, and heart muscle, going on to the further change of fatty metamorphosis. The changes in the liver may progress further and resemble those in acute yellow atrophy; the mucous membrane of the bile ducts becomes swollen and degenerated. Hsemorrhages may be present in the skin, mucous and serous membranes. The spleen is swollen. Symptoms.—The disease begins with malaise, headache, fever, pains in the limbs, and, gener- ally speaking, resembles influenza at its com- mencement. The pulse is rapid (120), but becomes slower after the onset of jaundice. Jaundice begins on the second or third day, is generally slight, and lasts about two weeks; the motions may be clay-coloured, but usually contain bile, and are aften loose. The liver becomes enlarged and tender, and a marked feature of the disease is the splenic enlargement. Fever reaching 103°-104° F. lasts for about a week; the temperature then falls and becomes normal at about the tenth day. The urine is albuminous, contains bile pig- ment, and sometimes blood and bile acids. The presence of casts shows that there is tubal nephritis. The pains in the limbs are especially marked in the calves; there is great prostration, giddi- ness, and some delirium at night.