LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 230 Fig. 46.—Direct pelvimetry, measure- ment 4 inclies. rods with knobs at their ends, which are intended to be applied to different points in the pelvic canal, so that the distance between the points may be measured. These answer excellently in the dried pelvis; but when the neophyte tries to use them on the living patient he finds that the pelvis contains a bladder and rectum, besides a uterus and vagina and a good deal of fibrous and muscular tissue, and that these parts are resist- ant and sensi- tive, so that it is often difficult to feel with the fingers the points between which measure- ment has to be made, much more to get metal knobs into position and hold them in position while distances are being measiired. Internal pelvimeters are, for this reason, practically useless. The best pelvi- meter is the hand, and the time when the pelvis can be exactly measured is immediately after delivery. How to do this was first accurately and clearly described by Mr. Robert Wallace Johnson in his System of Midwifery published in 1796. The proceeding should, there- fore, in justice be spoken of as "Johnson's method " of pelvimetry. It consists in in- troducing the whole hand into '7 / ll^^'^tl^^ y^J/^S pelvis, and 1" / i!/ ^^^/imw noting the part of the hand which fills the pelvis in the diameter which it is wished to measure. The following mea- surements (given by Mr. Johnson) are those of a man's hand of average size; they should be tested and corrected, if necessary, by measure- ment of the hand of the operator. 1. The fingers being bent into the palm, and the thumb extended and applied close to the middle joint of the forefinger, the distance Fia. 47.- -Direct pelvimetry, measure- ment 3i inches. between the end of the thumb and the outside of the middle joint of the little finger is 4 inches (Fig. 46). 2. In the above position the distance from the thumb at the root of the nail, in a straight line to the outside of the middle joint of the little finger, is 3^ inches (Fig. 47). 3. The fingers being in the same position, and Fig. 48.—Direct pelvimetry, measurement Z\ inches. the thumb laid obliquely along the joints next the nails of the first two fingers and bent down upon them, the distance between the outside of the middle joint of the forefinger and the outside of that of the little finger is 3;^ inches (Fig. 48). 4. The hand being opened and the fingers held straight, the whole breadth from the middle joint of the fore- finger to the last joint of the little finger is 3 inches (Fig. 49). 5. The fingers being so far bent as to bring their tips to a straight line, their whole breadth across the joint next to the nails is 2J inches (Fig. 50)." 6. When the first three fingers are thus bent their breadth across the same joint is 2 inches. 7. The breadth of the first two across the nail of the forefinger is \\ inches. In any case in which labour has been difticult, the length of the obstetrical conjugate should FlQ. 49.—Direct pelvimetry, measure- ment 3 inches. i