399 LEUCOCYTH.^MIA nised, and cases are much more likely to be labelled typhoid, purpura hfemorrhagica, or ulcerative endocarditis, than to be diagnosed for what they are. When the glands enlarge the blood is likely to be examined, and the diagnosis should then be made. In children there will sometimes be difficulty in making the diagnosis between pernicious anaemia and leucocythcEmia. All grave anaemias in children are apt to be accompanied by enlarge- ment of the spleen, and in the pernicious form there are more nucleated corpuscles in the blood than in the adult, and usually a leucocytosis which may inchide a fairly large percentage of myelocytes. The diagnosis must be made by the preponderating features in the blood, and is often very difficult. The name " anaemia pseudo-leukaemica infantum," given by von Jaksch to these difficult cases, does not seem to me to correspond to any well-defined clinical entity, and should be discarded. Treatment.—As in all blood diseases where the nutrition of the cardiac muscle is likely to be impaired, rest in bed is essential, with careful diet and general attention to ordinary hygienic principles. The bowels must be regu- lated, but without producing diarrhcea, which is always injurious. The only remedy which can be given with any confidence that it will be of use is arsenic, and this should be given in increasing doses up to the largest that can be borne, and continued for a long time. Iron in various forms, quinine, mercury, and many other drugs have been given, but without any constantly good results. The inhalation of oxygen has been reported to be useful, but one fails to see how its action can be other than temporary; while in the only case in which I have seen Ewart's inhalation of carbon dioxide tried it seemed to me to hasten rather than re- tard the fatal result. It is useless to try to reduce the size of the spleen by drugs or in- ternal remedies, and probably unjustifiable to remove it in this disease, as the mortality after the operation is so high and the procedure entirely without avail in arresting the disease. Bone-marrow in various forms has been given; but one fails to see how it could possibly be of use, and experience has confirmed this view. It must not be forgotten, in estimating the effect of remedies, that the disease is one in which, as in pernicious anaemia, though not with the same frequency, spontaneous improve- ment may take place, and this is specially apt to occur when the disease is diagnosed and the patient's surroundings improved. Until we gain a more exact knowledge of the causation of the disease we must be content with the benefit to be obtained from the empiric use of arsenic. One of the main tasks of the physician is the avoidance of complications, especially those associated with the alimentary and respira- tory systems. For example, the idiosyncrasies of patients with regard to food must be carefully studied, for if a gastro-intestinal catarrh be allowed to establish itself, it is often a very difficult matter to get rid of it. The same holds good, for instance, with bronchitis. Pre- vention of complications in these conditions is not only better, but a great deal easier than cure. \_X-Ray Treatment of Leukcemia.—The remark- able effects which Rontgen rays exert on sar- comatous and other tumours have naturally suggested them as likely to be serviceable in leukaemia. The earliest cases of this disease so treated were reported in America, and the credit of priority in the introduction of a remedy which, though not curative, is yet more likely than any other to prolong life and mitigate suffering, belongs to Pusey and Senn, who in 1903 and 1904 first brought the subject under the notice of the medical world. Since that time the treatment has been very extensively tested, and its value can now be fairly accurately estimated. As has been said, the X-rays do not cure leukaemia permanently; but in many instances, nevertheless, splenic and glandular enlarge- ments subside, the blood becomes practically normal, and the patient enjoys a period of respite from symptoms which may be of very considerable duration. The following tables, compiled by Pancoast, give the results of 123 cases treated between 1901 and 1906. Spleno- Lym- Un- meduUary. phatic. classified. Symptomatic cure 33 11 3 Improved. 22 8 1 Improved, and still under treatment . 14 1 0 Unimproved 13 10 3 Unknown 1 0 2 The final results in 63 cases are Still living and well . 2 2 0 Symptomatic cure, fatal relapse . 11 5 0 Symptomatic cure, serious relapse 5 0 0 Improvement, fatal relapse . 14 3 1 Unimproved, died 5 8 3 Relapsed and under treatment 4 0 0 The duration of symptomatic cure is variable. Though it often lasts only a few months, four patients at least are reported as alive and well three, four, and six yeai's after treatment. Myelocytic leukaemia appears to respond more readily than the lymphocytic type, and patients suffering from the acute form of the disease derive little benefit, or possibly harm, from the treatment. Technique.—A hard tube should be used, as being more penetrating and less likely to cause dermatitis. The sittings should be brief, from