474 LIVER, DISEASES OF syphilitic lesions of the liver may be present themselves under the following aspects :— (1) Resembling common cirrhosis and simple chronic peritonitis and perihepatitis. (2) Presenting the features of lardaceous disease, with albuminuria, oedema, and perhaps diarrhoea. (3) Resembling tumour of the liver or of the neighbouring parts. (4) Suggesting hepatic abscess. (I) If a gumma presses on the portal vein or its branches, the symptoms of portal obstruction —-hfematemesis, dilated abdominal veins, ascites, asthenia, wasting, etc.—will follow. These are the cases that recover under iodide of potassium, and probably account for some of the reputed cures of common cirrhosis. If the gumma is large, absorption may be imperfect, and a cicatrix will be left behind which may permanently compress the portal vein and bile duct in the hilum of the liver and not yield to antisyphilitic treatment. These cases then closely resemble cirrhosis in the symptoms. Jaundice is a rare event in syphilitic disease of the liver ; ascites is much more frequent. The presence of gummata on the surface of the liver sets up local perihepatitis, and thus gives rise to discomfort, dragging, and even pain in the hepatic region which may radiate up to the right shoulder. The perihepatitis is very seldom universal; when this is the case it may account for ascites ; ascites may also be due to extension of the chronic inflammation to the peritoneum, while a rare cause is narrowing and stricture of the hepatic veins by gummatous infiltration, or the contraction of cicatrices near their opening into the inferior vena cava. Diagnosis from Cirrhosis. — A history of infection and manifest signs of syphilis are indications for active antisyphilitic treatment that should never be neglected. If it is palpable, the syphilitic liver will probably be felt to be irregular ; and if enlarged, the increase in size is not uniform, or shared in by the left lobe as it is in large cirrhosis livers. Enlargement of the spleen in the absence of lardaceous disease, which itself suggests syphilis, points to cirrhosis. An alcoholic history and long-continued dyspepsia are also in favour of cirrhosis. Diagnosis from siniple Chronic Peritonitis and Periheimtitis.—Cases of syphilitic disease of the liver in which ascites recurs will closely resemble cases of simple chronic peritonitis, of which chronic universal perihepatitis is only a part. Chronic and recurrent ascites only occurs in a small proportion of the cases of syphilitic disease of the liver, while it is constant in cases of simple peritonitis and perihepatitis. In order, therefore, to regard a case of recurrent ascites as due to syphilitic disease of the liver, there must be undoubted evidence of syphilis in the body, and of enlargement and irregularities on the surface of the liver, such as would be pro- duced by gummata and not by chronic peri- hepatitis. Treatment by iodides, if successful in a doubt- ful case, would point to syphilis. (2) When gummata in the liver are associated with widespread lardaceous disease, the albu- minuria and oedema of the legs may render the aspect of the case that of lardaceous disease, and no symptoms may be found suggesting gummata in the liver. (3) Gummata imitating Hepatic Tumours.—- When, as they usually are, gummata are situated on the anterior surface of the liver, the irregularities they give rise to may be readily felt through the abdominal wall. The elevations of the liver substance due to the contraction of cicatrices are also easily palpable. These nodules, however, are not umbilicated as the secondary carcinomatous nodules are; but no stress can be laid on umbilication, for it may be felt over a gumma projecting from the surface of the liver. When gummata are associated with lardaceous change in the same liver the enlargement may be very considerable, and the resemblance to carcinoma very considerable. The irregularities produced by cicatrices in a lardaceous liver have a similar resemblance to malignant disease. In such cases albuminuria points to lardaceous disease, and is therefore in favour of syphilis. Jaimdice and ascites, especially together, are more likely to be met with in malignant disease ; other points in favour of growth are rapid increase in the size of the liver, marked con- stitutional symptoms, and, of course, any signs of a growth elsewhere. In a syphilitic subject, enlargement and irregularity of the liver may be due either to gummatous disease or to new growth ; for syphilis, of course, in no way protects against malignant disease. The vigorous administration of iodides and mercury should decide the question, diminution in size of the liver settling the diagnosis in favour of gumma. Difficulty sometimes arises in deciding be- tween gummatous infiltration of a lobe of the liver and a hydatid cyst covered over by a layer of liver substance. The general health in hydatid is unaffected unless suppuration has occuri-ed, and the liver is smooth, whereas in syphilis other signs of the disease and irregu- larity of the liver should be present. In any doubtful case iodides should be given at once. It can very rarely happen that a gumma imitates a distended gall-bladder, but this has occurred. (4) Occasionally an irregular or hectic tem- perature accompanies gummatous change in the liver, and might suggest ordinary suppuration, malaria, tuberculosis, or even typhoid fever: it usually yields to iodides. As a result of secondary infection a gumma