LIVER, DISEASES OF 441 pulsation is present, the commoner condition of aortic aneurysm would be more likely to suggest itself. Enlakgement of a compensatory nature of the hepatic artery is seen in some cases of new growth, cirrhosis, and in thrombosis of the portal vein of some standing. Diseases of the Hepatic Veins Thrombosis of the hepatic veins is somewhat rare, and is hardly likely to be diagnosed cor- rectly during life. Causes.—It may be secondary to changes in the liver, such as the extension of new growth, the softening down and discharge of adenomata {vide p. 467) into the veins, or the spread of inflammation from a focus in the liver to the walls of the vein. Thrombosis may be secondary to stricture of the trunks of the hepatic veins {vide infra). In rare instances thrombosis may spread from a parietal clot not completely ob- structing the inferior vena cava, or be secondary to obliteration of that vessel. In exceptional instances it is met with as part of a widespread thrombotic process. Results.—A condition of chronic venous con- gestion or nutmeg liver with the rapid develop- ment of ascites follows thrombosis of the hepatic veins. Occasionally the stagnation thus in- duced may set up thrombosis of the portal vein. Embolism.—Embolism of the hepatic veins can only occur when the embolus travels against the blood stream and enters the hepatic veins from the inferior vena cava, or, in other words, be retrograde. Retrograde embolism of veins is very rare; when it occurs it is more fre- quently seen in the hepatic veins, since they are not protected by valves, and are so close to the heart that fragments of growth or thrombus may drop into their orifices either from the inferior vena cava or the heart and superior vena cava. Welch, in his article on embolism, quotes examples of fragments of new growth being found in the hepatic veins in cases where the primary growths were in the abdomen and thyroid body. It seems probable that in cases of cranial suppuration with secondary abscesses in the liver without any abscesses in the lungs, the micro-organisms may drop down the jugular vein, superior vena cava, right auricle and in- ferior vena cava into the orifices of the hepatic veins, and so infect the liver. The production of retrograde embolism probably depends on the temporary stagnation or reversal of the direc- tion of a blood flow. Thus if the thrombus was passing up the inferior cava and a violent expiratory eff'ort or cough occurred at the moment when it was opposite the openings of the hepatic veins, the embolus might be carried into the liver. Stricture and Stenosis.—Stricture may be due to the contraction of adhesions around the hepatic veins near their entrance into the in- ferior vena cava. This may be due to changes starting in or outside the liver. Gummatous inflammation may spread to the walls of the vein and set up peri- and endo-phlebitis, the latter leading to narrowing of the lumen (endo- phlebitis obliterans). This may occur in con- genital or in acquired syphilis. Syphilis seems a probable factor in the production of most of the recorded cases of this rare condition. Prob- ably chronic inflammation due to other causes may bring about a similar narrowing of the hepatic veins. The hepatic veins may be pressed upon from without by new growths, tumours, etc., and so be narrowed. The symptoms referable to stricture of the hepatic veins are much the same as those of thrombosis of the veins, to w^hich it may give rise. Suppurative Inflammation is more likely to spread to the hepatic veins in hepatic abscess, etc., than to the branches of the portal vein, since the latter are more protected by Glisson's capsule. In suppurative phlebitis of the hepatic veins secondary abscesses in the lungs and general pytemia are, of course, likely to follow Diseases of the Lymphatic Vessels OF the Liver Very little is known about the morbid con- ditions of the lymphatic vessels of the liver. They are affected when tuberculosis and lymph- adenoma attack the liver, and can hardly escape in acute cholangitis and pylephlebitis. In tuberculous and chronic peritonitis and peri- hepatitis the inflammatory process spreads in- wards from the capsule, possibly by means of the lymphatics, for some little distance. New growth may sometimes be seen working its way into the liver against the lymph stream along the lymphatics of the portal fissure ; more commonly the glands in the portal fissure be- come infected secondarily to a growth in the liver, the infecting cells travelling in the normal direction along the lymphatic vessels. Distension of the lymphatic vessels in the portal spaces occasionally occurs from pressure ; it has also occurred in hepatoptosis from torsion of the lymphatics around the bile duct. In diabetic liptemia I have seen the lym- phatics of the portal spaces graphically mapped out by the contained fat. The Lymphatic Glands in the Portal Fis- sure.—Any enlargement of those glands is of importance, inasmuch as pressure may thus be exerted on the bile ducts and jaundice set up. Thus it has been thought, but probably without suflicient reason, that the jaundice which in rare instances occurs in the roseolous stage of syphilis may be due to swelling of the glands in the portal fissure. Enlargement of the portal glands may occur in lardaceous disease and leukaemia, but cannot be credited with producing jaundice