KNEE-JOINT, INJURIES OF 145 cases recover with perfect movement if asepsis has been preserved. Fractuebs in Vicinity of Knee-Joint Fractures op t Lower End of Femur.—The varieties to be distinguished are: (a) supra- condyloid, (b) oblique and T-shaped fractures of the condyles, (c) detachments of parts of the articular surface. (a) Supracondyloid fractures may be trans- verse just above the condyles, or oblique; sometimes spiral, due to twisting of the bone. When transverse or oblique the displacement of the lower fragment is typical, the powerful gastrocnemius tending to flex it toward the popliteal space, so that the upper fragment overrides the lower; the knee-joint may be involved as a result of this injury. A serious complication may be found in pressure on or rupture of the popliteal vessels by the lower fragment when the displacement is extreme, resulting in thrombosis of the artery or gan- grene of the leg. Diagnosis. — The signs are : shortening of thigh, crepitus, abnoral mobility, and projection of the displaced fragment. If the knee-joint be involved there will be effusion into it. Pulsa- tion in the tibial vessels should be sought for; its absence renders the condition much more serious. Treatment consists in giving an anaesthetic and reducing the displacement by extension. If the fragments can be easily controlled, the limb should be placed in a straight splint with extension. If the tendency to displacement be well marked, the knee should be bent and the limb placed on a double-inclined plane, with extension in the line of the thigh, or a Hodgen splint may be used. If the displacement per- sists, the tendo Achillis should be divided. The joint may be aspirated if much effusion of blood is present. Massage and passive movement should be commenced in fourteen days, by which time sufficient callus should be formed. Injury to the popliteal artery may result in a traumatic aneuryism and arrest of the circula- tion in the leg, in which case it will be necessary to incise the popliteal space, turn out the clots, and ligature both ends of the artery. The removal of the pressure of the clot may allow of a sufficient collateral anastomosis through the articular branches to save the limb. This anastomosis is not, however, good, because the blood must pass through two sets of capillaries —from profunda and anastomotica—into the articulars, and thence into the tibials. If, therefore, the leg still remains cold after the pressure of the aneurysm has been removed, gangrene is imminent, and amputation just above the seat of the fracture is necessary. Oblique or T-shaped Fractures of the Condyles. —Oblique fractures of one or other condyle VOL. V may occur from severe violence; the fracture runs from the intercondyloid notch obliquely upwards. Displacement is usually slight, as the fragment remains attached to the lateral ligament. In the T-shaped fracture the split between the condyles is more vertical, and both are separated from the shaft. Diagnosis is made by the recognition of lateral mobility and crepitus, increase of width of the knee, pain on pressure about the condyles, effusion of blood into the knee, and the presence sometimes of sharp projections of bone. Treatment. — Is best treated in a slightly flexed position on a Hodgen splint. Extension and elastic compression to the joint should be applied ; if necessary, the joint may be aspirated first. Great care should be taken to get the limb straight in putting up this form of fracture, as there is considerable tendency to genu valgum or varum after such an injury. Early massage, and in a fortnight passive movement, should be carried out to avoid ankylosis. Fractures of Parts of the Articular Surface.— Very rarely the attachments of the lateral liga- ments may be detached along with part of the articular edge in dislocations of the knee. Fracture of Tibia below Tuberosities.— Also a rare injury, and results from direct violence as a rule, e.g. a kick; indirect violence, such as might lead to fracture of the lower end of femur, or a dislocation of the knee, may be responsible for it. The line of fracture may be oblique, and may enter knee-joint and cause synovitis. Diagnosis depends chiefly on the increased width of the bone, tenderness on pressure, abnormal mobility, and crepitus. The use of an anaesthetic or the X-rays will aid the diagnosis. Treatment. — Weight, extension, with the injured region left exposed to allow of massage, and compression by a bandage. Any tendency to varus or valgus should be watched for and corrected at once. After four weeks plaster- of-Paris may be applied. Fracture from Compression of Tibia through ITS Articular Surface is caused by the forcible pressure of the tibia against one or other of the femoral condyles in a fall from a height on to the feet, occurs in falls from a dogcart, during mountaineering, or jumping oft' a bicycle. There may be simply a fissure traversing the joint surface, but in bad cases the end of the tibia may be crushed into two or more frag- ments, between which the shaft is impacted. The Signs are great tenderness with increased width of upper end of tibia, perhaps abnormal lateral mobility. If fracture involves only one- half of tibial articular surface there may be a tendency to varus or valgus, the former being more frequent as the inner tuberosity is more 10