362 LARYNX, MALIGNANT DISEASE OF extending from there downwards, so that not only total extirpation of the larynx, but also resection of a large part of the oesophagus, would be required—a class of cases, moreover, almost always complicated by early and very considerable implication of the cervical lym- phatic glands—palliative measures will have to be resorted to to maintain as long as possible the patient's general health and strength. Should there be much difficulty in respiration, tracheotomy ought to be performed at not too late a period. The relief given by that opera- tion is much greater if it be not postponed till the very last, when, often enough, its first result is an acute bronchial catarrh, which takes away still more of the patient's strength. Trecheotomy in these cases ought to be performed low down, so that, if possible, the tracheotomy wound may not be reached by the disease in its further progress. Often enough, considerable subjective improvement will be noticeable if the patient permits of the tracheotomy being performed in time. Should there be great pain from the ulcerating surfaces, cocaine in the form of a spray, or orthoform by means of insufflations, will do palliative service, and in the more advanced stages injections of morphia may have to be resorted to. Should the growth ulcerate externally, applications of bismuth in powder form are of value. The diet, of course, particularly if the swallowing be painful, should be of a soft, semisolid, bland kind; and finally, feeding either through an oesophageal tube or by means of nutrient enemata may be required. Neuroses of Larynx Innervation of the Larynx . . . 362 Sensory Neuroses ..... 363 Anaesthesia ..... 363 HyperoBsthesia ..... 364 Motor Neuroses— Inspiratory Spasm in Adults . . 364 Nervous Laryngeal Cough . . 364 Phonic Spasm . . . . .365 Laryngeal Vertigo . . . .365 Paralysis op the Vocal Cords— Lesions of Superior Laryngeal . . 366 Lesions of Recurrent Laryngeal . 366 The Diagnosis of Laryngeal Paralysis 367 Hypertrophy of the Lingual Tonsil . 369 See also Laryngismus Stridulus, p. 373. The larynx subserves two main functions, viz., phonation and respiration. Phonation is a volitional act, and the nerve centres for this function are mainly represented in the cerebral cortex. There are, however, phonetic acts which are mainly reflex in character, viz., coughing, sighing, hiccough, etc., and these, like other somatic I'eflexes, are mainly repre- sented in the bulbar centres. Respiration is essentially a reflex act, and therefore the respiratory centre is mainly represented in the bulb; and the bulbar centres (in the dog) have been shown by Horsley and Semon to suffice for respiration after complete removal of the cerebral hemispheres. For these two essentially distinct functions there are two separate sets of muscles, viz., the adductors of the vocal cords for phonation, and the abductors or glottis- openers for respiration. Innervation of the Larynx.—The larynx receives its nerve-supply from the superior and recurrent laryngeal branches of the vagus nerve on either side; the former supplies sensation to the whole of the mucous membrane of the larynx, and is also the motor nerve to the crico-thyroid muscle. The recurrent laryngeal nerve contains no sensory fibres, except, perhaps, muscle-sense fibres, and is the motor nerve to all the intrinsic laryngeal muscles except the crico-thyroid. It is probable that the inter- arytenoideus muscle receives motor twigs from both the superior and inferior laryngeal nerves of both sides. Vaso-motor and secretory nerve fibres are supplied to the whole of the laryngeal mucous membrane by the superior laryngeal nerves. Without entering on the debated ground as to whether the nuclear centres of the motor fibres of the laryngeal branches of the vagus nerve in the medulla are anatomically associated with the spinal accessory nucleus, or with the common glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nucleus, the nucleus ambiguus, it must be admitted that the weight of evidence is in favour of the latter view. In other words, the lower portion of the nucleus ambiguus corresponding to the accessory nerve roots emerging from the bulb, which may be conveniently distinguished by the term vago-accessory, are in this sense the lower roots of the vagus. No confusion will arise from the employment of the term vago-accessory to the motor roots, and the motor nuclei of the motor nerve fibres to the larynx which are contained in the vagus nerves. In addition to this ventral large-celled nucleus or nucleus ambiguus, there is a dorsal small-celled nucleus, the so-called combined nucleus which lies ex- ternal to the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve in the medulla; this is a motor root, and it has been suggested that it is a nucleus for unstriped muscle. The sensory nuclei of the vagus are contained in its root and trunk ganglia, from which the axones enter the bulb and pass to the nuclei in the gelatinous substance in the neighbourhood of the fasciculus solitarius. The cortical laryngeal centres have been located in the anterior portion of the lower extremity of the ascending frontal convolution, thus on the left side forming a part of Broca's speech centre. Thence their fibres pass down through corona radiata and internal capsule to reach the medulla oblongata. Semon and Horsley have demonstrated in