379 LEGAL MEDICINE Legfal Medicine. See Medicine, For- ensic. Leg'al'S Disease. — Tenderness and pain on the part of the scalp suppHed by the auriculo-temporal nerve, with catarrh of the pharynx and middle ear; cephalalgia pharyngo- tympanica. Legitimacy.—The fact of being legiti- mate, i.e. in accordance with law; thus we speak of the legitimacy of a child born in wed- lock or within a number of months after the death of the father. See Illegitimacy. Leg'UmenS.—The seeds of the Legwni- nosce. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Vegetable Food-Stuffs). Legruminosse. — A natural order of plants, the pea and bean tribe, containing many seeds used as food; some of them con- tain a proteid, legumin, or vegetable casein; the vetches also belong to this order. See Lathyrism. Leilman's Sig^n.—If, during the giving of chloroform, the patient's eyelids keep opening although closed by the anaesthetist, the anses- thetisation will be difficult. LeiO-.—In compound words leio- (Gr. Acios, smooth) means smooth or glossy, e.g. leiodermia, leiomyoma. Leiodermia.—'A smooth or glossy con- dition of the skin due to atrophic changes; a form of xerodermia. Leiomyoma.—A tumour composed of unstriped (smooth) muscular tissue; a fibroid, e.g. of the uterus. LeiShman-Body.—A parasitic body found by Leishman in the spleen in cases of Kala-azar or Piroplasmosis. See Donovan- Leishman Bodies ; Malaria ; etc. Leiter's Coil or Tubes Flexible metal tubes which can be applied closely to any part of the body {e.g. the head), and through which cold water can be made to flow; an apparatus for reducing the temperature of a part. Lembert Suture.—Amethod of closing an opening (wound or incision) in the intestine by bringing peritoneum into relation with peri- toneum. The peritoneal and muscular coats are transfixed by the needle transversely on one side of the opening ; the needle is then brought out and carried across the opening to transfix the same coats on the opposite side, and in this way the wall is doubled in peritoneum being brought into contact with peritoneum. A modi- fied form of this suture is used to close the uterus in cases of Caesarean section. See In- testines, Surgical Affections of {Treatment). Lemniscus. — A band of nerve fibres passing from nuclei in the medulla upward through the pons and crus cerebri to the cere- brum, where it divides into the lateral and median fillets ; the fillet. Lemon.—Lemon Peel, Limonis Cortex; obtained from the fruit of Citrus medica, var. Limonum, grown in the south of Europe. It contains a volatile oil and a bitter principle. Preparations—1. Syrup us Limonis. Dose— ^-13. Lemon juice is also used in its prepara- tion. 2. Tinctura Limonis. Dose—\-\ 5. 3. Oleum Limonis. Dose—-|-3 m. Lemon peel is contained in Infusum Aurantii Composittim and Infusum Gentianse Compositum. The pre- parations of lemon peel are used as flavouring agents. Succus Limonis, Lemon Juice, is the freshly expressed juice of the ripe lemon. It contains citric acid, both free and in the form of salts, chiefly salts of potassium. Dose—3. Lemon juice is very valuable in the treatment and prevention of scurvy; it is more efficacious than citric acid itself, probably because of the large quantity of potassium salts contained in it. It is also used to relieve thirst, usually in the form of an effervescing drink. See also Hydropathy (Wafer-Drinking); Pharmacology ; etc. Lemonade. See Invalid Feeding {Bev- erages, Lemo7iade); Lemon ; Trades, Dangerous {Lead Poisoning, Preventive Treatment, Acidu- lated Drinks). Lenig'aliol.—Triacetate of pyrogallol; used, as an ointment, in eczema and psoriasis (strength, ^ to 5 per cent). Lenirobin.—Tetracetate of chrysarobin, employed in skin diseases. Lenitive. — Soothing, emollient, demul- cent, or gently laxative {e.g. a lenitive electuaiy). Lenk. See Balneology {Switzerland, Canton Bern). LennllOff'S Sig'n.—In cases of hydatid cyst of the abdomen, a furrow is seen to form between the tumour and the edge of the ribs on deep inspiration ; this is called Lennhoff's sign. Lens (Crystalline). Anatomy and Physiology . . . 379 Displacements ..... 380 Lbnticonus . . . . . .381 MiCROPHAKIA ...... 381 Coloboma ...... 381 See also Accommodation {Condition of Lens) ; Cataract ; Eye, Clinical Examination of ; Eyeball, Injuries of {Dislocation of Lens) ; Glaucoma {Causes of Secondary Glaucoma, Dis- location of Lens) ; Refraction. The crystalline lens and the cornea are the