125 KIDNEY fine forceps or scoop; but sometimes it is necessary to break up a large mass before it can be delivered from the renal wound. A stone after being removed from the pelvis should always be examined very carefully for chipped surfaces, for there is a very real danger of leaving a portion of a branched calculus behind; and for the same reason it is well to flush out the pelvis with a copious stream of aseptic solution. After removal of the concretion the kidney wound is closed by catgut sutures, and the lumbar wound closed except for a couple of drains retained in place for a few days. Some authorities prefer to open the pelvis (pyelotomy) rather than cut through the kidney substance. The advantages claimed are the rapidity and ease of the operation, and that the kidney is spared the after-effects of an incision through its parenchyma. For small stones in the pelvis discovered immediately by the finger the method is undoubtedly of service, but there is much less space for manipulation and greater difficulty in removing a large calculus, and especially if it is branched, and there is a greater probability of a sinus resulting (Albarran). Morris and Israel recommend the closure of the pelvic wound by Lembert's sutures, by which means the danger of a persisting sinus is lessened; the application of sutures, however, is often very difficult (Gliterbock). The patient is usually able to be up three weeks after the operation. Nephrotomy consists in incising a kidney which has been more or less destroyed by sup- puration or back pressure, or both, or which is the seat of a cyst. The incision in no way differs from that described in other kidney operations. In cutting on the kidney the tissues are likely to be cedematous and excessively vascular, and the perinephritic fat infiltrated and often increased in amount, while sometimes pus is discovered surrounding the kidney. On reaching the distended kidney an incision is made into it and the finger introduced. A calculus should be searched for in cases of hydro- and pyo-nephrosis, cheesy material re- moved in tubercular kidney, and the mortar- like phosphatic material sometimes found in dilated kidneys, scraped and washed away. A large double drain should be placed in the kidney sac. Sometimes it is possible to stitch up the kidney wound, even after operation upon a sup- purating kidney, but in most cases this is undesirable. Nephrectomy.—A kidney may be removed by an abdominal or a lumbar incision, the relative values of which have already been noticed. The kidney having been exposed, adhesions to the surrounding parts should be separated. This is often exceedingly difficult, and requires great care and gentleness. The pedicle next claims attention. It should be isolated as far as possible; sometimes, however, dense adhesions surround the vessels and may unite the kidney by a cicatricial mass to the vena cava or aorta, and make this part of the operation difiicult and dangerous. The kidney is now raised and steadied by an assistant while the ureter is separated from the rest of the pedicle. Through the vascular part of the pedicle a stout silk ligature is now passed by means of an aneurysm needle, tension on the pedicle is then relaxed, and the ligature firmly tied. The ureter is clamped with forceps, and the whole pedicle cut through by short cuts of the scissors, and at a sufficient distance from the ligature to avoid the danger of its slipping. The ureter is now examined; if healthy, it is dropped back into the abdomen after being closed by ligature. Thornton and Albarran have recommended fixing it in the lower part of the wound, but this is an unnecessary precaution. If inflamed, or the seat of tubercular infection, some attempt may be made with antiseptics or the cautery to remove at least a part of the dis- ease, and often it gives no further trouble. The most radical method of treatment is to follow it down, and to isolate and remove it either at the time of the nephrectomy or at a later date. The wound is then closed, and the cavity left by removal of the kidney is drained for varying periods according to the character of the case. Subcapsular nephrectomy was introduced by Oilier. It is most useful when an enlarged kidney is firmly bound to surrounding struc- tures by adhesions, but should never be used in dealing with malignant tumours. The capsule proper of the kidney is incised and peeled off", and the pedicle clamped. The kidney is now removed, and a silk ligature is applied to the pedicle. If the pedicle is short and thick, clamps may be used. They should be allowed to remain in situ for at least forty-eight hours. The objection to the operation is the rigidity of the walls of the cavity, which delays healing. Partial nephrectomy or resection of the kidney has been performed by Czerny, Tuffier, Morris, and others for localised tumours, ab- scesses, and cysts, and for injury. The opera- tion has not as yet been widely adopted, but is a sign of the present tendency to conservatism in renal surgery. Operations on the Ureter Operations on the ureter usually follow an exploration of the kidney, and the abdominal portion of the tube is exposed by extending the lumbar incision downwards and forwards and raising the peritoneum. A stone situated in the ureter may sometimes be pushed up by the fingers and extracted through the renal or pelvic wound; sometimes.