LEUCOCYTOSIS 404 some cases of gastric and intestinal catarrh, and in whooping-cough. The increase in these con- ditions appears to occur more readily and to be more marked in children than in adults. Ac- cording to Ehrlich's view, lymphocytosis occurs where a raised lymph circulation in a more or less extensive area washes an increased number of lymphocytes out of the lymphoid tissue, i.e. is the result of a mechanical process, as opposed to chemiotaxis, which is the basis of ordinary and eosinophile leucocytosis. Further investi- gation is, however, necessary before we can definitely exclude chemiotaxis as a factor in the occurrence of lymphocytosis. 3. Eosinophile Leucocytosis. — Whatever may be the actual genetic relationship between the finely granular and coarsely granular oxy- phile leucocytes of the blood, there is no doubt that in pathological conditions they behave as two distinct classes, both as concerning their emigration to the tissue and as regarding their variation in number in the blood. The increase of eosinophiles has been specially studied within late years, and now certain sets of conditions have been recognised in which it is the rule. (1) In asthma there is often a most marked increase in the number of eosinophiles, not in- frequently up to 10 or 20 per cent; the increase is most marked during an attack of the disease. (2) In certain acute and chronic diseases of the skin—pemphigus, urticaria, psoriasis, etc. Here again the proportion of eosinophiles may be very markedly increased, though the total number of leucocytes does not rise much above the normal. (3) In helminthiasis, eosinophilia appears to be the rule. In trichiniasis the increase is very marked, and in one case at least the number observed was about 50 per cent of the total number of leucocytes. In affections with other round-worms, such as ankylostoma duodenale, and even ascarides and oxyurus, eosinophilia occurs; in fact, this increase appears to be the rule. An increase in the eosinophiles has also been observed in some cases of malignant disease, especially with metastases in the bone-marrow ; the post-febrile leucocytosis has been referred to above. With regard to diminution in the number of eosinophiles, the most important condition is ordinary leucocytosis, especially those of rapid occurrence, e.g. in acute pneumonia. As al- ready mentioned, the leucocytes may practically disappear from the blood, and in other condi- tions their number may be at least very much diminished. It is important to note that the eosinophiles are very numerous in the bronchial secretion in asthma and in the affected tissues in those skin diseases attended with eosinophilia. One other interesting point with regard to such skin affec- tions is that when an acute inflammatory or suppurative condition is added, the leucocytes which emigrate from the blood-vessels are of the finely granular neutrophile variety. This would go to show that in the particular affec- tion there is present some substance which acts chemiotactically upon or attracts the eosinophiles, but that agents that produce sup- purative processes attract the neutrophiles. In short, all the evidence goes to show that the two classes of cells are attracted by different substances, but that their emigration into the tissue, and increase in number in the blood, are brought about by similar mechanisms. Nature of Leucocytosis. — We have so far considered the chief variations in the different forms of leucocytes met with under clinical conditions, but it is important that the vital processes underlying these variations should be understood. The relations of the different forms of leucocyte are still subject of contro- versy, and we shall only make general state- ments which seem to us of importance, as well as justified by fact. If we look at the question from the experimental side, we find that leuco- cytosis may be produced by a great variety of methods, the chief of which are the inocula- tion with certain organisms and the injection of certain chemical substances. Of the latter we may mention three chief groups as examples, viz. : (a) Certain bacterial products or substances separated from bacteria; {h) extracts made from various tissues, especially those rich in cells, such as spleen, lymphatic glands, etc.; (c) certain definite chemical substances, e.g. peptone, curare, nucleic acid, etc. By the in- jection of these substances the number of leucocytes may be doubled in the course of an hour or two, and in such cases also the increase is on the part of the finely granular cells. What, then, is the soui'ce of these cells added to the blood"? Ehrlich holds, and our own observations completely confirm his contention, that the chief, if not the exclusive, source of these cells is the bone-marrow, where they are formed from the finely granular myelocytes. Further, in the normal condition a considerable number of these polymorpho-nuclear leucocytes are present in the marrow in close relation to the blood- stream, forming a reserve store as it were. Thus a means is afforded for a rapid addition of these leucocytes to the blood. There is, we believe, practically no doubt that, just as in inflammation the emigration of leucocytes is guided in by chemiotaxis, so also their passage from the bone-marrow into the blood is brought about by a similar agency. We have also been able to show that in long-standing suppuration, where there is a great drain on the finely granu- lar leucocytes, there also occurs a great increase of the finely granular myelocytes, and evidence of increased multiplication amongst these cells —a change which we consider can only be inter- preted as a provision for the increased demand. (To a marrow thus changed we have applied the designation leucoblastic," as contrasted with