LARYNX, LARYNGISMUS STRIDULUS 375 to sit in a bath containing a small quantity of hot water and, immediately a jug of cold water (60° F.) is emptied over his back and shoulders; he is then taken out and thoroughly dried before the fire, and rubbed till he is warm. This may be done once, twice, or even oftener in the day, and is very beneficial even in cases where the child is frightened by it. Sedatives, of which antipyrin and phenacetin are the most useful, may also be given. Should there be constipation or an unhealthy character of the motions, it is well to begin the treatment with a dose of calomel. The inhalation of smelling salts sometimes cuts short a paroxysm. La,S£inon.—A bed-pan, night-stool, or obstetric chair (Gr. Aaa-avov). Lasdg^ue'S Law.—The fact that there is an increase in the reflexes of an organ affected by functional troubles or superficial lesions, while there is a suppression of them in organic lesions. LaS^gue'S Sig'n.—A hysterical pheno- menon ; the person affected is unable to move a part of the body unless she sees it; it is usually associated with tactile and muscular angesthesia of the affected part. See Hysteria {Symptoms, Motor Disorders, Amyosthenia). Laserol.—A resinous substance {<^-^^^^^ obtained from Laserpitin (the crystalline sub- stance, Cj5H2204, contained in the root of Laserpitium latifolium, laserwort or herb frankincense). LaSSar'S Paste.—A paste or ointment used in the treatment of eczema and other skin eruptions ; it consists of salicylic acid, zinc oxide, starch (powdered), and vaseline. Lassitude.—Exhaustion and fatigue, such as are in health produced by exertion, unassoci- ated with any preceding exertion. See Typhoid Fever {Symptoms, ]Ve?-vous System). Latah.—A curious mental affection met with in the Malay Peninsula, Java, and in certain parts of Russia, characterised by symptoms which depend on an increased susceptibility to the influence of suggestion. It is a peculiar emotional disease closely allied to those known as dancing mania and the various religious psychopathies. " Under ordinary circumstances the subjects of latah appear in no way different from their neighbours. But on the occurrence of some sudden and startling impression, such as a loud sound or anything calculated to produce a vivid impression, or on witnessing particular movements, or on hearing peculiar sounds, or in response to some overt suggestion by word, movement, or facial expression on the part of an experimenter, they pass into a peculiar mental state in which they involuntarily utter certain sounds or words or execute certain movements. In other instances they will imitate words and movements, or yield themselves to suggestions coming from others, or even from the phenomena of external nature. During their hypnotic-like state, which in some may last for a few moments, in others for an indefinite time, or until removed by a contrary suggestion, although consciousness and intellect are clear, and although strenuous efforts may be made to resist suggestion, the victim is at the mercy of his prompter, and will inevitably follow any lead indicated, no matter the consequences." (Manson.) This extract briefly indicates the leading features of the dis- ease. For further information regarding this the reader is referred to the literature. LITERATURE.—Clifford Allbutt. System of Medicine, vol. viii., with bibliography. Latent.—Concealed or masked ; existing, but not evident or fully developed ; thus we speak of latent empyema {see Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation of. Chronic Suppuration or Latent Empyema), latent hypermetropia {see Refraction, Hypermetropia), latent peritonitis {see Peritoneum, Acute Peritonitis, Symptoms), latent strabismus {see Strabismus, Superable Squint), and latent typhoid fever {see Typhoid Fever, Forms of. Ambulatory or Latent). The latent period in the development of a disease is the incubation time, when the malady is really present in the system but has not yet manifested itself by symptoms. In Physiology, the latent period is that which intervenes between the stimulation and the resulting contraction of a muscle {see Physiology, Tissues, Muscle, Cowrse of Contraction). Latent is opposed in meaning to patent. Laterad.—Towards the side or lateral aspect of anything ; similarly formed words are cephalad (towards the head), caudad (towards the tail), dextrad (towards the right side), and dorsad (towards the back). Lateral Chain Theory. See Im- munity {Side Chain Theory). Lateral Curvature. See Spine, Surgical Affections of {Scoliosis). Lateral Deviation.—Deflection to the side, especially applied to displacement of an organ, like the uterus, which is situated in the middle line. See Labour, Protracted {Lateral Obliquity of the Uterus). Lateral Fillet. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Localisation of Seat of Lesion in Nerve-Deafness). Lateral Operation.—The operation of lithotomy, in which the incision is made on one or the other side of the perineum. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of {Calctdus, Lithotomy).