LABOUE, RETENTION OF PLACENTA 254 the entire organ is affected, and the whole uterus so firmly closed that nothing can enter it, even under anaesthesia. ReliaVjle observers have stated that sometimes the cervix itself becomes closed by spasmodic contraction; but this appears to be rare, and is primd facie improbable. More commonly a transverse zone is alone affected; the placenta lies above it, and may be separ- ated by the normal process of retraction in the uterus above the zone of spasm. Its expulsion is, however, prevented by the narrowing of the canal, and free bleeding consequently occurs. The condition is not usually recognised by ab- dominal examination, but on passing the fingers through the cervix they encounter the obstruc- tion formed by the narrowed part of the uterine cavity. Sometimes a portion of the placenta is caught in the constriction, and the cord can always be felt passing through it. Of the causes of this condition nothing is known. It is certainly not due, as was once supposed, to the exhibition of ergot during labour, for in most of the recorded cases no ergot had been previously given. Ahlfeld is probably right in regarding it as due to irrita- bility of the uterine muscle when more or less exhausted by labour, and he considers that too early and too vigorous attempts to express the placenta are the commonest exciting caxise. The treatment is to dilate the constriction and remove the placenta if the amount of bleeding is serious; if there is little or no bleeding the uterus may be allowed a few hours' rest, when the spasm will pass away, and the placenta will then probably be spon- taneously expelled. Usually the amount of bleeding is too great to allow of the expectant treatment being adopted. Even under anaes- thesia great difficulty may be experienced in dilating the constriction, and the removal of the placenta may have to be effected piecemeal, as only one or two fingers can be passed up to the fundus. Once the placenta is removed the uterus usually retracts firmly, and there is no more haemorrhage. IV. Retention in a Fibroid Uterus.—An in- teresting example of this rare condition has been recorded by Dr Haultain,i in which, after a miscarriage, the placenta was retained, and all attempts to i-emove it failed owing to the insuperable obstacle offei-ed by a fibroid in the lower uterine segment. It had to be left, and the patient died of septicfemia from placental decomposition. Retention of Fragments of Placenta or Membrane.—If a small portion only of a placenta is morbidly adherent, while the attach- ments of the remainder are healthy, the non- adherent part may be expelled by the uterine contractions, leaving the adherent part in situ. Occasionally the entire chorion may be thus ^ Allbutt and Playfair, System of Gyncecology, p. 592. left in the uterus, being torn off round the placental margin; the amnion generally goes with the placenta, as it is much tougher than the chorion, and less firmly united to that membrane than to the umbilical cord. Por- tions of the chorion may be thus retained. The decidua is so thin and friable that it is probably seldom expelled entire, but its re- tention is of no importance. Outlying portions of placental tissue {placenta succenturiata) when present are, of course, often retained either by morbid adhesion or simple non-detachment. Diagnosis.—If the portion of retained pla- centa or membrane be not very large, and if in addition uterine contraction and retraction are efficient, there may be no immediate haemor- rhage, and the fact of their retention may then be overlooked. Later on, in the puerperium more or less severe secondary haemorrhage will occur during their separation. A minute ex- amination of the whole afterbirth ought always to reveal the occurrence of retention of frag- ments ; this is comparatively easily seen in the case of a portion of the placenta, but not so easy if a succenturiate placenta or a piece of chorion be retained. Excessive bleeding from a contracted uterus after the delivery of the afterbirth depends either upon lacerations or upon retention of fragments, but only by pass- ing the fingers into the uterus can it be definitely settled that there are retained portions present. Treatment.—Retained placental fragments must always be sought for at once and removed ; in the case of the chorion, the subsequent risks —secondary haemorrhage and decomposition of lochia—are much less. Small fragments of chorion may therefore be allowed to remain ; but if a piece of any considerable size be retained, it should be sought for and removed in like manner. B. Retention in the Cervix or Vagina ; Retention of a Detached Placenta. — This condition is very frequent, and of comparatively little importance, as it does not occasion much haemorrhage. It may be due to deficiency of the expulsive forces, when expression suffices to deliver it; or it may be due to morbid adhesion of the membranes (Fig. 56), when digital re- moval is called for. The fact that the placenta is not retained in the uterus may be noticed by observing the size and position of the uterine body. When the placenta leaves it an obvious diminution occurs in its size ; while, as Varnier has pointed out, the level of the fundus often rises a little when the placenta lies below it, thus preventing the uterus from sinking into the pelvis (see Figs, on pp. 167, 168). If the condition be not recognised on abdominal ex- amination, the finger passed into the vagina will at once feel the placenta bulging through the external os, or perhaps lying free in the vaginal canal.