LABOUR, OPERATIONS—INDUCTION OF PREMATURE LABOUR 278 may be gathered from Heyman's^ report of 107 cases, out of which 64'3 per cent of the children were born alive. There was no maternal mor- tality traceable to the operation, though the mothers died in certain cases in which the operation was undertaken owing to serious maternal disease. Leopold's average time for completing labour by this method is 80 hours 16 minutes. Briggs's average is less than half this time when three or four bougies are intro- duced together; and when the bougie is used, his modification should always be preferred to the original method. In 1892, Pelzer introduced a method of in- ducing labour by injecting one or two ounces of glycerine through the cervix into the lower uterine segment between the membranes and the uterine wall. The glycerine is said to act in three ways: (1) as a chemical irritant; (2) by removing some of the liquor amnii by osmosis ; and (3) by separating the membranes from that portion of the uterine wall surrounding the os internum.2 This method has been said to be not only ineffective but dangerous, A'arious in- conveniences having followed its employment, namely, slow pulse, high temperature, cyanosis, hsemoglobinuria, and albuminuria. Out of thirty- five cases collected by Helme this method failed to bring on labour in only two instances, and in these two cases one patient was moribund when the glycerine was injected, while the other had already had three bougies in her uterus for several days. Four of the women died, two from eclampsia, and two from nephritis which was known to be pre-existent. Under certain circumstances glycerine is doubtless of use in favouring dilatation, but it is doubtful whether, unaided, it affords a good method of inducing labour. During the last few years very few cases have been reported in which it was used. Spinelli ^ has recently advocated another method of employing glycerine for this purpose. He packs in between the membranes and the uterine wall a strand of gauze soaked in ichthyol and glycerine. Very many years ago Huter caused uterine con- tractions by distending the vagina with a bladder smeared with oil of hyoscyamus, and the first india-rubber bags used in obstetric practice were employed in the same way. The action of a bag placed in the vagina being found to be extremely uncertain, fiddle-shaped bags, like those of Barnes, were devised in order that part of the bag might be introduced through the cervix, and might so exert direct dilating force upon the OS uteri. These elastic, fiddle-shaped, hydrostatic dilators may be used for the induction of labour 1 Archiv fur Oyn., Band lix. Heft 2, 1899. ^ The practice of separating the membranes freely by copious injections of water through the cervix was found to be very dangerous, owing to the risk of producing air embolism, and has accordingly fallen into disuse. 3 Archiv Ital. di Gin., December 31, 1898. after preliminary dilatation of the cervix sufficient to admit of their introduction. - u The conical bag designed by Champetier de Ribes 1 has been gaining favour during the last twelve years. It is conical in shape, the tube through which it is distended being attached at the apex, and it has a pelvic curve. Being made of strong silk covered with india-rubber, it is practically inelastic and, when filled with water, preserves its conical form in spite of considerable pressure. When the os has been dilated enough to admit two fingers the folded bag is passed upwards until the whole of its conical portion lies within the uterus. When almost filled with water it fits into the lower uterine segment, and, acting as a large foreign body, it sets up uterine contractions, as a rule, within three or four hours. The bag then acts as a fluid wedge, much as the "fore-waters" do in normal labour, and transmits to the cervix and lower uterine segment the force of the uterine contractions.''^ If these are weak or absent, the attendant may add to or replace them by pulling gently upon the stalk of the bag from time to time. The base of the cone is approximately of the same diameter as a foetal head, so that when the os is large enough to allow of the bag slipping through it into the vagina, dilatation may be considered to be complete, and delivery may be rapidly ended if necessary. The main defect of Cham- petier de Ribes' bag lies in the fact that, owing to its large bulk, it is liable to displace the head, and thus tends to favour the causation of malpresentations and untoward positions of the head. The instrument has probably been used more frequently in cases of htemorrhage and in dry labours than for inducing labour, the purpose for which it was designed. It is, however, most useful in cases in which induction must be rapidly performed, and when simpler means have failed to produce the desired effect. Horrocks employs for induction small bags of very thin india-rubber, which closely resemble toy balloons. One of these is tied over the end of a No. 6 cathetei', which is then passed about two inches through the cervix so that the bag lies within the uterus. It is then filled with fluid by means of a syringe connected with the catheter by a short rubber tube. The bag acts as a foreign body, and after a time sets up uterine contractions ; but this result may be delayed for several days. When once estabhshed the pains may continue naturally, or it may be necessary to maintain them by the use of Barnes' or de Ribes' bags. These small rubber balloons afford a very perfect method of gradually and slowly inducing labour, which in time may prove superior to the use of the bougie or repeated manual dilatation. They do not in any way ' Annales de gynicologie et d'obstetrique, 1888. - It follows that this bag is seen to the greatest ad- vantage when the membranes have been ruptured and the waters lost.