242 LABOUR, FAULTS IN THE PASSENGER Child (a) Death of the child has long been associated in the minds of obstetricians with prolonged labour, and has often been mentioned as a cause of delay—the effect being mistaken for the cause. There are, however, certain carefully recorded cases ^ in which post-mortem rigidity has been present in the liody of a dead child during labour, and has for some time prevented that undoing of the f«tal attitude, that un- flexing of the trunk and limbs of the child, which is an essential part of the mechanism of labour. The conditions under which post-mortem rigidity occurs in utero have not been sufhciently observed to permit of any state- ment as to the time and rate of onset, the duration or the termination of the condition. Its diagnosis is practically impossible, except by direct palpation. The treatment, were a diagnosis made, would be expectant, opium and other sedatives being employed to check the progress of labour and give time for relaxation of the foetal body to occur. Decomposition of the dead foetus in utero sometimes causes various parts of its body to become distended with gas to such an extent as to impede delivery. This condition, which is known as emphysema of the foetus, is recognised without difficulty by touch, the distended tissues yielding with a " crackling " feel, under pressure by the finger. The abdomen and thorax should be punctured, and the skin may be freely incised in accessible places in order to allow the escape of the gas. Delivery under these circumstances must be followed by energetic antiseptic measures. (b) Large Size of the Child.—Though it is not one child in a thousand that weighs over twelve pounds at birth, there is no more common cause of delay during labour than relative largeness of the foetal head, for cases are constantly met with in which the head is a trifle larger, while the pelvis is a trifle smaller than the average. In these cases, the second stage is prolonged, considerable time being demanded for the process of moulding, by which alone the passage of the head through the bony pelvis is rendered possible. Further delay is caused by the need for extra dilatation of the vaginal orifice, and tears of the perineum frequently occur. Though the head is usually the source of difficulty in the delivery of large children, broad shoulders sometimes become impacted in the pelvis, and frequently cause or increase perineal tears. Further, in pelvic presentations, the breech of a large child is liable to become impacted in the maternal passages. It is thus clear that the delivery of large children demands consider- able care. Prolonged gestation is doubtless a common cause of excessive size of the foetus. ' Ballantyne, Edin. Obstet. Trails., 1894-95, It is stated that pregnancy is prolonged over 300 days in at least 6 per cent of women. We may say, then, that the size of the child depends in part upon its age at the time of birth. The sex of the child must also be considered, as male children are well known to be slightly larger than females. Advanced age of one or both parents is said to favour large size of the child, but this may be simply because it tends to cause prolongation of pregnancy. Large size of one or both parents also conduces to overgrowth of the foetus. It is certain that in many in- stances the size of the children increases in successive pregnancies. This is usually noticed in women with rather small pelves whose earlier children have been born spontaneously, forceps extraction, and occasionally craniotomy, being necessary at their subsequent confinements. It must be remembered that in the passage of a large head through an ordinary pelvis, the dis- proportion is exactly the same in nature as that which obstructs the passage of a normal head through a generally contracted pelvis (see Justo- minor Pelvis, p. 214). The modifications in mechanism and in treatment are accordingly the same in both conditions. The head cannot enter the brim with the vertex presenting, and therefore becomes more flexed than usual, the presenting part thus being behind the vertex. In extreme cases the presentation is, in fact, " occipital." This is important in diagnosis and in management; for unusual flexion of the head at the beginning of labour—presentation of a part behind the vertex—is a good and sufficient physical sign that the head is too large for the pelvis. Again, this mechanism of extra flexion implies that there is no room to spare in the sides of the pelvis ; in other words, that the case is not one of flat pelvis. This at once contraindicates turning for exactly the same reasons which forbid version in justo-minor pelvis. As to management. Hirst goes so far as to say that no woman should be allowed to exceed the normal duration of pregnancy (280 days) by more than a fortnight. Other authors advise that in cases where trouble from this cause has occurred in previous labours the patient should be examined periodically from about a month before full time, and that when it becomes difficult to make the head enter the pelvis by abdominal pressure labour should be induced (see "Labour, Operations"). Largeness of the head, however, is as a rule diagnosed only when miusual flexion of the head is discovered early in labour. The treatment consists in the appli- cation of the forceps as soon after the cervix is completely dilated as the operator deems con- sistent with the safety of the perineum. The advocates of symphysiotomy consider large size of the head to be a good indication for this operation, and unless it is certain that the child is dead, the symphysis should always be divided