137 KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF on both lateral aspects, until its reflection on to the cartilaginous surface of the femur is approached. The ligamentum patellae is divided, and the lower limbs of the capsule and synovial membrane are similarly dissected off the tibia from below upwards until the articular surface is reached. Having divided the lateral ligaments and flexed the joint, the capsule, synovial membrane, patella, ligamentum patellae, infrapatellar pad of fat, and the semilunar cartilages, are removed in one tumour-like mass. The posterior recess of the joint is then dis- played by detaching the crucial ligaments, and by flexing the joint until the femur and tibia are nearly parallel with one another. Not only must the posterior part of the capsule and synovial membrane be removed, bvit also any disease in the popliteal bursa. The sharp spoon is not so reliable as the scissors or knife. The risk of wounding the popliteal artery during this step of the operations is probably exagger- ated. Iodoform powder is rubbed into the raw surfaces and recesses of the wound. Having cleared the ends of the bones, the articular surfaces are removed by means of the saw; skill is required in order to do this, so as to ensure that the sawn surfaces will be capable of being accurately applied to each other in the extended position of the limb. The usual pro- cedure is to saw the bones at right angles to the long axis of the limb, i.e. parallel to their articular surfaces, and to employ for this purpose an ordinary amputation saw. If the sawn surfaces fit accurately they are merely placed in contact, otherwise they may be re- tained in apposition by means of two long steel pins introduced through the skin beyond the excision wound. The pins should not be driven home until the limb is placed in the splint in the extended position. Kocher makes with a narrow butcher's saw a convex section of the femur, and a concave section of the tibia. This method of sawing the femur in the case of growing limbs has the advantage of being least likely to damage the epiphysial cartilage, but it is a little more difficult to carry out successfully. Whatever method is employed for sawing the bones, if t\iberculous foci are discovered on the sawn sections, they should be cleared out with the gouge in preference to taking away another slice of the bone. The tourniquet is removed and the blood-vessels are ligatured. The wound is closed, and drainage is provided for by a rubber tube brought through an opening in the skin at the outer side. The limb is maintained in a box or simple posterior (Watson) splint until the woimd is soundly healed ; plaster-of- Paris is then applied, and the patient allowed to go about on crutches. Three months after the operation the plaster case may be exchanged for a Thomas splint, which should be worn for six months or a year. Mortality of Excision.—Apart from the risks attending any major operation, the chief causes of death following excision of the knee are phthisis pulmonalis and general tuberculosis. Results of Excision.—In the majority of cases the disease is permanently cured, and there is rigid ankylosis at the tibio-femoral junction. The more rigid the ankylosis the more useful is the limb. Very slight flexion, amounting to 5° or 10°, is the best attitude for walking. The shortening directly due to the operation varies with the amount of bone removed; it varies from ^ to 2 inches, and it is easily compensated for by depressing the pelvis on the same side, or by thickening the sole of the boot. If shortening already existed before the operation, the combined shortening may necessitate the use of a high boot. When excision has been performed in a limb which is still growing, and the epiphysial cartilages are removed, the shortening may amount to as much as 6 inches. A very obstinate form of flexion is sometimes observed in young subjects as a result of re- moving the posterior two-thirds of the epiphysial cartilage of the femur. The anterior portion which is left continues to develop bone, and the original plane of section no longer remains at a right angle to the axis of the limb. In order to correct it a wedge-shaped portion of bone must be removed. In fibrous ankylosis, unless it is very close and strong, a Thomas splint or other form of apparatus must be worn until the desired stability is acquired. The relapse of tuberculous disease in the shape of abscesses and sinuses is to be treated on the usual lines. Amputation is reserved for severe and usually neglected cases—where the disease extensively involves the bones and is rapidly advancing with evidences of suppuration, where there are septic sinuses (especially after the failure of excision to secure a useful limb), and where the lungs and other internal organs are seriously implicated. It is often remarkable how much the lung disease may improve after the re- moval of suppurating tuberculous disease of the knee. The amputation should be performed well above the limits of the infected tissues, whether synovial membrane or cellular tissue. In view of the unfavourable nature of the cases submitted to amputation it is not sur- prising that the mortality is a high one, especially if we include those cases which die some time after the operation from phthisis or general tuberculosis. Treatment of Deformities resulting from Ante- cedent Disease of the Knee.—-We are here con- cerned with cases in which the disease has been recovered from, but the joint has been allowed to assume the flexed position, with or without backward displacement of the tibia. When the deformity is of the nature of a contracture, in which the articular surfaces are