LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 226 instead of being pressed up and out, so as to widen the pelvis. But the deformity is due to rickets in early life ; osteomalacia is not present. The deformity not being so great as in osteo- malacia, the iliac crests are not bent, but are splayed out as in the flat, rickety pelvis. The explanation of the production of this shape of pelvis in a few exceptional cases of rickets is, that it is due to very bad rickets, making the bones very soft, and preventing the child from standing or walking. The consequence is, that the upward and outward pressure of the femora, which is exerted all the time that the patient is standing or walking, and which in ordinary rickets pushes the acetabula up and out, widening the pelvis, is in these bad cases absent. But whenever the patient lies on her side the pressure on the trochanter drives in the head of the femur, and whenever she moves her thighs the muscles passing from the pelvis to the trochanter pull in the head of the femur. Hence the aceta- bula become crumpled in. The deformity becomes not extreme, because by the time the patient is able to walk the disease is cured, and the bones have got hard, and then they yield not further to the upward pressure of the femora. In conformity with this view is the fact, that one of the few possessors of pelves of this kind whose history is known (a case described by Naegele) did not attempt to walk till she was seven years old. Obstetrically these cases resemble the osteo- malacic pelvis, except that as the bones are hard it is not possible to force them apart with the hand. Spondylolisthesis. — This is the pelvic de- formity produced by the slipping forward of the Fig. 41.—a lumbar vertebra showing the defect in ossification upon which spondylolisthesis depends. last lumbar vertebra upon the sacrum. It is produced by the coincidence of two conditions : (1) a malformation; (2) a strain. The mal- formation consists in defective ossification of the last lumbar vertebra, so that between the upper and lower articular processes there is a gap in the bony ring filled with cartilage or fibrous tissue. This bony defect is common, but spondylolisthesis is rare. The bony defect, therefore, is not by itself capable of producing the deformity; but it weakens the bony ring and thus makes it yield to strain. The strain may be gradual, as from long-continued heavy labour ; or sudden, as from accidental violence. When from either cause the body of the last lumbar vertebra is driven down, the bony ring gives way at this weak spot; the body of the vertebra, with its upper articular processes, slips forward; the inferior articular processes remain in their place. One case has been described in which it was due to fracture, or rather separation, of the pedicles of lumbar vertebrae in a girl of sixteen. But, obviously, a defect which is common is more likely to be a Fig. 42.—Spondylolisthesis. (After Kilian.) usual cause of the disease than a defect which is rare. It has been supposed that the de- formity may arise from fracture of a properly ossified vertebra ; but this has not been demon- strated, and it is obvious that a bone with the defect mentioned above is more likely to give way than a well-ossified one. It has been said also to be due to fracture of the sacral articular processes, letting the whole of the last lumbar vertebra slide forwards; but this has not been proved. When the dislocation has once occurred, secondary changes in the bones concerned come about: (a) the canal of the last lumbar vertebra is enlarged from before backwards; [b) the body of the vertebra, in its new position, is not supported in front, and hence it becomes bent, its anterior part forming an angle, opening downwards, with its posterior; (c) the hinder part of the body of the vertebra is compressed Ijetween the fourth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, so that it becomes the shape of a blunt wedge, the base of the wedge being in front; {d) the slipping forward of the last lumbar vertebra involves strain on, and damage to, the intervertebral substance between it and the first sacral vertebra; (e) the result is the growth of bone in the intervertebral substance, and between the displaced vertebra and the last sacral vertebra. This ossification tends to pre- vent further dislocation, and is therefore a con- servative change. The body weight, transmitted through the spine, instead of falling on the top of the sacrum, falls on its front edge, and thus