KIDNEY 112 Symptomatology.—A. Symptoms of Primary Renal Tuberculosis.—In a small proportion of cases the disease commences and progresses to the entire destruction of the gland, without evoking any marked symptoms; but this is rare, and there is usually certain pronounced symptoms which may lead one to suspect primary renal tuberculosis. These symptoms are renal pain coexisting with pale, feebly acid or neutral murky virine of low specific gravity, and occasional hsematurial attacks. There may not be, and frequently is not, at first that anaemia, that rapid emaciation, and that elevated evening temperature, upon which physicians place so much reliance. These symptoms appear later in the disease, it is true, but not at first, imless the renal tubercle has become affected by septicity from the bladder; or as some writers assert, unless the parenchyma of the gland is much destroyed without any implication of the pelvic mucous membrane. The cases range themselves in two distinct classes: (a) those with fixed renal pain; [b) those with renal colic. (<x) Tuberculous Kidney evoTcing fixed Renal Pain and early Pyuria.—This class is much more commonly met with (80 per cent). The symptoms seem to depend on the destruction of the pelvic mucous membrane and renal structure, the urine and debris escaping freely along the open channel of the ureter. Although there may be some thickening of the walls of this tube from ureteritis, yet the channel is wide enough to carry off the secretion without exciting renal colic as a general rule, though occasionally a clump of mucus or debris may be caught, and may give rise to a sharp ureteric twinge or even a colic. The pain is at first slight, intermittent, disappearing for weeks, but reappearing in a more severe form until it becomes constant. It is chiefly felt behind, over the lower ribs; it is coverable with the palm of the hand (not the thumb, as so often appears to be the case in oxalate of lime stone). After a few months the patient becomes liable to transient attacks of frequency of micturition of greater or less severity, and rneatal pain after the act. These attacks will vary in duration, last from a few hours to a few days. They may be due to the caustic action of the urine or to transient waves of descending pyelitis: probably the former, for it is conceivable that now and again ptomaines from the ulceration or other chemical substances produced by the disintegration of the tuberculous processes are added to the secretion which, passing over the sensitive neck of the bladder^ evoke temporary dysuria. As months pass the renal pain ceases, but coincident with its subsidence appear those symptoms which are characteristic of the disease having effected a permanent lodgment in the bladder : habitual frequency of micturi- tion, diurnal or nocturnal; glans or meatal pain after the act, and occasional slight hsemorrhages. When the bladder has become definitely ulcerated there is a " posture" symptom of some value which may be present in women. When the ureteric orifice has become ulcerated the patient cannot sleep on that side at night, for this position aggravates the irritability of the bladder. The patient, therefore, sleeps on the side opposite to that of the diseased ureter. This brief sketch delineates the usual course in primary renal tubercle, but it must be remembered that exceptionally the disease in the kidney is more or less "latent," and it is only when the bladder becomes affected by descending changes that any symptoms appear. Moreover, these symptoms are referable to the bladder, and the disease is supposed to be primary there because the symptoms first complained of can be located there. The cystoscope alone detects these latent cases, for by its means the ureteric orifice of the diseased kidney is shown to be ulcerated, or patulous, or displaced by tuberculous changes. (J)) Tuberculosis Kidney evoking Renal Colic.— Primary tubercle of the pelvis of the kidney may, in the minority of cases (20 per cent), produce a renal colic almost exactly like that of renal stone, and this almost from the onset of the disease. The first symptom may be a renal colic, and this may continue on and off until the kidney has given up secreting urine. The colic is due to the narrowing of the pelvic orifice of the ureter and to thickening of the ureteric wall. It is surprising how thick the ureler can become ; some are the thickness and solidity of thumbs or forefingers, and on section a tiny circle represents all that is left of the ureteric channel. I venture to suggest that in such cases there is an inherited tendency to fibroid phthisis. I believe that when such kidneys are shut off early by occlusion of the ureter, the lymphatic trunks of the channel become plugged and the disease is walled in. Anyway the patients who have early occlusion seem to have a longer lease of life and to be the most favourable for cure by nephrectomy. Othbb Symptoms op Primary Renal Tuberculosis.—(a) Formation of Tumour.— It is generally accepted that primary renal tuberculosis rapidly transforms the kidney, and so enlarges it as to cause a definite tumour to be formed. This is inaccurate. It does enlarge it, but as often as not no renal tumour can be felt in men; and in women, who are of laxer habit, the renal swelling can only be discovered with difficulty. When a renal tumour is found it indicates great destruction of the kidney, either by progressive infiltration, or by pelvic dilatation from a narrowed orifice. The practitioner, however, has to decide as to whether the kidney which he finds enlarged is a tuberculous kidney or one compensatorily