INJURIES OF 150 KNEE-JOINT, knee-joint in a child. Its rarity is probably due to the fact that the ligamentum patella, internal lateral ligament, and semimembrano- sus tendon are inserted partly into epiphyses and partly into diaphyses, thus strengthening their relations. Complete separation of upper epiphysis is usually the result of a violent wrench of the leg, and is most liable to occur between twelve and sixteen years of age. Signs are abnormal mobility, cartilaginous crepitus, and displacement, which is slight and consists of overriding of the epiphysis, usually forward, but occasionally inward and outward. Effusion into the knee-joint almost invariably occurs. Diagnosis.—Free movement of joint, which is present in separation of epiphysis, serves to dis- tinguish it from dislocation of the knee, which, moreover, hardly ever occurs in childhood. Mobility at epiphysial level below the articula- tion is conclusive. When little or no displace- ment exists, it may be mistaken for a sprain. Prognosis.—Good union, usually osseous, follows. Ankylosis from synovitis or suppura- tion in the knee-joint. Deformity may occur from incomplete or non-reduction. Premature arrest of growth as a result of this injury is rare; when it does occur the fibula is bowed out. Treatment.—Any displacement present should be remedied by flexing the knee and manipula- tion, under an anaesthetic. When there has been little or no displacement, the limb may be put up in plaster-of-Paris at once, or lateral and posterior splints followed by plaster after two or three weeks. Where much displacement has existed, the better position is probably that of flexion on a Maclntyre or Hodgen splint. Primary amputation is only necessary when the injviry is compoiuid and accompanied by severe laceration of the soft parts. Secondary am- putation may be called for by gangrene or suppiiration in the joint. Separation op Tubercle of Tibia.—The ei^iphysis includes the tubercle of the tibia, which is frequently developed from a separate centre, and may be torn off by a violent con- traction of the quadriceps. Separation of the tubercle occurs when springing from the ground, as in vaulting; the commonest time of life is between sixteen and twenty years. It may be mistaken for fracture of the iiatella. The fragment is drawn up by the quadriceps, and is freely movable in all directions. Active extension is impossible. Blood may be effused into the knee-joint; the fragment should be fixed in position by a steel peg ; good union and use of limb result. Separation of the Upper Epiphysis of the Fibula usually takes place before its union with the diaphysis, and between the ages of seven and fourteen, but it may occur after. Frequently its detachment accompanies that of the upper tibial epiphysis. This injury may result from indirect violence, such as forcible contraction of the biceps while the knee is in a flexed position, or from direct violence., it having occurred while a case of knock-knee was being sti-aightened. The prominent symptom is pain on pressure over the head of the fibula. The fragment, which is readily movable, can be felt on the outer side of the knee-joint, being displaced iipwards by the biceps, which is inserted into it. The external popliteal nerve is liable to injury, giving rise to pain along its distribution, and partial or complete paralysis of the peronei and extensor muscles. The diagnosis depends chiefly on the age of the patient and the extreme mobility of the fragment. There may, however, be difficulty in distinguishing it from a sprain, especially if severe bruising be present, in which case a skiagram would be of assistance. The treatment consists in the reduction of any displacement, and putting up the limb in the flexed position, to relax the traction of the biceps on the fragment. Massage of the joint should be commenced on the day following the injury, and passive movements in seven to fourteen days. Dislocations Dislocations of the Knee-Joint are of very rare occurrence, and when met with are due to extreme violence. Are found in machinery accidents, where the leg has been violently twisted or wrenched, the thigh often being more or less fixed; also when men have fallen from a height. The varieties of comjdete dislocation are— forwards., occurring during hyperextension of the leg, the head of the tibia lying in front of the condyles and drawn upwards sometimes as much as four inches; hacTtwards, usually due to violence to front of leg or back of thigh, the head of the tibia resting behind the condyles. In both these forms the soft parts are exten- sively torn. Incomplete dislocations are not likely to occur, and may be forwards, backwards, later- ally, or oblique. In this group the articular surfaces are still partly in contact, and there is less destruction of soft structures. Dislocation may occur laterally, combined with rotation of the leg on its long axis, usually outward. The soft parts suffer very severely in complete dislocations, the lateral and crucial ligaments being extensively torn especially in the anterior and posterior varieties. The hamstring muscles may be torn across, and injury or rupture of the popliteal vessels and nerves may lead to gangrene of the leg. The dislocation is fre- quently compound.