28 INVALID FEEDING tins, and bake in a brisk oven for about ten minutes. The cakes are done when they will turn out of the tins quite easily. This will make about five cakes the size of buns. The cakes can be cut into slices, buttered, and toasted. Even more palatable cakes can be made with an equal mixture of bran and almond flour. The bran reduces the excessive richness of the almond flour and gives a pleasant flavour. Bran Bread ^ lb. bran (prepared). 2 oz. almond flour. 3 oz. butter. 6 eggs. J pint milk. 2 tea-spoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda. 1 tea-spoonful of tartaric acid. Place the butter in a basin and beat it to a cream ; then add the almonds and well beat, add the eggs one at a time. Partly mix in the bran before adding the milk. Well mix the whole together, and place it in a well-buttered tin and bake for an hour in moderate oven. Gluten Bi-ead 1 lb. gluten flour. \ lb. of prepared bran. 1 oz. yeast. 1 oz. ground almonds. 2 eggs. Pinch of salt. Make a sponge as for ordinary bread and set it to rise. This will take about three-quarters of an hour. Then bake. The addition of a little ground almonds and two eggs is an improvement. There are a few forbidden articles of food which, when prepared specially, are quite allow- able to this class of patient:— Sponge cakes, made from almond flour and sweetened with glycerine, are excellent. Gluten macaroni. Gluten vermicelli. Cocoa, when specially prepared. Marmalade, made with gelatine, glycerine, and orange rind ; it is an attractive-looking com- pound, and a great boon to the diabetic's breakfast table. The flavour is somewhat peculiar, due to sweetness from glycerine. Chocolate, specially prepared, makes an excellent sweetmeat, and also a very good cup of chocolate. It can be bought un- sweetened, and flavoured with vanilla or sweetened with saccharine. Glycerine jujubes can also be procured. Menvs—Firxf Day Breakfast Tea and ci'eam. Whiting fried in butter. Squeeze lemon juice when served. Savoury omelet. Gluten toast. Brown diabetic bread. Butter. Lnnch Home-made lemonade sweetened with sac- charine. Vegetable marrow, stuffed. Cold ham. Cream cheese. Almond and bran biscuits. Gluten rolls. Dinner Clear soup with mixed vegetables. Steamed halibut. Slices of lemon. Fillet of beef and cauliflower. Green apples stewed, sweetened with sac- charine. Cream. Whipped jelly. Cheese. Biscuits (made with gluten flour). Pancakes (made with gluten flour, milk, eggs, sweetened with glycerine). Stuffed Vegetable Marroiv.—Small marrows make an excellent dish, boiled and stuff'ed with the stuffing of mushroom forcemeat. The marrow should be first peeled very slightly ; then cut long-way into three slices, the pips removed, and the interior filled with the forcemeat. The forcemeat should be made hot before it is placed in the marrow ; if not, the marrow will be cooked before the stuffing is heated through. The marrow should be placed in boiling water and boiled imtil tender; this takes about twenty minutes to half an hour. Mushroom Forcemeat 1 lb. mushrooms. ^ tea-spoonful lemon juice. Two hard-boiled eggs. I oz. butter. The mushrooms after being cleaned should be chopped and fried in the butter; lemon juice should be added before they are chopped in order to preserve the colour. Add two hard- boiled eggs to the mixture, and rub the whole through a wire sieve while hot. When hot this mixture is moist, but on standing gets hard. Savoury Omelet Parsley, I tea-spoonful chopped. Eggs, 3. Butter, 2 oz. Herbs, savoury ) Pepper ■ for flavouring. Salt I Melt the butter in a frying-pan; beat up the eggs thoroughly ; add a little pepper and salt, parsley and herb ; pour the beaten-up eggs into the frying-pan as soon as the butter begins to frizzle, and with a table-spoon keep scraping the bottom of the frying-pan in every part. Go on scraping until two-thirds of the mixture have become lumpy. Now lift the pan a little off' the fire, push the omelet into half the frying-pan. When nearly set, hold the pan in a slanting direction in front of the fire ; and, as soon as set, slide the omelet