36 IRIDIN It has a bitter acrid taste, and possesses cathartic and diuretic properties. Dose—1-5 grs. in pill. It is a cholagogue, and has the advantage that it rarely gripes. It may be given in combina- tion with other purgatives. IridO-ChoroiditiS. — Inflammation of the iris and choroid; uveitis. See Choroid, Diseases of [Irido-choroiditis or Uveitis). IridOCinCSiS. — The movement of con- traction or expansion of the iris. See Physio- logy, Senses {Vision, Mechanism, Iris). IridO-CyclitiS. — Inflammation of the iris and ciliary body. See Cataract {Operation, After-Results); Gout {Irregular, Eye Symptoms). IridodesiS.—An operation for lengthening the pupil or for making an artificial pupil (for optical purposes). lridodia.lysiS. — Separation of the iris from adhesions or from its attachments. See Eyeball, Injuries of {Detachment); Iris and Ciliary Body {Injuries). IridodonesiS.—Tremulousness or quiv- ering of the iris, due to partial dislocation of the crystalline lens. See Eyeball, Injuries of {Dislocation of the Lens) \ Iris and Ciliary Body {Anatomy, Iridodonesis); Lens, Crys- talline {Displacements). IridoparesiS.—Partial paralysis of the iris. Iridopleg'ia.. — Paralysis of the iris; failure of the iris to respond to the action of light or to the effort of accommodation. See Iris and Ciliary Body {Injuries). IridoptOSiS. — Prolapse of the iris {e.g. through a wound of the cornea). Iridotomy.—Incision into the iris (e.g. for the making of an artificial pupil). See Iris and Ciliary Body {Operations). Iris and Ciliary Body. Anatomy ....... 36 Physiology 38 Congenital Abnormalities . . .39 Inflammatory Affections . . . 40 Iritis ...... 40 Cyclitis ...... 40 Treatment . . . . . .42 Operations on the Iris . . . .44 Iridectomy . . . . .44 Iridotomy . . . . . .46 Tumours of Iris and Ciliary Body . 46 Injuries to the Iris and Ciliary Body . 46 See also Accommodation ; Cheek, Fissure of ; Eyeball, Injuries of {Anteversion and Retro- flexion of the Iris); Physiology, Senses (Vision); Pupil. Anatomy.—The iris is the anterior part of the tunica vasculosa or uveal tract. It is the beautifully coloured and contractile membrane seen through the transparent cornea. By its circumference it is attached to the ligamentum pectinatum and ciliary body. Its anterior surface is free, whilst the posterior surface rests by its pupillary margin against the capsule of the lens; an absence of this support causes the iris to be tremulous—iridodonesis. It separates the anterior chamber, between it and the cornea, from the posterior chamber, between it and the lens. Slightly to the nasal side of its centre is the aperture of the pupil, whose diameter, when the iris is resting, varies from three to six millimetres. In thickness the iris is about 0'4 millimetre. Developmentally, the iris consists of two parts, the anterior portion being mesodermic, the posterior portion ectodermic, in origin. The mesodermic iris is composed of the following layers:— 1. The anterior endothelium, continuous with, and similar to, the lining cells of Descemet's membrane and the ligamentum pectinatum. It is broken here and there, where crypts in the succeeding layer exist. 2. The substantia propria, consisting of a stroma of connective tissue, containing branch- ing connective-tissue cells, many of which in dark eyes are pigmented. The anterior part of this layer is somewhat condensed and free from blood-vessels; this has been termed the anterior boundary layer. Within the stroma are found muscular fibres, blood-vessels, lymphatic tissue, and nerves. The muscular fibres are unstriped, and are arranged to form two definite tracts. One of these, the S2)hincter or constrictor jyuptillv, consists of a flattened ring around the edge of the pupil, nearer to the posterior than to the anterior surface of the iris. The second muscular tract, the dilator pupillce, is radially placed in the posterior part of the stroma, immediately anterior to the membrane of Bruch. It is composed of delicate spindle cells, which cannot be seen unless the iris is first bleached. 3. The posterior limiting membrane, or membrane of Bruch, a thin hyaline membrane, continuous with the lamina vitrea of the choroid and ciliary body. The ectodermic iris is composed of two layers of pigmented cells: (a) an anterior layer of spindle cells, the continuation of the pigmented layer of the retina; and {b) a posterior layer of polygonal cells, the representative of the remainder of the retina. These layers can only be seen in albino irides, or where the iris has been bleached. Together they form the uvea. The colour of the iris in dark eyes is due to pigment granules in the connective - tissue corpuscles of the substantia propria, especially those in the anterior portion. If pigment is absent from the stroma, and only present in the