LABOUR, OPERATIONS—SYMPHYSIOTOMY 299 ful suturing of the suprapubic incision, and the keeping together of the bodies of the pubic bones so as to secure the reunion of the sym- physis by mean of carefully adjusted bandages. Operators who have laid bare the pubic bones before dividing the symphysis have in some instances drilled the bones so as to allow of their being kept together by a couple of metallic sutures. For the most part it has been found sufficient to pass silk sutures through the apo- neurotic tissues, and after the soft parts of the wound have been duly sutured, to apply a bandage or keep the pelvis immobile in a ham- mock or in a special framework. Care must be observed in bringing together the separated bones that none of the soft parts that lie behind get caught between them, else damage may ensue to the bladder or urethra. Results.—In 1892 Spinelli gave a resume of twenty-four cases of symphysiotomy that had been carried out by Morisani and his colleagues in Naples during the preceding fifteen years, which showed that all the mothers had re- covered, and only one child had been lost. In four of the instances the operation was per- formed twice in the same patient. One woman had her second symphysiotomy fourteen months after her first. Another, who had been able to be out of bed by the eighth day, was operated on seventeen months later, and got up after the second symphysiotomy on the seventh day. These results, and the statistics of maternal and infantile mortality already quoted from Bar, give, however, an unduly favourable impression of the life-chances attendant on this mode of delivery. The danger to the life of the mother arises mainly from the double possibility of septic absorption through the long-exposed pubic wound, and through the bruised and fissured parts of the genital canal, but also from the haemorrhages, primary or secondary, from the wound or from the uterus. It has to be kept in view, moreover, that there may be protracted convalescence because of inflammations set up at the damaged joints, pubic or sacro-iliac, or among the areolar tissues of the pelvis, or in the bladder and urethra. Whilst, as a rule, the patient makes a complete recovery, she some- times suffers afterwards from impaired power of progression when the reunion of the joint-liga- ments has not been complete, from loss of reten- tive power in the bladder, or from prolapsus uteri. 7. Csesarean Section and its Modifications Csesarean section is an operation whereby an opening is made in the abdominal wall, and another in the uterus, through which the foetus is extracted. According to Pliny, it is named Ctesarean because the first of the Caesars was so extracted from his mother's womb as she was dying. Ac- cording to another version, it is named from the operation itself, cceso matris utero. This operation was at first made upon dead women at a more or less advanced state of pregnancy. It is attributed to Numa Pompilius, one of the first kings of Rome, who enacted {lex regia) that a pregnant woman deceased could not be interred until the foetus was extracted. This law remained in operation throughout all countries under Roman rule, and was approved by the Church, as well as adopted as a civil law by northern states, more especially Germany. For many years they dared not perform the operation upon a living woman, and in this way encouraged the performance of craniotomy, as the passage of the foetus through the pelvis in cases of deformity was impossible without mutilation. Levret and Mauriceau deny that this opera- tion was known to the ancients, but Dionis and Gardien refer to Pliny's Natural Histo7-y. Dr. Mansfield published a work " On the Antiquity of Gastrotomy and Hysterotomy on the Living " (Weber, das Alter des Banch- und Gehdrmutter- schnitts am Lehenden zn Braunschweig, 1824). He states that in an earlier work named Mischnajoth, written about 1400, there is this passage: " In a twin birth, neither the first child which by section of the belly is brought into the world, nor the one coming after, can attain the rights of heirship or priestly oflice." Nicolai Falconiis recorded a case at Venice in 1491. The case of Jacob Niefer, the Swiss peasant who performed it upon his own wife, is frequently quoted; but most authorities are agreed that it was much later before it was generally attempted upon the living woman. In fact, we need only refer to the action of Mauriceau in the case treated by himself and Chamberlen, where the operation was delayed till after death, although Mauriceau was in actual attendance for several days. He wrote : " The child has been dead to all appearance about four days, and I told all the assistants that she could not be delivered. They asked me to perform Csesarean section, which I did not wish to do, knowing that it was always certain death to the mother." This poor woman died with her infant in utero twenty-four hours afterwards. Rousset, physician to Catherine de Medicis, and contemporary of Pare, published a work upon the subject in 1581. This book was translated into Latin about ten years later. The author attempted to prove the possibility of saving the mother and child by means of this operation, but his views were opposed by Pare, Guillemeau, and others. In the middle of last century the subject divided operators into two sections, the Symphyseans and Csesareans, or those who advocated division of the symphysis pubis and those who advocated Csesarean section. It may be taken as a recognised rule in mid- wifery that no woman should be allowed to die undelivered without some attempt being made