INVALID FEEDING 25 Allow this to stand for a few minutes before cooking; this gives time for the flour in the batter to swell, and it will be lighter when baked. Bake in a quick oven from twelve to fifteen minutes imtil well risen and nicely browned. Serve at once, as the batter quickly falls. Fried Haddock and Tomatoes 1 dried haddock. 2 tomatoes. 1 small onion. 1 oz. butter. Pepper, salt, and parsley. Soak the fish for three hours; then skin it. Take out all the bones, and break up the fish into flakes. Slice the onion and tomatoes; chop up the parsley ; sprinkle with pepper and salt, and cook all in the butter until quite soft; then add the fish, and cook for ten minutes longer. Dish up in a border of boiled rice or mashed potatoes. Fish Souffle \ uncooked fish. J oz. butter. ^ oz. flour. 1 gill of fish stock or milk. 2 eggs. Pepper, salt, and lemon juice. First make a panada with the butter, flour, and fish. This is done by melting the butter in a small saucepan, adding the - flour, and mixing until it is smooth with a wooden spoon. Then pour on the milk or fish stock, and stir until the mixture is thick and free from lumps and leaves the sides of the pan quite clean. Scrape the fish down finely with a knife. Put the panada into a mortar with the fish, seasoning, and yolks of eggs. Pound well together and rub through a sieve. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir lightly into the fish mixture with an iron spoon. Pour into a greased basin which should be only half full. Cover with a greased paper. Steam for twenty minutes. When firm, lift it out and turn out on a hot plate. Curried Fish.—A very nice way of having fish is to curry it and serve it with a border of rice. The following ingredients should be put into the curry :— 1 lb. fish. 1 apple or stick of rhubarb. 2 oz. of fat or butter. 1 small onion. 1 table-spoonful of curry powder. 1 table-spoonful of flour. Salt and pepper. A tea-spoonful of lemon juice or vinegar. Scolloped Fish \ lb. cold cooked fish. Bread crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Pepper and salt. Fish stock or milk. Butter a scollop shell of fire-pi'oof china; sprinkle on it a layer of bread crumbs ; then a layer of fish broken iip into pieces ; some pepper, salt, and piece of butter. Cover this with more bread crumbs and bits of butter, and pour on a few drops of fish liquor, or milk. Bake ten minutes. Kedgeree Cold fish, \ lb., or dried haddock. Rice, boiled, \ lb. Butter, 1 oz. Egg, 1. Cayenne pepper; salt. Wash and boil the rice ; boil the egg very hard ; break the fish into pieces, and carefully remove all the bones ; take the egg, break off the shell, and cut the whites into small square pieces. When the boiled rice is dry, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the rice, then the fish, the chopped white of egg, cayenne pepper, and salt. Mix them well together, and serve on a hot dish, and sprinkle the yolk of egg over it. Macaroni and Fish \ lb. macaroni, well boiled. I lb. cold boiled fish. Mix the macaroni and the cold boiled fish well together with pepper and salt, half a pint of fish stock or chicken broth, and 1 ounce of butter. Put the mixture in a flat china dish, sprinkle bread crumbs and a little piece of butter on top; when the mixture is quite hot and brown it is ready to serve. Vegetables and Fruit.—Old people are very apt to give up vegetables owing to their supposed flatulent properties. This practice is serious, for if persisted in, some minor symptoms of scurvy not infrequently develop. Everything depends on the form in which the vegetables are administered and on the amount and nature of the ingredients of the meal. A small quantity of potato should be taken every day, and also a certain amount of well- cooked vegetable. Spinach, stewed lettuce, stewed or baked tomatoes; vegetable marrow and cucumber, boiled, stuffed, or stewed, or served with grated cheese; celery, sea-kale, asparagus, leeks, the flower of cauliflower, large Spanish onions, green peas when young and quite tender, and French beans are all suitable. Uncooked vegetables, as partaken of in salads, are not very satisfactory, and are very apt to cause flatulence; so also are cabbage, greens, Brussels sprouts, turnips, parsnips, and old carrots. For methods of preparation, see pp. 22, 23.