184 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM Mechanism.—After the head has been re- duced in its longest diameter by moulding at the brim it descends, probably by slight advances of the chin and occiput alternately ; but the amount of advance in neither case is enough to convert the presentation into a face or a vertex. Rotation is controlled entirely by the shape of the pelvis, for the fit is a very tight one indeed; so that whichever end of the head lies most to the front at the beginning comes round under the pubic arch eventually—it is usually the chin. The forehead, now elevated into a marked projection, descends to the vulva, and presents there. The head then flexes, rotating round some part of the face, usually about the gla- bella, which lies under the pubic arch. The vertex and occiput then glide over the perineum, and the head is freed by slight Fig. 33.—Relations of liead and pelvis in brow mechanisms. extension and the passage of the face and chin under the pubic arch. If the chin rotates backwards, delivery in ordinary cases is impossible; but if the head is very small and easily moulded, the chin will descend by extension and be born over the perinseum, the vertex afterwards passing under the pubic arch by flexion. Even in the more favourable mechanism the chances of delivery without perforation of the head are extremely small. Restitution will take place according to the rules already laid down. Moidding and Cajnit.—The head is distorted to a remarkable degree. The frontal bone is elevated, as already mentioned, and the head slopes down from this to the occiput very sharply. The diameters lengthened are the occipito-frontal and the suboccipito-frontal; those shortened are the cervico-bregmatic and the mento-vertical. General Character of Labour.—The mother runs great risks in these cases from the pro- longed labour and the necessary manipulations and use of instruments. The perineum is sure to be much lacerated. The nervous centres of the child may be greatly damaged by the considerable compression undergone by the head. (For Management, see p. 200.) PoDALic Lies These lies include presentation of the full breech ; of the incomplete breech ; of the knees, or a knee ; and of the feet, or a foot. Full Breech.—This is the commonest presenta- tion of the podalic end of the child, because the natural attitude of the child in utero is that with the thighs and knees flexed. This attitude makes the presentation consist of the buttocks and the feet, the legs being crossed and closely applied to the front of the body. Tncomjulete Breech {siege decomplete, mode des fesses, of French authors).—The legs are ex- tended on the thighs, so that the feet lie by the side of the child's head. It is pretty certain that this attitude is the one, in many cases, which has prevailed during pregnancy, for after the delivery of such children the limbs fre- quently fly back to the same place, even when they have been brought down into their natural attitude. In other instances the legs, after delivery, will remain as they are placed, and the extraordinary attitude must have been produced during labour by the hitching of the heels at the brim. Knee presentatio7is are very rare, and probably produced by manipulations in most cases. Footling presentations may be of one or of both feet. If only one present, the half breech (one buttock, and possibly one foot) remains to dilate the maternal passages. But if both feet come down the passages are very imperfectly dilated before the head, and this is a matter of great importance. The half breech attitude is, in all cases of podalic version, the one intention- ally produced. Causes of the Podalic Lie.—The proportion in which it occurs is about 1 in 40 of all cases. It is due to the absence or to the inversion of the causes which bring about the cephalic lie in such a very large proportion of labours. It occurs thus in cases of hydroceplialus, where the head-end of the child is larger than the breech, and is better accommodated in the fundal end of the uterus, and in cases where for some cause the specific gravity of the child is not decidedly near the anterior end of the child, as in p>remature children. In these last, too, the size of the child is not sufficient to make its lie in the uterus a matter of importance, and it is able to occupy either end of the uterus by its head indiff'erently. It occurs where there is excess of liquor amnii, or where the uterine walls are unduly lax, as they are sometimes in multi- parae. Twin pregnancy causes the adaptation of the foetuses to the cavity of the uterus to be different from that present in single cases. Con- tracted j^elves prevent the head from resting on the cup formed by the normal brim, and thus