LIVER, PHYSIOLOGY OF 429 tose, which is largely absorbed unchanged, is apparently not available for glycogen produc- tion. Not only is glycogen thus stored from the excess of carbohydrates taken in the food, but when large amounts of proteid are given, these are to a great extent split up and the non-nitrogenous part used in the formation of glycogen or of sugar. There is no evidence that fats are a source of sugar or glycogen in the liver, though recently attempts have been made to prove that they undergo such a change in phloridzin poisoning. The manner in which glycogen is reconverted to sugar must be considered as unsettled. Bernard and others have described the process as due to a zymin in the liver, but other physio- logists have been unable to accept this view, and believe that it is a process similar to the conversion of zymogen to zymin, and probably presided over hj the nerves to the liver. In support of the former view, the fact that an amylolytic zymin can be extracted from the liver after death has been dwelt upon, while the latter view is supported by the fact that many agents which do not influence the action of zymins, e.g. quinine and methyl-violet, inhibit the conversion of glycogen, and that this con- version is accelerated by stimulation of the coeliac plexus. 3. Regulation of Supply of Fat to the Body.— Although the liver is not upon the channel of the absorption of fat from the intestine, in many animals it has a very special power of storing any excess of fats in the food. This function is perhaps best seen in the cod, and it is well marked in the cat and in the human subject. On the other hand, in the salmon, and in the pig and ox, the power of storing fat in the liver is very limited. The fat thus stored is given out when the supply from without is withdrawn. While the ordinary fats vary with the supply, lecithin is a constant constituent of the liver-cells, even in prolonged starvation. It has been suggested that this lecithin is the first step in the synthesis of inorganic phosphorus to the complex nucleins of the cells, and that the fats of the liver may act by combining with this phosphorus to fix it and prevent its excretion. 4. Regulation of Supply of Proteids. — The researches of Nencki, Sieber, and others have shown that any excess of proteid in the food is, in part at least, broken down in the wall of the intestine, and that the nitrogenous part is sent to the liver as ammonia compounds. Von Schroeder has shown that such ammonia com- pounds, by a process of synthesis, are built into urea— 0 H\ II /H )N—C—N( h/ \h During starvation the proteids of the body are broken down, the non-nitrogenous part is converted to carbohydrates, and the nitrogenous moiety is excreted as urea. Where this break- ing down occurs is not known, whether in the muscles or in the liver, but the ultimate stage of the manufacture of urea takes place chiefly in the liver. This is shown by the fact that even partial destruction of the liver leads to an in- crease of the ammonia in the urine and a decrease of the urea. By what stages the formation of urea is brought about is not clearly known, but we do know that proteids readily break down into amido-acids and ammonia compounds, and that such compounds are changed into urea in the body. But urea is not the only foi-m in which the effete nitrogen of proteids is eliminated. In foetal animals allantoin takes its place, while in birds and reptiles uric acid, with traces of hypoxanthin and xanthin, are the chief waste products. These substances are diureides—that is, they consist of two more or less modified urea molecules linked by an organic acid. Al- lantoin has as its linking bond glycoxylic acid, while the others have acrylic acid. Uric acid is one of a series of bodies formed by modifying the nucleus which Fischer has termed the Purin Nucleus— Urea. Acrylic Urea. Acid. I C N— II \ I Oxy-purin is Hypoxanthin. Dioxy-purin is Xanthin. Trioxy-purin is Uric Acid. By the introduction of amidogen, Aminopurin or Adenin is formed, and from this, Amino- oxypurin or Guanin is produced. This series of diureides is formed when nucleins break down; xanthin, hypoxanthin, adenin, and guanin have thus been prepared, and although outside the body uric acid has not been so produced, the administration of nucleins leads to its increased formation within the body. In dogs allantoin is formed when nucleins or uric acid are given. There is no indication that the formation of uric acid in this way goes on in the liver, and, in fact, the observation that it may be produced by digesting leucocytes with blood in a stream of oxygen would tend to show that it goes on in other tissue. The uric acid and other purin bases so formed are all, in part at least, further changed to urea in the liver. But there is another mode of formation of uric acid, which occurs in birds and reptiles, and, at least under certain conditions, in man. In