90 KIDNEY than the proximal one. This communicates with a collecting tube through a short con- necting branch, and the collecting tubes unite to form larger ducts, papillary ducts, which open by means of pores on the apices of the papillae. Microscopic Sti-ucture of the Tubules, etc.— Bowman's capsule is composed of a structureless membrana propria with an inner lining of flattened epithelial cells. The membrana passes almost entirely down the urinary tube, thinning towards the end and disappearing when the principal branches of the papillary ducts are reached. The epithelium maintains its squamous character as far as the neck of the tubule, becoming then higher and presenting a very distinctive appearance in the convoluted tubules. The cells lining these tubxiles show no definite cell outlines, but present a peculiar granular appearance in the outer basal part where the granules are arranged in linear fashion as rods, these being limited to this part and not passing into the cytoplasm of the inner portion of the cell. If the tissue be well fixed another peculiar feature of these cells may be made out, namely, a striated cuticular hem {Biirstenhesatz) about 2 to 3 /A in thickness, the striae of which are exceedingly fine, certainly not more than "5 /x. in thickness, and are affirmed by some authors to possess vibratile movements; but this is more than doubtful. There are no secretory capil- laries, and probably no intercellular bridges between these cells. A clearer epithelium lines the descending limb of Henle, the cells of which are flattened and contain nuclei which project into the himen of the tube, giving the latter a wavy appearance. These tubes might be con- fused with capillaries if it were not for the characteristic nuclei, the thick membrana propria, and tlie absence of blood corpuscles. The epithelium which lines the thick limb of Henle's looped tubule, the spiral and the distal convoluted tubide, is similar to that lining the first part of the convoluted tube, only the epitheliiuu is not so high, the rods are not so long, and the lumen ajipears wider. As the tube passes into the connecting and then into the collecting ducts the protoplasm of the cells becomes much clearer, staining more faintly with eosin, while in the papillary ducts the epithelium becomes more cylindrical and very clear. Structure and Arrangement of the Vascular Parts.—The Malpighian bodies consist of two parts : (1) a capsule which, with the exception of the place of entrance and exit of the afferent and efferent vessels, completely invests a tuft of capillaries ; (2) the glomerulus, a space being left between the capsule and the capillaries which communicates with the lumen of the convoluted tubule. A small artery, vas aff'erens, immediately after its cnti'ance through the capsule breaks up into a bundle of fine capil- laries, from which the blood is removed by an efferent arteriole with non-striped muscle in its wall, the vas eff"erens, a vessel of smaller calibre than the afferent one. This eff'erent vessel in its turn breaks up into capillaries which surround the convoluted tubules. The glomerular capil- laries contain no muscle fibre, and so far as can be made out by the silver method, show no cell outlines such as would appear if they possessed an endothelial coat, while the afferent and efferent vessels and the capillaries around the convoluted tubules undoubtedly possess one. The walls of the glomerular capillaries seem to consist of a protoplasmic mass containing no definite cells, while covering the glomerulus and passing into the hollows on the tuft there is what KoUiker terms a syncytium, containing numerous nuclei, but showing no distinct cell outlines, in this respect differing markedly from the covering of the embryonic glomeruli. The glomeruli vary in size, and some have dis- tinguished a large from a small variety. Where the vessels penetrate the capsule there is direct continuity between the latter and the syncytium, or, in the case of embryonic Malpighian bodies, the cylindrical cells covering the glomerulus. It is not necessary in this short article to describe the development of the kidney, but it is advisable to refer shortly to the two important views that are at present held by scientists on the mode of development of the glandular part, and it is perhaps best to refer to it in this place after the glomerular structure has been discussed. The most widely- held theory is that associated with the names of Toldt, Kolliker, and Golgi, who supported the view that all the renal tubules are developed as outgrowths from the ureter, which pass out as solid cones of cells, forming ampullae which divide into two coiled branches under the cap- sule or close to the interlobular septa. These columns of cells become hollowed out, and capillaries, developing locally or penetrating as branches of the renal artery, go to form the glomerulus in the lower curve of the ampulla branches which run an S-shaped course. The other view, and one which is gradually becoming more widely accepted, is that the collecting tubules are derived from ureter outgrowths, but that the Malpighian bodies, the convoluted tubules, and Henle's loop are developed from a solid clump of mesoblastic cells at the periphery of a lobule lying in close relationship to the termination of the dilated extremity of a col- lecting tube. This mass of cell becomes hollowed out and coiled in the form of an S, its lower limb going to form a Malpighian body, the glomerular capillaries developing in situ, the rest of the coiled S-tube going to form convoluted tubules, Henle's loop—part of the junctional tubule probably. The junction of the collecting with the convoluted tubule takes place at the periphery of the lobule. This view brought