LABOUR, OPERATIONS I—CiESAREAN SECTION 300 to save her and her offspring, or at least to save her at the expense of her child. Concerning the latter point, whether we are justified in destroying the infant when alive, there has been, and still exists, difference of opinion, due in some measure to religious belief, and likewise to the personal feeling of the husband, who felt that very little hope was held out to him that his wife could be saved by section. Amongst such men we had Napoleon, who, when appealed to by Dubois, said : " Treat the Empress as you would a shopkeeper's wife in the Rue St. Martin; but, if one life must be lost, by all means save the mother." In marked contrast to him we had Henry VIII., who, when thus questioned before the birth of his son Edward, exclaimed: " Save the child by all means, for other wives can be easily found." At the present time such men might be put down as either a good husband but a bad father, or a good father but a bad husband. The doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church has been that, if you could not extract the child without killing it, you could not, without mortal sin, do so; and likewise, until lately, it was held that the infant could not be baptised in the iiterus, as it should be natus before it could be rcTiatus by baptism. Of late years the happy results following Cfesarean section and Porro's operation have done much to efface the dreadful feeling that we have got in such cases to decide whether the life of the mother or that of the child is to have our preference, seeing it is now quite possible to save both. Barnes wrote : " Cfesarean section is resorted to with a feeling akin to despair. Embryotomy stands first, and must be adopted in every case where it can be carried out without injuring the mother. Cajsarean section comes last, and must be resorted to in those cases where embryotomy is either impracticable, or cannot be carried out without injuring the mother. There is, therefore, no election. The law is defined and clear. Csesarean section is the last refuge of stern necessity." As against this statement. Dr. Barnes has recently said : " It is no longer permitted to us, without ample proof of clear necessity, to sacrifice the child in order to save the mother. The cases in which the two lives are supposed to stand in antagonism are vanishing before the light of modern science and skill." If anything is needed to sicken one at the revolting practice of craniotomy, I might be allowed to relate the obstetric history of a rachitic woman, who during her three last con- finements was under my personal care :— 1st—1862, . . Embryotomy. 2nd—1863, . . Embryotomy (labour in- duced). 3rd—1864, . . Embryotomy. 4th—1865, . . Induced labour at half term. 5th , . . Embryotomy (Birmingham, L.I. Hosp.). 6th—1868, . . Induced labour at half term. 7th—1870, . . Embryotomy. 8th—1871, . . Embryotomy (eighthmonth). 9th—1873, . . Embryotomy. 10th—1874, . . Embryotomy. 11th—1875, . . Induced labour at half term. We must never forget that we have a sacred trust, and I hold we have no right to sacrifice a child, however unequal its life may be in some cases to that of the mother. In advocating the preference of section as against craniotomy in the living child, I do so only after very mature consideration, and with a feeling that to do otherwise would be to sacrifice a life which I was bound to preserve. I think the time has come when the lives of the mother and child may alike be saved, and prefer to think that an infant come to maturity is destined for some- thing greater than to have its glimmering life extinguished by an accoucheur skilled in the use of a dreadful perforator. Let our motto be, " We live to save and not to destroy." In another case where the obstetric history was like the preceding one, Cfesarean section was performed, and the mother now attained her long-wished-for desire, a living child. Burns in twenty-four cases gave twenty-two deaths, whilst others gave the death-rate as from 50 per cent, to 100 per cent. With such results, it is not to be wondered at that so many opposed the operation. In England, for example, accoucheurs condemned it absolutely. In Paris, during half a century, there was not a successful case, although it had been performed about sixty times. In the large Maternity Hospitals of Paris and Vienna, with from four to eight thousand confinements in the year, not a single successful case of Cfesarean section has been recorded. No doubt now exists that the great fatality was due to the fact that the operation was only resorted to after other measures had failed. hidications for the Operation.—As regards the general indications for the operation, of course they vary in the hands of diff"erent operators, as some, still looking upon Ceesarefin section as a last resource, divide the indications into absolute and relative. The absolute is where the deformity of the pelvis is so pronounced that the passage of even a mutilated foetus is impossible, whilst the relfitive is where they may remove a mutilated foetus by the natural passage with as good or a better result for the mother. It is here that difference of opinion exists. Baudelocque admitted Csesarean section in cases with a conjugate diameter under 2lj inches ; Cazeaux, 2 inches ; Tarnier, 2 inches ; and Depaul from 1| to 2^ inches where the child was alive, and under 1| inches when the foetus