JOINTS, DISEASES OF 79 aTid of excision ; the original distinction between these procedures has largely disappeared; the modern atypical operation for the cure of tuber- culous joint disease sometimes partakes of the characters of an arthrectomy, sometimes of an excision, but in many cases neither of these terms would accurately describe the operation which best meets the requirements of the case. A formal excision is more often employed in the knee and elbow than in other joints, modified in the case of children in view of the functional importance of the epiphysial junctions con- cerned. For details the reader is referred to the articles on the individual joints. In the after-treatment of cases subjected to operation, it is essential that they should be under direct supervision for several years in case of a relapse of the disease, to promote mobility where the joint is intended to be movable, and to prevent deformities and abnormal attitudes where it is intended to be stifl:' or rigid. Massage, electri- city, exercises, and hydrotherapy promote the recovery of function. When the functional result is good, the wasting and arrest of growth of the muscles and of the limb as a whole are more likely to be recovered from. The operative treatment of deformities resulting from tuberculous joint disease has almost entirely replaced the former attempts by forcible re- duction, because of the unsatisfactory results and of the risks involved (fracture, separation of epiphysis, fat embolism, lighting up of quiescent encapsulated foci, etc.). The modern procedure is to divide the contracted soft parts by open operation, and to divide or resect the bone where there is imdesirable osseous ankylosis (see individual joints). The treatment of relapse or recrudescence of the disease at the site of operation is carried out on the same lines as for the original disease, and should be had recourse to as soon as it is recognised. The same remark applies to tuberculous disease in the associated lymphatic glands. Amputation or disarticulation of the limb for tuberculous joint disease is becoming one of the rare operations in surgery. It is only employed where recovery is otherwise hopeless. The general health and age of the patient, and the occurrence of local and general septic com- plications, are the chief determining factors. Amputation should never be performed unless it secures a complete removal of the disease both in the bones and in the soft parts. Other things being equal, one has less hesitation in having recourse to amputation in the lower than in the upper limb. Syphilitic Diseases These are decidedly rare as compared with tuberculous diseases, syphilis being much more a disease of bone than of joints. It is probable that their rarity has been over-estimated, because they are not always correctly diagnosed. As in tuberculosis, they may be primary in the joint, or secondary to disease in the adjacent bones. In acquired sypthilis the joint affections may be described as early and late. (i.) The early lesions occur in what is con- veniently described as the secondary period. They may assume the form of an arthralgia, corresponding to the bone pains, and affecting the shoulder, knee, wrist, or ankle ; the joint becomes sensitive and painful, and the pain is worst at night. There are no organic changes in the joint. They may assume the form of a serous synovitis, sometimes called syphilitic rheumatism, from its resemblance to polyarticular rheumatism ; the joint or joints become swollen, hot, and painful, and there may be a certain amount of fever, or of a hydrops, which is met with almost exclusively in the knee; it is frequently bilateral; it is very insidious in its onset and progress; the patient may be able to go about; if untreated, it may last for months. Both the synovitis and the hydrops may closely resemble the corresponding lesions resulting from gonorrhoea; they rapidly and completely disappear, however, under syphilitic treatment. (ii.) The late or tertiary lesions of joints are much more persistent and destructive; they result from the formation of gummata in the extra-articular tissues, either in the deeper layers of the synovial membrane or in the adjacent bone or periosteum; this explains the absence of articular symptoms in the early stages. In the majority of cases severe joint symptoms do not develop unless as a result of breaking down of the gummatous tissue and the addition of septic infection. Perisynovial and peribursal gummata are most often met with in relation to the knee-joint of adults of middle age, and especially of women ; the gummata are usually midtiple, they develop very slowly, and may be unattended with any symptoms ; they are rarely sensitive or painful; in the working classes the patient may not apply for advice until the gumma has broken down and given rise to a tertiary ulcer. The simultaneous presence over the knee-joint of indolent swellings, of ulcers, and of depressed scars is very characteristic. When the gum- mata do not break down, the resemblance to the white swelling of tuberculous origin may be considerable; attention should be directed to the nodular, uneven, irregular character of the gummatous affection; sometimes the skin is red and tender over a gumma without the decided liquefaction and fluctuation which would ac- company reddening of the skin in a tuberculous lesion. Effusion into the joint is rarely a prominejit feature. The gummatous nodules when close