LIVER, DISEASES OF 484 two-thirds in women. This greater incidence of the disease in women seems to depend on a special association between pregnancy and this disease. Pregnancy.—The influence of pregnancy is borne out by the fact that a large proportion of the cases occur in connection with this event. The liver is, it appears, peculiarly susceptible to morbid changes during pregnancy, and there is reason to believe that degenerative changes in the liver play a very important part in the production of puerperal eclampsia. As to the period of pregnancy at which acute yellow atrophy occurs, statistics show that it is com- monest from the fourth to the seventh month. Mental disturbance, shock, or fright has pre- ceded the onset of the disease in a certain number of cases. The mental worry in persons with syphilis or in women that are pregnant, especially if unmarried, may tend further to depress the resistance of the body and so dispose to the disease. In six fatal cases recorded by Hardie of acute yellow atrophy of the liver in Australia, im- portance was attached to the anxiety and fear with which women look forward to parturition in hot climates. Syphilis.—The secondary stage of syphilis is sometimes accompanied by jaundice; this is usually harmless and yields to specific treat- ment. In rare instances acute yellow atrophy supervenes. This is said to be more often seen in women than in men. The syphilitic toxin would appear to attack the liver acutely just as it sometimes attacks the spinal cord, giving rise to acute myelitis. Alcoholic excess in a few instances has ap- parently stood in a causal relation to acute yellow atrophy ; in some instances the condition of acute red atrophy has been found after recent and undoubted excessive indulgence. Inasmuch as alcohol is a protoplasmic poison, it is not improbable that the resistance of the liver being diminished by alcoholic excess, other causes making for acute yellow atrophy are thus enabled to become effective. The Influence of Pre-existing Hepatic Disease. —The lesions of acute yellow atrophy may supervene in the course of morbid conditions of the liver such as cirrhosis, chronic venous con- gestion, or gall-stone obstruction. The onset is no doubt disposed to by the morbid condition of the organ. In these cases it is more convenient to describe the condition as icterus gravis rather than as acute yellow atrophy. Relation to Phosjihorus Poisoning.—Inasmuch as there is considerable resemblance between the clinical features of acute yellow atrophy and phosphorus poisoning, it has been thought that all cases of acute yellow atrophy are due to phosphorus poisoning. In support of this it might be urged that examples of what were for a time considered undoubted examples of acute yellow atrophy have, on further inquiry, turned out to be due to phosphorus poisoning. Generally speaking, however, the differences between the two conditions are sufficiently marked to separate them and not to warrant the assumption that they are the same. The differences are ;— (i.) In acute yellow atrophy the diminution in size is practically constant, whereas in phos- phorus poisoning enlargement is the rule. (ii.) In acute yellow atrophy the changes in the liver-cells lead to rapid disintegration with but slight increase in the amount of fat; while in phosphorus poisoning there is very extensive fatty change in the liver-cells, the amount of fat in the organ reaching 30 per cent as against 5 per cent in acute yellow atrophy. It may be safely assumed that the two con- ditions are allied forms of icterus gravis, but there is no proof of the view that they are one and the same. Morbid Anato?)iy.—The liver is greatly dimin- ished in size and in weight; it may be half or even a third of its normal weight, often scaling 28 oz. instead of the normal 50 oz. It is uni- formly atrophied in most cases, but exceptionally the less affected parts may form rather promi- nent projections. The changes are often more marked on the left lobe, where the morbid process probably often begins. The capsule is wrinkled and loose, so that it can be picked up by the fingers, like the walls of a half-filled bladder. If a stream of water is turned on to the surface of the liver the capsule is thrown into folds and wrinkles by the jet of water. The outside of the organ has a greenish- yellow colour with red splashes; subserous haemorrhages may be present under the capsule. The liver is flabby and limp, and collapses and bends under its own weight; thus it readily doubles over on itself and is without the rigidity of a normal liver. This flabbiness of the organ allows it to drop back during life from the abdominal wall, its place being taken by the colon. As a result, the liver dulness may be entirely absent. The liver cuts with the same kind of resistance that collapsed lung does, and, though very flabby, is not softer or more easily broken down by the finger than in health. Many writers, however, state that the liver is softened. Possibly this is more true in icterus gravis. On section of the organ the surface is seen to be of a bright yellow colour. Usually, in addi- tion to the more general yellow atrophy there are areas of red atrophy. As a rule, there is more of the yellow change; but in some rare examples of what have been called acute red atrophy, diffuse red atrophy greatly predomi- nates or is universal. In the red areas the degenerative change is of oldest duration, while in the yellow areas it is more recent. It would appear that the longer the patient lives the