209 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED passenger ; (3) from anomalies of the passage— (a) of the bones, (b) of the soft parts. (1) Weakness of the Powers.—We know hardly anything of the conditions which determine the strength and rapidity of uterine action during labour. We have no data from which, when consulted by a pregnant woman, we can predict that, other conditions being normal, her labour will be quick or slow. Uterine action depends not upon the general health : women in the last stage of phthisis have been known to have quick deliveries; and lingering labour has been ob- served in women of robust health and powerful build. Uterine Inertia There are three forms of weakness of pains : A. Prwiary Uterine Inertia.— This means that the uterine contractions are infrequent, short, and weak. As Dakin puts it, " The process is leisurely." We know almost nothing of the causes of primary uterine inertia. It is annoy- ing to the accoucheur, because it wastes his time; wearisome to the patient's friends; and tiresome to the patient herself, because she has to wait so long for her baby; but it is attended with no danger and no additional suffering. All the treatment wanted is time. The chief danger is lest the accoucheur's impatience should over- master his judgment, and make him set about premature forcible delivery. There are some conditions which help to produce it. Too much liq^ior amnii, by overstretching the uterus, will weaken it, and thus cause weakness of pains. Too close adhesion of the rtiemhranes to the uterus sometimes prevents the bag of mem- branes from moving on as it should do, pressing into, and dilating the circle of the os. This will cause labour to be slow, for the stimulus of the pressure upon the os uteri which should provoke reflex uterine contractions is absent. In such a case, if the finger is inserted, and swept round the lower segment of the uterus, so as to separate the membranes as far as pos- sible, the bag of membranes will be enabled to move on, and to press into the os uteri; and more frequent uterine contractions will follow as a reflex effect. To this cause is due the weakness of pains so often present in cases of placenta prsevia: the placenta being attached round the os uteri is separated with more difficulty than the membranes, and hence more slowly protrudes into the os, and less effectively stimulates uterine contraction. The artificial separation of as much as possible of the placenta when it is prsevia, has long been recognised as good practice, and it acts in the same way as the artificial separation of the membranes. The strength or frequency of uterine contractions cannot be influenced by the will, although the uterine action may be helped during the second stage of labour by the abdominal muscles. The action of the uterus is influenced by emotion; VOL. V the entrance of the accoucheur often, to use women's phrase, "frightens away the pains." Fulness of bladder a7id rectum are commonly assigned as causes of uterine inertia, though it is difficult to explain how. If either viscus is full it shoixld be emptied, by catheter or enema if the patient cannot relieve herself. The bladder is usually drawn iip out of the pelvis into the abdomen during the second stage of labour ; but if prolapse is present, the bladder may so sink that when full it obstructs the progress of the head, and the head may then prevent the bladder from being drawn up. If the rectum is allowed to continue full, the descending head will have to squeeze out the faeces before it—a process which delays delivery, and is annoying to the accoucheur. B. Secondary Uterine Inertia: also called " uterine exhaustion " or " temporary passiveness." —This means, that after uterine contractions have for a time recurred with average frequency and been of average strength, they get less and less frequent and usually also less and less vigorous. The patient may go for hours without a pain. The progress of the labour is during this time almost suspended : but some uterine retraction may go on, though pain is absent. If nothing is done, the patient will go to sleep: and by sleep nervous energy will be recuperated, and then uterine action will re- commence with frequency and vigour. This condition is free from danger, excepting such as may result from the impatience of the accoucheur. If he will not wait for the return of uterine action, but drags the child out while the uterus is passive, post-partum hsemorrhage is likely to follow. This is the explanation of the well-known fact that thei-e are some medical men in whose practice post-partum hsemorrhage is common, while others hardly ever meet with it. Those who get haemorrhage are those who drag the child away while the uterus is not acting. It is true that delivery in the absence of a pain is not invariably followed by hsemor- rhage ; this is because uterine action is essen- tially intermittent, so that a long interval with- out a pain does not always mean that uterine exhaustion is present. Towards the end of such an interval uterine contractility may have re- turned, and if then the patient is artificially delivered, the stimulus of the accoucheur's manipulations may provoke uterine contraction. But forced delivery, while the uterus is ex- hausted, will certainly be followed by dangerous haemorrhage in the third stage. The men who get no post-partum haemorrhage are those who act on the rule never to deliver in the absence of uterine action : to pull in order to help uterine contractions, not to replace them. Diagnosis.—It is most important to dis- tinguish between secondary uterine inertia and tonic contraction of the uterus. The distinction is, as Braxton Hicks used to put it, the very 14