JAUNDICE 61 atrophy is in the size of the liver. But in exceptional cases of phosphorus poisoning the liver is not enlarged, and in the early stages of some examples of acute yellow atrophy it is enlarged, so that the clinical resemblance between the two affections may sometimes be very close. The urine is somewhat diminished in quantity, but never suppressed ; it is high-coloured and of rather high specific gravity. It may contain albumin, blood, and casts. There are generally bile pigments and bile acids, while sarcolactic acid is very frequently present. It was formerly said that leucin and tyrosin were not present in the urine, and stress was laid on this in the diagnosis from acute yellow atrophy ; it is now known that leucin and tyrosin may be present in the urine in phosphorus poisoning, but are far from being constantly found. Leucin is less frequently found than tyrosin. The amount of urea was formerly thought to be greatly diminished; it now appears that though it is diminished in the early stages when all food is refused by the stomach, it is absolutely increased in the later stages as a result of increased metabolism. Experimentally it has been shown that the rise in the proteid metabolism in phosphorus poisoning is only equalled by that in phloridzin diabetes. It is said that alimentary glycosuria is more readily induced in phosphorus poisoning than in health, but it is very seldom found in practice; Hunter says that only three cases are on record. Diagnosis.—The history that phosphorus has been swallowed, or that symptoms justifying this conclusion have recently occurred, is a most important if not essential point. The presence of phosphorus in the vomit, or the fact that the vomited matters are luminous in the dark, of course settles the question. In the differential diagnosis from acute yellow atrophy the following points should be borne in mind :—(i.) The large size of the liver, (ii.) The amount of urea is not diminished except in the earliest stage, (iii.) The greater prominence of gastro-intestinal symptoms. Prognosis.—In cases where jaundice and enlargement of the liver come on, the outlook is very grave ; most cases die. Treatment.—When the poison has been recently taken the stomach should be emptied and washed out. As an antidote, French or old or oxidised oil of turpentine should be given every quarter of an hour for the first hour, 40 minims in an emulsion, and afterwards three or four times daily. Permanganate of potash and sanitas have also been recommended. Mucilaginous drinks should be given; but oils or fats should be avoided, as they render the phosphorus more soluble. Purgatives should be given. When the grave constitutional symptoms have developed, no special treatment can be relied on. Ja.W-ClonuS.—A phenomenon (series of rhythmical contractions of the muscles of the jaw) occasionally seen, in cases of progressive muscular atrophy, on pulling down the lower jaw. See Jaws ; Tendon-Jerks. Ja.WS. See Mouth, Injuries and Diseases OP the Jaw ; see also Acromegaly {^Pathological Anatomy, Jaw); Actinomycosis {Primary Actinomycosis of Mouth and Pharynx); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Paralysis from Vascular Lesions, Reflexes, Jaw-Jerh) ; Labour, Management of {Podalic Presentations, Jaw Traction); Labour, Accidental Complications {Foetal Injuries, Jaw); Leontiasis Ossea {Megalocephaly); Meningitis, Posterior Basic {Symptoms); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflam- mation of {Maxillary Sinus); Rheumatism, Rheu- matoid Arthritis {Clinical Features, Temporo- Maxillary Joint)-jTbetb. ; Toxicology {Phosphorus Poisoning, Necrosis of Jaw); Trades, Dan- gerous {Phosphoi'us and Lucifer Match-Making. —When we consider the important role played by the upper and lower jaws in health, the importance of their role in disease is obvious. According to popular belief the set of the lower jaw, by which is meant the state of development and tenacity of its bony and muscular structures, is an important index of character—that is, an index of the state of mental development of the individual. In this connection it is interesting to refer to the views entertained by some alienists, that a similar imperfect state of development of the upper jaw, as revealed by a characteristic arch of the palate, is not in- frequent in many cases of mental deficiency, more especially in those which first manifest symptoms about the end of the first decade. This view is by no means fully confirmed by the experience of dental practitioners, and the subject will be again referred to. (See " Teeth.") The diseases of the lower jaw are almost entirely surgical, including various forms of inflammation, tumour growths, and cystic forma- tions, involving the mucous membrane of the gums, the periosteum, or the bone. The main points of more medical interest are those re- lating to affections of the temporo-maxillary joint (see " Rheumatism" and " Rheumatoid Arthritis "), the different forms of neuralgia, and the later stages of paralysis when the "jaw- jerk " is a marked clinical symptom. (See "Neuralgia" and "Paralysis.") Diseases of the upper jaw have special signifi- cance because of the various irregular cavities that lie amongst the bones of the face and the intercommunications between these different cavities. When we bear in mind that the upper jaw is the principal bone of the face, entering into the