LIVER, DISEASES OF 464 (2) Lardaceous disease.—The liver is much firmer than in fatty liver, and there may be signs of lardaceoiis disease of the kidneys (albuminuria), splenic enlargement, or diarrhoea. (3) A cirrhotic liver, especially for an enlarged cirrhotic liver, with latency of the symptoms.— When there are no symptoms the diagnosis is very difficult, and turns chiefly on the surface of the liver. If it is smooth, fatty change is probable; while if irregular, cirrhosis is indi- cated. In numerous instances fatty change is associated with cirrhosis. (4) A displaced liver, if movable, is at once recognised ; but if displaced by some cause, such as a pleural effusion or pneumotliorax that is not detected, a further mistake is not improbable, and it might be regarded as a large fatty liver. (5) Enlargement of the liver due to a deep- seated hydatid cyst or abscess. Here the liver is much more prominent and more easily felt and mapped out, while there may be signs of pressure or fever. Treatment. — The primary cause, such as obesity or pidmonary tuberculosis, and not the liver, should be treated. Lardaceous Liver In lardaceous disease the liver is less fre- quently affected than the spleen and kidneys. Thus combining the statistics of Birch-Hirschfeld, Loomis, Dickinson, and Turner, in 645 cases of lardaceous disease the spleen was affected in 486, the kidney in 429, and the liver in 314. The liver is uniformly enlarged, smooth, and painless; the edge is firm and regular. The enlargement may be very considerable, and even reach to the level of the iliac spines. No symptoms can be referred to lardaceous aflfection of the liver apart from the general symptoms of the disease. It has been thought that ascites may be set up by lardaceous lymphatic glands in the portal fissure; ascites, however, is rare in uncom- plicated lardaceous liver, and when it does occur is probably part only of universal oedema. Under treatment the hepatic enlargement has been known to diminish considerably. Lardaceous change may, however, be associ- ated with cirrhosis, gummata, syphilitic cica- trices, perihepatitis, or abscess. Jaundice, ascites, and pain may be due to such condi- tions complicating lardaceous disease. Lardaceous disease of the liver may be ex- pected in a patient with signs of lardaceous disease of other organs, such as enlarged spleen, albuminuria with a low tension pulse and no cardiac hypertrophy, dropsy, anaemia, and diar- rhoea, where the liver is smooth and enlarged. Signs of past suppuration, of syphilis, or chronic phthisis are important in concluding that in a given case hepatic enlargement is due to the lardaceous change. A lardaceous liver must be distinguished from other causes of painless and uniform enlarge- ment. In the absence of anaemia, of some degree of wasting, and of the antecedents of the lardaceous change—prolonged suppuration and syphilis— of evidence of concomitant lardaceous change in the kidneys and intestines as shown by albumin- uria, oedema, and diarrhoea, the probabilities are against the lardaceous change. Fatty liver in phthisis may imitate lardaceous change in the liver; but the organ is not so firm, and other evidences of lardaceous disease are wanting. A deep-seated hydatid cyst may push the liver forward, and give rise to enlargement like that of the lardaceous organ; but the general health is good, no cause for the change is forthcoming, and the other symptoms of lardaceous disease are absent. A large fatty cirrhotic liver will probably be tender, or accompanied by pain or definite symptoms of cirrhosis, such as hsematemesis. In leukaemia the liver is often considerably enlarged, painless, and smooth; this is more frequently seen in the lymphatic than in the spleno-medullary form. Examination of the blood will at once settle any question between these two diseases. In the rare event of lymph- adenoma giving rise to considerable hepatic enlargement, evidence of enlargement of the lymphatic glands elsewhere in body will prob- ably be forthcoming, and the temperature may be hectic. When lardaceous disease is combined with gummata or syphilitic cicatrices, the diagnosis from malignant disease may be difficult, and depends on the effect of antisyphilitic treat- ment, the evidence of syphilis elsewhere, and the more chronic course of the disease. The treatment of lardaceous liver is that of lardaceous disease generally; when combined with syphilis or cirrhosis the lines of treatment are those of the complicating disease. For the pathology, morbid anatomy, and other points the reader is referred to the article on "Lardaceous Degeneration," p. 316. Pigmentation of the Liver In Hemochromatosis .... 464 In Anthracosis ..... 465 Microscopic Pigmentation in Various Conditions 465 HiEMOCHROMATOSis. — In the condition de- scribed by V. Recklinghausen as hsemochroma- tosis there is very extensive destruction of the red blood corpuscles and deposit of pigment in various parts of the body, especially in the liver, pancreas, and skin. It has been suggested by Adami that this destruction of the red blood corpuscles is due to bacterial infection, and by Meunier that there is a toxic factor analogous to toluylenediamine at work. The deposit of