403 LEUCOCYTOSIS leucocyte count of 3000 or 4000 in the third week of the disease is not uncommon. This fact was, of course, of greater practical importance before the introduction of the serum method, but even yet there occur cases in which it is of value. In acute miliary tuberculosis the leuco- cytes are usually about the normal condition, but in phthisis with cavity formation a more or less marked leucocytosis is present. In connec- tion with these facts it must, of course, be kept in view that in the diseases where leucocytosis usually occurs, it may be absent, or even a con- verse condition may be present, as explained above. It follows from what we have stated that the condition of the leucocytes alone must not be accepted in any hard and fast sense in relation I to diagnosis, but from the same fact it is evident that when the diagnosis is otherwise established, a variation from the condition usually present may be of great importance. Thus, for example, the fall in the leucocyte number, without corre- sponding fall in the temperature, is of grave significance, and in typhoid fever the appear- ance of leucocytosis may suggest the presence of some secondary inflammatory or suppurative complication. Pneumonia has been specially mentioned as II an example in which the disappearance or absence of leucocytosis is of grave omen; but a similar change may occur in other diseases. Thus it has been observed in some forms of very 1 grave septicaemia and in some cases of diphtheria ; in fact, it may be interpreted as evidence of a very high degree of general poisoning. It must be clearly understood, however, that in many conditions a well-marked leucocytosis may be present up to the time of death. In addition to these more acute infective conditions, in which leucopenia may occur, the number of leucocytes is diminished as a rule in various chronic diseases. Among such may be mentioned pernicious ansemia, chlorosis, some j forms of severe anaemia attended with purpura, hfemophilia, some cases of goitre, and certain cases with enlargement of spleen and anaemia, to which the term " splenic anaemia " is given. Frequently in such conditions the leucocyte number is about 3000 per c.mm.; but in some examples of severe pernicious anaemia the I number may be uniformly about 1000 per c.mm. On the other hand, in some cases of pernicious anaemia the number is little diminished below normal. We do not yet know the significance, from a prognostic point of view, of these varia- tions in different cases. Here again the diminu- tion is chiefly on the part of the finely granular leucocytes, and therefore, according to the above definition, lymphocytosis is present. In some cases of pernicious anaemia, for example, the lymphocytes may number 80 per cent of the total number of leucocytes, but there is, never- I theless, usually no actual increase in the number of lymphocytes; in fact, their number is more often below the normal than above it. The Presence of Myelocytes.—These are large cells, often measuring 14 or 16 m. in diameter, with a rounded oval or slightly indented nucleus, poor in chromatin, and with finely granular protoplasm. Their presence in large numbers is an outstanding feature of the spleno-meduUary leucocythaemia or myelocythaemia, and it was for some time believed that they occurred in no other condition. More extended observations, however, have shown that they appear in the blood, though in very small numbers, in a variety of conditions. They are not infrequently met with, for example, in pneumonia, and other conditions, especially when the conditions are of grave nature, and the leucocyte number is low or falling. Even in cases running a favour- able course, with a well-marked leucocytosis, one or two myelocytes may be present, and also, what is of some importance, a few cells intermediate in character between them and the ordinary polymorpho-nucleated leucocytes. In cases of grave anaemia, also, a few myelocytes may appear in the blood, and in some cases of marked cachexia due to malignant disease a considerable proportion has been observed. It must be clearly understood that the cells to which the term myelocyte is applied are those containing fine neutrophile granules. This fact has not been sufficiently attended to, and ac- cordingly the larger hyaline leucocytes of the blood have been mistaken for myelocytes, and error has accordingly resulted in the record of cases. There can be practically no doubt that these cells are normally present in the marrow only; according to our opinion they are the progenitors of the finely granular leucocytes of the blood. It is somewhat difficult to state exactly the conditions on which their entrance into the blood-stream depends, but it is of con- siderable significance that a few nucleated red blood corpuscles are in a very large proportion of cases present in the blood along with the myelocytes. This is not only the case in severe anaemia, but also in severe infective conditions. We can only state that their appearance is due to some disturbance of the cellular arrangement in the bone-marrow—an arrangement by which both they and the nucleated red blood corpuscles are prevented from entering the circulation in the normal state. Such a disturbance may occur in the case of great dilution of the blood (anaemia), as a result of toxic agency, as in many infective conditions, and in some cases the result of tumour growth in the bone-mari'ow. 2. Lymphocytosis.—A percentage increase of lymphocytes, of course, occurs where there is leucopenia with diminution in the finely granular leucocytes {vide supra). An actual increase has been observed in malignant disease afltecting the lymphoid tissue, and also in some other con- ditions of enlargement, e.g. tubercular, also in