111 KIDNEY the third year, though from a variety of causes it may remain torpid or only progress very slowly—possessing a life history extending over ten or fifteen years. I submit that a slender basis in the estimate of the duration or rate of progress of the dis- ease is afforded by the clinical aspect of the hsematurias. Bursts of sharp hsematurias are indications of torpidity. 5. On the Macroscopy of Renal Tubercle.—■ The final shape and size of the diseased gland is irrespective of the character of the invasion. But there is much clinical evidence to be obtained in determining the character of the tumour. (a) It may be unfeelable. This happens when the disease is in its earliest stage, or in its latest obsolescent stage. In either case a kidney may be so small and fixed so high up under the ribs as not only to be unfeelable, but to be also insensient to pressure. This occurs both in primary and consecutive renal tuberculosis if the disease is very chronic, if the upper part of the cortex is inflamed, and if the ureter is open. Unfeelable kidneys are rarely accompanied by pyrexia. {b) It may form a definite, smooth, but irregular, movable tumour. This type is usually the result of primary tuberculosis with more or less intermittent occlusion of the ureter, forming- slight pyonephrosis. The temperature is in this case usually slightly raised (99° F.) at night. If septic pyelitis coexists the temperature rises much higher (101° F.). The tumour is tender in proportion to the inflammation. Very rarely is a huge tumour tuberculous throughout; when such exists it is called " tuberculose massive " (Monti). (c) It may present itself as a large fixed mass in the loin. Such a condition occurs usually as a leakage through the cortex, leading to enormous thickening and matting of the peri- adipotic capsule, or even perinephritis (cp. end of clinical note 4). It is of importance for the surgeon to remember that the kidney may appear to the eye and be to the touch absolutely healthy, and yet be extensively ulcerated by tuberculosis at either extremity of the pelvis. 6. Clinical Note on Morbid Additions to the Urine. Formation and Passage of " Dirt" Stones.—True renal calculi of the acid type (vide Renal Calculi) are extremely rare, but it is not uncommon to find phosphatic grit, or phosphatic scale-like concretions in a tuberculous pelvis or even lining the entire ureter. These may be the result of ulcer crusts, or even be phosphatic material which has become deposited upon scraps of debris. To find a single phos- phatic cast of the pelvis is very uncommon. These " dirt" scale-stones add to the pain, the hsemorrhage, and the ureteric obstruction. They may cause colic, but their form, if they are evacuated, is distinctive and should not mis- lead. Radiography cannot differentiate such dirt scale-stones from phosphatic-covered culculi. 7. Clinical Note on the Detection of the Bacillus Tuberculosis.—The presence of the tubercle bacillus in clear, sterile urine is not pathognomonic of urinary tuberculosis, for the bacilli have been found in the urine of those who were suffering from phthisis, or from tuberculous bone or joint aff'ection. If, how- ever, they are found in the pyuric urine of those who complain of urinary symptoms, there is but little doubt of their having " eff'ected a destructive lodgment in some part of the urinary tract." Much stress is laid upon the similarity of tubercle bacillus to the smegma bacillus, and many urge that the specimens examined should be obtained by aseptic catheterism. It is held by some that there is a special grouping of the bacilli in renal tuberculosis—that in this disease they become massed into groups resembling the letter S. It is, I believe, an impression, neither proved as yet nor accepted, that tubercle bacilli are more easily and more abundantly found in renal than in vesical tuberculosis even before putrefactive bacteria have contaminated the urine. When the urine is decomposing in the bladder from septic cystitis, tubercle bacilli are not found. It is generally noticed that once the bladder has been subjected to a course of irrigation tubercle bacilli are not found, or only discovered with difficulty. The same statement may be made for urine examined soon after a course of injections of Koch's new tuberculin. 8. Clinical Note on the Addition of Septic Microbes.—The especial danger to the patient lies in the introduction of septic microbes. This takes place in some cases from contagion with the colon, but in many it is, I am certain, the outcome of injudicious interference with the bladder, this interference taking the form of careless irrigation, rough sounding, unskilful cystoscopy, and the like. It cannot be too strongly insisted on, that the practitioner can do infinitely more harm than good in the majority of cases of urinary tuberculosis by washing out the bladder, for the septicity which is thus introduced ascends by way of a weakly resisting ureteric mucous membrane to the pelvis, and destroys the renal- secreting tissue of that organ very rapidly. I state most emphatically that a kidney aff"ected by tuberculosis is ruined more quickly by bladder washing than by the destructive action of the tubercle. Every careful practitioner will obtain, if possible, a bacteriological report of the urine of a young adult patient, who has a causeless mild cystitis, before he irrigates the bladder as a curative measure for the inflam- mation.