327 LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS two or three hours. The steam may also be obtained from a Siegle's spray, the water being medicated with the addition of 2 per cent of benzoate of soda, or other mucus solvent. The onset of secretion may be encouraged by sipping hot milk mixed with Vichy, Vals, or Ems water, or by the administration of small doses of iodide of potassium. As the second stage of laryngitis develops the secretion of mucus may be further en- couraged by sucking the trochisci morphise c. ipecacuanha of the British Pharmacopoeia, or by the administration of the usual expectorants. I have foimd that apomorphine in doses of gr. will prove satisfactory, or the following pre- scription :—R Ammon. chloridi grs. iv.. Spirit, ether, nitrosi TH, xv., Syrup, scillse TIL xx., Syrup, tolut. ad 33. Ft. Dosis. Sig. : A tea- spoonful in water every three or four hours. Small repeated doses of iodide of potassium im- doubtedly promote secretion; and vinum anti- monialis is a useful drug either in combination with the iodide or given separately. As the acute stage passes off these "vapores" may be superseded by the sprays of liquid vaseline—known under various names as paro- leine, alboleine, cimoline, benzoinol, etc.—either plain or with the addition of menthol, camphor, eucalyptus, oleum gaultherium, oil of pepper- mint, tar, creasote, etc. As soon as the acute symptoms are past, the sooner the patient gets out of doors again the better. The use of the voice should be resumed with care, as otherwise a condition of chronic laryngitis may be set up. If there is left a want of tension in the cords this can be im- proved by the administration of strychnine or nux vomica, or by the iise of electricity and massage. As in a large majority of cases there is con- siderable catarrh of the nose and pharynx, great relief can be obtained by cleansing the nasal fossae and post-nasal space with a warm alkaline solution. Some of the various modifications of Dobell's solution will be found suitable for this; or simply 5 grains to the ounce of either borax, bicarbonate of soda, or table salt will be found sufficient. The addition of a small quantity of cocaine hydrochlorate, about gr. ^-V to the ounce, is very comforting, and in such a small pro- portion is without risk, except in children, in whom it should be entirely avoided. This cleansing is best effected with the post-nasal syringe, but it can be done with an ordinary anterior nasal syringe or coarse spray. The methods of prevention have been in- dicated in what has been already said. Modera- tion in the use of alcohol and tobacco, the avoidance of dusty, crowded, and overheated rooms, misuse of the voice, and observation of the ordinary rules of hygiene, should be en- joined. Locally, any chronic affections of the air-passages should receive attention Chronic Laryngitis Synonyms : Chronic Catarrh of the Larynx, Chronic Inflammation of the Larynx, Chronic Laryngeal Catarrh. Definition.—A chronic catarrhal inflamma- tion of the mucous membrane of the larynx, the chief symptom being alteration and impairment of the voice. Etiology.—The mucous membrane of the larynx is the part of the respiratory passages which is least seldom the primary or sole seat of chronic inflammation. Except, perhaps, in the case of professional voice-users, it is quite exceptional to find idiopathic chronic laryngitis. There are probably two causes which explain this observation. One is that the arrangements in the nose and naso-pharynx are so perfect for protecting the organism from deleterious con- ditions of the atmosphere, that the inspired air is in the most suitable conditions as regards warmth, moisture, and filtration before it reaches the vocal cords. The second reason is possibly that the non-vascularity of the vocal cords them- selves, and the scarcity of glands in the larynx, are both conditions which would lend little foothold to chronic catarrhal processes in the absence of other causes contiguous or consti- tutional. Disorders of the nasal and post-nasal cavities, and to a less extent of the pharynx and mouth, are the most potent factors in the origination of chronic laryngitis. The importance of nasal respiration is now so generally recognised that it is sufticient to call attention to the deteriora- tion which must occur in the pharynx and larynx from chronic mouth-breathing. By its passage through the nasal fossae the current of air is charged with moisture, raised to the temperature of the body, and filtered from dust and other gross impurities.^ In ordinary con- ditions it is also deprived of the micro-organisms which float in it, the greater number being arrested at the very entrance of the nostrils, while those which penetrate farther are enclosed in the nasal mucus, which is inimical both to their development and to their farther penetra- tion. The leucocytes also help in resisting bacterial invasion, while the ciliated epithelium rapidly removes the arrested organisms.^ Now chronic catarrhal affections by narrowing the calibre of the nasal chambers, diminishing or altering the secretion of their mucous surfaces, and destroying the properties of the ciliated epithelium, interfere with these physiological ' Aschenbrandt: Bie Bedentung der Nase fiir die Atinung, Wtirzburg, 1886 ; Kayser, "Die Bedentung der Nase filr die Respiration," Pfliiger's Archiv, Bd. xli., 1887 ; Bloch, " Zur Physiologie der Naseiiatmung," Zeitschrift f. Ohrenheilk., Bd. xviii., 1888 ; MacDonald, Respiratory Fiinclions of the Nose, London, 1889 ; Schiitter, Annales des mal. de I'oreille, April 1893. ^ St. Clair Thomson and Hewlett, Lancet, January 1896.