186 LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM If left and right are interchanged, the mechaiiisjii of this position is described in the same way as that of the first breech. Third Breech.—Right sacro-posterior. Diagnosis.—The bitrochanteric diameter lies in the left oblique. The back looks to the right and rather backwards, and the limbs to the left and slightly forwards. The heart may not be heard; if it is, it will be found on the right side above the level of the navel. Mechanism. — As the breech descends, the right hip rotates towards the pvibic arch. The trunk is lateriflexed, and also bent slightly forwards. The hips are then born in the same way as in the mechanisms just described, and the abdomen of the child is turned to the mother's left thigh. After this there are two ways in which the rest of the child may follow :— 1. The trunk may continue to rotate in the same direction as that in which it has already moved, and the shoulders will then descend in the right oblique, the right shoulder still being in front. The occiput is thus brought forwards, and the rest of the mechanism is that of a second breech. 2. The shoulders descend in the same oblique diameter as the hips, and the head will then lie in the right oblique with the occiput slightly backwards. The head then comes down and the occiput is rotated forwards. This is mainly on account of the tension in the direction of flexion which the upper part of the child is now experiencing. If further descent were to take place with the occiput backwai-ds, the chin would have to be still further flexed on the thorax to allow the neck and upper part of the chest to follow the curve forwards of the maternal canal at this level; whereas if the occiput comes forwards the tension is at once relieved, and the head, by an easy extension, is born as in the preceding mechanisms. Also, if the head came down with the occiput not forwards a long diameter of the head would be thrown transversely across the outlet—one, in fact, near the mento-vertical, or at least the mento-occipital—and this would cause the walls of the canal to be stretched in a way that would bring about a rotation of the head into another position, this position being one with the occiput forwards (see p. 176). In the first kind of mechanism the rotation forwards of the back of the child occurs between the passage of the hips through the brim, and that of the shoulders through the same ring; and in the second, after the passage of the shoulders. Fourth Breech.—Left sacro-posterior. The bitrochanteric diameter is in the right oblique, and substituting left for right through- out, the mechanism is the same as that occurring in the last described position. Abnormal Mechanisms in the Sacro-posterior Positions.—These variations occur when the head descends into the pelvis with the occiput backwards and the head insufficiently flexed. Then, just as in presentations of the head-end of the child, the longer diameters of the head lie across the pelvis, and prevent the rotation forwards which normally takes place. The occipiit is found, therefore, in the hollow of the sacrum, unable to rotate forwards as it has done in the hitherto described sacro-posterior positions. The usual thing to happen now is that the occiput shall hitch on the edge of the perinteum, which fits into the nape of the neck. The head then flexes farther on to the chest; and the chill and the rest of the face glide under the pubic arch. A less common way of delivery of the head in such a case is for the chin to hitch behind the symphysis, and for the head to revolve round this as a centre. The longest (mento-vertical) diameter of the head is thus thrown across the outlet, and the head is delivered as an inverted face, plus the length of the chin. Footling Presentations.—The diagnosis of this presentation can be made from the vagina only. One or both feet may present, and one or two limbs may be foiuid in the vagina. The only other presentation with which a foot can be confused is that of the hand and arm. The characteristic part of the foot is the heel, to which no counterpart exists in the hand. The toes all lie close together, and there is no thumb to be separated from the rest of the digits. The heel is distinguished from the olecranon, with which it might be momentarily confounded, by tracing the sole of the foot forwards and finding the toes. The direction of the heel shows the direction of the occiput. Mechanism.—If both feet are down, labour is easier in its early stages than in the case of a breech. But when the shoulders, and later the head, come down, these parts have to do the dilatation which should have been performed by the breech, and there is corresponding delay ; otherwise, the mechanism is that of a breech. If, however, only one foot present, the other being doubled up in its normal position, the state of affairs is much more favourable. The half breech is able to dilate the passage pretty well, and this presentation is the one always artificially produced after version. It is important to remember how the mechanism is modified by the presentation of one foot. This foot is the lowest part of the child, and is therefore first influenced by the trend forwards of the pelvic floor; it is in consequence rotated to the front, wherever it may be to start with. The bearing of this is, that when version happens to be required in a pelvis of which one side is more roomy than the other, and in which it is desirable to make the occiput pass through the larger half, the