82 JOINTS, DISEASES OF As regards the progress of the disease, it is usually observed that in patients who are still young the tendency is to advance with consider- able rapidity, so that in the course of a few months it may cause serious crippling of several of the joints. In older patients its progress is much more gradual and intermittent, and in them the disease is compatible with long life. Treatment, in the absence of definite know- ledge of the etiology of the disease, is chiefly directed towards the relief of symptoms. On no account should the affected joints be kept at rest. Passive movements, exercises of all kinds, massage, and douching are to be steadily persevered with. When pain is a prominent feature it may be relieved either by douches of iodine and hot water, or by application of lint saturated with chloral gr. v., glycerine 33, water gj, or with equal parts of menthol and parolein, and covered with oil-silk. Operative interference (arthrectomy, arthrodesis, excision) is indicated in the large joints of the limbs when the disease is of an aggravated type, is mono-articular, and the patient is neither old nor unhealthy. A course of treatment at one of the reputed baths, e.g. Aix, Bath, Buxton, Gastein, Wies- baden, Wildbad, is often of great service. The patient should be well nourished. There should be no I'estriction, such as is required in gouty patients, so long as the digestion is not impaired. Benefit is also derived from the administration of cod-liver oil and of tonics. Arthritis ossificans is the riame applied by Griffiths of Cambridge to a condition in which the joints aff'ected become obliterated as a result of fusion of the bones with one another. The cancellous tissue of the one becomes directly continuous with the other without any trace of separation across what was originally the joint cavity. The disease usually begins in the early years of adult life. It is more often met with in men. It is slow in its progress, inasmuch as years elapse before the joints become rigid. It is polyarticular, one joint being affected after another. It may involve all the joints of the body. Its origin is unknown. H^ffiMOPHYLIA HiEMARTHROSIS— Bleeders' Joint Although described in the article on " Hsemo- phylia," in vol. iv., it may be useful to refer to the clinical features of bleeders' joint so as to bring out the contrast between it and other diseases of joints. The subject is usually a boy or youth, who, without any definite injury, presents a rapid effusion into a joint, usually the knee. There is little pain. The tempera- ture may be considerably elevated (102° F.). The patient frequently exhibits ecchymoses or swellings on other parts of the body, so that he should be completely stripped for purposes of examination. After a single hajmorrhage into the joint the blood is reabsorbed, especially under the influence of gentle massage and passive movements. After repeated attacks, however, secondary changes occur, associated with the persistence of blood-clot and its partial organisation, and the joint may become uni- formly swollen and stiff, so that the resemblance to white swelling may be so close that a mis- taken diagnosis has been made by experienced observers, and an operation has been performed which has cost the patient his life. The treat- ment consists in the maintenance of rest, the application of cold and of compressing bandages when the htemorrhage is recent. After an interval the use of massage and of gentle passive movements promotes the absorption of the blood and hinders or prevents the occurrence of stiffness. IV. Joint Diseases associated with Lesions OF THE Nervous System—Neuro-Arthro- pathies — Spinal Arthropathies — Char- cot's Disease. In the absence of any proof of the existence of special trophic nerves distributed to joints, the diseases under consideration are to be regarded as related to a disturbance of the sensory nerves which pass from the joints to the spinal cord, whereby they are cut off from the reflex vasomotor influence which is necessary for their proper nutrition and for their capacities of recuperating from the effects of injury. The joints present a diminished resistance to trauma and other external influences very similar to that exhibited by the skin in its liability to pressure sores, perforating ulcer, and other trophic disturbances. It may be said, there- fore, that while the nerve lesion prepares the way for the joint disease, its onset and progress are largely dependent upon external factors, of which trauma in its various forms is the most important. A patient whose knee-joint is anaesthetic and analgesic is not only more ex- posed to minor forms of injury, but he continues to use the joint, whereas under normal conditions he would place it under conditions favourable for repair. (1) In Lesions of the Peripheral Nerves.— Affections have been obsei'ved in the joints of the hand, and more rarely in those of the foot, when one or other of the main nerve trunks has been divided or compressed. The affected joints become swollen and painful, and may afterwards become stiff and deformed. Bony ankylosis has been observed in exceptional cases. (2) In lesions of the sjmuil cord, excepting locomotor ataxia and syringo-myelia, arthro- pathies are very rare indeed. In relation to stab-wounds and crushes of the cord their rarity is probably the result of the rest and immunity from injury of the paralysed limbs. Joint lesions are also very rare in cases of myelitis, progressive