KIDNEY 91 forward by Thayssen is supported by the work of Bornhaiipt, Hamburger, and Herring. The afferent vessels of the glomeruli are derived from interlobular arteries which pass out through the cortex after arising from the renal arterial arches which radiate out between the cortex and medulla. The interlobular arteries also send branches to the capsule, and from their lower part near their origin from the arch a few straight branches to the medulla— arteriolce rectoe verce. The efferent arterioles from glomeruli lying close to the Malpighian pyramids divide up to a slight degree, and form false straight vessels in the medulla— arteriolce j-ectce spuria;. The true straight vessels arise not only in the way above mentioned, but also in part from the concavity of the arches and from adjacent afferent glomerular arterioles. The veins arise from the capillary sources which have been described, and the blood is returned by the venous arches to the renal A^ein, no valves being present in their course. It is important to remember that the renal capsules have a blood-supply from many sources, e.g. the renal artery before its entrance into the hilum, suprarenal, and lumbar branches and interlobular arteries, and that the veins communicate with those of the neighboiu'- ing organs, and partly also with the portal system (Tufhers and Lejars). Lymphatics.—Between the blood-vessels and the convoluted tubules there are freely anasto- mosing lymph spaces, while in the medulla and the medullary rays they are poorly represented. The capsules have a rich lymph-supply. Nerves are derived from the coeliac plexus of the sympathetic, and accompany the vessels at their entrance, some fibres forming a close net- work around the blood-vessels. The modes of termination of these nerves have been the subject of much discussion. Vaso-motor fibres have been traced to the adventitia, and muscular coats of vessels and other fibres to Bowman's capsule, but a connection with the convoluted tubules has not yet been made out with certainty. The connective tissue is sparse in amount, being richest relatively in the pyramids, especially in the papillary zone. Mechanism of Renal Secretion.—A fairly complete account has been given of the structure of the normal kidney, because it is impossible to speak about the probable functions of an organ without an exact knowledge of its structure. Of course one must avoid drawing conclusions as to function from structural arrangements alone as experimental; patho- logical and clinical evidence must all be brought to bear on the subject. Still, and this is especially true of the kidney, the very strongest proofs as to the functions of an organ are often derived from a careful preliminary study of its structural relationships. The observer is struck by the marvellous arrange- ment and character of the blood-vessels and urinary tubules, leading one immediately to surmise that the vascular arrangements in and around the glomerulus must play an important part in the mechanism of renal secretion. The afferent vessel breaks up into a number of fine divisions which offer a large surface for filtration, while the narrowness of the efferent arteriole and the introduction of another set of capillaries all offer high resistance to the blood-flow, so that the blood flowing through the glomerular capillaries must be under comparatively high pressure. Again, the fact that the urinary tubule is directly continuous with the space between Bowman's capsule and the tuft of capillaries is strong proof that the channel is one for collecting material that has been obtained from the capillary blood, the pressure in the circulating blood being considerable, while that in the secreting tubules, if there be no hindrance to outflow of urine, is inappreci- able. The purely mechanical explanation that Ludwig gave of urinary secretion is supported by many well-established data. Lud wig's theory is that a very dilute urine, containing all the constituents, filters through the glomerular capillaries under the influence of blood-pressure, and that the urine subsequently becomes more concentrated on its downward course through the convoluted tubules by diffusion of water from urine to blood. If this view were correct, then every rise or fall in pressure in the glomerular capillaries ought to be succeeded by a corresponding increase or decrease in the amount of urine, and in many cases this is true. If the local blood-pressure fall, as, for example, after stimulation of the renal nerves or mechanical obstruction to the flow of blood through the renal artery, the amount of water secreted becomes correspond- ingly diminished, while a rise in local pressure, such as would result from section of the renal nerves, especially if after this the spinal cord or the splanchnics be stimulated, or if large blood-vessels elsewhere be ligatured, is followed by an increased flow of urine. There are certain facts, however, which make it difficult to accept this view in its entirety, and one is that any obstruction to venous outflow diminishes the amount secreted. This in itself is no argument against the process being one of filti'ation, becaiise in such an organ as the kidney venous congestion results in arterial anaemia : but if in such a case of venous congestion with diminished excretion, nitrates of the alkalies be transfvised through the blood, then immediately there is a great increase in the flow of urine. Svich diuretics may act even when secretion has stopped, and the results cannot be explained satisfactorily by action on a peripheral vaso- motor mechanism. An hydrsemic plethora is very short-lived after injection of these sub-