LEUCOCYTH^MIA 395 irregular, painless, and unaccompanied by periadenitis as a rule, and the swellings do not usually give rise to pressure symptoms. The amount of glandular affection varies extremely in chronic lymphtemia. I had the good fortune aboiit a year ago to have four cases of the kind under observation. Two of them showed general and extreme glandular enlargement with but slight increase of the size of the spleen; one had a fair amount of glandular enlargement with a fairly large spleen; while in the fourth the glands were not enlarged at all, and the spleen reached nearly to the pubes. Yet all these cases showed the typical changes in the blood. The hypertrophy of the bone-marrow cannot be diagnosed clinically, and gives rise to no symptoms. Acute lymphsemia presents a very different clinical picture from the chronic forms. The fever, haemorrhages, and antemia which appear at the end of the chronic cases, usher in the acute ones. The patient passes in a few days from a condition of health to one of extreme prostration, and death usually occurs in from a few days to a few weeks. Curiously enough, the symptoms may be well marked before any im- portant changes occur in the blood, but before death there is usually a very great increase in the lymphocytes and a high degree of ansemia. In the very acute cases thei-e is no time for en- largement of either glands or spleen to take place to any great extent; in those less acute the glands enlarge rapidly, the spleen less markedly. The disease is a rare one, occurs usually in young people, and from its rapid onset and course gives one very much the impression of being an infective condition. Course and Prognosis.—Cases of myelsemia usually live from one to two years from the time they come binder observation, but may live much longer; and chronic lymphaemia may last quite as long. Either class of cases may show remis- sions and exacerbations. The blood may become nearly normal, and the general health improve, or this improvement may occur without any great decrease in the number of leucocytes. Cures have been reported, but all rest either on insufficient evidence or too short a period of ob- servation. As far as we know, the disease is always fatal in the long run. Death is usually preceded by a period of cachexia, and what may be called the normal ending to the disease is by gradual heart failure. Other common causes are by gastro-intestinal symptoms, hfemorrhage into the brain or from mucous membranes, and very frequently by pneumonia. Out of seven fatal cases that I have seen in the last two years four have died of this complication. The acute cases are always fatal, but some- times a case may begin acutely and then become rather more chronic and last for a few months. The prognosis in chronic cases of either variety is of course very grave, but is relatively favour- able when the patient is middle-aged, in fair general health, with a fairly vigorous circulation, little or no ansemia, and no enlargement of lymph glands in the myelsemic form. A large spleen means that a case has so far been chronic and may, presumably, remain so. Unfavourable ele- ments in prognosis are youth in the patient, a steady increase in the nvimber of leucocytes in the blood, advancing anaemia, continued fever, haemorrhages into the skin or large bleedings from the mucous membranes, enlargement of glands in the myelaemic form, dropsy, and of course the presence of any serious complication. Morbid Anatomy.—The naked-eye appear- ances of the organs do not differ greatly in the two forms of the disease. The enlargements of organs which were discovered clinically are con- firmed, and it is usual to find a much more exten- sive enlargement of glands than was expected, especially of the abdominal glands. In addition to splenic and lymphatic enlargement, the liver, kidneys, thymus, thyroid, suprarenals, tonsils, and other organs may show more or less enlarge- ment, with a frequency nearly in this order. This enlargement is due mainly to the infiltra- tion of their connective tissue spaces with leuco- cytes, but partly to the occurrence of infarcts from thrombosis, and haemorrhages, and to fatty infiltration from the antemia which is almost always in existence in fatal cases. The spleen is usually firm, and firmer the more chronic the case. Its capsule is often thickened or rough from local peritonitis. On section it is generally of a uniform red colour; the Mal- pighian bodies are indistinct. Microscopically the pulp is found to be packed with leucocytes like those in the blood, while in chronic cases the trabeculae and stroma generally are often thickened. The lymph glands vary greatly in size from that of a pea to that of a large plum, are gener- ally oval in shape, and white or pink in colour. In cases where they were much congested, how- ever, or where haemorrhage had taken place into them, I have seen them of a dark purple colour. They are usually embedded in fat to a greater or less extent, and show no trace of periadenitis, unless they have been exposed to injury or irritation. On section they are soft or succulent. Microscopically they differ in the two varieties of the disease. In lymphaemia they show no trace of the normal structure of the gland. The distinction between cortex and medulla, germ centres and lymph paths, is completely lost, and one finds simply a mass of lymphocytes packed tightly together and obscuring the stroma, and occasional blood-vessels traversing the mass, and often old or recent haemorrhages. Among these lymphocytes one may find mitotic figures; but one cannot, of course, lay any stress on their presence or absence in the organs of persons dying a natural death whose bodies are not