LABOUR, POST-PARTUM HEMORRHAGE 264 collapse. It must not, however, be thought that, as soon as the patient has rallied, all danger is at an end. The resultant enfeebling of the circulation carries in its train many dangers from which she cannot be regarded as safe for a considerable time. The most common of these is cardiac syncope, coming on at any attempt at exertion. Pulmonary embolism may also occur, due to the detachment of a thrombus whose formation has been favoured by the weak action of the heart. Crural phleg- masife may occur from a like cause, and, as happens in all debilitating conditions of the patient, the natural resistance of the system to septic invasion is so lowered that the risk of infection is greatly increased. In consequence of the tendency to cardiac failure, the patient must not be allowed even to sit up in bed during the first week or so, and all attempts at raising herself must be strictly forbidden. The process of getting up must be a most gradual one, and even after she is able to walk about all sudden or violent exertion must be carefully guarded against. In order to promote her convalescence, the administration of iron in tolerably large doses will be found of considerable benefit. Careful attention to the dietary and the judicious use of stimulants are also matters of, perhaps, vital importance. InjTiries to the Generative Organs during Labour A. Lacerations during Labour— 1. Rupture of the Uterus— Causation . . , . .264 Position of Rent . . . .265 Varieties . . . . .265 Evidences . . . . .265 Diagnosis . . . . .265 Prognosis . . . . .266 Prophylaxis. . . . .266 Treatment . . . . .266 2. Laceration of the Cervix Uteri (Infravaginal portion) . . .267 3. Laceration of the Vagina— Causation . . . . .268 Position of Pent . . . .268 Evidences ..... 268 Dangers ..... 268 Treatment . . . . .268 4. Injuries to the Pelvic Floor— Anatomy ..... 269 Position of Injuries . . .269 Prophylaxis. . . . .269 Treatment 269 5. Injuries to the Perineum— Varieties 270 Causation . . . . .270 Results 271 Pi'ophylaxis . . . . .271 Treatment . . . . .271 6. Injuries to the Pelvic Articula- tions 273 7. Injuries to the External Organs OF Generation— Laceration . . . . .274 Vulva Hcematoma . . .274 B. Injuries the Result of Prolonged Pressure— Sloughing . . . . .274 C. Acute Inversion of Uterus . .275 Although injuries to the genital tract during labour are actually more common in multiparte, they occur more frequently in primiparse when the cause is pelvic obstruction, or rapid labour, for the passages are being dilated for the first time. This is especially the case when the obstruction is in the soft parts, and the " pains " are strong. The consideration of the subject will be discussed under two main heads, viz. :— A. Lacerations and injuries during labour. B. Sloughing, due to crushing or to prolonged pressure during labour. A. Lacerations during Labour 1. Rupture of Uterus.—This accident is said to occur about once in 3000 cases. Causation.-—(a) Predisposing Causes.—Pre- vious operations on the uterus, involving discontinuity of the uterine muscle fibres. Irregularities of the pelvic walls, such as bony ridges on the sacral promontory, near the pectineal eminences or prominent ischial spines. (b) Direct Causes.—(1) Rapid Labour, espe- cially in primiparse. (2) Prolonged, especially obstructed labour, such as occurs with contracted pelves, pelvic tumours, cervical or vaginal constrictions, or where there are foetal malpresentations or de- formities. In obstructed labour, when tonic contraction of the uterus is being produced, the course of events is as follows :— The muscles of the fundal zone and of the uterus are acting vigorously, and the lower zone and cervix, relaxed by the process of polarity, are being drawn up, stretched over the pre- senting part, and getting constantly thinner. Bandl's ring, the lower limit of the retraction area, not felt at all in normal labours, is becom- ing more and more marked, and after a time can be felt some fingers' breadth above the pubes by the external hand. The " pains" gradually lose their intermittency, and a cramp- like continuity of pain is established, and all the local and constitutional evidences of tonic contraction of the uterus, already described in the article on Precipitate and Prolonged Labour, p. 207 et seq., are observed. It is this thinned-out portion of the uterus which may rupture. Under such circumstances, version, or other inappropriate operation, may cause rupture. In such cases ergot greatly increases the risk of rupture, for it tends to cause continuous