LEUCINURIA 392 Leucinuria,.—The presence of leucine in the urine. LeuCObiclStS.—Young leucocytes. See Physiology, Blood {Sources of the Blood Con- stittients). LeuCOCidine.—A poison which can be separated from pus {Denys and Van der Velde). See Suppuration (Circumscribed Abscess). Leucocytes. See Blood (White Cor- puscles, Leucocytes, Physiological and Patho- logical Variations); Immunity (Phagocytosis); Inflammation (Escape of Blood Ccn-pioscles); Leucocytosis ; Physiology, Blood (Characters and Constituents); Uric Acid (Relation of Leuco- cytosis to Uric Acid); Urine, Pathological Changes in (Sediments, Leucocyte Casts). Leucocythsemia. Definition ...... 392 Varieties . . . . . .392 Changes in the Blood— Myelcemia . . . . .392 Lymphmmia . . . . .393 Mixed Forms . . . . .394 Effect of Intercurrent Affections . . 394 Symptoms ..... ^ 394 Course and Prognosis . . . .395 Morbid Anatomy . . . . .395 Causation and Pathology . . .396 Diagnosis ...... 398 Treatment ...... 399 See also Anvemia ; Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth (Haemorrhage into the Labyrinth); Chlorosis (Diagnosis); Leucocytosis ; Oxygen (Uses) ; Purpura (Cachectic); Retina and Optic Nerve (Retinal Haemorrhages, Causes); Status Lymphaticus , Thymus Gland ; X-Rays. Definition.—Leucocythsemia or leukjemia is a disease of the blood and blood-forming organs, in which there is a great increase in the number of leucocytes or white corpuscles present in the blood and an alteration in their characters and relative proportions. The bone-marrow, lymphatic apparatus, and spleen, or any one or more of them may be converted into nurseries for the varieties of leucocytes present in the blood, and in addition collections of these corpuscles may be found in various other organs. These changes may give rise to enlargements of organs. Anaemia, more or less severe, always accompanies the condition, and after a short or long course it almost always terminates fatally. Varieties.—The nomenclature of the varieties of the disease has undergone several changes, and is likely to pass through more in the future. The first cases observed by Hughes Bennett and Virchow, in 1845, were associated with great splenic enlargement; and when Virchow later met with a case in which the lymphatic glands were mainly affected, he distinguished a "splenic"and a "lymphatic" form, according to the organs from which he believed the increased numbers of leucocytes to be derived. Later still, Neumann pointed out that the bone-marrow was also affected in many cases, and a " medullary" form was distinguished. Further research showed that most cases were of a mixed kind, and the terms in use till quite recently were " spleno-medullary" for those cases where the spleen was enlarged and the marrow hypertrophied, and " lymphatic" for those in which enlargement of lymphatic glands was the principal feature. Ehrlich's studies on the varieties of leucocytes, as determined by their staining reactions, gave a fresh impetus to the investigation of the blood in these con- ditions, and the tendency at the present day is to classify cases entirely according to the varieties of leucocytes present in excess in the blood, without reference to the enlargements of organs. The names of "myeltemia" or " myelocythsemia" and of "lymphsemia" or " lymphocythfemia" are often used to express respectively the varieties in which the cells in the blood resemble those normally found in the bone-marrow, of which the myelocytes are specially characteristic, and those found in the lymph-glands, the lymphocytes. If, however, we accept the view of Lowit, recently put forward, that both conditions are due to a blood-parasite, we are desired by him to use for the former condition the term "polymor- phocytic leukaemia," for the latter " homoiocytic leukaemia," cumbrous terms which are not likely to be accepted. I shall use in this article " myelaemia " and " lymphaemia " for the two varieties, as they are short terms and sufficiently accurate, but do not commit us to the acceptance of any theory as to the causation of the disease. Changes in the Blood.—When the ear is pricked the blood very often shows no special naked-eye change; it may look opaque, how- ever, or may be pale if there is great anaemia, but it does not look pink unless the increase in leucocytes is very great indeed. When a fresh specimen is examined the leucocytes are seen to be greatly increased in number; but it is, of course, impossible to distinguish it from a leucocytosis until counts have been made and stained films examined, unless the specimen is examined on a warm stage, when the great majority of cells in leucocytosis will be found to be amoeboid, while in leucocythaemia of either variety most cells are non-amoeboid. Myelcemia.—There is a greater actual increase in the number of leucocytes than in any other condition. Cases have often been recorded with 1,000,000 per cubic millimetre, and the average is about 400,000. The actual number varies greatly, however, from day to day, and even from hour to hour, and in exceptional