LAKYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS 330 variation from the normal, should be attended to (see " Nose "). When the principal cause is found—possibly by a process of elimination— to be in the larynx itself, it will generally be discovered that the laryngitis is attributable to faulty use of the voice. It is more misuse than over-use which is responsible for chronic laryngitis, and in many cases it will be found necessary to see that the patient acquires a proper method of voice-production and singing. In most cases, however, treatment should gener- ally begin by rest to the affected parts, and this is only secured by strict silence. For those to whom this is an impossibility all shouting, public speaking in the open air, lecturing in close, crowded, dusty, or stuffy rooms should certainly be avoided, and the use of the voice limited to the bare necessities of the patient's surroundings. It is so seldom that the necessities for talking imposed by the ordinary duties of life allow of strict silence, that, for those who can afford it, it is doubtless wiser to go away for a change. Besides, there can be no more natural healer for a chronically inflamed larynx than pure air. Any country air is doubtless better than the air of cities; but general experience has shown that the high, dry air of moiintains is apt to be too irritating, and that for an inflamed larynx it is better to choose milder and softer climates, such as those of Madeira, Palermo, Pisa, or the south-westerly coasts of our own shores. There is some difference of opinion, and also of idiosyncrasy, with regard to sea air; but it is fairly certain that strong winds are prejudicial, and that the shelter from them afforded by woods—especially pine woods—is a distinct desirability. When there is much mucus about the larynx any local treatment should be preceded by a cleansing alkaline spray, such as bicarbonate of soda, borax, salt, either alone or in combina- tion with one another, or with chlorate of potash, salicylate of soda, sugar, etc. By some it is recommended that these sprays should be used warm; but Moritz Schmidt points out that warm sprays to the nose and throat for chronic conditions only lead to further passive congestion and foster catarrh, whereas the cold spray is not only harmless but much more bracing and stimulating. These sprays may be rendered more soothing where there is cough or discomfort, by the addition of a small quantity of cocaine. In the strength of one grain to the ounce there is no risk in placing it in the hands of a patient, or fear of its starting the cocaine habit. Antipyrine (grs. v. to the ounce) or carbolic acid (grs. ii. to the ounce) also have a sedative action, and if the sprays are made up with fresh peppermint water they are rendered both more pleasant, more soothing, and more antiseptic. A stimulant effect can be produced by the addition of menthol (gr. i.), eucalyptus, oleum gaultherium, oil of cassia, or pine oil. Or any of these oils can be sprayed into the larynx when made up with a basis of liquid vaseline (paroleine, alboleine, cimoline, etc.). These oily sprays have to a large extent super- seded the steam inhalations which were formerly employed for carrying the essential oils into the air-passages. It may be found necessary to make use of astringents in inveterate cases of chronic laryn- gitis. This is best done in the form of laryngeal sprays, to which are added one or other of the following:—Nitrate of silver (grs. ii. to v.), sul- phate of zinc (grs. v. to x.), chloride of zinc (grs. ii. to vi.), perchloride of iron (grs. iii.), sulphate of copper (grs. iii. to x.) to the ounce. Massei recommends a 2 per cent spray of lactic acid. If the secretion is thick and tenacious, it may be loosened by pastilles of chloride of ammonia and benzoic acid. Astringents may be employed in the form of powders insufflated into the larynx, but as they are quickly expelled it is doubtful if their action is ever other than that of a stimulant. Gargles need only be mentioned to be con- demned as useless. The laryngeal brush is seldom nowadays re- sorted to. In a large number of cases, even when applied with the greatest skill, it produces such an amount of spasm and local reaction, and runs such a risk—from movement on the part of the patient—of local traumatism, that the draw- backs attendant on its use far outweigh the benefits to be derived from it. If cocaine is required before each application the disadvan- tages of the cocaine may counterbalance the medicinal advantages of the pigment. It may be required in some inveterate cases, and then we generally make use of nitrate of silver, beginning with a solution of the strength of 10 grains to the ounce and increasing it gradually, according to the local reaction produced, up- wards, till a strength of 100 grains to the ounce is reached. It has been recommended that the application should be made daily, but there are few cases in which an application once a week is not sufficient. The frequency must be proportionate to the local condition and to the reaction produced. In milder cases, chloride of zinc may be used in solutions of the strength of 20 or 30 grains to the ounce. It has been advised to treat any varicosity in the vocal cords by applications of fused chromic acid, and Krause recommends in chronic cases minute longitudinal incisions into the cords with a suitable laryngeal lancet. Such dangerous pro- ceedings are imcalled for, and it is seldom that milder measures will not secure better results. Finally, many cases of chronic laryngitis can be greatly relieved, in persons who can afford it, by a suitable change of climate, and particularly