IRIS AND CILIARY BODY 46 ' Ste also " Eyeball, Injuries of," vol. iii. so pushed forward after the escaj^e of the aqueous that they are sure to be wounded at the time of the fresh incision. (3) When tlae incision is made in the sclerotic there may be considerable haemorrhage into the anterior chamber either before or after the excision of the iris. The blood can usually be made to flow out by depressing the upper lip of the wound with the curette. When the excision of the iris is completed no anxiety need be felt on account of the presence of a moderate amount of blood in the anterior chamber, as it usually becomes absorbed in a few days. Iridotomy consists in the formation of an artificial pupil by simple incision of the iris. It can only be safely adopted when the lens is absent, and is mostly applied to those cases in which the iris has become tightly drawn upwards towards the cicatrix, as the result of inflammation after cataract extraction. The eyelids being separated and the globe steadied, as in the previous operations, a small keratome is passed through the upper part of the cornea about 2 mm. from the sclero-corneal junction ; it is then pushed onwards through the membranous exudation to the back of the iris, and finally withdrawn. The iridotomy scissors with closed blades are now passed through the corneal wound. When they reach the iris one blade is passed behind and the other in front of that structure, which is now divided by a single snip from above downwards. In some cases it is necessary to make a second incision at an acute angle with the first, so as to include a V-shaped piece of iris, which can either be left to atrophy or removed. Tumours of the Iris and Ciliary Body.— Primary sarcoma of the iris is very rare. About half of the recorded cases are melanotic. The diagnosis of the leucotic variety from tubercle is impossible; the melanotic form may be mistaken for melanoma, which, however, is stationary and non - vascular. Metastasis is common. The eye should be enucleated as early as possible. Primary sarcoma of the ciliary body is even more rare. Primary Carcinoma of the Ciliary Body.—A few cases of this disease have been recorded. The cells are pigmented, and are probably derived from the ciliary glands. Tubercle and gumma of the iris and ciliary body are described under inflammatory condi- tions. Cases of melanoma and na;vus of the iris have been recorded. Cysts of the iris are of three varieties, all of which are rare. (1) Epithelial Cysts.—These are probably always implantation cysts, in some case a hair, in others corneal epithelium, being carried by a perforating injury into the iridic stroma. They arc lined by squamous epithelium and contain epithelial debris. They appear some months or even years after the injury, grow slowly, press on the cornea, producing opacity, and encroach on the pupil, causing loss of sight. Ultimately they may set up glaucoma. When small they should be removed by an iridectomy. If not seen till late, enucleation or evisceration may be necessary. (2) Se7'ous cysts diff"er pathologically from epithelial cysts, though their mode of origin is not definitely known. Some suppose that they are formed from the crypts on the anterior surface of the iris, the outlets being occluded by chronic inflammatory exudation; others con- sider their formation to be secondary to the formation of synechise. Microscopically they are lined by a single layer of epithelium. Their course, symptoms, and treatment are similar to those of epithelial cysts. (3) Cysts have been described as occurring between the two layers of tlie uvea. Iritis usually supervenes. Injuries to the Iris and Ciliary Body.^— Severe contusion of the eyeball without perfora- tion may injure the iris in several ways. Rup- ture of a blood-vessel may be the result of the blow. This is characterised by the presence of blood in the anterior chamber (hyphsema). The eye must be carefully examined for other lesions of the iris and of other structures, but it may be necessary to wait till the blood has become absorbed. Should other lesions be absent the prognosis is good, and the blood will be absorbed in a few days. The eye should be kept at rest by atropine and a shade, and no reading should be attempted. Very rarely iritis supervenes. Traumatic mydriasis is probably always due to some laceration of the iris, and is conse- quently usually accompanied by hyphsema. The laceration is radial, and may only implicate the pupillary border, being often so minute as to require high magnification before it can be seen. Paralysis of the sphincter pupillse, irido- 2ilegia, results. Combined with it may be paralysis of accommodation, cycloplegia. Irido- plegia may occur without cycloplegia, but traumatic ciliary paralysis alone is rare. The treatment consists in rest in bed and the application of cold. Atropine should not be used unless iritis, which is very uncommon, is threatened. Later, pilocarpine is indicated. The prognosis must be guarded, as the condition is often permanent. Irido-dialysis, or detachment of the iris from the ciliary body, is usually only partial. The ciliary portion of the iris is its weakest part, and consequently is subjected to the greatest strain when the cornea is flattened by a blow. Hypha;ma is always present, and, if severe, may hide the detachment. The circulus arteriosus iridis major is probably ruptured, together with