142 KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF attained maturity. If they are causing suffering they are easily removed; a vertical incision is made through the soft parts, and the neck of the tumour is cut through with a stout chisel. Cystic tumours in the interior of the femur or tibia, of the nature of liquefied chondromata, endotheliomata, or myeloid sarcomata, are of very rare occurrence. iSarcoma of the bones in the region of the knee-joint are comparatively common, especially in children and young adults ; their general characters have been already described with the " Diseases of Bone," in vol. i. We may again refer to the great difficulty of diagnosis when they are met with at an early stage, before the tumour element has been a prominent feature, and before the advent of such pathognomonic symptoms as egg-shell crackling, spontaneous fracture, and infection of the overlying soft parts. Most difficulty is met with in relation to tumowis of the louver end of the femur, which sometimes resemble the chronic and especially the tuberculous forms of joint disease ; the differential diagnosis has been already discussed imder this head. Sarcoma of the upper end of the tibia is nearly always of the central variety; it is less likely to be mistaken for disease of the knee-joint than for other chronic lesions of the upper end of the bone, e.g. tubercle, giunma, Brodie's abscess, hydatid, etc. Sarcoma of the upper eml of the fibula is of the periosteal type, and appears clinically as a rounded or flattened elastic swelling, practically free from pain or tenderness; the cutaneous veins are increased in number and size over the tumour; the movements of the knee-joint are intact, and the patient is quite able to walk or run about. When the knee is flexed, the tumour may be felt to project towards the popliteal space. A tuberculous mass commencing to liquefy into a cold abscess is the only lesion which at all resembles it. The treatment applicable to sarcomata in the region of the knee has been described in the general article on " Diseases of Bone," in vol. i. Hydatids.—The ends of the bones forming the knee-joint are among those most frequently affected with this rare disease; the clinical features resemble those of the more slowly- growing central sarcomata, e.g. deep-seated pains and enlargement of the bone. The swell- ing may be firm and elastic, or may exhibit egg-shell crackling ; spontaneous fracture and suppuration are likely complications. Treatment consists in making an extensive opening into the bone and clearing out the cysts from its interior; the cavity is then stuffed or drained. The eradication of the parasite must be thorough or the disease is liable to relapse. 17. Faralysis of Muscles acting on the Knee- Joint and Paralytic Contracture.— Peripheral paralysis from injury or disease of the individual nerves, e.g. the anterior crviral, the great sciatic, are extremely rare. When the extensor group of muscles is paralysed the disability is con- siderable, as the patient is unable to bear any weight on the limb except in the position of complete extension. In infantile paralysis involving the lower extremity, the knee-joint may be so vmstable and wobbly that the patient may be unable to walk without the assistance of a crutch; artificial ankylosis of the joint is the most satisfactory treatment. As a rule the paralysis is followed by the contraction of certain groups of muscles and by deformity, of the kind usually called paralytic contracture ; the knee is usually flexed, and although the patient may be able to increase the amount of flexion, he is unable to extend the knee. Along with the flexion there may be a variable amount of genu valgum and inversion of the thigh, especially in patients who have walked with a crutch. The disability is usually aggravated by the addition of paralytic con- tracture deformity at the ankle. As regards treatment, while a good deal of improvement may follow upon division of the shortened structures and correction of the deformity, arthrodesis of the knee in the extended position yields the best results in the majority of cases. Paralytic genu recurvatum is a rare but very unsightly deformity resulting from infantile paralysis when it chiefly involves the extensor muscles of the thigh; the deformity is the result of the patient using the limb so as to compensate for the muscular weakness. In taking a step forwards, he swings the leg forwards so that when the foot touches the ground the knee is hyperextended, this being the only position in which he is able to bear his weight on the limb without the knee suddenly giving way under him. The hyperextension becomes more and more pronounced as the ligaments and other structures in the ham gradually yield and stretch. The treatment consists either in fixing the knee-joint by a suitable apparatus or in perform- ing arthrodesis. Knee-Joint, Injuries of. Injuries Sprains . . . . . • .143 Bruises ....... 143 Wounds 144 Gunshot Wounds 144 Fractures in Vicinity of Knee-Joint Lower End ok Femur . . . .145 Tibia below Tuberosities . . .145 From Compression of Tibia through its Articular Surface. . . .145 Upper End of Fibula . . . .146 Patella 146 Spontaneous Fractures . . .147