489 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES Perihepatitis, the result of general peritonitis, is dealt with under " Peritonitis," and is not considered in detail in this article. Anatomy.—The peritoneum envelops the liver in a closely-fitting covering, everywhere present except between the layers of the coronary ligament, where the gall-bladder touches the liver, and at the transverse fissure. The peritoneal reflections connecting the liver with the parietes and other viscera are arranged in three groups. (1) The suspensory or falciform ligament slings the liver to the abdominal wall and the under surface of the diaphragm ; in the foetus the umbilical vein finds its way along the falci- form ligament, but after birth the vein is obliterated and remains as the round ligament of the liver. (2) The coronary ligament passes from the under surface of the diaphragm to the postero- superior aspect of the liver. A space is left between the two reflections forming it, which gives passage to the inferior vena cava and the lymphatics from the upper surface of the liver. At either end of the liver the two layers forming the coronary ligament approach each other and constitute the right and left lateral ligaments. (3) The lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum passes from the stomach to the under surface of the liver in the neighbourhood of the trans- verse fissure ; the lesser omentum gives passage to the portal vein, the hepatic artery, the ductis communis choledochius, and the lym- phatics from the under surface of the liver. The peritoneum of both sacs touch the liver— the greater covering the upper surface wholly and the right side of the under surface as far as the antero-posterior fissure; to the left of the fissure the lesser sac of the peritoneum covers the under surface of the liver. The Relations, of the Liver.—The posterior and antero-superior aspects of the liver are in contact with the diaphragm for the most part, and only at the left anterior portion does the liver touch the abdominal parietes, in the region of the epigastrium. The under surface of the right lobe is in direct relation with the hepatic flexure of the colon, with the duodenum at the junction of its first and second portion, and with the right kidney in the order given from before backwards. On the under surface of the left lobe the liver overlaps the stomach. The gall-bladder occupies a groove on the under surface of the liver half-way along its anterior border. The gall-bladder diff'ers from all the other structures in relation with the liver inas- much as the peritoneum does not intervene between them. Varieties.—Primary perihepatitis is by many authorities considered to have no place in the category of disease. It is frequently considered under the heading of hepatitis, or as part of the natural sequelae of hepatic lesions generally, or as a part of general peritonitis only. Perihepa- titis is, however, of considerable clinical import- ance, possessing both beneficial and deleterious properties suflBcient to justify its position as a definite ailment. Secondary perihepatitis, also, is too often con- sidered of no clinical or pathological moment; its symptomatology is neglected and its sequelae held of but little or no account. This neglect is not justified, for whether in its clinical indi- cations or in its beneficial or pathological effects on the economy, secondary perihepatitis is of considerable moment. General perihepatitis is the term employed when the serous covering of the liver is universally implicated. It is usually simply a part of general peritonitis, and seldom occurs as an isolated lesion. Local or p)atchy perihepatitis signifies a limited inflammatory affection of the serous covering of the liver. The extent of the area may amount to a small patch only, but, on the other hand, it may approach universality. Local perihepatitis may consist of a circum- scribed patch of recent inflammatory exudation, as occurs in hepatic abscess where the pus, as it gains the surface of the liver, causes effusion of lymph. Perihepatitis arising in conjunction with pericarditis, pleurisy, fractured ribs, or surgical operations, is usually met with on the antero-superior aspect of the liver. In ulcer of the stomach, in malignant disease and inflammation of the stomach, duodenum, colon, pancreas, gall-bladder and bile ducts, kidney, etc., perihepatitis will occur at the part of the hepatic peritoneum in most direct apposition with the diseased organ. In cirrhosis of the liver, perihepatitis may be well-nigh universal; in syphilis, two or three large patches are the rule ; in cancerous and tuberculous infiltrations recent lymph may be present, but more fre- quently numerous ill-developed, fibrous adhe- sions pass from the apices of the various nodules to the parietal peritoneum or to the peritoneum covering adjacent viscera. In every hepatic abnormality involving the surface or capsule (fibrous) of the liver, perihepatitis is the rule and not the exception. Induced Perihepatitis.—Attempts are some- times made to induce perihepatitis by applica- tions of counter-irritants to the abdominal wall over the region of the liver. The object of this practice in threatening abscess of the liver is to provide a safe path by which the pus may reach the surface. Perihepatitis is also induced in cases of hydatids or liver abscess, etc., by the surgeon cutting down upon and exposing the liver, and if necessary stitching the visceral and parietal surfaces of the peritoneum together. In many cases of cirrhosis of the liver where the hepatic and parietal layers of the adjacent surfaces are made to adhere, a channel would be provided along which blood-vessels could