KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF 131 under rest; one is then able to feel ill-defined cords or tufts or nodular masses, and in the suprapatellar pouch one may be able to grasp these between the fingers. There is none of the diffuse thickening of the synovial membrane which is so characteristic of white swelling, there is little wasting of muscles, and it is quite exceptional to observe any symptoms of implication of the articular surfaces or the formation of a cold abscess. On opening the joint there may escape similar fluid and fibrinous bodies to those described ixnder hydrops. With the finger one may feel that the upper pouch is occupied by fringes, or polypoidal processes, or tumour-like masses derived from the synovial membrane ; they are easily scraped away with the spoon or finger-nail; the articular cartilage is usually normal, but it may be fibrillated as in arthritis deformans. The diagnosis is to be made from arthritis deformans, and in certain cases from loose body of other than tuberculous origin; it is not usually made with certainty luitil the joint is opened. The treatment specially applicable to this type of tuberculous disease is to perform a partial arthrectomy, and remove the whole of the synovial membrane which is affected; in exceptional cases, and especially those in which there are also foci in the bones, it is better to perform the more radical operation of excision. 3. Cold abscess or empyema of the knee has been specially observed by Konig and others, and its outstanding feature is the accumulation of pus in the joint. It is analogous to the purulent type of peritoneal tuberculosis; its clinical features resemble those of tuberculous hydrops so closely that the differential diagnosis is rarely completed until the fluid in the joint is withdrawn by means of a trocar and cannula. It is usually the result of a primary tuberculosis of the synovial membrane. It may be met with in patients who are up in years as well as in childhood and youth, more often in those who are much reduced in health, and who are the subjects of tuberculous lesions elsewhere. Its development is insidious, often without the phenomena of inflammation, and its progress is chronic. Like hydrops, it is most often met with in the knee; it is less favourable from the point of view of prognosis, because the patients affected are usually those of feeble resisting powers and the subjects of tuberculous disease elsewhere. Rovsing has described an acute form of tuberculous empyema which begins suddenly in very young and apparently healthy children; the joint rapidly swells, becomes sensitive, and the child is feverish. It is liable to be mistaken for the " acute arthritis" of infants, because evacuation of the pus by a simple incision usually brings about recovery with complete restoration of function. The synovial membrane, if examined, shows miliary tuberculosis. 4. Diffuse Frimary Disease of the Synovial Membrane. Synovial Fungus. White Swelling. —This may follow upon the hydrops and other preceding types of tuberculous disease of the knee, or it may commence as such. When the disease is still limited to the synovial membrane the chief complaint is of the swelling in the region of the joint. The appearance of the swelling is eminently characteristic; in contrast to hydrops, in which it is most marked in the upper pouch, it is here most marked in the vicinity of the tibio-femoral junction and on either side of the patella; it gradually tapers off above and below, so that the swelling is more or less spindle-shaped or fusiform. As a result of the thickening of the lateral pouch of the synovial membrane the condyles of the femur may appear to be enlarged, and on super- ficial examination one is very apt to think that the bone is affected. The patient at this stage may limp slightly and keep the joint a little flexed, and may complain of tiredness and stiffness, especially at night after exertion. The movements of the joint, although restricted, are remarkably natural and easy. The wasting of the muscles in front of the thigh makes the swelling of the joint appear greater than it really is. When the disease has involved the articular sm-faces, and led to partial destruction or " ulceration" of the cartilages, the disease assumes an aspect which is much more serious. The previous mobility diminishes and is soon entirely lost; this rigidity of the joint is seldom so absolute as that observed in hip disease; like it, however, it is chiefly due to the involuntary contraction of muscles, and it disappears under anaesthesia. There is much more complaint of pain, which is readily excited by any jar or attempt at movement, and there are usually "startings" at night. If no treatment is adopted the knee becomes more flexed, usually to a right angle, the leg and foot are rotated outwards, and in young patients the tibia is gradually displaced backwards. The wasting of the muscles becomes more pronounced. The synovial swelling is not only greater in amount, but it often becomes more boggy in consistence and is hot to the touch. In addition to the deformity just mentioned there may be a certain amount of genu valgum, especially if the patient has continued to put the affected limb to the ground; under the same conditions the pelvis may be depressed on the diseased side with apparent lengthening of the limb. The formation of cold abscess will be referred to later. 5. Frimary Tuhercidous Disease in the Bones forming the Knee-Joint.—It is usually impossible to recognise osseous foci in the vicinity of the knee so long as they are confined to the interior