506 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES either to adhesions having taken place or to an effusion of lymph between the opposite peritoneal surfaces. If the abscess is allowed to advance without operation the friction area gradually extends, and the central non-frictional patch in- creases pari passu until it attains a diameter of several inches. This observation is of great practical importance, for it indicates the exact locality where the abscess may be opened or tapped with safety. The writer has availed himself of this observation in all operations for hepatic abscesses which develop forwards; and he has been able to prove, by post-mortem observations, that it is safe to cut into or to push a trocar and cannula into the central non-fric- tional area without fear of peritoneal extravasa- tion even when no adhesions had formed, but when merely flocculent and unorganised lymph existed. A liver abscess, however, of considerable size may be present deep in the parenchyma of the liver, and give rise to no evidence of a tumour, nor of perihepatitis, nor any other sign of local hepatic trouble whatever. In such cases the constitutional symptoms may alone serve to suggest the presence of pus in the liver. Pain.—In the early stages, when suppuration develops after hepatitis, the pain peculiar to hepatic inflammation is to be expected; but as the abscess develops the hepatitis subsides, and pain may practically completely disappear. There may be a couple of pints of pus present in the liver, and the patient suff'er no pain there- from. This disappearance of pain often leads the doctor astray, and the patient, being free of the pain (and it may be the feverishness), refuses to be operated upon. This is one of the commonest sources of fallacy in the treatment of liver abscess, and the possibility of the occur- rence should never be lost sight of. Pain, however, may never have formed any part in the initial symptoms. In a liver abscess arising some months subsequent to an attack of dysentery, the suppuration, if deeply seated, may proceed independently of hepatitis, and without pain. The pain when present may be acute, or it may amount to discomfort merely, the varia- tion in severity depending upon the part of the liver which has suppurated. The nearer the pus is to the surface of the organ the greater will the pain be, and vice versd. The paren- chyma of the liver is scarcely, if at all, suscep- tible to pain—a fact which is well illustrated when aspirating the liver without an ansesthetic. When the needle of the aspirator reaches the liver tissue in such circumstances, the organ can be traversed in various directions without elicit- ing any degree of pain; and it is only when the cutaneous structures or when the diaphragm is punctured that acute pain is complained of. It is perihepatitis, and not hepatitis, which causes pain in the region of the liver. It is plain, therefore, that pain may usher in hepatic suppuration, may then completely sub side, only to appear again when the abscess advances to the surface of the liver, causing perihepatitis; on the other hand, pain may not play a part in the original onset of the disease, and may be deferred until the sur- roundings of the liver are aff'ected. Pain when present may amount to mere dis- comfort, felt mostly when the patient turns upon the left side — the increased weight of the liver causing dragging pains in the right hypochondrium. The heart's action also is impeded by the same posture. When more acute, the pain may give rise to a stabbing feeling in the intercostal spaces overlying the liver. The right shoulder may be, and very frequently is, the seat of a constant aching and irritating pain. The situation of the shoulder pain varies with the part of the environment of the liver involved; it is chiefly when the diaphragm, and consequently the phrenic nerves, are irritated, that the pain is felt in the shoulder. The explanation of the pain is found in the connection between the radicles of the phrenic nerve in the neck and the descending branches of the superficial cervical plexus. When the liver is merely congested or "heavy" with pus, the sensation felt in the shoulder is visually of a dragging nature and may be mistaken for " rheumatic" pains. The vertebral border of the scapula is then the part complained of; but when subdiaphragmatic perihepatitis develops, the pain is often of a burning character, and situated just within the angle formed between the clavicle and the acromion process of the scapula. The patient may be able to exactly localise the pain, and can place the finger on the precise spot; but occasionally the pain is diffuse, and its limits are conveyed by the patient placing the whole hand on the top of the shoulder. The presence or absence of pain in the shoulder is no aid to diagnosis of the presence or absence of pus in the liver. It merely in- dicates a perihepatitis; but the cause of the lesion may be other than a purulent collection. The Effect upon other Viscera.—-An abscess in the liver may involve neighbouring viscera and structures. The particular issues affected de- pend upon the course the pus follows. When the pus burrows towards the dome of the liver the diaphragm and the structures adjacent on its thoracic aspect will be implicated. Pleurisy is common, and the friction sounds of the in- flamed pleura will obscure the friction sounds due to pei-ihepatitis. Tlie two layers of the basal pleura will be cemented by lymph, and the adjacent surface of the lung sympathises in the inflammatory change. The hmg at its base becomes congested or pneumonic. These changes are due in part to the arrest in thoracic movement over the seat of the inflammation and pain. Abdominal breathing gives place