KNOCK-KNEE 153 Knock-Knee. See Deformities {Genu Valgum); Hip-Joint, Injuries of {Coxa Vara, Results). Knots. See Clove Hitch ; Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta and Cord {Knots on Co^-d); Reef Knot ; Staffordshire Knot ; etc. Koch Treatment.—The use of tuber- culin in the treatment of tuberculosis. Kocher'S Method.—A plan for the re- duction of a dislocated shoulder. See Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of {Dislocations, Treat- ment). Kocher'S Operation.—An operation for the radical cure of inguinal hernia {see Hernia, Radical Cure); also an operation for carcinoma of the tongue {see Tongue, Carcinoma, Treatment). Koenig^'S Rods. See Auditory Nerve AND Labyrinth {Localisation of seat of Lesion producing Nerve-Deafness). Koilonychia. — Spoon-nails, nails con- cave on the surface. See Nails, Affections of the {Alterations in Curvature). Kola Nut.—The fruit of Sterculia acu- minata, known also as gourou, kokkorokou, or bissy-bissy; a native of the West Coast of Africa ; used as a digestive tonic, in diarrhoea, and in heart disease. KolpO. See CoLPO. Konrib^.—An African arrow poison, made from strophanthus {q.v.). Kopftetan us.—A special form of trau- matic tetanus in which the facial nerve is involved, causing facial paralysis in addition to trismus; cephalic tetanus. See Tetanus {Clinical Features). Koplik'S Spots.—Red spots with bluish centres sometimes seen on the mucous membrane of the cheeks and lips before the cutaneous eruption of measles appears. See Measles {Symptoms). Korsakoff's Syndrome.—A com- bination of symptoms, or Symptom-complex, met with sometimes in chronic alcoholics in which there is loss of memory, " pseudo-reminiscences " (such as stories of people seen or journeys undertaken),and occasionally peripheral neuritis; psychosis polyneuritica. KotSChenOWa. See Balneology {RussicL). Koumiss.—Fermented mare's milk (lactic and vinous fermentation), easily digested in weak states (convalescence) and useful in phthisis. See Diet {Milk and its Products) ; Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Treatment, Diet); Infant Feeding {Milk Preparations, Koumiss); Invalid Feeding {Koumiss); Milk {Therapeutic, Koumiss or Kumys), KOUSSO.—Also known as Cusso; is obtained from the dried flowers of Brayera anthelmintica. It contains a neutral principle called Koussin, and tannic acid. Dose—5. It is used as an anthelmintic for all kinds of tapeworm, administered in the form of an in- fusion. It is rarely prescribed in this country. Kra-Kra. See Craw-Craw. Kramerise Radix. — Rhatany Root. The dried root of Krameria triandra. It con- tains Rhatanhia-tannic acid, to which it owes its astringent properties. Preparations — 1. Tinctura Kramerise. Dose—^-1 3. 2. Liquor KramerifB Concentratus. Dose—^-1 3. 3. In- fusum Kramerise. Dose—J-1 5. 4. Extractum Kramerise. Dose — 5-15 grs. 5. Trochiscus Kramerise. 1 gr. of the extract in each. 6. Trochiscus Kramerise et Cocainae. 1 gr. of the extract and 2V E^- hydrochloride of cocaine in each. The extract is added to tooth powders as an astringent when the gums have a tendency to bleed readily. The powdered root may be in- sufilated to check epistaxis. The trochisci are employed in relaxed conditions of the throat, and the infusion can be used as a gargle for the same purpose. Internally, krameria is ad- ministered as an astringent for the purpose of checking diarrhoea. It is of no value as a remote haemostatic. Kraske's Operation. See Rectum, Diseases of {Cancer, Treatment, Excision of Rectum). Kraurosis.—An atrophic condition affect- ing the vulva characterised by drying and shrivelling (/cpaSpos, dry) of the parts, with pain in and irritation of them. See Vulva, Diseases of {Kraurosis Vulvce). Krause, Glands of. See Lachrymal Apparatus {Anatomy). Kreatin and Kreatinin. See Creatin, Kresamine.—An antiseptic preparation containing trikresol and ethylendiamin (25 per cent of each) ; it has been used in skin diseases (as solution per cent) or ointment). Kresol. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Aromatic Substances). Kreuznach. See Balneology {Ger- many) ; Mineral Waters {Muriated Waters containing Bromine and Iodine).