LIVER, DISEASES OF 459 early symptom of cirrhosis, and is often the first indication and warning of grave disease that the patient receives. But it may occur late in the disease, and even prove fatal when there is ascites. For the diagnosis of hsematemesis from different causes the reader is referred to the article " Hsematemesis " in vol. iv. p. 16. The treatment of haematemesis is absolute rest to the stomach and perfect repose in bed. A hypodermic injection of morphia is often useful in keeping the patient quiet. Feeding should be carried on by the bowel, suppositories being given every four hours, and five or six injections of 10 ounces of water in the twenty-four hours to relieve thirst. After three or fours days, if there is no recurrence of haemorrhage, beef-tea and peptonised milk can be given by the mouth. On the second or third day, if there is no recurrence of haema- temesis, a blue pill and a saline purge should be given to remove the blood from the in- testines. Recurrence of haematemesis should be treated by return to rectal feeding, and by the ad- ministration by the mouth of a drachm of Ruspini's styptic (which is largely composed of gallic acid) in 1 ounce of water. Melwna, besides being due to gastric haemorrhage, may be due to similar oozing from the surface of the mucous membrane of the bowel. A certain amount of blood may be mixed with the faeces as the result of small haemor- rhages, analogous to those seen in the skin, and due to hepatic insufficiency. Piles are not infrequent in cirrhosis, and may give rise to haemorrhage. Epistaxis often occurs in the course of cirrhosis; it may pass backwards and simulate haemoptysis. Like the small haemorrhages into the skin, epistaxis is due to a toxaemic condi- tion of the blood brought about by hepatic insufficiency; the poisons produced in the alimentary canal not being stopped by the liver, pass into the general circulation. Oozing from the gums is due to the same cause. Blood may be hawked from the back of the throat and be thought to have come from the lungs. Occasionally, bleeding occurs from the larynx. Haemoptysis may be due to pulmonary tuberculosis, which is a well-recognised com- plication of cirrhosis; collapse of the bases of the lung, due to compression by ascites or by a pleural effusion, may also cause haemoptysis. In the early stages of cirrhosis in women metrorrhagia is often seen; later there is generally amenorrhoea. Jaundice.—An attack of catarrhal jaundice may occur during cirrhosis; but continued or deep jaundice is very rare, and the black jaundice of malignant disease is never reached. A terminal jaundice, due to acute degenerative changes in the liver-cells, is sometimes seen. A slight degree of icterus is, however, often seen, the conjunctivae being tinged with light yellow for a time instead of their habitual dirty hue. Nervous Symptoms.—In the late stages a toxaemic condition analogous to uraemia sets in, and the patients usually become drowsy, apathetic, and comatose; but sometimes there is delirium, which may be so active that there is considerable trouble in keeping the patient in bed. When drowsy and quiet the patient becomes careless, passes his motions under him, and it may be diflicult to keep the skin of the back intact and prevent the onset of bed-sores. Cases have been described where children have presented symptoms like the juvenile type of general paralysis during life, with entire latency of advanced cirrhosis of the liver. The symptoms due to a toxaemic condition of the blood chiefly affect the brain, but slight degrees of peripheral neuritis are probably often over- looked. ComjMcations.—As has already been pointed out, pulmonary tuberculosis is often met with in the bodies of those dying from cirrhosis; often there are no clinical signs of the tubercle, but its presence should be suspected when there is fever without any satisfactory cause. Some- times the progress of pulmonary tuberculosis is so rapid and emphatic that it throws into the shade the existence of cirrhosis, which is only revealed at the post-mortem. Pulmonary tubercle and alcoholic neuritis may be found as concomitant complications in cirrhosis, especially in women. Pulmonary tuberculosis is less often seen in children with cirrhosis than in adults with the disease, probably because alcoholism is less frequent in children. Right-sided pleurisy frequently complicates cirrhosis ; it has been suggested that infection may spread through the diaphragm. It should be remembered that considerable dulness at the base of the right lung may be due to a large cirrhotic liver, or to upward displacement of the liver by abdominal distension without any pleural effusion. In rare instances pleural effusions in cirrhosis are haemorrhagic; this is due to tubercle. Tuberculous peritonitis is another complica- tion that is especially liable to occur in the course of cirrhosis, and it may very easily escape detection, the effusion being naturally regarded as that due to cirrhosis. A number of acute infections may occiir, such as erysipelas, pericarditis, pneumonia, infective endocarditis, and especially peritonitis. When an acute infection attacks the liver itself icterus gravis results from the acute de- generative changes induced in the liver-cells. Thrombosis of the portal vein shows itself by the rapid development of ascites ; if the clotting