LIVER, DISEASES OF 482 ally may suppurate as the result of infection. In secondary squauious-celled carcinoma, cysts containing clear fluid have been seen. All three forms of carcinoma — spheroidal, columnar, squamous-celled—are met with; and not infrequently, when the secondary growths are increasing rapidly, there is a transition from the columnar-celled to the spheroidal-celled type. Secondary colloid carcinoma may occur ; and sometimes, like other forms of carcinoma, colloid carcinoma may spread by continuity into the portal fissure. Secondary carcinoma and sarcoma both begin inside the capillaries of the liver, and hence a sarcoma often has an alveolar arrangement. Pressure on the bile ducts and branches of the hepatic veins gives rise to local bile-stain- ing and chronic venous congestion of the liver substance. Carcinoma may be spread directly into the liver substance, especially from primary car- cinoma of the gall-bladder. Carcinoma of the stomach may grow directly into the liver, or pass up the lesser omentum to the portal fissure, and incidentally compress the bile duct and portal vein. Sarcomatous growths are very rarely um- bilicated; they are prone to be more hfemor- rhagic than carcinomatous nodules, and, like them, may soften down and form pseudo-cysts. As the result of haemorrhage taking place into the growths the size of the liver may suddenly increase. Rupture of a hsemorrhagic nodule of growth may give rise to severe collapse from hsemorrhage into the peritoneum. Clinical Features.—The liver is enlarged and progressively increases in size, the right lobe being more aifected than the left. Its surface is irregular and nodular, and the projections may, if the abdominal wall be thin, be felt to be cupped in the centre; this is a point of importance in distinguishing it from the hob- nailed liver of cirrhosis. Outlying nodules of growth may be felt at the umbilicus or along the line of the falciform ligament. The liver may be both painful and tender, from stretching of its capsule and local perihepatitis, which may reveal itself to the stethoscope by a friction sound. The pain may spread from the right hypochondrium to the back, and be felt in the loins. The spleen is not enlarged, hsematemesis does not occur, and enlargement of the abdominal veins, if present, is due to obstruction to the inferior vena cava, and is not seen chiefly around the umbilicus, as it would be in portal vein obstruction. The patient is emaciated, more so than in primary malignant disease of the organ, both because he is suffering from new growth in at least two situations, and because the course of secondary malignant disease of the liver is more protracted. The patient progressively loses strength, and gradually passes into a condition of cachexia. The cachexia may be accompanied by a certain amount of fever. Gastric disturbance, nausea, vomiting, and loss of appetite, with marked distaste for meat, are commonly seen. The bowels are usually confined ; very occasionally there is diarrhoea. Jaundice and ascites occur in about half the cases, and may be met with together. The jaundice may be catarrhal, but is often due to gross obstruction of the ducts in the portal fissure, and is then progressive, and becomes of a dark green colour. Bile disappears from the faeces and is present in the urine. Pruritus may be troublesome; and from the develop- ment of cholcEmia, hsemorrhages into the skin, and bleeding from the nose, gums, and mucous surfaces may result. The jaundice, which does not last sufficiently long to allow of the development of xanthel- asma, is more likely to occur when the primary growth is near the liver, as in the gall-bladder or stomach, whence a direct continuity of the growth may spread to the larger ducts. The pressure of growth in the portal fissure on the ducts may extend to the portal vein, and give rise to ascites. In some instances the portal vein itself is not involved, and the ascites is due either to chronic peritonitis set up by malignant infection of the peritoneum, or to widespread infiltration of the liver with new growth obstructing the branches of the portal vein. The ascitic fluid may be clear, bile-stained, or more rarely chyliform or hsemorrhagic. In melanotic sarcoma it has in rare instances been found to be of a dark colour, from the presence of the pigment melanin. The urine may be lithatic and contain indican; in secondary melanotic sarcoma of the liver the urine sometimes darkens on standing, from the presence of melanin. The pigment is usually passed in a colourless form— melanogen—and when oxidised darkens. This can be rapidly demonstrated by adding nitric acid, ferric chloride, or bichromate of potash. Occasionally the urine is already dark when voided from the bladder. Urine containing indican darkens with nitric acid, but not with perchloride of iron ; the latter reaction is useful in distinguishing melanuria from indicanuria. Albuminuria and glycosuria are very infre- quent in secondary malignant disease of the liver. Termination.—Unless life is cut short by some complication, death occurs from gradually in- creasing weakness passing into coma, which may be extreme when the patient is jaundiced or suffering from cholcemia. Duration.—After the liver is known to be involved, life is seldom prolonged for more than six months sometimes the course of the disease