229 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED front of the symphysis pubis. The last lumbar spine is usually to be found about an inch above the line joining the posterior superior iliac spines. This diameter averages in thin women about 7| inches. It was at one time supposed that there was a constant relation between the external and the internal conjugate, that by deducting 3 inches from the former the length Fig. i5.—Duncan'.? callipers. of the latter might be ascertained. This has been carefully tested and found not to hold good. The difference between the two conjugates varies from 3 to 4-^ inches. Hence an external conjugate of 7h inches is no guarantee that the pelvis is not contracted. On the other hand, when the internal measurements are normal, if the patient be thin and her bones slender, the external conjugate may be slightly less than 7J inches; but if the external conjugate is less than 7 inches, it is certain that the internal conjugate is contracted. Some other external measurements are not so easily made. AVhen the patient is not pregnant, and if she is not too fat and will relax her abdominal walls, the true conjugate can be measured by " Hardie's method." This consists in depressing the anterior abdominal wall imtil the promontory is felt, and then measuring the distance from the promontory to the top of the pubes. This cannot be done accurately, for the posterior end of the measurement is not the promontory, but the promontory plus the thickness of the abdominal wall; and the anterior end of the measurement, the top of the sym- physis, is not the nearest point to the pro- montory. It is thought that in women with abdominal walls of ordinary thickness these two inaccuracies about neutralise one another; this may be so, but the existence of these in- accuracies prevents this mode of measurement from being more than an approximation. Still, it is in some cases a useful approximation, and can be used as a "control experiment" to measurements otherwise obtained. In some pelves, the kyphotic and the funnel- shaped pelvis, it is important to measure the trmisverse diameter at the outlet. This is difficult to do, because the bony points, the distance between which we want to know, viz., the tubera ischiorum, are covered with such a thickness of soft parts that it is impossible to get any measuring instrument directly on to them. The best way of doing it, in my opinion, is to make the patient kneel on her elbows and knees, and then, feeling the position of the ischia with the fingers, to mark their outline on the skin of the buttocks, and then measure the distance between the markings. It is more difficult than would be expected to mark out accurately the position of bones which lie so deep ; but it is obvious that such error as may occur in deliberately marking- out the outline of the bones is more likely to happen if the measurement is made, or attempted to be made, without first marking the skin. In cases of oblique deformity of the pelvis measurements should be taken from the posterior superior iliac spine on each side to the anterior superior iliac spine of the opposite side, and from the hollow below the last lumbar spine to the anterior superior spine on each side. This will enable the amount of deformity to be esti- mated ; but a degree of obliquity that cannot be detected without this measurement is not of great importance. The distance between the postey-ior superior iliac S2nnes may be measured ; it is iisually about one-third of the distance between the anterior superior iliac spines. In the flat pelvis the posterior spines are abnormally approximated and the anterior abnormally separated, and therefore the difference between the posterior and anterior interspinous measurement is in- creased. But in a pelvis so much flattened that this diminution in the proportion of the posterior interspinous to the anterior is marked, the deformity will be more easily and accurately ascertained in other ways. In fat women it is not easy to feel the posterior superior iliac spines. II. Internal pelvimetry is that which is really important, but it is also more difficult and is very disagreeable to the patient. It is the measurement of the diameters of the pelvic canal. Instruments have been made for this purpose, consisting of variously shaped metal