503 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES far this belief is justified is open to doubt, or at least to discussion. The infective material can only be conveyed by way of the portal vein, and it is assumed, and in many instances it has been proved, that the etiological factor in liver abscess resulting from dysentery is of the nature of emboli, carried from the surface of the ulcerated bowel to be arrested in the radicles of the divisions of the portal vein within the liver. Dr. Neil Macleod has explained the tendency of dysenteric lesions, in contradistinction to the open surfaces of typhoid or other intestinal ulceration, to set up liver abscess. He contends that in dysentery the purulent material burrows beneath the mucous membrane ; that it is apt to be confined in the recesses, and by the undestroyed bands of tissue, and thus retained in contact with open radicles of the intestinal veins. This explana- tion would seem to merit consideration; yet it cannot in any sense be considered as the com- plete solution of the phenomena, for it is a fact that dysentery, although even more prevalent amongst natives than amongst Europeans in India and elsewhere, is seldom followed by liver abscesses in the case of the native. Further, it does not in any way solve the question of single and multiple abscesses unless the formation of one or other of these is merely a question of coincidence or accident—a view which is by no means improbable. So puzzling is the question of intestinal ulceration and liver abscesses that more than one observer has sought to explain the association by adducing a chemical agency as the mode of infection of the liver. It is possible that the dysenteric ulcer is associated with a specific toxic agency—bac- terial, chemical, or embolic—which, when it reaches the liver, tends to establish a focus or foci of suppuration, and that the question of singleness or multiplicity is for the most part accidental. Abscess of the Liver independently of Dysentery. —Tropical abscess of the liver is by many con- sidered to be independent of dysenteric lesions in the bowel; and the generality of statistical records, although they show some 50, 60, or even 80 per cent in several computations, in no instance claim that all cases of tropical abscess are to be assigned to dysentery. The opponents of the direct connection between the two pheno- mena assert that dysentery is an occasional con- comitant of liver abscess, but that in a large proportion of cases, as proved by post-mortem records, no dysenteric lesion, old or fresh, is met with. The explanation of this absence of post-mortem evidence is ascribed, by the up- holders of the potency of dysentery in the lesion, to imperfect observation. This is a view which cannot be upheld in every instance, and the ex- planation probably lies in the confusion due to the want of differentiation of liver abscesses. As stated above, suprahepatic abscesses are not caused by, although they may be accompanied by (or provoke), dysentery; but pathological records would seem to point to the conclusion that intrahepatic abscesses are dysenteric in their origin. The amoeba coli in relation to dysentery is also a question of dispute and individual opinion. The discovery of so-called amoebic dysentery was, by the believers of the potency for evil of this infusorian, supposed to afibrd a solution also of liver abscess in connection therewith. Amoebic dysentery as a distinct disease is, how- ever, not established on a secure basis. The very presence of the amoeba coli is now known not to bear a pathological significance, for it is a resident in the healthy gut. The normal presence of the amoeba in other organs has not been fully investigated ; but in many abdominal lesions the amoeba finds its way thither, perhaps as a consequence of the pathological change rather than as a factor in the origin of the changes. That this is the case in liver pus has been observed by Dr. Manson, and the writer can confirm his statement. The amoeba is not found in the pus flowing from the liver for the first two or three days after operation, but appears with well-nigh regularity on the third or fourth day. Dr. Manson believes that the absence of the amoeba in the first liver pus that escapes is due to the fact that the infusorian dies amongst the dead central pus, and is only to be met with when the pus recently formed from the walls of the abscess finds ready escape, or in scrapings from the walls of the abscess cavity itself. The writer is inclined to believe that the amoeba plays no part in the changes which lead up to an abscess, and it is only when the abscess is tapped and flowing that the amoeba travels towards the region. It has been suggested that the amoeba itself is not a pathological factor in hepatic suppura- tion, but that it carries in its substance bacterial or other toxic agencies which lead to the estab- lishment of suppurative changes. This is a possible, even a probable, mode of infection; but it is unsubstantiated and speculative, and implies the presence of the amoeba in liver abscesses ab initio—an assumption which is not corroborated by fact. Liver Pus.—The pus drawn oS" from a liver abscess is unlike that met with in any other part of the body. The first gush of pus from the centre of an abscess resembles ordinary pus more closely than the subsequent issue, but its appearance from the very first is well-nigh characteristic. A rather sickly, disagreeable, mawkish odour pervades both the initial and subsequent issues of the pus. At first the dis- charge is of a fairly uniform consistence, dirty white in tinge, and streaked with bile-colouring matters or with blood. As it flows a sero- sanguinolent appearance is communicated to the pus, the colour becoming more and more sanious.