431 LIVER, PHYSIOLOGY OF of a nucleo-proteid, with small traces of mucin. These are formed in the bile-passages. The action of bile in digestion is unimportant, since its exclusion from the intestine does not prejudicially affect either men or animals. Its only action is as an adjuvant to the pancreatic juice by dissolving the fatty acids set free, and thus favouring their absorption. When the bile does not enter the intestine, about 30 per cent of the fats escape absorption, and it is the presence of these which gives the peculiar white appearance to the stools in jaundice. The very small importance of bile in digestion raises the question of how far it is to be regarded as a digestive secretion and how far as a waste product. The facts that its secretion begins before birth and is continuous during starvation, that its formation has no immediate relationship with the taking of food, that its pigment is derived from the decomposition of htematin and its chief constituents—its acids—from proteid disintegration, all strongly support the view that it is a waste product which has come to play a minor part in digestion. There is no evidence that the proteids of the food are ex- creted as the acids of the bile, and it must be concluded that they are derived from the pro- teids of the body generally, or more probably from the waste of the liver tissue itself. Excretion of Toxic Substances hy the Liver.— The study of bile secretion leads to the con- sideration of another function which the liver seems to perform. It has been found that it can take up pigments of various kinds and secrete them in the bile. It has also been shown that the salts of the bile acids are re- absorbed from the intestine, carried to the liver, and again secreted. Now, certain other substances are treated in the same way. Curare, when administered hypodermically, is a powerful toxic agent, but when taken by the mouth its action is not manifested. It appears to be absorbed, carried to the liver, and excreted in the bile. It seems to circulate in the portal circulation until gradually eliminated from the bowel, and thus is prevented from entering the general circulation. At one time it was sup- posed that snake venom, which is not toxic when swallowed, undergoes the same treatment, but Fraser has shown that bile has a destructive action upon it. Possibly ptomaines formed in the intestine are prevented from producing their prejudicial effect by being re-excreted by the liver and in this manner got rid of. Influence of Nerves on the Liver.—The influence of the nervous system has been investi- gated on only two of the functions of the liver, the secretion of bile and the production of sugar. The subject is much complicated by the fact that the nerves act upon the blood-vessels, and that both bile-production and sugar-production are influenced by the vascularity of the organ. Thus it has been shown that section of the splanchnic nerves, which causes dilatation of the blood-vessels, causes an increased flow of bile, while stimulation of these nerves causes a diminution in the secretion. Similarly, factors which dilate the vessels tend to cause a more rapid conversion of glycogen to glucose. Apart from this indirect influence, there is so far no evidence that the secretion of bile is governed by the nervous system, while the facts that injection of pilocarpine, which in- creases the flow of saliva and of pancreatic juice, has no effect on bile secretion, and that atropine does not arrest it, seem opposed to the idea that there is any nervous mechanism directly in- volved. On the other hand, the flow of bile already secreted into the bile-passages is directly under the control of the nerves, and a discharge of bile into the duodenum is reflexly brought about when food is taken. Recently a good deal of evidence has been forthcoming of a direct influence of the nervous system on the glycogenic function of the liver. Cavazzani has shown that stimulation of the coeliac plexus causes glycogen to be converted into sugar, and Butler states that stimulation of the peripheral end of the cut vagus increases the amount of sugar in the blood leaving the liver. This may, of course, have been due to vascular dilatation. Diseases of Liver Anatomical Abnormalities . . .432 Liver 432 Biliary Apparatus .... 432 Post-mortem Changes . . .432 Acquired Deformities . . . 433 Displaced Liver .... 434 Hepatoptosis 435 Fmictional Disease . . . .437 Diseases of— Hepatic Artery ..... 440 Hepatic Veins . . . . .441 Lymphatic Vessels . . . .441 Chronic Venous Engorgement . .442 Hepatic Pseudo-Cirrhosis . . . 444 Hepatic Infarcts .... 445 Biliary Cirrhosis 445 (a) Hypertrophic Biliary Cirrhosis . 445 {b) Obstructive Biliary Cirrhosis . 450 Portal Cirrhosis 451 Varieties of Hepatic Cirrhosis in Early Life 462 Degenerations and Infiltrations . . 462 Fatty Liver ..... 462 Lardaceous Liver . . . .464 Pigmentary Change .... 464 Calcareous Infiltration . . . 465 LEUK.EMIC Infiltration . . . 465 Tumours of Liver . . .466 Innocent Tumours .... 466 Adenoma . . . . . 466 Angioma ...... 468 Lipoma ...... 468