LAEYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS 332 caustics to the larynx, and has been caused by traumatism or the inhalation of boiling steam or irritating vapours. In some instances it is of undoubtedly septic origin, the micro-organisms which are apparently causative being various staphylo- and strepto- cocci. The membrane presents the same naked- eye and microscopic appearances as in diphtheria, but it is not—as frequently in that atfeetion— found in the pharynx or nose. Symptoms.—Hoarseness, a croupy cough, and other laryngeal symptoms indicate the region attacked. Dyspnoea may appear early in acute cases, but be little marked in those in which the membrane forms slowly. Constitutional symptoms will depend entirely on the causative factor ; but, as a rule, there is not the early and grave depression which is generally charactei'- istic of diphtheria. Examination will show the presence of a greyish-white or dirty grey membrane on the vestibulum laryngis, or even on the true vocal cords. If due to the bacillus pyocyaneus, it may be of a blue colour. It will be found to be closely adherent to the mucous surface. Diagnosis. —• The principal affection from which this form of membranous laryngitis must be diagnosed is diphtheritic laryngitis. The latter, in the majority of cases, is associated with the presence of membrane in the pharynx as well as the larynx; the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus can be cultivated from a swab taken from the membrane; and the constitutional symptoms are more marked. Membranous laryngitis, in fact, is a local affection causing some general disturbance; but diphtheritic laryngitis is a general systemic infection from laryngeal in- oculation. When there is any doubt as to the diagnosis, it is safer to treat the case as if it were one of true laryngeal diphtheria. Prognosis.—This will depend upon the cause of the affection, on the amount of constitutional reaction, and on the degree of interference with respiration. The prognosis becomes grave when imperfect aeration of the blood is observed, or when cyanosis develops. Treatment.—The treatment should be symp- tomatic, and will be conducted on the lines indicated in the section on Acute Laryngitis. When the respiration is interfered with, either intubation or tracheotomy may be required. (Edematous Laryngitis Synonyms : Larynyitis, Phlegmo7iosa, Erysipelas of the Larynx, (Edema of the Glottis, (Edema Glottidis, (Edema of the Larynx. Definition.—A certain amount of subacute or passive oedema is apt to occur in many of the ulcerative processes in the laryngeal mucous membrane — syphilitic, tuberculous, malignant —as well as in connection with other affections. But, as generally understood by many, the term is reserved for an acute oedematous in- filtration of the tissues bounding the upper larynx, more particularly the aryepiglottic folds and the inter-arytenoid region, and dependent on the following causes:— Etiology.—Acvite oedema may be induced by the following causes :—The impaction of foreign bodies in the larynx, the inhalation of boiling steam or liquids (as when children drink from the spout of a kettle or teapot), the drinking of scalding or corrosive fluids, the inhalation of very irritating smoke or chemical vapours, or the injudicious or accidental application of caustics to the larynx. Many of the causes which produce acute laryngitis may also excite oedema, but it is rare to find it dependent only on excessive voice use. It may accompany the acute laryngitis of the infectious fevers — measles, scarlatina, diphtheria, enteric, erysi- pelas, whooping-cough. Inflammation in the neighbourhood of the larynx, as in malignant disease of the oesoph- agus, peritonsillar abscess, inflammation at the base of the tongue, etc., may lead to oedematous infiltration of the laryngeal mucous membrane. It may accompany Bright's disease, diabetes, cardiac anasarca, Quincke's oedema (angioneurotic oedema), and myxoedema. It is sometimes produced by iodide of potassium, and even by small doses in susceptible subjects. One of the most dangerous forms is that dependent on septic infection and often met with in the course of Ludwig's angina, phleg- monous sore throat, erysipelas of the pharynx or larynx, and similar septic infections. Oedema of the larynx has been met with in hydrophobia, and as an early complication of typhoid fever. Any growth comprising the tributaries of the superior vena cava, such as goitres, bronchial glands, and mediastinal growths, may lead to passive congestion of the larynx. Pathology. — The loose attachment of the mucous membrane to the underlying tissues in the neighbourhood of the aryepiglottic folds, the inter-arytenoid region, and the ventricular bands, readily allows these parts to be infil- trated with serous effusion. Owing to the close attachment of the mucous membrane over the vocal cords and epiglottis, these regions are more rarely affected. The researches of Hajek have demonstrated anatomically how it is that oedema of the larynx does not readily spread across the middle line from one side to the other of the larynx, or from the front to the back of the epiglottis. ^ The oedema may affect chiefly or entirely the subglottic region. The exudation varies according to the cause and severity of the affection. In the passive form it is entirely serous, btit in the septic and in- flammatory form it is sero-purulent or purulent. ^ Langenbeck's Archiv fiir klinische Chirurgie, Bd. xlii. Heft 1.