350 LARYNX, BENIGN GROWTHS OF 2. Situation of the growth.—Simple growths, except multiple papillomata, are confined to the anterior two-thirds of the vocal cords in the vast majority of cases, and practically never occur in the inter-arytenoid region. A single growth on the aryepiglottic folds, epiglottis, or neighbourhood of the vocal processes, especially in patients over forty-five, is strongly suspicious of malignant disease. 3. Simple growths appear to groiv out of, malignant growths to invade, the parts in which they are situated.—This is a sign of great value to the practised eye. 4. A malignant growth has generally an inflamed base, or the whole cord on which it is situated may be hypersemic. 5. Any interference with movement of the cord on which the growth is situated, not due to purely mechanical causes, will be strongly presumptive of malignancy. 6. The tendency to ulceration of malignant growths, even at an early stage, will often settle the diagnosis. Course and Prognosis.—The natural history of a simple laryngeal growth will depend princi- pally on its character. Fibromata, after attain- ing a certain size, generally remain stationary for years, though very rarely they continue to grow till they come to obstruct the breathing. Papillomata may be divided into two kinds: in the one there does not appear to be any tendency to rapid growth, even when multiple; in the other they appear to have almost a malignant character, recur rapidly when re- moved, and spread down the trachea, to the edges of the tracheotomy wound, and along the cicatrix left after a thyrotomy. The latter form is mostly seen in young children, the former in adults. From the small number of cases of papilloma seen between the ages of ten and twenty, I am of opinion that in the larynx as elsewhere, these growths tend to disappear at puberty, and this view has been confirmed by my own observations as well as by others. That they may also remain from childhood throughout adult life is shown by a case which I saw some years ago. A gentleman, aged sixty-three, had lost his voice at the age of ten after an attack of measles. He had gone through life practi- cally voiceless, and without ever having his larynx examined. I removed a large number of papillomata from the edges of the cords and anterior commissure, which have shown no tendency to recur. Papillomata have been noticed in a few in- stances to disappear after attacks of acute infec- tious disease, and many times after tracheotomy. Laryngeal growths have also been coughed up, or have sloughed off" through the pedicle be- coming twisted. On one occasion a lady, from whom I removed a large fibroma growing from the ventricle, brought me a similar growth which she had coughed up four years previously, and had preserved in spirit. The only danger to life arises from the sudden onset of asphyxia, and although this can generally be prevented by a timely tracheo- tomy, I know of several cases among the children of the poor where death has resulted from suffocation. As to restoration of voice, prognosis is very good on the whole; but in multiple papilloma, and in growths with broad attachments, the voice is not likely to regain its full range and purity. In the case of singers and other pro- fessional voice-users, the prognosis should be very guarded, if the growth springs from the cords, or if there is much catarrhal thickening. As regards recurrence, it is only to be feared in papilloma. A fibroma, once thoroughly re- moved, does not recur, and the same is true of other simple growths. Papilloma, however, may even recur after the larynx has been free for years. The question of the malignant degeneration of benign growths has been finally settled by the collective investigation instituted by Semon. That such a transformation may occur is possible, but it is an event of the greatest rarity, and one which is in no way influenced by intralaryngeal treatment. Treatment.—It may be regarded as certain that no internal treatment has any influence on the progress of laryngeal neoplasms, though arsenic has been said to have a specific influence on papillomata. Cases have been recorded of growths disappearing under the use of astringent or alkaline sprays. These were no doubt purely inflammatory products, and vocal rest may have had as much to do with the result as the local application. An exceptional case is that re- ported by Delavan, in which a large papilloma disappeared completely under the prolonged use of a spray of absolute alcohol. Except in the case of " singers' nodule," which is often cured by prolonged rest of the voice, we may say that practically all laryngeal growths require operative treatment for their removal. In a small number of cases, however, the growth may be left alone, either because it produces no symptoms, or because the symptoms are so trifling that the patient is unwilling to submit to operation. Examples of this sort which have come under my notice have been epiglottic cysts, and small fibromata of the vocal cords. The introduction of cocaine has done much to simplify all intralaryngeal operations, and to shorten, or do away with the need for, the preliminary training of the patient. It has, however, by no means removed all difficulties, or made it safe for any but those who have undergone prolonged training of eye and hand, to undertake these operations. A great variety of instruments — forceps, knives, curettes, guillotines, and snares—have been employed in the removal of laryngeal