LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF 190 Small bottle of best olive oil. (For removing vernix from the child.) Creolin. Chloroform, 4 oz. Linen thread, 1 hank, boiled and put into a bottle. Some pieces of fine clean linen. A pair of scissors (bhmt-pointed). A dusting powder of equal parts of boracic acid, prepared chalk, and starch; this can be scented with rose or violet. Boracic acid solution. Brandy or whisky. A new nail-brush. A packet of absorbent wool. Fluid extract of ergot, 4 oz. Castor oil, 3 oz. Complete set of clothing for child (see " New- born Child"). The medical man should attend as soon as possible on being summoned. Not only is it a great mental relief to the patient, but it also is an opportunity to diagnose the sort of labour that is likely to take place. If the presentation is abnormal, it allows of a chance of rectifying it by postural treatment during an early stage. The practitioner should take with him :— A lubricant for the fingers; a tube of 1 in 1000 corrosive sublimate and glycerine is useful, it does not get infected as a pot of vaseline would. Tabloids of corrosive sublimate. A pair of forceps. Needle-holder, pair of scissors. Needles, and strong silk or catgut. Hypodermic needle, with hypodermic tabloids of ergot, morphia, strychnine, and digitalis. Asepsis and Antiseptic Measures It is not too much to affirm that the most essential point in the successful management of a midwifery practice is a thorough know- ledge of the theory and practice of asepsis. The extraordinary reduction in the mortality shown by the records from the various lying-in institutions since the adoption of antiseptic methods, proves that if the principles of aseptic midwifery could be perfectly carried out there would be no deaths from septictemia, and that there would be also a great reduction in the diseases directly due to childbirth. With regard to this point, some interesting figures are given by Dakin from a study of a large series of hospital statistics; he shows that the unavoidable deaths from childbed which are caused by diseases other than septicaemia may be taken as about "2 per cent, which figure represents the present ideal death-rate. With care, equally good results can be obtained even under apparently adverse circumstances. Thus, out of a series of 1549 consecutive cases imder the writer's care in out-patient dispensary prac- tice, the total mortality was 4, or 1 in 397, or •2 per cent; the causes of death were rupture of the uteris, pulmonary embolism (2), and pneumothorax (phthisis pulmonalis). These results were simply due to strict cleanliness in all the details of the confinement. Before studying in detail the methods of preventing infection from the hands and clothes of the doctor or nurse, and from dirty instru- ments, etc., a brief reference may be made to nature's method of keeping the vagina sterile. Kronig has shown that the normal vaginal secretion in pregnant women has a germicidal reaction. It contains non-pathogenic bacteria. The vagina has been found to be aseptic within forty-eight hours after the introduction of septic bacteria. This bactericidal power is not apparent; it is not due to a simple process, but it is quite possibly the result of a joint chemical, mechanical, bacterial, and leucocytic action. In addition to the germicidal action of the vaginal discharge, the operculum or plug of mucus blocking the cervix completely prevents the entrance of bacteria into the uterus. When the membranes rupture, the liquor amnii washes out the greater part of the vagina and carries oS the bacteria present. After the birth of the child, when the walls have been stretched to their utmost, the liquor amnii that comes after the child is able to wash out any remaining bacteria. In this way the uterus is kept free by nature from bacteria after delivery. As in the course of labour vaginal examina- tion and operations must be performed, it is necessary to do all that is possible to avoid the introduction of germs. The keynote to this is absolute cleanliness in every detail. In arranging the method to be adopted it is well to have the details as simple as possible, so that they can be constantly carried out. It must also be remembered that many antiseptics are incompatible when mixed together. Soap decomposes corrosive sublimate, iodine, and permanganate of potash; carbolic acid and permanganate of potash are incompatible. Carbolic acid and soap can be used together. Cleansing of the Ha7ids. — The thorough cleanliness of the hands is as important for the nurse as for the doctor, and neither should touch the genitals of the patient without having washed the hands in some such way as the following:—First, scrub the hands, and especi- ally the nails, thoroughly with soap and hot water (the variety of soap is not of importance provided there is a good lather); then rinse the hands in plain hot water to remove all the soap, and thereafter soak them in a 1 in 500 solution of corrosive sublimate for one minute. Never place the hands direct from the soapy water into the antiseptic, as soap decomposes corrosive sublimate. It is not necessary to use a lubricant for the examining finger ; but if it is preferred, avoid the use of oily or fatty materials, as it is almost impossible to render them aseptic.