LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS 336 but are perhaps most common in the inter- arytenoid region, the posterior ends of the cords, and the ventricular bands; they can frequently be seen in the trachea. The mucous membrane is pale and wasted, and when the crusts are removed the surface underneath them is seen to be abraded. The tension of the cords has generally been considerably damaged. In the majority of cases purulent processes can be traced up to the post-nasal space and the nose, and the etiological conditions men- tioned will be found causing other symptoms. Pathology. — The process begins from the mucous surface, which is first infected, and then abraded. Many of the mucous glands are destroyed. The underlying tissue is replaced by connective tissue. There is ansemia from the constant presence of septic material, and ati'ophy from want of use of the muscles. Prognosis.— Chronic atrophic laryngitis is a chronic disease, and seldom shows any spon- taneous tendency to cure. In those cases where it is found to be dependent on a focus of suppuration in the nasal cavities which can be removed, there is good hope of effecting a practical cure, although some amount of chronic laryngitis might still be left as a legacy of the long-standing process. Treatment.—From what has already been said, it will readily be gathered that in the treatment search must first be made for an etiological condition in the pharynx and nose, and treatment directed accordingly. The possi- bility of a syphilitic diathesis, acquired or con- genital, should not be lost sight of ; and even when there is nothing to point to specific disease as the primary cause, relief is frequently obtained from the stimulation of the atrophied laryngeal glands by the administration of small doses of iodide of potassium. A healthier condition of mucous membrane may be promoted by painting with some form of Mandl's solution.* The use of the trochisci acidi carbolici of the Throat Hospital Pharma- copoeia is cleansing and comforting. The larynx should be sprayed or syringed out frequently with an alkaline solution, and when freed of crusts it should be lubricated with a spray of paroleine containing menthol or other antiseptics. If the mucous surface is abraded, it should be treated with nitrate of silver or similar caustics as directed in the sections on the other forms of chronic laryngitis. Dust, alcohol, and tobacco should particularly be avoided. A visit to the alkaline or sulphur spas of Ems, Mont Dore, Challas, Marlioz, Aix, or Harrogate will generally be found beneficial. Acute Laryngitis in Children There are certain anatomical peculiarities connected with the larynx in children which 1 R lodi Pur. gr. v., Pot. lod. gr. xv., 01. Menth. Pip. TTl v., Paroleine §j. demand some special consideration of laryngitis in young subjects. In childhood the larynx is not only absolutely smaller than in the adult, but it is relatively small in proportion to the development in other regions. The cartilages which compose its framework are much softer than in the adult, and therefore yield more readily to either direct or negative pressure. The mucous membrane is less closely adherent to the sub- jacent tissues, particularly in the aryepiglottic folds and subglottic region, and as a conse- quence effusion, and consequent stenosis, takes place more readily. The lymphatic supply of the mucous mem- brane is richer in children than in adults, and hence acute laryngitis is more apt to be attended with submucous infiltration. In consequence of these anatomical peculi- arities inflammation of the laryngeal mucous membrane produces acute symptoms much more quickly than in the adult, and the symp- toms of dyspnoea and cyanosis are apt to appear early. Besides, not only is the nervous system of the child generally more unstable, but it appears to be particularly sensitive when the larynx is attacked. In forming a prognosis it should be borne in mind that there is a possibility of risk from spasm of the glottis. Acute laryngitis is always a serious affection in childhood, and the younger the patient the greater the danger. The symptoms sometimes give rise to what has been called false croup. The child may appear quite well through the day or be affected only with a slight cough. During the night dyspnosa may develop rapidly and alarming- symptoms of spasm may set in ; in most cases these are connected with naso - pharyngeal catarrh, and the symptoms are partly those of laryngismus stridulus. The treatment suitable will be found under the headings of Acute Laryngitis (p. 326) and Laryngismus Stridulus (p. 374). In children it has been found that emetics are more useful than in adults, and the adminis- tration of a tea-spoonful of vinum ipecacuanhse will often remove a quantity of obstructing secretion. Hot applications over the larynx are particularly useful in children. Finally, it must be remembered that with them life is more readily threatened by acute laryngitis, so that the practitioner should be prepared for intubation or tracheotomy. Injuries to the Larynx Etiology.—Fractures of the laryngeal car- tilages are nearly always the result of direct violence. They are not of common occurrence, and this is probably due to the elasticity of the cartilages and the mobility of the larynx as a whole. Concussion alone does not appear to be sufficient to fracture the thyroid or cricoid car-