LABOUR, OPERATIONS—CESAREAN SECTION 303 After this has been done no more bleeding takes place imless the placenta is attached in front, as the pressure with the pessary thoroughly prevents even oozing. Care should be taken UTLRU5 INCISION CAEISARIAN SECTION Figs. 3, 4. not to puncture the membranes, which will soon be observed and recognised by their pearly colour. If the placenta intervenes, this method of pressure is beneficial not only in preventing bleeding, but also in permitting us to observe its tissue, which is recognised by its darker colour. Whenever the membranes are reached a director is placed within the opening, which is then enlarged with a blunt- pointed bistoury, upwards and downwards as far as the pessary will admit. At this stage the compression pes- sary is removed, and the incision extended up- wards and down- wards sufficient- ly to permit the passage of the foetus. The ex- tension of the in- cision downwards should be limited, as it is likely to interfere with proper contraction of the uterus. Should the placenta intervene, it must be dealt with as a placenta praevia after completing the incision—that is, either separated upon one side, or, if central, pierced by the hand. There must be no hesitation in extend- ing the incision, which is made upwards and downwards from within outwards in each direction with a blunt-pointed bistoury, so as to make an incision of about 5 or 6 inches, as in Fig. 4. The left hand is inserted without rupturing the membranes till the head is being turned out, or the feet grasped, and then the child should be extracted without delay. On no account should the hand be withdrawn after its insertion, unless during extraction of the foetus, as the uterus speedily contracts. If the shoulder presents, a hand should be placed upon it to prevent its expulsion, as it adds very much to the difficulty when any portion of the child's body ;s allowed to protrude. The child having been extracted, the assistant places a large flat sponge over the upper angle of the abdominal incision, to prevent the bowels from escaping, and then with both hands grasps the uterus, so as to prevent bleeding. The cord having been tied and divided, the placenta is immediately removed with the left hand, great care being taken to secure the removal of all membranes and to prevent the entrance of blood into the peritoneal cavity. The assistant now everts the uterus from the cavity, and pushes a flat sponge behind it. The lips of the uterine wound are next everted, the assistant grasping the upper angle and wall with his right hand, and the lower angle and wall with the left, as in Fig. 5. The operator immediately inserts the silk ligatures, beginning at the middle, each suture grasping the entire wall, with the exception of the mucosa. From seven to ten sutures should suffice, as with the contraction of the uterus the incision is greatly diminished. Fig. 6. This accomplished, the sutures are gathered up and a large flat sponge laid over the anterior wall, and another behind. Firm compression or kneading is then made through the sponges, with the result that the uterus contracts firmly. The assistant should again seize the uterus as before, whilst the operator ties the sutures. When this has been accomplished the whole organ is enveloped in a large, warm, flat sponge, and firm compression again made so as to ensure thorough contraction. Should any oozing appear at the needle punctures, a second warm