123 KIDNEY a ureteric calculus was recognised through the abdominal wall (Fenger). These signs will, in the majority of cases, be absent, and it is only after months or years, when the kidney is explored for stone or a swelling appears with the characters of a hydro- nephrosis or a pyonephrosis, and is exposed by the surgeon, that the situation of the calculus is ascertained. A stone situated at the lower end of the ureter may give rise to symptoms in no way differing from one in the higher parts of the tube, but many of the cases are sufficiently distinct to lead to a certain diagnosis. In a case where signs of renal calculus were present, constant and marked pain in the lower part of the abdomen has drawn attention to the situation of a stone in the lower ureter; but more striking are the cases where symptoms have pointed to stone in the bladder. There is marked and frequent desire to micturate, with straining and the discharge of small quantities of urine, pain at the end of the act often referred along the urethra or to the glans penis. Some hsematuria may be observed, often recurrent, and the urine may contain besides red cells and leucocytes, oxalate or uric acid crystals. The effect of movement and vibration is not, liowever, so marked as is usually the case in vesical stone, for walking and driving may have little effect in inci'easing the symptoms. The effect of posture is sometimes striking, for the suffering may be more intense on standing or sitting, especially with an empty bladder (Zuckerkandl's case), or the patient may be unable to lie on the affected side (Bishop and Fenwick's cases). On passing a sound in these cases a sensation of a " soft membrane " covering some hard substance may be detected (Morris's case), or the metal may ring clearly on a projecting part of the stone, and the fixity and constant position will be noticed. On rectal examination a hard mass is usually felt lying in close relation to the bladder wall and tender to the touch, and on vaginal ex- amination a similar body may be felt in the region of the broad ligament. In some cases the finger in the rectmn has detected a calculus where none was felt from the vagina. The cystoscope in one case showed the lower end of the ureter to be proptosed and covered with a small villus tuft (Fenwick). Diagnosis.—Mimetic conditions. Renal Lithiasis.—-A calculus lying in the middle or upper portion of the ureter cannot be differentiated from one in the renal pelvis or calyces. Vesical Calculus.—A stone in the lower end Df the ureter may closely resemble vesical 3alculus. The means of diagnosis are by rectal 3r vaginal examination of the ureter and the information gained by the sound or cystoscope. Frimary Tubercle in the Vesicula Semin/ilis.— This must be guarded against by a careful analysis of the urine for bacillus and by rectal examination. Ovarian and Tubal Disease.—Long-continued pelvic pain with radiations and increase during the menstrual congestion, together with a tender swelling in one fornix on vaginal examination, due to calculus impacted in the lower ureter, has led to removal of the ovaries and appendages from erroneous diagnosis. A careful examination of the ureter by vaginal examination and of the ureteric orifice by cysto- scopy, and attention to the history, should prevent such mistakes. Additional Aids to Diagnosis.—In some cases a radiograph has been taken of the pelvis, and evidence of the extravesical site of the calculus has been obtained (Leonard, Zuckerkandl). The cystoscope and the catheterising cysto- scope may give useful information in a calculus situated low down. The passage of a wax-tipped bougie along the ureter in women may, on withdrawal, give the evidence of scratches produced by the calculus (Kelly). Advice to Patients about Operative Treatment. —The only treatment of any avail is removal, and this should be urged as soon as possible before the kidney has become deteriorated by blockage and ascending inflammatory changes. One danger which is not sufticiently emphasised is perforation of the ureter above the calculous block, and consequent extravasation. I operated on such a case lately, the calculus being four inches below the kidney and the perforation was one inch from tlie pelvic orifice of the ui'eter. It should, I submit, be a general operative rule that if the stone be found in the upper third of the ureter, the ordinary lumbar incision should be employed; if at the pelvic brim, the common iliac artery incision suffices; if below the pelvic brim, the incision should be perineal or vaginal. Several cases have lately been recorded in whicli the abdominal incision for tying the common iliac artery has been followed, and, the peritoneum having been raised, the lower end of the ureter has been reached extraperitoneally. There is no doubt that this incision is of value when one has to remove the ureter in its entire length, or to extract stones which have become impacted in that canal at the pelvic brim or about that level; but I question if it is not unnecessarily severe when the stone has become lodged below the jyelvic brim. Operative Procedures Methods of Exposing the Kidney.—The patient lies upon the sound side with a hard pillow beneath the loin. Many incisions have at various times been suggested and practised in laying bare the kidney. There are two chief