33 IODINE For use over exposed parts of the body a colourless alcoholic solution of iodine, strength 1 in 40, prepared by decolorisation with strong solution of ammonia, has been recommended, but it is very weak in action and can have little real effect as a counter-irritant. Iodine should not be applied to the skin during the progress of any acute inflammatory condition, nor when there is fever. The official tincture may be injected into a hydrocele sac after tapping so as to set up the formation of obliterative adhesions. This proceeding causes the most exquisite agony, and should either be performed under a general anaesthetic or should be preceded by the in- jection of a solution of cocaine. Morton's fluid, which consists of iodine 10 grains, potassium iodide 30 grains, and glycerin 1 fl. oz., was formerly employed as an injection for spina bifida, but it is quite unreliable and has been almost entirely abandoned. The injection of iodine into the pleura for hydrothorax and empyema, and into joints and abscess cavities, has also been given up on account of the risks of poisoning from absorption. As an antiseptic, iodine has been used in ulcerative stomatitis. In unhealthy conditions of the teeth with a purulent discharge from between the teeth and gums, the direct application of the tincture is particularly beneficial; it has also been em- ployed in ozsena ,and in nasal catarrh. In chronic pharyngitis Mandl's paint, which con- tains 6 grains of iodine to the ounce of glycerine with 20 grains of potassium iodide to effect solution, is of very great value. The tincture, and sometimes even the liquor if it can be borne, may effect a cure in ringworm when other means have failed. 20-30 m. of the tincture to 2 pints of boiling water, as an inhalation, has been re- commended for chronic fibroid phthisis and other chronic chest conditions. Recently a solution of iodine with potassium iodide has been advocated as a simple and efficient means of sterilising catgut for surgical purposes. From time to time iodine has been administered internally for the treatment of diseases of obscure pathology, but with no very marked success. In conditions associated with enlargement of lymphatic glands it may be of service, but it should not be given when suppuration is present. In countries where goitre is common it is said to act as an efficient remedy, given either by the mouth or by direct injection into the gland. It is useless in exophthalmic goitre and in cystic enlargement of the gland, but may prove of some value when simple overgrowth of the connective tissue of the gland is present. Small doses of the tincture, well diluted with water, frequently repeated, may check obstinate vomiting when other remedies fail. Iodides 1. Potassii lodidum.—Prepared by dissolving iodine in liquor potassse, evaporating, and heat- VOL. v ing the residue with charcoal, when by solution in boiling water, filtering, washing, and evapora- tion, large, slightly opaque, cubical crystals are obtained. It is soluble in less than its own weight of water, 1 in 12 of alcohol, and 1 in 3 of glycerin. Dose—5-20 grs. Preparations— (1) Unguentum Potassii lodidi. (2) Linimentum Potassii lodidi cum Sapone. 2. Sodii lodidum.—Made in the same way as the potassium salt, a solution of soda being used in place of potash. It is a white, crystalline, deliquescent powder, freely soluble in water, glycerin, and alcohol. Dose— 5-20 grs. 3. Ammonii lodidum, a deliquescent powder consisting of minute crystalline cubes, is some- times employed. It is non-official. Administration of iodides is the recognised treatment in all cases of syphilis. In the primary stage mercury is preferred, but in the secondary and especially in the tertiary stages iodide is invaluable. Syphilitics usually, though not always, tolerate the drug well, and large doses must be given if the full benefit is to be obtained. The initial dose of 10 grains three times daily must be rapidly increased until symptoms of iodism occur, and then the amount should be diminished some- what. Some patients will tolerate as much as three or four drachms daily. Nodules, gummata, etc. disappear rapidly under this treatment, but the parasyphilitic sclerotic conditions, particularly those of the nervous system, are little, if at all, influenced by it except in the very early stages. In tumours of doubtful nature the effect of large doses of iodide is a great aid in diagnosis. In chronic lead, zinc, arsenic, and mercurial poisoning, iodides form soluble salts with the metals and aid in their elimination from the tissues. In chronic articular rheumatism, in rheumatoid arthritis, in sciatica, in lumbago, and in some cases of neuralgia, iodides may prove of great service. In conditions of increased arterial tension associated with degenerative changes in the vessel walls, iodides, by lowering the blood pressure and increasing elimination of waste products, relieve symptoms and also retard the progress of the degenerative changes. It is to be noted in this connection that fairly large doses must be given, as small ones increase the blood pressure and thus aggravate the condition. In aortic aneurysm good results have been obtained from long - continued administration of large doses, but what the mode of action is in these cases has not yet been decided. In asthma, iodide may ac- complish a complete cure when all other drugs have proved useless; and in bronchitis of the larger tubes and emphysema it is of great value. It has been recommended for the treatment of chronic Bright's disease ; but it must be used cautiously, for if not properly eliminated by 3