LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 499 spleen, and gastric disturbance ensue. The arrest in the freedom of exit of blood from the hepatic vein brings about alteration in the blood-current and in the tissue of the liver. To begin with, the sublobular and the interlobular veins—that is, the radicles of the hepatic vein— are engorged; the intralobular veins and the branches of the portal vein in time inevitably suffer from blood stasis. The liver thereby be- comes swollen, its capsule is rendered tense, and a true chronic capsulitis, independent it may be of a perihepatitis, results. The connective tissue of the liver in time hardens, the nutrition of the liver-cells is so altered that a fatty in- filtration or true fatty degeneration supervenes. Gastric and duodenal catarrh, giving rise to obstruction to the flow of bile, obtains, and some jaundice is the result. Examination of the liver in advanced cases shows that whilst its surface remains smooth, provided it is un- complicated by syphilitic or other changes, the area of the liver dulness is increased in every direction, it may be to elephantine dimensions. The hepatic symptoms may become the most urgent of all the complications induced by thoracic venous obstruction, and may require attentive treatment. The hypertrophy in such cases may tempo- rarily subside, only to reappear in an aggravated form; or the hypertrophy may permanently disappear, and a contraction in size and true cirrhosis of the liver take its place. The diagnosis of hepatic hypertrophy due to re- tarded venous exit is usually sufficiently evident from the signs and symptoms. The prognosis depends entirely on the curable or incurable nature of the affection which gives rise to the hepatic condition. The treatment is considered later. (2) Physiological passive congestion is best exemplified by the hepatic condition associated with habitual constipation. The primary cause, however, of the constipation may be due to lessened functional activity of the liver itself, aggravated or caused by excess of food or insufficiency of muscular exercise, usually by both. Residence in cities, working in close and ill-ventilated apartments, more especially when the work entails a sitting posture, is a frequent cause of the trouble. (3) What may be termed a neurotic form of passive congestion in the liver is witnessed in several paralytic states. In fracture of the lower part of the cervical spine or dorsal vertebrae, the thoracic and abdominal muscles are wholly or partially paralysed according to the seat of injury, and the movements of the chest wall are arrested or interfered with. The sympathetic nerves, more especially the splanch- nics, may be involved in paralysis of either cerebral or peripheral origin, and the functional control of the liver disarranged. The depend- ence of the liver upon the nervous system for healthy action is illustrated in such conditions as sudden jaundice from fright, in the diabetic state induced by experimental research upon, and by disease of, the fourth ventricle. It is possible that the javmdiced state connected with influenza has its origin in a neurosis. Treatment.—It is well at all times to treat active congestion of the liver seriously. The patient ought to be sent to bed and kept there until the jaundiced tint has worn off, and bile disappeared from the urine and reappeared in the stools. The diet should be reduced to a minimum in quantity, and given at three-hour intervals ; it should consist chiefly of milk in some form. Plain milk is often repugnant to the patient at this time and may induce nausea or flatulence ; whereas skimmed milk, soda or seltzer with milk, whey, junket or curds, are often well tolerated and easily digested. Calfs- foot jelly or any non-alcoholic jelly is agreeable and useful as a change. Chicken-tea freed of the fat, thin beef-tea, raw meat j nice, raw meat sandwiches, tripe prepared in milk, etc., are a few safe forms of diet to select from. Some of the artificial foods, plasmon, Maggi, etc., are welcome as changes to a restricted diet, and agree well with patients suffering from hepatic and gastro-intestinal derangements. Alcohol must be denied altogether and the thirst satisfied by hot water; by weak tea, hot or cold, and with lemon in place of milk and sugar; lemon tea (not lemonade); rice tea (boiling water poured over roasted rice); toast-water, etc. When the biliousness disappears the diet is to be gradually increased; a speedy cure at this stage is often effected by a diet of finely minced beef, lightly cooked, and given in quantities of six ounces three times daily, with copious draughts of hot water between meals, and in the early morning and at bed-time. Intestinal catarrh is thereby reduced, and the function of the liver stimulated to act, as can be demon- strated by the quantity of bile in the stool. Medicinal treatment is devoted to (1) allaying gastric or intestinal catarrh; (2) draining the liver by purgative medicines ; (3) and restoring the hepatic functions, when acute symptoms have subsided, by the administration of hepatic stimulants. During the acute stage of the disease, and when gastric irritation is a prominent condition, alkaline medicines are indicated. The bicarbon- ate of sodium (gr. xv.), iodide of sodium (gr. ij.), chloride of ammonium (gr. xx.), tinct. nucis vomicae (n\. iij.), in a mixture with §j. inf. gentian, is a common and useful form of exhibit- ing alkalies, and should be taken immediately before food. Saline purgatives are to be given in the early morning. The sulphate of soda, in effervescing form by preference, in purgative doses in a small quantity of water, is the most satisfactory; it is an important constituent of Carlsbad, Hunyadi Janos, Friedrichshall, and