148 KNEE-JOINT, injuries of from pressure of an aneurysm, or simple growth, from tabes, general paralysis, and chronic brain diseases. 2. Fragilitas ossium, a fragile condition of bones, not associated with obvious atrophy, and often with a hereditary history. 3. Inflammation of bone, with subsequent necroses, abscess, or caries, of pyogenic, tuber- culous, or syphilitic origin. 4. Rickets. Ossification is irregular and feeble, resulting bone being spongy and fragile. Union is much delayed, and may not occur until disease is almost cured. 5. Osteomalacia. The change consists in decalcification of bone and subsequent absorp- tion of part of the constituents by the marrow. Bone gets thinner and thinner till it becomes a mere shell and disappears altogether, being replaced by the marrow. 6. New growths. Of simple tumours, the chondroma is the only one that ever results in fracture. Sarcoma, which is usually primary, and carcinoma, which is usually secondary, are much more frequent causes of spontaneous fracture. A hydatid cyst may be responsible for the fracture. (Rupture of ligamentum patellae and quadriceps, vide Muscles and Tendons.) Epiphysial Injuries Separation of the Lower Epiphysis of the Femur results from extreme direct violence, as the passage of a wheel over the lower end of the femur, and from indirect violence, giving rise to over-extension of the knee, together with violent twisting and traction on the leg, as when it is entangled in the spokes of a wheel in motion, and is carried round by it. This is the common mode of production (Hutchinson, jun., Barnard). Lateral flexion, or a force applied in a lateral direction, is best calculated to produce a separation of the epiphysis (Henry Morris). In young children a slight fall may cause the injury, especially if they are the subjects of some disease, e.g. syphilis, rickets, tubercle. It is sometimes met with in railway and lift accidents. The majority of cases are met with in children and young adults between seven and fourteen years of age, although, theoretically, it may occur up to the end of the twentieth year, i.e. before complete bony consolidation between the diaphysis and the epiphysis has taken place. It is nearly always in boys. In partial separation the line of cleavage between the epiphysis and diaphysis is incom- plete, the periosteal sheath is intact, and there is no displacement. With comptlete separation the line of cleavage passes right across the bone between the epiphysis and diaphysis. This may be simple or compound. Simple without Displacement.—In this con- dition the periosteal sheath is usually untorn, the epiphysis being merely loosened. If, how- ever, the periosteum is torn the synovial membrane will be injured (for the epiphysis includes the whole articular surface), and acute synovitis of, or eff'usion of blood into, the knee- joint will follow. The breadth of the femur and the strength of the periosteum lessen the occur- rence of displacement. There is swelling about the joint, pain on attempting to move the limb, and tenderness along the epiphysial line. Simple with Displacement.—In this variety the thin posterior periosteum is perforated by the end of the diaphysis, which projects beneath the skin to one or other side of the popliteal space, usually the outer. The periosteal sheath is strongest on the front of the femur, and this band is rarely torn; hence, when dis- placed, the epiphysis is carried forwards, taking with it the tibia, to which it is attached by the popliteus and the strong crucial ligaments; at the same time it is drawn upwards and inwards by the quadriceps and adductors, and rotated backwards by the strong gastrocnemius, the two heads of which are in part attached to the epiphysis. The fractured end of the diaphysis is convex, and that of the epiphysial cartilage, which usually remains attached to the epiphysis, is concave, and when reduced it is not easy to displace them. If, however, the anterior band of periosteum is torn, the epiphysis is displaced backwards; it is then difficult to keep in posi- tion after reduction. Symp)toms.—There is marked deformity about the joint, increased girth around the knee, and shortening of the limb from two to four inches. Great swelling and ecchymosis in the popliteal space soon develop, with effusion into the knee- joint of extravasated blood and synovial fluid. The broad lower end of the diaphysis is felt at the outer side of the popliteal space. It does not move with the leg when the latter is moved laterally. The epiphysis is felt in front and to the inner side of the displaced diaphysis, and it moves with the leg. Soft cartilaginous crepitus may be felt when the two ends of the bone are in contact. There is abnormal mobility with hyperextension of the leg on the thigh, readily obtained under an ansesthetic. Compound Separation. — With very severe injury the lower end of the diaphysis is forced through the skin, and projects to one or other side of the popliteal space, usually the outer. Immediate Complications.—Separation may be complicated by a fracture of the diaphysis or an intercondyloid fracture of the epiphysis, or one or other condyle may be broken off", or a fracture of the upper end of the tibia. When there is displacement the popliteal vein may be pressed upon, producing oedema of the leg, and subsequent haemorrhage from ulceration; or it may be wounded, giving rise to extravasation of blood into the surrounding tissues. If the artery is compressed the injured limb will be colder than its fellow; if wounded, an aneurysm