163 LABOUR, STAGES AND DURATION Stages and Duration of Labour Definitions . Premonitory Stage First Stage . Second Stage Third Stage . 163 163 163 166 167 The process of labour is divided into three stages: the first stage, or stage of dilatation; the second stage, or stage of expulsion; and the third stage, or placental stage. Further, for clinical purposes it is convenient to include an additional stage—the premonito^-y stage, in- asmuch as labour is ushered in by a train of symptoms and physical signs of sufficient definiteness to warrant such an addition. The Premonitory Stage.—Duration.—The premonitory stage of labour is most irregular, both in the time of its onset and the degree of its symptoms. As a rule the symptoms first show themselves one or two days before labour —properly so-called—starts. In primiparse the symptoms are well marked; in multiparse they may be slight or even entirely absent. Phenomena.—The principal phenomena associ- ated with this stage are as follows :— (1) The Occurrence of False Pains. — The commonest phenomena of commencing labour consists in the occurrence of irregular pains, distributed over the abdomen generally. These pains, which may be considered as amplifications of the painless contractions of the pregnant uterus, are known as " false pains" or dolores presagientes. They occur at widely separated intervals, and are distinguished from true labour pains by their irregularity, and by the fact that they are felt over the abdomen gener- ally and not in the back. (2) The Descent of the Fcetal Head into the Pelvic Cavity.—This sign is of value in multi- parse, as in their case the head does not as a rule descend until about the commencement of the first stage. In primiparse, on the other hand, it is valueless, as in them the foetal head €an, as a rule, be found in the pelvic cavity during the last three weeks of pregnancy. It must also be borne in mind that descent of the head may be prevented by disproportion between its size and the size of the pelvic brim or cavity, or owing to some intra-uterine ■obstruction to the descent. The commonest causes of disproportion are contracted pelvis, mal-presentations of the head, hydramnios, and tumours growing from or occupying the pelvis. The commonest causes of intra-uterine obstruction are low situation of the placenta, hydramnios, twins, and myomata obstructing the cervical canal or lower uterine segment. (3) Partial Dilatation of the Cervical Canal. —The changes which occur in the cervix during this stage differ in the case of primiparae and of multiparse. In primiparae, the internal os usually commences to dilate at the beginning of labour, while the external os may remain closed for some time after labour has started. In multiparas, on the other hand, the external OS is as a rule dilated for some days before labour starts; and, in some cases, the internal OS may share in this dilatation, though, as a rule, its dilatation commences during this period. In both primiparae and multiparae, the opercu- lum or plug of mucus which fills the cervical canal is expelled (4) Swelling of the Vulva.—A slight degree of swelling of the vulva very constantly occurs. It is due to the increased obstruction offered to the return of blood, owing to the pressure exerted upon the veins by the descending head. (5) The Occurrence of a Blood-stained Dis- charge.—The discharge or show — as it is generally termed—which occurs at this period consists of viscid mucus from the cervix, and a small quantity of blood; it is probably closely connected in its quantity and onset with the commencement of dilatation of the cervix. The falling of the fundus of the uterus is sometimes given as one of the phenomena of this stage. At the end of the thirty-sixth week the fundus reaches to the ensiform cartilage, while at the commencement of labour it is found to be midway between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus. As, however, this change gradually occurs during the last three or four weeks of pregnancy, it can hardly be considered as one of the symptoms of this stage. Diagnosis.—It is by no means easy in all cases to determine whether the patient has reached the premonitory stage of labour or not. It is a question which frequently can only be settled by carefully looking for the various symptoms and physical signs which have been described. The fixity of the head is a tolerably reliable guide in multiparae, if it is present; on the other hand, it is of no value in primiparae. If the head is not fixed, and other signs point to the likelihood of the patient being in labour, an attempt must be made to ascertain if there is any cause suffi- cient to prevent such fixation. The occurrence of irregular pains is sometimes deceptive, as they may be due to flatulence, etc. A con- siderable degree of dilatation of the cervical canal is a tolerably certain sign. Slight dilata- tion, on the other hand, is but of a negative value. First Stage.—Duratio7i. The first stage, or stage of dilatation, commences with the onset of true uterine contractions, and ends with the full dilatation of the os and the rupture of the membranes. Its average duration is in primiparae from eleven to twelve hours, in multiparae from six to eight hours. Phenomena.—The chief phenomena of the first stage are — the uterine contractions, the taking up and dilatation of the cervix, and the rupture of the membranes.