346 LARYNX, CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES this organ results. Again, the true and false cords may be the seat of disease, and one or both sides of the larynx may be extensively destroyed. Tertiary ulcers of the larynx invariably leave more or less marked changes after they heal. Thus in extreme cases great narrowing of the lumen of the glottis may occur, while the various parts of the larynx are so altered as to be hardly distinguishable. Again, not imcommonly a cicatricial web occludes more or less of the space between the cords, which may themselves be so changed as to be recognised with difficulty. Sometimes, as a result of ulcers near the arytenoid cartilages, these become fixed, and an appearance is produced which by the casual observer might be taken for recurrent paralysis. When, instead of healing, ulceration tends to extend, perichondritis may result, and occasionally oedema supervenes and renders a rapid resort to tracheotomy necessary. The symptoms of laryngeal syphilis rule, not very marlced. In the catarrhal stage, huskiness and mere discomfort only are experienced. Very rarely, as we have seen, condylomata may occur and lead to dyspnoea during the second period. Gummata may, according to their situation, lead to hoarseness or dyspnoea. When ulceration has become established more or less pain may be com- plained of, the breath becomes foetid, and hoarseness is often pronounced. If the epi- glottis only be involved, difficulty in swallow- ing may be a marked symptom; but even the total disappearance of this part does not, joer se, cause any permanent interference with deglutition. The diagnosis of laryngeal syphilis is usually easy if other evidences of the disease be present, e.g. cutaneous, lymphatic, buccal, or pharyn- geal. As we have seen, specific catarrh may not have any distinctive characters. Mucous patches may be simulated by herpes, but more particularly by pemphigus after the blebs have burst. It is, therefore, not a simple matter to diagnose even the earlier forms unless we have a definite history or other manifestations. The same difficulty confronts us more frequently with regard to tertiary conditions. As a general rule gummatous infiltrations are of a red colour, while frequently tubercular deposits are pale. When the stage of ulceration has been reached, therefore, the syphilitic ulcer is surroimded by a raised angry red zone. Moreover, it is often single, its floor is covered with whitish detritus, and it spreads with great rapidity if no constitutional treatment be adopted. Occasionally both in tubercle and syphilis an ulcer is found in the inter-arytenoid fold. So far as t know, the appearances are identical, and diagnosis must then depend upon the condition of the lungs, the presence or absence of tubercle bacilli in the sputum, and of other evidences of syphilis. On the other hand, extensive deep ulceration of the epiglottis spreading from its lingual surface is usually specific. Infiltrations which have begun to break down may also be mistaken for malignant disease, and in some cases only the effect of antisyphilitic remedies can determine the true nature of the affection. Primary lupus of the larynx differs from syphilis in that the infiltration is uniformly nodular and does not tend to break down—or, at least, if ulceration occurs, its progress is excessively slow. Moreover, the patients are commonly young persons, although not always. Leprosy only occurs in the larynx as part of the general disease, while in scleroma there is no tendency to ulceration. The treatment of laryngeal syphilis must, of course, be constitutional. Mercury by the mouth or by inunction should be employed in the secondary stages, while in the tertiary period our main reliance must be placed upon iodide of potassium. It is, however, well to remember that sometimes even in late mani- festations, a course of mercurial inunction, either at home, or preferably at Aix-la-Chapelle if means permit, may expedite a cure. If syphilitic catarrh be obstinate, it may be treated by the local application of solu- tions of chloride of zinc or nitrate of silver (gr. 20 ad When ulceration has occurred a spray of corrosive (1 in 2000), of boracic (gr. 10 ad sj), or of menthol in paroleine (5 per cent) may be ordered. If ulcers refuse to heal, they may be touched with nitrate of silver or chronic acid. It is of great consequence, when extensive destruction of tissue has occurred, to prevent as far as may be subsequent stenosis. It may therefore be necessary during this period to dilate the larynx with Schroetter's bougies, or possibly the introduction of an O'Dwyer's tube may be indicated. If the case be only seen after stenosis has occurred, it must be treated according to the rules laid down in another part of this work. Scleroma of the Larynx This disease, probably due to the bacillus discovered by Frisch, rarely if ever occurs in the British Isles ; indeed, it seems to be confined to certain well-defined areas. It is common in the south-west of Russia and adjacent provinces over the borders; it has also been met with in Central America and the Antilles. In the larynx the subglottic space'^is most frequently attacked. As a rule, two sym- metrical hard swellings appear below the cords; in colour they are grey or pink, while when touched with a probe they are felt to be of very firm consistence. Infiltration may, however, involve the aryepiglottic folds and