FEEDING 20 INVALID hot. Lay the chicken on it with the cut side down to begin with; broil either on the top or before a clear fire for about half an hour. When cooked, lift on to a very hot plate, and rub the rest of the butter over it. Serve with rolls of bacon round it. If broiling an older fowl it must be partially cooked first either by boiling or roasting. Chicken Souffle Breast of chicken. Cream, 1 gill. Egg, 1. Flour, I oz. Salt 1, , , r, > to taste, repper j Skin the breast of the chicken ; chop it finely; pound well in mortar; melt the butter; stir into the flour, and a table-spoonful of cream. Let it come to the boil; pour it over the pounded chicken; add seasoning, pound together, and rub through a wire sieve. Switch the remaining cream imtil stiff; mix gently with other ingredients. Butter some cups; half fill with mixture; cover the cups with kitchen paper, and set in stewpan half full of boiling water. Steam for fifteen minutes. Serve with white sauce. The boiling water should only come half-way up the cups while steaming. Chicken or Veal Panada \ lb. breast of chicken or \ lb. fillet of veal. 1 tea-spoonful cold water. 1 table-spoonful cream. A pinch of salt. Wipe the meat and cut it into small pieces, free it from fat and skin. Put into a cup with a pinch of salt or cold water. Tie over it a greased white paper, and steam slowly for 1 to 1^ hours. Then lift it out, place the contents of the cup into a mortar; pound well and rub through the sieve. Pvit the sieved mixture into a pan, add the cream, and heat thoroughly. This may be served on a piece of toast or even taken cold. Ragout of Fowl or Rabbit Take the wings and breast of a fowl or the back and legs of a rabbit; soak in hot water for five minutes, then put into a jar with salt and mace or peppercorns. Cover with milk ; cover the jar closely, set in an oven, and bake for three hours. Take out the meat. Pour the milk into a basin to cool, so that the fat may be easily removed. Warm in a cup set in hot water when required, or warm a little of the meat in the milk, and serve with thin toast or water biscuits. Tripe, Methorh of Preparimj. —• The best varieties of tripe are those known as the "blanket" (because it has a folded appearance), the dark variety known as the " monk's hood " —these are best for invalids on account of being more tender. The other sorts are known as the "book" and the "honeycomb." If tripe is properly prepared it is a most delicately flavoured and easily digested article of food, and should be in much more constant use than it is at present. It requires, however, very careful cleaning and boiling. In Scotland we are unable to buy prepared tripe at the butcher's, so it is necessary to vmderstand the whole process. Tripe sold in England has generally had a preliminary boiling. First wash and scrub in several waters and scrape it with a knife, pulling away any pieces of fat from it. Cut it into pieces and put it into a clean saucepan with cold water to cover it, and bring it to the boil. This is called blanching, and is repeated until the water in which the tripe is boiled loses all its heavy smell. This may require being done four or five times. Then rinse the saucepan well; put in the tripe with cold water to cover it, bring to the boil, and cook dov>ly for ten to twelve hours. If cooked too quickly the tripe will get hard. When sufficiently cooked, it ought to be so tender that it will pull easily to pieces when you try it with the fingers. Pour it out into a basin and cover it with the liquor in which it was cooked. This prevents it becoming hard and dry. It can then be made up in any way you wish. The water in which tripe is boiled should never be thrown away, as it contains a certain amount of nourishment. It is sometimes served as an invalid jelly. The tripe can now be stewed in various sauces for fifteen minutes :— 1. Tripe stewed in white sauce and onions, and served with sippets of toast. 2. Tripe stewed in a thick tomato sauce, and served with little rolls of bacon and croquettes of fried bread. 3. Tripe heated in a good curry sauce, and served with a border of rice. 4. Scallo^jed Tripe.—Lay a layer of prepared tripe in a buttered fire-proof china dish, then a layer of chopped mushrooms and seasoning such as pepper and salt. Add a gill of brown stock, and on the top sprinkle bread crumbs with little pieces of butter. Place in oven to get thoroughly hot and brown. 5. Baked Tripe.—Grease out a small pie-dish, and put the tripe with thin square pieces of bread and butter into this in alternate layers. The last layer should be bread with the buttered side up. Beat up an egg in a basin until it is frothy, add it to half a gill of tripe liquor, and season with pepper and salt. Strain this into the pie- dish, and then wipe round the edge of the dish with a cloth. Let the mixture stand for ten minutes until the bread gets thoroughly soaked.