320 LARYNGISMUS STRIDULUS Laryngismus Stridulus.—A spas- modic affection of the larynx, characterised by arrested respiration, cyanosis of the face, and followed by noisy inspiration. See Asphyxia ; Asthma; Bronchi, Bronchial Glands [Diag- nosis) ; Bronchi, Bronchitis {Diagnosis); Con- vulsions, Infantile {Etiology, Rickets); Larynx, Laryngismus Stridulus ; Nose, Post - nasal Adenoid Growths ; Rickets {Clinical Features); Tetany ; Thymus Gland {Status LympJiaticus). La.ryng'itiS. See Larynx, Acute and Chronic Inflammations ; see also Burns and Scalds {Clinical Features, Laryngitis and (Edema Glottidis); Cough {Clinical Varieties, Diseases of Larynx); Diphtheria {Diagnosis); Measles {Complications, Laryngeal Catarrh) ; Nose, Diseases op Nasal Orifices and Septum {Benign Tumours of Nasal Fossce). Laryng^O-Fissure. — Thyrotomy or splitting of the thyroid cartilage. See Larynx, Affections of the Cartilages {Stenosis, Treat- ment). LaryngfOSCOpy. See Larynx, Examina- tion of {Laryngoscojiy). Larynx.—This subject is treated in the following sections:— 1. Examination of. 2. Acute and Chronic Inflammations. In- juries, Foreign Bodies, etc. 3. Clu:onic Infective Diseases. 4. Neoplasms—{a) Simple. (6) Malignant. 5. Neuroses. Hypertrophy of Lingual Tonsil. 6. Affections of the Cartilages. Stenosis of the Larynx. 7. Laryngeal Stridor, Congenital. 8. Laryngismus Stridulus. See also Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm of {Symptoms, Laryngeal Paralysis); Asphyxia ; Asthma; Brain, Physiology of {Functions of Cerebral Cortex, Motor Areas, Movements of Larynx); Breath {Clinical Diagnosis, Odour, Ulceration of Larynx); Bronchi, Bronchial Glands {Diagnosis); Bronchi, Bronchiectasis {Treatment, Intra-laryn^jeallnjections); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Diagnosis); Convulsions, Infantile {Etiology, Rickets); Diphtheria {Diagnosis); Gout {Irregular Gout, Resp)iratory System, Laryngeal Catarrh); Intubation ; Lung, Tuber- culosis OF {Complications); Nose, Post-nasal Adenoids ; Physiology, Respiration (Voice); Rickets {Clinical Features, Laryngismus Stridu- lus) ; Syphilis (Visceral Syphilis, Trachea and Lungs); Tetany ; Thymus Gland {Status Lym- phaticus); Trachea, Affections of {Treatment, Tracheotomy); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce, Paralysis of Vocal Cords). Examination of Larynx 1. Lary'ngoscopy ..... 320 2. Direct Inspection of Larynx . . 322 3. Transillumination .... 322 4. Skiagraphy of Larynx . . . 323 5. Palpation ...... 323 6. Examination of Trachea . . . 323 1. Laryngoscopiy. —• The apparatus required for examining the larynx consists of a laryngeal mirror, a forehead reflector, and a good light. As every senior student nowadays is familiar with the laryngoscopic mirror and reflector, it is no longer necessary to give a detailed description of them. But some practical directions as to how to use them, and what to observe, may be of service :— The patient should sit erect on a stool or chair with his head slightly inclined backward. The source of light, whether oil, gas, or electric lamp, should be placed at his right or left shoulder, and on a level with his ear. The observer, seating himself in front of the patient, places the reflecting mirror over his eye nearest to the lamp, so as to screen it from the light, and looks through the hole in the reflector while keeping both eyes open. The source of light, the patient's mouth, and the eye of the observer should be on one level. It is well before pro- ceeding further to make a careful inspection of the mouth, fauces, and pharynx by means of a tongue-depressor and the reflected light. Observe if there be any general anaemia or con- gestion of the parts, and note the presence of any swelling, ulceration, cicatrix, or membranous deposit, also any dryness or excess of secretion, and the condition of the tonsils and uvula. The observations made at this stage will often help us in the diagnosis of the laryngeal condition, and the practice which it gives in using the reflector so as to obtain the best illumination —a great difficulty with beginners—will prove of real service in the later stages of the examina- tion. Having completed the examination of the pharynx, we direct the patient to open the mouth widely and push his tongue well forward. With the aid of a tongue-cloth the tip of the tongue should be grasped firmly, but gently, between the thumb and forefinger of the left hand and held out, but not pulled upon or dragged down on the lower teeth. The laryngeal mirror should then be held over the lamp till a slight film of moisture forms on its surface and passes off, and its temperature tested by applying it to the back of the hand. Next throw a disc of light on to the fauces, so that its centre corresponds with the base of the uvula; and holding the laryngeal mirror on the right hand lightly like a pen, and with its reflecting surface downwards, pass it quickly to the back of the mouth, taking care not to touch the tongue or palate in doing so. The patient, meanwhile, should breathe deeply but