KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF 132 of the bone affected. Tliey remain latent for long periods, and may even cure without their existence having been suspected. They may be responsible for certain vague symptoms in the region of the knee, which are often dismissed as being " rheumatic " or hysterical; the patient complains of tiredness and aching, aggravated by exertion, and therefore usually worst at night, and there may be some stiiTness of the joint. It is quite exceptional to be able to demonstrate an enlargement of the bone or tenderness on tapping. Radiography gives the most valuable information if the osseous focus be of sufficient size. If the osseous focus makes its ^vay to the surface outside the limits of the synovial membrane, the complaint of the patient will be more definite and localised, there is pain in walking and marked lameness, the bone will become tender on pressure, and a swelling will develop which will gradually soften into a cold abscess. The joint, although perhaps a little sensitive and restricted in its movements, and in some cases showing a moderate amount of efiusion or hydrops, may escape infection altogether unless the condition is neglected or improperly treated. If the osseous focus reaches the surface at the point of reflection of the synovial membrane, the membrane becomes thickened, at first in the region of the osseous focus; the thickening then spreads throughout its whole extent, and the case then follows the course of ordinary synovial disease, with the exception that it is usually more stubborn, that it usually goes on more quickly, that there is more pain and rigidity at an early period, and that abscess is very apt to form soon in the synovial membrane at the point where the osseous focus has reached the surface. (Watson Cheyne.) If the osseous focus reaches an articular surface it tends to destroy the cartilage over it and to infect the joint. The symptoms vary with the suddenness of the perforation and with the amount of infective material thrown into the joint. Sometimes the communication between the focus and the joint cavity is incomplete, and the resulting joint disease evolves very gradually and partakes of the character of a dry arthritis with marked articular symptoms, which is very obstinate, and tends to incomplete ankylosis, with fixation of the patella and an entire absence of any synovial fungus. This type is the nearest representative in the knee of what is called "caries sicca" in the hip or shoulder. Sometimes, on the other hand, the communica- tion with the osseous focus is shut off by newly- formed fibrous tissue, and the joint lesion, although similar to the last, is confined to a limited area such as that of one of the condyles. In exceptional cases a quantity of tuberculous material may be discharged suddenly into the joint, and we may have the following clinical features as described by Watson Cheyne:— "The patient experiences sudden severe pain, probably at the time of perforation, followed by swelling of the joint and in some cases by fever; the whole joint becomes rapidly infected, the surface of the synovial membrane under- goes caseation, and the cartilages are quickly destroyed. In this condition some cheesy pus is generally formed at an early period in the joint, the patient suffers much pain, especially on the slightest movement, there is starting pain at night, the knee is flexed and rigid. When abscesses form and are opened they are found to communicate with the joint, the bones are carious, and if recovery takes place there is bony ankylosis." The Formation of Abscess in Tuberculous Disease of the Knee. — Statistics show that suppuration and sinuses are met with in rather more than 50 per cent of cases, and that the influence of these on the prognosis is decidedly unfavourable. Although abscess formation may take place at any stage in the progress of the disease, it occurs more frequently after symptoms of involvement of the articular cartilages have manifested themselves. Abscesses may originate in the substance of the synovial membrane, and spread externally to the periarticular soft parts, or they may originate in the joint itself; within the joint the suppuration is often confined to one or more areas which have been shut off from the general cavity, e.g. in the suprapatellar pouch, or in the area of one or of both femoral condyles. A cold abscess may also form in relation to one of the bursEe in the popliteal space. If untreated the abscess tends to spread into the periarticular tissues, into the popliteal space, and down the back of the leg, or upwards into the thigh between the vastus internus and adductors on the inner side, and along the edge of the vastus externus on the outer side; such abscesses may extend for a considerable distance, and by infecting extensive tracts of tissue, increase the risk of general tuberculous infection. Abscesses on the anterior aspect of the upper part of the leg are less common, and result chiefly from foci in the patella or in the head of the tibia. The sinuses which result from the external rupture of abscesses are often multiple and extensive, and by allowing of the entrance of septic infection, and by militating against the primary healing of operation wounds, are always to be regarded as a serious aggravation of the disease and an additional risk to the life of the patient. Diagnosis of Tuberculous Disease of the Knee. —The diagnosis of tuberculous hydrops has been refen*ed to under this head. There is usually no difficulty in recognising typical cases of white swelling. In some cases the thicken- ing of the synovial membrane may resemble in certain respects the much rarer condition of 2^erisynovial gv/tnmata; the latter are chiefly