297 LABOUR, OPERATIONS—CLEIDOTOMY there is a diminution of the bisacromial diameter by 2 and 3 cm. in unilateral and bilateral cleidotomy respectively. This narrowing of the shoulders either permits them to enter the pelvic cavity, or gives room for the passage of a blunt hook upwards and for the fixing of it in the axilla in order to make traction. Division of the clavicles is the one thing necessary, and cleidotomy alone of all the proposed plans does this and no more. It is simpler, more rapid, much more elegant, and it is quite as effective as any of the other operative procedures; it is, further, founded upon the correct scientific principle of attacking the parts which are concerned in maintaining the breadth of the shoulders. The cause of delay in labour in these cases is the width of the shoulders in the bisacromial diameter; by cleidotomy this diameter is quickly diminished, and with practically no risk to the mother. 6. Symphysiotomy An extremely clear and judicious estimate of the relative position of this to other obstetric operations has recently been given by Professor Bar in his Lemons de pathologic ohstetricale. Combining his 'own results in twenty-three cases with those of Pinard, Zweifel, and Kiistner, he finds that the present maternal mortality in symphysiotomy is 7-45 per cent, and the infantile mortality 9'3 per cent. Indications.—Symphysiotomy came on the field in the interests of the mothers whose lives were sacrificed in Csesarean operations, and whilst it is still chosen in certain cases as a safe alternative to these procedures, its employment is more urgently advocated in the interests of the infants whose lives are sacrificed in embryotomy operations. It is intended to widen the canals with less danger to the mother than was implied in opening the peritoneal cavity and the uterus, and it allows of the passage of the undiminished head of the infant in cases of pelvic contraction. The form of pelvic contraction to which it is best adapted is the pelvis mqwxhiliter justo minor, but it is had recourse to also in the rickety and osteo- malacic pelves. In the Naegele pelvis, as Faraboeuf has shown, section of the symphysis should be avoided, and, instead, the innominate bone on the side of the synostotic sacro-iliac joint should be sawn through the ischio-pubic rami, so as to allow of expansion of the bony girdle at the double hinge of the symphysis pubis and of the healthy sacro-iliac joint. Sym- physiotomy has been performed in women with pelves measuring as much as 9 cm. (3| ins.) in the conjugate of the brim ; but we expect in pelves with this space to witness the birth of the child under the natural efforts or with the aid of forceps or turning. On the other hand, where the conjugate is reduced to 2\ ins. f6-3 cm.), it is hardly possible that suflficient expansion would occur for the extraction of a living child, unless, according to the suggestion of Novi, symphysiotomy be conjoined with induction of premature labour. Morisani's minimum contraction of the conjugate of 6'7 cm. (2| ins.) should be maintained as the utmost limit in this direction for symphysiotomy inter- ference, and 9 cm. (3^ ins.) in the other, and the operation should, as a rule, be reserved for multiparous women, in whom the dilatation which the soft parts have undergone during their previous labours will lessen the dangers both to mother and child. The operator must, of course, make sure that the infant is alive and vigorous. Methods of Operating.—Consideration has to be given to :— I. The First Stage of the Labour.—In some cases the labour is already so far advanced that the more strictly surgical interference is at once demanded. In these patients too often there have been preliminary attempts at delivery with forceps or by turning, that may have seriously impaired the prognosis for mother and child. With a pelvis at the higher limit of con- traction—say from 8 to 9 cm. (3 to 3^ ins.)—it may be permissible to make cautious use of these alternative operations in cases where yet the operator fears he may have to divide the symphysis; but where the contraction ap- proaches the lower limit such interference would be futile and dangerous. Only in some cases of multiparous women, where the operator has made up his mind eventually to deliver by turning and extraction on the limbs, he may bring about the preliminary version by external manipulation, or by the bi-polar method whilst the membranes are still unbroken, so as to facilitate the seizure of the leg when the moment for extraction shall have come. It is to be remembered that in women with contracted pelves the first stage of labour is apt to be pro- longed, and it may sometimes be of advantage to promote the dilatation of the cervix and of the vagina by means of douches and hydro- static dilators. The operator has to take note further of any complication that may be present, such as prolapsus funis, and prepares to inter- vene only when the first stage is completed and the cervical canal is fully dilated. II. The Division of the Symphysis.—It goes without saying, that as all obstetric procedures should be carried out under as aseptic conditions as possible, so especially in this surgical inter- vention operators are careful to have the whole lower abdominal and pudendal region shaved and cleansed, and the parts and passages dis- infected. Three different methods have been adopted in cutting through the symphysis. 1. The Neapolitan Method.—Morisani and his school usually make an incision of \\ inches to 2 inches in length through the skin and