483 LIVER, DISEASES OF is more rapid. Much depends on the position and nature of the primary growth. If it be latent, have been removed, or, as in colotomy, be prevented from setting up obstruction, hfe may be carried on for a year, or even more. Sometimes the patient holds his own for a while and then rapidly goes down hill. The prognosis is, of course, quite hopeless. Operative interference cannot be expected to do any good since the growths are multiple. The diagnosis has already been discussed under the heading of Primary Malignant Disease. The treatment—symptomatic and purely pal- liative—is in the main the same as that of primary malignant disease. For pruritus due to marked jaundice chloride of calcium may be given in full doses for a day or two and then stopped. If this fails, pilocarpine \-\ grain or morphia may be given hypodermically. Alkaline baths or sponging the skin with carbolic lotion 1 in 40 sometimes give relief. Icterus Gravis Icterus Gravis— Nature ..... . 483 Relation to Acute Atrophy . 483 Acute Yellow Atrophy — Incidence..... . 483 Etiology ..... . 483 Relation to Phosphorus Poisoning . 484 Morbid Anatomy .... . 484 Symptoms and Signs . 486 Diagnosis . 486 Prognosis . 486 Treatment ..... . 487 Nature.—Icterus gravis, or malignant jaun- dice, is a term somewhat loosely used for cases where there is extensive degeneration of the liver-cells combined with toxsemic jaundice, and a tendency to a fatal termination. It thus includes a number of different conditions, such as the most severe cases of febrile jaundice or Weil's disease, acute yellow atrophy of the liver, phosphorus and other forms of mineral poison- ing, and other cases where an acute toxsemic or infective condition of the body falls on the liver and gives rise to widespread acute degen- erative and necrotic changes in the liver-cells ; for example, in yellow fever and in streptococcal and staphylococcal hsemic infections. The term icterus gravis may also appropriately be applied to cases where acute degenerative changes are superimposed on some pre-existing disease of the liver, such as cirrhosis or nutmeg liver. Icterus gravis should therefore be regarded, not as a specific disease, but as a group of symptoms due to the rapid development of hepatic insufficiency, eventually becoming abso- lute, which may be due to many different causes. Icterus gravis may be divided into— (a) Those cases where the liver was previously healthy, e.g. in phosphorus poisoning, acute yellow atrophy, or yellow fever. {b) Those cases where it supervenes as a terminal lesion on pre-existing hepatic disease, e.g. in cirrhosis or chronic venous engorgement. Relation to Acute Atro2}hy.—Acute yellow atrophy is a special form of icterus gravis, and may be regarded as a typical variety, since it is uncomplicated by the presence of any other disease. The terms icterus gravis and acute yellow atrophy are not absolutely synonymous, for all cases of icterus gravis do not show the naked-eye appearances of acute yellow atrophy of the liver, though the essential change—acute degenerative changes in the liver-cells—is much the same in both. Under the microscope the appearances are so closely allied that, from a pathological point of view, they may be said to pass into each other. Generally speaking, the liver is somewhat en- larged in icterus gravis, and the degenerative changes are not so markedly necrotic as in acute yellow atrophy. Since some of the various conditions, such as acute yellow atrophy, phosphorus poisoning, and Weil's disease, that are or may be included under the generic term icterus gravis, will be separately described, the clinical features of icterus gravis do not require any further de- scription than that found under the heading of Acute Yellow Atrophy. Acute Yellow Atrophy Acute Atrophy of the Liver.—Definition.— An acute degeneration of the liver-cells with diminution in size of the liver, jaundice, hajmor- rhages, nervous symptoms, and usually a fatal termination. Incidence.—That this is a rare disease is shown by the fact that Osier has never seen a case; curiously enough some observers have met with a number of cases in a short time —Reiss saw 5 cases in three months. In a personal experience of eleven years I have met with 6 cases with autopsies. Up to 1894 W. Hunter was only able to refer to 250 published cases, and in the succeeding four years M'Phedran collected 29 more. In twenty-five years 7 cases occurred at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, which, according to Brunton and Tunnicliffe, is 1 in every 500,000 applications for treatment at that charity. In twenty-seven years there were 11 cases brought to avitopsy at Guy's (Hilton Fagge). Etiology.—Age and Sex.—It is commonest between the ages of twenty and thirty. Accord- ing to Hunter's figures half the cases occur in this decade, and four-fifths between the ages of ten and forty- A certain proportion—I have collected 21 such cases—occur within the first ten years of life ; exceptionally it has been seen within the first year, or even shortly after birth. Females are more often attacked than males, the proportion between the two being nearly 2 to 1. Wilks puts the proportion higher—