513 LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES drainage-tube—a most important point; as if the tube has only just entered the abscess wall, or if the abscess is small, and when contraction during healing takes place, there is a probability that the pus is not removed, but lies around the end of the tube, and must be in some quantity before reaching the apertures at the side. Another important point is the question of drainage. The writer used invariably, whilst practising in the Tropics, to follow the plan of draining off the pus through a long tube, conducted from the patient's side over the side of the bed into a basin full of carbolised water placed on a low stool by the side of the bed. In this way a syphon action was continuously at work furthering the flow of pus. Following the practice of surgeons in Britain, the writer left off the syphon drainage only to repent it, and has now returned to the use of the syphon drainage as above described. Liver pus is so gelatinous and tenacious that no known dressing will absorb it, and it gathers between the skin and dressing; the exit is thus hampered by the dressing and by its own consistency. The syphon drainage obviates this and promotes a continuous flow. The drainage-tube ought to be used until pus ceases to flow, and the fluid coming away is bile- stained merely. This may be weeks after the operation, when a smaller tube is inserted and the length gradually shortened. The presence of a tube in the side causes no inconvenience. A patient of the writer's went through the China-Japan campaign in 1894-95 with a drainage-tube in his side which had been intro- duced after an operation for a liver abscess ; and another, the captain of a sailing vessel, started on his long voyage from China to New York with a tube in his side, getting rid of it only after being seven weeks at sea. Dr. Neil MacLeod, of Shanghai, has still further modified the apparatus for liver abscess operation by using an oval silver flexible drainage-tube, which possesses the advantage of not kinking. Dr. MacLeod has also introduced a trocar and cannula which can be introduced upon a guiding rod, by which means failure to reach the pus, after the needle of the aspirator has proved pus to be present, is well-nigh impossible. (See Journal of Tropical Medicine, Nov. 15, 1900.) (2) Operation by Incisions.—A liver abscess can be reached by way of the abdomen (laparo- tomy) or by way of the chest wall. Both of these operations have been so severely con- demned by those who have had experience of operations for liver abscess that it seems un- necessary to continue to mention them. Dr. Manson, Colonel Kenneth MacLeod of Netley, and Dr. Neil MacLeod of Shanghai, have all spoken and written so strongly on the subject that there seems no justification for regarding cutting operations seriously. The writer is also thoroughly in accord with these authorities. VOL. V When the tumour formed by the liver abscess is felt in the epigastrium or anywhere in the wall of the ahdoynen the abscess may be reached by cutting down upon it directly. The prelimi- nary steps are those necessary for an ordinary laparotomy. An incision is made, some 4 inches long, over the most prominent part of the tumour. (a) When the peritoneum is reached and opened the pus may at once flow from the wound. This is due to close apposition or adhesions between the liver and abdominal wall, and is what may be termed the " old method " of dealing with liver abscess when the disease was allowed to develop (if the patient lived as long) until the abscess bulged in the epigastrium or the right hypochondrium. With our modern methods of treatment such a state of develop- ment should never be allowed to obtain ; as for one case in which a favourable issue ensues, there are many which succumb to some one of the many possible contingencies consequent upon allowing the abscess to run an unchecked course. (Ij) When the peritoneum is opened and the liver is seen at the bottom of the wound, and the outline of an abscess can be traced, one of two measures can be taken. (1) Should the abscess appear as likely to burst soon, the sur- rounding parts of the wound should be packed with gauze or sponges, the whole pressed down upon the liver, and the abscess incised. (2) Should the abscess seem less likely to burst immediately, the wound may be packed with gauze, dressed, and bandaged, with the idea of allowing adhesions to form between the liver and parietes. Every day the wound should be inspected, and if the abscess threatens to point very decidedly it should be opened ; but if the indications are not urgent the wound may be kept open for three or four more days before the abscess is cut into. It is doubtful whether twenty-four hours is not long enough, unless the abscess is very large. With a small abscess there is little danger of the liver retracting with even the slight adhesions formed after twenty-four hours; but if the abscess is enor- mous, the liver may recede and leave a gap by which the pus may reach the peritoneal cavity. But even with a large abscess equable pressure on the abdominal wall will probably suffice to prevent the retraction of the liver, and, after a few days, barriers of lymph will develop and obviate danger of extravasation. (c) When the peritoneum is opened, the liver exposed, and no abscess is to be seen, or the presence of pus indicated in any way, the needle of an aspirator is to be introduced into the liver in search of pus. When it is found, one of two measures may be undertaken. (1) The wound may be packed around its circumference with sponges or gauze, the abscess incised, emptied, the margins of wound stitched to the margins of the abdominal wound, and a large drainage- 33