LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 221 The funnel-shaped pelvis means a pelvis with- out disease of the bones, in which the transverse dimensions lessen in size from above downwards. Only two specimens of this deformity had, up to 1889, been described. The accounts of clinical observers would make one think that this pelvis must be commoner in practice than it is in Fig. 27.—Diagram of cavity of funnel-shaped pelvis in sagittal plane: continuous line, normal pelvis; dotted line, funnel- shaped pelvis. AB, true conjugate ; AC, diagonal conjugate ; CD, antero-posterior diameter of outlet. museums. But the difficulty in diagnosis is so great—for we have no means of accurately measuring during life the transverse diameters of the pelvis—that clinical accounts can only be accepted when it is evident that the repoi-ter has been aware of the great probability of error. If labour is lingering, and the cause seems to be that the advance of the head is blocked by a narrow pelvic outlet, the treatment is to help • I I I I I I I • I c c c c Fig. 28.—Diagram of cavity of funnel-shaped pelvis in coronal plane: continuous line, normal pelvis; dotted line, funnel- shaped pelvis. AA, Iliac crests ; BB, transverse diameter of brim ; CC, Inner surface of tubera ischii. delivery by pulling with forceps. If this fail, cephalotripsy is the only resource. After de- livery the pelvis should be measured; and the patient told to come for advice, should a sub- sequent pregnancy occur, not later than the seventh month. The obliqiie pelvis of Naegele is a rare pelvis, the shape of which is altered by a defect in ossification. The defect consists in imperfect development, on one side only, of the lateral part of the sacrum and the adjacent part of the ilium, and ossification of the sacro-iliac synchon- drosis on that side. We know nothing as to the cause or date of the developmental defect. Its effect is to bring the acetabulum, on the affected side, nearer the middle line than in the normal pelvis, and nearer the middle line than the acetabulum on the opposite side. I have Fig. 29.—Obliquely contracted pelvis of Naegel^. already pointed out that the femora press the acetabula upwards and outwards. The farther out are the acetabula, the more effective is the outward thrust; hence on the diseased side the thrust of the femur is mainly upwards, and but little outwards. On the sound side the outward pressure acts with greater advantage and the upward pressure with less; hence on the sound side the acetabulum is pushed farther outwards than usual, the wing of the ilium looks more forwards and less inwards, and the A Fig. 30. — Diagram of the brim of Fig. 29: continuous line, normal pelvis; dotted line, oblique pelvis. BB, sacrum; CC, acetabulo; A, symphysis pubis. symphysis pubis is pulled towards the sound side. There is no deformity in any other part of the body. There is no history of injury, disease, or lameness, and the patient presents, when clothed, no peculiarity of aspect or gait. Hence the existence of this pelvis is not suspected until it is discovered on obstetrical examination during pregnancy or labour. The diagnosis of the oblique pelvis of NaegeM is to be made (1) by feeling the oiitline of the iliac crests, perceiving their asymmetry and