84 JOINTS, DISEASES OF V. Hysterical or Mimetic Joint Affections Under this heading Sir Benjamin Brodie in 1822 described a rare aiFection of joints, characterised by the prominence of the sub- jective symptoms and the absence of any pathological changes in the joint. Although chiefly met with in young adult single women and widows, with impressionable nervous sys- tems, and more often in those of good social circumstances, it occurs occasionally in robust women, and even in men. The onset may be referred to injury or exposure to cold, or it may be associated with some disturbance of the emotions or of the generative organs, or it may result from an involuntary imitation of the symptoms of organic joint disease presented by another patient. It is characteristic that the features develop abruptly without sufficient cause, that they should be exaggerated and wanting in harmony with one another, and that they do not corre- spond with the typical features of any of the known forms of organic disease. In some cases the only complaint is of severe neuralgic pains ; more often these are associated with excessive tenderness and with impairment of the functions of the joint. On examination, the joint presents a normal appearance, but the skin over it is remarkably sensitive: the slightest touch is more likely to excite pain than deeper and firmer pressure over those points which are usually tender in ordinary forms of organic joint disease. Stiffness is a variable feature : in some cases it may amount to absolute rigidity, so that no ordinary force will elicit movement at the joint. It is characteristic of this, as of other neuroses, that the symptoms come and go without apparent reason. When the patient's attention is diverted the pain and stiffness may disappear. There is never any actual swelling of the joint, although there may be an appearance of this from wasting of the muscles above and below. If the joint is kept rigid for long periods secondary contracture may occur, in the knee with flexion, in the hip with flexion and adduction. Attempts at movement may then cause cracking noises. Months or years may elapse without any further developments. The diar/nosis is often a matter of considerable difficulty, for there are organic lesions, e.g. a tuberculous focus in the bone close to a joint, which may cause vague neuralgic pains for months or years before rupturing into the articulation. Examination with the Rdntgen rays, and of the joint imder chloroform, may assist in difficult cases, but there are cases on record in which an experienced surgeon has been obliged to perform an exploratory opera- tion in order to make a definite diagnosis. The greatest difficulty is met with in the knee, where the condition may closely resemble tuberculous disease. The treatment, besides that directed to the constitution of the patient, chiefly consists in improving the nutrition of the affected limb by means of massage and baths, and electricity. Splints are to be avoided. In refractory cases considerable benefit may follow the application of Corrigan's button or the actual cautery. Complete recovery is the rule. VI. Tumours and Cysts Innocent tumours of the synovial membrane, whether fatty, fibrous, or cartilaginous, are not recognised as distinct from the overgrowth of the corresponding tissues in certain chronic forms of joint disease, e.g. arthritis deformans. Sarcoma of the synovial membrane has been chiefly met with in the knee, and has been nearly always mistaken for synovial tuberculosis. One case is recorded in which a localised sarcoma of the synovial membrane gave rise to the symptoms of loose body in the knee. The usual treatment has been to cut away the synovial membrane, and so far as the recorded cases go it has been quite successful. The spindle and round-celled sarcomata are much more malignant than the myeloid. Cysts of joints constitute an ill-defined group. They include ganglia which form in relation to the capsular ligament, most commonly on the outer aspect of the knee-joint in the interval between the bones and in front of the tendon of the biceps (see "Knee-Joint, Diseases of"). Cystic distention of the hmsce which communicate with the joint is most often met with in relation to the knee in cases of long-standing hydrops. It has been maintained that similiar cystic swellings may result from the hernial protrusion of the synovial membrane between the stretched fibres of the capsular ligament, and the name " Baker's cysts " has been applied to them, after Morrant Baker who first described them. In the majority of cases these cysts give rise to little inconvenience, and may be left alone. If interfered with at all, they should be excised. VII. Loose Bodies While there is probably no more controversial subject in surgical pathology than the origin and nature of loose bodies, their clinical aspects and treatment are qviite clear and straight- forward. It is convenient to group them anatomically into two great classes : those com- posed of fibrin, and those composed of organised connective tissue. I. Fibrinous Loose Bodies (corpora ory- zoidea). These are homogeneous or concentrically laminated masses of fibrin, sometimes quite irregular in shape, sometimes resemblmg rice grains, melon seeds, or adhesive wafers ; usually present in large numbers, they are sometimes solitary and may then attain considerable dimensions. They are not peculiar to joints