398 LEUCOCYTH^MIA and dogs do not give positive results with in- oculation, though it may be remarlced that in the dog and cat spontaneous leucocythfemia has been observed. Lowit's method of demon- strating the "parasite" is as follows. Films are thoroughly fixed by heating them for one to one and a half hours at 110°-115° C. (alcohol must not be used, though, curiously enough, in the tissues the parasites show best in alcohol- hardened organs!), then stained for half an hour in a concentrated watery solution of thionin at room temperature, washed, dried, differentiated for 10-20 seconds in iodine 1 part, iodide of potash 2 parts, Aq. dest. 300 parts, washed in water, dried, and mounted in balsam. The parasites are then of a green colour. Lowit points out their resemblances to and differences from all enclosures and plasmolytic products— the distinction is evidently difficult—and he also makes the damaging admission that the stain does not succeed well when it is freshly made, but only when yeasts and other fungi have developed in it! Of course the first essen- tial in a stain used to demonstrate organisms is that it must itself be free from organisms. Lowit's idea of pathogenesis is that when the organism is once introduced to the blood it lives in the leucocytes, renders them functionless, and idtimately destroys them. They are then re- placed by fresh leucocytes from the marrow; but these in tm-n become provender for the parasites, and so a vicious circle is set up. Curiously, however, he entirely overlooks the fact that, on his showing, all leucocythsemias should be lymphjemias; for the parasite lives in and demands lymphocytes, and he gives no explanation of the presence of myelocytes or eosinophiles. We know definitely, however, that the marrow supplies only those cells which are asked of it. I am afraid Lowit's views cannot be accepted, partly for the reasons I have interpolated in describing them, but also because the bodies he figures present no common morphological characters, and, incidentally, have no resem- blance to the malaria parasite. He seems to have figvired everything which stained in the desired way, and has evidently included all sorts of objects. Some of these rnay be para- sites, but we have no means of knowing which. At the German congress of physicians, in April of this year, Tiirck suggested that Lowit's bodies are artefacts, produced from the gran- ules of the basophile leucocytes, or mast-cells, by the method he employs. This view would quite explain their presence in myelsemic blood and organs, where, as I have pointed out, basophiles are numerous; their absence from lymphfemic blood, where no basophiles are found; and their occasional presence in lym- phtemic organs. Ehrlich and other speakers supported Turck, and my own observations point in the same direction. Earlier observers had described amoebae or other parasites as the cause of leucocythsemia, but none of them have made good their case. Another question of much importance is that of the relation of leucocytheemia to Hodgkin's disease, or pseudo-leukeemia, as it is called in Germany. This will be discussed when the latter disease has been described (Lymphade- noma). Diagnosis.—This depends ultimately in every case upon the examination of stained films of the blood, and the careful observation of the kinds of leucocytes present. A fresh film does not enable us to distinguish the condition from a large leucocytosis, and there are many condi- tions which cause splenic or glandular enlarge- ment which may be associated with leucocytosis. Of course a leucocyte count of 500,000 or so per c.mm. would put the matter beyond doubt, but it is not in cases with large leucocyte counts that doubt is likely to arise. It is in the numerous cases where the leucocytes, either temporarily or permanently, do not rise above, say, 100,000 or less, or where a remission or an intercurrent affection has brought the leucocytes down to normal and altered the general appear- ance of the film, that difficulty occurs, and there are some cases where the minutest care in examining the films and in weighing the evi- dence derived from them is necessary to arrive at a correct diagnosis. It must be remembered that the early symptoms of the chronic disease may be gastric, intestinal, respiratory, or cardiac, and that these may appear before the spleen or glands have enlarged sufficiently to attract attention. It ought, of course, to be a rule that the blood should be examined in all obscure cases, and it may be borne in mind that while a fresh film will not always enable us to diagnose the condition with certainty, it will at all events give either negative evi- dence or a warning that a fuller examination is necessary. Enlargement of the spleen in the malarial cachexia, in splenic anaemia, in tumours and waxy disease of the spleen, tumours of the kidney and suprarenal body, and hydro- nephrosis may all give rise to error until the blood is examined, and in the same way the enlargement of lymphatic glands in chronic tuberculosis and in lymphadenoma may simu- late the lymphaemic form of the disease. One caution that must be given in regard to this is that it is necessary to remember that in children the percentage of lymphocytes in the blood is much higher than in adults; but even in very young children it seldom rises above 50 per cent, while in lymphaemia the per- centage is always over 80, usually over 90. The more acute a lymphaemia is, the less likely is it to be diagnosed. The fact that leuco- cythaemia may be an acute disease, possibly fatal in a few days, is not yet widely recog-