470 LIVER, DISEASES OF Tuberculous disease of the liver is of little clinical importance. Inasmuch as it gives rise to no characteristic symptoms it cannot be diagnosed during life, except in generalised tuberculosis, and then only on the grounds that the liver is in most instances affected along with the rest of the body. The infrequency with which tuberculous lesions, other than miliary tubercles in the course of generalised tuberculosis, are found in the liver might suggest that the liver is specially inimical to the growth of the tubercle bacillus. It has, however, been shown experimentally by Sargent that the bile is not more antagonistic to tubercle bacilli than to other micro-organisms. The most probable explanation why tubercle of the liver is comparatively rare, except as part of generalised tuberculosis, is that the liver does not lie in the direct line of the lymphatic vessels carrying lymph and tuber- culous infection from the intestines. If it were the recipient of the lymphatics of the intestines it would probably suffer as frequently as the mesenteric glands. The lymphatic vessels in the portal fissure convey lymph out of the liver towards the lymphatic glands at the hilum, hence tuberculous infection from the intestine would have to extend against the lymph stream. This does take place in rare instances. Hepatic tuberculosis may be divided into— (i.) Miliary tuberculosis, part of a general heemic infection. (ii.) Local tuberculosis (a) Involving the bile ducts. (6) Solitary tubercle, not involving the bile ducts. Miliary Tubercles in Generalised Tuberculosis. —In generalised tuberculosis the liver is jDractically always affected, though sometimes the miliary tubercles are few and difficult to detect. More recent and careful observations tend to show that the liver is very frequently affected in tuberculous disease of other parts of the body; thus it is said that miliary tubercles are present in the liver in 50 per cent of the fatal cases of phthisis (Zehlen); this roughly corresponds with the frequency of tuberculous ulceration of the intestines in phthisis. In generalised tuberculosis the bacilli reach the liver by the hepatic artery, and give rise to a widespread eruption of grey miliary tubercles. These grey tubercles, which are better seen on the surface of the liver than on section of the organ, are situated inside the lobules, and thus differ from the local tuberculous formations found in the portal spaces. The liver is rather increased in weight and somewhat swollen. There may be some recent inflammation of the capsule of the organ due to the irritation of miliary tubercles. There are no clinical signs or symptoms that can be relied upon to indicate the presence of miliary tubercles in the liver. Jaundice has occasionally been observed to coincide with the development of miliary tubercle in the liver in the course of phthisis and generalised tuber- culosis ; but this is so rare, and miliary tuberculosis so common, that it is an interesting rather than a valuable observation. The onset of jaundice in tuberculosis would certainly suggest hepatic infection, but the absence of jaundice would not contraindicate its existence. When tubercles are present on the capsule auscultation may reveal a friction rub. Local Tuberculosis. — Under this heading come the cases where tuberculosis is more chronic, and leads to more advanced changes than in miliary tuberculosis. A few words may be said about the sources of infection. The weight of evidence is in favour of the view that the bacilli are derived from the intestinal tract, and carried to the liver by the portal vein. Sargent insists on the occurrence of tuberculous pylephlebitis and thrombosis in the portal spaces as a prelude to the develop- ment of tuberculous foci. It has been suggested that tubercle bacilli from the duodenum pass up the bile ducts, work their way through the mucous membrane of the ducts into the portal spaces, and there give rise to the formation of caseous tubercles. This view, which on the face of it was improbable from the absence of motility on the part of the tubercle bacilli, has been disproved by Sargent's experiments of injecting tubercle bacilli into the bile ducts; these showed that unless the walls of the ducts were previously damaged, as by ligature, they did not allow tubercle bacilli to pass through them. It is noticeable that the extrahepatic ducts are not affected by tubercle except in the rarest instances, and that there is no condition of ascending or descending tuber- culous cholangitis to correspond with tuberculous disease of the ureter. A tuberculous gland in thehilum of theliver has been known to burst into the common bile duct. It is doubtful whether tubercle is often con- veyed into the liver by means of the lymphatic vessels, though tuberculous lymphatic glands in the hilum of the liver are, it is true, sometimes seen in cases of tuberculous enteritis. It is also unlikely that tubercle bacilli pass in througli the capsule, in cases of tuberculous peritonitis, sufficiently far to set up the tuber- culous deposits. In some cases tubercle bacilli in small quanti- ties reach the liver by the hepatic artery— just as they are conveyed to bones that later become affected with tuberculous osteitis, without any accompanying acute generalised tuberculosis —and produce a local caseous focus of a chronic character in the liver.