KNEE-JOINT, INJURIES OF 151 Mr. Eames, in the Brit. Med. Jour., April 21, 1900, mentions five cases of complete forward dislocation of knee all occurring at the same time, and caused by a fall down the shaft of a mine, and describes the appearances. The following were prominent signs:— Great deformity. Condyles of femur prominent and projecting back. The skin behind joint on the point of bursting. The skin of popliteal space may be torn across without opening joint cavity. Head of tibia and fibula on anterior surface of femur and drawn up 2 inches. A varying amount of effusion and extensive ecchymosis. A fracture of tibia or femur near joint may accompany dislocation. Reduction as a rule is easily accomplished under an anaesthetic by combined traction and direct pressure. Treatment.—The limb should be placed in a flexed position on a splint or simply on pillows, arranging the limb in a position of greatest comfort. Hot anodyne fomentations or ice-bags should then be applied until the synovitis and extravasation have disappeared, which usually takes place in eight to fourteen days. During this time the toes should be watched for any sign of gangrene. Then a well-fitting leather knee-cap, extending well above and below the joint, should be fitted on, and at the same time gentle massage and passive movements com- menced and continued daily. Any return of synovitis and pain would necessitate a cessation of massage initil it subsided. After three to five weeks active movement may be gradually carried out. The splint should be worn for five or six months or longer, the recovery of full strength in the limb being often long post- poned. Recovery may be accompanied by persistent oedema and eczema of foot and leg. Compound dislocations and those cases where gangrene threatens may require amputation. Spontaneous Remirrent Dislocation of the Knee-Joint.—This very rare condition may be met with in infants. Dr. J. W. Ballantyne records a case in which the child, by simple pressure of one leg on the other, could slip the knee in and out laterally. A retentive apparatus was applied, and at sixteen months the child could walk well and had no tendency to dislocation. The condition is ascribed to congenital laxity of capsular and other ligamentous structures. Pathological dislocations occur in connection with advanced disease of the knee-joint, the head of the tibia commonly passing backward and outward. Congenital fixed dislocations may be met with, and are associated with rudimentary develop- ment or absence of the patella, or with obvious deformities of the articular surfaces of the femur and tibia. Dislocation of Patella.—The patella is a sesamoid bone developed in the quadriceps tendon, and is not firmly fixed at the sides. Dislocation, which is rare, appears frequently to depend on some congenital defect in the patella or femur, especially of the external condyle, and usually takes place to the outer side, on account of the patella resting more on the outer than inner condyle, more especially if there be a tendency to knock-knee. The dislocation is incomjylete when the joint surfaces remain in contact, and comjjlete when the patella rests wholly on the outer surface of the condyle, the edge or one or other of the surfaces being in contact with the condyle. The dislocation may occur when the hnee is extended, from strong contraction of the quadriceps causing the patella to glide directly over the outer condyle, or dnYvng fiexion from a blow on the inner side of the bone, the force causing the patella to slide laterally in the groove between the femur and tibia. Vei-tical dislocation consists in the rotation of the patella on its vertical axis through an angle of 90°, so that one or other border rests in the groove between the condyles. It is described as inward or oiitward according as the cartilaginous surface of the patella is directed to the inner or outer side of the joint. It is usually due to direct violence, though occasionally to muscular action. The inward variety is perhaps the more common. The bone may be twisted completely round, the articular surface becoming anterior. Diagnosis is usually easy, except perhaps in the rare condition of a complete rotation of the bone. Treatment. — Reduction as a rule readily effected by direct pressure after relaxation of the quadriceps, by extending the knee and flex- ing the hip. There may, however, be consider- able difficulty in vertical dislocations. After reduction a leather knee-cap should be worn, well padded over external condyle to prevent return of the dislocation. Operative treatment has until lately been as a rule unsuccessful. Recently mooring of the patella to the inner side of the joint after division of the capsule on the outer side has been followed by permanent success. Dislocation of the Semilunar Cartilages.—Of the two cartilages, the internal is displaced twice as often as the external, and this is ascribed to the following facts: (a) that it is more firmly fixed than the external; (h) that a greater degree of rotation outward is possible, thus greater strain can be brought to bear on its attachments ; (c) that the ordinary position of the foot and leg lends itself to a greater liability to the production of outward rotation. Usually the anterior attachment is torn; very rarely is the cartilage completely detached or divided. Production.—The injury is produced by strong rotation of the lower end of the femur when the