LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF 197 from the uterus, while the bleeding is stopped by the closure of the mouths of the vessels. Thus it is the physician's duty to promote contraction of the uterus, in order to cause the expulsion of placenta and any blood-clots, also to arrest haemorrhage and prevent air getting into the uterus. To PROMOTE Contraction of the Uterus.— As soon as the child is separated the patient should be turned on to her back, and a small vessel, such as a saucer or soap-dish, placed under the vulva to catch any haemorrhage. In order to have the uterus completely under control and to promote contractions, the palm of the physician's left hand should be laid over the fundus. With the ulnar border pressed downwards towards the promontory of the sacrum and the thumb lying over the anterior surface, the whole body of the uterus is thus within the grasp of the hand, and it is impossible for the cavity to become distended with blood- clot during the intervals between the contrac- tions. A uniform pressure exerted over the fundus is better than light touching on the surface, as this is apt to set up irregular con- tractions. The uterus is found lying midway between the symphysis and umbilicus. The method of separation of the placenta, and the diagnostic points showing when it is in the vagina, have been fully described (p. 167). The Removal of the Placenta.—The pla- centa may be got rid of in various ways :— 1. Nature's unaided efforts. 2. Crede or Dublin method of delivery. 3. Removal of the placenta by hand. 4. Traction upon the cord. Nature s unaided efforts are somewhat tedious. When the placenta has been expelled into the vagina, which usually occurs within twenty minutes of the birth of the child, it lies there, and is slowly extruded by the action of the abdominal muscles. This process frequently takes several hours, and for this reason the third stage is invariably shortened artificially. Crede's or the Dubliri method of delivery is certainly the best artificial means we have of delivering the placenta. If practised as soon as the child is born, that is, before the separa- tion of the placenta, post-partum haemorrhage is very apt to occur as the mouths of the vessels will not have had time to close. There is also some danger of portions of the placenta being left behind. If we wait from fifteen to twenty minutes the placenta will have had time to be extruded into the vagina, when expression is perfectly safe. The physician grasps the uterus firmly during one of its contractions, and then first presses backwards and downwards, and then changes the pressure to a forward movement, by which means the placenta is expelled through the vulva. As the placenta appears it should be taken hold of by the nurse and turned rapidly round and round to form the membranes into a cord, thus diminishing the chance of their tearing. The twisted membranes usually slip out at once; if there is any difficulty, wait until the uterus relaxes and they will slip out easily. Jiemoval of the Placenta hy Hand. — If the placenta is still in the utei'us (retained), the methods of its removal are described (see Re- tention of Placenta). If it is lying in the vagina, there is no advantage to be gained over the method of delivery by expression. Traction on the cord is the worst of all methods of delivery. If the placenta is not detached from the uterus before the traction is effected, the central portion is pulled oft' the uterine wall, thus creating a vacuum into which the blood is poured from the sinuses; and if the traction is at all excessive owing to the placenta being adherent, inversion of the uterus may quite likely result. If the placenta is in the vagina, the method is safe enough, bvit is more apt to cause retention of membranes than the other methods. Examination of Placenta and Membranes.— The placenta on its removal should be placed in a basin of water and submitted to a routine exami- nation. Firstly, the maternal surface. If the maternal side is entire, it will form a continuous surface when held upwards on the two hands; but if a lobe or part of a lobe is left behind, the surface will be correspondingly irregular. The continuous edge of the amnion round the pla- centa should next be examined in case it should be incomplete. If a pair of lacerated vessels ai-e seen at the placental edge, this denotes a placenta succenturiata somewhere; if this is not found outside, it must still be in the uterus. Then in- spect the membranes. The sac of the amnion and chorion can be separated from one another without much difficulty, and, if split up com- pletely, it can easily be seen if the chorion is attached all round to the placenta. Should it appear that everything has not come away, the uterus and vagina must be explored by the hand (see Retention of Placenta). The perineum should now be carefully ex- amined for any tears, and if there is any injury involving more than the fourchette, it should be sewn up at once (see Injuries to Generative Organs). Management after Delivery For about half an hour after delivery the hand must be kept over the fundus to prevent it becoming filled with clots. If the uterus become flabby and lose its outline, the doctor must grasp and knead the uterus firmly until a contraction is set up. This manipulation of the uterus, besides preventing haemorrhage some- what, relieves the severity of after-pains in multiparae. Enjot may be given to further guard against