LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 500 Marienbad purgative waters, any one of which may be employed instead of the plain salt. The sulphate of magnesia or any of the purga- tive soda or potassium preparations may be used. The popular remedies, seidlitz powder (pulv. tartarat. efFerves.), Rochelle salts (soda tartarata), and cream of tartar (potas. tartras acida) are each and all efficient medicines. These saline preparations are invaluable in hepatic congestion. Their several actions may be classified as :—(1) Simply purgative—un- loading the bowel and carrying off" the bile. (2) Increasing peristalsis. (3) Hydragogue purgatives—draining the portal system of fluid. (4) Cholagogues—increasing the flow of bile by directly acting on the liver. (5) Alkalisers of the urine—a most important factor in counter- acting the evils of the excess of uric acid in the blood and urine. (6) Prophylactic agents in the prevention of gout. Mercurial preparations have been and are employed more extensively than any other drug in hepatic congestion. Blue pill, calomel, and pil. hydrar. subchloridi co. are the usual forms of exhibition. Mercurials are not direct cholagogues—-that is, they do not directly stimulate the flow of bile; but by imloading the intestine, they carry off" the bile acids by the bowel and necessitate functional activity on the part of the hepatic cells to supply the de- ficiency induced. Cholagogues given in the stage of active con- gestion or inflammation of the liver can only do harm ; their administration is an attempt to stimulate a diseased organ when rest is indi- cated. The chloride of ammonium in 20-grain doses is a drug of considerable value in hepatic ailments. It serves as a gastro-intestinal and hepatic stimulant, but it is also no mean diuretic; and whilst it actually increases the acid of the urine, it helps to free the system of urea and uric acid, a valuable element in treatment in such conditions of the liver. It possesses the advantage of retaining its activity in both alkaline and acid mixture, and may be advan- tageously exhibited with both. Cholagogues, when the acuteness of the illness has subsided, are of undoubted benefit. The liver excitement is followed by an inhibition of function which, unless overcome, will tend towards anaemia, dyspepsia, and debility. Rhubarb is one of the best of these ; 3-grain doses of the rhubarb root, given thrice daily after meals, serves as a cholagogue and intestinal stimulant. It is better used thus than as a purgative. Direct cholagogues of vegetable origin and endowed with purgative or cathartic powers are such drugs as—podophyllin, aloes, scammony, jalap, colocynth, iridin, euonymin, and perhaps ipe- cacuanha. These are called for occasionally in liver derangements, especially of a chronic nature, but their habitual use is deleterious. Of the salts, the sulphates and phosphate of sodium are most distinctly direct cholagogues. Nitro-hydrochloric acid is one of the most favourite remedies in hepatic torpidity. Apart from its action as a sialagogue, and as a digestive adjuvant, the acid is a cholagogue of the first importance. Combined with strychnia, chloride of ammonium, and a vegetable tonic such as gentian, nitro-hydrochloric acid in 4 to 10 minim doses, given thrice daily in water, and given soon after, or sipped at, meals, is a chola- gogue and digestive mixture of high value in torpidity of the liver, in the state of functional desuetude after congestion or hepatitis, and in cases of tropical liver. Nor is the action con- fined to the good gained by internal administra- tion only. Sponging the body with an acidulated solution (8 fl. oz. of nitro-hydrochloric acid to 1 gallon of water), or employed as a foot bath or as a wet pack to the abdomen, are highly recommended as adjuncts to its internal use. The acid bath at a temperature of 98° F. may be continued for half an hour morning and evening, or the wet pack may be kept on the abdomen for two hours, night and morning. Murchison directs that the same bath may be used on three or four successive occasions, a drachm or two of fresh nitro-hydrochloric acid being added on each occasion the bath is used to make up for the waste. For the bath, wooden or glazed earthenware should be used instead of metal baths, and all towels and sponges used in the bath should be wrung out, and kept in cold water to prevent the acid destroying their texture. Absti-action of Blood in Liver Derangements.— In every form of active liver engorgement it is probable that abstraction of blood does good. Phlebotomy was extensively practised at one time, and the total neglect of this very ra- tional mode of treatment is to be condemned. The writer has, in cases of hypersemia and hepatitis, employed it with benefit. Ten to fifteen ounces of blood, drawn from the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow, seems to be as efficacious as the smaller quantities usually drawn by local depletion. Eight or ten leeches applied over the region of the liver, and the bleeding further encouraged by hot fomentations, is also a potent remedy. A few leeches applied round the anus is perhaps more rational and physiologically correct, as thereby the portal system is presumed to be directly drained of its blood. Direct abstraction of blood from the liver by the hollow needle of an aspirator is by far the most eff"ective and satisfactory method of blood-letting. For simple bilious congestion it is not required; but in hepatitis, in the acute congestion associated with alcoholism, and in congestions from mechanical causes associated with great hypertrophy, it is invaluable. The needle of the aspirator may have to be introduced into two, three, four, or more places before a vein