LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 234 separated by a larger interval than before the operation, the patient can nevertheless stand and walk well. In some cases symphysiotomy lias permanently so enlarged the pelvis that the patient has been naturally delivered after- wards. The cases in which permanent lameness has followed have been those in which the two pubic bones have been separated excessively, so that the ilio-sacral articulation has been injured. Thirdly, the possibility of injury to the bladder or urethra, resulting in persistent want of con- trol over the bladder. This ill consequence is liable to follow when the pubic bones are too widely pulled apart, and the soft parts between them too much stretched and consequently torn. It is to be prevented by estimating the relative size of the fa^tal liead and the pelvis before deciding on the method of delivery, and choosing symphysiotomy only if it is certain that the head can pass through the pelvis after this operation. Fourthly, the longer time during which the patient has to lie in bed after symphysiotomy ; four weeks, as opposed to two weeks after natural delivery. There is really little in this objection; because, although a woman can get up two weeks after natural delivery, few women can fully discharge their household duties so soon. The time from de- livery to restoration of full working power is about the same whatever the method of delivery, if the method chosen is the right one. Slight Pelvic Contraction.—Consider, lastly, the case of a patient whose pelvis is not so much contracted that it can be said at once that an operation of some kind is necessary for delivery. Thoiigh the pelvis is under normal size, the disproportion between the pelvis and the head is not so great as to put natural delivery out of the question. The first point is to take greater care than usual to prevent premature rupture of the membranes. When the patient is up- right the weight of the amniotic fluid helps the uterine contractions to burst the membranes; therefore the patient should be kept on her side in the semi-prone position. In this position the weight of the waters no longer is added to the force of the uterine contractions. If the patient can be got to rest on her knees and elbows, the weight of the waters opposes and partly neutralises the effect of the uterine contractions. The patient should be told not to sti-ain. The attendant should be careful in examining not to injure the membranes. Next, it is needful to bear in mind the difficulty which the head has in engaging in a contracted pelvis; the ease with which in such a pelvis it may get dis- placed, even if it were over the brim at the beginning of labour ; and the liability, even if the head present, of its being forced into an unfavourable position, such as a face or brow presentation. Therefore care should be taken to see that the long axis of the uterus is as nearly as possible a continuation of that of the pelvic brim. Lateral obliquity of the uterus should be corrected by making the patient lie on the side opposite to that towards which the uterus leans. If there be pendulous belly, the patient should be put on her back and a firm binder applied. If the position of the child is still unfavourable it should be, if possible, corrected by external manipulations. Contrac- tion of the pelvis brings with it no special tendency to abnormalities of the pains, but the effects of too weak or too strong pains are more serious than if bony obstruction to the passage of the child is absent. Weak pains, which with a pelvis and child of average size would have only made the labour long, will, if the pelvis be contracted, fail to make the head enter the brim. On the other hand, if the pains ai'e too strong, danger of rupture of the uterus will arise early. Hence in contracted pelves the course of the labour must be watched with greater care than usual, that an abnormal course of labour may be early perceived and early treated. If the membranes rupture early, as is often the case, before the os uteri is near full dilata- tion, and the head does not come into the os uteri to stretch it open, the best course is to artificially dilate the cervix with Champetier's bag. Then when the os uteri is fully dilated, the child can be delivered either by forceps or turning. The entry of the head may be made easier by putting the patient in what is called " Walcher's position" ; that is, in the dorsal position on rather a high bed so that the legs may hang down with the toes just touching the floor. This position extends the pelvis upon the spine, rotating it about a transverse axis passing- through the sacro-iliac synchondroses, and thereby enlarges the conjugate by about from i to f of an inch. It at the same time diminishes the antero-posterior diameter at the outlet; so that there is no advantage, biit the reverse, in the patient's retaining this position after the head has entered the pelvic cavity. There has been discussion as to the relative merits of delivery by forceps and by turning when the head is presenting in a flat pelvis. With a small round pelvis, and the head pre- senting, if the head can enter the pelvis no one questions that if help is needed it should be given with forceps. But as to the best way of delivery in flat pelves, there has been a differ- ence in the teaching of different schools. It has been pointed out, and is admitted, that the passage of the head base first is easier, because when the parietal bones are pressed together from below upwards the angle they form at the sagittal suture is made more acute, and the transverse measurements of the head are dim- inished (see Fig. 24). When the child is born head first the resistance to the advance of the