LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM 170 Inspection and Palpation.—The uterus at the beginning of the examination may be found in a state of contraction or of relaxation. In either case valuable evidence can be gained. During Contraction. — If it is tense, the general outline of the uterus can be readily seen and felt, and its long axis made out; but the parts of the child cannot be recognised. The lie of the child, longitudinal or trans- verse, however, can be ascertained; and at the of the uterus. Each hand thus makes counter- pressure against which the other can^^work (Fig. 16). Supposing the child to be in a longitudinal lie, and that the hands fall about the middle of the uterine length, the first thing noticed in a case favourable for examination is that on one side, the left (of the woman) in the most common position of the child, there is a firm, even surface; on the other side the Fig.16. same time, although it may not be a question of importance as regards the future mechanism, the presence of a fibroid tumour in the acces- sible parts of the uterus would probably be discovered. Deviations of the uterus from the normal axis, which, as will be seen later, influence the mechan- ism of labour, are easily made out, and steps may be taken now or later to diminish or change feeling is that of a somewhat soft elasticity. The resistant feeling is caused by the under- lying back ; the softer one is produced by a space filled with liquor amnii, existing between the two incurved poles of the foetus. If the two hands are now moved up higher on the abdomen, still lying opposite to one another (Fig. 17), the back of the child can be traced up to the fimdus uteri, feeling pi-etty*much alike Fig. 17. the side of any such deviation if it is likely to interfere with the normal course of labour. During Relaxation.—It is when the uterus is relaxed, however, that the most valuable information can be gained. The exact relation of the child to the mother's pelvis, and its attitude, can in a large majority of cases be distinctly made out. Position of Observer.—It is best to stand at first on the right hand of the patient, looking towards her head. The hands should be laid flat on her abdomen, one lying over each side in all its length, and following the curve of the fundus on merging into the breech ; while on the right side of the mother the left hand is able to make out some irregular knobs, which are the feet, and perhaps the knees of the child. The limbs may often be felt and seen to move, both by the observer and by the mother. It will be noticed that the mergence of back into breech, as the right hand is moved upwards, is an imperceptible one, differing considerably from the sensation conveyed where the head is at the fundus.