71 JOINTS, DISEASES OF citing factor causing displacement; this may be the accumulation of fluid in the joint or of granulations filling up the socket, or the in- voluntary contraction of muscles or some movement or twist of the limb. In some cases the occurrence of dislocation is favoured by destructive changes in the bones, e.g. diminution in the size of the head of the femur, and enlarge- ment or actual destruction of a portion of the socket of the acetabulum. The dislocation may be complete or incomplete. It may take place gradually and insidiously, or suddenly, especially when it results from some slight form of ex- ternal violence, or the spasmodic contraction of muscles acting on the joint. Rarer Forms of Synovial Tuberculosis.—While the diffuse thickening of the synovial membrane, above described, is the most common form of synovial tuberculosis, there are others worthy of mention. The synovial membrane may present nodular masses or lumps, resembling the tuberculous tumours met with in the brain ; they project into the cavity of the joint, may be pedunculated, and may give rise to the symptoms of loose body. In rare instances the fringes of the synovial membrane may undergo a remarkable development, like that observed in arthritis deformans, and may deserve the name arho7'escent lipoma. Both these types are met with in the knee-joint. The Contents of Tuhercidoths Joints.—In a large proportion of cases of synovial tuberculosis the joint cavity is entirely occupied by the diffuse thickening of the synovial membrane, and there is an absence of fluid in the joint. In a small number there is an abundant serous exudation., as in a pleurisy, and the condition is known clinically as hydrops. There may be a considerable formation of fibrin within the joint, covering the free surface of the membrane, and floating in the fluid as shapeless flakes or masses ; under the influence of joint movements they may assume the shape of melon seed bodies {corpora oryzoidea). More rarely the joint contains tuberculous pus, and the surface of the synovial membrane resembles the wall of a cold abscess (empyema of joints). Periarticular Tubercle and Periarticular Abscesses.—These may result from the eruption on the periosteal surface of foci in the interior of the bones, or from the extension of foci in the synovial membrane into the surrounding cellular tissue, either by direct continuity or by way of the lymphatics. A collection of pus within the joint may perforate the capsule and infect the tissues outside the joint. The periarticular abscesses, after spreading in various directions, finally reach the skin surface and give rise to tortuous sinuses; the more distant sinuses may be the result of the spread of tuberculosis along the tendon sheaths in the vicinity of the joint. Reactive changes in the vicinity of tuberculous joints are of common occurrence, and play a considerable part in the production of what is known clinically as v}hite swelling. New con- nective tissue forms amidst the periarticular fat and between muscles and tendons; it may be fibrous and tough, or it may be soft, vascular, and oedematous; the periarticular fat may become swollen and gelatinous, constituting a layer of considerable thickness, in which tubercle may be entirely absent. This is commonly known as gelatinotis degeneration. It is sup- posed that the fat disappears and is replaced by a mucoid effusion between the fibrous bundles of connective tissue, these changes resulting from interference with the circulation and nutrition of the tissues concerned. In the case of the wrist the newly-formed connective tissue may fix the tendons in their sheaths, and may seriously interfere with the movements of the fingers. In relation to the bones there may be reactive changes, resulting in the formation of spicules or scales of new bone on the periosteal surfaces and at the attachment of the capsular and other ligaments. Terminations and Sequelae of Tuberculous Diseases of Joints.—The disease may cure at any stage, the tuberculous tissue being replaced by healthy connective and scar tissue. Recovery is apt to be attended with impairment of move- ment even in mild forms of the disease. This may depend upon limited adhesions, or upon ankylosis, or upon contraction of the periarticular structures. Encapsulated caseous foci in the interior of the bones may remain latent indefinitely, or may be the cause of a relapse of the disease at any future period. Elongation of the shafts of the bones of the affected limb may result from the stimulation of growth at the epiphysial junctions, but it is much rarer than in the staphylococcus osteomyelitis of young children. Interference with growth is more common; it may involve only the epiphysial junctions in the immediate vicinity of the joint affected, or it may involve all the bones of the limb: this is well seen in adults who have suffered from disease of the hip in childhood— the entire limb, including the foot, may be shorter and smaller than the corresponding parts of the opposite side. Atrophic conditions are also met with from prolonged disuse of the limb; the bones may undergo fatty atrophy, with enlargement of the medullary canal, and marrow spaces, and thinning of the rigid framework; in extreme cases the bones may be cut with a knife or may sustain spon- taneous fracture. This is to be borne in mind in forcible manipulations of stiff joints. These atrophic conditions are recovered from when the limb resumes its normal functions. Relative Frequency of Tuberculous Disease in different Joints.—Available statistics enable us to place the various joints in the following order of frequency : spine, knee, hip, ankle and tarsus,