158 LABOUK, PHYSIOLOGY OF lower pole of the ovum separated from the uterine wall. As a result, the lower pole of the ovum is exposed and presents. This normally consists of the membranes and a quantity of contained liquor amnii, the so-called bag of forewaters. After full dilatation of the cervix the bag of forewaters iisually ruptures. From the close adaptation of the soft parts of the pelvic canal around the presenting part (girdle of contact), the liquor amnii which surrounds the foetus in the uterine cavity is prevented from escaping en masse along with the forewaters. During the subsequent stages of labour it escapes gradually. Its retention is of much value in preventing a complete moulding of the uterine wall to the body of the foetus, which would thus seriously compress the placenta and obstruct the circulation within it. Full dilatation of the cervix and rupture of the membranes, with escape of forewaters, terminates the first stage, and descent of the foetus now commences. The duration of the first stage varies greatly. As can only be expected, it is normally much longer in primipara3 from want of previous dilatation. Calculating from the time when pains occur at fairly regular intervals of from five to seven minutes, the average first stage may be described as occupying eight to ten hours in a primipara, and five to seven hours in a multipara. Descent of the foetus now commences, and opposition is off"ered by the bony pelvis and pelvic floor. The former is overcome by a process of accommodation of the presenting part to the irregular passages, in the course of which a complicated though definite mechanism is undergone and described (see p. 174). This mechanism of accommodation is entirely due to the combined efforts of the powers and resilient pelvic floor. The presenting part is impelled downwards during the pains, and through the resiliency of the pelvic floor recoils after each contraction ceases. By this means a constant up-and-down movement is maintained, which favours and secures the transit of the presenting part through the most available channel. At the same time, by means of the pliability of the presenting part it becomes moulded, and thus adapted to the varying available space. The passage of the child through the compact pelvic floor is rendered possible by the mobility of its pubic and sacral segments. The former is drawn iipwards by the retraction of the uterus, while the latter is forced downwards by the pressure of the advancing part, as if by a folding-door mechanism ; the door is thus opened up and the expulsion of the child facilitated. The descent of the foetus is almost entirely confined to the presenting head; the breech or upper pole of the foetal ovoid may be found to be exactly at the same level when the head appears at the vulva as at the commencement of labour. This is explained by the pliability of the foetal ovoid, which, from the pressure exercised upon it from all sides except at its lower pole, is elongated by the straightening of its vertebral column (Figs. 6, 7, 8). After the birth of the head a short interval of rest occurs, after which contractions recur, and the body is expelled. The duration of the normal second stage may be said to average three hours in a Fig. 6.—Commencing labour, showing complete attitude of fcietal flexion. primipara, and two hours in a woman who has previously borne children. During and after the expulsion of the foetus the tonic retraction of the uterus causes it to firmly compress the decreasing uterine contents. Thus, after the birth of the child the uterus closely surrounds the secundines (placenta and membranes). Intermittent uterine contractions continue, and cause their separation by dim- inishing the area of attachment, and after separation expel them into the vagina, from which they are forced by the unaided action of the secondary powers, and born. The tonic retraction of the uterus permanently maintains the closure of the uterine sinuses at the site of the separated placenta, and thus prevents excessive hsemorrhage, while recurring inter- mittent contractions expel from the uterus any blood which may ooze. Separation of the placenta does not commence till after the birth of the child, and is attained by a process of what is known as detrusion. This consists in the extensive diminution of the