236 LABOUR, PEECIPITATE AND PROLONGED dilate, and the patient will be delivered naturally. If, however, from any cause, such as malposition or excessive size of the child, or contraction of the pelvis, the presenting part of the child comes not down to stretch open the os uteri, further help is needed, and this is best given by the in- sertion of Champetier de Ribes' water-bag. The mechanical action of this instrument in dilating the OS uteri is the same as that of the natural bag of membranes, which it effectively replaces. It may be (3) because labour has come on pre- maturely. When labour comes on at the full term the os internum has already been dilated during the preparatory or so-called " secret" stage of labour, so that the first stage of labour consists in the dilatation of the external os only ; but in labour which has come on, or been in- duced, prematurely, the os internum is not dilated, and the first stage consists in the dilata- tion first of the internal and then of the external OS. It consequently is slow. The treatment of this consists in letting the bag of membranes, and then the presenting part of the child, have plenty of time in which to open up the cer- vical canal. If the bag of membranes bursts too soon, and the head or breech enters not the OS uteri, then it should be dilated with Champetier's bag. Contracted pelvis, large size of the child, and abnormal presentations are indii'ectly causes of slow dilatation of the soft parts, because they prevent the head from coming down into the cervix uteri, and thus lead to premature rupture of membranes, so that neither bag of membranes nor foetal head dilates the os. The natural shape of the os uteri externum is that of a transverse slit. In a few women it is small and round ; and it may be so small that a probe will not enter it. If pregnancy take place in such a uterus, the bag of membranes cannot get into the os uteri. In such cases, labour pains may continue for twenty-four or thirty-six hours without producing any appreciable dilatation of the OS uteri. The treatment of such cases is to dilate the os uteri, first with bougies, and then with the finger, until the bag of membranes can get into it. Labour pains that have been going on for many hours will have made the os uteri big enough to admit a bougie. When the bag of membranes is able to enter the os uteri dila- tation goes on with normal rapidity. The cervix uteri may dilate badly because it is diseased. It may be contracted by cicatricial tissue. The tears in the cervix by which a first labour is generally completed do not contract the OS uteri, but rather widen it, for the scar tissue binds together the mucous membrane of the vaginal aspect and that of the cervical canal. But when part of the cervix has been destroyed by ulceration, syphilitic or other, or by slough- ing, then cicatricial tissue may form part of the circumference of the os; and fibrous cica- tricial tissue is incapable of stretching. The possibility of dilatation of the os uteri, and the rate at which such dilatation will go on, depend on the proportion of healthy tissue to scar tissue in the cervix uteri. If the scar tissue only forms a small part of the ring of the os, the healthy tissue may be capable of stretching enough to let the child pass. But if the whole or the greater part of the os uteri is bounded by cicatricial tissue, natural dilatation cannot be hoped for, and the os uteri must be enlarged by incision. A probe-pointed bistoury is the best instrument to use. The edge should be guarded by wrapping it with strapping up to the terminal inch. With it several incisions should be made radiating from the centre of the os, and then delivery completed by pulling upon the pole of the foetal ovoid which presents: either upon the head with forceps, or upon the breech by means of the leg. Pregnancy may take place in a uterus the subject of cancer of the cervix. Whether sucli disease retards dilatation of the cervix or not depends upon its hardness, not upon its extent. Some cancers are much harder than others. One case has been published in which the cancer was so hard that the cervix dilated not, labour pains, after long continuing ineffective, ceased, and the child was retained in the womb for ten months afterwards. Others have been observed in which the whole cervix and adjacent tissues were a mass of cancer, and yet delivery was quick and easy. Hence in the treatment of labour complicated with cancer of the cervix, the only guide is observation of the course of labour. If the cervix opens up quickly no treatment is required. If early in labour it is noticed that the cervix is very hard, and that the bag of membranes has no effect upon it, the patient should be delivered by Csesarean section. The forcible dragging of a child through a hard mass of pelvic cancer entails a risk to the mother which is probably as great as that of Caesarean section when performed under favour- able conditions. Csesarean section, if the child is living, will deliver it alive. In cancer of the cervix, unless the disease can be removed, the mother will die soon, probably after much suffering; so that this is a case in which the life of the child may be considered as more valu- able than that of the mother. If the cancer is limited to the vaginal portion of the cervix, this should be amputated notwithstanding the pregnancy. If it is not discovered till the patient is in labour, and the greater part of the cervix is healthy, the healthy part of the cervix will dilate and the child be born naturally. When child and placenta have been expelled (assuming that there is no doubt as to the diagnosis, and as to the limitation of the disease to the uterus), the uterus should be at once removed by the vagina. Experience has shown that the uterus can be easily and safely removed immediately after delivery, for although the