191 LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF Pots or boxes of so-called antiseptic vaseline give a false sense of security ; they are usually far from being aseptic, having been contami- nated by discharge and blood-stained fingers. A collapsible tube of carbolic acid (1 in 40) and glycerine, or a 1 in 500 mixture of cor- rosive sublimate and glycerine, are perfectly safe. The benefit of having the lubricant in the tube lies in the fact that it cannot get soiled by dirty fingers. Carbolic acid is the more useful, as it can be used for forceps ; if the sublimate is used the mercury is deposited on the instrument. Cleansing of Ai^pliances and InstrumenU.— Vaginal nozzles are best made of glass, and should be boiled for at least five minutes before use. The catheter to be used should be new. Before and after using, both these instruments should be washed and kept in an antiseptic solution—-1 in 40 carbolic, or 1 in 1000 sublimate. Mackintosh sheets must be washed over with carbolic before being put on to the bed, and bed-pans should be carefully washed and dis- infected before and after use. All the instruments to be used should be of metal, so that they can stand being boiled; and this should be done for five minutes, and after boiling they are immersed in an antiseptic solution. Cleansing of the Patient.—This must be thoroughly carried out to ensure that the douche, or clean fingers of the doctor or nurse, or the nozzle of the douche, will not get con- taminated from bacteria round the external genitals, and thus carry infection into the vagina. At the commencement of labour, and before any examination is made, the nurse should thoroughly wash with soap and water, and then rub over with a 1 in 40 carbolic lotion, or wash off" the soap, and then scrub with a 1 in 1000 corrosive sublimate. This washing of the external parts is most important, and must be repeated from time to time if the labour is long, and is also necessary at least once daily during the puerperium. An old sponge or loofah should not be used for this, but rather a new piece of flannel, or a bit of absorbent wool or tow. If flannel be used, it must be washed out and kept in solution until required; the wool and tow can be burnt. If any operation is to be done which entails the hand or instruments passing into the uterus, the vagina must be disinfected as well. This would not be necessary if we could be certain that the vaginal discharge is normal, but it so often is swarming with bacteria that are capable of becoming pathogenic when introduced into the uterus. To do this douche the vagina (see infra), then scrub it all round with the fingers and a small piece of soap, and then repeat the douche. Douching.—Krbnig, when making experi- ments on the normal vaginal secretion, found that after douching with plain water the germicidal action was lessened, and after a corrosive sublimate douche the action was destroyed, probably by precipitating the albu- min. Thus it seems that hot\\ ante-partum and post-partum douching, apart from being quite unnecessary as routine work in a normal case, may actually do harm. Careful douching is, however, indicated under the following con- ditions :— Ante^a7-tum.—1. When there is an offensive or purulent discharge from the vagina, e.g. of venereal cancer, etc. 2. In cases where any operation or mani^mla- tion is to be performed in the uterus. 3. If the liquor amnii has lain long in the vagina during a prolonged labour it may begin to decompose, therefore douching is advisable. Post'partmn. — 1. Where any operation or 'manipulation has taken place inside the os uteri during labour. This category includes cases where forceps have been applied to a head above the brim, internal version, induction of prema- ture labour, removal of retained or adherent placenta or membranes. 2. In some cases where the membranes have rupytured early, and the labour is unduly pro- longed. Owing to the loss of liquor amnii during the long period there will be none left to wash out the vagina after the child's birth. 3. If the foetus has been putrid. 4. In all cases where there has been a purulent discharge either before or during labour. 5. Any time during the puerperium if the lochia become foetid. 6. Cases of post-partum hoemcyrrhage. Here, however, the object of the douche is not so much its antiseptic or cleansing property as the promotion of uterine contractions so as to arrest hsemorrhage. The Composition of the Douche.—Its anti- septic properties are only of use by keeping the water in the douche antiseptic. The antiseptic substance does not remain long enough in the vagina to destroy the bacteria. The water used should be boiled, allowed to cool, and strained through muslin. Corrosive sublimate is not of much use for douching purposes : if used before labour, it renders the tissues rough and more rigid; after delivery, if used too strong, or if any is left behind, it may cause symptoms of mercurial poisoning (spongy gums, foul breath, diarrhoea, and abdominal pain). The strength of this substance should be, if used, from 1 in 5000 to 1 in 8000 ; if stronger, the symptoms of poisoning are very apt to appear. Members of the phenol groups of substances are more satisfactory : carbolic acid 1 in 60, or creoliii 1 fea-spioonful to the quart of water. This latter is an exceedingly safe and useful substance, and, being non-poisonous, can be used always. The douche should be given by means of a