LIVER, DISEASES OF 466 as in pernicious anfemia. Cirrhosis does not occur as the result of leuksemia. In some instances small white nodules like tubercles are seen scattered through the liver; microscopi- cally they are composed of accumulations of leucocytes. In the later stages of leuksemia ascites is not uncommonly present. It has been suggested that this may be due to pressure of leucocytic infiltration on the intrahepatic branches of the portal vein, or to pressure of enlarged glands in the portal fissure on the portal vein; but it seems to me more probable that it is due to some concomitant chronic peritonitis, and to the cardiac debility and altered blood state. It is possible that ascites might be in some degree determined by thrombosis in the terminal branches of the portal vein in the liver. The diagnosis of leuktemic infiltration of the liver depends on an examination of the blood. This should be done in a doubtful case of pain- less hepatic enlargement, in order to prevent the disease being regarded as lardaceous disease, and treated with iodide of potassium. Prognosis.—As leukeemic enlargement of the liver is a more constant result of the lymphatic form, and as this is more rapidly fatal than the spleno-medullary variety, the prognostic value of hepatic enlargement in leuktemia is of bad omen. The treatment is, of course, that of leukaemia. Innocent Tumours Adenoma of the Liver— (i.) True 466 (ii.) Multiple Adenoma in Cirrhosis . 466 Angioma ...... 468 Lipoma, Teratoma, etc. . . . .468 Adenoma of the Liver This subject is divided into two—(1) true adenoma; (2) so-called multiple adenomata, which may be considered as a compensatory hyper- plasia of the liver-cells occurring in cirrhosis of the liver. True Adenoma. — An innocent encapsuled growth of epithelial cells may occur in the liver, but is decidedly rare ; pathologically they are of great interest, but clinically they seldom attract attention. True adenomata may, theoretically, be divided according to their structure into— (i.) Those composed of liver-cells, or of cells derived from the ordinary cells of the hepatic parenchyma. (ii.) Those derived from the bile ducts. (iii.) Those due to the inclusion of adrenal " rests." (i.) An adenomatous tumour composed of liver-cells, apart from the multiple growths of this kind seen in association with cirrhosis, is very rare. Such growths may be spoken of as acinous adenomata in contradistinction to those derived from the bile ducts. Mahomed described a localised collection of cells surrounded by a fibrous capsule embedded in the liver, which was "nutmeg"; the tumour did not share in this general change. I have seen one similar specimen. Hale White refers to an adenoma 1^ inch in diameter projecting from the sur- face of the liver; the specimen is in the Guy's Hospital Museum. Specimens have also been described by Engelhardt and others. Possibly these tumours, which are pathological curiosities, may be due to some piece of liver substance separated during foetal life from the main mass of the liver becoming subsequently embedded in the organ. Not infrequently small projections of liver substance, miniature lobes, are seen on the under surface of the liver; if these became implanted in the substance of the liver, the appearance of an encapsuled adenoma, composed of liver-cells, would be produced. Cristiani refers to the existence of multiple nodules of hepatic tissue embedded under Glisson's capsule, which have been explained as congenital, and due to the inclusion of tiny lobes. Multiple areas of hyperplasia of the liver-cells or adenomatous formations have been seen in a nutmeg liver without any cirrhosis (Jacobi). (ii.) An adenomatous tumour derived from the bile ducts. A papilloma springing from the inside of the extra-hepatic bile ducts would come under this heading. At present tumours arising from the bile ducts, indenting and displacing but not invading the surrounding liver substance, concern us; they may be described as tubular adenomata. They may be single or multiple. Single.—A single adenoma of the bile ducts may reach a size sufficient to imitate a tumour such as a hydatid or floating kidney. Cases have been recorded by Keen, Koenig, and Schmidt. Keen removed a cystic adenoma thought to be derived from the bile ducts from a women aged thirty-one, in 1891 ; as she was alive in 1899, the exceptional nature of the growth cannot be explained by supposing it to be a carcinoma. Clinically it was thought to be a floating kidney. Multiple. — In rare cases multiple small tumours are met with, imitating the structure of bile ducts (v. Hippel). It has been thought by some that the condition of multiple cystic disease of the liver is really a fibro-adenoma derived from the bile ducts. (iii.) Possibly an included adrenal rest might give rise to a tumour that would be best described as an adenoma. Multiple Adenomata in Cirrhosis Synonyms : Cirrhosis complicated with ade- noma, Cancer with cirrhosis; Nodular cirrhosis. History. — This condition was studied by Rokitansky, Kelsch and Kiener, Sabourin, Cornil and Ranvier, Hanot, and others.