64 JOINTS, DISEASES OF the cartilage being frequently followed by exposure and disintegration of the subjacent bone. The changes which precede and follow upon the ulceration of the cartilage vary with the joint disease of which it is an accompani- ment ; their consideration is beyond the scope of the present article. The occurrence of ulcera- tion of cartilage and of articular caries is always attended with characteristic clinical features, viz., the joint is held rigid by the involuntary contraction of muscles, the wasting of muscles is more pronounced, and there are "starting pains " at night. Advanced articular caries is usually associated with some deformed attitude, with shortening, and sometimes with dislocation. It may be possible under anaesthesia to make the exposed and crumbling bony surfaces grate upon one another. Should recovery take place, repair will usually be attended with fusion of the opposing articular surfaces by fibrous tissue or by bone. Disorganisation of a joint is a convenient description of the condition in which all the constituent parts are damaged or destroyed. It results from the more severe and destructive forms of joint disease, and especially those of pyogenic or tuberculous origin. Conditions of Impaired Mobility of Joints. —(1) Rigidity implies the fixation of a joint by the involuntary contraction of muscles; it is sometimes called false ankylosis, because it entirely disappears under antesthesia. (2) Contracture is the term applied when the fixation of the joint is due to permanent pathological changes in the soft parts surround- ing it, chiefly consisting in the shortening of muscles, tendons, tendon sheaths, ligaments, fasciae, and skin ; the parts on the flexor aspect are more liable to shortening, hence contracture is nearly always associated with flexion. Con- tracture results from a number of conditions, apart from disease of the joint concerned, e.g. disease in one or other of the adjacent bones, lesions of the motor nervous mechanism, hysteria, etc. (3) Ankylosis is the term applied to the stiffness or immobility of a joint when it results from changes involving the articular and other surfaces which normally move or glide upon one another. It is frequently combined with contracture and with thickening and induration of the capsular and other liga- ments. Three anatomical varieties of ankylosis are distinguished: (a) the fibrous, in which there are fibrous adhesions between the opposing surfaces ; these adhesions may be loose or tight, may be localised in the form of bands, or diffuse, altogether obliterating the cavity of the joint; the stiffness may vary, therefore, from restric- tion of the normal range of movement up to close fibrous union of the bones which may prevent any movement whatsoever. Fibrous ankylosis may result from injury, especially dislocations and fractures implicating a joint. or from disease, e.g. pyogenic, gonorrhoeal, tuberculous, rheumatic, gouty, or other form of arthritis, {b) Cartilaginous ankylosis implies the fusion of two opposed cartilaginous surfaces ; it is best seen between the patella and trochlear surface of the femur, and between the femoral condyles and articular facets of the tibia in certain forms of tuberculous disease of the knee. Clinically it is associated with absolute rigidity of the joint, (c) £o7iy ankylosis (synostosis) implies an osseous union between articulating surfaces; it may be a sequel of the preceding forms, or it may result from a more direct fusion of two opposing surfaces subsequent to their having been bared of their cartilage. In the majority of cases it is to be regarded as a reparative process, and as presenting analogies with the union of fractures. It may be a sequel of almost any one of the diseases known to affect joints. Its occurrence is not necessarily dependent upon antecedent suppuration in the joint, as was formerly believed; it has been observed to follow the pyogenic, gonorrhoeal, tuberculous, syphilitic, gouty, and neuropathic affections of joints. It is doubtful if it occurs in the spinal arthropathies apart from super- added infection; in arthritis deformans it is also questionable if the articular surfaces ever become united by bone, although it is common to have complete fixation of the vertebral and other joints by the ossification of ligaments and other extra-articular structures (external or peripheral ankylosis). While in most cases the occurrence of true bony ankylosis is readily explained by changes resulting from antecedent disease, the pathology of certain rarer forms is quite unknown. Ankylosis may certainly occur apart from any recognised reparative process, and may coexist with other trophic changes in the skeleton of imknown origin. The name arthritis ossificans has been applied by Griffiths to a certain group of these exceptional cases. The origin of ankylosis from simple disuse of a joint has not been corroborated. It is important to bear in mind that in any example of bony ankylosis there are associated changes in the soft parts which, if the limit be fixed in a vicious attitude, will render futile any operative interference solely directed to the bones concerned. Ankylosis of a joint before the skeleton has attained maturity, has very little influence on the growth in length of the bones affected ; any arrest of growth is more likely to depend on changes in the epiphysial junctions resulting from the original disease. In the diagnosis between false and true ankylosis it may be necessary to anaesthetise the patient. The nature and extent of true ankylosis may be learned from manipulations of the limb or by skiagraphy. In fibrous ankylosis mobility may be elicited, although only to a very slight degree; in osseous