420 LIFE INSURANCE 3. A proposal from a woman aged thirty or upwards, pregnant for the first time, should be delayed. 4. A proposal for insurance from a pregnant woman aged forty or upwards, whatever the number of pregnancy, should be delayed. The figures of a maternity hospital can hardly be taken as the average for a community, and especially as the average amongst female lives which are likely to be insured. The worst cases of the lower class community are apt to be attended by the maternity medical ofiicers for many reasons. The outdoor cases are in the most insanitary houses ; that class of the community only engage and send for doctors when the labour is expected to be a severe one, most of the ordinary labours being attended by midwives, or other women with more or less experience, and many of the cases are unmarried females. Although the maternity figures are interesting, they cannot be accepted as conclu- sive. In cases where the candidate is actually pregnant it is safer for the companies to post- pone the insurance, if possible, till after the confinement; but where this cannot be done, and it is necessary to have the insurance com- pleted at once, a special loading-rate on the lines of the above conclusions may be imposed. 4. Habits, Occwpation, etc.—The habits and occupation of the proposer have already been alluded to in various connections. The question of temperance in eating and drinking is one of special importance, especially when considered in connection with a family or personal history of gout, rheumatism, or intemperance. It will at once be seen how important also the occupa- tion of the individual is in this connection. A person whose occupation exposes him constantly to the temptation of " nipping," or taking alchohol frequently, although in small quantities, is very apt to become more and more intemper- ate, and to develop other diseases as the result of his alcoholic habits. It was long ago shown (Registrar - General's Report for 1851) that persons whose occupation exposed them to such temptations died at an earlier age than the average of the community. As long ago as 1876, Stott, from the experience of a well- known company for fifty years, arrived at the conclusion that the mortality amongst publicans and innkeepers, and those connected with the retail liquor trade, was 63 per cent in excess of the Carlisle table, and 68 per cent in excess of the Actuaries' table. He also concluded that the practice of im- posing an extra rate of £1 per cent in this class was necessary, but sufficient to cover the risk. A joint inquiry which was made by the Scottish Life Offices into the mortality of the same class of persons brought out much the same results. The following table shows the annual mortality per cent at the diff"erent ages as compared with the ordinary assured lives :— Annual mortality per cent. Age. Publicans. Other persons. 30 . . 1-48 0-77 40 . . 2-59 1-03 50 . . 3-08 1-60 60 . . 4-59 2-97 The actual deaths exceeded the expected by 83 per cent; the actual deaths being 420, and the expected only 235. With reference also to habits, it is well known that people who lead an outdoor life in the country are healthier than those of more sedentary habit, and especially if the latter are shut up indoors in town. The family and personal history have to be considered along with the habits and occupation. A person having a tendency or predisposition to gout is more liable to suffer from the disease if he has sedentary habits, little exercise, and little out- door life ; and in the same way a person with a family history of phthisis is more likely to escape the disease if he lives an outdoor life, with enough exercise and no unhealthy sur- roundings. On the other hand, if such an individual has an occupation where the air he breathes is contaminated with dust or other impurities, or if he is engaged in an office sitting over a desk where his lungs do not get properly expanded, and he is unable to get sufficient exercise, he is much more likely to become affected with the disease. It is well known that some occupations are more healthy than others, and many statistics have been collected showing the rate of mortality among different classes of the community. The figures of Dr. Bertillon in France and of Dr. William Ogle in England bring out practically the same result. They show the enormous mortality amongst certain workers. According to Ogle, if clergymen be taken as the standard and represented by 100, then the mortality may be represented as 169 among commercial clerks, 108 amongst gardeners, 114 amongst farmers, 158 amongst shopkeepers, 189 amongst tailors, 143 amongst fishermen, 267 amongst cabmen, 160 amongst coal-miners, 222 amongst qiiarrymen, 211 amongst butchers, 300 amongst file makers, 229 amongst scissor makers, 314 amongst earthenware makers, 397 amongst inn and hotel servants, etc. 5. The jilace of residence of the individual insuring has to be considered by the insurance company, as it is well known that some countries are healthier than others, and the death-rate of different countries varies. In tropical countries the inhabitants do not live so long as they do in temperate climates, and this applies more especially to Europeans who reside in tropical countries. Michael Levi made the calculation that there is 1 death annually amongst every 25 of the population from the equator to the 20th degree of latitude, 1 in 35 from the 20th.