164 LABOUR, STAGES AND DURATION The contractions of the uterine muscle fibres, or the " labour pains" as they are generally termed, are involuntary, occur intermittently, cause a varying degree of pain, and sweep over the organ as a peristaltic wave. The effect of a contraction upon the shape of the uterus is to cause a diminution of the transverse diameters, and an increase in the longitudinal diameters and in the thickness of the walls; the effect upon the cavity of the uterus is to cause a diminution in the size of the latter. The result of this diminution is to cause increased pressure upon the ovum, and, as the latter is incom- pressible, to force it in the direction of least resistance. Various factors combine in making the region of the internal os the area of least resistance to the advance of the ovum, and consequently the lower pole of the ovum tends to advance in this direction. The duration of a contraction is from three to ten seconds, and the interval between two contractions may at the commencement of labour be an hour or more, while, as the second stage approaches, they may occur every ten to twenty minutes. While the uterine contractions are at work intermittently diminishing the size of the uterine cavity, there is another change taking place in the fibres which results in the permanent diminution of the cavity. This is the occur- rence of retraction, and, as it is a most im- portant process, it is well to devote a few lines to a description of it. The uterus consists of two distinct regions or segments—the upper uterine segment and the lower uterine segment. The upper segment—whose main function is to expel the fojtus—contains the contractile fibres of the litems ; the lower segment—whose main function is to expand in order to allow the passage of the foetus—contains but a very small proportion of contractile fibres, and so may be regarded as the non-contractile segment of the uterus. The junction between the two is known as the contraction ring, or sometimes as the ring of Bandl. The latter term, however, implies the acceptance of Bandl's theory as to its origin, and unless we are prepared to accept this, it is better to use a term which does not tie us to a fixed theory. At the commencement of labour the contraction ring is situated slightly above the internal os, and during the whole labour it is rising progressively higher on the uterus, so that—in an extreme case where some obstruc- tion to delivery existed, and labour was conse- quently much prolonged—the contraction ring might be found at the region of the umbilicus. The gradual rising of the ring upwards is associated with an equally gradual thickening and shortening of the upper or contractile seg- ment, and a similar thinning and lengthening of the lower segment. This change is the effect of retraction, and retraction itself may be described as a process by which the muscle fibres do not return to their full length after each contraction, but remain slightly shortened. There is probably also an actual change of position of the fibres, at least in their relation- ship to one another; so that those which at the commencement of labour were lying end to end, after some little time lie with their ends over- lapping, and after a longer time may even lie side by side. The retraction of the fibres always occurs towards the fundus, or, in other words, the contraction ring always tends to move upwards towards the fundus. The ring can be felt through the abdominal wall, as a depression running obliquely across the uterus, in those cases in which labour has been very strong or unduly prolonged. In normal labours it can rarely be felt, as it does not rise sufficiently high above the symphysis pubis. It is most essential to be able to recognise the presence of the contraction ring, as it furnishes an absolute indication of the effect of the uterine contraction upon the uterine wall. The taking up and the dilatation of the cervix are the essential phenomena of this stage, as is shown by the name usually given to it—the stage of dilatation. The taking up of the cervix is the term applied to the process by which the cervical canal is made continuous with, and so part of, the lower uterine segment. The extent to which this process occurs differs in primiparse and in multiparse, as will be seen by reference to the diagrams. In primiparse, at the commencement of labour the cervix is long, and presents more or less its original outline, having both the external and the internal os closed. The first step con- sists in the dilatation of the internal os, then of the supra-vaginal portion of the cervical canal, and then of the infra-vaginal portion. As soon as this last has occurred the taking up of the cervix is complete, and the uterine and cervical cavities are continuous. The os externum, which now forms the uterine orifice, is still undilated. In multiparse, on the other hand, at the com- mencement of labour the external os is as a rule sufficiently dilated to admit one or two fingers, and the cervical canal is somewhat everted as the result of former lacerations, etc. Conse- quently, when we examine vaginally the finger passes through the external os, and first is obstructed by the internal os. As soon as labour commences the internal os dilates, and also the supra-vaginal portion of the cervical canal. This as a rule completes the degree of taking up of the cervix which occurs, and the remainder of the cervix, -i.e. the lower portion and the already somewhat dilated os externum, retracts synchronously when the time comes for the uterine orifice to dilate. The result of this difference between primiparse and multiparse, is that in the former when the taking up of the cervix is complete, the uterine orifice is encircled by extremely thin, paper-like edges, formed by