49 ISCHOCHYMIA ISChOChymia,. — Suppression of the gastric secretion. ISCholOChia..—Suppression of the lochial discharge. *See Pubrperium, Pathology {Clini- cal Features, Septicwinia). Isch Uriel.—Retention of urine. See Hysteria {Disorders of the Urinary System); Neurasthenia (Visceral Neurasthenia). Ising'la.SS. — Fish glue or ichthyocoUa, prepared from the swimming bladder of the sturgeon {Acipenser puso); it consists of gelatine; it may be added to tea, soup, etc. in cases of diarrhoea. Isle of Wight. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts (English). ISO-.—In compound words iso- (Gr. i'a-os) has the meaning of equal, e.<j. isobutane, an isomeric form of butane, etc. ISOba,rs. — Lines drawn on maps "con- necting places on the earth's surface at which the barometric pressure is the same in a given time, or on the average for a given period" {New English Dictionary). Isobe. See Balneology {Japian). Isochronous. — Taking place at equal periods of time or at equal intervals. ISOform. — Para-iodo-anisol, Q,^^{QCK^ lOg, a white powder, used internally as a gastric and intestinal antiseptic (dose, 8 grains), and externally in ulcers, syphilitic skin diseases, etc.; it is not employed in the pure state but mixed with calcium phosphate, for alone it is explosive. ISOgenS.—The lines in diagrams showing the various combinations of the ages of the parents which are associated with the same average birth-rate {Ne^o English Dictionary) ; " in natality tables, the ages of the father and the mother take the place of the latitudes and longitudes in weather charts, and lines of similar birth-rates, or, as I would call them, 'isogens,' take the place of isobars" {F. Galton, 1894). Isolation. See Diphtheria {Isolation and Disinfection ; Smallpox {Isolation Houses). Isomer and Isomeric—In chemistry this term is applied to two substances which contain the same elements in the same pro- portions but with the atoms differently arranged in the molecules, and which have different properties; chemical isomerism is the condition of being thus isomeric, and the substances are called isomers. An Isomere, however, is a segment of a limb in one species of animal homologous to a segment in another species. Isometric Method. —A method of recording the force of contraction during different parts of the contraction period by vol. V making the muscle pull upon a strong spring, the bending of which is recorded by a long lever ; by the isotonic method the muscle acts on a light lever. See Physiology, Tissues {Ifascle). I SO metro pi a.—The condition in which the refraction of both eyes is the same. ISOprai. — Trichlor - isopropyl - alcohol, a useful hypnotic, given in doses of 4 to 30 grs. ; it is a white crystalline substance, soluble to some extent in water but more easily in alcohol and ether, and it has a somewhat unpleasant bitter taste; it is said to be contraindicated in cases of gastric or cardiac disease. ISOtachiol.—A silver salt, with marked antiseptic powers, said to be more stable than tachiol. Isotherms.— Lines drawn on maps or charts through points on the earth's surface having the same mean temperature ; isothermal lines. Isotonic.—In Physiology a distinction is drawn between isometric and isotonic conditions. " If, before and during excitation, its opposite attachments are so fixed that they cannot be brought nearer together by the effort of the muscle to contract, the excitation of the muscle is said to occur imder isometric conditions. If, on the other hand, one end of the muscle is left free, so that it can shorten on excitation, and in so doing lift a weight which is attached to it, the excitation is said to take place under iso- tonic conditions." (Sir J. Burdon-Sanderson in Schafer's Physiology.) ISOtropy. — The condition of being equally endowed with any particular quality in all parts; thus isotropy of the ovum means that the substance of it contains no parts specially set aside to form definite structures in the embryo. The opposite condition is anisotropy, in which, in the case of the ovum, each organ, tissue, and cell of the embryo is regarded as represented by a distinct rudiment. Ispaghula.—Ispaghula or Spogel Seeds {Plantago ovata) are official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia of 1898; the dose is from 50 to 150 grs., and the official prepai'ation is the Decoctum Ispaghulce (dose, I to 2 fl. oz.); the decoctum is a good demulcent, and the seeds can be used like lin- seed to form poultices, for they contain much mucilage. Issue.—An ulcer made artificially for the purpose of discharging and continuing to dis- charge, and so to act as a counter-irritant. Isthmus.—A narrow portion or passage connecting together two parts of an organ of the body, e.g. the isthmus of the tliyroid gland, or of the uterus, or of the Eustachian tube. 4