KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF 135 in doing so, if an osseous focus is discovered it should be cleared out at the same time. Treatment of Extra-articular Tuberculous Foci in the Bon^s.—Intermediate between the con- servative and operative treatment, the question may arise of clearing out osseous foci in the neighbourhood of the knee, either to prevent infection of the joint, or, where this has already taken place, to increase the chances of cure by conservative measures. The great difficulty is to diagnose the foci in question apart from abscess formation, for the symptoms are not at all definite. Local pain, tenderness, thickening, or enlargement of the bone may indicate a focus, especially in the head of the tibia or in the patella. The proper treatment is to cut down on the bone, remove any infected soft parts en masse, clear out the focus in the bone with the spoon, gouge, or chisel, and stuff the cavity with iodoform gauze. If the joint is opened into in this procedure, the technique will depend on the state of the synovial membrane: if healthy, the opening into the joint may be closed with sutures; if there is circumscribed disease of the synovial membrane it may be clipped away; if the thickening of the membrane is more extensive, the joint may be filled with idoform glycerine and closed; if the joint as a whole is diseased, then the case is one for arthrectomy in children or excision in adults. The above described partial operations are especially successfid in children; in the adult they are less certain to cure and more dangerous to life than the more radical operation, viz., excision. Operative Treatment of Tuberculous Disease of the Knee. — The operations concerned are arthrectomy (erasion), excision, and amputation. When the disease has implicated all the structures of the joint, and spontaneous re- covery is unlikely, and is in any case likely to be attended with a stiff joint, it is waste of time to persist with conservative measures when the same result may be obtained with rapidity and certainty by means of an operation which will also at the same time get rid of the disease. Among the indications for ojxrative treatment iri disease of the knee in contrast to other joints, we should therefore place in the front rank the hopelessness of obtaining a movable joint, as inferred from symptoms of destruction of the articular cartilages, rigidity, pain on the slightest attempt at movement, startings at night, and fixation of the patella. In the second rank may be included cases which are unsuited for conservative treatment, e.g. where there is deformity incapable of being rectified otherwise, or when the general health requires that the disease should be removed by the most rapid method. In the third group we should include cases in which the disease progresses in spite of a fair trial of conservative measures, in which the synovial thickening is increasing or is showing signs of softening, or where, from the mere persistence of the disease, there is reason to suspect the existence of serious disease in the bones, or finally, where the disease has relapsed after apparent care under expectant treatment. Other things being equal, the fact of the patient being an adult would determine the balance in favour of operation. Having decided on the necessity of operation, the next and almost equally difficult question to decide is as to its nature. There is considerable difference of opinion regarding the wisdom of aiming at a movable joint, and of recommending arthrectomy with this object in view. Increas- ing experience of the results of this operation shows most conclusively that a movable joint, which will at the same time be useful, is ex- ceedingly rare—so rare, in fact, that the ques- tion of mobility should scarcely be entertained. As has aptly been pointed out by Konig, it is hardly reasonable to expect mobility after removing the entire capsule and synovial membrane, upon which the mobility of the joint depends. There is another side to the question, viz., that the slight extent of mobility secured by an arthrectomy may not always be an advantage to the patient, inasmuch as it may permit of gradually increasing flexion and disabling deformity of the limb. It is also maintained that the disease is more liable to relapse after arthrectomy than after excision, both because the disease is less radically re- moved, and because the remanent mobility ex- poses the limb to strain far more than if there were a rigid ankylosis. The real advantage claimed for arthrectomy is that it not only avoids any immediate shortening of the limb, but also that it does not interfere with its future growth. On these grounds alone it is to be preferred to excision, in patients under fifteen or sixteen years of age. In performing it, however, one must not be hampered with the obligation of aiming at a movable joint; if the articular surfaces are aff'ected they must be pared with a strong knife. After the wound has healed, means must be employed to prevent flexion for a period of two years. If at the end of this period the joint is found to have retained a certain degree of mobility, well and good; but one must not sacrifice the greater certainty of curing the disease and of obtaining a useful limb, for the doubtful advantages of mobility. In adults, the operation of excision is preferred because there is no question of interfering with growth. The ends of the bones are removed by means of a saw, the sections being made in such a way as will secure the most accurate and most rigid adaptation to one another, and the certainty of bony ankylosis. Amputation is indicated, whether in children or in adults, in cases where arthrectomy or excision is incapable of removing