437 LIVER, DISEASES OF 1. Pain and a feeling of weight in the right hypochondrium are very common : the traction exerted by the liver may be transmitted through the diaphragm, pericardium, and cervical fascia to the root of the neck, and be felt there. These symptoms are made worse by exertion and are relieved by lying down. 2. Symptoms imitating Cholelithiasis.—Some- times attacks of colic, which may resemble biliary colic, are met with; they may be ex- plained as due to torsion of the bile ducts, or possibly to concomitant cholelithiasis. In other cases intestinal colic occurs, and is probably due to ptosis of the colon. Jaundice rarely occurs in hepatoptosis; it may be the result of torsion, gall-stones, or be of a simple catarrhal nature. 3. Symptoms imitating Cirrhosis.—Ascites and hsematemesis have been met with, and have been referred to twisting of the portal vein ; in like manner oedema of the feet has been ex- plained by kinking of the inferior vena cava. These symptoms are infrequent. 4. Symptoms referable to the respiratory system are somewhat uncommon. In some instances dyspnoea and asthmatic symptoms appear to depend on hepatoptosis (Max Einhorn). Persistent cough has been found to be associated with displaceable liver, and to be cured when appropriate treatment — the application of a bandage—for the latter condition was adopted (V^ne). 5. In a considerable proportion of the cases the symptoms are not due to hepatoptosis alone, but to complete or partial visceroptosis. Thus the neurasthenic or hysterical manifestations, so commonly associated with visceroptosis, may be most prominent features. In other instances the symptoms are referable to the stomach and intestines, such as dyspepsia, vomiting, consti- pation, flatulence, mucous colitis, etc. Though congestion of a displaceable liver may play a considerable part in the production of these functional disturbances, they are intimately connected with visceroptosis {vide Glenard's disease, article " Enteroptosis"). In other instances the symptoms may be chiefly due to a floating kidney, while in others leucorrhcea, monorrhagia, etc., due to visceroptosis, are com- plained of. Diagnosis. — The presence of a movable tumour resembling the liver, taken into con- junction with evidence that the liver is absent from its normal position, are the essentials in the diagnosis. But care must be taken in dis- tinguishing it from a floating lobe with or without a distended gall-bladder, from simple downward displacement due to factors like pleural effusion (see p. 434), and from enlarge- ment of the liver depending on malignant disease or other causes. One of the most frequent mistakes seems to be to regard as a floating kidney what is in reality a prolapsed liver; the former condition is, of course, more familiar, and may complicate hepatoptosis. In a case of doubt an attempt should be made to replace the movable tumour in the hepatic region, while careful note should be made of the extent of the liver dulness and the relation of the intestines to the tumour. Hepatoptosis has been mistaken for various other abdominal tumours and conditions, such as omental or renal tumours, carcinoma of the stomach, hydatid cysts or malignant disease of the liver, gall-stones, and even for ovarian cysts. Treatment.—A suitable bandage, belt, or ap- paratus should be applied to the abdomen so as to support the abdominal walls and keep the liver in its proper place. Massage and electri- city have been employed in order to strengthen the abdominal muscles and improve their tone. Diet is a matter of importance; generally speaking, the subjects of hepatoptosis are feeble, wanting in tone, and require good and liberal feeding to improve their state of nutrition. When there is decided corpulence, the amount and quality of the food will require careful consideration by the medical attendant. Symptoms of neurasthenia and nervous de- bility should be treated on appropriate lines. Constipation should be met by massage and purges, so as to prevent congestion of the liver and accumulation of bile in the gall-bladder. When all other measures fail to relieve the symptoms, and the patient is quite incapaci- tated, the advisability of surgical interference must be considered. Various methods of fixing the liver permanently in its normal position, or " hepatopexy," have been employed, such as suturing the prolapsed liver to the costal arch or anterior abdominal wall, or fixing the round ligament to the abdominal wall while at the same time promoting adhesions between the convexity of the liver and the diaphragm. The operation has in many cases been successful, bvit should only be undertaken when all other means have failed. The objections to its adoption are (i.) that it hardly affects the underlying conditions responsible for the pro- lapse of the liver, though it may counteract them, and (ii.) that the wound made at the time of the operation may subsequently become the site of a hernial protrusion. This is more likely to occur in old women with pendulous abdominal walls than in younger patients. In any case, an abdominal belt should be worn after the operation. Functional Disease of the Liver In the section on the physiology of the liver the functional importance of the liver has been fully explained, and it is clear that any failure in the discharge of these numerous duties must be followed by definite symptoms. Functional disturbance of the liver is un- doubtedly a frequent occurrence in common with functional disturbance of the other organs