LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 219 it is easily pulled farther. The passage of the promontory is generally — always, in difficult cases — made possible by alteration in the shape of the head. The posterior-lying parietal bone becomes flattened, and driven under the anterior, and also under the parietal and occi- pital bones. The line along which the head was opposed to the most projecting point of the promontory is often traceable, either by redness and ecchymosis of the skin, or by a groove in the bone. The usual situation of such a groove is along the anterior border of the parietal bone. If the head is soft and has been allowed to remain long stationary at the brim, a deep spoon-shaped dint may be formed at the point where the head rested against the promontory. Lastly, it must be mentioned that the weakest part of the foetal head is the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone; and that where pressure upon, and overriding of bones, is great at this point, such force may lead to laceration of vessels, meningeal hfemor- rhage, and death of the child. Cases are met with in which the child is known to be alive, and is delivered by short but strong pulling with forceps, but dead. In such cases, menin- geal haemorrhage is the usual cause of death. When with a flat pelvis the child is delivered by turning, the after-coming head passes the brim by a mech- anism exactly analogous to that which obtains when the head comes first. The head lies trans- versely, the bi- parietal diameter being at one side of the promon- tory. If there is much resistance to the passage of the head, it be- FIQ. 23 —Showing mark made by pro- COmeS partly ex- montory in delivery of the after- tended When coming liead. (After Ktistner.) ,11 \. mi the head is pulled iipon, the anterior part of the head descends first. Then the projecting sacral promontory holds back the posterior-lying parietal bone, and the anterior side of the head descends first, rotat- ing upon the sacral promontory as a centre ; and then, lastly, the posterior-lying parietal bone slips down, often being grooved or marked in the same way as if the head had come first. In labour with a flat pelvis, a large caput succe- daneum is unusual, nor is there often oedema of the vagina or vulva. Premature rupture of the membranes is common with flat pelves, from causes and with results which are described elsewhere. Abnormal presentations of all kinds are more frequent with flat pelves than with normal pelves; their treatment is described elsewhere. I would only here say that when a face presentation is met with in a flat pelvis, I think the best treatment is podalic version. The mechanism of labour with the small roimd pelvis is in one point in broad contrast with that of labour with the flat pelvis. In the flat pelvis all the difficulty is at the brim; in the small round pelvis there is difficidty throughout the whole pelvic canal. The difficulty is to get the head itito the flat pelvis, to get it ihro'ogh the small round pelvis. In the small round pelvis there is not the liability to abnormal presentation, nor to pre- mature rvipture of the membranes, which the flat pelvis brings with it; for the head readily enters the pelvis, engages in it, and shuts off" the forewaters from the general intra-uterine pressure. In the small round pelvis the head can only get through it in a position of extreme flexion, so that the suboccipito-frontal diameter may be the largest which passes through the pelvic cavity. Hence the posterior fontanelle is lower down and Fig, , 24. — Showing change in shape of liead produced by traction witli base in ad- vance. (See also Fig. 52, p. 235.) FIG. 25.- -Pressure marks on head after a labour with flat pelvis. nearer the middle of the pelvis than usual; and flexion occurs earlier than in normal labours, because it is produced as soon as the head sinks into the pelvis. The head enters the pelvis with its long diameter in the usual oblique diameter of the pelvis, because at the brim this diameter is the longest. At the pelvic outlet the antero- posterior diameter is the longest; and therefore the head, as soon as it gets into the pelvic outlet, turns so that its long diameter occupies the antero- posterior diameter of the outlet. In normal labour a similar turn takes place ; but here the turn is caused by the soft parts, not by the bones, and it occurs not till the head is past the pelvic out-