LIVER, DISEASES OP 456 onset is obscured. (Edema of the feet may precede the ascites or follow it. By the time ascites has developed the patient is already pulled down in strength and weight. The ascites increases in amount, sometimes rapidly, until tapping is required; in pure cirrhosis, without any chronic peritonitis, a second tapping may be required, but rarely more. The ascites then ceases to accumulate, and may indeed disappear, while the patient further emaciates, rapidly loses strength, and eventually passes into a drowsy, typhoid, or comatose condition, which gradually ends in death. The mental apathy is often varied by delirium of a low type. There may be haemor- rhage from hepatic insufficiency not only in the skin, but from the stomach or bowel, which may be very considerable. The patient may linger on in a semi-comatose condition for some weeks, and then die from an acute and terminal infection or from asthenia. On the other hand, death may occur before the stage of ascites has been reached, from some complication or acute infective process. Ex- ceptionally, death may occur from hsematemesis quite early in the course of the disease. Signs of Cirrhosis Facial Aspect 456 Liver ....... 456 Venous Hum . . . . .456 Ascites ....... 456 Circulatory System .... 457 Urine 457 CEdema op Feet ..... 458 Facial Aspect.—The face may be bloated and show acne rosacea due to dyspepsia, either induced by or independent of alcoholism; the area of skin affected is that around the nose and on the cheeks, and roughly corresponds with that involved in lupus erythematosus, the so-called "flush area." The skin of the face elsewhere is muddy and dirty-looking, and often presents stigmata or small clusters of dilated vessels, which sometimes bleed readily on slight provocation, and capillary haemorrhages. The face is drawn and thin, the eyes deeply set, and the conjunctiva muddy or slightly icteric. The wasting of the temporal muscles is often very manifest. These are the appearances usually seen in the later and more advanced stages. At an earlier period the skin may be uniformly pale, sallow, and smooth, and quite free from the blemishes seen in advanced stages. The lips are usually dry and apt to be fissured, the tongue flabby or dry, and the gums show a tendency to become spongy and, when hepatic insuificiency has become established, to bleed. The throat is apt to be chronically congested and the breath foul. The skin of the body is often dry and harsh, with loss of elasticity. Local haemorrhages may occur as the result of slight or unnoticed traumatism. The Liver.—It has been widely assumed that the liver is enlarged in the early stages of the disease, and that subsequently it becomes smaller from shrinking and contraction of the fibrous tissue inside it. This sequence of events is sometimes noted; thus the organ a considerable time before death has been found to be large, while at the post-mortem it has receded behind the costal arch. At the same time it is by no means certain that alterations in size of the organ can be referred solely to the contraction of the added connective tissue; for, in the early stage, the enlargement may vary within a com- paratively short space of time, thus showing that the increase in size is due to engorgement. Before ascites has appeared the liver may usually be felt below the ribs, sometimes several finger-breadths beyond the costal margin in the right nipple line, its surface being firm, slightly irregular, and often tender. In other instances its rough, hobnailed margin can just be felt by pushing the fingers under the margin of the ribs, while sometimes it cannot be felt, and percussion may show that it has apparently diminished in size. Before the onset of ascites tympanitic dis- tension of the abdomen often appears, and, like ascites, prevents accurate palpation of the liver. Venous Hum.—On rare instances a venous hum, louder on inspiration, can be caught over the epigastrium, and has been thought to be due to the presence of dilated vessels in the falciform ligament. In some exceptional cases a similar venous hum, compared to the uterine souffle, has been heard over the spleen. The Spleen may sometimes be definitely felt to be enlarged and firm; but though almost constantly enlarged as shown by examination after death, tympanites or ascites often masks it during life. Considerable enlargement may precede haematemesis, and its detection may therefore be regarded as a danger signal and call for free purgation. Ascites.—The onset is gradual; when it is sudden and rapidly accumulates, it may be due to thrombosis of the portal vein. It may come on shortly after injury, exposure to cold or factors that lower the resistance of the body, or after inflammation elsewhere in the body. But, as a rule, no definite exciting cause is foiind. It occurs in a large proportion of the cases dying from cirrhosis; but taking all cases in which cirrhosis of the liver is found on post-mortem examination, whether fatal from cirrhosis or from some other disease, the proportion is about 50 per cent. Ascites is a late event in the course of cir- rhosis, and patients seldom live to be tapped more than twice. When paracentesis has to be performed frequently in a case regarded as