LARYNX, MALIGNANT DISEASE OF 361 it is limited to the vocal cords, or to their neighbourhood, there can nowadays be no doubt that thyrotomy is the proper procedure. Per- sonal experience, extending over twelve years, has convinced me that if, after the performance of tracheotomy, and the protection of the trachea by means of Hahn's sponge-cannula, and of addi- tional sponges, if necessary, against the entry of blood into the lower air-passages during the operation, the larynx be opened, the two wings of the thyroid held asunder, and the new growth with an area of healthy tissue around every part of its circumference be (after previous cocainisation of the part) thoroughly excised, and the basis of the removed part thoroughly scraped with Volkmann's sharp spoon, not only is the operation reduced to a minimum of risk, but also the chances of absence of recurrence, if the disease should have been still limited, are excellent. (See under Prognosis.) The prospects of the voice after the perform- ance of thyrotomy, if one vocal cord only should have been removed, are also surprisingly good. In the great majority of cases a cicatricial ridge forms in the situation just corresponding to the former place of the removed vocal cord, and on the healthy cord joining this ridge in phonation, a loud and serviceable voice is produced, which sometimes has a hoarse timbre, but in not a few cases is almost normal. Thus one of my patients, a clergyman, from whom eight years ago the whole of the left vocal cord and the front part of the left arytenoid cartilage were removed on account of a fibro-sarcoma, now regu- larly preaches in a church holding four hundred people. To obtain good results, however, it cannot be too strongly insisted upon that no undue sentimentality with regard to the sub- sequent preservation of the voice should be allowed to prevail over considerations of safety with regard to recurrence; and it is absolutely necessary to perform the operation everyvjJiere in the healthy tissue surrounding the growth, and not too near the latter. For further par- ticulars with regard to the technique of the operation I would refer to my various contribu- tions on the subject.^ A further point in connection with the ques- tion of the selection of thyrotomy in this class of cases is this, that under no circumstances should the operator approach the operation with the fixed intention of performing thyrotomy and nothing else. But too frequently one finds 1 "On the Results of Radical Operation for Malignant Disease of the Larynx," Lancet, December 15, 22, 29, 1894 ; "Zur Frage der Radikaloperation bei bosartigen Kehlkopfneubildungen mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der Thyreotomie," Archiv fur Laryngologie, Bd. vi. Heft 3; "Die Thyreotomie bei bosartigen Kehlkopf- neubildungen," Therapie der Gegenivart, April 1899 ; "Einige Bemerkungen zu der neuen Sendziak'schen Statistik iiber die operative Behandlung des Larynx- krebses," Monatschrift fiir Ohrenheilkunde, No. II., 1899. after opening the larynx that the disease is more advanced than one had thought after laryngoscopic examination, and that mere re- moval of the soft parts imder such circumstances was not likely to give a sufficient guarantee against recurrence. In such circumstances resection of parts of cartilages, or even partial extirpation of the larynx, ought to be proceeded with. If the disease should only come under observation at a more advanced stage, if there be already signs of perichondritis, or if there be any doubt as to whether the cartilage itself had become affected, partial extirpation will of course take the place of mere thyrotomy. In still more advanced stages in which both sides of the larynx are affected, or in which the disease, unfortunately, be situated on the pos- terior wall of the larynx, nothing short of total extirpation of the organ, combined, if necessary, with removal of the already affected cervical lymphatic glands, may become imperative. In these cases the principle of commencing the operation by cutting the trachea horizontally and sewing the lower end into the edges of the skin wound, has recently led to a very consider- able diminution of the danger of sepsis after the operation, and to a much greater saving of life. But it need not be said that total extir- pation means a grave mutilation, that an arti- ficial larynx is but a sorry substitute, which, additionally, can apparently be worn at length by a few patients only, and that in those cases in which the lower end of the trachea has been sewn into the external wound a weak, toneless, whispering sound, produced in the pharynx, is the best that can be expected unless an arti- ficial larynx, such as Professor Gluck's new contrivance, be always used. Still, life is valued so highly by many patients, and the surgical progress in treating even much ad- vanced cases of laryngeal cancer, complicated by infiltration of the cervical lymphatic glands, has been of late years so great, that one ought not to dissuade patients from undergoing the operation, but leave the decision to them. In cases, finally, in which the disease starts from the epiglottis or an aryteno-epiglottidean fold, supra-hyoid pharyngotomy would seem to be the least serious operation, and at the same time to completely suffice to remove the growth wi toto. This operation has not hitherto been extensively practised, probably because the cases suitable for it are, on the whole, i-are, and in those cases in which it has been performed a curious fatality has followed; but it may fairly be hoped that by perseverance in it better results will be obtained in the near future. Finally, in such cases in which the patient either refuses to undergo a radical operation or in which he comes under observation too late for such to be recommended, or in cases in which the disease is situated on the oesophageal aspect of the cricoid cartilage,