KNEE-JOINT, INJURIES OF 147 so as to split the tendon vertically between the 1. Atrophy of bone from age, disease ; thinning mentous union, even if the fragments are kept close together. Treatment.—1. Non-operative Procedure.—The hip should be flexed and knee fully extended to relax the quadriceps, and the limb placed on a straight splint, which may be in the form of an inclined plane, or of felt or poroplastic moulded to the back of the limb, and supported or slung to continue the relaxation. If tension in the joint be great the eff'used blood may be removed by aspiration. The fragments should then be brought together, and the torn aponeurosis and clots displaced as far as possible by rubbing the surfaces against each other. The limb should be fixed to the splint, and the fragments kept approximated as nearly as possible by two strips of plaster placed one above each fragment, the ends being crossed and fixed to the splint. Another method is by means of a strip of plaster 8 in. x 3 in., with one end curved to fit above the upper fragment. This is applied, and two elastic bands are fixed to each corner of the plaster, and then stretched on each side of the leg to be fixed to splint lower down. The plaster should be held in position by the bandage fixing the thigh to the splint. The quadriceps should be gently massaged daily, and occasionally a weak faradic current may be applied. After eight weeks the patient may be permitted to walk with crutches, a light splint or leather knee-cap being worn for some months ; massage, and gradually increasing passive and active movement of the joint should be carried ovit daily. Fractures from direct violence, with no displacement of the fragments, should be kept on a splint for three to four weeks, and then passive movements commenced. 2. Operative Procedure. — (a) Malgaigne's hooks, which are now hardly ever used, are inserted into the fragments after preliminary puncture of the skin, and then screwed together. The result is generally fibrous union. (6) Mayo Robson's method consists in the passage of two needles transversely — one through the quadriceps, and the other through the ligamentum patellje, both close to the bone, and wiring the ends together. (c) Twynam, by means of a special curved needle, passes subcutaneously a suture of silk or silver wire round the margin of the fragments, through the quadriceps and ligamentum patellae. The fragments are placed in contact, the encir- cling suture drawn tight, knotted, and cut short. {d) Barker's method of subcutaneous suture is carried out as follows:—A tenotomy knife is passed through skin and middle of ligamentum patellae close to edge of lower fragment. A curved needle on a handle is passed through this track and behind the two fragments, being brought through quadriceps close to the edge of upper fragment to the skin. The skin is incised on the needle, and the knife introduced needle and the edge of patella. The needle is threaded with strong silver wire, and withdrawn with one end of the suture. The needle is then passed between the skin and patella from the first puncture to the other, threaded with the other end of the suture, and again withdrawn. The fragments are approximated and rubbed together to remove clots, the blood in the joint is squeezed out through one of the incisions; the suture is then tied firmly, and the ends cut short. Passive movements may be commenced in three or four days, and the patient should be able to walk in five or six weeks. No splints should be used. (e) Direct suture by opening the joint is the best procedure, so far as perfect coaptation is concerned. Must be done only under rigid aseptic conditions; is especially suited for cases which have not done well under treat- ment by splints. If it is decided to employ this method in a recent fracture, a few days should be allowed to pass to permit the swell- ing to subside, and to enable one to purify the skin. The fragments are best exposed by turning down a flap, which done, the joint should be cleared of clots and dried. The fragments should then be examined, and any drooping of aponeurosis over the edges raised up. The fragments may be sutured in various ways; silk, silkworm gvxt, or silver wire may be passed vertically round the fragments, or they may be drilled in two places, and a double suture employed. The ends of the wires should be twisted once or twice, and pressed level with the bone surface. The torn edges of apo- neurosis shoidd be united with a few catgut sutures. In old-standing cases the fractured ends should be sawn off before the fragments are united. The result of such an operation is as a rule good, the patient being able to bend the knee freely in two weeks, and able to walk in three to four weeks. A knee-cap is unnecessary. Though the patella forms callus more slowly than any other bone, union is usually bony. The risk of refracture is comparatively slight. Owing to unfortunate results from septic inoculation at the time of operation that have occurred from time to time, and also to the very fair results often obtained from non- operative treatment, wiring the fragments is far from becoming the routine practice. No other method gives such complete approximation of fragments and such firm union, but whether risk of operation is justified is still an open question. Spontaneous Fractures are those which occur in a bone which is diseased; the bone, being weakened by the presence of the disease, breaks on the application of very slight violence. The chief causes which lead to spontaneous fractures are:—