199 LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF well marked. If we can jlex the head the occiput will descend, and then the head will rotate forward. Flexion is attempted by push- ing upwards and backwards on the frontal pole of the head during a pain. This is sometimes effectual, but if not soon followed by descent of the occiput, it will be of no use. An attempt can then be made to make the occiput descend by use of the vectis, which is passed over the occiput, and with it is pulled downwards and forwards. The vectis is not much used, but the single blade of a forceps, if it has an extra sharp curve at the top, can be used. (For vectis, see " Labour, Operations.") If the attempts to flex the head have failed, and the physician has not a forceps with a suitable curve to act as a vectis, rotation of the head by the hand can be tried, the attempt being made between the pains. Pass the left hand into the vagina. Grasp the occiput and try and bring it round to the front; at the same time try and move the shoulders round. If the rotation of the shoulders is not complete, the head will slip back into its old position. This method is of special value if the accoucheur have small hands. It is a useful plan to rotate the head, hold it in its new posi- tion, and then apply forceps. This requires much less effort in traction than in trying to deliver a persistent occipito-position with forceps. The danger of over-twisting the child's neck is more theoretical than real. Forceps.—This is sometimes quite successful, as after the head has descended by pulling, it rotates naturally. When this takes place the forceps must be taken off and reapplied. If, however, the occiput does not turn, a great deal of force and time is often required for the tugging, and when delivery is at last accom- plished there is great danger of having a very badly lacerated perineum. Face Presentations (For Mechanism, see p. 180.) When this presentation is diagnosed suffi- ciently early an effort should be made to trans- form the face into a vertex presentation. This is only possible under the following circum- stances :— 1. When the face is not fixed in the brim. If it is fixed, the movement is impossible owing to the relationship of the diameters. 2. While the membranes are unruptured. 3. When the abdominal walls are lax. 4. When there is no cause present, such as a tumour of the neck, to prevent the child's head flexing. Before making any manipulative attempts of this kind an exact diagnosis of the presentation and position must be made. There are two methods that may be tried: first, by pressing on the face and occiput; secondly, Schatz method of pressing on the shoulders and breech. Both manoeuvres are harmless and both may fail. Manipulative Measures. —■ The first method described by Herman is to place two fingers in the vagina, and the other hand on the abdomen over the occiput. Then with the internal hand press the face upwards by pres- sure on the jaws and then on the forehead; while with the external hand push the occiput down into the pelvis. When the forehead is raised above the pelvic brim use both hands on the abdomen, the left hand still pressing the occiput downwards, and the right hand pressing the face upwards and forwards. The objection to this method is that it will probably rupture the membranes. Schatz Method.—This requires veiy lax ab- dominal and uterine walls, so it is well to anaesthetise the patient fully. With both hands raise the head up from the pelvis by pushing upwards the anterior shoulder Fig. 34.—" Schatz's method " of converting face presentations into vertex presentations. and chest of the child through the abdominal wall, then with one hand on the chest push in the direction of the child's back, while the other hand pushes the breech in the opposite direc tion; lastly, when the breech is directly above the pelvis push it downwards and apply a tight binder. Occasionally the flexion is not com- plete, and the face is transformed into a brow. If the case is seen too late to transform it into a vertex, it must remain a face and be treated as such. The patient's friends should be warned that the labour in all probability will be long and tedious, and that the risk to the child is greater than usual. The chief cause of delay is that the face is a bad dilator, and for want of proper support the membranes tend to rupture early. There- fore do everything to prevent early rupture, viz., keep the patient in bed, prevent her straining, and do not make an examination during a pain. If the membranes rupture early and the face presses on to the os at each pain, leave the case to nature; also, if the os is fully dilated and the head is in the pelvic cavity and the chin to the front, there is seldom any need for in- terference. However, if the membranes are