IRIS AND CILIARY BODY 37 uvea, the iris appears blue, if comparatively thin, as is the case in children and young adults; where the iris becomes thicker the colour changes to gray. The eyes of newly- born children, even among the dark races, are always blue, since at this age the pigmentation is confined to the uvea. If pigment is absent from both stroma and uvea, the eye appears pink, owing to the choroidal reflex shining through the iris; this is seen in albinos. The ciliary body is that part of the tunica vasculosa which extends backwards from the base of the iris to the ora serrata. Anatomically, it consists of three parts : (1) an anterior thick portion, which supports the ciliary processes, the pai's plicata or co7-ona ciliaris ; (2) a posterior portion, devoid of processes, which gradually thins off into the choroid, the j^rs non-plicata or orbicularis ciliaris ; and (3) the ciliary muscle. The ciliary jn'ocesses are very vascular folds of a connective-tissue stroma similar to and continuous with that of the iris, and limited externally by the ciliary muscle. They are about seventy in number, and between two and three millimetres long. Lining them, as well as the pars non-plicata, are two layers of cells separated from the underlying connective tissue by the lamina vitrea. The layer next this lamina is pigmented, and is continuous with the pigmentary epithelium of the retina behind and the corresponding layer of the iris in front. The inner layer of cells, devoid of pigment, is the sole representative of the remaining layers of the retina, and is called the pars ciliaris retinae; in the iris it is continued as a pig- mented layer. It consists of two kinds of cells, one set being cuboidal, granular, and with prominent nuclei; the other set being extremely fine and elongated, so as to form slender fibrils, which unite together and aid in the formation of the suspensory ligament. Secretory tubular glands have been described by Treacher Collins. They exist, for the most part, at the junction of the plicated and non-plicated portions of the ciliary body. The ciliary muscle arises from the fibres of the ligamentum pectinatum opposite the sclero- corneal jimction; the greater part of its fibres (meridional) pass directly backwards to be inserted into the external layers of the choroid. The different muscular bundles are separated by small tracts of connective tissue. Other fasciculi (oblique), more loosely arranged, pass inwards to the ciliary processes ; these run divergingly, and frequently anastomose with each other. Others, the most internal, on reaching the base of the iris, pass into a direction almost circular, forming the circular muscle of Miiller. This annular muscle is better developed in hyper- metropes than in emmetropes. In myopes, on the contrary, the circular fasciculi are small, the meridional fibres constituting nearly all the muscle. The fibres are of the unstriped variety; the muscle possesses a network of capillaries and a plexus of non-medullated nerve-fibres, with numerous ganglion cells. The blood-supply of the iris and ciliary body comes from the long posterior and the anterior ciliary arteries. The two loTig posterior ciliary arteries, arising from the ophthalmic artery, pierce the sclerotic close to the optic nerve, one on either side, and pass forwards between the choroid and sclerotic, supplying neither, till they reach the ciliary region. Close to the posterior border of the ciliary muscle each divides into two branches, which take a circular direction parallel to the equator of the eyeball, and unite with branches from the anterior ciliaries to form the circulus arteriosus iridis major, which lies between the meridional and circular portions of the ciliary muscle. The anterior ciliary arteries, about five in number, come from the muscular and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic artery ; they pierce tlie sclerotic near the margin of the cornea, and then divide into branches to the ciliary muscle and to the circulus arteriosus iridis major. The circulus arteriosus iridis major gives oft' branches to the ciliary processes. It also sends branches to the ii'is, which pass radially towards the pupillary margin. Close to the latter they form an anastomotic ring, the cii-culus arteriosus iridis minor, from which, in the foetal eye, fine branches pass to the pupillary membrane. The iridic arteries have thick middle and outer coats, and but little muscular tissue. The veins of the iris and ciliary body do not exactly correspond to the arteries. Thus the anterior ciliary veins are quite small, and only receive blood from part of the ciliary muscle. They anastomose with the conjunctival veins and with Schlemm's canal. The blood from the veins of the iris and the rest of the ciliary body is returned to the choroidal veins, and so to the venje vorticosfe. The nerves of the iris and ciliary body are derived from two sources. The long ciliary nerves are branches of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, and are therefore sensory. They supply the ciliary muscle. The short ciliary nerves, about fifteen in number, are branches of ciliary ganglion, being derived from the oculo-motor nerve, and pierce the sclerotic near the optic nerve entrance, passing forwards between this tunic and the choroid. On reaching the ciliary body they form the ciliary plexus, from which fibres pass to the ciliary muscle. Passing on, a second plexus is formed in the iris, from which vaso-motorial branches supply the vessels ; muscular branches from the thii-d nerve supply the constrictor pupillaj; sympathetic fibres pass to the dilator pupillse ; while sensory fibres supply the anterior surface of the iris. Ganglion cells are found in