JAUNDICE 60 taken with advantage, inasmuch as it increases the secretion of bile and so tends to sluice out the bile ducts. A milk diet should be adhered to since it is easily digested, tends to minimise intestinal fermentation and auto-intoxication, and acts on the kidneys as a diuretic. Fatty food, for which the patient often has a distaste, should be avoided. Jaundice of Phosphorus Poisoning Morbid Anatomy ..... 60 Symptoms and Signs .... 60 Diagnosis . . . . . .61 Prognosis . . . . .61 Treatment . . . . . .61 Usually phosphorus poisoning is suicidal, and is effected by consuming rat pastes or making a meal of the heads of lucifer matches. It is rare in England—in the ten years ending 1892 there were 147 fatal cases in England and Wales (W. Blythe); but it is not infrequent abroad, especially in Vienna. It may be due to rat paste accidentally swallowed, or, as in Leonard Hill's case, be due to the application of phosphorescent paste to the skin. It sometimes follows the medicinal use of the drug; the smallest fatal dose for an adult is ^ of a grain ; usually 1 to 2 grains, either taken in a single or in divided doses, is the quantity followed by a lethal result. In a baby the smallest fatal dose known is grain. Results very similar to those of phosphorus poisoning may follow poisoning with iodoform, arsenic, antimony. Morbid Anatomy.—The liver is, as a rule, much larger than natural, firm but friable, and of a pale yellow colour. In a few cases the liver has presented exactly the features of acute yellow ati'ophy ; but this is exceptional, and the change in the liver is essentially one of increase in size due to acute fatty change, and resembles that of iodoform poisoning. It is said that as time goes on the liver diminishes in size. Under the capsule and on section the yellow buff aspect of the liver substance shows here and there reddish spots due to hiemorrhage, which stand up against the bile-stained liver substance. In dogs poisoned by phosphorus there is a large quantity of fat in the liver, and the nuclei of the liver-cells show fragmentation. There is, however, no fat or almost none in the myo- cardium, none in the voluntary muscles, and only a little in the kidneys (Ray, M'Dermott, and Lusk). Microscopically the liver-cells show cloudy swelling and very advanced fatty change. The cells in parts of the lobules may contain granules of bile pigment. Leucin and tyrosin may be found in the liver. There is sometimes slight proliferation of the connective tissue elements of the portal spaces, and in cases that recover some cirrhosis may develop. The heart and kidneys show advanced fatty change ; the heart may be so soft as to be readily perforated by the fingers during its examination. The voluntary muscles also undergo fatty change. The spleen may be much enlarged. Hfemorrhages are found scattered throughout the body. The symptoms due to the irritating effect of phosphorus on the gastric mucous membrane come on from a few minutes to three hours after taking the poison. With phosphorated oil or phosphorus in a soluble state the ill effects are soon manifested, while if the poison was taken in a solid form the onset is delayed. There is gastric pain and vomiting, which may be so constant as to lead to dangerous collapse. The vomited matters and eructations may be luminous in the dark. The vomit may become dark and grumous. There is usually intense thirst, tenderness over the stomach and liver, but no hepatic enlargement at this stage. The patient may die from collapse ; if he does not, and has been satisfactorily treated, permanent recovery may follow, but in a con- siderable number of cases there is a temporary improvement succeeded by the onset of grave symptoms due to the toxic effects of the absorbed poison on the liver and other internal organs. These severe symptoms usually begin about four days after the poison was taken ; they may come on sooner, or, on the other hand, be delayed for two, three, or even six weeks, as in S. West's case. It begins with jaundice and recurrence of vomiting of dark, grumous matters ; then follows great prostration, ending in coma and death, usually on the fifth or sixth day from the time the phosphorus was taken, and after a day or two of grave constitutional symptoms. Hfemorrhages into the skin and from mucous membranes are a constant feature of the disease, but are not so marked as in deep jaiuidice due to other causes. A blood count shows an increase in the number of red blood corpuscles in the circulation. Jaundice is by no means a constant symptom, and does not, when present, bear any relation to the severity of the changes taking place in the liver. From experiments on animals, and from some observations in man, there is reason to believe that, as in acute yellow atrophy, the jaundice is obstructive and due to inflammation and stagnation of viscid bile in the smaller ducts. The temperature is usually below normal. The liver is enlarged and tender, the spleen is also enlarged, and the abdomen may become distended. The most marked difference between this stage of phosphorus poisoning and acute yellow