86 JOINTS, DISEASES OF may occur apai-t altogether from traumatic influences. The treatment consists in opening the joint and removing the body ; the patient recovers with an absohitely healthy joint; if at the operation the opportimity is taken of in- specting the articulation, it is usually found to be normal, the important point being that there is no general disease such as attends the presence of loose bodies in the preceding groups. The characters of the loose bodies removed by operatio7i, as above described, are remarkably constant; they are usvially solitary, about the size of a bean or almond, concavo-convex in shape, the convex aspect being smooth like an articular surface, the concave aspect more often uneven, nodulated, suggesting the healing over by fibrous or fibro-cartilaginous tissue, of an irregular fracture of spongy bone. Such bodies when still attached may be lodged in a kind of compartment, nest, or excavation, in one of the articular surfaces, usually one or other condyle of the femur, from which they may be readily shelled out by means of an elevator. They usually present on section a nucleus or core of spongy bone or calcified cartilage. The origin of these loose bodies is too contro- versial to allow of its being discussed in the present article; some maintain their origin entirely from injury, others regard them as originally derived from the synovial membrane, while Konig regards them as portions of the articular surfaces which have been detached by a morbid process which he calls "osteochondritis dissecans." The subject of loose bodies in joints may be concluded by mentioning the traumatic displacement or detachment of one or other of the seinilunar cartilages in the knee, which give rise to the characteristic symptoms of loose body, modified by the accurate localisation of the offending body and the conditions under which it is met with. Jores' Fluid.—A preserving solution for tissues containing formalin, sodium sulphate and chloride, and magnesium sulphate. See PosT-MoRTEM Methods {Preservation of Tissues). Jothion. See loTHiON. J O U1 e'S La.W. See Physiology, Food and Digestion (Determiriation of Energy Value). Jugular.—Relating to the throat (Lat. jugulum, the throat), e.g. the jugular glands (see Lymphatic System) or the jugular veins {see Neck, Region of, Wounds). Juices.—Expressed or secreted fluids obtained from animal or vegetable tissues, e.g. the gastric or the pancreatic juice {see Physiology, Food and Digestion) ; in phar- macy there are six official Succi or Juices, five of which (the Succi of Belladonna, Hyoscyamus, Conium, Broom, and Taraxacum) contain alcohol while one (Succus Limonis) does not. See under the various drugs. Jujubes.—Lozenges of gelatin or gum- arabic flavoured with the jujube fruit {Zizyphus) or supposed to be so; used as demulcents in cases of pharyngitis, etc. Julep.—A drink, sweetened with syrup or sugai-j used to disguise the unpleasant taste of some drugs; a medicated drink (the Persian word gullab means rose-water). Jumper's.—A variety of saltatory spasm or myriachit, occurring sometimes in epidemic form {e.g. the "jumping Frenchmen" of Maine and New Hampshire); there is a jumping move- ment which takes place only when the patient tries to stand. June Cold.—Hay fever, or rose-cold, or catarrhus a3stivus. See Hay Fever. J U n i per. See also Dermatitis Traumatica et Venenata {Causal Agents, Juniperus sabina). The official oil of juniper {Oleum Juniperi) is obtained from the Juniperus communis; it has a characteristic odour and contains pinene (CjqHj^;), cadinene (Cj^Hg^), and a crystalline substance called juniper camphor ; it is given internally in doses of ^ to 3 m. for the same purposes as oil of turpentine, but chiefly as a diuretic in chronic Bright's disease, ascites (due to liver disease), and in heart disease. There is a preparation, Spiritus Juniperi, of which the dose is 20 to 60 m.; it gives a violet odour to the urine. It is a flavouring ingredient in Gin or Hollands {see Alcohol). Junker's Apparatus. See Anes- thesia, (General Physiology {Regidating Chloro- form Inlmler). Jurisprudence, Medical. See Medicine, Forensic. Jury Mast.—An apparatus for the pur- pose of keeping the cervical or upper dorsal portion of the spinal column at rest, used in cases of Pott's disease of the spine. ^S'ee Spine, Surgical Affections {Spinal Caries, Treatment). Justo - Major Pelvis. - A pelvis equally, symmetrically, or proportionately en- larged in all its diameters ; a giant pelvis; pelvis eequabiliter justo major. See Labour, Precipitate. Justo-Minor Pelvis.—A pelvis equally, sj'mmetrically, or proportionately dimin- ished in all its diameters ; a generally contracted or dwarf pelvis ; pelvis ajquabiliter justo minor. .See Labour, Prolonged {Pelvic Deformities). Juvenile General Paralysis. *S'ee Mental Deficiency {Developmental Cases, Syphilitic).