LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 508 symptoms play in hepatic abscess. As the disease advances the tongue becomes dry and abnormally red, and even bare; aphthte and sordes in the teeth are a late sign, and usually indicate a fatal issue. Vomiting in the early part of the disease is a common symptom ; but, as the general hepatitis or congestion subsides and the abscess develops, vomiting is not a marked feature. Should, however, the abscess advance towards and affect the walls of the stomach or duodenum, vomiting in an aggra- vated form will recur and continue imtil the pus finds its way into either viscus. Dysentery, constipation, or actual diarrhoea may prevail throughout or alternate during the course of a liver abscess. When the abscess is more or less " latent," constipation is the rule ; when hepatic congestion obtains, diarrhcea will probably ensue; but should hepatitis occur in con- junction with or develop at any period of the course of a liver abscess, dysentery (blood and mucus) may result—the condition of the bowel depending altogether upon the state of the liver. An intestinal flux with blood and mucus may or may not be dignified by the name of dysentery. We are apt to regard the presence of blood and mucus in the stools as indications of a specific disease—namely, dysentery ; but it is possible that mere portal congestion, with changes in the radicles of the portal vein or the intestines, may cause a flux of blood and mucus of a temporary nature and of a non-specific character. Certain it is that, with the presence of pus in the liver, a flux of the kind, and lasting for a few days only, is a common feature. Dysentery as a specific ailment runs a definite course ; but an intestinal flux, resembling dysenteric motions, may come and go, during the presence of pus in the liver, in a somewhat erratic fashion totally unlike true dysentery. The Urine.—Urates and uric acid are well- nigh invariably deposited when the urine cools. The urine is high-coloured or dark, and usually somewhat scanty when an abscess is developing ; but when the pus gives rise to no feverish symptoms the urine becomes fairly normal. The quantity of urea varies; one day it is in excess, the following day it niay be normal in quantity or considerably diminished. As a rule, when the patient's temperature is up, the urea is in excess—that is to say, whilst the hepatic parenchyma is irritated and its function exalted the urea is in excess; the opposite con- dition, however, naturally obtains when a large portion of the liver is rendered functionless by the presence of pus. Albumin in the urine is by no means a common feature in liver abscess, but occasion- ally traces of albumin are found. The Effect upon the Liver itself.—When one part of the liver is rendered functionless or destroyed, the remaining portion becomes hypertrophied, and takes up the work of the diseased portion. The right lobe of the liver may be reduced to a mere shell, yet may the functional activity of the liver continue, and in course of time return to full working order. The writer has brought this fact prominently forward on several occasions. As an instance of the compensatory possibilities of the healthy, in regard to the diseased portion of the liver, the following example will suffice :—At a post- mortem examination of a Chinese prisoner who committed suicide in the gaol in Hong-Kong, the writer found the right half of the liver reduced to a small mass of fibrous tissue. A closer examination showed that the fibrous mass was continuous with a tissue of like nature, which extended upwards through the diaphragm and into the right lung. In other words, that a right liver abscess had discharged upwards through the lung, that the pus had been ex- pectorated, and that the whole tract had healed. On weighing what remained of this liver, it was found that it scaled within an ounce or two of the normal weight of the liver. The left lobe, the lobulus spigellii, the lobulus quadratus, and the lobulus caudatus were enormously hyper- trophied—all the parts, in fact, to which the left branches of the portal vein and hepatic artery are distributed. By subsequent obser- vations, by experimental injections, etc., the writer has been able to prove that there are two sides to the liver, each equal in bulk, and each half presided over by an equal-sized branch of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct. In fact there is a right and left liver in juxtaposition, equal in weight, but having separate vascular and biliary circulation. Dis- ease of one side of the liver need not, and very seldom does, involve the other ; and, moreover, when one side is destroyed the other may take up its functions. There is nothing unique in this, for we have the example of one kidney executing the work of both when one is removed. A liver, therefore, in which disease is confined to one side may come in time to fulfil the function of the whole; and given time to develop, the compensatory power is so marked that a person may recover completely with only half a liver left. Diagnosis.—It is plain from the account of the signs and symptoms of liver abscess that there is no one feature which is permanent. There may be no pain, cough, temperature, or hepatic enlargement to indicate that a collection of pus—it may be of a fair size—occupies the hepatic area. On the other hand, all these may be present and yet the signs and symptoms may be due to other causes than an abscess. Hydatid of the liver, in countries where hydatids prevail, is the most likely ailment to be mistaken for liver abscess. There are typically several distinguishing features: pain is rare in hydatids, common in liver abscess; increase of temperature is the rule in abscess,