364 LARYNX, NEUROSES OF The diagnosis can only be made with certainty after touching the laryngeal surface with a probe, when the defective sensation can readily be detected. Hypercesthesia.—A variety of sensations de- scribed as rawness, constriction, or tickling, are encountered in anaemic, hysterical, or hypochon- driacal patients. Such sensations may be caused by reflex irritations from enlarged faucial or lingual tonsils; but the purely neurotic cases are usually associated with other vague sensa- tions in the region of the pharynx, local causes from the sensations complained of being entirely absent. Of course, sensations of pain or pricking are met with in many organic diseases of the larynx, but such cases do not come under the designation " neuroses." The diagnosis is to be made by the exckision of organic causes for the sensations, and the concurrent symptoms pointing to a neurotic temperament which are very seldom wanting. The coexistence of laryngeal paralysis involving the abductor muscles would strongly suggest some organic lesion as the real cause of the symptoms of hypersesthesia. Treatment of Sensory Neuroses.—The exhi- bition of nerve tonics and the adoption of general hygienic measvires is indicated in all these neuroses. When anaesthesia is due to diphtheria, local faradisation and the treatment of any organic affection will demand attention. When laryngeal anaesthesia results in the escape of food into the larynx, it may become necessary to feed the patient by means of a stomach-tube or by rectal enemata. MOTOR NEUROSES The clinical affections comprised in the group of laryngeal neuroses may be conveniently de- scribed under three headings: (i.) Spasmodic affections ; (ii.) Neuroses of incoordination ; (iii.) Paralytic affections. SPASMODIC AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX A. Respiratory Glottic Spasm 1. Laryngismus stt-idulus or " false croup," and Laryngeal stridor, see p. 372 et seq. 2. Inspiratory Spasm in Adidts.—Laryngismiis stridulus is essentially an afi'ection of childhood, and dependent on conditions which are not ob- served in adult life ; the same may be said of the affection congenital laryngeal stridor, which, though not, strictly speaking, a neurosis of the larynx, closely resembles in its clinical aspects laryngismus stridulus. In adult life, spasm of the glottic sphincters is usually a reflex pheno- menon dependent on morbid conditions in the larynx or in other parts of the respiratory tract —e.g. the presence of growths ; catarrhal, tuber- cular, or other affections in the larynx itself; or the pressure of neoplasms, aneurysms on the laryngeal motor nerves. It may be caused by an elongated uvula, adenoid hypertrophy at the base of the tongue, or it may be set up by the excessive irritability resulting in gouty or rheumatic laryngitis. Functional inspiratory spasm, the so-called " hysterical spasm," is liable to arise in hysteri- cal females from slight causes, such as emotional disturbance; it is generally incomplete and transient, but has been known to be prolonged till consciousness is lost. Functional spasm in the larynx is sometimes associated with pharyn- geal or oesophageal spasm. Certain organic affections of the motor nerve centres are liable to be associated with laryngeal spasm, e.g. tabes dorsalis with laryngeal crises, hydrophobia, tetany. Diagnosis.—It is important to recognise the existence of any organic disease in patients complaining of laryngeal spasm. Paroxysmal glottic spasm, accompanied by a peculiar and characteristic brassy cough, is often one of the earliest indications of intrathoracic aneurysm; laryngeal crises in tabes dorsalis are usually associated with abductor paralysis of one or both vocal cords, while bulbar crises may follow diphtheria. Further examination of the patient would reveal the existence of such sources of laryngeal spasm. Hysterical spasm may generally be detected by directing the patient to phonate during laryngoscopic ex- amination, the prolonged utterance of a note being usually followed by reflex abduction of the cords as soon as the breath is exhausted. Indications of the gouty diathesis, or of local abnormalities in the larynx, may be held re- sponsible for the occurrence of the laryngeal spasm only after the elimination of the graver conditions to which allusion has been made. Nervous Laryngeal Cough The "barking cough of puberty," as it was termed by Sir Andrew Clark, or laryngeal chorea, is really one of the convulsive tics, and is not in any way associated with voluntary laryngeal function. It occurs in young persons, both males and females, about the time of puberty. The cough is a single, peculiar, loud, harsh bark; sudden in oiiset, persisting at irregular intervals throughout the day, but generally ceasing during sleep. The voice is not affected. The absence of expectoration or of any lung symptoms, coupled with the peculiar character of the cough, renders the diagnosis easy. Spasmodic Laryngeal Cry.—The so-called " hydrocephalic cry," believed by Trousseau to be characteristic of cerebral meningitis, may rarely occur in various conditions associated with cortical irritability, and may be accompanied by spasmodic contraction of other muscles. The treatment of respiratory glottic spasm consists almost entirely in the general treat-