LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF 192 douche can rather than a Higginson's syringe, the advantage being that a constant stream can be applied, and there is thus much less chance of introducing air. It can be given in almost any position; there is, further, no chance of introducing any pieces of debris and clot that are apt to get drawn into the tube, as is the case where a Higginson's syringe is employed. The can should be capable of holding two quarts of solution. The nozzle is best made of glass, with the perforations in the sides of the nozzle and not one central one at the top, in case of injecting fluid into the uterus. This might quite easily occur immediately after labour when the OS is patent. To administer the douche, if a bed-pan is available, the patient must lie on her back, and with the shoulders raised and the bed-slipper arranged beneath her. If not, she should lie in the left lateral position, with the hips drawn well over to the edge of the bed; this is less likely to soil the bedding. For a cleansing douche, the antiseptic solution should be at a temperature of 100° F. to 110° F. If required to check haimorrhage, the temperature must be from 115° F. to 120° F. When the patient complains of the heat a little soap or carbolised glycerine smeared over the labia, perineum, and buttocks enables the patient to bear the heat better. A small quantity of the fluid should first be run off, so that the tube may contain no air when it is introduced into the vagina. The nozzle is passed for 2 inches into the vagina, and the tap turned on. The left hand of the nurse must be laid over the uterus to prevent the fluid finding its way into the uterus, or from the uterus into the tubes, and then out through the ostium abdominale. This is very unlikely to happen with a vaginal douche and with a nozzle not having a central perforation. Retention of the fluid in the vagina is prevented by pressing firmly down into the fundus in the axis of brim at the end of the douche, and at the same time depressing the perineum by the nozzle. Sanitary Condition of the House. — This should be ascertained to be free from defective drainage ; any sewer-gas finding its way into the lying-in room from water-closets, fixed-in basin, ventilating pipes, is a source of illness and danger during the puerperium. It is, however, doubtful if sewer-gas is ever the actual cause of septicsemia; probably it is not. Anaesthetics Anfesthesia is as justifiable in all obstetric cases as it is in surgical operations, and in the more difficult cases it is as indispensable. In a normal labour it not only prevents the acute suffering which accompanies the second stage of labour, but is frequently of actual assistance in the progress. If the antesthesia is carried to a deeper degree than is required to alleviate the pain, the spastic state of the uterine and cervical muscle becomes relaxed, and the voluntary action of the abdominal and pelvic muscle is abolished, thus enabling any operation, e.g. turning, to be carried out much more easily than it otherwise could be. Probably the best an£Bsthetic to use is chloroform. In spite of all that may be alleged against its use, it has the following advantages: chloroform is more man- ageable and more rapid in its action, and also more agreeable than ether. Further, when given in small quantities short of surgical anaes- thesia, it exercises its effects in some degree, and it does not require the undivided attention of a skilled administrator. If complete anfesthesia is necessary, ether can be used, as there will be almost invariably a skilled assistant present who can devote his whole attention to the ansesthetic. The immunity from danger during anaesthesia possessed by parturient women is well known, and lasts until the birth of the child. A very few cases of death have been recorded, all occurring when the patient has been anaes- thetised to the full surgical degree. The cause of the immunity is not known: one reason ascribed has been the physiological hypertrophy of the heart which tends to prevent syncope; another theory is that alterations in the vaso- motor system of the pregnant woman enable her to resist the toxic action of chloroform to a greater extent than usual. The possibility of post-partum haemorrhage should be borne in mind ; the general relaxation of uterine tissues produced is supposed to in- crease the dangers of haemorrhage. Haemorrhage is very rare after the administration of chloro- form if sufficient attention be paid to the uterus during the third stage of labour. If a healthy woman in labour inhales a small quantity of chloroform she quickly passes into a semi-comatose state, perception is diminished, and the general sensibility is dulled, yet she is quite conscious when spoken to. During the intervals between the pains she lies quietly asleep, but at the commencement of a con- traction she grows restless, groans, and, if the OS uteri is fully dilated, she bears down; she appears to be conscious of the pains, but does not suffer from them. The anaesthesia has not much effect on the contractions ; the frequency at first is slightly diminished, but it soon regulates itself—each individual contraction becomes more energetic and effective than before, on account of the resistance from the rigidity of the canals being reduced. An anaesthetic is of special value in nervous, excitable patients, who, on account of the fear of increasing their own sufferings, almost en- tirely abolish the assistance that is obtained from the volimtary efforts of the abdominal muscles. When deep anaesthesia is necessary, as in cases