LIVER, DISEASES OF 433 inflammation of the liver-cells set up by the toxines of numerous diseases. The changes which are shared by other organs, such as the kidneys and myocardium, are especially well seen in pneumonia. In this disease the enlarge- ment of the liver is very considerable. Long ago Bright thought that the pneumonic lung materially depressed the liver, but it is clear that any increased hepatic dulness below the costal arch is due to cloudy swelling and congestion. Foaming Liver.—Under certain conditions the liver becomes infected, shortly before or at the time of death, with the bacillus capsulatus aerogenes, with the result that it becomes a spongy mass of gaseous cysts. Acquired Deformities of the Liver Effect of Tight-Lacing on the Liver.—Modifi- cations in the shape of the liver due to tight- lacing and corsets are, of course, commoner in women, but considerable deformity of the liver may be produced in men by the pressure of a tight belt or strap. The effect of tight-lacing on the liver varies to a certain extent with fashion, or, in other words, with the position of the waist. Hirtz, who has studied the changes produced in the liver by tight-lacing in great detail, finds that the deformities of the liver may be divided into two main types, though mixed or transitional forms may occur. (1) The liver is flattened from above down- wards, the right lobe is elongated, and at the point where it passes over the right kidney is thinned, so that below this point there is a constriction or movable lobe attached by a fibrous hinge, so to speak, to the rest of the liver. To this condition the term partial hepatoptosis has been applied. Sometimes the left lobe is similarly prolonged downwards, and may have a constriction lobe attached to it. Frerichs figures a capital example. It has in- deed been thought that such a constriction lobe is more likely to give rise to symptoms from the ease with which it would press on the stomach, pylorus, pancreas, and large nerve plexuses. But it is doubtful whether this is so. Clinically there is a close resemblance between these constriction lobes of the right lobe and the tongue-shaped or Riedel's lobe usually described as occurring in special association with gall- stones. From impaired nutrition and diminished resistance morbid changes are more likely to occur in the constriction lobes than in the remainder of the liver; thus fibrosis or gum- mata may be confined to them. On the other hand, the whole of the liver, constriction lobe included, may be uniformly affected by cir- rhosis. (2) The liver lies high in the abdominal cavity, and is much thicker above than below. It is curved across the spinal column so that the VOL. v left lobe may touch or even overlap the spleen. The fossa for the inferior vena cava is exagger- ated ; while the lower margin of the right lobe is compressed by the belt or corset, and shows local perihepatitis and underlying atrophy. The circumferential pressure may throw the upper surface of the liver into folds. These furrows are often seen on the convexity of the right lobe, and have been thought to be due to indentations of the ribs, or to be due to the impress of folds, or hypertrophied columns, of the diaphragm, since they are said to occur in cases where respiration has been difficult during life, such as bronchitis and emphysema. A constriction lobe may be found attached to the right lobe, but is not a constant feature as in the previous form, and is never present in connection with the left lobe. Clinical Significance.—Tight-laced livers may and often do coexist with dyspepsia, which no doubt partly depends on the abdominal or gastric embarrassment produced by the pressure of a tight corset. Very frequently, however, the patient has no symptoms in any way refer- able to a tight-laced or corset liver. The chief interest about a tight-laced liver is that the constriction lobe may, when accidentally de- tected, be easily mistaken for something more important, such as a floating kidney, a tumour of the pylorus or transverse colon, a dilated gall-bladder, cysts of the pancreas or of the mesentery, or, in extreme cases, a fibromyoma of the uterus, an ovarian tumour, or appendicitis. The connection between the constriction lobe and the main part of the liver, as has already been pointed out, is sometimes very thin, and may therefore give a resonant note on percus- sion. Its actual continuity with the remainder of the organ is, therefore, difficult to make out. TONGUB-LIKB LoBES Synonyms : Linguiform lobe, Riedel's lobe. Partial hepatoptosis. Floating lobe.—This con- dition is very much the same as the constriction lobes that have been described in the corset liver. The association of these tongue-like lobes with distension of, or with the presence of calculi in, the gall-bladder appeared extremely intimate to Riedel, after whom these lobes have sometimes been called, and was therefore re- garded by him as corroborative evidence of gall- bladder disease in any case of doubt. It has indeed been thought that these tongue-like lobes are only produced by gall-bladder distension, inflammation, or calculi; but this is probably too exclusive a statement. Tight-lacing must also be taken into account, especially as it may lead to bending and twisting of the cystic duct, and so to partial obstruction of the outflow of bile from the gall-bladder, thus disposing to catarrh and so to cholelithiasis. The elongation of the right lobe downwards carries with it the gall-bladder, and since this 28