282 LABOUR, OPERATIONS—FORCEPS of as a pair of iron hands passed within the maternal canals so as to embrace the head of the child for its extraction. Five different modes of action have been attributed to the instrument. 1. Traction.—-The great and primary use of the forceps is as a tractor, and in the ordinary run of cases it effects the delivery solely by the power it enables the operator to employ of making simple traction. 2. Comjyre&sion.—The compression influence of the forceps is one that, in most cases, we would willingly dispense with, seeing that diminution of the head in one diameter has to be compensated by increase in another. With most varieties of forceps no traction can be effected without the production of some degree of compression, the pressure on the head amount- ing to half the force exerted in making traction. 3. Rotation.—During the progress of the head under simple traction, the usual forward rota- tion of the occiput tends to occur, if only the operator is careful not to hinder it. Cases arise where the rotation fails, and can be brought about by a judicious working of the forceps. 4. Leverage.—At one time the lever action of the forceps was called into play in cases where the head failed to advance under simple traction. By swaying the handles from blade to blade, the operator could sometimes succeed in dislodging the head that was impacted in the pelvis. This pendulum movement, which is often dangerous, becomes quite unnecessary whei'e an instrument is used that gives full power of traction in the pelvic axis. 5. Dynamic Action.—It has been often enough observed in lingering cases, where the parturient powers had become almost inert, that after the head began to be dislodged in the grasp of the forceps the uterine energy revived. This may be due either to the mere presence of the blades within the passages acting as a stimulant, or to the retractile change occurring in the walls of the uterus as its contents are withdrawn, or to the irrita- tion of a new set of nerves as the head moves into a lower plane of the passages. However it may come about, this dynamic action of the instrument must be kept in mind by the operator who has applied it for delivery in a case of uterine inertia. Construction. — I. Parts of Forceps. — The forceps in its simplest form consists of two halves—right and left, in each of which there is a Blade, a Handle, and a Lock or Joint. 1. The blades are curved towards each other so as to embrace the head of the child. This curve—called the foetal, or cranial, or cephalic curve—should have a length from the tip to its proximal end of from 5 to 6 inches, so as to be able to lie along the sides of the foetal head in its longest diameter, and a width between the most distant part of the curves of the two side blades of 3| inches, so as to fit the greatest transverse dia- meter of the average infant head. If the curve be too deep, pressure is exerted during traction only on the part of the head lying towards the tips; if the curve be too shallow, the pressure is confined to a narrow zone in the transverse diameter of the head. There should be a distance of an inch between the tips of the blades, to avert dangerous compression of the neck of the child. In some forceps the blades are solid: more frequently, and in the best forceps, they are fenestrated. The fenestra save space and allow of a more secure grasp of the head. The blades are left and right, according as they are intro- duced in relation to the left or the right side of the maternal pelvis. 2. The handles are the second essential in the construction of forceps, and serve for the manipulation of the blades. In what may have been the primitive Chamberlen forceps, the proximal extremities of the handles terminated in loops, like the handles of scissors or coal-vase tongs. In the forceps that came first into public use in this country, such as those of Chapman (see Fig. 2) and GifFard, the handles terminated in hooks ; and up till a recent period the forceps in common use in France were made Fig. 2.—Chapman's forceps with handles ending in hooks—the first forceps figured in an English work. entirely of steel, with terminal crotchets through which traction was effected. Smellie had the thin steel strip of the handles covered with wood to give better power of prehension, and such handles were prevalent in the construction of British forceps for more than a century and a half. In Germany the handles were also covered with wood, but had hooks close to the lock for purposes of traction.