JOINTS, DISEASES OF 81 Wildbad, Aix, etc. Forcible attempts to remedy stiffness or deformity are to be avoided. A certain measure of success has followed opera- tive interference in selected cases, consisting in a modified arthrectomy, and the injection of an emulsion of iodoform or guaiacol in glycerine. Deformities resulting from chronic rheumatism are treated on the usual lines. Arthritis Deformans, Osteo-Arthritis, Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Rheumatic Oout, Malum Senile, Traumatic or Mechanical Arthritis.—It is impossible with- in the limits of the present article to attempt to give an account of the group of joint affections which are at present included under the above vague and misleading nomenclature. Excluding those which are definitely gouty or rheumatic, there are provisionally included under the name arthritis deformans or osteo-arthritis a number of joint lesions which, in their etiology and clinical features, differ from each other to such a degree that we can only explain their inclusion in a common group by confessing that we are ignorant of their essential natvire. Among the list of names given above, we must be especially suspicious of those which aim at giving a clue to the origin of the disease. Rheumatism and gout are only related to the diseases under consideration in so far as they may precede the latter, and that arthritis deformans is more often met with in families who are tainted with rheumatic or gouty tendencies. The term malum senile, implying as it does an associa- tion with the changes resulting from advancing years, is singularly inappropriate as a general name for a disease which may be met with in childhood. The suggestion of Arbuthnot Lane's, that the lesions under consideration are the result of a single or repeated trauma, while ingenious and instructive, can scarcely be accepted as conclusive. Tlae reader will probably agree with the author that it is easier to express the negative in regard to arthritis deformans, than to formu- late positive views which are of any real value. The anatomical changes are so well known that their description may be omitted. The Clinical Features vary indefinitely; the following are the chief types:— 1. Hydrops is frequent in the knee, but may be met with in the elbow, shoulder, ankle, etc.; the patient complains of a feeling of weight, of insecurity, and of tiredness in the joint; pain is occasional and evanescent, and is usually the result of some extra exertion. As the joint fills more and more with fluid the ligaments become stretched, so that the limb becomes weak and unstable; it may be associated with hydrops of the adjacent bursse. The affection is extremely chronic, and may last for an indefinite number of years. It is to be diagnosed from the other forms of hydrops already considered, viz., the purely traumatic, the pyogenic, gonorrhoeal, VOL. V tuberculous and syphilitic, and from that associated with Charcot's disease. The symptoms may be relieved by hydro- therapy and massage, and by the support of an elastic bandage; great benefit or even cure may follow the withdrawal of the fluid and the injection of iodoform glycerine. 2. The presence of fringes and of peduncu- lated and other loose bodies may give rise to characteristic clinical features, especially in the case of the knee; they often coexist with hydrops; the fringes, which may assume the luxuriance of what has been described as an arborescent lipoma, project into the cavity of the joint, and may fill up all its recesses and distend the capsule. The joint is swollen and slightly flexed. Pain is not a prominent feature ; the functions of the joint are but little impaired, so that the patient may walk fairly well. On grasping the joint while it is flexed and extended by the patient the fringes may be felt moving under the fingers. The patient may first apply for advice on account of the symptoms of loose body, viz., sudden severe pain with temporary fixation or locking of the joint, disappearing as suddenly as it came. The attack may recur at irregular intervals. If the loose body is attached, the pain is located to a particular area of the joint, if its pedicle has given way it may wander about the joint; in either case it may be identified by the patient, or on examination by the surgeon. The treatment applicable to this type is the removal of the hypertrophied fringes or of the loose body by open arthrotomy, and is usually very successful. 3. The dry arthritis deformans (arthritis sicca), although especially common in the knee, is met with frequently in all the large joints, either as a solitary or multiple disease, and it is also very common in the joints of the spine and of the fingers, and in the temporal maxillary joint. In the joints of the fingers in older patients the disease is remarkably symmetrical; it tends to assume the nodular type (Heberden's nodes), whereas in younger individuals it assumes the more crippling and painful and progressive fusiform type. In the larger joints, e.g. knee, hip, shoulder, the subjective symptoms usually precede any palpable evidences of disease. The patient complains of stiffness, cracklings, and aching, aggravated by changes in the weather and by rest. The roughness (fibrillation) of the articular cartilages may be appreciated by the coarse friction or rubbing, on movement of the joint. It may be many months or years before the lipping and other hypertrophic changes in the ends of the bones are recognisable, and before the joint assumes the deformed features which have given the disease its name. These are referred to under the individual joints. The three types described may occur in combination. 6