224 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED When the occiput is behind and the deformity great, the narrowing of the front of the pelvis often prevents the occiput from tin-ning forwards, and the head, if it be small enough, is born through the space bounded by the ischia in front and the coccyx behind, the sagittal suture lying in an oblique diameter. The treatment of labour with a kyphotic pelvis should be guided by the same principles as in other forms of contracted pelvis. The index for treatment is the transverse measure- ment at the outlet. If this is so contracted that a living child cannot be drawn through it, early Cfesarean section should be done. Symphysio- tomy is not here of much use, because the separation of the ischia which it allows is but slight. If the transverse at the outlet exceed three inches, and the child is of not more than average size, it can probably be born alive; and if the pains are so weak that help is needed, it should be given with forceps. Turning is no advantage. The Kypho-scolio-rachitic Pelvis.—This is the pelvis produced when caries of the spine low Fig. 36.—Kypho-scolio-iachitic pelvis. (After Leopold.) down occurs in a rickety subject who has a lateral curvature of the spine. The rickety pelvis and the kyphotic pelvis are almost the exact opposite of each other; this pelvis is, as it were, a compromise between them. As in the kyphotic pelvis, the sacral promontory is drawn up and back, and the tip tilted forwards; but the sacrum presents the rickety convexity from side to side, and the thickening of the epi- physeal lines The general shape of the pelvis is funnel-shaped, like that of the kyphotic pelvis. The antero-posterior diameter of the brim is lengthened, and the transverse slightly dim- inished, and the ilio-pectineal line is longer and straighter. The transverse diameter at the outlet is diminished. The scoliosis leads to asymmetry of the pelvis. The sacrum is pushed Fig. 37.—Diagram of brim of Fig. 36: continuous line, norma) pelvis; dotted line, deformed pelvis. BB, sacro-iliac siiy- chondrosis; E, centre of sacrum in plane of brim ; CC, trans- verse diameter; IDD, pectineal eminences; A, symphysis pubis. towards the side of the lumbar convexity, and therefore the sacro-cotyloid diameter on that side is shortened. On the opposite side the upward and outward pressure of the femur acts to greater advantage, and therefore the symphysis pubis is pulled over to that side. The degree of these changes depends upon the Fig. 38.—Diagram of cavity of Fig. 36 : continuous line, normal pelvis; dotted line, deformed pelvis. AB, true conjugate; AC, diagonal conjugate; CD, antero-posterior diameter of outlet. extent and situation of the spinal curvatures producing them. According to whether the kyphosis or the scoliosis is the more marked, and whether the kyphosis is low down or not, the pelvis will approximate to either the scoliotic or the kyphotic type. The diagnosis of this form of pelvis will be suggested by the spinal curvatures present, and will be completed by measurement of the pelvis. According to whether the pelvis approaches more nearly the