JOINTS, DISEASES OF 72 elbow, wrist, shoulder. It is probable that the frequency in the joints of the upper extremity is understated, because the subjects thereof are often treated as out-patients and do not figure in the statistics. Relative Frequency of dijjfei'ent Joints at different Ages.—While the wrist and shoulder are rarely affected in children, disease of the hip and spine is essentially a disease of childhood and youth, and rarely commences after the skeleton has attained maturity. Disease of the knee, while very common in children, may be met with at any period of life. The elbow and ankle exhibit little age preference, but are chiefly affected during childhood and youth. Clinical Features.—These vary indefinitely with the different anatomical forms of the disease, with the joint affected, and with the individual tendencies of the patient. The symptoms do not always correspond with the nature and severity of the tuberculous lesions. The onset is usually insidious, its date uncertain, and often misstated by the patient. Sometimes the disease is ushered in with fever and with pains in several joints before settling down in one or other joint. This method of onset was described by John Duncan under the title of "Tuberculous arth7'itic fever." It has frequently been mistaken for rheumatic fever, from which it may usually be distinguished by the absence of any real migration from joint to joint, the absence of sweating, of visceral com- plications, and the failure of salicylates to influence the progress of the disease. The formation of a cold abscess or the presence of a sinus may aftbrd valuable corroboration of the tuberculous nature of the lesion. While it is the rule for tuberculosis to affect one joint, it may involve several, either simul- taneously, as above described, or one after another. The initial symptoms may be those associated with tlie presence of a focus in the neighbouring bone; such an osseous focus may be hidden for years, perhaps causing neuralgic pains in the joint, and suggesting a diagnosis of hysteria, or the complaint may be of weakness, tiredness, stiffness, and inability to use the limb; the symptoms improve with rest and relapse after exertion. These symptoms may be erroneously interpreted until the diagnosis is cleared up by the rupture of the focus into the joint. Buried foci in the trochanter and in the neck of the femur may give rise to most of the symptoms of hip disease without actual infection of the joint. Even large caseous foci may exist for long periods without infecting the joint, from which they may be only separated by the articular cartilage. It is rarely possible to recognise tiiese buried foci in the vicinity of joints by external examination ; if they are near the surface in a superficial bone, such as the head of the tibia, there may be local thickening of the periosteum, oedema, pain, tenderness on pressure and on percussion; large soft foci might be revealed by the X-rays; the patient may not be seen until the formation of an abscess and of a sinus, or, still more un- fortunately, until the focus has ruptured into the joint. It is of great practical importance to recognise such buried foci, for by treating them promptly and radically joint disease may be prevented. Tuberculous joint diseases are nearly always insidious in development and chronic in progress; they occasionally follow an acute course, resembling that of the "acute arthritis of infants" of pyogenic origin; this has been observed in very young children, especially in the knee, the lesion being synovial in origin and attended with the accumulation of pus in the joint; if treated promptly by incision, recovery is rapid, and free movement of the joint may be preserved. The onset and initial progress of the disease is more often insidious, and is attended with so few symptoms that it may have obtained a considerable hold over the joint before it attracts definite notice. After some extra use of the limb or some slight injury the disease becomes more active; it is customary for patients or their friends to attribute the disease to such an injury. The symptoms may subside under rest, only to relapse again with use of the limb; there may be successive improvements and relapses in the course of months or years. The milder forms of synovial tuberculosis may entirely recover; the severer bone lesions tend to cause persistent, relapsing, and more aggra- vated forms of joint disease. In the absence of other evidences of the presence of bone lesions their existence may be inferred from the mere persistence of the disease. In addition to the well-known symptoms of joint disease, such as pain, su'elling, and heat, attention must be specially dii-ected to the wasting of muscles, the impairment or loss of the normal movements of the joint, and the development of abnormal attitudes of the limb. 21ie wastiruj of the muscles is a constant accompaniment of tuber- culous joint disease; it is attributed to want of use and to an influence reflected from the trophic centres in the spinal cord; it is especially well seen in the extensor mtiscles of the thigh in disease of the knee, and in the deltoid in disease of the shoulder; the affected muscles become soft and flaccid, and exhibit tremors on attempted movements and a diminution of reaction to the faradic current; the muscular tissue may be largely replaced by fat. 2'he i'm2)airtiient or loss of the normal movements varies in degree according to the nature and seat of the disease. In the early stages of synovial tuberculosis the movements may be merely restricted in range and in quality. In the case of the joints of the lower extremity there is