108 KIDNEY by inflammatory products, and interference with the nerve-supply of the capsule. The mortality in skilled hands is nil. Should, however, the kidney be opened, and calculus be found and removed (lumbar-nephrolithotomy), a cure is effected with a mortality of perhaps 1 or 2 per cent, provided the urine be sterile and the surgeon judiciously gentle with the tissue of the kidney. (b) But should the urine be noticed to be changing from sterile to septic, it is not now so much a question of a demand for the relief of pain on the initiative of the patient, as of the urgent advice of the practitioner for an opera- tion to arrest inflammatory changes in the kidney structure. Here the evident duty and responsibility of the practitioner increases, I submit, in proportion to the frequency and severity of renal colic (cp. clinical note C). His arguments are based on the destruction of renal function of one side and the involvement of the opposite kidney (cj). clinical note D). It has been pointed out by Newman, and accepted as axiomatic, that the death-rate of lumbar-nephrolithotomy rises with the presence of suppuration to 39"6 per cent. Moreover, it is to be remembered that suppurative disease from renal calculus has a higher mortality even than suppurative disease of the kidney from other causes. Cases must therefore be attacked in the sterile stage. Henry Morris's latest statistics are still more convincing, for they represent the work of one operator and not that of the many collected by Newman. In non-suppurative cases Morris lost 2'9 per cent (1 case in 34) by the lumbar incision, but when suppuration was so advanced as to need nephrotomy or nephrectomy the mortality rose to 25 per cent. I have lost, without regard to aseptic or septic cases, 1 patient out of 50. This low mortality is, however, due in all proba- bility to the change in professional opinion, the outcome of the above teaching, for patients in the last ten years which cover the writer's statistics have been made to realise the para- mount necessity for early operation, and have applied for relief before the opposite kidney has deteriorated. (c) When the practitioner is confronted with a case of calculous suppression his duty is obvious and imperative, for calculous anuria is the gravest and most fatal of the many serious complications of renal lithiasis, and it is only in rare instances that the suppression, once estab- lished, is overcome. It must be remembered that pain is the best indication both to the side to be relieved by operation and to the wppro- j)riate time for interference. The tender kidney, which has been the site of the pain at the onset of the suppression, is to be operated on. As long as pain is experienced in the flank or along the ureter the stone may be shifting; directly the pain ceases and suppression continues, the renal vitality is endangered and operation should be considered. Let the advice for interference be urgent, be early, and, in the stage of tolerance, between the third and fifth day {vide Calculous Anuria). The percentage of recoveries in cases operated on is 51 per cent as compared with 20-8 per cent which were not operated on, but recovered spontaneously (Morris). Suppression of Urine due to Calculus. Cal- culous Anuria.—This occurs from the ureter becoming blocked, generally at the opening of the renal pelvis or in its upper third, by a calculus—the other kidney being absent (13'8 per cent, Donnadieu), functionless, or so affected by disease as to be sensitive to reflex inhibition. It is a disease affecting mid-adult life, often occurring in the fat and gouty. There is usu- ally a previoiis history of repeated renal colic affecting both sides with the subsequent discharge of gravel or stone. Onset.— After a prolonged colic, started perhaps by a sudden jerk, exercise, a fit of temper, or apparently without cause, the patient is seized by a constant desire to urinate, only succeeding, however, in expelling a few drops, and that blood-stained. Then the secretion is completely arrested. Stage of Tolerance (Merklen).—For a variable period, at least five or six days, the patient is in no distress, suffers no pain. He continues his avocation, walks about strongly; but he does not pass water, though he may still have constant desire to do so. Some pass a few ounces daily of pale urine of low specific gravity, if the anuria is not absolute. In favourable cases in this stage the calculus may be passed and the patient recover, or the calculus may become dislodged, drop back into pelvis, and a rush of many pints of urine heralds the probable return of health, though even after this a relapse may take place. Spontaneous cure takes place in 2 8-5 per cent of cases (Legueu). Usually, however, general debility, sleeplessness, and nausea supervene and usher in the stage of urcemic intoxication. Stage of Urcemic Intoxication.—This is usually marked by the appearance of hiccough, vomit- ing, and intense thirst. As the intoxication deepens, muscular twitchings, pin-pointed pupils, and torpidity appear. Then comes the drop in temperature, irregular pulse and respiration (Cheyne-Stokes), and death between the ninth and twelfth day (or twenty-fifth day). Diagnosis.—The history of former attacks of renal colic ; the passage of calculi; the sudden onset of pain in one kidney, or a prolonged colic followed by suppression and accompanied by constant desire to urinate ; the presence of a swelling in the I'enal region, of tenderness there on pressure, or along the ureteric tract; the appearance of a little blood in the small quan- tity of urine evacuated,—are points of especial