JOINTS, DISEASES OF 74 Clinical Types of Tuberculous Joint Disease 1. Tuberculous Hydrops. 2. Cold Abscess or Tuberculous Empyema. 3. White Swelling. 4. Tuberculous Ai'thritis. 5. Caries Sicca. 1. Hyd/rops Tuberculosis is the name given to that form of tuberculous joint disease in which the outstanding feature is the accumulation of serous fluid within the joint. It is analogous to the ascitic type of peritoneal tuberculosis. It is most often met with in the knee of young adults. Inasmuch as it frequently terminates in recovery with a useful joint, it may be re- garded as the least serious form of tuberculous joint disease. It will be further described under " Knee-Joint, Diseases of." 2. Cold abscess; empyema of joints is the name given by Konig to that form of tuber- culous joint disease in which the outstanding feature is the accumulation of pus in the joint. It is analogous to the purulent type of peri- toneal tuberculosis. Its clinical features will be described under " Knee-Joint, Diseases of." 3. White Swelling of Joints {Synovial Fimgus).—Tumor albus is the name originally applied by Wiseman in 1676 to that form of tuberculous disease which is characterised by the gradual development of a solid swelling in the area of a joint. The swelling is to a con- siderable extent the result of reactive and mucoid changes in the fat and connective tissue surrounding the capsule of the joint, as well as of tuberculous thickening of the synovial membrane. It is not to be regarded as a distinct pathological type of tuberculous joint disease, for it may originate from primary tuberculosis of the synovial membrane as well as from disease in the bone, while the changes within the joint and the course of the disease necessarily vary within very wide limits; at the same time, the appearances of white swelling bulk so largely in the clinical features of a large number of cases of tuberculous joint disease that it is probably the best known clinical type. It is only recognised in joints which are super- ficial, viz., the knee, ankle, elbow, and wrist. White swelling of the hip or shoulder is not described. The initial symptoms are those of swelling rather than those of implication of the articular surfaces, even although the disease may have originated in the bone. The swelling develops gradually and painlessly, obliterating the bony prominences and outlines by filling up the natural liollows; the overlying skin is white ; the swelling appears greater to the eye than is borne out by measurement, because of the wasting of the muscles above and below the joint; in the early stage the swelling is elastic, doughy, and non-sensitive, and corresponds very accurately to the superficial area of the synovial membrane involved ; appearing at first over the cul de sac or recess of the synovial membrane, and later over the interval between the bones. At this stage there is comparatively little com- plaint on the part of the patient, for the articular surfaces and ligaments are still intact; there may be a feeling of weight in the limb; in the case of the knee and ankle the patient may tire on walking, and drag the leg with more or less of a limp; passive movements are comparatively free and painless, although usually limited in range. The disability of the joint is increased by use and exertion, and improves under rest, for a time at any rate. As the disease progresses, the signs and symptoms become slowly exaggerated; the skin over the joint becomes tense and hot, the swelling, which was at first solid, may show areas of softening, and later of fluctuation, and a cold abscess may form, may burst, and result in one or more sinuses. The wasting of muscles becomes more marked, the joint becomes more rigid as the articular cartilages become affected, and the attitude of flexion is very commonly assumed, more especially in the case of the knee. Startings at night indicate the occurrence of destructive changes in the articular surfaces. The final condition is one of disorganisation of the joint, with deformity and septic sinuses. 4. Tuberculous Arthritis.—It is convenient to group under this heading those cases of tuberculous joint disease in which the out- standing clinical features are the result of implication of the articular surfaces. Although, as already indicated, these symptoms commonly develop in the later stages of white swelling, it is a matter of everyday experience that symptoms of implications of the articular surfaces may be the first evidences of tuber- culous joint infection, and may exist without white swelling or any other clinical evidence of disease in the synovial membrane. These remarks specially apply to such deeply-seated joints as the hip, shoulder, and spine, which never present the phenomena of white swelling, but they are also applicable to other joints. The recognition of this arthritic form of tuber- culous joint disease depends rather upon in- ferences founded upon certain symptoms and signs than upon direct examination of the joint concerned. The patient complains of pain at the site of the disease, or he refers it to some other part with which it is connected through the nerves; the pain is aggravated by move- ment and by the manipulations of the surgeon; in the case of the joints of the lower extremity the patient will limp in walking ; the move- ments of the joint are restricted, very often } to the extent of fixation or rigidity. The I recognition of rigidity is one of the most valu- able evidences in the diagnosis of disease at this early stage, especially in deeply-seated joints.