430 LIVER, PHYSIOLOGY OF the former type of animals the ammonium lactate— H OH 0 I I II H—C—C—C—NH4 I I H H which in mammals is changed to urea, is con- verted to uric acid. Now when it is remembered that sarcolactic acid is hydroxy-propionic acid, and that acrylic acid, the linking bond in uric acid, is an unsaturated propionic acid, it is obvious that uric acid may be formed either directly on the road to the formation of urea or only very slightly off that road. That uric acid in birds is formed in the liver is shown by Minkowski's observation that when the liver is removed lactate of ammonia takes its place in the urine. This production of uric acid must be carried out by a process of synthesis, since the amount of nitrogen is greater in uric acid than in lactate of ammonia, and that this synthesis is carried out as part of the metabolism of the liver protoplasm is indicated by the fact that in birds urea is changed to uric acid, and that in dogs uric acid is changed to urea and to allantoin. Now in certain conditions of the liver in mammals the process of the elaboration of urea either stops to a greater or less extent at the stage of uric acid or by a slight modification is in part diverted to it, and thus the proportion of uric acid to urea rises. What these conditions are has not been fully investigated, but appar- ently maloxygenation of the blood and the action of various toxic substances in the liver are apt to induce this alteration in the metabolism. One proteid, with the breaking down of which the liver has a very direct relation, is hsemo- globin. This may be considered as a compound of about 96 per cent of a globulin, with 4 per cent of an iron-containing pigment, hsematin. The liver-cells take up hfemoglobin, break it into its two components, and split the hfematin into an iron-containing part which is retained for further use, and an iron-free portion which is excreted as the pigment of the bile. It also breaks down the globulin and forms urea, and thus when experimentally a large amount of haemoglobin is set free in the circulation, the excretion of urea is proportionately raised. The relationship of the liver to proteids and haemoglobin leads to the study of its 5. Bile-forming Function.—Formerly the for- mation of bile was considered the function of the liver, and it was only after Claud Bernard had discovered its glycogenic function that the secondary nature of bile production was recog- nised. Bile is an alkaline, viscous, olive-yellow fluid. When secreted from the liver-cells it has a specific gravity of about 1010, and contains about 2 per cent of solids. When it has been some time in the gall-bladder, water is absorbed, and it becomes more viscous and the percentage of solids rises. In freshly secreted bile the inorganic salts amount to less than 1 per cent. The principal salt is chloride of sodium. The chief constituent of the bile is the soda salt of glycocholic acid. A small amount of taurocholic acid is also present in human bile. These salts are alkaline in re- action. Glycocholic acid readily splits into cholalic acid, C24H4QO5, the constitution of which is not definitely known, and amido-acetic acid (glycocoll)— H 0 I II NHg—C—C—OH Taurocholic acid yields cholalic acid and amido-ethane-sulphuric acid (Taurin)— H H 0 I I II NH2—C—C—S—OH I I II H H 0 Since these both contain amidogen they must be derived from proteids. That these acids are formed in the liver and not merely excreted by it is shown by the fact that whereas when the bile-ducts are ligatured they appear in the blood, when the liver is excluded from the circulation they do not appear. They may be considered as the essential constituents of the bile, and it is their presence which gives to bile any action it may have in digestion. About 7 or 8 grams are excreted per diem. The pigments bilirubin, biliverdin, and bili- prasin are derived from the decomposition of the haematin of haemoglobin, and they are in- creased when haemoglobin is set free. The fact that they do not appear in the blood when the liver is excluded from the circulation shows that they are formed in the organ and not merely excreted by it. They amount to about half a gram per diem. Cholesterin, CggH^gOH, is a monatomic alcohol insoluble in water, but dissolved in the salts of the bile acids. The amount secreted in normal conditions is small. That it is not merely excreted by the liver is shown by the fact that when injected or given in the food it does not appear in the bile. It is probably formed from the cells of the bile passages, since researches carried on in Naimyn's laboratory show that when these passages are inflamed the cholesterin is increased. It is the chief constituent of gall- stone. Fats and Lecithin are present in small amounts, and are derived from the liver-cells. The viscosity of bile is due to the presence