528 LUMBAGO the due performance of this function we have a series of specially well-developed vertebras and intervertebral discs, clothed hj soft tissues to a degree befitting the importance of function subserved. From without inwards the more im- portant soft structures are: (1) the latissimus dorsi, serratus posticus inferior, and internal oblique lying in the posterior layer of lumbar fascia; (2) the erector spinte, within its own layer of fascia; (3) the quadratus lumborum, also similarly enclosed ; (4) the psoas muscle, lying in front of the anterior layer of lumbar fascia, with the lumbar plexus lying in its sub- stance. Particular attention should be paid to the vessels, five in number, which run out behind the quadratus into the space between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles. Capillaries and veins correspond. The lym- phatic system is of even greater importance. For an account of the vessels and glands con- cerned the reader is referred to the section on " Lymphatic System" (vide vol. vi.). The difficulties attendant on the investigation of the state of the lymphatic vessels and glands in this region have, I fear, led us to neglect thinking of them as factors of much importance. It is more than probable that, if we only had oppor- tunities of investigating the state of the glands in and about the lumbar area, much light would be thrown on the etiology of the local morbid conditions. The nerves involved are derived from the lumbar plexus, the anterior divisions being intimately associated with the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic system. The pain of lumbago must be connected with one or other or a combination of the following : muscles, skin, connective tissue, vessels in- cluding capillaries and lymphatics, and nerves. Each and all of them must be considered so as to have an adequate conception of the condition, and before leaving this part of the subject it is well to add :— L The dependent nature of this region, with its relatively large amount of soft tissues, pre- disposes to defective drainage, so to speak, of the part. 2. The extent of capillary area in association with it is very considerable. 3. The significance of failing elasticity of adult and later life, with its associated limitation of movement, is of special importance in this region of the body. Clinical. — Lumbago in its simplest form consists of a pain in the small of the back, with diminution in movement, anteriorly and later- ally, the pain being aggravated by any move- ment which brings into play the forementioned muscles. There is no apparent constitutional disturbance. The onset of pain may take place after exposure to cold or damp, but frequently no exciting cause can be assigned. The duration is a few days or more; in some instances the pain may remain in a subacute or chronic stage for months. A more adequate account of the disease is found in the description of a regular acute attack of lumbago. The following notes are made from the case of a young medical man under the writer's care, and is the most striking example of the disease that has come under his observation. It illustrates better than any general description the severity and importance of the condition :—• When about sixteen years of age (now aged thirty-two) patient had his first attack of lumbago, which laid him up for at least several days. Had been much exposed to wet and cold the previous night. Since that time he has had similar attacks, of greater or less severity, up till the present time, on an average about twice a year. The last attack was in January 1900, and was a rather severe one. Its description also applies to other attacks with very slight modifications. For two or three days before the attack patient felt a stiffness in the lumbar muscles. From past experience this was an indication to " walk warily." When bending over the basin in the act of washing his face in the morning, and when in the act of assuming the erect attitude, he was suddenly seized with a very severe pain in the upper lumbar region. The pain was described as " terrible," and of a sharp, stabbing character. He had to seize hold of the back of a chair, and had to be assisted back to bed. He felt as if one of the lumbar vertebrse had been suddenly removed, and that, if he attempted to stand without supporting himself with his hands on the back of a chair, he would have "broken in two." When in bed and at rest the pain persisted, though of a dull aching character; when any movement was attempted, the severe lancinating pain recurred. On coughing, but especially on sneezing, the pain was excruciating. A dull, aching pain was felt continuously for first five or six days. After the first day or two the pain began to move downwards, and at the end of a week it was most severe in the sacral and right gluteal region; a few days later it was felt in the back of the right thigh. (There was con- siderable pain caused by the movements of respiration during this attack, but this had never been experienced before—possibly due to implication of the sheath of the quadratus lumborum muscle or some of the abdominal muscles.) In every previous attack the pain gradually moved downwards, and was usually last felt in the back of the right thigh. This was not in the least affected by pressure over the course of the sciatic nerve, and the pain was not increased at all by the ordinary tests for sciatica. During the whole period in which patient was confined to bed the general health was quite good, the appetite was unimpaired. He got out of bed on the tenth day, and at the end of a fortnight was able to resume work, but an aching stiffness and weakness continued for