LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS 326 of the internal tensors. In other cases this approximation of the cords is due to the swelling of the lax mucous membrane lying over the inter-arytenoid region. Hfemorrhage occasionally takes place into the submucous tissue, and blood may even escape—generally in small streaks only—from the surface. This latter variety has been termed hcemorrhagic laryngitis. In the first stage the absence of mucus in the larynx is noticeable. As the inflammation abates the parts are seen to be bathed in secretion, generally of a muco- purulent character, which is observed coming up from the trachea and welling over the inter- arytenoid region to pass into the oesophagus. The epiglottis is not usually involved in ordinary cases of laryngitis, althoTigh the lower part of the laryngeal surface (the cushion) may present an injected and velvety appearance. The appearances of acute inflammation will generally be found at the same time in the nose and pharynx; and the mucous membrane of the trachea frequently shares in the inflammation. As recovery takes place the cords are restored first to a dirty grey colour, and then to their normal tint, while they lose their rounded upper surface and assume their flat appearance. Some paresis of the internal tensors may be evident for some time, particularly in cases where the voice was not rested during the illness, or used too soon during convalescence. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of complete laryn- gitis presents very little difficulty. An examina- tion of the nose and pharynx will exclude other possible affections ; and the use of the laryngo- scope will reveal the exact condition of affairs. It will be seen that the hoarseness is not due to any growth or paralytic atfection, while the bilateral cliaracter of the affection and its uniform dis- tribution will point to its catarrhal character. The comparatively sudden onset of the affection is also a characteristic. The possibility of a foreign body having entered the larynx should never be overlooked. Prognosis.—When a primary affection, acute laryngitis is free from danger. Recovery gener- ally takes place within three to eight days, or else the condition passes into a chronic affection. It is of graver importance when it occurs in the aged, the broken down, or as a complication of infectious fevers or systemic conditions. Treatment.—The treatment may be con- sidered as local, general, and preventive. The first and most important point in treatment, and one too often neglected, is the insistence on complete rest for the voice. This should be as near absolute silence as possible, and even whispering should be avoided. The custom of attempting to treat a patient's larynx, when affected with acute inflammation, so as to enable him to sing or speak at some public function, should be severely discouraged; it is as un- physiological as to allow a patient to walk about with acute synovitis in the knee-joint. Next to rest of the voice there is little doubt that, whenever possible, general rest should be en- joined, and the patient is much more likely to make a rapid recovery if he is put to bed, and treated with a dose of calomel in the evening followed by a morning saline cathartic. The diet should be light, but need not be restricted; alcoholic stimulants and smoking being, of course, strictly forbidden. The room should be kept warm but freely ventilated. The custom of overheating the room, excluding every breath of fresh air, and filling the atmosphere with the steam from a bronchitis kettle, is only men- tioned to be discouraged; the vitiated air and unnecessary heat can only depress the recupera- tive power of the patient, while the clouds of steam soon condense in chilling damps on his body and bedclothes. Internally, quinine is frequently prescribed; but I have never seen any benefit accruing from it, while it often adds to the discomfort of the patient. A few doses of salicine, say 10 grains every three hours, are much oftener attended with relief. Tincture of aconite, in drop doses every quarter of an hour until perspiration is induced, is said to mitigate the severity of an attack. The action of the skin may be encouraged by warm drinks, diaphoretics, or the administra- tion of pilocarpine gr. ttq every three or four hours. In the early stage it is wiser to refrain entirely from direct medication of the larynx^ and all astringents, as well as the use of gargles and the insufflation of powders, should be avoided. Counter-irritation over the neck and chest by blisters, etc., have generally been discarded, but the gentle warmth of turpentine liniment over the front of the neck is some- times comforting. Cold compresses, frequently renewed, will give relief, or cold may be applied by means of Leiter's coils. Sucking small pieces of ice will sometimes relieve the soreness, especially if dysphagia is present. A lozenge containing codeia gr. \, heroin gr. yV, morphia sulp. \, or other sedative will generally ease the pain and check the useless cough. The natural history of acute laryngitis shows that discomfort is overcome as soon as free secretion of mucus takes place, and there can be little doubt that there is no more soothing application to an inflamed laryngeal mucous membrane than its own mucus. With this object in view we should order inhalations of steam, from a jug or specially constructed in- haler containing half a pint of water at a tem- perature of 120° F. (65° C), to which has been added a teaspoonful of compound tincture of benzoin, hemlock, or hops, or some stimulant oils, such as camphor, oil of turpentine, oil of peppermint, oil of tar, creasote, and others. The steam should be inhaled deeply through the nose and mouth for five minutes every