KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF 140 6. Haimophylia—" Bleeder's Knee."—This is a rare but very characteristic affection, chiefly met with in boys and young adult males. The first haemorrhage into the joint originates suddenly after some trivial injury, and may attract so little attention that it is not thought necessary to seek advice; the appearances are very similar to those of hydrops, and there is little or no pain; the patient is usually anaemic, but is otherwise healthy; the temperature is often elevated (10r-102°), especially if at the same time there are hfemorrhages into the cellular tissue of other parts of the limb or elsewhere in the body. After repeated haemor- rhages the joint becomes imiformly swollen from the deposit of fibrin on the synovial membrane and its subsequent organisation. As the swell- ing is often associated with flexion and stiffness, the resemblance to white swelling is very close indeed—so much so, indeed, that a wrong diagnosis has been made, and the joint subjected to operation with disastrous results. The treatment of bleeder's knee has been described in the article on Joints. 7. Neuro - Arthropathies. — Charcot's disease more often affects the knee than any other joint; it is chiefly met with in adult males suffering from lightning pains and loss of the knee-jerks. In the knee it often presents the features of an immense hydrops with oedema of the leg and foot, but whatever the external appearances, the presence of abnormal move- ments, lateral or rotatory, with cross grating and the utter absence of sensitiveness, are very characteristic; in many cases it is possible to partially or completely dislocate the tibia from the femur. 8. Hysterical hiee may be regarded as the type of hysterical joints, being the one most commonly affected. It has been described as siich in the general article on Joints (see also " Hysteria, Surgical Aspects of," vol. iv.). 9. Loose Bodies.—The origin, structure, and clinical features of loose bodies have been dis- cussed in the general article on Joints (p. 84); we may here refer to the operation for their removal. The incision is made directly over the body whenever it can be located to a particular area of the joint. If, on the other hand, the body is free and has to be searched for, the joint must be freely opened, preferably by a vertical incision along the outer border of the patella, so as to admit the finger. The limb miist be carefully manipulated during the ex- ploration, or the finger may be severely nipped between the patella and the femur. If the body lies in the posterior recess of the joint one may fail to find it through an incision made on the anterior aspect of the joint; under these circumstances the whole joint must be opened up, and this is best carried out by detaching the tubercle of the tibia, and dislocating the patella inwards, as has been already described in the operation of arthrectomy by Kocher's method. One should always remember that there may be more than one loose body in the knee-joint. 10. Pathological Dislocation. — Apart from the backward displacement of the tibia observed in tuberculosis, pathological dislocation is almost confined to cases of Charcot's disease. 11. Congenital Dislocation of the Knee.—The tibia is nearly always dislocated forwards, and the patella is frequently absent; when the dislocation is bilateral, it is often accompanied with other errors of development. In con- genital dislocation of the tibia forwards, the joint is in a state of hyperextension, which may be increased or diminished by manipulation. The treatment consists in flexing the knee, under an anaesthetic, as nearly to a right angle as possible, and fixing it in this position with plaster-of-Paris or other apparatus. Where the patella is absent it is usually necessary to produce an artificial ankylosis between the femur and tibia. Spontaneous dislocation of one or both knees may be observed in infants; in older children the patient may be able to dislocate the joint voluntarily. J. W. Ballantyne records the case of an infant of eleven months old, in which the right knee was frequently dislocated outwards during attempts at walking; on examining the limb it was found that when the leg was grasped in the position of [nearly complete extension, and the upper end of the tibia was pressed outwards, that a partial dislocation of the tibia took place with a slight creaking noise; the dislocated tibia was easily reduced, and the whole procedure did not appear to cause the infant any pain. In this and similar cases the joint should be fixed on some retentive apparatus until the joint acquires the desired stability. 12. Coiu/enital Dislocation of the Patella.— There are several varieties of this lesion. The complete persistent form, in which the knee-cap rests on the outer surface of the external condyle in all positions of the joint, is ex- tremely rare, and is usually combined with congenital knock-knee, or with marked external rotation of the leg. Both deformities may be corrected by manipulative treatment if this is begun in early infancy. The spoutaneoKS or intermittent form, in which the knee-cap is only displaced outwards when the knee is flexed, is chiefly met with in girls; there is usually a history that the art of walking was acquired with difficulty, and at a later period than in other children. It is frequently associated with imperfect development and flattening of the external condyle, with knock-knee, and with unequal action of the quadriceps. It may occur on one or both sides. The usual com- plaint is that in walking the patient suddenly falls to the ground and suffers intense pain,