KRISHABER'S DISEASE 154 Krishaber's Disease.—Vertigo with sensory illusions, cardiac irritability, etc. Krohne and Sesemann's Ap- paratus. See Anaesthesia, General Physi- ology OF {Regulating Chloroform Inhaler). Kromskop.—An apparatus for the re- production in colours of photographed natural objects (see International Clinics, s. x., vol. ii. p. 1, 1900). Krypton.—A gas found in small quantities in the atmosphere. Kubel'S Met hod.—A method of esti- mating the amount of organic matter in water, from the amount of oxygen required to oxi- dise it. Kubisag'ari.—Endemic paralytic vertigo occurring in Northern Jajsan. Kudowa. See Balneology {Germany, Silesia). KuSatSU. *S'ee BALNEOLOGY {Ja2Mn, Sul- phnrous Thermal Waters). Kutubuth. — Melancholia with restless and inconsequent wandering to and fro; an old term used by the Arabian physicians for a morbid mental state said to occur chiefly in the month of February. Kyestein. See Kiestein. Kyphosis. 'S'ee Spine, Surgical Affec- tions OP {Kyj^hosis); see also Chest, Defor- mities OP (in Kyphosis); Deformities {Cerebral and Sjyinal Paralysis); Labour, Prolonged {Pelvic Deformities, Kyphotic) ; Rickets {Clini- cal Features); Syringomyelia {Symptoms, Kyphosis). Kythmos. See Balneology {Greece). Labia.—Lips (plural of labium), especially labia oris (lips of the mouth), and labia p)udendi or labia vulvae (margins of the vaginal orifice). *S'ee Generation, Female Organs of (Vulva); GoNORRHCBAL INFECTION {(Edema of labia); Hernia {Inguinal, Diagnosis, Labial Stvellings); Pregnancy, Physiology {Changes in External Genitals); Pruritus ; Pubrperium, Physiology {Evidences of Recent Delivery); Syphilis {Ac- quired, Primary Sore, Situation) ; Uterus, Mal- formations of {Hypertrophy of Labia Minora) ; Vulva, Diseases of. Labidometer. — An instrument for measuring the foetal head; it consists of a pair of obstetric forceps with a graduated scale attached. LabiO-.—In compound words lahio- (from Lat. labium, a lip) means relating to the lips, e.g. labio-dental, labio-nasal, labio-glossal, labio- mental, etc. Labis.—The forceps (Gr. Aa^is, a forceps). Labitome.—An instrument for diminish- ing the size of the foetal head in cephalotomy; a pair of cutting forceps or a cephalotome. Labium. ^S'ee Labia. Labour.—This will be described in the following sections:— A. PHYSIOLOGICAL SECTION 1. Physiology. 2. Progress and Duration. 3. Diagnosis and Mechanism. 4. Management. 5. Labour in Multiple Pregnancy. B. PATHOLOGICAL SECTION 6. Precipitate and Prolonged Labour. 7. Faults in the Passenger. 8. Accidental Complications affecting Child only. 9. Eetention of Placenta. 10. Post-Partum Haemorrhage. 11. Injuries during Labour. 12. Operations. See also Achondroplasia {Clinical Features, Labour in Achondroplasic Dwarf); Asphyxia {Causes, During Birth); Cocaine {Uses, in Labour); Coccygodynia {Etiology, Traumatism in Labour); Fcetus ; Generation, Female Organs of ; Hypnotism {Obstetrical); Medicine, Forensic {Signs of Delivery); New-born Infant ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis ; Pregnancy, Affections OP Generative Organs ; Pregnancy, H^hmor- rhage ; Pseudo-cyesis ; Puerperium, Physiology ; PuERPERiUM, Pathology' {Puerperal Infection); Puerperium, Pathology {Puerperal Insanity). A. PHYSIOLOGICAL SECTION Physiology of Labour Definition . . . . . .154 Causes op 154 Difficulties of .... . 155 Stages 155 Factors— (1) Poiveis 155 General Description. . .156 Action in various Stages . . 156 (2) Passages . . . . .159 Hard and soft. . . .159 (3) Passenger . . . . .161 {a) As a whole . . . 161 {b) The Foetal Head . .161 Relation op Passenger to Passages . 162 Labour may be defined as the separation and expulsion of the contents of the gravid uterus, and is the physiological termination of pregnancy. Causes op Labour.—The normal period of