LAVENDER 377 LaiVender.—The flowers of Lavandula vera or L. officinalis yield an oil {Oleum Lavan- dulm), which contains an alcohol (Linalool, CjqHj^OH), Linalool acetate, and the oil Cineol (isomeric, with hydrate of cajuputene), and is given in doses of ^ to 3 m.; official preparations are the Spiritus Lavandulae (dose, 5 to 20 m.) and the Tinctura Lavandulce Composita (dose, J to 1 fl. dr.), while the oil of lavender is con- tained in Linimentum CamphorcB Ammoniatum, and the compound tinctvire is found in Liquor Arsenicalis. It has the carminative and stimu- lating actions of all the aromatic volatile oils, and the compound tincture is used as a red colouring agent (it contains red sanders-wood). Lave ran's Bodies.—The crescent- or sickle-shaped bodies found in the blood of malarial patients by Laveran, in 1880. See Malaria (History). Lavey. See Balneology {Switzerland, Canton Vaud). Law. See Beaumes' Law ; Colles' Law ; Courvoisier's Law ; Las^igub's Law ; Profeta's Law ; etc. Laxative.—A mild purgative medicine, such as honey, fruits (figs, prunes, stewed apples), sulphur, treacle, nux vomica, and olive oil. See Pharmacology. "Laxoin."—A synthetic laxative (dihy- droxyphthalophenone) recommended in place of the various vegetable drugs whose composition is apt to vary (Oppenheimer). Layman.—The term layman was first used of a non-clerical person, but it now includes those who are outside any of the professions, such as medicine, law, and art; with regard to any one of these professions the layman is an "outsider," one of the laity. Lazaretto.—A leper house or hospital, but more often used now for a quarantine building. Lead. See also Amblyopia {Toxic); Brain, Tumours of {Diagnosis); Colour Vision {Ac- quired Colour Blindness) ■ Constipation {Causes, Drinking Water); General Paralysis {Dia- gnosis) ; Insanity, Etiology of {Toxic Action) ■ Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties); Leucocytosis {Toxic); Nerves, Mul- tiple Peripheral Neuritis {Lead Paralysis); Nephritis {Renal Cirrhosis, Etiology); Stomach AND Duodenum, Diseases of {General Etiology); Toxicology {Lead); Trades, Dangerous {Lead Poisoning); Unconsciousness {LeadPoisoning) ; Vision, Field op {Limitation in Lead Poison- f«5'). — Plumbum; symbol, Pb. The metal itself IS of no value therapeutically, and is represented officially by the following salts. 1. Plumbi Oxidum, lead oxide, known as "litharge." It exists as red scales made by roasting lead in air; it is insoluble in water but soluble in nitric and acetic acids. When boiled with olive oil it yields an oleate. Preparation—Emplas- trum Plumbi, consisting of lead oleate or "lead soap." It is contained in Emplastra Hydrargyri, Plumbi lodidi, Resinse, and Saponis. 2. Plumhi Carbonas, really a mixture of carbonate and hydrate. It is known as " white lead." It is a heavy white insoluble powder. Preparation— Unguentum Plumbi Carbonatis. It may be used as a dressing for burns, scalds, and ulcers provided that too large a surface is not affected. An ointment made up with starch and cold cream is recommended for severe sunburn. 3. Plumhi Acetas, known as " sugar of lead." It is pre- pared from the oxide by the addition of acetic acid and water. It deposits in large, porous, tangled masses, with a sweet astringent taste. It is soluble 10 in 25 of water. Dose—1-5 grs. Preparations—(1) Unguentum Plumbi Acetatis. (2) Suppositoria Plumbi Composita. Each con- tains 3 grains of lead acetate and 1 grain of opium. (3) Pilula Plumbi cum Opio; lead acetate 6, opium 1, syrup of glucose |. Dose—2-4 grs. In the following preparation made from the acetate the lead exists in the form of the Sub- acetate. (4) Liquor Plumbi Subacetatis Fortis (Goulard's extract). A clear, colourless liquid, containing 24 per cent of the subacetate. (5) Liquor Plumbi Subacetatis Dilutus (Goulard's lotion or water). Contains 1 part of the strong liquor in 80. (6) Glycerinum Plumbi Sub- acetatis. (7) Unguentum Glycerini Plumbi Sub- acetatis. Externally, the lotions and ointments derived from acetate of lead are used for their astringent and sedative eff'ect. They are applied in cases of moist eczema and in some forms of ulceration. The weak liquor is employed as an injection for gonorrhoea, vulvitis, leiicorrhoea, and otorrhoea. It is also used in cases of sprain, and in painful affections of muscles. For this purpose it should be mixed with opium, as in the commonly employed lead and opium lotion, made by mixing 5 grs. of extract of opium, 5j of the dilute liquor, and sj of water. In- ternally, lead acetate is widely prescribed as an astringent in severe diarrhoea, as in dysentery ; and in hcemorrhage from the stomach and in- testine, as in gastric ulcer and tuberculosis. For these purposes the pill with opium, and the suppository, are specially valuable. The sup- pository is also useful in painful hfemorrhoids and in ulcerative conditions of the rectum. 4. Plumbi lodidum, a bright yellow powder almost insoluble in water. Preparations—(1) Emplas- trum Plumbi lodidi; (2) Unguentum Plumbi lodidi. These are sometimes applied in cases of glandular enlargements, especially if there is present at the same time some irritation of the skin ; but it is doubtful if they are of any real value.