LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF 204 sensation to persist are so disastrous, that early treatment is a necessity. (For causes, etc., see p. 187.) The various means at our disposal are :— 1. Postural treatment. 2. External cephalic version. 3. Internal or bipolar podalic version. 4. Embryotomy. 1. Postural Treatment.—In cases of slight obliquity of the uterus with unruptured mem- branes this method is sometimes successful. The rationale of the method lies in the fact that the breech and lower limbs of the foetus are heavier than the head, and therefore the breech tends to gravitate towards the lowest point at the same time that the head rises. Thus, with a head lying over the left iliac fossa the patient is placed on her left side, and the breech tends to fall towards the left side—the head then rising comes to lie over the brim. This plan of treat- ment is only possible in a very small proportion of cases in which the practitioner sees the case sufficiently early. 2. External Cephalic Version.—This opera- tion also requires unruptured membranes and labour in an early stage. The foetus is turned by external version until the head comes over the brim, when the membranes are ruptured. The head should be held with the hand, or by a tight abdominal binder, over the brim until it fixes. After version has been accomplished the child is very apt to slip back into the former position. It is, however, quite worth the trial when possible, as it gives the child the best chance of life. .3. Internal Podalic Version is indicated when external cephalic version has failed, or cannot be performed. The version should be performed as soon as possible and a leg drawn down; the case can then usually be allowed to finish as in a breech presentation. There are, however, some contraindications to the performance of internal version, namely, if a considerable portion of the child is driven out of the uterus, and when the uterus is in a state of tonic contraction with Bandl's ring 2J inches above the symphysis. (For methods of performing version, see article " Labour, Operations.") 4. Embryotomy.—It may be necessary to do this under the following conditions :—//' podalic version is contraindicated, for the reasons men- tioned above embryotomy must be performed. The main symptoms showing that the uterus is in a state of tonic contraction are—persistent pains, and the uterus continuously remaining hard instead of relaxing and contracting; the presence of Bandl's ring about 2 to 2| inches above the symphysis; increased pulse-rate; drawn, anxious expression ; and the vagina in a hot and dry state. Further, if the jwdalic version is dijfficidt, and if there is reason to believe that the foetus is dead {i.e. absence of foetal heart sounds, and the cessation of foetal movements; also, on feeling a loop of cord, the complete absence of pulsation), the embryotomy is the best chance to the mother; or if podalic version is impossible from too much of the foetus having been driven out of the uterus. The best method of embryotomy to adopt in these cases is to pull down the arm and de- capitate. (The operation of decapitation is described in article " Labour, Operations.") The choice of method to be adopted at the different stages is now briefly given. (a) The 7Hemb7'anes unruptured and the os not sufficie7itly dilated to admit tivo fingei'S. At this stage do not interfere further than attempting to rectify the position by postural treatment, or by performing external cephalic version. Any further attempts would only rupture the membranes luiduly early. {b) The membiunes unrupttired, the os suffi- ciently/ dilated to admit two fingers easily, hiU not fully dilated. Here, again, postural treatment and external cephalic version should be tried. If this fails, there are two courses open to the practitioner —either to remain beside the patient prepared to turn and artificially dilate the instant the membranes rupture, or, if it is impossible to stay beside the patient for hours, the best practice is to bring down a leg as soon as the size of the os admits of it. The former method affords the best chance for the child's life. (c) The membranes are ruptured, the os is not sufficiently dilated to allotv of internal version (i.e. it will not admit two fingers easily). In these cases dilate the cervix artificially by means of a Champetier de Ribes' dilating bag. When the OS is sufficiently dilated to allow of delivery, perform internal podalic version. (d) The membranes are ruptured and the os fully dilated, the uterus being moulded to the shape of the child. If the pains are not con- tinuous, the uterus relaxing, and the child movable between the pains, listen for the foetal heart sounds; if the child is found to be alive, bring down a foot and deliver by internal version. Should the uterus show symptoms of tonic con- traction, or there be unmistakable signs of death of the foetus, the best method is to pull down an arm and decapitate. Labour in Multiple Pregnancy Introductory ...... 204 The Anomalous Features of—Mater- nal Risks 205 Infantile Risks ..... 206 Management of .... . 206 Complicated Cases . . . •' 207 Introductory.—Labour in multiple pregnancy is, as a rule, comparatively easy, and yet the results to mothers and children are less favour- able than in single births. It is difficult to