JOINTS, DISEASES OF 65 ankylosis the joint is rigidly and immovably fixed; in the fibrous variety any attempt to forcibly move the joint causes severe pain, while in the osseous variety such attempts are painless. The treatment is influenced by the nature of the original disease, the variety and attitude of the ankylosis, and the normal functions of the joint concerned. If the aim be a movable joint in a case of fibrous ankylosis, treatment is directed towards elongating or rupturing the fibrous union between the bones. The gradual stretching of adhesions, by exercises, manipula- tions, douching, extension, and special forms of apparatus, has much to recommend it, given the required perseverance and fortitude on the part of the patient, and the encouragement afforded by indications of yielding on the part of the adhesions. The forcible rupture of adhesions under an anaesthetic (nitrous oxide) may be necessary, especially when there are one or more strong fibrous adhesions or bands; these give way with an audible crack; the procedure must be carried out with caution in view of such risks as fracture of the bone (which is often rarefied), separation of epiphysis, fat embolism, and restarting of the original disease; in any case it is followed by consider- able pain and effusion into the joint, which necessitate rest for some days before exercises, massage, and other manipulations are resumed. In selected cases of fibrous ankylosis, with or without contracture, it may be advisable to attempt to secure a movable joint by open arthrotomy, dividing or removing adhesions and other contracted tissues; this procedure, which has been specially named arthrolysis, has been chiefly practised in the elbow, and has yielded results which are distinctly encouraging. //' the mikylosis is osseous and a movable joint is desired, e.g. at the elbow, a sufficient amount of bone, and it may be also of periosteum, must be resected to allow of the formation of a false joint. On the other hand, if it he desired that the joint disease should result in rigid ankylosis, e.g. in certain cases of tuberculous disease of the knee, treatment may be directed towards favour- ing its occurrence, and in such an attitude as will secure the maximum usefulness of the limb concerned. To this end prolonged immobility in plaster-of-Paris or other apparatus is employed. This will not suffice in other forms of joint disease, e.g. arthritis deformans, spinal arthro- pathies ; in these the articular surfaces must be removed with the saw in order to bring about osseous ankylosis. When bony ankylosis has occurred in an un- desirable attitude, e.g. flexion at the hip or knee, it can only be remedied by an osteotomy or wedge resection of the bone, with or without such additional division of the contracted soft parts as will permit of the limb being placed in VOL. V the attitude desired. The fixation of the bones to each other by means of pegs may hasten the occurrence of osseous union, and afford an additional security of the correct attitude being maintained after operation. 1. Errors of Development.—These include congenital dislocations and other deformities of intra-uterine origin, e.g. abnormal laxity of joints, absence, displacement, and defective growth of one or other of the essential con- stituents of a joint, etc. They are chiefly described under " Deformities," vol. ii. II. Bacterial Diseases. — In those which arise apart from wounds the bacteria concerned are carried directly to the joint in the blood stream, or they are lodged in the first instance in one of the structures (one of the bones) adjacent to the joint. In the former, i.e. the direct infections, the tendency is for all the structures of the joint to be involved simulta- neously and diff"usely, whereas in the indirect infections the disease is often localised to the area first infected, and only becomes generalised at a later period. Bacterial affections resulting from infection of a wound implicating the joint are described under Injuries of Joints. Pyogenic Diseases. — 1. Those due to common pus organisms (staphylococci and streptococci). 2. Those related to acute articular rheumatism, pneumonia, typhoid, smallpox, scarlet fever, measles, diphtheria, erysipelas, dysentery, etc. 3. Those associated with gonorrhoeal urethritis and gonorrhoeal ophthalmia. The commoner 'pyogenic diseases are the result of infection of one or other of the joint structures with staphylococci or streptococci, which may be demonstrated in the exudation into the joint, and especially in the substance of the synovial membrane. The method of infection is the same as has already been described in diseases of bone (see vol. i.). The organisms concerned having effected an entrance into the body, are carried to the joints by the arteries. Their localisation in particular joints is determined by injury, exposure to cold, ante- cedent disease of the joint, and other factors whose nature is not always apparent. A distinction may be made between primary infections of joints, in which the organisms involve articular structures from the outset, and secondary infections in which the initial lodgment and disease is in one of the bones belonging to the joint concerned. The former are more often met with in adults, and are illustrated by the joint suppurations in pyjemia and allied conditions. The latter are more frequent in children, and are illustrated by the well-known "acute arthritis of infants," in which the joint lesion owes its origin to an osteomyelitis in one of the bones adjacent to the joint. The clinical diagnosis between prim- ary and secondary joint suppurations is rarely