JAWS 62 formation of the floor of the orbit, the floor and lateral wall of the nasal cavity and the hard palate, in addition to constituting the site for the attachment of the upper teeth, with their important functions and delicate nervous supply, we need not wonder that the exact diagnosis of the position and nature of the different diseases encountered is sometimes very difficult to de- termine. This is specially true of the various suppurative diseases of the antrum of Highmore and the various accessory cavities communicating with it. This will be discussed in the section on " Nose," where the differential diagnosis of disease in the diff'erent accessory cavities will be fully considered. The other general surgical articles will be mainly considered in the article on " Mouth," to which the reader is referred. Jecorin.—A substance obtained from the horse's liver (Lat. jemr, the liver), containing sulphur and phosphorus as well as carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen; it is found also in blood serum. See Physiology, Blood {Plasma and Serum). Jecur Uterinum.—The placenta. JejunO-.—In compound wordsjejuno- (Lat. jejunns, fasting) means referring to the portion of the small intestine named the jejunum; thus jejnno-colostomy means the making of a com- munication between the jejunum and the colon. Jejunostomy.—The operation by which an artificial opening is made into the jejunum, with the object of setting the stomach at rest, in cases of inoperable cancer; but it is of doubtful utility. See Stomach, Surgical {Cancer, Palliative Oj^erations). Jellies. See Diet {Animal Food, Jellies); Invalid Feeding {Prepared and Predigested Food, Jellies). Jelly-Fish. See Dermatitis Traumatica ET Venenata {Causal Agents). Jelly of Wharton.—The mucoid tissue or gelatine of the umbilical cord. See Fcetus and Ovum, Development of {Umbilical Co7-d) ; Physiology, Tissues {Connective, Mucoid); Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta and Cord {False Knots). Jenner, Edward. See Medicine, His- tory OF {Vaccination). Jensen's Pump.—A pneumatic force- pump used for detecting faults in drains; this pneumatic test is preferable to the hydraulic one, for it can be applied in all weathers, the pressure at all points is uniform, and it can be used for vertical pipes. Jensen's Tumour.— A malignant growth found in the mamma of the mouse, and capable of transplantation beneath the skin of another mouse and of growth and the formation of metastatic tumours there ; it has been doubted whether .Jensen's tumour is a carcinoma, but the weight of opinion is in favour of the view that it is a malignant growth and a true carcinoma. Jequiritin. — The active principle of jequirity seeds {Abrus precatorius), regarded as a mixture of legumin and jequirity-zymase; poisonous if injected into the blood. Jequiritol.—A preparation obtained from the seeds of Ahrus precatorius by Merck ; it is used in aff"ections of the eye, for clearing corneal opacities, but is contraindicated if disease of the lachrymal ducts be present. Jequirity Seeds. ;S'ee Abrus; Jequiri- tin ; Jequiritol. Jerk. See Tendon-Jerks. J eyes' Fluid.—A disinfecting fluid, con- taining cresol or methyl phenol. See Disinfec- tion {Chemical Disinfectants, Phenol). Jig'g'er.—The pulex penetrans, chigoe, or sand-flea, found in the West Indies, China, South America and elsewhere. The adult female penetrates the skin, especially of the feet, pro- duces her eggs, and so leads to inflammation and even ulceration; its attacks may be pre- vented by the use of the essential oils locally. J i U - J its U. —The J apanese art of self-defence on scientific principles, enabling a comparatively feeble person with knowledge of the art to over- come a much heavier and stronger individual who is ignorant of it; it means literally "the gentle art"; it teaches how to fall without injuring one's self, how to parry attacks, and how to utilise a knowledge of the anatomy of the body to obtain an advantage over an assailant. Johannisbad. See Balneology {Aus- tria). Johimbine.—An alkaloid from the Jo- himbehe, an African tree; it is said to have aphrodisiac qualities. Joints, Diseaseslof. Definition of Terms applied to Morbid Con- ditions OF Joints— Synovitis...... 63 Hydrops ...... 63 Arthritis . . . . . .63 Empyema . . ■ . .63 Ulceration of Cartilage ... 63 Articular Caries .... 63 Disorganisation . . ■ .64 Rigidity . . . . ■ .64 Co7itrcLcture . . . ■ .64 Ankylosis . . . . .64