LARYNX, BENIGN GROWTHS OF 348 globular in shape, occasionally lobulated, often distinctly pedunculated, but more frequently sessile, and may be greyish-white, pink, or dark- red in colour. The consistence of fibromata varies from a hard nodule to a soft, cystic- looking growth. Histologically they consist of connective tissue and elastic fibres, with a covering of epithelium, and in the softer varieties are found cavernous blood spaces, serous infiltrations, and haemorrhages. In the vast majority of cases the growth arises from the edge of one of the cords; sometimes from the upper surface or anterior commissure ; rarely from the ventricular bands, aryepiglottic folds, or epiglottis. In two cases only have they been seen to originate from the inter-arytenoid region. At times the pedicle is long and thin, so that the growth drops beneath the cords on inspiration, and is thrown on to their upper surface in forced expiration. They may be of minute size (singers' nodule), or large enough to fill the cavity of the larynx. This form of growth can usually be easily recognised by its smooth surface, and its origin from a vocal cord. At times, however, it is difficult to distinguish a small soft fibroma from a cyst. Cystoma. — This form of growth, though much rarer than the two former, is by no means uncommon. Its most frequent situation is the anterior surface of the epiglottis, where it is often overlooked, as it may not give rise to any symptoms. Cysts may also originate, though rarely, from the edges of the cords. It is probable that most cases recorded in this situation were really fibromata which had un- dergone cystic degeneration. They have also been seen to grow from the ventricles, the aryepiglottic folds, and the posterior wall of the larynx. They may be broad based or peduncu- lated, and are smooth, globular, semi-transparent growths, of gi-eyish-pink, yellowish, or red colour. They are of the nature of retention cysts, and arise from obstruction of the ducts of the mucous glands. Jurasz has suggested that, in those at the base of the tongue, the obstruction is probably caused by particles of food, as in this situation there is rarely any evidence of inflammation. A cyst can generally be recognised by its globular shape and translucent appearance, with the distended vessels coursing over its surface. But often its true nature is only discovered on attempted removal. Small cysts on the vocal cords can only be distinguished from degener- ated fibromata by microscopical examination. Singers' Nodule. — This term has been applied to minute growths which often form on the edge, or upper surface, of one or both cords in singers, especially tenors and sopranos, and in female teachers. The name, however, is an unfortunate one, as they are also to be seen at times in children, and in persons who do not use their voices professionally. They are dis- tinguished clinically by their minute size, and their situation at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds of the vocal cords. Histo- logically these growths may be minute fibro- mata, or cysts, or simply epithelial thickenings. Occasionally there is only one nodule, but more frequently there are two seated symmetrically at the point mentioned, or there may be three or four along the edge of one cord. They are seldom larger than a pin-head, and are greyish- white or pink in colour. In a very small proportion of cases these nodules have been found to be cystic, but the great majority are simply inflammatory thicken- ings, and should rather be considered as a variety of pachyderma laryngis than as true new growths. Lipoma.—Of this rare form of growth only ten cases have been recorded. It is usually a large solitary growth, filling the entrance to the larynx, and more or less obstructing both breathing and swallowing. The tumour may be smooth, lobulated, or branched, of pale pink or yellowish colour, elastic consistence, broad based or pedunculated, and freely movable. They have been observed to grow from the epiglottis, aryepiglottic folds, and posterior wall of the larynx. Seifert is of opinion that if we find a large, pale pink, slow-growing tumour at the entrance to the larynx, we may conclude it is a lipoma. Angioma. — Of this form of growth under twenty cases are on record. It is usually a single, sessile growth, very rarely pedunculated, varying in size from a lentil to a cherry, and of a bright or dark red colour. Its commonest situation is on the vocal cords, but it has also been seen on the ventricular bands, in the ventricles, and on the aryepiglottic folds. The appearance of the growth is unmistakable, and Browne has noted as characteristic that the colour of the same growth varies at different times from white or pale pink to florid red. Myxoma.—Considerable doubt exists as to whether a true myxoma ever occurs in the larynx. It is probable that the growths de- scribed as myxomata wei-e really degenerated fibromata, as held by Eppinger. In the cases recorded the growth originated almost invariably from the cords, was of a grey or pink colour, pedunculated or sessile, of a jelly-like transparency, and varying in size from a pea to a cherry. In some the surface was mammillated, and the growth looked like a papilloma. Chondroma. — Cartilaginous tumours are rarely met with in the larynx, as only about fifteen cases have been recorded. They may grow from any of the laryngeal cartilages, but most commonly from the cricoid. They are hard sessile growths, flat or irregular in out- line, and covered by normal mucoiis membrane.