LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 505 found to contain bacteria in every case ; but that idiopathic or true tropical abscesses, the result of hepatitis, may not show bacteria in their contents until after the pus finds exit from the liver. But the formation of pus in- dependently of bacterial infection would trans- gress the basis of our pathological knowledge. But liver pus is often wholly unlike pus from other parts of the body ; in many instances it scarcely can be classed as pus at all. The dis- charge more often resembles necrosed tissue, diffluent liver tissue consisting of broken-down liver-cells and tissue floating in a sero-sanguino- lent fluid. It is possible that the cutting off' of the blood-supply to a localised area of the liver, due to congestion or hypereemia of the liver itself, may give rise to this necrotic patch, and that bacterial infection may follow upon, instead of preceding, the pathological change. Be this as it may, it is a fact that many observers have substantiated the statement that liver pus issuing from a recently tapped abscess is frequently sterile for the most part. Malaria and Hepatic Abscess.—There is but little to justify the belief that malarial poison- ing has any direct influence in causing liver abscess. Although in many instances the two factors coexist, yet are they by no means coterminous in their geographical distribution. Moreover, the changes induced by malaria in the viscera generally are more of a cirrhotic or plastic nature than of a destructive or retro- grade character. Malarial pigmentation, the result of blood degeneration by the action of the Plasmodium, is not calculated to lead to necrosis of tissues, although it is true the cells in the walls of the hepatic capillaries are so filled with pigment as to obstruct or actually block the lumen of the vessel. Malaria in all probability serves merely to weaken the functional powers of the liver, to thereby render it more susceptible to disease and less fit to resist the influences brought about by chill. The clinical history of an individual case of liver (intrahepatic) abscess may present diver- gent points of detail and interest, but there are a number of phenomena pretty generally met with when a series of cases are studied. A European, on arrival in the Tropics, generally finds that the continued heat acts as a stimu- lant, and in mental and physical vigour he is at his best. After it may be twelve months the digestive organs may show symptoms of impairment, and hepatic derangements are apt to give rise to trouble. These may consist of digestive upset merely, or the liver may become actively congested or hyperaemic. Hepatitis, with the usual feverishness and local right hypo- chondriac discomfort or pain, may ensue, accom- panied by an intestinal flux or dysentery. The liver will be found enlarged, tender to percussion and palpation; and the patient will exhibit all the signs and symptoms peculiar to hepatitis (see " Hepatitis "). The end of the attack will be either resolution and recovery, or the inflam- mation may end in suppuration. In another group of cases the patient may be attacked by dysentery, which, after running the usual course, may end in recovery so far as the dysenteric symptoms are concerned. But he does not regain his strength properly ; the appetite is not good; work is a trouble, owing to fatigue and languor; he has sleepless nights, and suffers from headaches, backaches, nausea at times, depression, and irritability of temper. Attacks of fever at irregular intervals, or towards eve- ning, compel him to lie down or seek his bed; and after being asleep for some time he wakes up bathed in perspiration. Sooner or later he becomes conscious of a sense of fulness in the right hypochondrium, associated with occasional twinges of pain which become more and more pronounced and constant. The evidence of hepatic trouble is now so pronounced that the attention of the medical practitioner is drawn to the liver, when the probability of suppuration having taken place will be suggested. The Local Signs and Symptoms of Hepatic Abscess.—When an abscess of fair size occupies one lobe of the liver, percussion will elicit the fact that there is a general enlargement of one lobe, or that the outline of the liver dulness at one aspect of the organ is altered. The abscess may, however, be so small and so deeply seated that neither by palpation nor by percussion can the liver be made out to exceed the normal limits. On the other hand, when the abscess is large, one lobe may be palpably increased in size, or an increase in dulness in one direction is evident. The direction in which the dulness exists will depend on the direction the abscess takes; for it may advance towards the upper or under aspects of the liver, or it may bulge to- wards the abdominal wall or laterally towards the right wall of the chest. The abscess, should it advance towards the anterior wall of the abdomen, may be felt as a uniform, rounded tumour, smooth in outline, and yielding a sense of tension or of fluctuation, according as the abscess is fairly deep in the liver tissues or as it occupies the surface. The abscess may bulge to such an extent that its presence is obvious to inspection, and a distinct prominence is discernible somewhere in the epigastrium or in the right hypochondrium. If easily palpated, it may be possible to recognise that the parts around the abscess are hard and indurated owing to inflam- matory thickening of the liver. As the abscess approaches the abdominal -wdtW peritoneal friction will be heard. At first the friction sounds correspond to the apex of the tumour only, but as the abscess increases in size and still further encroaches upon the abdominal wall, the area of friction will widen in a circular manner. With the widened area, however, it will be found that in the central part friction sounds disappear, due