308 LACRIMAL APPARATUS, DISEASES OF followed by clear fluid, the tears, which are characteristic of this affection. The probe sometimes comes upon exposed bone, which has led some observers to regard these cases, not as suppurative adenitis, but as a localised in- flammation of the bone, a view which I cannot subscribe to. If the abscess is allowed to burst of itself the pus makes its way through the skin or into the conjunctival sac, and in the former case a fistula may result, and require operation as before described. Chronic adenitis is met with as the result of syphilis, tubercle, leukaemia, and as an accom- paniment of mumps. It may affect both orbits. The first symptom noticed by the patient is ptosis or drooping of the upper lid, followed in a day or two by protrusion and displacement of the eyeball with consequent diplopia. A blunt, often lobulated and elongated swelling is felt under the outer part of the brow. Some- times, but not always, there is dryness of the eye from want of the lacrimal secretion, and this may exceptionally be so marked that desiccation of the corneal epithelium may take place. Dryness of the mouth has also been observed from a coincident affection of the salivary glands, which may or may not be enlarged. Numbness of the brow on the same side may be present, from pressure on the frontal branch of the first division of the fifth nerve ; this soon disappears, but the power of lifting the lid and rotating the eye upwards persists, the sensory nerve recovering from the effects of the pressure sooner than the motor nerves, which is in accord- ance with observations of the kind elsewhere. The treatment consists in inunction of mer- curial ointment over the swelling and the brow and temple, with iodide of potassium internally in syphilitic cases, cod-liver oil with creasote in strumous cases, or arsenic, in the form of Fowler's solution, when neither syphilis nor tubercle is present. If the indurated swelling does not disappear we must excise it by an operation, which will be later described. Various new growths occur in the gland, and as the symptoms are similar to those of chronic adenitis we are led to suspect the presence of some growth if the swelling does not disappear or diminish under treatment, or still more if it increases in size. It is often impossible before excising and examining this swelling to say if it is due to simple hypertrophy or new growth, or whether it is benign or malignant in nature. In children we meet with sarcoma; in adults with carcinoma, cylindrina, chloroma, also with gumma, hydatid cyst, enchondroma, and some other rarer varieties of growth. Excision of the gland for hypertrophy or new growth is done in the following manner:—The patient is anaesthetised, the brow is shaved, and the parts thoroughly cleansed. A curved in- cision is made down to the periosteum along the outer third of the brow, and, if necessary, it may be prolonged for some distance beyond the external commissure. The edges of the wound are kept apart by hooks, and the tarso-orbital fascia is divided, exposing the gland, which is drawn forward by a hook and removed in its capsule if possible. The fascia is united to the periosteum by a catgut suture, a drain is in- serted, and the skin wound closed with silk sutures. With strict antiseptic precautions the opera- tion is usually free from risk, but a fatal case has been recorded. The operation very often leads to permanent cure even when done for growths, as they are often completely encapsuled, and the changes are confined to the centre of the gland, where cystic spaces often occur. It is much more often successful than in growths from any other part of the orbit. A rare form of cystic growth called dacryops, due to obstruction of one or more of the eff'erent ducts of the gland, was first described in 1814 by A. Schmidt. It appears as a bluish, thin- walled, translucent cyst with fluid contents, which springs into view beneath the upper lid. In some of the cases, from imperfect closure of duct, its contents, which become much more tense on crying, may escape gradually or be from time to time pressed out by the patient. A well-recorded case has been described by Arnold Lawson in vol. xvii. Trans. Ophth. Soc, and an interesting paper by Hulke in vol. i. Royal London Oj^hth. Hosp. Reports should be read. An attempt should be made to excise the cyst entire, as was successfully done in Lawson's case; but even if only a large piece of the wall is removed, a cure is often effected. Diseases of the Excretory Apparatus Diseases under this heading are much more common than diseases of the lacrimal gland, and are hence of more practical importance. They are met with more often in adults than in children, but some are congenital in origin. Heredity from the mother's side plays an im- portant part in their causation. Puncta and Canaliculi.—A constant symptom in all diseases of the excretory apparatus is epiphora or overflow of tears down the cheek, and when the puncta and canaliculi are the parts involved, this may be the only symptom. Epiphora is always aggravated by cold wind, dust, or smoke, and necessitates the constant use of the pocket-handkerchief. Although weeping is always present in diseases of the lacrimal passages, its presence does not always prove the existence of anything amiss with those parts, for it may be caused by inflammation of the conjunctiva, cornea, or iris ; and some people, quite free from ophthalmic disease, are liable to a temporary epiphora on coming into the fresh air. It is frequently associated with morbid