LACONICUM 306 Laconicum. See Balneology {Histori- cal, Hot-air Bath). Lacrimal Apparatus, Diseases of. Anatomy and Physiology . . . 306 Diseases of the Gland .... 307 Injlammation ..... 307 New Growths ..... 308 Diseases of the Excretory Apparatus . 308 Epiphora ..... 308 Foreign Bodies .... 309 Calculi 309 Polypi 309 Wound, Abscess in .... 309 Diseases of Lacrimal Sao and Nasal Duct 309 Inflammation ..... 309 Stenosis of Du^ct . . . .311 See also Alcoholism (Chronic, Visceral Varia- tio7is. Lachrymal); Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Conjimctivitis, Complications); Electricity (in stricture of the lachrymal d'uct) ; Fifth Nerve, Affections of ; Mumps {Affections of Eye) ; Nerves, Neuralgia {Symptoms, Lachrymation) ; Syphilis {Tertiary, Lachrymal Apparatus). The lacrimal apparatus comprises the tear gland, with its excretory ducts, the pimcta, the canaliculi, the tear sac, and the nasal duct. The lacrimal gland and its ducts constitute the secretory portion, the other structures named the excretory portion of the lacrimal apparatus, and our subject will be discussed under these two headings. Diseases of the lacrimal apparatus are about thrice as common in women as in men, perhaps in consequence of the more zealous use that the former make of the function of lacrimation. Anatomy and Physiology. — The lacrimal gland is a compound tubulo-racemose gland, re- sembling the serous salivary glands ; it is about the size and shape of an almond, measuring rather more from before backwards than from side to side, but its size varies if one may judge from measurements of accredited observers. It consists of two portions: the larger, called the superior lacrimal gland, lies in a depression in the roof of the orbit, just within the upper and outer orbital margin. This portion is in contact by its upper convex surface with the periosteum of the orbital roof, to which it is attached by fibrous bands; the anterior edge corresponds with, but does not project beyond the margin of the orbit; the posterior border reaches to the junction of the first and second fourth of the roof of the orbit; the lower concave surface is in apposition with the superior and external recti muscles. The lower portion, also called the palpebral portion or accessory gland, separated by tendinous strands from the main gland, is less constant in size and shape, and is some- times absent; it consists of one or two small lobules, which lie just beneath the mucous membrane of the superior conjunctival fornix, and may sometimes be brought into view by eversion of the lid and strong, downward rota- tion of the eyeball. The efferent ducts from both portions of the gland, some eight to twelve in number, open by a row of apertures into the conjunctival sac at the upper and outer part. The glands of Krause, similar in structure and formation to the lacrimal gland, are small, rounded bodies, situated chiefly in the upper, but also met with in the inferior cul-de-sac, and suffice to moisten the eye even if the lacrimal gland is destroyed. The lacrimal gland in its connection with the conjunctival sac may be well compared to the salivary glands and the cavity of the mouth. The secretory nerve of the lacrimal gland is generally reckoned to be the lacrimal branch of the fifth, but Goldzieher and Jendrassich have recently declared that it belongs to the facial nerve. According to Kirchstein the gland is very small and rudi- mentary in the new-born child, which accounts for the absence of tears at that period of life. Under usual conditions the tears are secreted only in sufficient quantity to moisten the con- junctiva and cornea, the greasy edges of the eyelids also preventing overflow ; the surplus is disposed of by evaporation and by escaping into the nose through the naso-lacrimal canal. An overflow takes place by direct irritation of the lacrimal nerve, by reflex irritation of the conjunctiva or nasal mucous membrane, by strong light acting on the retina, or by painful emotion. The tears escaping from the gland are at once dispersed over the surface of the eye, just like fluids between a cover-glass and microscopical slide, aided by winking movements of the eyelids. The puncta lacrimalia are two pin-point apertures situated near the posterior edge of the eyelids about 5 to 6 mm. from its nasal commissure. They are not quite opposite one another, the lower one being about 1 mm. farther from the commissure than the upper. They lie against the conjunctiva of the bulb, so that they are visible only when one causes slight eversion of the eyelids. The upper canaliculus runs vertically upwards from its punctum for a distance of 2 mm., then makes a sudden bend inwards and downwards; the lower canaliculus runs vertically downwards for a still shorter distance, and then takes a horizontal direction. It is of practical importance to bear this in mind when probing or slitting the canaliculi. The canaliculi enter the tear sac separately, as a rule, but sometimes by a common duct; the openings are situated at the outer side of the sac, but also on its anterior aspect. The canaliculi are lined by squamous epithelium, diff'ering, as we shall see, from the lining of the sac and nasal duct. The lacrimal sac and its continuation, the