LABOUR, INJURIES DURING 274 traction on the coccyx by the muscles of the pelvic floor. After a time all these symptoms, except coccygodynia, disappear. Treatment.—If the pubic or sacro-iliac joints are very tender, a blister will be the best treat- ment, with rest in bed. Later on, a firm binder round the pelvis, with avoidance of all exertion, is indicated, and will soon lead to the joint becoming normal again. If the sacro-coccygeal joint be affected, a blister often cures; but if the coccygodynia persists, or the coccyx is found fixed and displaced forwai-ds or backwards, it may require to be forcibly readjusted, or more rarely to be excised. 7. Injuries to the External Organs of Generation.—-{a) Laceration of the Vulva.— Tears through the hymen have already been discussed; but tears may also take place in the vestibule, or through the labia minora, or even extend into the labia majora, or the urethra may occasionally be injured near its external meatus. Evidences.—The tears in these cases, unless the swelling of the parts should prevent, are at once seen on inspection. The htemorrhage, unless some varicose vein or the venous plexuses in the labia majora are torn across, is not severe ; but bleeding from a superficial tear in these vascular tissues may continue for many hours or days, and be overlooked owing to the presence of the lochia, and may produce pro- found antemia. Treatment.—Any tear should be at once closed with catgut, or silk, to check htemor- rhage, and to ensure primary union. (6) Vulvar Hcematoma. — Occasionally a pu- dendal vein gives way during the second stage of labour, and if the skin remains intact a vulvar hfematoma results. Such an accident usually occurs in primiparge, because in multiparfe the veins are more varicose and superficial, and tend to burst externally. If a large hsematoma is formed, obstruction to the presenting part may result. Evidences.—The usual symptom is severe pain in one labium majus, felt suddenly during a "pain," in the later part of the second stage, and not infrequently some shock results. On examination the swelling of the labium is found to be irreducible, dark in colour, bulging over the labium of the other side, tense and fluctu- ating, but gradually getting less elastic as the blood coagulates, and finally getting boggy from oedema round the effusion. There is no impulse on coughing. It is distinguished by its history, and by its physical signs, from distended Bartholini's gland, labial abscess, hernia, and varicose veins. Treatment.—If there is definite, though slight, obstruction, and the head presents, deliver with forceps. If the obstruction is such that forcible delivery would bruise or tear the swollen parts, the tumour, after the vulva has been shaved, must be incised on the skin aspect, along the long axis of the labium. Turn out the clot, and apply pressure till the child is born, tying any bleeding point. If the wound can be made quite clean and free from any adhering clot, a few buried purse-string sutures will approximate the surfaces, and an attempt may be made with outside pressure to promote primary union. As a rule, such cavities do not thus heal, and may be packed with gauze and allowed to granu- late up. B. Injuries dub to Prolonged Pressure ON the Internal Generative Organs Caiisation. — In some cases of obstructed labour there is extensive nipping of some parts of the uterus, cervix, or vagina, between the head and some bony point of the pelvis, most commonly the pubic symphysis. We have seen that obstructed labour often leads to tonic contraction of the uterus, and subsequently to thinning of the lower zone, and to laceration of the stretched tissues; but delivery may be effected without laceration, and yet the tissues, swollen from oedema and haemorrhagic extrava- sation, lose their vitality. A slough then forms, and is thrown off in from four to ten days by a process of ulceration between the dead and living tissue; and if the slough be deep, it may include the lining membrane of a neighbouring viscus, such as the bladder, and a urinary fistula would result. If, in a contracted pelvis, the anterior lip of the cervix is nipped between the head and the brim, the part below the pressure becomes swollen, and this further delays labour. The part nipped soon loses its vitality, and eventually sloughs, and a utero-vesical fistula would result; or, if the whole anterior lip of the cervix sloughed, the fistula would practically be a vesico-vaginal one. In either case some bladder irritation and, possibly, some cystitis may follow, and some induration from cellulitis may also be found round the margins from which the slough had separated. When a uretero- vaginal fistula is formed, it is more usually the result of a laceration than of a slough. When a recto-vaginal fistula is formed it is generally at the perineal end of the vagina, and is usually due to a complete perineal rupture, with partial union by a bridge of tissue between two stitches, the others having given way. More rai-ely a slough forms opposite the sacral prominence, and an opening may be made into Douglas's pouch; but if so, the general peritoneal cavity is eff'ectually protected by rapidly effused lymph. Evidences of Sloughing.—Superficial sloughs along the vagina, and at the orifice of the vulva, are not uncommon, and are the result of pres- sure, and of the "glissading" of the tissues owing to the child's head pushing the tissues in front of it, detaching the mucous membrane from its deeper attachments, and depriving it of blood-supply. With antiseptic care these