467 LIVER, DISEASES OF Nature of Multiple Adenomata. — Cornil and Ranvier regarded the development of the adeno- matous tumours as a complication of pre-existing cirrhosis. Hanot and Gilbert, on the other hand, believed the growths to be a special form of carcinoma, and in common with Lancereaux regarded the fibrosis of the liver as secondary to the irritation set up by these growths. Brissaud speaks of multiple adenoma as being a kind of half-way house between primary carcinoma and cirrhosis, while other writers (Sabourin, Engel- hardt) regard the production of adenomata as due to the same causes that give rise to cir- rhosis, but acting on the epithelial instead of on the fibrous part of the organ. In dogs, tumours due to hyperplasia of the liver-cells, and prob- ably set up by infection, are far from rare; a few cases of a similar nature without any cirrhosis have been described in man. These multiple growths are, I believe, practi- cally always part of cirrhosis ; they are exaggera- tions of the hobnails seen in ordinary cirrhosis, and further represent an attempt at compensa- tion on the part of the more healthy liver-cells which have undergone multiplication (compen- satory hyperplasia), and thus account for the increased size of the hobnails. It is when these hobnails undergo fatty de- generation and necrosis, and appear white on section, that they are particularly liable to attract attention; for when this change has occurred they do not, unless bile-stained, sug- gest cirrhosis, but resemble multiple new growths. Fatty change and necrosis of the hyperplastic nodules are particularly likely to occur when thrombosis of the portal vein is superadded to cirrhosis ; hence the frequency with which portal thrombosis is recorded as associated with multiple adenoma, cancer with cirrhosis, etc. Thus in 15 cases of so-called adenoma of the liver that were analysed by Dr. LI. Powell, no less than 9 had thrombosis of the portal vein. Those who regard the condition as one of primary carcinoma of the liver adduce the presence of hepatic cells in the portal vein and thrombosis as further proof of its malignant character. But the presence of hepatic cells in the portal vein does not prove that the growth is malignant; for the hobnails being poorly nourished, and having by rapid proliferation outgrown their blood-supply, soften down, and by discharging into the portal vein or hepatic veins may induce thrombosis. The proliferation of the liver-cells may be due to one of two causes—very possibly to each of the causes at different stages of the disease. (i.) The multiplication of the hepatic cells in the hobnails may be due to the same poison that stirs up the connective tissue of the liver to proliferation ; this would be the case espe- cially in the early stages of the disease. In cases of poisoning by mussels similar nodules are produced, evidently directly due to the irritation exerted by the poison. (ii.) The multiplication of the liver-cells may be an attempt at compensation to make good the functional activity of the liver as a whole, which has been greatly reduced by the destruc- tion of hepatic tissue. It is a priori very reasonable to believe that the hyperplasia of liver-cells might become so vigorous as to pass into carcinoma. Probably this does occur, and so accounts for cases of multiple primary carcinoma of the liver. My own belief is that the cases described as multiple adenoma are all primarily cirrhosis, and that many of the cases of " cancer with cirrhosis" recorded by the French are not necessarily any- thing more than advanced cirrhosis, with hyper- plasia of the liver-cells in the hobnails and a terminal thrombosis of the portal vein. Morbid Anatomy.—The appearance of the liver is very striking, and suggests multiple secondary new growths, gummata, or even caseous tubercle. The surface of the liver shows numerous projecting nodules, which, however, are not umbilicated. They are white on section, usually dry and friable, but may, especially when there is associated venous thrombosis present, be softened. The sur- rounding liver substance may be deeply con- gested, so that the contrast between the hobnails and the rest of the liver still further suggests secondary malignant disease. The liver is usually somewhat enlarged in size, but may be smaller than natural. The portal vein is frequently thrombosed, and microscopic examination of the clot may show liver-cells due to the discharge of one of the softened hobnails into the vein. Sometimes similar thrombosis is seen in the hepatic veins. The lymphatic glands in the portal fissure are not enlarged. Microscopically the liver shows marked cir- rhosis, the masses that to the naked eye suggested new growth being seen to be altered liver-cells surrounded by a fibrous capsule; the interstitial tissue shows the appearance of pseudo-bile canaliculi, advancing cirrhosis, and sometimes extravasated blood. The normal trabecular arrangement of the liver-cells is lost; the cells are concentrically arranged, the more external layers being often flattened as if from pressure. The liver-cells vary somewhat in size ; often they are large, occasionally they are multinuclear; the active karyokinesis of the nuclei is an important evidence of hyperplasia. Fatty degeneration of the cells and haemorrhages may be met with, especially when thrombosis of the portal is present. The symptoms of multiple adenomata are those of the disease of which it is only an epiphenomenon, viz., common cirrhosis. It is found in a high proportion of those cases where.