237 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED uterus is very vascular, yet the genital canal is at this time so patent that the uterus can easily be pulled down, and the vessels secured. The pregnant uterus with cancer of the cervix has more than once been removed entire by abdominal section. This proceeding subjects the patient to unnecessary risk. It is safer to induce premature labour or abortion, and then, after delivery, to remove the uterus through the vagina. This course is desirable, because cancer of the uterus grows faster dvxring pregnancy owing to the increased vascularity of the uterus ; and because if left the cancer will probably extend beyond the uterus, and then its removal will be impossible. Delivery may be obstructed by an ovarian tumour. Such a tumour can only obstruct Fig. 53.—Ovarian tumour obstructing delivery. (Aftei' Tyler Smitli.) delivery if it be small enough to remain in the pelvic cavity. In that case, what happens depends on the size of the tumour. If it be small enough, the child may pass through the pelvis in spite of the presence of the tumour. If it be so large that the passage of the child, though possible, is yet difficult, the tumour will be squeezed and bruised during delivery; and this may cause haemorrhage into the tumour, or inflammation of it, during childbed. Dermoid tumours are especially liable to this because they grow slowly, and are, therefore, more apt to remain long of small size and in the pelvic cavity. The bruising during delivery lowers their vitality, so that they become a prey to microbes, which cause suppuration. In the course of such suppuration they often rapidly enlarge ; so that a tumour which was not dis- covered during delivery, even by repeated vaginal examinations, may within a fortnight become big enough to displace the uterus and cause retention of urine. A suppurated dermoid is the commonest cause of retro-uterine abscess in childbed. Dermoids sometimes grow in the pelvic cellular tissue; and when a dermoid behind the uterus has suppurated, it is not clinically possible to say whether the dermoid has grown in the cellular tissue, or whether it is an ovarian dermoid adherent in Douglas's pouch ; and it is not very important. If an ovarian tumour lies in the pelvic cavity, and is so large that the head cannot possibly pass it, the accoucheur should first try to push it up above the pelvic brim. Early in labour, before the membranes have ruptured, it will generally be possible to do this. If the head has advanced so far into the pelvic cavity that the tumour cannot be pushed up, the question is—Can the accoucheur remove it 'I The answer to this question will depend partly upon the features of the tumoui-, and partly upon the accoucheur's knowledge and experience in deal- ing with ovarian pedicles, and the instruments he has at hand. If he is familiar with the details of ovariotomy, and has the necessary instruments, he should, if possible, remove the tumour by the vagina. He should cut through the posterior vaginal wall (for the pedicle of the tumour will be behind the uterus), and thus expose the tumour, and bring it out into the vagina. Then transfix and tie the pedicle ; next seize the pedicle on the distal side of the ligature with two strong pressure forceps, and then cut away the tumour. This done, carefully examine the pedicle to see that it is not bleeding, removing first one pressure forceps, then replacing it and removing the other. When satisfied that the pedicle has been securely tied, release it, and sew up the vaginal incision. This is the ideal treatment of an ovarian tumour which obstructs delivery. Its practicability will depend on the length of the pedicle, the presence or absence of adhesions, and the skill of the operator. Should the operator judge it wiser not to attempt the removal of the tumour, then he should make an incision into it, and pass a stitch on each side to unite the tumour to the vaginal incision. The resistance of the tumour will be removed by its evacuation; and by stitching it to the vagina, any infection of the peritoneum by the contents of the tumour will be avoided. If pregnancy is complicated with a tumour too large to remain in the pelvis, the mutual effects of the pregnancy and the tumour may be important. The distension of the abdomen will be increased. The bearing-down efforts of the patient by which delivery should be helped, will be exerted at a disadvantage. Lastly, there is a liability to twisting of the pedicle of the tumour. For these reasons an ovarian tumour should always be removed as soon as it has been dis- covered, whether the patient be pregnant or not; and even if it has not been found out till the patient is in labour, it should be removed then, unless the labour is so far advanced that delivery is likely to take place during the operation. Pregnancy sometimes takes place along with