KNEE-JOINT, INJURIES OF 143 Epiphysial Injuries Separation of Lower Epiphysis of Femur 148 Separation of Upper Epiphysis of Tibia 149 Separation of Upper Epiphysis of Fibula 150 Dislocations Dislocation of Knee-Joint . . .150 Dislocation of Patella . . .151 Dislocation of Semilunar Cartilages . 151 Other Intra-articular Injuries . . 152 Injuries Sprains.—Sprain of the knee-joint is a common injury caused by a twist or wrench of the joint. It is associated in the majority of cases with a varying degree of tearing of ligaments and synovitis. In severe cases a sprain may be accompanied by haemorrhage into the joint, rupture of tendon sheaths, and displacement of tendons, or injury to a semilunar cartilage. Ligaments may be wrenched from the bone and the synovial membrane may be torn. Diagnosis of sprain is chiefly negative. Bony points should be carefully examined to exclude fracture or separation of an epiphysis, especially that of the lower end of the femur, which in children may easily be mistaken for a sprain. Pain and tenderness is often most marked over the attachments of ligaments. A certain diagnosis that the injury is nothing more than a sprain may be rendered impossible at first by the swollen condition of the joint. Prognosis.—After a sprain the joint is usually weak, and for some time—often months—is not to be depended on for active work. In the severer cases adhesions tend to form, and stiffness results which is troviblesome to overcome, and may result in a degree of permanent impair- ment of the joint movements. Effusion may per- sist and become chronic. As a rule, haemorrhage into the joint is absorbed without ill results. A joint once sprained is liable to subsequent attacks of synovitis consequent on very slight injuries or over-exertion. For a year or two this susceptibility may be a. source of constant annoyance to the owner of the joint. Treatment.—Rest, elevation of the limb, and the application of a posterior splint should be accompanied by either cold (in the form of an ice-bag, or Leiter's coils) or hot fomentations. It is a question which is the better. The sooner treatment is commenced after the accident the better is the result obtained. In using heat the best method to adopt is to place the knee at once over a bath or basin of hot water, and sponge it, keeping it as hot as is bearable by the addition of more hot water from time to time. This should be continued for half an hour, and then the limb wrapped in a large quantity of cotton wool, and a bandage as firmly applied as is consistent with comfort. Rest and pressure should l)e continued so long as swelling and tenderness j^ersist. If ligaments have been torn to any extent, this period of rest should be prolonged to three or four weeks to allow of healing of the torn structures. If the effusion be very great, immediate aspiration may be performed before application of the bandages, every care being taken to ensure asepsis. The subsequent treatment should consist of massage of the limb, gradual movement of the joint, and the use of a support to the knee when the patient commences to go about. Some surgeons advise the immediate application of a plaster bandage, accompanied at first by rest in bed and elevation of the limb, though later the patient may go about on crutches ; this bandage to be removed when sufficient time has elapsed to allow of repair of the ligaments, and then massage and movement commenced. A bandage or light leather knee-cap will be necessary when the patient commences to walk. In the treatment of old sprains the use of the Dowsing hot-air baths, accompanied by massage and electricity, often yields very successful results. Manipula- tion and movement of the joint under chloroform may be necessary to overcome adhesions within the joint and neighbouring synovial sheaths. Bruises.—Blows and crushes of the joint may cause severe damage without the skin being torn: synovitis, detachment of articular cartilages, ligaments, or tendons, crushing and splitting of the ends of the bones, haemorrhage into joint, and rupture of the main vessels may result. Slight contusions may be followed by tuberculous disease, arrest of growth of limb due to injury of epiphysial cartilage in the young, or a form of chronic arthritis with lipping of ar- ticular edges, grating and creaking of the joint. Severer crushes may be followed by sloughing of the skin, the crush becoming compound, or gangrene of limb from injury to the vessels. Suppuration is very prone to occur, followed by necrosis of parts of the bones, acute abscesses, and sequestrum formation, sometimes pyaemia; haemorrhage into the joint may result in ulti- mate adhesions and ankylosis. Treatment.—Where the skin remains intact even severe bruises are well recovered from. The treatment consists in elevation and the careful application of splints. Where there is considerable inflammatory reaction leeching may give excellent results. The ice-bag may be used unless the skin is much bruised, in which case it is better avoided owing to the risk of death of the skin. If suppuration occur, free drainage should be provided, small fragments removed, and continuous irrigation or immersion in a warm boracic bath employed. Excellent results frequently follow this method of treatment. In cases where the ends of the bones are implicated, or the main vessels torn, amputation is necessary.