LIVER, DISEASES OF 447 bile ducts, set up a descending cholangitis. This cholangitis leads to union of the inflamed surfaces of the larger ducts, analogous to oblitera- tion of the vermiform appendix after catarrhal appendicitis. Possibly among the different forms of hyper- trophic biliary cirrhosis there are some cases due to an ascending infection, though the majority are, like scarlatinal nephritis, due to a poison reaching them by the general circulation. A question which cannot at present be answered is whether poisons reaching the liver by the portal vein ever set up the lesions of hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis. As shown by experiments with toluylenediamine, poisons in the general circulation reaching the liver are excreted into the small bile ducts, and set up inflammation of the smaller ducts; this is analogous to hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis. As far as we know, poisons arriving by the portal vein tend to produce common (portal) cirrhosis. An exception, however, must be made for congenital syphilis (vide p. 475), where the fibrosis is intercellular. Bacterial Origin.—Although a specific origin for the disease has been anticipated, no microbic cause has been established. The colon bacillus has been found in blood withdrawn by puncture from the liver during life, and subsequently in the liver and spleen in the same case (Gilbert and Fournier). But further evidence must be brought forward before the colon bacillus can be regarded as the specific cause. Hayem, in a class of cases he describes as chronic infectious jaundice with splenic enlargement and exacer- bations, but which is very closely allied to, if not the same disease as hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis, found the diplococcus pneumoniae in blood aspirated from the spleen during life. The absence of suppuration and chronicity of the disease are against its being due to pyogenetic cocci. Probable though the bacterial origin of the disease is, further research is urgently required before it can be considered as proved. Morbid Anatomy.—The liver is enlarged, and weighs from 80 oz. to 8 lbs. or more; it is uniformly increased in size. Not infrequently there are perihepatitic adhesions, but apart from them the surface of the organ is almost smooth and does not show the gnarled aspect of common cirrhosis. Sometimes from secondary portal cirrhosis the surface becomes slightly irregular. It is of a dark green colour, and on section is firmer than natural. The portal vein and hepatic artery show no signs of inflammation. The gall-bladder contains bile, and is usually healthy, though its walls are sometimes thickened. The larger bile ducts appear normal. It is remarkable that, inasmuch as there is cholan- gitis, bilirubin-calcium calculi are not more often present in the ducts. Gall-stones have been found in cases of hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis, and can be quite well explained as a secondary formation; it is not necessary to assume that they are primary and the cause of the cirrhosis. Microscopically the liver shows monolobular cirrhosis; connective tissue of a delicate and open structure, fibrillar rather than fibrous, separating the individual lobules from each other. This fibrosis in parts invades the lobules, and then becomes pericellular; so that as compared with common cirrhosis, the fibrosis is less dense, but is more intimately related to the liver-cells. In addition there is in most cases ordinary multilobular cirrhosis. Very probably this is a secondary lesion, and may, as ChaufFard has suggested, be due to poisons manufactured in the spleen and conveyed to the liver by the portal vein. The small bile ducts show proliferation of their epithelium, which may block up their lumen (cholangitis), so that instead of being lined by a single layer of columnar cells, the ducts may contain smaller proliferated cells. In places there is an increased amount of fibrous tissue around the ducts, due to peri- cholangitis. The bile capillaries may contain plugs of inspissated bile or microscopic calculi. Around the portal spaces there are numbers of the so-called new bile ducts, rows of small deeply staining cells. A good deal of discussion has taken place as to their nature and origin; they are met with in very diverse conditions, i.e. common cirrhosis, acute yellow atrophy, and gumma. Various interpretations have been put upon this appearance. They have been thought to be new bile ducts, old bile ducts that from recession of the surrounding parts have become unduly prominent, degenerating and compressed liver-cells, or the result of compensatory hyperplasia of the liver-cells. They may, perhaps, more conveniently be called "pseudo-bile canaliculi." Though once regarded as connected with biliary cirrhosis no such importance can now be attached to them, inasmuch as they are met with in such various conditions, and are sometimes absent in hyper- trophic biliary cirrhosis. The liver-cells are often extremely well preserved, and commonly do not show the fatty and atrophic changes met with in ordinary cirrhosis. They may show signs of karyokinesis. Hanot laid stress on the absence of degenera- tion in the liver-cells; but this must not be pressed too far, for acute degeneration changes leading to icterus gravis may super- vene and rapidly prove fatal. It appears that Hanot's early observations were largely based on examination of a case that succumbed from pneumonia, and did not run the ordinary course of the disease. The spleen is also much enlarged ; it may, indeed, exceptionally in childi-en, be bigger than