LABOUR, OPERATIONS—CLEIDOTOMY 296 grouped under five headings. 1st: It is in- dicated in the case of the broad-shouldered foetus, where the head also is above the average size (and where, therefore, craniotomy will doubt- less have been carried out), or where the head is of normal size or deformed (anencephalus or hydrocephalus), when cleidotomy may be the only operative procedure rendered necessary. 2nd: It is indicated in cases of contracted maternal pelvis, justo-minor, flat rachitic, or kyphotic, in which the foetus may be normal in size. In such cases craniotomy is generally performed first and cleidotomy later; in the first and second types of contraction the division of the clavicles will have to be done at the brim of the pelvis, and in the third at the outlet. 3rd : There is the group of cases in which the foetus is large and the pelvis moderately con- tracted ; in these instances, it is the association of two difficulties neither of which is in itself sufficient to cause great delay, which renders cleidotomy necessary. 4th: Cleidotomy may be advisable in cases of breech presentation in which the shoulders are impacted. 5th : In all cases in which rapid delivery is called for (as in eclampsia, threatened uterine rupture, accidental haemorrhage), and in which the foetus is either dead or its chances of survival very small. Technique of the Operation.—The operation can be carried out very easily, and requires little or no special skill. The only instrument neces- sary is a long and strong pair of blunt-pointed scissors. Craniotomy, or craniotomy followed by basilysis has been performed, and the com- minuted head has been drawn down to the perineum by the cranioclast or the basilyst tractor, or by a crotchet. Delay now occurs due to the impaction of the shoulders in the contracted brim of the pelvis. By continued traction the difficulty may possibly be overcome at the risk of injury to the maternal structures, and with the loss of valuable time and the ex- penditure of much force. In order to prevent this delay and these dangers, division of one or both clavicles is enough. If the hand be lying with the occiput to the front, it is drawn well forward; the operator then slips his left hand up the vagina over the face of the child till he feels the clavicles projecting from the thorax at the level of the pelvic brim ; then he insinuates the scissors, held in the right hand, between his left hand and the child, until he is able to grasp the clavicle of one side between their points; and then with a strong snip he divides the bone near its inner end. The process may be re- peated on the clavicle of the opposite side. The immediate result is an astonishing collapse of the shoulders, and the extraction of the infant's trunk with very little further effort, or, at the most, with the help of traction with a blunt hook upon the axilla. I have done this opera- tion four times as an accessory procedure after basilysis, and on all the occasions I foimd it quite simple and immediately satisfactory. In one case alone, in which the infant was very large and the maternal pelvis moderately con- tracted, I experienced some difficulty in dividing the clavicles, which showed an unusual degree of ossification. If the contraction of the pelvis be at the outlet the procedure is not materially altered— indeed, it is simplified; for craniotomy permits the extraction of the head from the vulva, and the clavicles are brought within the range of vision and can be divided with complete ease. The same remark applies to the performance of cleidotomy in cases of the birth of an anencephalic foetus. The small size of the deformed foetal head permits the hand of the operator easily to reach the shoulders of the foetus impacted in the brim of the pelvis, or within the pelvic cavity, and so the division of the bones with strong scissors can be easily carried out. The skin wound is a small one, and can be closed with one or two sutures for appearance' sake. Advantages.—If we compare cleidotomy with the only other procedures possible under the circumstances, it will become at once apparent that it excels them all. It must, for instance, be better than simple traction on the cranio- tomised head of the infant, with the loss of time, the risk of injury to the mother's part, and the danger of separation of the head from the trunk of the child, which all accompany that method of trying to overcome the delay. Cleidotripsy, or the breaking up of the clavicles and of the tissues of the shoulders with a perforator or basilyst, is an awkward procedure, not easy of accomplishment ; it is quite un- necessary also, for simple division of the clavicle is all that is needed. Cleidorrhexis is a sort of bruising or breaking of the shoulder-girdle carried out of set purpose, and performed by some obstetricians {e.g. A. Miiller, Monatsschr. f. Gehurtsh., viii. 477, 1898). It is used in cases in which the body of the child is born and in which the shoulders and head are still at or above the brim ; and it consists in carrying the trunk first forward and then backward, until the shoulder-girdle gives way and moulding occurs. Supra-acromiotorjuf is another operative procedure, and it has been described by Bonnaire {loc. cit.). It consists in a localised embryotomy by which the skin and muscles covering the projection of the shoulder are divided widely and deeply; but it is not an exact operation, although it may conceivably be useful in cases in which the clavicles cannot be reached. It is quite evident that cleidotomy has advantages over all these competitive pro- cedures. The division of the clavicles at once, and very materially, reduces the bisacromial diameter by allowing the shoulders to collapse ; indeed, the clavicles alone keep the shoulders apart. It has been found by experiment that