113 KIDNEY hypertrophied. This is generally decided by the history of pain. An hypertrophied kidney has an uneasy ache, but a tuberculous organ generally causes decided suffering. Moreover, the cystoscopic appearances of the vesical orifices of the ureters differ, as I have just mentioned. The ureteric catheter settles the point, for by it secretion from the kidney is obtained direct. (b) The Hcematuria of Primary Renal Tuberculosis.—Attacks of profuse hsematuria from the kidney may antedate the characteristic symptoms of primary renal tubercle for months —even years. The practitioner is sometimes unable to locate it without the use of the cystoscope, for it may occur without any guiding symptoms as to its source; but this is unusual, for some renal pain and tenderness is generally present. The attacks are apparently causeless. As often as not tubercle bacilli can- not be found, for the amount of blood in the sample renders the detection of the bacillus difficult if not impossible; whilst in many instances the disease has not really broken into the pelvis, and the debris containing the bacilli is not yet free. A small collection of crude tubercle under the mucous membrane of the pelvis may suddenly evoke localised pelvitis and extravasation of blood, and this patch, small as its area may be, is sufficient to provoke a very arterial hsematuria for a few hours. But these attacks are nearly always as transitory as they are alarming. It is only later, when the disease has eroded the mucous membrane and opened the venous plexuses near the papillae, that the bleeding becomes intractable. In the intervals of these later haemorrhages the bacillus is usually found in the urine without difficulty, and the secretion has the ordinary characteristics of tuberculous urine. (c) Polyuria.—Some stress is laid upon the fact that the patient may pass large amounts of urine prior to the development of renal symptoms of tuberculosis, and this symptom is ascribed to the irritation of parenchymatous deposits of tubercle. It needs much circum- spection before allowing this symptom to influence the diagnosis, for polyuria is often a transient feature in the course of many renal diseases. (d) Morbid Clianges in the Urine.—The urine of pronounced renal tubercle is characteristic. It is light in colour, murky with mucus, deposit- ing a fine layer of pus and a few caseous clumps. It is always albuminous. It is faintly acid or neutral, and of medium specific gravity. Bacilli are discoverable, and if the urine is injected into guinea-pigs subcutaneously, a typical tuberculosis is produced in a fortnight or three weeks. Later, as the disease advances, putrefactive bacteria cause an offensive odour, and muco-pus VOL. V in large quantities is passed; pus increases in proportion to the grade of pyelitis. B. Symptomatology of Consecutive Renal Tuberculosis.— The Ascending Form.— The kidney in many cases is invaded by tuberculous changes which originate in the lower genito- urinary organs, and under these circumstances there are always pronounced symptoms attend- ing the site of origin. If the bladder be the primary site there is the history of frequent micturition, especially at night; pain after the act, at the meatus urinarius or glans penis, suprapubic pain on over-distension and slight hsematuria; or if the epididymis has harboured the primary focus, a history of causeless ab- scess or thickening of that body is always ascertainable. The practitioner cannot be too exacting in cross-examination for these symptoms, for the line of treatment to be adopted depends upon whether the form be primary or consecutive implication of the kidney. Diagnosis.—The renal conditions which re- semble renal tubercle fall into two groups, the early appearance of pus in the urine serving, although roughly, to mark the division. The First Group.—Calculus of the kidney, movable kidney, and renal tumours rarely produce puriform urine in their earlier stages, whilst pus appears very early in renal tubercle. From the second group, which includes septic interstitial nephritis, septic pyelitis, and pyonephrosis, the tuberculous disease of the kidney is separated by the fact that it produces marked night frequency and other vesical symptoms. Moreover, from both groups it can in course of time be distinguished in the male by the inevitable progress and invasion of the genital organs ; for a tuberculous deposit can always be discovered as the disease advances, in the epididymis of the same side, or the vesiculse or prostate. The great element in accurate diagnosis is the discovery of the bacillus in the urine. The cystoscope, if skilfully handled, is often of prime importance in detecting which kidney is affected {q.v.). Prognosis.—The prognosis in unilateral pri- mary renal tuberculosis is very grave; in the ascending form it is almost hopeless. Concern- ing the former it may be said that occasionally it obsolesces, as in fact tubercle can and does in other parts of the urinary tract. Evidences of this natural cure are occasionally found on the post-mortem table, but it is a consummation that is probably rare. It is possible for a tuberculous deposit in the kidney to slough out and come away by the ureter with the urine, but it is not common. The favourable cases are those in which the ureter becomes choked early in the course of the disease, and before septic material has had access to the pelvis, in which case the secretion of urine ceases, the kidney contracts and re-