468 LIVER, DISEASES OF at the autopsy, cirrhosis with thrombosis of the portal vein is revealed. Angioma The liver is more often the site of angiomata than any other viscus, but their occurrence is not common. Lancereaux, in an extensive ex- perience, has seen twenty-five examples. They are more frequent in cats' livers. They are usually single, but, like other inno- cent tumours, they may be multiple, and other organs besides the liver may be involved. Though they may be congenital they are more often seen in patients of advanced years, and are then probably due to a combination of con- gestion and atrophy of the liver-cells. In early life they have occasionally reached a considerable size. Angiomata are found immediately under the capsule of the liver, and most often on the convexity of the right lobe near the falciform ligament. They are of a deep red colour, at first sight like hfemorrhagic infarcts. After death they are collapsed, and somewhat de- pressed below the rest of the organ. As a rule the angioma fades gradually into the surrounding liver substance, but sometimes it is encapsuled by fibrous tissue. The surround- ing tissue may be stained by blood pigment (melanotic angioma). The fibrous trabeculse sometimes become much thickened (fibrous angioma), and so tend to lead to obliteration of the angioma. Thrombosis and organisation of the blood-clot in them may occur. It is possible that in some instances degenerative changes may result in an angioma becoming transformed into a serous cyst. Structurally they are cavernous angiomata. They can be injected from the hepatic artery and from the hepatic and portal veins. In a few cases an angioma of the liver is sufficiently large to give rise to signs of its presence. In a table of 75 cases compiled by Keen, where resection of the liver for various neoplasms had been performed, 4 were angiomata. No distinctive signs or symptoms can be put down to their presence. It has been suggested that murmurs or venous hums heard over the liver may be due to them, but there is little proof in support of this view. The only satisfactory treatment for the rare cases where there is a definite tumour, is removal by the surgeon. Lipoma, etc. Genuine fatty tumours are not met with in the liver, but detached appendices epiploicse may become indented on the convexity of the liver by the pressure of the diaphragm, and appear to be incorporated with the organ. Localised areas of extreme fatty change in the liver-cells are sometimes seen as the result of vascular disturbances and microbic activity, but they have no resemblance to real fatty tumours. A few instances of myxomatous tumours in the liver have been described, but it appears probable that they were really myxo-sarcomata and not pure mucous tumours. Multiple congenital fibromata on the sym- pathetic nerves have been observed in the liver. The other recorded fibromata in the liver are probably either syphilitic, especially the remark- ably fibrous formations described in hereditary syphilis by Marchant, or fibro-sarcomata. Teratoma. —A unique specimen of a primary teratoma of the liver has been recorded by Musick. Implantation of a dermoid cyst on the surface of the liver, due to rupture of an ovarian dermoid, was described by Hulke. In 10 cases of malignant abdominal terato- mata collected by Montgomery there were 4 in which secondary growths occurred in the liver. This subject, however, belongs rather to the section on secondary malignant disease of the liver (see p. 481). Cysts of the Liver Various kinds of cysts are met with in the liver. (1) Parasitic cysts, hydatids, etc. (2) Simple serous cysts, usually single, or present in small numbers. In size they are generally small; exceptionally, they are suffi- ciently large to be detected clinically. Possibly some of these latter are in reality sterile hydatid cysts. The walls of these cysts are smooth, and are made up of a fibrous capsule lined by epi- thelium. In the larger cysts the epithelium may be wanting; in the smaller ones it may be columnar, cubical, or flattened; ciliated epithelium has been met with, and has been thought to point to their origin from embryonic bile ducts (Musick). The cysts often contain the remains of dissepiments, showing that two or more originally separate cysts have united. The cysts are probably due to local obstruc- tion and distension of bile ducts ; it is noticeable, however, that cysts are very rare in cirrhosis. In the early stage bile is probably present,, but disappears as time advances; the fluid may be clear, straw-coloured, green, or, from haemor- rhage into them, reddish-brown. Other possible, but not very probable, origins for cysts are changes in the mucous glands of the bile ducts, dilatation of lymphatics, or degenerative changes in nsevi. The fluid is albuminous, and may contain blood or epithelial cells, htematoidin, bile pig- ment, cholesterin, or tyrosin. Sometimes a few serous cysts in the liver are found to be associated with granular and cystic kidneys. Such cases form a transitional step to the multilocular cystic disease of the liver described below.