LARDACEOUS DEGENERATION 318 seventy or eighty ounces, rising in some cases to as many as two hundred ounces per diem. Hyaline and granular casts are found, and may stain brown with iodine. Ziegler denies that they are really amyloid. The salts of the urine are diminished in amount, the percentage of urea falling along with the rest, but not, as a rule, to a dangerous extent. This feature is probably due to accompanying nephritis and not directly to the degenerative change. The amount of albumen is very variable, and the cause of its presence has been differently explained. Thus some maintain that it is proportionate to the extent of the amyloid change; others (Lecorche) affirm that its presence is a proof of nephritis. In some few cases it may be entirely absent (Litten). Paraglobulin is often present in large amount, and may exceed the quantity of serum- albumen. Intercurrent attacks of nephritis occur in which htematuria may be prominent, and the urine scanty, dark, and of high density ; it may even be actually suppressed. Dropsy may be well marked, and urtemic convulsions or coma may supervene in rare instances. No alteration in the vascular tension usually occurs in cases of amyloid kidney, and the heart is of normal or reduced size. Failure of the heart may occur, leading to diminished urinary flow, and in advanced cases to actual death. Diagnosis.—In patients suffering from chronic suppuration no difficulty is found in recognising the onset of amyloid disease. The gradual enlargement of liver and spleen, the increasing albiiminuria and polyuria, and the final onset of uncontrollable diarrhoea, present a striking clinical picture. On the other hand, in cases where the suppuration has ceased, and in those due to syphilis or some undiscovered cause, considerable doubt may exist. If a patient presents a uniform enlargement of both liver and spleen, there may arise, in adults, suspicion of cirrhosis of the liver or of leucheemia; in children, of congenital syphilis, or of mediasti- nitis with adherent pericardiixm and strangula- tion of the inferior vena cava. In alcoholic cirrhosis the history of the case may be an aid to diagnosis, and the appearance of the patient is seldom suggestive of lardaceous disease, the tendency being to venous stigmata and congestion of the face rather than pallor. Diarrhoea may occur in either condition, but is more intermittent in cirrhosis, and ascites is far more likely to occur in the latter disease. This last symptom is also prominent in adherent pericardium, in which, however, pleural thicken- ing or effusion is frequently present, while the area of cardiac dvilness is markedly increased. Leuchaemia will be excluded by an examination of the blood, though the increase of leucocytes may be temporarily absent. It must be re- membered that some degree of leucocytosis may occur in suppurative cases; but here the leucocytes will be found all to belong to the multinucleated variety, no increase occurring in the lymphocytes or in the large uninucleated cells. Syphilitic enlargement of liver and spleen in children may be indistinguishable from amy- loid disease, but the latter does not often occur at this age as a manifestation of syphilis. A history may be obtained of some suppurating lesion if such has existed, and will point to probable amyloid degeneration. If only the liver or the spleen is enlarged, diagnosis may be very difficult or even impossible. The history of the case will be the greatest aid, and the possibility of amyloid change must be constantly borne in mind. The existence of scars, pointing to past syphilitic lesions, or to old sinuses and disease of bone, is often of importance. Signs of con- genital syphilis may be found in keratitis, in scars at the corners of the mouth, in malforma- tion of the teeth, and in deafness due to bilateral otitis media. A case is recorded (Affleck) in which a misshapen amyloid left lobe of the liver exactly resembled a splenic tumour, and no certain diagnosis was possible during life between amyloid disease and splenic anaemia. In this case there was no history of syphilis nor of any other recognised cause of amyloid degenera- tion. In cases commencing in the kidney, diagnosis from ordinary tubal nephritis is often difficult—indeed, the two conditions may actu- ally be coexistent. Signs of amyloid disease elsewhere may be found, in slight enlargement of the liver and spleen, which might escape notice if not carefully sought. Any signs of syphilis will be very suggestive of degeneration. Past residence in the Tropics is also to be looked iipon with suspicion, as malaria and dysentery are possible factors in the production of amyloid. The condition of the heart and arteries is an important diagnostic feature, since in nephritis sufficiently advanced to cause the amount of albuminuria met with in amyloid disease the pulse will almost certainly be of high tension, and the left ventricle of the heart enlarged so as to cause the apex-beat to be displaced. In uncomplicated amyloid disease neither of these features is found. Heart-failure in renal disease may, however, somewhat mask the extent of the vascular change, while on the other hand it must be borne in mind that in children under six years of age the apex-beat may be normally near the nipple-line. If casts which stain brown with iodine are found, they are probably dia- gnostic of amyloid change, but the occurrence is too rare to afford much aid. The diarrhoea occurring in phthisical patients from amyloid disease is distinguishable from that due to ulceration of the bowel only by concurrent signs of the degeneration in other organs, and, perhaps, by its even more intractible character. Prognosis.—This depends, in most cases, on the chances of removing the cause of the disease. If suppuration can be checked before the patient is too exhausted, there is good ground for hoping