KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF 139 apply an antiseptic fomentation over the entire area of the joint. If there is exudation into the joint with much tension, the fluid should be withdrawn by means of a trocar and cannula inserted obliquely into the suprapatellar pouch. If the fluid is purulent, a free incision should be made into the joint above and to the outer side of the patella, and a drainage-tube introduced. If this does not arrest the local progress of the disease or the general toxsemia, the patient should be anaesthetised, incisions should be made on either side of the patella, freely opening the capsule and suprapatellar pouch, and drawing through tubes from one side to the other. The drainage may be further improA'ed by pushing a dressing forceps between the bones into the popliteal space, and making an opening there, through which a large rubber tube may be drawn backwards into the joint. Periarticular suppurations must be searched for, and if found, should be opened and drained. The more complete the apparatus for drainage the more thorough is the subsequent irrigation. Saline solution may be employed to wash away pus, blood, and fibrinous material; peroxide of hydrogen and sulphurous acid are the most useful chemical agents for irrigation purposes. Cases are met with, especially those from direct infection through a wound, in which, in spite of all one's efforts in draining and irrigating, the temperature continues to rise, the patient loses ground, and anxiety for the joint yields to anxiety for the life of the patient. The choice of procedure will consist in laying the joint freely open from side to side, dividing the liga- mentum patellae and capsule, and packing the cavity between the bones with gauze, or excising the joint or amputating through the thigh. The gonorrhoeal affections of the knee have been sufficiently considered in the general article on Joints; one may x-efer, however, to the predominance of hydrops, which may prove very obstinate, and in which one may find it necessary to evacuate the fluid through a cannula, and to irrigate the joint with protargol. Acute Osteomyelitis of the Loioer End of the Femur.—The lower femoral epiphysis and the adjacent ossifying junctions are very common seats of this disease ; at its onset it is frequently mistaken for an affection of the knee-joint, and regarded as rheumatic in nature. The lower end of the bone should be carefully palpated and compared with that of the sound limb, and considerable reliance in diagnosis may be placed on the recognition of the point or points of maximum tenderness. In the operative treat- ment of femoral osteomyelitis the incision should be made on the outer aspect of the limb in the line of the intermuscular septum ; having divided the fascia lata, a grooved director may be pushed inwards to discover the presence of pus beneath the periosteum; the opening thus made may be enlarged with dressing forceps so as to admit the finger, and permit of investi- gating the locality and extent of the disease ; the trigone of the femur is often found to be denuded of periosteum, and is especially liable, in neglected cases, to become the seat of necrosis. In acute osteomyelitis of the upper end of the tibia the superficial situation of the bone is of great assistance in diagnosis and in operative treatment. Chronic forms of osteomyelitis, e.g. Brodie's abscess, attain their maximum frequency in the lower end of the femur and upper end of the tibia; sometimes a sinus may extend from the abscess into the knee-joint, but even then the communication is valvular, so that it is exceptional to have a generalised pyogenic arthritis. More commonly the joint suffers from the formation of adhesions, and the conversion of the articular and interarticular cartilages into fibrous tissue; or it may fill with fluid, constituting one of the forms of relapsing or intermittent hydrops. 5. Arthritis Deformans. Osteo-Arthritis.— This may affect the knee only, or may be polyarticular. It may follow upon injury of the joint or of the bones in its vicinity. The changes related to the synovial membrane attain their maximum in the knee, and may assume the form of hydrops with or without fibrinous bodies, or of overgrowth of the synovial fringes, and the formation of peduncu- lated loose bodies. The changes in the articular surfaces and margins are more easily recognised in the knee than in other joints; fibrillation of the cartilage imparts a feeling of roughness or friction when the joint is firmly grasped during flexion and extension, while lipping of the margins of the trochlear surface of the femur is readily estimated after comparison with the healthy joint. When a portion of the " lipping " is broken off" it may give rise to the symptoms of loose body. In advanced cases of hydrops the ligaments become stretched, and there may be lateral movement with grating of the articular surfaces. Among therapeutic measures applicable to arthritis deformans of the knee, we have observed considerable improvement following tapping of the joint, in cases of hydrops, and injection of iodoform glycerine ; there is a sharp reaction and increase of the pain and the swell- ing for a day or two. Where the patient's sufferings are chiefly due to the presence of hypertrophied fringes, pedunculated loose bodies, or a detached portion of the lipped articular margins, great relief may follow on opening the joint and removal of the off'ending fringes or bodies. When the disease is of a very aggra- vated type, is mono-articular, and is the cause of serious crippling in a patient who is other- wise in good health, the question of excising the joint should be considered.