LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 518 constriction by peritoneal thickenings, to pres- sure of enlarged glands, etc., or in any condition in which, by surgical measures, the cause of the obstruction could be removed, that there is any hope of recovery. Relief by surgical operation is seldom possible, and the necessity for surgical measures are seldom sufficiently pronounced to justify their adoption. Treatment.—Relief by paracentesis is well- nigh the only treatment which is justifiable. Withdrawal of the ascitic fluid should only be done, however, when the breathing or circula- tion is deeply embarrassed. When hsemorrhage is severe from either the stomach or bowel, astringents may be employed. Diarrhoea when excessive may require treatment. To attempt to get rid of the ascitic fluid, or to increase the quantity of urine by drastic purgatives or by diuretics, are measures which are calculated to do more harm than good, as the patient's strength will not allow of severe purging, and the low blood-pressure prevents the kidney assisting much in the excretion of the body fluids. Surgical treatment with the idea of removing obstructions to the trunk of the portal vein, although in some cases rational, is in practice a negligible quantity. B. Suppurative Thrombosis of the Portal Vein.—The description given of the possible seats of the pathological factors concerned in the formation of adhesive thrombi in the portal vein applies equally in the suppurative form of the disease. The disease finds origin in some inflammatory lesion in which pus or ulceration has played a part, and from which, as a focus, the thrombosis may extend, or at which coagula may be formed which journey onwards to the liver and there get caught, forming emboli. The nature of the thrombus or coagulum is such that, either by bacterial changes or by altered nutrition, or both combined, the thrombosis is of a diffluent character, unorganised and ready to break down. Pathological Considerations.—It is inexpedient here to discuss the pathology of phlebitis in general, so therefore the question of whether the thrombus is the result of an endophlebitis or of a periphlebitis will be set aside. It is possible both endo- and peri-phlebitis play their part in the disease, the latter resulting from inflammatory lesions around the peripheral venous radicles, and the detached coagula determining an endophlebitis in other parts of the system. Periphlebitis, at all events, is a commonly-met-with condition; the presence of pus along the path of the connective tissue, surrounding the venous trunks with a coter- minous thrombosis in the lumen of the vein, being not infrequently found. The coats of the vein are swollen, congested, and infiltrated. The inner wall loses its en- dothelial lining, and is injected, dull red or yellowish in appearance, the clot adhering to it in flocculent masses. The muscular coat seems paralysed, refusing to contract when the vein is cut across. The outer coat and sheath are infiltrated with sero-sanguinolent fluid or with pus, and the whole trunk seems swollen and enlarged. The thrombus is almost in- variably soft and friable, reddish in parts, almost black in others, and with fibrinous coagula diffused throughout. The thrombus may lie loosely within the lumem of the tube, adherent only at irregular points along the vein wall. The thrombus usually undergoes a fatty degeneration and liquefaction, and the parts of the thrombus so affected have all the appear- ance of pus. Microscopic examination of these apparently purulent masses shows the cellular elements to consist of nucleated cells and of others undergoing fatty metamorphosis. 1. Suppurative portal thrombosis commencing within the liver itself is no doubt a factor in the formation of liver abscess consequent upon suppurative hepatitis, but pathological data are wanting. At the gate of the liver, however, a subhepatic abscess has been found associated with portal thrombosis; but which was the primary lesion in affections of this nature is unsettled. Portal phlebitis is a rarer lesion in liver abscess than is hepatic phlebitis. This is no doubt accounted for by the fact that the portal vein is supported by a sheath of con- nective tissue even in its branches in the liver, whereas the hepatic veins in the liver are more of the nature of channels in the liver substance having a wall of but microscopic dimensions. 2. Suppurative thrombosis may arise in con- sequence of affection of the trunk of the portal vein or of its main tributaries. Wounds of the trunk or branches of the superior mesenteric vein may lead to thrombosis. Resection of the gut, operations for strangulated hernia, etc., may determine the lesion ; and Lambron, in the Archiv. gen. et med., 1842, relates a case of a thrombus caused in this vein by the transfixion of a fish-bone. Gall-stones in the ductus communis chole- dochus, however, attended by inflammation and suppuration, may induce portal thrombosis. Suppurating mesenteric glands occasionally press upon and affect the vein, causing thrombi, which may extend for some distance from the seat of the lesion. Although there are many instances of the trunk of the veins being blocked by thrombi and surrounded by pus, it is usually impossible to ascertain which is the cause and which the effect of the condition ; but it has been demonstrated clearly that pus may sur- round a venous channel and yet no thrombus be found within the lumen of the vessel. 3. By far the most common cause of sup- purative phlebitis is inflammatory and puru- lent changes in connection with the peripheral