118 KIDNEY of it. In such chronic cystitis is present, and the ureters are dilated and thickened. The development of a primary pyonephrosis is more rapid than that of a hydronephrosis (Morris), and also more complete. Condition of the other Kidney.—It is seldom quite normal even in ixnilateral pyonephrosis, and may be congested and inflamed, or the seat of waxy disease (in 56'4 per cent of cases some disease is present, Tufher). When the condition follows enlarged prostate, stricture, etc., one kidney is always more damaged than the other, and the least injured organ shows a varying degree of suppuration and dilatation. In these cases the more healthy kidney unfortunately does not hypertrophy, and suppression of urine is liable to occur. Symptomatology.—Pyonephrosis is merely a stage in the progress of various urinary maladies. The swelling is in the lumbar region; if large it bulges backwards as well as forwards, the surface is usually lobulated, it moves slightly with respiration, ballottement can be obtained. In consistence it is firm, sometimes fluctuating. It is dull on percussion, except in front, where the colonic note can be obtained. It has, in fact, the characters of any renal tumour, and is distinguished from swellings of other organs by the same means as a hydronephrosis. It has certain special characteristics. It varies in size at diflerent times; when the pus in the urine diminishes the tumour increases, and vice versa. It is usually accompanied by general symptoms of septic absorption. Pain is seldom completely absent. It is usually a dull hmibar aching, and is liable to exacerbations when the pus is retained and the tumour enlai'ges. Sometimes it strays along the line of the ureter. Some patients suffer a good deal, and especially after exercise, and renal colic with rigors may occur. Pain is increased by pressure in front, but often relieved by pressure posteriorly (White and Martin). Tenderness may be felt along the line of the ureter (Albarran). 27ie Urine.—When pyonephrosis is due to " ascending " changes the urine is always cloudy, alkaline, has a thick deposit of muco-pus and an ammoniacal odour. When the pyonephrosis is " open" the urine contains a large quantity of pus. A deposit of pus, representing about one - fifth to one - sixth of the total liquid, is never produced by a bladder lesion alone. The relieving flow of pus after an attack of reten- tion in the pyonephrosis is often enormous. In unilateral pyonephrosis pus may be con- stantly present in the lu-ine ("open"); it may be intermittent or completely absent (" closed "). The urine in these latter cases is faintly acid, sometimes alkaline. During an attack of re- tention in a unilateral pyonephrosis the urine is merely the secretion of the other kidney, and valuable information may then be obtained of the working capacity of that organ. General Symjitoms.—There is general debility, loss of weight, the appetite is poor, and the patient suffers from indigestion. Sickness and diarrhoea are sometimes present, and the skin acquires a yellowish sallow tinge. Fever is present in most cases; sometimes it is slight, and if prolonged will become hectic; in other cases it is more acute. When suppuration occurs in a hydronephrosis the first sign will probably be a rise of tempera- ture, with shivering. Two types of pyonephrosis will be met with. (1) Where the bladder is free from disease and the pyonephrosis is vmilateral. These are mostly cases of stone in the kidney or ureter. (2) Where cystitis is present, usually with some obstruction. Here both kidneys are affected in varying degree, and the cause is in or anterior to the bladder. Clinical Types.—(1) Pyonephrosis in a case of renal calculus. In a case of calculous pyelitis the pus in the urine may diminish or disappear entirely, and the urine become clear. At the same time the patient complains of aching or increased pain in the diseased loin, some fever appears, and there is a loss of appetite and general feeling of debility. On examination of the loin a tumour is felt and there is marked tenderness. The block may remain, but often after a time the pus suddenly reappears in large quantity in the urine, the pain and fever disappear, and the tumour can no longer be felt. This may be repeated from time to time. (2) In a case of long-standing cystitis with obstruction the urine is turbid, alkaline, and ammoniacal, with abundant deposit of slimy pus. Without any noticeable change in the urine fever appears and some aching in the loins. The patient loses flesh, his appetite is poor, and his skin sallow. There is tenderness along the ureter on one or both sides, and in the loin, and sometimes a tumour may be felt. Here there is probably retention of pus in the kidney pelvis, but the symptoms may be due to a suppurative pyelonephritis. In the latter there is seldom a tumour, the fever and general symptoms are more rapid and severe, and the amount of pus in the urine is usually less than in pyonephrosis. Diagnosis.—(a) Hydronejyhrosis.—The tumour is not tender and seldom painful, there is no pus in the urine, and no symptoms of septic absorption. (Ji) Tuberculous disease of the kidney is differ- entiated by the cheesy character of the urinary deposit, the presence of tubercle bacilli in the urine, the hsematuria, and in the male the descending invasion of tuberculous disease along the urinary tract. Often there is the history and evidence of pre-existing tubercle elsewhere. (e) Pvrnlent collections opening into the