LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM 176 and the short axis to the suboccipito-frontal diameter, then an egg passing down a curved tube, like the lower end of the birth-canal, and having started with its long axis lying some- what obliquely to that of the tube, would tend to place this long axis in exact coincidence with the axis of that part of the tube in which it happened to lie, and one of its poles would first emerge from the lower end. If the head were not attached to a trunk, the mento-vertical diameter would come to lie exactly in the axis of the lower end of the genital canal. But the shoulders are now in the FIG. 24.—Relation of head to flnger when occiput lies to the left. brim, and are lying in the left oblique diameter; consequently there is a twist of the neck pro- duced by the head rotating towards the antero- posterior diameter, and the tension caused by the twist prevents the rotation from being quite complete. There is another reason for the incomplete- ness of the rotation. It will be seen later that the head in passing through the tightly-fitting tube of the parturient canal becomes moulded— that is, squeezed and diminished in whatever diameters happen to lie in the cross-section of the tube, and lengthened in those diameters which coincide with the length of the tube. While the head is lying obliquely as it engages. the poles of its ovoid, after moulding, vrill not be the anatomical poles of the mento-vertical diameter, but, in the position and mechanism under consideration, those of a diameter whose posterior pole is to the right of the middle of the vertex, and whose anterior pole is slightly to the left of the middle of the chin. This is the real ovoid with which we have to deal as the head passes under the pubic arch ; and its lower pole, the point to the right of the middle of the vertex, is the one which will lie in the centre of the canal, and will first emerge from the vulva. Extension.—It will be remembered that at the level of the pelvic floor the posterior wall of the genital canal takes a rather sudden bend forwards, and the axis has a corre- sponding bend. In consequence of this, the path of the head is changed from one in the axis of the pelvic brim to one in that of the — pelvic outlet. Now the trunk is still lying / in the upper part of the parturient canal, and is therefore in the axis of the inlet; therefore the head makes now a different angle with the trunk from the one existing before it entered the lower part of the canal. Since its dorsal surface is looking forwards the head necessarily becomes less flexed than before, and finally extended. The nape of the neck is at this time applied to the back of the symphysis, and its movement along this surface, which is the inner side of the curve, is very restricted compared to the large movement made by the anterior part of the head along the posterior wall of the canal formed by the pelvic floor and perinseum. The chin probably leaves the sternum to some extent during this extension. The movement of extension begins to take place before the head has rotated into the nearly antero-posterior diameter of the canal, and there is on this account some inclination of the head towards the child's right shoulder. As the head continues to advance, follow- ing the still curving axis of the canal, it becomes more extended, and the occiput moves upwards and forwards in front of the symphysis until the chin has escaped over the anterior border of the perineum, and the neck alone occupies the orifice of the vulva. The head is now out of the control of the canal, and any further rotations of it are produced by the influence the diameters of the canal have upon the shoulders. The shoulders entered the pelvis with their bis-acromial diameter at i-ight angles to the occipito-frontal diameter of the head, and there- fore in the left oblique. They descend in this diameter till they come to the pelvic floor; the posterior shoulder then slides along the left half of the floor backwards till it lies in the bottom of the gutter formed by the two halves of that structure, and, the antero-posterior