LIVER, DISEASES OF 486 primarily involved and the body secondarily affected. Symptoms.—At the onset there may be noth- ing to distinguish the disease from ordinary catarrhal jaundice. It is true there is generally some rise of temperature, but this is often seen in the innocent jaundice, and is not enough to justify a gloomy prognosis. There is malaise, vomiting, constipation, bilious urine, and not uncommonly muscular pains. This stage usually lasts five or six days, but m&j be prolonged for several weeks; it is suc- ceeded by signs of mental disturbance, head- ache, delirium, screaming, restlessness, coma, and occasionally convulsions. The jaundice becomes more marked ; it is due to obstruc- tion in the smaller bile ducts, the result of inflammatory lesions in their walls produced by the same poison that is responsible for the acute degenerative changes in the liver-cells. In some exceptional cases of acute yellow atrophy there is no jaundice. With the onset of these grave symptoms vomiting becomes urgent. The tongue is usually dry, brown, and tremu- lous, and the teeth become coated with sordes. Dilatation of the pupils has been regarded as an important sign, and has been so extreme as to suggest belladonna poisoning; with the onset of grave symptoms the pulse quickens and be- comes feeble and of low tension. The respiratory rate tends to be quickened or to become irregular. The temperature varies, but is more often depressed than raised ; it has been observed to rise before death. The presence or absence of fever has theoretically been correlated by Hanot with different microbic poisons, infection with the colon bacillus leading, like phosphorus poisoning, to a depressed temperature, while streptococcal and staphylococcal infections lead to pyrexia. Occasionally a red rash appears on the skin. Petechite and hfemorrhages occur under the skin, and blood may be passed in the motions; occasionally epistaxis and hsematuria are observed, and in women metrorrhagia. Pregnant women abort. The faeces may be darkened by blood so as to resemble bile ; in the later stage it is improbable that bile passes into the duodenum, inasmuch as the bile ducts contain nothing but mucus. But as constipation exists throughout the disease, some of the fseces may contain bile excreted into the bowel at a very early stage of the dis- ease. The dejecta are often extremely offensive. Diarrhoea is exceptional. Urine.—The amount is somewhat diminished; it is high-coloured from bile pigment, and pos- sibly in some instances from excess of urobilin. Albumin and tube-casts may be present. The amount of urea is greatly diminished. Leucin and tyrosin, to which great importance is attached as replacing the urea and signifying the functional failure of the liver, are not in- variably present, hence their absence does not disprove the existence of acute yellow atrophy. Sometimes one is present without the other. Leucin and tyrosin are sometimes spontaneously deposited from the urine. On the other hand, leucin and tyrosin may be present in the urine in diseases where the liver is not affected in any way comparable to acute yellow atrophy, e.g. in erysipelas, typhoid fever, leukaemia variola. Liver Dulness.—At the onset of grave symp- toms the liver may or may not be found to be enlarged ; this may be due to pre-existing disease such as cirrhosis, but it has been noticed in cases where this explanation does not hold. This enlargement is succeeded by diminution of the liver dulness, which may proceed rapidly until it entirely disappears. The complete dis- appearance is due to the atrophied and flabby liver falling away from the abdominal wall and allowing the colon to take its place. The liver is tender on pressure. The spleen may be made out to be enlarged. Some degree of ascites may be present. The stage of severe symptoms usually lasts for two days, and is followed by death in coma. In some instances the stage is prolonged; acute, subacute, and protracted classes have been made to embrace cases of varying severity. The pro- tracted cases show changes which perhaps justify the term acute cirrhosis. Diagnosis. — From phosphorus and allied forms of poisoning ; the absence of any evidence that phosphorus or other poison has been taken or vomited is, of course, all-important. The progressive diminution in the hepatic dulness and the diminution in the amount of urea in the urine are strongly in favour of acute yellow atrophy. The presence of leucin and tyrosin is not conclusive, as they may be absent on the one hand in acute atrophy, and, on the other hand, be present in phosphorus poisoning and in other conditions, such as typhoid fever, ery- sipelas, and even occasionally in leukaemia. In phosphorus poisoning there is an interval between the severe symptoms due to its irritant action and the onset of jaundice with severe constitutional symptoms; there is no interval between the first and second stages of acute yellow atrophy. There is more gastric irritation in phosphorus poisoning. In biliary cirrhosis the progress of the disease is very chronic, while the liver is enlarged. Prognosis.—When the disease has fully de- clared itself the prognosis is most gloomy; in fact, doubt must always arise as to the nature of cases that recover, and where an opportunity for examining the liver is not provided by death later. Some of the cases, of which a good number are on record, may have been examples of infective jaundice or Weil's disease of a severe character. I have had such a case under my own care