367 LARYNX, NEUROSES OF functional, adductor paralysis being due either to hysteria or to general weakness. Pm-alysis of the inter-arytenoideus muscle, at any rate when apparent, is always bilateral. The action of arytenoideus is to approximate and to rotate outwards the arytenoid cartilages during phonation. Paralysis of this muscle results in a triangular chink being left between the vocal processes during phonation; the voice is therefore very weak, or lost. It is always due either to hysteria or to catarrhal laryngitis. Total Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve Para- lysis results in complete paralysis of the vocal cords, " laryngoplegia" or unilateral com- plete paralysis (" laryngo - hemiplegia "). The vocal cord remains in the cadaveric position during respiration, and, except when it is helplessly pushed aside by the over-adduction of the healthy cord, in phonation also. The normal abduction of the other vocal cord leaves sufficient space for ordinary respira- tion ; but although the voice is sometimes lost, ordinary quiet conversation is generally possible, and the voice is sometimes almost normal from the over-adduction of the healthy cord causing it to pass across the median line to meet its paralysed fellow. The laryngoscopic appearance is characteristic, for during deep respiration the paralysed cord remains immobile; while in phonation the healthy cord is over - adducted and passes obliquely across the median line, appearing also to lie on a slightly higher level than the paralysed cord. Diagnosis of Laryngeal Paralysis.—Two questions arise in connection with the diagnosis of laryngeal palsy; firstly, "What muscles are paralysed?" and, secondly, "What is the cause of the paralysis 1" Bilateral adductor or internal tensor paralysis or paresis, or paralysis of the arytenoideus muscle, is easily recognised by the laryngoscopic appearance, and failure of the vocal cords or arytenoid cartilages to come into apposition in the median line during phonation; while unilateral adductor paralysis is never observed, or only so rarely as to constitute a clinical curiosity. Posticus or abductor paresis may be simulated in nervous patients by partial adduction of the cords during inspiration under laryngoscopic examination. The patient should be instructed to sound a sustained note as long as he can during the laryngoscopic inspection, for when the breath is exhausted an involuntary deep inspiration will be made, and the vocal cords will then abduct to their fullest extent, and then any appreciable diminution in the abduc- tion of one or both cords will be obvious. Complete unilateral, or pronounced bilateral posticus paralysis, is easily detected; the difficulties should only be possible in the earlier stages when the abduction of the vocal cord is defective, not absent. The greatest diagnostic difficulty is the differentiation between true total paralysis of a vocal cord and anchylosis of the crico- arytenoid joint. Anchylosis of the crico-arytenoid joint is nearly always the result of inflammatory infiltration in the tissues in the neighbourhood of the capsule, and the obvious swelling or deformity produced usually suffices to dis- tinguish between a mechanical fixation of the cartilages and a true paralysis. But in many cases the inflammatory exudation has subsided, leaving the joint more or less fixed, yet without obvious deformity or swelling; while in others the joint lesion has been of a more chronic character, the "adhesive" form with inflam- matory degeneration rather than exudation. I have often been able to distinguish between such cases of anchylosis and a true paralysis by the fact that in total unilateral paralysis the arytenoid cartilage itself is obviously pushed aside by the over-adduction of the healthy cord during phonation, whereas when anchylosis has occurred the arytenoid cartilage remains absolutely fixed under all circumstances. But, in course of time, a simply paralysed cord becomes more or less fixed from prolonged inactivity. As regards the pathological diagnosis, the following table, taken from Watson William's Diseases of the Upper Respiratory Tract, sum- marises under these headings the various diseases which may cause laryngeal paralysis:— 1. Cortical Lesions.—Hysteria. (Very rarely indeed organic lesions in- volving the cortical centres on both sides.) 2. Bulbar Lesions. — Nuclear degeneration due to syphilis, diphtheria, locomotor ataxia, general paralysis, disseminated sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, labio-glosso-laryngeal paralysis. Syringomyelia. Haemorrhage and softening. Tumours. 3. Peripheral Lesions.—Pachymeningitis. Intracranial new growths. New growths in the neck, involving the vagus at the base of the skull. Goitre. Pericarditis. Aneurysm of the aorta, right innominate, or the subclavian or carotid arteries. Intrathoracic tumours. Cancer of the oesophagus. Pleural thickening at the apex of the right lung. Enlarged bronchial glands to various tuberculous lesions. Injury to the nerves.