LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 215 pelvis. This is simply a small roiind pelvis with- out any rickety deformity, occurring in a patient fIG. 10. — Sagittal section of small round pelvis. AB, true conjugate; AC, diagonal conjugate; CD, antero-posterior diameter of outlet. who has signs of rickets, or what are taken to be such, in some other part of the body. I see A Fig 11.—Diagram of the brim of the same round pelvis: black line, normal pelvis ; dotted line, small round pelvis. BB, sacrum ; OC, end of transverse diameter; DD, ilio-pectineal eminences; E, centre of sacrum in plane of brim ; A, symphysis. no reason, in such a case, for labelling the pelvis with the adjective "rickety." A B Fig. 12. —Diagram of the cavity of the small round pelvis. AB, true conjugate; AC, diagonal conjugate; CD, antero- posterior diameter at outlet; continuous line, normal pelvis ; dotted line, contracted pelvis. The commonest cause of great contraction of the pelvis is rickets. The features of this disease which are important obstetrically, are softening of the bones and enlargement of the epiphyses The bones being soft during part of their time of growth, yield excessively to the forces which mould the shape of the pelvis. The sacrum, yielding to the body weight, sinks farther downwards and forwards than it ought to do, and hence the conjugate diameter of the brim is shortened. The body weight falls on the upper part of the sacrum. The lower sacral vertebrae are not exposed to this pressure, but are held up by Fig. 13.—Sagittal section of fiat rickety pelvis. AB, true conju- gate ; AC, diagonal conjugate; CD, antero-posterior diameter of outlet. strong ligaments which connect them with the ilia; hence the sacral curve from above down- wards is exaggerated, the upper part of the bone being abruptly curved forwards. The body weight falls upon the middle of the bone, the sides are held up by their ligamentous attachments to the ilia; hence the middle of A Fig. 14.—Diagram of rickety flat pelvis. BB, sacrum at level of brim ; CC, transverse diameters; DD ilio-pectineal emi- nences; A, pubes; continuous line, normal pelvis; dotted line, contracted pelvis. the sacrum is bulged down, and its anterior surface becomes convex from side to side, instead of concave, as in a normal sacrum. The down- ward pressure of the body weight is transmitted through the ilia to the femora, and by them to the legs and feet; its direction, therefore, is along a line from the sacrum to the feet. The acetabula are situated outside this line; the femora, therefore, press the acetabula upwards