JAUNDICE 55 murmur may become audible, and from increased pressure in the pulmonary circulation due to this cause, or possibly to reflex constriction of the pulmonary vessels referred from the bile ducts, the second sound over the pulmonary artery becomes accentuated. The liver is often enlarged from damming up of the bile, and may be tender. In malignant disease and cirrhosis its surface may be knobby or irregular. Enlargement of the gall-bladder is a valuable sign of obstruction of the common duct. When chronic jaundice is due to gall-stones, the gall- bladder is collapsed from previous cholecystitis, while in cases of malignant disease pi-essing on the common bile duct the gall-bladder may form a tense, pear-shaped tumour. If a calculus be impacted in the cystic duct the gall-bladder may be distended with mucus, and occasionally it is enlarged from the presence of numerous calculi; these are exceptions to the general rule enunciated by Courvoisier, that in jaundice due to gall-stones the gall-bladder is collapsed. The spleen is usually not enlarged, but if it is it points to biliary cirrhosis, some septic or toxic process, such as Weil's disease or infective jaundice, to syphilis, or to that extremely rare condition, alveolar hydatid. The temperature, like the functions of the body generally in simple obstructive jaundice, is de- pressed. Fever, when present, is either due to the same cavise that is responsible for the jaundice, as in toxjemic jaundice, Weil's disease, and cirrhosis, or is the result of some complica- tion, such as cholangitis in gall-stone obstruction. Symjitoms.—The symptoms that may be met with accompanying jaundice are due partly to the presence of bile in the circulation, which acts as a depressing poison, partly to a secondary toxaemia due to the liver failing to perform its important protective function of stopping poison brought to it from the alimentary canal, and partly to the absence of bile from the alimentary canal. These distinctions in the causation of the symptoms must not be pressed too far, but it will be convenient to consider the symptoms under the following heads :— Symptoms due to Bile in the Circulation.— Bilirubin is said to be ten times more toxic than the bile acids. It will be noticed that in cases of jaundice a considerable amount of the bile pigment is fixed in the tissues, which become thereby bile-stained ; in this way the rest of the body is protected from the full toxic effects of all the bile pigment that has entered into the circulation. The tissues in which the bile pigment settles suffer ; for example, in the skin the irritation of the cutaneous nerves shows itself by pruritus, which may be very trouble- some and prevent sleep. Scratching thus induced may be the cause of pimples and traumatic eczema, while urticaria and lichen are sometimes seen. A bitter taste in the mouth is often com- plained of, although the saliva does not contain bile pigment; this bitter flavour may depend on the presence of toxic bodies, which, owing to hepatic insufliciency, have escaped into the general circulation and passed into the saliva, and if so, would properly come in the next category. There is often considerable impairment of appetite, with a special distaste for fatty foods. Mental depression, low spirits, and incapacity for continued thought or application are com- monly seen. Yellow vision or xanthopsia, due to the media of the eyes being jaundiced, is sometimes found to be present on inquiry, but is hardly ever a prominent symptom. It is indeed better marked after the ingestion of santonin than in jaundice. Symptoms diie to the Presence of Poisons other than Bile in the Circulation.—Owing to the failure of the liver to stop poisons received from the alimentary canal, auto-intoxication results, and if the kidneys do not compensate for this by free diuresis, a toxsemic condition, analogous to that of ursemia, results. Drowsi- ness, delirium, and somnolence passing into coma may develop. Symptoms due to the Absence of Bile from the Intestinal Tract.—Constipation is very common, and is usually explained as due to the absence of the natural purgative—the bile. Excessive fermentation with flatulence and extremely off'ensive motions may occur, while interference with the digestion and with the absorption of fatty food leads to an excessive amount of fat in the fseces (steatorrhoea). Diagnosis.—As has already been pointed out, jaundice may be overlooked altogether if the patient is only seen by yellow artificial light, such as gas or candle illumination. No serious difficulty should arise in distinguishing jaundice from other pigmentary changes in the skin. The yellow colour of patients with slight icterus is hardly likely to be confused with the bronzing of siuiburn, with the natural hue of the yellow-skinned races of mankind, or with the tint of the skin in the advanced cachexia of malignant disease; but should any question arise, examination of the conjunctivae, and of the urine for the pi-esence of bile pigment, will quickly settle the matter. The dark green colour of the skin in black jaundice of long-continued biliary obstruction might conceivably be confused with the pigmen- tation of the skin in Addison's disease, hsemo- chromatosis, malarial melansemia, argyria, etc., but here again examination of the urine and conjunctivae will prevent error. The past eff'ects of severe jaundice may give rise to some difiiculty, but further investigation and the history of the case should make matters clear.