LUMBAGO 529 another week. On several occasions patient has experienced severe pain in the abdominal, pectoral, and neck muscles of a nature similar to the above, but less in degree. The hereditary predisposition in this case was very pronounced. The father and mother have both suffered from lumbago as far back as patient can remember, and a brother had a very severe attack when set. 18. This case was a little exceptional in respect of the absence, so far as noted, of definite constitutional disturbance. Some derangement of appetite, furred tongue, and febrile urine are very common; and it is probable that if the state of the bowels was very closely inquired into both previous to and during an attack, some evidence would be forthcoming of con- stipation and increased foetor of evacuations, pointing to a source of toxic poisoning. It is one of the striking features of this disease, that it may be present under circumstances apparently least favourable to its development. Thus it is not infrequently met with after active exercise, such as a round of golf, especially in subjects of a sedentary occupation. (To prevent any misconception as to the writer's views on the vakie of that exercise, he might here state that in such a case the best plan of treat- ment is to recommend another round, followed by a hot bath.) Again it is frequently seen in middle-aged and elderly gentlemen in the autumn, after the summer holiday; in this respect it resembles some other conditions. Etiology.—What is the etiology of this con- dition 1 In the absence of definite pathological data to go upon we can only theorise. The views commonly expressed are as follows :— (a) Inflammatory changes in the muscles or intermuscular connective tissue. (h) Neuralgiac afi"ections of the nerve termina- tions in the muscles. (c) Actual rupture of muscle-fibres at the seat of attachment to the iliac crest. It is unnecessary to discuss these views in detail. Personally I am inclined to the view that a thrombosis of the arterioles and capil- laries best explains many of the subacute and chronic cases; it probably also plays a part in the more acute cases. The cause of this is to be sought in the action of some toxic substance which, from reasons already noted, accumulates in that region to an extent sufficient to induce pronounced vascular and probably also muscular and nervous changes. The source of this toxic substance is partly in the alimentary canal and partly in the tissues themselves. The disease is, in short, in most cases merely a local expression of a toxaemia. It is probable that if the blood was carefully examined before, during, and after a paroxysm, much important evidence in favour of this view would be obtained ; the well-known facts of its occurrence after exposure to cold, fatigue, and the like, are also in its favour. VOL. V Differential Diagnosis.—Very little need be said under this head. Renal conditions must be differentiated; and this, in doubtful cases, can only be done after a systematic examination of centrifuged urine. We must also bear in mind that this region is the favourite site for the initial pain of some infectious disease— e.g. influenza, smallpox, etc. (This point is of special interest in view of the theory suggested as to the toxic nature of this condition.) In women, coxalgia may have to be eliminated before any conclusion be arrived at. As a rule, however, the diagnosis is perfectly apparent. Treatment.—Whether that view be correct or not, there is no doubt that it constitutes the safest and best guide to treatment. The main principles of treatment are :— 1. Promote depletion by (a) a brisk purgative, and {b) by diaphoresis, preferably by a hot bath, Turkish bath, or the like. The degree of this depends on the type of the individual. Sthenic patients require more powerful mea- sures ; in asthenic cases these measures may be advantageously combined with judicious stimulation. 2. Put the muscles out of action by adopting the recumbent posture ; soothe the part by the application of heat. The manner of heat is immaterial. 3. The food and drink should be restricted in amount, and of the simplest quality ; water- drinking should be encouraged. 4. When the services of a really skilled masseur can be obtained, they are invaluable even in the acute stages. The judicious use of effleurage, etc., in combination with heat will usually eff'ect a wonderful relief, even to apparent cure. In the hands of some authorities various drugs have been found useful, especially sali- cylate of soda, phenacetin, guaiacum, pot. iodide, etc.; but the writer's experience leads him to lay very little stress on drug treatment of this condition. Similarly, external applications other than those mentioned are, he believes, compara- tively inert. Chronic cases should be treated along lines similar to those already laid down. Seek to restore the impeded circulation in the capillaries, and renew the secretory and excretory processes of which they are the agents. Balneological measures are of the first importance, both as prophylactic and curative remedies. To those who cannot readily obtain the requisite amount of active exercise and fresh air desirable, it is advisable to recommend the daily perform- ance of two or three studied muscular move- ments—movements calculated to bring into play those muscles whose function, through non-use, is being abused. These movements are best done in the morning, and should be performed slowly, and extend over at least ten to fifteen minutes. 34