LIVER—TKOPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 494 channels for the vasralar and lymphatic com- munications of the liver. The practitioner is therefore in a dilemma concerning the prog- nosis, as, on the one hand, perihepatic adhesions by inducing induration may injure the liver tissue, whilst, on the other hand, given a cirrhosed livei", perihepatic adhesions will help the liver to acquire an additional blood-supply. If jaundice is present with the other clinical evidence of cirrhosis, then is it almost certain that the liver is seriously cirrhosed; but when jaundice and ascites are absent, the pain, etc., in the region of the liver is in all probability of perihepatic origin and the liver tissue is not seriously involved. Prognosis. — Perihepatitis may be a mere local condition brought on by chill and exposure, and may subside without further recurrence. Perihepatitis supervening in a case of cirrhosis may be beneficial in its effects by allowing an increased and alternative blood-supply to the liver. Recurrent attacks of perihepatitis in a person with a fairly normal liver may set up a capsulitis, and the fibrous change advancing into the liver substance will, in time, interfere with the nutrition of the liver-cells themselves, inducing atrophy. It is therefore of the utmost importance in prognosis to ascertain the con- dition of the liver, of the peritoneum, and of the kidneys before coming to a conclusion. Treatment.—When the signs and symptoms of perihepatitis are pronounced, a definite line of treatment must be pursued. Rest in bed is of primary importance, whilst at the same time the warmth of the bed-clothes is beneficial. The diet is of consequence — red meats and alcohol being strictly withheld. Locally, the pain may be relieved by poultices and hot packs ; or, when very severe, the right side may require strapping, so as to prevent movement. Counter- irritation may be applied over the hepatic area by means of oil of mustard, sinapisms, or the liniment of iodine. Eight or ten leeches applied over the region of the liver frequently checks the progress of the inflammation. Should ascites develop, paracentesis may become necessary. In addition to local treatment the liver may be acted upon by therapeutic means. Sulphate of soda will best serve the purpose of a hepatic drain, the effervescing preparation being the more agreeable form in which to administer the drug. Recurrent perihepatitis must be treated, to begin with, in a manner similar to that em- ployed for the acute form. As hepatic congestion is usually present with this condition, it is well to administer tlia chloride of ammonium in an alkaline mixture for some days after the more pronounced symptoms have disappeared. Iodide of potassium is to be recommended as a means of counteracting the local tendency to fibrous deposit, after a subacute attack of perihepatitis has subsided. Old-standing adhesions, the result of peri- hepatitis, are to be treated by massage and by hot packs, followed by inunctions (of mercurial ointment). Systematic exercises, especially de- voted to chest expansion and movements of the arms, especially the right, are of benefit in loosening the adhesions between the liver and the diaphragm or abdominal wall. Perihepatitis may be induced in advanced cirrhosis by exposing the liver by abdominal section, and " ruffling " the peritoneum over the liver by scraping with a blunt instrument or other means. The beneficial effects of such treatment can only be expected in exceptional cases, where cirrhosis of the liver is marked and uncomj)licated by kidney disease, by cardiac or pulmonary regurgitation, or by any of the deposits and infiltrations to which the liver is liable. Acute Hepatitis, Malarial Hepatitis Definition.—Acute inflammation of the par- enchyma of the liver. Etiology. —By far the commonest cause of acute hepatitis is malaria. In temperate cli- mates derangement of the liver, associated with a determination of blood to the organ, seldom passes beyond the stage of acute hyperaemia. The chief exception to this statement is to be met with in cases of alcoholic engorgement; but primary hepatitis is not usually of alcoholic origin. Alcohol induces a gradual induration of the connective tissue of the liver, the chronicity of whicli is occasionally interrupted by acute hypersemia of the organ, or it may occasionally amount to an actual acute inflammation. A primary hepatitis, however, is uncommon outside warm climates, and the cause, rightly or wrongly, is assigned to malaria. Exposure to cold or to the sun alone, or climate, may be factors in the genesis of hepatitis, even when the malarial parasite is present in the blood; and proofs are not wanting that from some such causes, independently of malaria, hepatitis may arise. The writer treated a case of acute hepatitis going on to suppuration on a man who had arrived in the Tropics but five weeks previously, who had never had dysentery nor an attack of malaria. Signs and Symptoms.—The chief distinction between congestion and inflammation of the liver is the absence or presence of fever. It may be taken as a maxim that, given a tem- perature over 100° F. in derangements confined to the liver itself, hepatitis is present. The borderland between hypersemia and inflamma- tion of the liver is but a step, and the state of the temperature seems the most reliable factor in determining the distinction. Each possesses several points of individuality, but the signs and symptoms of hepatitis seem but an aggra- vated form of those met with in hyperpemia. The pain in hepatitis is greater, both whilst the patient is at rest and during movement;