LARYNX, BENIGN GROWTHS OF 351 growths ; and while the choice of instrument will partly depend on the situation, size, and nature of the growth to be removed, the individual preference of the operator is probably the most important factor. It is unnecessary to describe in detail all these instruments; but we may state that two, a cutting forceps and a snare, will be found sufficient for all purposes. In fact, we might almost say that the former alone is sufficient, as the chief merit of the snare is that with it one can scarcely do any harm. It is occasionally of use, however, in the difficult growths at the anterior commissure. I have never seen the advantage of a large and powerful forceps, such as that of Mackenzie, though it has always been the favourite instru- ment in this country; and the right-angled curve, which he adopted in order to avoid touching the epiglottis, is no longer required with cocaine aneesthesia. The delicate, catheter-curved instruments, such as the forceps of Schroetter or Jurasz, or the double curette of Krause, permit of all manipulations being completely controlled by the eye, and can be used to raise the epiglottis so as to get at growths in the anterior com- missure. Another advantage of Schroetter's forceps is that, being made of soft metal, the curve can be altered so as to make the instru- ment suitable for growths in any part of the larynx. Whatever forceps be used, the blades should be well sharpened, so that the growth is cut off and not torn away. The so-called " safety forceps" of Dundas Grant has been highly spoken of for growths on the edges of the cords, and I know of no objection to this instrument beyond its name. " Safety" must lie in the trained hand and eye of the operator, and not in the instrument he employs. Though caustics are no longer employed for the destruction of growths, the galvano-cautery has still its advocates. In the case of angiomata, or other highly vascular tumours where bleeding is feared, it may be a serviceable instrument, but there is always a risk of doing permanent injury to the voice when it is used on a vocal cord. The multiple papillomata of young children present special difficulties in the way of treat- ment. That thyrotomy would prove the best method of dealing with many of them there is little doubt, if we knew how to prevent recur- rence. Till we can do this I think that, on the whole, Semon's advice is the best: to perform a tracheotomy as soon as it becomes necessary, and then to wait till the child is old enough to permit of intralaryngeal treatment. In a very small proportion of cases the growths may disappear spontaneously after the larynx has been put at rest by the tracheotomy. This plan of waiting, however, is not always so suc- cessful as one could wish, and more than once I have advised thyrotomy, as the health of the child has suffered while wearing a cannula, or frequent attacks of bronchitis or broncho-pneu- monia have become a source of danger. Two methods of operating which have been intro- duced in recent years promise to be of value in these difficult cases. One is the method of Scanes Spicer for operating under chloroform anaesthesia, combined with the local application of cocaine to arrest the secretions of the larynx and pharynx ; the other is the direct method of Kirstein. Both have been successfully adopted in a few cases, and will no doubt at times enable us to avoid a tracheotomy. Apart from cases of multiple papillomata in children, external operation will scarcely ever be necessary in the treatment of benign growths. The rule is that " an external operation in a case of a benign growth of the larynx is only indicated when an experienced laryngologist has failed to remove the neoplasm per vias 7iaturales." The number of cases coming under this category will be exceedingly small, and is practically confined to sessile subglottic growths of great rarity. Sub-hyoid laryngotomy has been employed in a few cases for the removal of large growths situated at the entrance to the larynx. In the case of simple growths this operation is never called for, as removal through the mouth is always possible, either with or without a pre- liminary tracheotomy. To prevent the recurrence of papillomata many applications have been tried. Nitrate of silver, chromic acid, the electric and thermo- cautery, have all proved unavailing. Pure lactic acid, as recommended by Schmidt, has been of most value in my experience. Malignant Disease of Larynx Definition and Introductory Remarks . 351 Etiology ...... 352 Pathology ...... 353 Symptoms ...... 353 Diagnosis ...... 355 From Benign Tumours 355 Chronic Laryngitis . 357 Syphilis . . . . 357 Tuberculosis . . . . 358 Lupus . . . . . 358 Pachydermia Laryngis 359 Laryngeal Paralysis 359 Prognosis ...... 359 Treatment ...... 360 Definition and Introductory Remarks.—The term malignant disease of the larynx comprises the two affections known otherwise as carcinoma and sarcoma of the larynx. Both are rare, sarcoma even much more so than carcinoma. According to Gurlt's large statistics, laryngeal cancer amounts to 0"5 per cent of cancer in general, and the proportion of sarcoma to carcinoma is as 1 to 11-12. In spite of the