152 KNEE-JOINT, INJURIES OF knee-joint is bent and the tibia fixed, as when playing a stroke at golf. Less frequently, vio- lent rotation of the tibia with the femur fixed may result in displacement of a cartilage. The cartilages move with the tibia in flexion and extension. In rotation the tibia rotates beneath the cartilages, one or other being fixed. During external rotation the external cartilage is fixed, and the internal is apt to slip through the gradually increasing gap that is formed between the tibia and the internal condyle of the femur. The reverse occurs during internal rotation ; but the external cartilage being smaller, rounder, and more mobile than the internal, is less frequently nipped between the bones when it slides into the gap. This injury rarely occurs in a perfectly normal joint, being commonest among those whose knee-joints are liable to have great strains thrown suddenly upon them, such as football players. Symptoms and Diax/nosis.—After a twist of the leg there is sudden and intense pain in the knee, often causing the patient to fall, with the joint fixed in the flexed position. The knee rapidly becomes swollen, and on movement being attempted the joint locks on extension, but can be flexed quite freely. On extension the pain is increased, and the patient may feel that something has become "jammed" in the knee. There is pain on pressure over the joint line, and a projection is often felt which may be slightly movable. In old-standing cases a clicking may be felt on flexing and extending the joint. If the detached end of the cartilage remains in the centre of the joint a depression may be felt in the position of the cartilage, but the diagnosis of this variety from a loose body presents considerable difficvilty, especially if there be much eff'usion. Treatment. — In recent cases the cartilage should be replaced under an antesthetic, if necessary. The procedure consists in flexing the knee completely, and then rotating the leg inwards or outwards according as the internal or external cartilage respectively be displaced. While rotation is maintained, suddenly extend the leg ; at the same time press the projecting edge of the cartilage into the joint. After reduction, rest on a splint and elastic pressure are necessary. If the patient will permit, a plaster-of-Paris case should now be applied, and the limb used as little as possible for several weeks. This method, which gives the best chance of cure short of operation, is rarely tolerated, and one has then to resort to a knee- cap to control the movements of the knee as much as possible while allowing the patient to go about. He should be warned to avoid any rotating movement of the limb, walking with his toes in if the internal cartilage has been affected, and out if the external. The knee-cap should be worn for three or four months. Recurrence is frequent from slight twists, and subsequently the cartilage is apt to slip out on the slightest provocation, thus interfering with an active life. These are the cases for operative interference. An apparatus such as Ernst's may be tried, but it is often very irk- some and not always efficient. The operative procedure may consist in either suture or removal of the cartilage. The results of both are about equal, though probably removal is the better, because a cartilage which has been sutured may get loose again. Either operation may be performed through an incision over the joint line on one or other side, accord- ing to the cartilage affected. The incision ex- tends between the ligamentum patellae and the internal lateral ligament for the internal carti- lage, and between the ligamentum and biceps tendon for the external. The line of this incision in the capsule should be above the position of the cartilage. The detached portion of cartilage, which may be doubled over, is either placed in position and stitched to the fibrous capsule with catgut, or removed. It is advisable to explore joint for a possible loose body at the same time. The incision should be completely closed in layers. After-treatment consists in controlling the joint for five or six weeks, at first in bed with a posterior splint. AVTien the wound has healed, use plaster-of- Paris or a moulded poroplastic splint. At the end of four weeks, movements should be com- menced, and the patient gradually allowed to walk with a bandage on the knee. Longer confinement is necessary after suture than after removal. Detachment of part of articular cartilage from the femur is an injury that may occur as the result of very slight violence. During flexion of the knee it is possible to produce a certain amount of internal and external rotation, and also some abduction and adduction, the knee- joint not being a simple hinge. If, when the knee is bent, the bones are pressed together with a lateral twisting, a portion of cartilage with spongy bone attached may be forced off the femur. This portion may become com- pletely loosened, and form a foreign body in the joint, or may remain hanging as a loose body; in either case it should be removed. Rupture of posterior crucial ligament may occur as the result of a violent blow on the anterior surface of the head of the tibia. The injury is followed by synovitis and subsequent weakness of the knee. On examination the head of the tibia can be slightly displaced backward into the popliteal space, when the knee is bent at right angles and the foot steady on the ground. For such a condition, supporting appar- atus should be worn for some months. Kneippism. See Cure {Kneipp Water Ctire).