196 LABOUK, MANAGEMENT OF dilatation of the perineum jefore the descent of the foetal head. It is done by several times hooking a finger over the perineum during a pain, and drawing it back towards the sacrum. If a perineal tear seems inevitable, the perineum may be slit laterally; this small operation is called episiotomy; it is doubtful if it is of much service. It is claimed for the operation that it prevents deep lacerations through the sphincter ani, and that by reason of the arrangement of the muscular fibres the wounds heal spon- taneously. However, as it is never certain that a laceration is going to occur—and if it does take place, even through the sphincter ani, the laceration heals well if stitched up at once —the special advantage of the operation is not very clear. As soon as the head is born, pass the finger round the child's neck to see if there are any coils of cord round it. If one or more coils are found, a little more cord may be pulled down and the loop passed over the child's head. If this is impossible owing to the cord being too tight, the cord must be divided and tied. The dangers of allowing the child to be born with the cord round its neck are: (1) the child may be strangled by the cord ; (2) the placenta may be detached by the tension on the cord; and (3) the delivery of the shoulders is delayed. While the cord is being set free, the nurse should carefully wipe the child's eyes to remove any discharge present. So as ta give more room under the symphysis the right knee may now be held up by the nurse, or a rolled-up pillow may be placed between the thighs. If the cord is pulsating, the delivery of the child can be left to nature. As the shoulders pass out through the perineum they must be watched to prevent a laceration, and the operator should keep the left hand carefully on the abdomen. If, then, there are any signs of the cord not pulsating, the child must be delivered at once. The best way is to press on the fundus, and as the shoulders come down, in order to assist the posterior shoulder getting over the perineum, lift the child up towards the mother's abdomen, then depress the child slightly to bring the anterior shoulder out from under the symphysis. After this the rest of the body readily follows, as the larger portion has come first. Management of Third Stage This stage, lasting from the delivery of the child until the birth of the placenta, should receive most carefvd attention in every detail, as the health of the patient during the puer- perium and afterwards depends mainly on its successful management. The indication for treatment is to 2^romote contraction of the ute7'us. From the moment of the birth of the child the uterus must be carefully looked after, a light steady pressure being maintained by the attendant keeping the fundus of the uterus in the hollow of the left hand. This pressure must be continued for a short time after the birth of the placenta and membranes. If the child requires any special attention from the doctor, the nurse must maintain the pressure on the uterus. Care of the Child.—The infant normally cries out as soon as it is born, but if not, the mouth and fauces should be carefully freed from all mucus, and some slight stimulation applied. A few smart slaps with the hands or a dash of cold water are usually sufficient. If, however, the child is apparently not going to begin breathing, the methods of artificial respira- tion to be used in cases of asphyxia neonatorum must be adopted (see article "Asphyxia," vol. i.). If the chloroform administration has lasted for a long period, there is a greater probability of the child requiring more attention in this direction. The question of late or immediate ligature of the umbilical cord was at one time the sub- ject of much discussion, but now it is generally considered that the cord should not be tied until it has ceased to pulsate. Experimental research shows that with late ligature of the cord the child gains a considerable amount of blood. At the first inspiration the opening up of the pulmonary circulation creates a negative pressure in the great vessels near the heart, and thus the blood is sucked in from the placenta ; the uterine retraction and contraction assists in compression of the placenta. By these means the child receives about three ounces of blood (equivalent to three pints in the adult). The children in whom the late ligation of the cord is adopted are stronger and healthier than those whose cords are ligatured at the moment of birth. There is insuflBcient evidence in favour of the view advanced by a few writers that late tying of the cord is more frequently followed by jaundice. Method of Tying.—The cord should be tied when it has ceased to pulsate. The usual plan is to tie it in two places; first, about 2 inches from the umbilicus, the second an inch or so nearer the placenta. This site for the first ligature allows ample room for retying should the ligature slip. The cord is divided between the ligatures; the second ligature is not neces- sary if we wait until the pulsation in the cord has ceased. If there is a second child in the uterus this second ligature is advisable, as pos- sibly the vessels of the two placentae com- municate. After the division of the cord, the child is wrapped in some flannel material and taken away by the nurse. The phenomena of labour during the third stage are the occurrence of intermittent contrac- tion with permanent retraction of the muscular fibres. This causes the placenta to be expelled