LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 502 dealt with as in a case of tropical abscess (see p. 511). C. Subhepatic Abscess. — A few cases nave been recorded by the writer and others of pus forming between the under surface of the liver and the peritoneum, and pointing in the epi- gastrium. The liver tissue is exposed but not involved, and the pus seems to be caused by a lymphangitis in the subhepatic region. Tropical Abscess of the Liver Nomenclature ..... 502 Varieties of Hepatic Abscess . . 502 Intrahepatic Tropical Abscess . . 502 Etiology 502 Clinical History .... 505 Local Sigjis and Symptoms . . 505 Effect 071 other Viscera . . .506 Constitutional Symptoms . . .507 Diagnosis ..... 508 Prognosis . . . . .509 Mortality 510 Treatment . . . . .510 Nomenclature.—The term tropical abscess may be, and probably is, a misnomer. It can in no sense be defined as a specific ailment; but even if there is such a disease as a specific abscess of the liver, dependent upon tropical environment, it is so obscured by hepatic abscess due to other causes that the exact limitations are impossible to determine. At the present time a " tropical abscess " is considered to be (1) a single collection of pus on the liver, (2) met with in warm climates, and (3) associated with, or caused by, dysentery. This description is in no sense a definition, for every one of the three points mentioned may be and has been contested, and in many instances refuted. How- ever, it is a collection of pus answering to this description which serves as the basis for dis- cussion under the heading Tropical Hepatic Abscess. Varieties of (Tropical) Hepatic Abscess.— The writer has from time to time sought to diiferentiate between collections of pus met with in and around the liver, and to bestow definite names to the abscesses according to their posi- tion, and to some extent also upon their cause and pathology. A classification into suprahepatic, intra- hepatic, and infra- (or sub-) hepatic abscesses is in accordance with anatomical fact; but the writer has insisted that the first two of the group, and it may be all, arise from different causes. Intrahepatic Tropical Abscess. — It may seem unnecessary to designate the ordinary form of liver abscess by a qualification such as " intra," and many may dismiss the term with the criticism that an abscess of an organ must be within that organ, and therefore the term " intra" is supererogatory. This is an un- answerable argument; but although theoretic- ally correct, it is far from being practically so, for abscesses are termed hepatic which, whilst occupying the dome of the liver, involve the liver, if at all, only to a slight extent. The latter are to be subsequently described under the heading suprahepatic, and their pathology separately dealt with. Etiology.—It is impossible to make a definite statement as to the cause of a tropical abscess within the liver substance; but there is suffi- cient clinical and pathological evidence to hand to justify dysentery being considered a potent and all-important factor in the etiology. Dysentery as a cause of liver abscess has the weight of long experience, and the investigations of modern pathology as testimony. It is the endeavour of many observers to attribute all cases of tropical abscess to infection from a dysenteric ulcer; whilst, on the other hand, dysentery as a factor in the etiology of tropical abscess is scarcely recognised by others. This divergence in opinion is to be attributed to the fact that every collection of pus in the hepatic area is usually termed a hepatic abscess without reference as to whether it be of the nature of a suprahepatic or an intrahepatic abscess. The fault lies in the nomenclature; for, by use of a common term for all hepatic purulent collections, two or more conditions diff"ering in their course and pathology are grouped together unjustifiably. A marked feature in differentia- tion, it may be stated with confidence, is the part played by dysentery in the etiology. In suprahepatic abscess dysentery plays, per- haps, no part as an antecedent, and, except as an occasional concomitant, is seldom met with in the history of the case. Intrahepatic abscesses are possibly always subsequent to dysenteric ulceration of the intestine. Intrahepatic abscess is the result, according to this statement, of infection, pygemic in nature, from the surface of the eroded and ulcerated bowel. The Nature of the Infection.—When inflam- matory lesions ending in suppuration develop anywhere in the gathering area of the portal vein, there is a possibility of purulent collections appearing in the liver. Multiple abscesses from this cause, reasoning a priori, would seem the inevitable result, and clinical experience bears out the theoretical suggestion. Were this the result of dysenteric lesions the matter would be simple enough ; but it is believed the simple (tropical) abscess is the variety associated with dysenteric changes. Other ulcerations, however, of the bowel, such as those met with in typhoid fever, seldom give rise to suppuration within the liver; and ulcerative changes in the stomach, appendicitis, carcinoma of the bowel, etc., when they infect the liver, do so at a number of foci; and it is considered the peculiarity of the dysen- teric gut to give rise to a single abscess. How