KIDNEY 94 a movable as in a floating kidney, and the symptoms do not differ. Kiister believes that 2-5 per cent of the population, irrespective of sex or age, have movable kidneys; and Albarran states that in 10 to 12 per cent of women there is a slight degree of renal mobility. (1) The Surroundings. — The kidney may move inside its fatty capsule, or the capsule may be loose and wander with the kidney (Morris). The amount of fat surrounding a movable kidney is not necessarily diminished even when the rest of the body is emaciated (Rosenstein). (2) The Range of Movement.—This may be very slight or extensive, and is clinically described in three degrees (Glcjuard). First Degree.—The kidney descends partly below the ribs on deep respiration, but its upper pole remains hidden. These slighter cases form the majority of movable kidneys (Morris). Second Degree.—The kidney descends entirely below the ribs, and the fingers may be pushed above it. Third Degree.—The kidney wanders over an extensive area of the abdomen. It is anchored by its pedicle of vessels, but may swing as low as the iliac fossa or across the median line of the body. Sometimes a tilting movement takes place, by which the convex border turns forwards. The movement may be in the "plane of the loins," and has been termed "cinder-sifting," but this movement cannot be detected by palpation (Morris). The mal-placed kidney may form adhesions in some new position and there become fixed. (3) The State of the Kidney.—Often it is quite normal. A slight degree of pelvis dilatation is frequent, even hydronephrotic changes may take place from kinking of the ureter. Infection of the dilated or congested kidney may pro- duce pyonephrosis or pyelonephritis. Calculus may complicate a movable kidney, but it is uncommon. (4) The Conditio7i of other Abdominal Organs. —Frequently there is no abnormality, some- times a general enteroptosis is present (Glenard). Movable liver occurs pretty frequently with movable kidney, more rarely the spleen is mobile. (5) Some Accidents vihich may occur.—Torsion of the renal pedicle, causing acute symptoms of renal pain, collapse, vomiting, and even anuria, may occur and be repeated. This usually happens after some exertion, and only occurs wlicn the degree of mobility is very pronounced. Intermittent hydronephrosis is very frequent. The symptoms resemble those of strangulation, but in addition there is the presence of a renal tumour which disappears with the relief of the symptoms, and is followed by a marked temporary polyuria. Sometimes the hydronephrosis is permanent. Intermittent jaundice is said to occasionally complicate movable kidney on the right side, probably from pressure or dragging on the bile duct. This often passes off suddenly and after a few days reappears (Litten). Etiology. ■— The kidney is normally more movable in women than in men, and the preponderance of the former over the latter in movable kidney is striking—six or eight times more frequent in females (RoUet). The right side is much more often affected than the left (9 to 10 per cent, Fiirbringer); though both sides are sometimes affected (7*2 per cent). Most cases occur between the ages of twenty and forty, but it also occurs in children. An hereditarj^ tendency has been traced in some cases. The most frequent exciting causes are injury, and those changes which are induced by weak, pendulous abdominal walls, the result of repeated pregnancies, or distension by ascitic fluid or abdominal tumours. Rapid emaciation, enlargement of the kidney, and tight-lacing are said to be factors in the etiology. Symptomatology.—Pain.—The most constant and usually the most striking indication of wandering kidney is pain (96 per cent). It will therefore be considered somewhat in detail. The suffering caused by a movable kidney shows great variation in its intensity and character. Every kidney which can be detected by palpa- tion and classed as movable does not cause pain; many, indeed, are symptomless, and this especially applies to the left side; but in the majority of instances pain is present in some degree. Often it is the only prominent symptom the patient complains of (43-3 per cent), at other times it is accompanied by general con- ditions of neurasthenia, or hysteria, or by disturbance of digestion; in other cases the genito-urinary system bears the brunt of the disorders (31 per cent). In some cases pain amounts only to a dull, heavy aching in the loin, or a sense of dragging, which is continually present; in others there is occasional pain, often severe and situated in the lumbar region. Sometimes it is described as sharp, and may radiate to the abdomen and even to the thigh. Exercise has a marked effect in starting and increasing the pain, wliile rest often relieves it. In women, and they form the majority of patients, the menstrual periods are attended by more severe exacerbations of the pain, necessi- tating rest in bed. In another class the pain is paroxysmal in character and agonising in severity, and shows the same radiation as renal colic. Some strain or extra fatigue often starts these attacks, and after a variable duration they suddenly cease. Temporary disappearance of the symptoms of