35 IODOFORM Nosophen, Isoform, and Trwumatol also come under this group, but it cannot be said that any particular advantage attaches to any of them. Iodoform in.—A substitute for iodoform, having the formula C2HgN2l2 ; when acted upon by ethyl iodide iodoformal is produced. Iodoform ism. — Poisoning with iodo- form. See Iodoform ; Toxicology {Non-metallic Elements). lodol.—lodol or iodopyrrol (C^l^HN) is a non-official iodoform-like substance (containing 90 per cent, of iodine), often used in place of iodoform; pyroll (C^Il5N) is got from the dis- tillation of bones, and iodol is obtained from it. lodophilia,.—The iodine or iodophilous reaction is a peculiar susceptibility of the protoplasm of leucocytes (especially the poly- morphonuclear) to the action of iodine applied to the dried film, which stains it a variable shade of brown instead of a pale lemon-yellow tint; it is met with in toxtemias, both bacterial {e.g. sepsis) and non-bacterial {e.g. diabetes mellitus) in character. See Glycogen Reaction. lodothyrin.—A substance with a marked power of combining with iodine, found in the thyroid gland and probably forming the active constituent of its internal secretion. See Physiology, Internal Secretions {Thyroid Gland). Ionic Action.—"When electrolytes (salts, bases, and acids) are brought into solution it is believed that their molecules are broken up into two parts {ions); these ions are regarded as intermediate bodies between atoms and molecules, and are charged with negative elec- tricity {kations) or with positive {anions); they are supposed to have a powerful influence on certain physiological and pathological pheno- mena {e.g. osmosis, coagulation of the blood, agglutination of bacteria, etc.), and on the action of various drugs. loth ion (or Jothion).—lothion or di-iodo-hydroxypropane (CgHjIgOHg) is a pre- paration which can be used externally in place of the tincture and the ointment of iodine. lpeca,CUa.nha.. — Ipecacuanhse Radix, the dried root of Psychotria ipecacuanha, im- ported from Brazil. It contains an uncrystal- lisable alkaloid Emetine, and Ipecacuanhic acid. Dose—\-2 grs. (expectorant); 15-30 grs. (emetic). Preparations—1. Acetum Ipecacu- anhse. Strength, "l per cent of alkaloids. Dose—10-30 m. 2. Extractum Ipecacuanhse Liquidum. Strength, 2-2-25 per cent of alkaloids. Dose—1-2 m. (expectorant); 15-20 m. (emetic). 3. Pilula Ipecacuanhje cum Scilla. Dose—4-8 grs. 4. Pulvis Ipecacuanhse Com- positus. Dover's powder. Dose—5-15 grs. 5. Trochiscus Ipecacuanhse. \ gr. in each. 6. Trochiscus Morphinte et Ipecacuanhse. T2 S'^- ipecacuanha and ^ gr. morphine hydro- chloride in each. 7. Vinum Ipecacuanhse. Strength, "1 per cent of alkaloids. Dose— 10-30 m. (expectorant); 4-6 3 (emetic). Externally, ipecacuanha has been recommended as a dressing for anthrax, the drug being taken by the mouth at the same time. A paste made from the powdered root is said to relieve the pain caused by bee-stings. Internally, it is a valuable emetic, especially in children when the stomach is overloaded with food, or where the expectoration from bronchitis has been swallowed in large quantities. In poisoning it is hardly rapid enough in action ; it acts on the medulla after absorption, and sulphate of zinc or mustard, which stimulate the stomach directly, are to be preferred. In small doses it is employed as a stomachic to check obstinate vomiting, especially the vomiting of pregnancy. It is widely used as a depressing expectorant, particularly in the early stages of an attack of bronchitis. It is a frequent ingredient of cough mixtures and is indicated where the secretion is dry and scanty. In robust children suffering from laryngitis or bronchitis full emetic doses will often produce marvellous results, the act of vomiting clearing out the obstructed air-passages. Dover's powder is a very efficient remedy in the early stages of a feverish cold. Ipecacuanha is a useful addition to cholagogue pills for the treatment of bilious dyspepsia: it stimulates the secretion of bile. It is regarded as a specific for dysentery of the true acute type. A large dose (30-60 grs.) of the powdered root is to be given on an empty stomach, and should be preceded by a dose of laudanum so as to prevent vomiting. De- emetised ipecacuanha has also been employed for this purpose, but its value is questionable. The inhalation of a spray of ipecacuanha wine, diluted with equal parts of water and alcohol, has been recommended for asthma and chronic bronchitis. Ipomcea. See Jalap. Irida.lg'icl.—Pain in the iris (due to synechise). Iridectomy.—Excision of a portion of the iris in order to form an artificial pupil. See Cataract {Treatment, Iridectomy) ; Glaucoma {Operative Treatment, Iridectomy) ; Iris and Ciliary Body {Operations on Iris, Iridectomy); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Nystagynus); Sclerotic, Diseases of {Sclerotitis, Treatment). Irideremia.. — Absence of the iris, antenatal, acquired, or the result of operation ; aniridia. See Iris and Ciliary Body {Con- genital Abnormalities). I rid in.—A dark brown powder obtained from the root of the blue flag, Iris versicolor.