LARYNX, ACUTE AND CHRONIC INFLAMMATIONS 338 on the other hand, foreign bodies which at first are lodged in the lower air-passages may become impacted afterwards in the larynx. The occur- rence of foreign bodies in the upper food-passages has also to be frequently considered at the same time. References to these regions will therefore complete any omissions in the present section. Etiology.—Large foreign bodies generally consist of imperfectly masticated boluses of food which become fixed in the laryngo-pharynx. Sometimes they consist of some substance— food or other material—swallowed for a wager. Smaller bodies may be particles of food slipping unexpectedly out of the mouth, swallowed hastily, or unexpectedly met with, as when portions of bone are drunk with soup. Vomited matter sometimes finds its way into the larynx, and this is most likely to occur during or after general anaesthesia. Food is also apt to " go the wrong way" when the sensation of the pharynx and larynx is blunted, as in alcoholic intoxication, in the insane, and in certain neu- roses of these regions. In diphtheritic paralysis such articles of diet as tea, milk, and bread and butter have been inspired into the larynx.^ The same accident is apt to occur with epileptics, and from accidents, as when a man is thrown from horseback when smoking a pipe. The blood effused in hsemoptysis may act as a foreign body, especially if the patient faints and is placed on his back instead of on his side.^ Foreign bodies are sometimes pushed through the nose and drop into the larynx. The accident may occur in surgical procedures, as when adenoid growths are removed in such a manner as to allow of their dropping into it. The use of throat brushes and instruments, with easily detachable extremities, is also fraught with this danger. One of the most usual methods by which a foreign body enters the larynx is the following :— Some substance is introduced temporarily into the mouth, and, owing to the patient's attention being attracted elsewhere, is partly forgotten. Some unexpected cause initiates the deep in- spiration which precedes a start, cry, laugh, or sneeze, and the foreign substance is drawn directly into the larynx. The list of substances, in addition to articles of food, which may be met with, is too varied to attempt to make it complete ; but the follow- ing have been found in the larynx—coins, pins, needles, buttons, various seeds (beans, peas, corn), toys, pieces of wood, portions of pipe- stalks and cigar-holders, and leeches. Bronchial glands have ulcerated through into the trachea, and been coughed up into the larynx. When the substance is large it generally obstructs the aditus ad laryngem. Smaller bodies may rest on the ventricular bands, or 1 Hale White, Trans. Clin. Soc, Feb. 23, 1894. - Bowles, Brit. Med. Jour., July 23, 189S. get wedged between the vocal cords, sometimes with one edge in a ventricle of Morgagni. On deep inspiration, or injudicious attempts at removal, they may pass downwards into the trachea. Symptoms.—When a large bolus of food or other foreign body completely blocks the laryngo-pharynx, death by asphyxia rapidly occurs unless relief is obtained. A barman was in the habit of showing how he could place a billiard ball in his mouth and close his lips over it. While performing the trick he was, of course, quite aphonic. On one occasion the billiard ball slipped into the lower pharynx, and his frantic signs for relief were regarded by the amused onlookers as part of his jest. He died, and the ball was found entirely blocking the upper larynx. When the substance is small enough to enter the larynx, it produces dyspnoea and inspiratory stridor in proportion to its size and its situation over the glottis. If it gets between the cords it is apt to become grasped spasmodically, pro- ducing great anxiety. The trauma produced may lead to acute oidematous laryngitis {q.v.). The cough induced is frequently extremely insistent, and will sometimes continue for some time after the foreign body is expelled. Examination.—In all cases when the symp- toms are not very urgent, the throat should be carefully examined before making any attempt at removal. A laryngeal inspection can generally be obtained by the use of cocaine and the infusion of a little confidence into the patient. The size, nature, and position of the body can thus be exactly observed. Sometimes, owing either to the thick strings of mucus which may extend from one side of the throat to the other, or to the translucent character of the foreign body (as fish-bones or glass beads), it remains invisible. In such cases the careful use of a probe will often assist in the examina- tion, and it is only when these efforts at locating it have proved fruitless that it is justifiable to attempt to use the forefinger to detect the body. This latter pi'oceeding, however, is fre- quently required in young children, in whom a laryngoscopic examination is not always possible. If the presence of the foreign body in the upper air or food passages still remains doubt- ful, the power of swallowing should be tested and the chest carefully examined. In many cases, particularly where metallic substances have been inspired into the larynx, the use of the Rontgen rays has proved of great service both in settling the presence of a foreign body and in determining its exact position. When, in spite of careful examination, the situation of the foreign body caimot be diagnosed, but the suspicious symptoms still suggest its presence, the patient should be kept under observation, when, either by the