LIVER, DISEASES OF 472 the liver of a patient with tubercle elsewhere, their true nature might be suspected. If they softened down and presented as a fluctuating swelling, the signs would be indistinguishable from those of an ordinary abscess. Syphilis of the Liver Acquired Syphilis ..... 472 Hereditary Syphilis .... 475 Acquired Syphilis Secondary Manifestations.—In the second- ary stage of acquired syphilis jaundice is occasionally seen at the same time as the roseola; it appears to be due to the syphilitic infection, for it is amenable to mercurial treat- ment, and if untreated, does not pass off in the way that an accidental or intercurrent catarrhal jaundice would do. It is benign, and must be distinguished from the jaundice of icterus gravis, which sometimes supervenes in the secondary stage of syphilis. As to the cause of this jaundice there is considerable doubt; it has been variously suggested that it is due to an eruption on the mucous membrane of the bile ducts corresponding to that of the skin, to enlarged glands in the portal fissure, or to a generalised toxic disturbance of the liver, which may or may not lead to the generalised inter- cellular cirrhosis characteristic of the congenital form of the disease. It is generally believed that diffuse peri- cellular cirrhosis is peculiar to congenital syphilis, and that it does not occur in the acquired disease. This is probably too absolute a statement, and its accuracy may well be questioned. It is true that it is very seldom seen, partly because the liver is less often affected in acquired syphilis than in the hereditary disease, and partly because oppor- tunities for examining the liver during the secondary period only occur in rare and accidental instances. A diffuse pericellular cirrhosis is certainly present in some instances of acquired syphilis, even without any gum- matous change, and is constantly seen around gummata that are not very old. To sum up, in the secondary stage the liver may be so affected as to give rise to jaundice. This is rare ; the jaundice is usually benign, but it may be due to acute degenerative changes supervening in the cells of a liver already affected, and its resistance impaired, by the baneful influence of the syphilitic toxin. Further, it is probable that a diffuse pericellular cirrhosis like that seen in congenital syphilis does occur; but apart from the possibility that it may in part be responsible for icterus, no clinical symptoms can be correlated with it. The Tertiary Manifestations of Syphilis IN the Liver. — 1. Lardaceo^is Disease.—-Since the advent of antiseptic surgery, prolonged suppuration has become so comparatively infrequent that syphilis is now responsible for a much larger proportion of the cases of lardaceous disease. The subject is considered elsewhere (vide " Lardaceous Degeneration "). Here it may, however, be pointed out that lardaceous disease may coexist with gummata and cicatrices in the liver, and may thus lead to increase in size of the organ. Occasionally the lardaceous change is limited to an area round a gumma, thus suggesting its depend- ence on a toxin whose action is concentrated in and near the gumma. Gummata and Cicatrices.—The liver is more often affected by these lesions than any other abdominal viscus. Their characters are so well known that there is rather a tendency to regard them as commoner than they actually are. Dr. J. L. Allen at my suggestion critically examined the post-mortem records of St. George's Hospital for forty-two years (1857-1898), during which period 11,629 autopsies were performed; he found 37 cases of undoubted gummata, and 27 additional cases in which cicatrices were present. There is, therefore, a contrast between the fre- quency of hepatic lesions in hereditary and its incidence in acquired syphilis. Disposing Conditions.—Men are more often affected than women. Thus in a collection of 83 cases, 60 wei'e males, and 23 females (Allen). It has been thought that any factor such as traumatism, alcoholism, malaria, or a past at- tack of jaiuidice, that would diminish the vital resistance of the liver, would render the organ more prone to gummatous disease. The greater frequency of gummata on the anterior surface of the liver, which is more ex- posed to blows, the fact that gummata are not infrequently found close to the falciform liga- ment, where strain from falls must tell, and the increased incidence in the male sex, though this may be merely due to their being more often syphilitic, are points in favour of traumatism playing a part in the localisation of tertiary syphilitic lesions in the liver. It is reasonable to believe that alcohol being a protoplasmic poison, syphilitic lesions would be commoner in the livers of the drunken than in temperate persons suffering from syphilis. It is curious, however, to note how seldom cirrhosis and gummata are found in the same liver. Morbid Anatomy.—In its earliest stage the future gumma is a mass of syphilitic granulation tissue or a syphiloma; it is of a pink-grey colour, and does not show any central necrosis. As a result of impaired blood-supply depending on syphilitic endarteritis of the vessels, and prob- ably also from an increase in the amount of the syphilitic toxin, the cells in the centre of the syphiloma die and undergo caseation. The term gumma or gummy tumour is now ap- plicable, the caseous contents when softened having some resemblance to gum. In the