LABOUR, POST-PARTUM HEMORRHAGE 257 Prognosis.—The prognosis of external trau- matic hsemorrhage is always good unless the case is either neglected or improperly treated. It is especially bad in cases of low insertion of the placenta, owing to the proximity of the uterine sinuses to the laceration. 2. Internal Traumatic Hemorrhage. — Internal traumatic htemorrhage is the term applied to traumatic hsemorrhage in which the blood instead of escaping externally flows into the perivaginal or perivulvar tissues. If this occurs, a hsematoma forms of varying size, and from this the condition has been given the name of hoematoma vel thronibns vagincB et vulvae. It is said to be one of the rarest accidents in mid- wifery. Frequency.—Internal traumatic hsemorrhage sufficient in amount to require treatment is a very rare occurrence. Statistics of its relative frequency are difficult to obtain. Winckel estimates its frequency at 1 in 1000, Hugen- berger at 11 in 14,000. At the Rotunda Hospital there were 6 cases in 13,549 deliveries. JStiology.—The direct cause of the condition is the rupture of a vein in the tissue beneath the lowest part of the vaginal wall, more rarely beneath the vulvar mucous membrane (Winckel). The cause of the rupture is to be sometimes found in great stretching of the vaginal walls, especially when very rapidly accomplished; in the existence of vulvo-vaginal varices; or as the result of subsequent sloughing of the coats of a blood-vessel the result of long-continued pressure. However, in the majority of cases of this condition no assignable cause can be found. In such cases the rupture of the vessel may have been due to a pre-existing abnormal thinness of its coats, or to the gliding of the vaginal wall as it is drawn upwards during labour over the deeper structures—a gliding which may be associated with laceration of a vessel (Perret). A strong predisposing element to rupture, which is present in all labours, is the obstruction to the venous return which occurs during the descent of the head, and which tends to produce thinning of the walls of the veins by over-distension. Pathological Anatoviy.—These haemorrhages may occur either below or above the pelvic diaphragm, and consequently can be divided into infrafascial and suprafascial. Infrafascial hsematomata usually form, as has been said, at one or other side of the lower portion of the vaginal canal. If they form externally they are most frequently situated in the labia majora, more rarely in the labia minora, or in the re- mains of the hymen or perinaeum. Usually a well-defined tumour results, varying in size from that of a hen's egg to that of a fo3tal head. In some cases the haemorrhage may extend in all directions, surround the whole vulva and vagina, and extend downwards upon the thighs. Some- times, as the result of perforation of the pelvic VOL. v fascia from sloughing, such hsemorrhage may extend upwards, as in suprafascial htemato- mata. Primary suprafascial hsematomata are very rare. If a vessel ruptures in this region blood may collect round the upper part of the vagina, and then extend upwards in all direc- tions beneath the peritoneum, reaching the kidneys behind, the level of the umbilicus in front, and the iliac crests laterally. Symptoms.—A hsematoma may form during delivery; but, as will readily be understood, although the vessel may be torn prior to the expulsion of the child, the pressure of the head will most usually prevent the escape of blood until after that event. Whether the child has been expelled or not, the first symptom of the condition is intense pain, associated with swelling in the neighbourhood of the ruptured vessel. In a short time a small tumour forms, elastic to the touch and of a blue colour, and gradually increases in size. If the haemorrhage continues and the case is not treated, this tumour may rupture and the bleeding become external. At the same time, the patient becomes collapsed and anaemic in proportion to the amount of blood lost. Terminations. — Internal traumatic haemor- rhage, if allowed to remain untreated, may terminate in one of the following ways:— (1) The tumour may rupture, and free ex- ternal haemorrhage result which may or may not prove fatal. (2) The haemorrhage may extend intersti- tially—upwards towards the abdomen, or down- wards towards the perineum—according as the ruptured vessel is above or below the pelvic fascia. The patient may thus bleed to death into her subcutaneous tissue. (3) The tumour, if small, may be absorbed aseptically. (4) Suppuration or decomposition of the contents of the tumour may occur. Treatment. — If the condition is recognised before the birth of the child, the latter should be delivered immediately. If the amount of effused blood is still small, the forceps can be applied in the ordinary manner. If, however, the size of the tumour is so great as to obstruct delivery, its walls must be incised, its contents turned out, a piece of iodoform gauze placed over the opening, and the child delivered as quickly as possible. If the tumour has not been incised, and it increases slowly in size after delivery, the effects of firm pressure upon it may be tried; if this fails, or if the increase in size has been very rapid, it will be necessary to incise its wall and turn out the contents. In any case in which incision is practised, and the cavity is of large size, the latter should be douched out and then firmly plugged with iodoform gauze. This plugging is changed every day until the cavity is obliterated. If the latter was found to be of small size on opening it, deep sutures 17