LIVER, DISEASES OF 455 the passive congestion of the spleen need, there- fore, not be so great as in cirrhosis where the obstruction is in the portal circulation. On the other hand, passive congestion plays some part in the splenic enlargement, for hsemorrhages may lead to considerable diminu- tion in the size of the organ in cirrhosis, and thrombosis of the splenic vein may be followed by very great splenic enlargement. No doubt the important factor in the splenic enlargement in cirrhosis is toxic rather than purely mechanical. The poisons reaching the organ by the splenic artery give rise to an inflammatory swelling; but when there is passive congestion superadded the enlargement will be accentuated. A certain amount of chronic inflammation of the capsule, or perisplenitis, is common ; it may be localised in the form of corneal or lamellar fibromata, or generalised as in chronic peri- tonitis. Adhesions to the diaphragm are not uncommon. In 131 cases of cirrhosis analysed by Yeld there was chronic perisplenitis in 43, or 33 per cent. Histologically there is proliferation of the splenic pulp in the earlier stages of cirrhosis, which may be succeeded later on in the disease by fibrosis and atrophy like that seen in experi- mental chronic intoxications. Peritoneum.—Besides the dilatation of the blood-vessels of the peritoneum already referred to there is no constant lesion. A certain degree of chronic peritonitis is not infrequently seen, and secondary infections may give rise to acute or tuberculous peritonitis. The oesophagus shows dilated and varicose veins towards its lower end, which, as already pointed out, may rupture and give rise to severe or fatal hsemorrhage; the mucous membrane of the oesophagus may be thickened. The stomach usually shows chronic gastritis; as evidence of this, pigmentation at the pylorus is not uncommon. The intestines also show signs of catarrh; when there is chronic peritonitis their length may be considerably curtailed. The pancreas is larger and heavier than normal, and shows a wide-marked fibrosis with fatty and pig- mentary degeneration of the gland cells. The heart is commonly flabby, occasionally dilated, and sometimes shows fatty degenera- tion, probably from concomitant alcoholism. The lungs are often oedematous; the occur- rence of tubercle will be referred to below. Associated Lesions Tuberculosis. — The subjects of alcoholic cirrhosis are more prone to tuberculous infection than non-alcoholic persons dying from other diseases. This is probably due to alcoholism and not to cirrhosis. Tuberculosis is most often seen in the lungs and peritoneum; it may be obsolete, and only found at the autopsy. or it may be acute, and then throws into the shade the cirrhosis. Tubercle is found in the bodies of about 30 per cent of patients with cirrhosis. Cirrhosis certainly seems to dispose the peri- toneum to tuberculous infection, for its occur- rence is comparatively infrequent in adult males apart from cirrhosis. Probably chronic venous engoi'gement reduces the resistance of the peri- toneum and its lymphatics. Kidney Disease. — Adding together the statistics of Pitt, Kelynack, Yeld, and those of Fenton and myself, 387 cases of cirrhosis are obtained, among which 87 or 22"5 per cent showed a granular kidney. The arteriosclerotic change in the kidney does not complicate the cases of cirrhosis occurring early in adult life. Statistics show that the average age of patients with both lesions is higher than those dying with cirrhosis alone. There does not seem to be any special relation between the size of the liver and its association with a granular kidney. Price found a granular kidney more often asso- ciated with a large liver, while Pitt's statistics as well as my own were exactly opposed to this conclusion. As would naturally be expected from the greater frequency of arteriosclerosis in males, the association of cirrhosis with the granular kidney is commoner in men than in women. When the two lesions coexist the symptoms are chiefly those of renal disease. Fatty degeneration of the renal epithelium may occur in cases of cirrhosis, while some- times the kidneys show the effects of backward pressure from cardiac failure. The Course of the Disease The disease may be divided into the early or pre-ascitic stage and the late or ascitic period. In the early stage of cirrhosis the symptoms are chiefly those of dyspepsia, often of an alco- holic nature, with loss of appetite, sickness, and irregularity of the bowels. Symptoms, indeed, may be absent, or be largely those of alcoholism. The pre-ascitic stage begins very vaguely and gradually, but its tenor may be roughly broken by the occurrence of hsematemesis. This may come on after some discomfort and fever, or may occur with little or no warning. After it the patient is blanched for a time, but soon recovers, and usually months or years elapse before ascites develops. In some rare instances the disease runs a rapid and often febrile course, and almost before the patient has recovered from the effects of hgematemesis ascites begins to show itself. After haematemesis the cirrhotic process may become latent and give rise to no further symp- toms, especially if the patient alter his habits of life. The late or ascitic stage may be preceded by gaseous distension of the abdomen, so that its