LIVER, DISEASES OF 488 Epistaxis, purpura, and various cutaneous rashes such as herpes, erythema, and urticaria may be met with. A relapse may occur a week or so after the temperature has become normal; its occurrence may be suspected if, after the end of the first attack, the spleen remains enlarged. The relapse lasts about a week. Chauffard describes Weil's disease as " relapsing infectious jaundice," but in Germany relapses are comparatively infrequently described; thus in 84 cases, of which 73 were collected from German literature, Tymowski found that relapses were mentioned in 19. Diagnosis.—From epidemic catarrhal jaundice it is distinguished by its greater severity and evidence of its being not a local disease limited to the bile ducts, but a general infection, as shown by albuminuria and haemorrhages, with secondary implication of the liver. The associa- tion with albuminixria would at once differen- tiate it from simple or from epidemic jaundice, or from the epidemic form that is sometimes seen in association with influenza. From enteric fever the Widal's reaction would distinguish it. It was formerly described as " bilious typhoid" by Griesinger ; but the lesions of typhoid fever are not found in the body after death, and further, it is extremely rare to see jaundice associated with typhoid fever. The more severe examples of Weil's disease approach icterus gravis and acute yellow atrophy; the difference is one of degree, as far as our present knowledge goes. Relapsing fever should be recognised by examination of the blood and the presence of the spirillum Obermeieri. Hsemoglobinuric fever should be recognised by examination of the blood, by the history of exposure to malaria, and by the vomiting. The Prognosis is fairly favourable, but con- valescence may be protracted. Treatment.—The patient should remain in bed until after the temperature has become normal, and should be restricted to a milk diet. All alcoholic drinks should be interdicted, and the patient should be encouraged to drink freely of water. Intestinal antiseptics, such as salol, salicylate of bismuth, or /8-naphthol, should be given. Liver—Tropical, Parasitic, and other Diseases The physiology and general medical affections of the liver have already been considered. This section mainly treats of so-called "tropical" and parasitic affections of the liver, viz. :— Perihepatitis ...... 488 Acute Hepatitis—Malarial Hepatitis . 494 Derangements of Circulation— Active Congestion .... 496 The Tropical Liver . . .497 Passive Congestion . . . .498 Suppuration in the Liver— In Fi/cemia ..... 501 Tropical Abscess .... 502 Pylephlebitis . . . . .515 Parasites ...... 519 Perihepatitis Definition and Synonyms . . . 488 Anatomical Considerations . . . 489 Varieties and Causation .... 489 Pathology and Pathological Changes . 490 Signs and Sy7nptoms .... 491 Diagnosis and Prognosis . . . .493 Treatment ...... 494 Synonyms. — Capsulitis : adhesive or plastic hepatic inflammation. Definition.—Perihepatitis signifies inflamma- tion of the peritoneum covering the liver. Discussion of Terms employed.—Although the term capsulitis is frequently employed to denote inflammation of the peritoneum covering of the liver, this use of the word is apt to, and does, cause confusion. The peritoneum is frequently considered as the capsule of the liver; but there is a capsule of subperitoneal (fibrous) tissue, en- veloping the liver independently of the peri- toneum, best seen at the several points where the peritoneum is wanting, but also present beneath the peritoneum itself. The surface capsule must not in turn be confused with Glisson's capsule, which is the fibrous investment surrounding the vessels at the gate of the liver and penetrating with them into the liver substance, where it becomes continuous with the connective tissue of the liver itself. It is well to diff'erentiate between the so-called capsulitis and perihepatitis. The former is a secondary affection resulting from congestive and chronic inflammatory changes commencing within the liver, or it may be secondary to, or occur coincidently with, primary perihepatic inflammation ; the latter (perihepa- titis) may be a primary ailment, but may also result from changes commencing in the parietal or visceral peritoneum around the liver, or may be but part of a general peritonitis. The term capsulitis would be useful clinically were its meaning definitely understood. The (fibrous) capsule of the liver is a definite struc- ture seen best where the peritoneum is wanting; but it exists also as a subperitoneal tissue, although thinned and stretched to a degree. The capsule is apparent in the hypertrophied condition met with in liver congestions due to cardiac regurgitation and cardiac and pulmo- nary obstruction, when it will be found as an opaque, white, tight-fitting covering to the liver. Capsulitis should be regarded as a con- dition the result of passive hepatic congestion or of chronic inflammatory changes, and although perihepatitis is apt to supervene, the thickened liver capsule may remain as such without perihepatic inflammation.