438 LIVER, DISEASES OF in the body. The only questions are—Whether this functional disturbance is primary, and whether the inadequacy is independent of any structural change? So many conditions were formerly described as due to functional disease of the liver, many of which had little or nothing to do with that organ; and this idea became firmly implanted in the lay mind, and therefore so recklessly employed, that the tendency at the present time among medical writers is rather to ignore the subject or to deny the existence of primary functional disease of the liver. This swing of the pendulum to the opposite extreme is due to the knowledge that the symptoms ascribed to functional disease of the liver can in great part be explained as due to other factors, such as indigestion, constipation, auto-intoxication, or to subacute congestion of the organ; the latter condition being often secondary to in- testinal disturbance, or to an excessive ingestion of proteid food combined with an imperfect excretion of waste products. In other words, the hepatic disturbances formerly regarded as primary functional insufficiency are in the vast proportion of cases dependent on morbid pro- cesses occurring elsewhere, or to morbid changes on the liver itself. Thus, to consider the symptoms commonly referred to functional disease of the liver. The distaste for food, dyspepsia, and flatulence are the expression of gastro-intestinal catarrh set up by poisonous or unsuitable food. The icteric tint of the conjunctivcB, the muddy skin, and the constipation or diarrhoea, are explained by the spread of the gastro-duodenal catarrh to the biliary papilla, and the slight obstruction to the flow of bile thus induced; or possibly to catarrh of the minute intra- hepatic ducts set up by poisons absorbed from the alimentary canal and subsequently excreted into the ducts. The headache, giddiness, muscae volitantes, malaise, muscular debility, mental depression, and irritability are due to the local action on the nervous system of poisons ab- sorbed from the alimentary canal. These toxic bodies are either produced in such quantities that the liver fails to filter them off', or more probably they act on the liver-cells and impair their vitality and function; in either case the general circulation becomes flooded with toxic bodies. The piles, the feeling of weight in the right hypochondrium, and shoulder pain, point to hepatic congestion, or even slight hepatitis, brought on by the advent to the liver of digestive products in excessive amount and probably of altered {i.e. toxic) quality. This state of hepatic congestion is especially apt to be set up in patients who have suffered from malarious fevers in the Tropics {vide Tropical Liver). Nevertheless there can be no doubt that in some instances morbid results are traceable to the functional disturbance of the liver, without its being always possible to determine satisfac- torily that this disturbance is secondary. Thus in diabetes mellitus there is an excessive activity of the glycogenic function, while in alimen- tary glycosuria the liver is unable to discharge efficiently its function of stopping the sugar brought to it by the portal vein. Thus dia- betes mellitus and glycosuria may be regarded as diseases due to functional disturbance of the liver, but these are not the conditions ordinarily spoken of as functional liver disease. It has recently been urged that puerperal eclampsia is in many cases due to hepatic in- sufficiency, and that the renal symptoms are secondary to a primary hepatic toxaemia. It is supposed that during pregnancy auto-intoxi- cation results from retention of the menstrual discharge, and that in women who inherit a diminished hepatic activity and resistance the liver fails to rise to the occasion, and that as a result of this insufficiency the blood becomes loaded with poisons. As has already been admitted, functional disorder of the liver no doubt is responsible for many symptoms. The difficulty in regard to the subject is to prove that the functional disturbance is primary in the liver, and not secondary to disease or morbid factors else- where. The discussion is not a mere academic exercise, but has a practical bearing on the treatment. Thus, if it were thought that there was a primary failure of hepatic activity, the rational course would be to stimulate the organ; whereas, if there was an underlying and primary factor elsewhere, this should be attacked. The difficulties about the recognition of primary functional disorders of the liver may be best explained by considering some examples of the conditions of which it has been, or might be, supposed to be the cause. Lithsemia was described by Murchison as a condition of innate defect of power, often hereditary, in the liver, in virtue of which its healthy functions are liable to be deranged by the most ordinary articles of diet. As a result of this hepatic insuflBciency, uric acid instead of urea was produced in the liver and turned out into the blood. Among the results of lithsemia Murchison enumerates such different conditions as dyspepsia, constipation, gout, urinary calculi, biliary calculi, and acute and chronic renal disease. This theory is very far reaching, and offers an explanation of gout; in fact, many of the manifestations of lithsemia are those of irregular gout. This theory of lithsemia depends on the as- sumption that the production of uric acid instead of urea, occurs in the liver as the result of imperfect oxidation. But more recent in-