479 LIVER, DISEASES OF Carcinoma may be— (1) Massive, a large growth expanding the liver around it, the surface of which is smooth, though secondary nodules may arise away from the main mass. This form of growth may for a time imitate an abscess or hydatid. Ascites, jaundice, and perihepatitis are rare. It is usually a rapidly growing spheroidal- celled carcinoma derived from the liver-cells, or from the cubical epithelium of the smaller bile ducts ; exceptionally it is a columnar-celled carcinoma starting from one of the larger intra- hepatic ducts. In a few instances giant multi- nuclear cells are found. A carcinoma starting in the gall-bladder and completely replacing it may at first sight be mistaken for a primary massive carcinoma of the liver. (2) Infiltrating Form.—The greater part or even the whole of the liver may be uniformly saturated with carcinoma; sometimes the growth is slow, and a great quantity of fibrous tissue is formed, with the result that the organ is hard, like a small atrophied liver, and not neces- sarily increased in size. In other cases the liver is widely infiltrated with active growth, and is much increased in size and weight. Histologi- cally, this form is generally spheroidal-celled carcinoma. (3) Nodular.—The appearance of the liver is like that seen in secondary carcinoma, the chief difference being that there is no primary growth elsewhere in the body. The tumours grow rapidly, are prone to degenerate, and sometimes become hsemorrhagic. Possibly some of these cases are, like carcinoma of the inguinal lym- phatic glands, in sweeps without primary carcinoma of the scrotum, examples of what has been termed secondary growths without any manifest primary focus. It is compatible with the parasitic theory of cancer to suppose that the hypothetical parasite might, once having gained an entrance through the ali- mentary canal, set up multiple lesions in the liver. Possibly some cases of primary nodular car- cinoma are due to growths arising in accessory suprarenal bodies that have become embedded in the liver. It may be that one of the multiple nodules of growth was primary, and that the others are secondary, but have grown more rapidly and so rivalled it in size. These growths are usually spheroidal-celled, but may be columnar-celled, or show a transi- tion from the latter to the spheroidal type. Just as anatomically, so clinically this form resembles secondary carcinoma of liver, in the frequency with which perihepatitis, pain, jaun- dice, and ascites are met with. (4) The condition termed carcinoma with cirrhosis somewhat resembles the nodular form on the one hand, and cirrhosis with adenoma on the other. It has been chiefly described in France; Hanot and Gilbert say that it is the form met with in more than one-third of the total number of the cases of primary carcinoma of the liver. There are multiple growths associ- ated with cirrhosis of the liver; it is supposed that the compensatory hyperplasia of the liver- cells that gives rise to multiple adenoma passes on into a malignant activity, and that carcinoma develops. This form is frequently associated with thrombosis of the portal and hepatic veins, the growth being said to invade the veins. Secondary growths in the portal lymphatic glands or elsewhere are rare. When they do occur, no doubt can exist about the nature of the change in the liver; but in their absence it seems to me probable that many of the cases described as carcinoma with cirrhosis are merely nodular cirrhosis, or cirrhosis with multiple adenoma {vide p. 467). Histologically the carcinomatous structure is described as being trabecular, and resembling the pseudo-bile canaliculi seen in so many con- ditions where compensatory hypertrophy of the liver-cells is required. It is noteworthy that the symptoms of these cases correspond with those of cirrhosis. Secondary growths in primary carcinoma of the liver occur in the liver itself, in the glands in the portal fissure, and sometimes in the lungs, but the course of the primary disease is so rapid that secondary metastases have not time to become of importance. Gall-stones are rarely found in primary car- cinoma of the liver itself. This contrasts with primary carcinoma of the gall-bladder, where the association is present in 95 per cent of the cases. Primary sarcoma of the liver is much rarer than primary carcinoma. It may occur, as already mentioned, in early life, but a caution should be thrown out not to regard as sarcoma the lesions of congenital syphilis. The following forms of primary sarcoma may be mentioned:— (1) A massive tumour which may soften down and imitate an abscess or a cyst. (2) A diffuse infiltrating form, as seen in cases occurring in early life, and in the rare cases, of which about ten are on record, of primary melanotic sarcoma of the liver. (3) A multiple form without any primary growth. The growth may start from the general con- nective tissue of Glisson's capsule, from the perivascular sheaths, from KupfFer's star cells, or from the endothelium of the vessels. The histological characters of the primary sarcomata met with include small round-celled, spindle-celled, mixed and irregular-celled, angio- sarcoma, and melanotic growths. Difficulty not infrequently arises in deciding whether a primary hepatic tumour should be labelled carcinoma or sarcoma; this depends on the