360 LARYNX, MALIGNANT DISEASE OF operation; still this can only be done by means of very serious and mutilating operative inter- ference, and the risk of recurrence in this class of cases is extremely great. It need hardly be said that the prognosis will greatly depend also upon the age and general health of the patient, very old persons, and such afflicted with albu- minuria and chronic affections of the respira- tory passages, being a priori not nearly such suitable subjects for the operation as younger and generally healthy individuals. The general outcome of the foregoing observations is this, that in every case of malignant disease of the larynx one will have to strictly individualise with regard to the prognosis of life and the chance of operation. Treatment. — The treatment of malignant disease of the larynx at the present moment can be only of a surgical character, and it has already repeatedly been stated that its prospects nowadays are much better than they used to be only a few years ago. There are, however, two dangers with regard to the selection of the method of surgical interference, which have become developed during the last few years, and against which a note of serious warning ought to be sounded. The aim of the practi- tioner in malignant disease of the larynx ought to be to recognise the malady whilst it is still a purely local affectio7i, and to remove it in that stage so thoroughly as to preclude, if possible, the danger of recurrence. Two extremes ought to be equally avoided, viz., doing too little, and doing too much. The first of these two ex- tremes is, in my opinion, represented by the intralaryngeal method, which has of late years been warmly and repeatedly recommended by German authorities whose names justly com- mand respect. But the selection of this method in cases of malignant disease appears to my mind to militate against the very nature of cancer and sarcoma. It is their characteristic that they do not merely grow from the surface, but that they infiltrate the mother-soil from which they spring. Quite in accordance with this is the fact, which I have stated years ago, and which since then I have over and over again had the opportunity of corroborating, viz., that when the larynx is opened in a case of malignant disease, it is almost always found that the infiltration is much more extensive than one would have thought from laryngoscopic examination. Now, whilst the intralaryngeal method is excellently suited for the removal of excrescences from the surface, it does not give the least guarantee for a really radical and complete removal of infiltrated deeper tissues; and there is not the least certainty than even if all that appears suspect has been removed, the disease should not, all the while, progress without let or hindrance in these deeper struc- tures which have not been reached by the intralaryngeal operation, without, for a con- siderable time, manifesting its presence in these tissues. The patient must, therefore, keep himself under constant observation for a very long time; and even such observation, if the disease be extending into the subglottic cavity, does not offer any guarantee against dangerous progress of the affection in that laryngoscopi- cally only in part visible region. Thus, the proper moment for more radical operation may ultimately become irretrievably lost. Addition- ally, when the intralaryngeal method has been employed, the risk of constantly irritating by incomplete operation the affected part, and thereby producing a quicker rate of progress of the disease, is certainly more than theoretical, and ought to be taken into serious consideration. I am fully aware that a number of cases have been cured by intralaryngeal operation, and do not in the least doubt their actuality; but I consider the selection of the intralaryngeal method for that class of cases none the less as dangerous and altogether undesirable. Equally little in the interest of the patient appears to me the other extreme, which has met with some acceptance in Germany, viz., excision of the whole larynx as soon as the diagnosis of malignant disease of that part has been made. If the disease could not otherwise be eradicated than by such heroic measures, matters would be different; but when, in a large number of early much less mutilating interference has been positively demonstrated to suffice for effecting a lasting cure, it appears to me hardly defensible to deprive the patient of an important organ, and of the use of his voice, not to speak of his being made a subject, half of pity, half of repulsion for the rest of his life, on account of the theoretical argument that total extirpation gave better chances against recurrence than partial extirpation or simple thyrotomy with removal of the soft parts. So long as the last-named operation was still on its trial in cases of this sort, such an argumentation in favour of total extirpation had some show of reason ; but now that the experience of the last ten years has demonstrated by actual facts that all that is necessary can be obtained by means of so infinitely simpler, less mutilating, and less dangerous an operation, as thyrotomy is in com- parison to total extirpation, it seems time that the latter method should be reserved for such cases only in which it is indispensable, and that in initial cases of intrinsic cancer or sarcoma thyrotomy should be generally awarded that position which, in the experience of those who have methodically practised it during the last ten years, it fully deserves. As to the operative methods which ought to be selected in any individual case, they must depend entirely upon the primary situation of the new growth and on the stage in which the case comes under observation. In cases of intrinsic malignant disease, particularly when