78 JOINTS, DISEASES OF separation of epiphysis, or deformity incapable of being rectitied otherwise, when there are sinuses with septic infection, and the operation aiTords a reasonable prospect of getting rid of both the tuberculosis and the sepsis, and when the disease is associated with severe bone lesions {e.g. large sequestra, central abscess of bone), or threatened with infection of the lymphatics; (3) in cases where the results of operative inter- ference will be as good or better than those likely to be obtained by conservative measures ; this has been already discussed in relation to the knee, and the advice given that if in the adult the joint is likely to be stiff, then this result is more certainly and rapidly obtained by excision. The same indication applies to the knee in children; the operation performed, however, must not entail any interference with the epiphysial discs; the articular cartilages are pared with a strong knife instead of removing the ends of the bones with the saw. The same indication also applies to the elbow both in adults and in children; if the joint is likely to be stiff, and this result will not comply with the requirements of the patient, much time will be saved by an immediate excision, thereby securing a movable joint and getting rid of the disease at the same time. In other joints the functional results obtained by con- servative measures (excepting under the con- ditions mentioned above) are usually superior to those following operation ; they are therefore persisted in so long as there is any prospect of their leading to a cure of the disease. The nature of the ope^-ative interference varies with the patient, the joint affected, and the type and extent of the disease. In many cases it can only be decided after exploration of the joint. The operative treatment of the present day is different from the old method of excising joints in which the bones were removed with the saw and the diseased soft parts left behind. The modern tendency is not to proceed on stereotyped lines, but to perform atypical operations directed to the special features of each individual case. Experience is therefore an important adjunct to pathological knowledge. The chief aim is to remove all the disease with the least impairment of function. The sacrifice of healthy tissues is reduced to a minimiim. The more open the method of operating the better, so that all parts of the joint are available for inspection, and the principal incision must be so planned as to achieve this object without unnecessary damage to the essential structures of the joint and of the overlying soft parts; the methods intro- duced by Kocher comply with these conditions, especially those which permit of dislocating the joint, since this procedure affords the freest ])0ssible access for inspection and for removal of the disease. Cold abscesses or sinuses should be cured, if possible, before operating on the joint. Diseased synovial membrane is removed with the scissors or knife, sparing its fibrous layer if possible. If the cartilages are sound they may be left (excepting always the knee if a rigid joint is the aim of the operation). If the cartilage is diseased at any point, it should be removed so as to permit of investigating the bone beneath; if extensively separated it should be removed entirely, and special atten- tion directed to the bones. The most minute sinus in bone must be followed up in case of its leading to a caseous focus or sequestrum. If the surface-bone is diseased, a thin slice of it should be removed with the knife or saw. If foci are then revealed it is often better to dig them out than to remove further slices of bone, thereby sparing the cortex and the periosteum. The uninitiated must not mistake fatty marrow for disease. Further details belong to the surgery of the individual joints. The limb should be rendered bloodless before commencing the operation. The technique should be antiseptic, rather than aseptic, so as to diminish the chances of tuberculous infection of the wounded surfaces; with the same object in view, as well as to over- come any minute tuberculous foci which may have escaped detection and removal, a small quantity of sterilised iodoform should be rubbed into the raw surfaces and recesses of the joint. Closure of the entire wound without drainage may be successful in selected cases; inasmuch, however, as an accumulation of blood-clot affords an admirable soil for the development of any tubercle bacilli which have been left behind, it is safer to employ some means of preventing the accumulation of blood in the wound ; the most reliable is to pack the wound with iodoform worsted or gauze, bringing out the end of the strand or strands at one point of the main wound (or through a small wound made for the purpose). If the temperature remains normal the packing is left for a week; it is then moistened with iodoform-glycerine to allow of its being removed without bleeding; a less amount of packing is then introduced, or the whole wound is filled up with the iodoform- emulsion by means of the injection syringe and a rubber tube, the end of which is inserted into the deepest part of the wound ; a suture or gauze pad is then applied to prevent the escape of the emulsion. If there is septic infection either in the first instance or subsequently, the whole wound should be stuffed and treated by the " open method." If a rubber drainage tube is employed to prevent the accumulation of blood, it should be removed in twenty-four or forty-eight hours. Where there are sinuses they must be treated as already described. They are often an indica- tion for treatment by the "open method." It will be observed that nothing has been said of the respective merits and spheres of arthrectotny