LARYNX, MALIGNANT DISEASE OF 359 grown-up person, with enormous tumefaction of the part, and (Edematous swelling of the mucous membrane, to remember, amongst other possi- bilities, that he may have to do with cancer or sarcoma of the larynx. An exploratory thyro- tomy may help to settle the doubt; but this means is, of course, not one to be indiscrimi- nately recommended. Very considerable difficulties are sometimes experienced in making a diflPerential diagnosis between Virchow's pachydermia laryngis and malignant disease of the larynx, if the latter should start from the neighbourhood of the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage. The laryngoscopic appearances of both diseases are sometimes extraordinarily similar to one another, and even the most experienced observer may, in cases in which the affection is unilateral, and the tumefaction at the posterior end of the vocal cord much developed, be very doubtful for a while as to what he has to deal with. Under these circumstances I have always found the question of the mobility of the affected cord a most valuable aid in the diagnosis. Pachydermia, in my experience, never causes, however much the tumefaction may be developed, impairment of the mobility, whilst malignant disease, when originating in that situation, usually leads from its neighbourhood to the crico-arytenoid articulation, to a distinct slug- gishness of the affected vocal cord, even if the tumour be still small. I am well aware that cases of pachydermia have been reported in which an impairment of the mobility of the affected vocal cord was stated to have been present; but I have, in a rather large experience of that disease, never seen such a case, and can only recommend to look upon the question of the mobility of the affected vocal cord as a very valuable differential diagnostic sign. In later stages, i.e. when a second pachydermia has developed on the corresponding part of the opposite vocal process, and when its most promi- nent part fits into the cup gradually arising in the middle of the original pachydermia, the difficulty of a differential diagnosis is but small; but it ought not to be left altogether out of consideration that in very rare cases, such as I have once described together with Mr. Shattock, a secondary carcinoma by contact may develop on the opposite vocal cord.^ The differential diagnosis between malignant disease of the larynx and various forms of paralysis will in very rare cases only come into question. If so, the diagnosis usually, for a time at any rate, is extremely difficult. Thus I have seen two cases in which the appearances were completely those of bilateral paralysis of the glottis-openers, the vocal cords lying close to one another in the middle line of the larynx. 1 "Three Cases of IMalignant Disease of the Air- Passages," Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, 1888. Case 2. The subsequent course, however, proved that this appearance was due to subglottic malignant growth—in one case to an epithelioma, in another to sarcoma. Finally, I may mention that, from my own personal experience, I do not think it possible to make a clinical and differential diagnosis between sareoma and carcinoma of the larynx. I know perfectly well that directions describing different appearances of these two forms of growth may be found in almost all handbooks of laryn- gology ; but I confess that I personally never have been able, from mere laryngoscopic exami- nation, to distinguish between them clinically, either in their early or more advanced stages, and that in all my own cases the differential diagnosis has been arrived at by means of micro- scopic examination, either of fragments intra- laryngeally removed before radical operation, or of the entire gi'owth after this had been performed. Prognosis.—Whilst there is, unfoi-tunately, even now a but too universal belief that malignant disease of the larynx is necessarily a fatal disease, the progress made in both the diagnosis and the operative treatment of car- cinoma and sarcoma of the larynx in the course of the last fifteen years is such that, in reality, matters are very different. As a matter of fact, the prognosis of malignant disease of the larynx varies enormously in individual cases according to (1) the original starting-point of the growth ; (2) the period at which the patient comes under observation; (3) his general health. From personal experience, I have no hesitation in stating that if an intrinsic laryngeal cancer in a middle-aged or, at any rate, not too old and otherwise healthy person, comes under observa- tion at an early stage, and if the patient agrees to radical operation without delay, the prognosis is equally good, if not better, than in any other form of malignant disease in any other part of the body. I make this statement on the strength of the fact that my own percentage, not merely of successful operations, but of lasting cures in this class of cases, at present amounts to 83'3 per cent. The prognosis, therefore, in this variety can unhesitatingly be pronounced to be very favourable. On the other hand, if the patient, even though the affection originally belonged to the intrinsic variety, comes under observation at a time when the disease has become very extensive, when the cervical lymphatics have become in- volved, when his general health has already begun to suffer, the prognosis, needless to say, is, even now, a very grave one. The same applies, to an even higher degree, when the growth is primarily extrinsic, and particularly when it starts from the posterior surface of the cricoid plate. It is true that the progress of surgery has enabled us to save a good many even of such cases by more perfect methods of