LEPROSY 387 teristic clawing. After some time the fingers cannot be straightened. Similar changes occur in the toes; perforating ulcers form on the sole, particularly in persons who go barefoot. After the disease has lasted some time the bones of the fingers and toes may disappear by caries and by interstitial absorption, the inter- stitial absorption of bone without inflammation often being a special characteristic of nerve leprosy. The neuritis of the nerves of the face pro- duces striking effects. The paralysis of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle leads to in- capacity to close the eyelids, and the lower lid falls downwards, particularly at the inner corner. Tears from the lachrymal duct flow over the cheek. From the injury sustained by the cornea by remaining uncovered, particularly during sleep, small vesicles form, leading to opacities. Complete ectropion is established; the ulceration of the cornea may lead to rupture and prolapse of the iris and atrophy of the eyeball. Paralysis of the orbicularis oris leads to dropping of the under lip, difficulty in closing the mouth, and dribbling of saliva. In later stages, smell and taste are diminished or lost. Dyspeptic symptoms, heartburn, pyrosis, acidity, constipation, drying of the mouth, and great thirst occur. The patient complains of sensation of cold, and in the later stages of the disease Hillis states the tempera- ture is several degrees below normal. The kidneys are liable to amyloid degenera- tion, and death is frequently caused by diarrhoea accompanied by cramps. If the disease occurs before puberty, menstrua- tion does not occur. If it begins in adult life it is usually irregular, and sometimes ceases. The progress of nerve leprosy may become arrested. The spots nearly always disappear when the disease has lasted long, and sensibility may be re-established. The general health may improve, but the anaesthesia of the skin and the atrophic condition of the muscles remain, although even these conditions may greatly improve in young persons. In some cases the disease may be considered completely cured. The mean duration of the disease is stated by Bidencap to be eighteen or nineteen years, and many of these persons may attain a relatively great age. In tropical countries cases of nerve leprosy outnumber those of tubercular leprosy, whilst in cool damp climates the reverse is the case. Pathology op Lepra Tuberosa.—When a section is made from a leprous nodule, the substance of the cutis is found to be replaced by an accumulation of cells of various sizes packed together in enormous numbers. The cells vary in size, many of them being not larger than a white blood corpuscle, while some are considerably larger. These cells contain the leprosy bacilli, which were discovered by Hansen in 1871.1 fj^g smallest of these cells contain few bacilli, but the larger cells contain great numbers, often arranged in groups. The majority of the cells have the appearance of white blood corpuscles, and we have found in small capillary blood-vessels of a leprous larynx white corpuscles containing bacilli. But there is evidence to show that the connective tissue cells also contain bacilli. The leprous nodule is well supplied with blood-vessels; and as it grows, and the number of cells containing bacilli increase, the connective tissue is absorbed. In the skin, for a long time, a thin layer of connective tissue immediately under the rete mucosum remains entire. Bacilli are very rarely found in the epidermis, but they have been occasionally observed; and the author of this article has described and figured them in cells in the rete mucosum (possibly cells which have migrated from the cutis), and Dr. Unna has shown clearly that many lepra bacilli may be found in the hair follicles between the sheath and the hair-shaft. The leprous cells in the spleen, liver, and testicle, nerves, lymphatic glands, and eyes, and in the pharynx and larynx, also contain bacilli similar to those in the nodules in the skin. Hansen and Looft have never found bacilli in the liver-cells, but have found in the hepatic vessels white corpuscles containing bacilli. In old nodules it is found that the leprosy bacilli have broken down into granules. Al- though the bacilli are mostly contained in cells, collections of them are also found in lymph spaces. They develop in the protoplasm of the cells, the nucleus being long spared, vacuolation of the protoplasm eventually resulting. The bacilli are rarely found in the blood, but that they may be found there is shown by the fact that Hansen and Looft have described and figured them lying between red corpuscles in the vessels. The order of development of the leprous nodule would seem to be that white corpuscles containing bacilli are deposited in the tissues ; the toxin generated by the bacilli acting on the blood-vessels leads to emigration of leucocytes, which in their turn become infected by the previously infected corpuscles with which they come in contact—this process going on slowly and persistently until we have the large ac- cumulation of cells contained in the leprous nodule. That this development requires special conditions within the body is shown by the fact that in many tissues it does not take place. ^ Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. Ixvi. p. 315 : "The first notice of the bacillus of leprosy is contained in a report made to the Medical Society of Christiania in 1874 by Hansen. In his paper on the subject in the Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, New Series, vol. XX., 1880, this report is referred to as containing the statement that he had ' often, indeed generally found, when seeking for them in the leprous tubercles, small rod-shaped bodies in the cells of the swelling.'"