LABOUE, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED 238 uterine fibroids. Although fibroids are common, pregnancy with fibroids is not, because fibroids occur chiefly after the child-bearing age. If pregnancy occur with a fibroid, the tumour usually gets larger, softer, and more vascular during pregnancy, and then after delivery it undergoes involution—gets smaller, harder, and less vascular. I have known a fibroid disappear during puerperal involution of the uterus. A subperitoneal fibroid situated above the pelvic brim interferes in no way with pregnancy, labour, or lying in. A submucous or interstitial fibroid often causes changes in the endometrium which are inimical to the occurrence of pregnancy ; but pregnancy may occur with such a tumour. It is often said that such tumours interfere with uterine contractions, make labour lingering, and cause post-partmu liEemorrhage ; but in my judgment the evidence in support of these state- ments is insufficient. It has not infrequently happened that the accoucheur has put his hand in the uterus, discovered the tumour, and with- out difficulty has enucleated and removed it. In some, the tumour has been spontaneously expelled after delivery; in others, which are rarer, the foetal head has driven the tumour down before it, broken through its attachments, expelled it, and so cured the patient. If a fibroid is situated in the cervix or lower part of the body of the uterus, and is so large that there is no possibility of the child's head getting past it, there are only two alternatives. One is to remove the tumour ; the other to per- form Csesarean section. If the tumour is acces- sible it can probably be easily enucleated. The methods of enucleating uterine fibroids are described elsewhere. The only point special to enucleating a fibroid in a pregnant uterus is that its capsule will be very vascular, so care must be taken to see that after its removal the uterus drives the foetal head down upon the site of the tumour. If this does not happen, the place of the fa3tal head should be supplied by a dilating bag, that so the bleeding part may be pressed upon and hfemorrhage restrained. If the tumour is so large and so situated as to obstruct delivery, and it cannot be easily and safely removed, it is best to perform Caesarean section, after which the uterine arteries can be tied, and the body of the uterus with the tumour removed. Lastly, after delivery a fibroid may invert the uterus, just as it sometimes does an un- impregnated uterus. If the fibroid is so far driven down that its equator gets below the internal os, then when the internal os con- tracts the tumour will be driven farther down, and may pull the body of the uterus after it. The treatment is to peel off the fibroid and then reduce the inverted uterus. If it is undertaken soon, this can be easily done, by pressing the inverted fundus up with one hand, and at the same time steadying the cervix uteri and dilating the os internum with the fingers of the other hand on the abdominal wall. Delivery may be obstructed by tumours of the pelvic bones. These may be exostoses. These are especially apt to grow where there is cartilage—at the symphysis pubis, the sacral promontory, and the sacro-iliac synchondrosis; Fig. 54.—Sacral exostosis. and where tendons are inserted—the psoas minor and Gimbernat's ligament. The pelvic bones may also be irregiUarly thickened by periostitis. Exostoses of the pelvis are seldom so large as to obstruct delivery, but they make laceration of the vagina more apt to occur, the mucous membrane being nipped between the head and Fig. 55.—Cancerous growths from pelvic bones. a bony spine. Pelves presenting exostoses have been styled "spiny" or "thorny" pelves, or " acanthopelys." The commonest large tumoui's in the pelvis are enchondromata and sarcomata. Enchondro- mata usually grow from near the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and are larger than most other