JAUNDICE 58 Aneurysms can only be diagnosed as the cause of jaundice when they can be felt. (j) GleHitrd's Disease. — In rare instances hepatoptosis may give rise to twisting of the bile duct and jaundice. Dilatation and ptosis of the stomach niay also induce kinking of the bile duct, or by leading to kinking of the duodenum prevent the outflow of bile from the biliary papilla. (k) Uteiine and Ovarian Tumours. — Large fibro-myomata and cysts have been known to produce jaundice, but they must reach an enormous size before doing so, and their exist- ence would be manifest long before. Malignant tumours arising in the uterus or ovaries may, by means of secondary growths in or near the liver, give rise to biliary obstruction. {I) Fsecal impaction in the colon has been said to give rise to jaundice, but the association is rare, and it is probable that when these two conditions are associated there is either some underlying cause, such as malignant disease, which accounts for them both, or the jaimdice is due to catarrh of the ducts. Differential Diagnosis The large number of conditions of which jaundice may be a symptom makes it essential that a careful examination should be made for evidence of disease elsewhere. Thus the exist- ence of a tumour in the abdomen, breast, or rectum will suggest malignant disease, while the coexistence of syphilis, in either the secondary or tertiary stage, should be an indication for specific treatment. The following points have a bearing on the nature of jaundice in a given patient:— Age.—Transient slight j^iundice noticed a few days after birth is physiological, but if the jaundice is well marked, and accompanied by fever, septic infection spreading from the um- bilicus may have taken place. Persistent jaimdice from birth is in favour of congenital obliteration of the ducts. In early adult life catarrhal jaundice should be thought of. Between the ages of thirty and forty years gall-stones, especially in women, are the most probable cause, while later in life malignant disease and cirrhosis must also be taken into account. Sex.—Women are more prone to gall-stones and to malignant disease ; men to cirrhosis, and perhaps to the infectious forms of jaundice, such as Weil's disease, which have been noticed to attack soldiers and butchers. Pregnant women seem more susceptible than others to acute yellow atrophy. Onset.—If preceded by gastro-intestinal dis- turbance, catarrhal jaundice is indicated ; if by severe colic, gall-stones. A gradual onset with no special accompaniments should suggest the pressure of a tumour, practically always of a malignant nature, on the ducts. Repeated and transient attacks are in favour of gall-stones. Occurrence of Pain.—Constant pain is sugges- tive of malignant disease, intermittent attacks point to gall-stones. Attacks of biliary colic may also occur when hydatid membranes are passed through the ducts, and occasionally when malignant disease involves the ducts— pseudo-gall-stone colic. Absence of pain is, however, no proof against malignant disease, though it is the rule in catarrhal jaundice, and common in cirrhosis. Dtiration and Progress.—Jaundice of short duration is most commonly catarrhal, or due to the passage of gall-stones. If continued for more than six months it is highly unlikely that malignant disease is present, and biliary cirrhosis or impacted gall - stone should be thought of. Jaundice lasting for years is probably due to biliary cirrhosis. Progressive and black jaundice suggests malignant disease, while jaundice that persists but varies from time to time is more com- patible with a stone impacted in the common duct, or with biliary cirrhosis. Degree and Intensity of Jaundice.—Slight icterus may be catarrhal or, if associated with fever and constitutional conditions, toxfemic. The commonest causes of deep jaundice are malignant disease, impaction of a gall-stone in the common duct, and biliary cirrhosis. Ex- tremely deep jaundice almost necessitates malig- nant disease ; that accompanying gall - stone impaction is deeper than that of cirrhosis, but never equals that seen in compression of the common bile duct by tumours, such as carcinoma of the head of the pancreas, or in malignant disease of the duct. Outbreaks of jaundice in epidemics suggest some form of toxsemic jaundice. Fever suggests toxaemic jaundice, or biliary cirrhosis when associated with considerable splenic enlargement ; pyrexia, of course, occurs in calcidous cholangitis, in hepatic suppuration such as abscess or pylephlebitis, and occasionally in malignant disease. Considerable enlargement of the liver is met with in biliary cirrhosis, in absc^ess, and in malignant disease ; in the latter it is progres- sive, and the surface will probably be nodular. The association of ascites with jaundice points to malignant disease or to cirrhosis, but in the former jaundice is deeper. In fact, the darker the jaimdice the more likely is the cause to be malignant growth. The existence of disease elsewhere in the body has already been insisted on as of supreme im- portance in arriving at a diagnosis of the cause, and therefore of the prognosis and treatment of jaimdice. Prognosis.—The occurrence of jaundice in certain diseases is of importance as showing that hepatic complications have supervened;