KIDNEY 98 opened, the necessity or the advantage of perineal drainage of the bladder should be raised. If the bladder is feeble or atonic, and clots show a decided tendency to form in that viscus, it is good surgery to place a large perineal drain in the bladder so as to prevent the inevi- table cystitis and those ascending changes which follow in its train. If prolonged shock and symptoms of profuse haemorrhage into the peritoneum point to the tearing of the peritoneal surface of the kidney, the abdomen must be opened by the transperi- toneal incision and the blood removed. (6) Open lesions. In all cases of open lesion it is essential, if the haemorrhage or haematuria be severe, to enlarge the wound, and to deal with the kidney as the injury demands. Traumatic Nephritis After a blow or injury to the loin the onset of nephritis is marked by a rigor and the temperature rises. Blood is usually present in the urine, and when this disappears after a few days the microscope will show tube-casts and epithelium, and for a day or two red granular material is often observed (Kiister). Albumin is present in varying amount. A peculiarity of traumatic nepliritis is the combination of albuminuria with polyuria, which contrasts with the scanty urine of acute nephritis. A further distinctive feature is the rapid development of oedema of the feet, face, or sometimes the whole body. The cedema is not uncommonly (three in five cases, Potain) confined to one side, the injured one, of the body (Kiister). Some days later pyuria may appear, and if the temperature remains high suppuration has probably occurred. It should not be forgotten in the diagnosis of traumatic nephritis that old-standing renal disease may have preceded the injury. Prognosis.—In traumatic nephritis only one kidney is affected, and recovery as a rule takes place, the attack passing off in ten or fourteen days (Morris). Some cases go on to chronic nephritis (Albarran). Suppuration sometimes occurs and will require surgical interference. Treatment.—The rest and diet already ob- served on account of the injury should be con- tinued. Leeches may be applied to the loin. Perinephritis and Pbrinephritic Abscess Inflammation of the areolar tissue around the kidney is comparatively rare, the published cases not exceeding more than a " few hundred " (Fiirb ringer). Etiology and Pathology.—The inflammation may stop short of actual pus formation and form only a dense fibrous thickening, or suppura- tion may take place. Before describing the symptoms of the disease it is convenient to review briefly those conditions which may lead up to it, and which one may expect to find in the history of a case, and also to note some facts of interest in their bearing on the prognosis. The disease is more frequent in males than in females, and occurs usually between the ages of twenty and forty. The right side is more often aff"ected than the left; it is seldom bilateral (3 in 230 cases, Kiister). In many cases careful examination of the other organs and attention to the history reveal no condition likely to induce suppuration, but in others the history of a chill, a muscular strain or a blow in the lumbar region (probably 26 per cent, Duffin) is obtainable, or some small suppurating point, such as a whitlow, a boil, or carbuncle, is present; in 17 per cent (Fenwick) perinephritic abscesses occurred during the course of some severe toxsemic condition, such as pyaemia, smallpox, scarlatina, etc. ; a few can be traced to disease in the appendix, liver, pelvic organs (23'5 per cent) or the vertebrae (3'7 per cent). Lastly, a separate group of cases takes origin in disease of the kidney (32 per cent), and these are named " secondary" while the others are "primary." Symptoms.—In some conditions the causative disease is severe, and masks the symptoms of the perirenal suppuration, which may only be discovered on the post-mortem table. Thus pelvic cellulitis may be complicated by peri- nephritic abscess without the latter condition sufficiently modifying the symptoms already present to attract attention, or during the malignant course of pyaemia or smallpox the kidney may become surrounded with pus with- out the latter giving any indication of its presence. In the primary class of cases the disease attains its most rapid and pronounced form; even here, however, the signs may some- times be obscure and lead the practitioner astray, and this occurs more especially in the older and more weakly individuals than in the more robust. In the other type of case where some renal disease is present and especially of calculous nature, the symptoms are more moderate, the course more prolonged, and the patient less likely to survive the disease. Onset.—In most cases the disease commences insidiously with pain (64 per cent, Fenwick) of a dull, heavy character in one loin, or an indefinite aching on both sides, which later becomes more localised. This mode of onset is especially fre- quent when the abscess is secondary to renal disease, less often when other causes are present. When the suppuration arises apart from disease of the kidney, a sudden rigor and rise of temperature is more likely to be the preface to further symptoms.