LEUCOCYTOSIS 401 cythsemia. In conditions of health the average j number of leucocytes varies considerably in ■ different individuals, but may be said to be as a rule between 6000 and 10,000 per c.mm. It is impossible to state exactly at what point the variation of the leucocyte number becomes abnormal, but it may be stated that it is rare for the number to rise above 12,000 or to fall below 5000 without some abnormal condition being present. The average normal number may be increased under certain physiological conditions, and such a change is accordingly j spoken of as physiological leucocytosis. It occurs to a slight extent after a meal — digestive leucocytosis—being usually most marked three or four hours afterwards. The increase is said to be more pronounced after a diet rich in proteids, but in any case it rarely exceeds 20 per cent of the normal number. The number of leucocytes may also be increased during the later months of pregnancy, and i: to a rather more marked degree after parturi- I tion. It is important that these variations should be known and borne in mind, otherwise slight rises in the leucocyte number may some- times be misinterpreted In infancy also, especially in the few weeks following birth, the leucocyte number is increased, and at this period the proportion of lymphocytes is un- usually high, being often about 50 per cent (see article on "Blood"). In these various conditions of physiological leucocytosis, with j the exception of the increase in infancy, it has usually been found that the various forms of leucocytes are uniformly increased; but fuller details on this point are still desirable. It is, however, with the leucocytosis occurring in disease that we have to do in this article, and we shall also treat here of the converse condition, namely, a fall in the leucocytes— leucopenia. In the great majority of cases of pathological leucocytosis, the increase in the number is due mainly, and often exclusively, to an increase of the finely granular (neutrophils) polymorpho-nuclear leucocytes. This is a well- established fact, and accordingly the term ' ordinary leucocytosis is frequently used with the significance that the increase is on the part of these cells. The term lymphocytosis strictly means an increase of the lymphocytes per c.mm., but is often used as indicating a l percentage increase in the number of these ! cells. The latter use of the term is somewhat unfortunate for scientific purposes, as in many cases where the leucocyte number is diminished, the relative proportion of lymphocytes is ( increased, whilst their total number is not so. It is therefore advisable that the term should I be only employed to signify an actual increase 1^ of the lymphocytes. It may be stated here ) that such actual increase is comparatively rare, if we except the lymphatic form of leuco- cythsemia, and in some cases of tumours of VOL. v the lymphatic glands. The term eosinojMle leucocytosis or eosinophilia is used to signify an increase in the percentage number of the eosinophile leucocytes. In this case the percentage increase practically always indicates an actual increase. We shall now consider more in detail these variations in the leucocytes as they are met with clinically. 1. Ordinary (finely granular) Leuco- cytosis.—The ordinary leucocytosis, due to an increase of the polymorpho-nuclear neutro- phile leucocytosis, occurs in a great many different conditions. Such conditions, which have been variously classified, may be placed for convenience in the following groups; but we shall have to consider afterwards whether in the different groups the leucocytosis is not in nature essentially the same : — (a) Leuco- cytosis in inflammatory and infective condi- tions ; {h) Toxic leucocytosis; (c) Post- hsemorrhagic leucocytosis ; (d) Cachectic leucocytosis, especially associated with malig- nant diseases. (a) The first group embraces a great many diseases, many of which have now been proved to be due to special micro-organisms, whilst in others the nature of the causal agent is still unknown. A well-marked leucocytosis is com- mon in pneumonia, erysipelas, diphtheria, scarlet fever, plague, smallpox (in the suppurative stage), etc.; in acute inflammatory processes, especially when they are attended by suppuration, e.g. in peritonitis, arthritis, appendicitis, abscesses in internal organs, in most gangrenous inflam- mations, in pyaemia, and in most cases of septicaemia. It will be noted that in the majority of such conditions there is present a local lesion with emigration in large numbers of the finely granular leucocytes into the tissues, and it may be stated as a general rule that up to a certain point the leucocytosis is proportional to the severity of the affection or the extent of the local lesion. This rule, however, must be taken in a very general sense, as several factors are involved. An empyema will be attended by a greater leucocytosis than a small local abscess; but the degree of leucocytosis in pneumonia does not vary strictly with the amount of lung tissue affected, just as the severity of the disease does not depend on this alone. Further, there are variations depending upon individual peculiarities, and when the affection becomes very severe and mai-ked toxaemia is present, the leucocytosis may diminish, and the leucocyte number may even fall below the normal. The actual number of leucocytes in such conditions as those mentioned, of course, varies greatly, but 15,000 to 30,000 may be said to be the common upper Hmit. Leucocytosis in which the number rises above 40,000 must be considered extreme. Of the diseases mentioned, pneumonia is that in which the condition of leucocytes has been 26 I