428 LIVER, PHYSIOLOGY OF According to Langley, what he calls " pro- teid granules " are to be seen in the liver-cells of the frog, especially in summer. Minute channels passing into the protoplasm and communicating with the bile capillaries have been described, but the true hile passages, which commence as chinks between the liver- cells, form an anastomosing plexus of ducts between the lobules. These are lined by a cubical epithelium. They join together to form the larger bile ducts, and these present a columnar epithelial lining and a fibrous coat with non-striped muscular fibres in its substance. In many animals there is a diverticulum on the common bile duct, the gall-hladder, which has the same structure as the bile passages, but which, in some animals, has a few mucous glands, opening into it. The hlood-snpply of the liver is twofold. The hepatic artery supplies the connective tissue of the organ, and the portal vein supplies the parenchyma, but between them is a very free anastomosis. Both vessels are carried in the fibrous tissue of the organ; and when such a piece of fibrous tissue is cut across, the large branch of the portal vein and the smaller branches of the hepatic artery, with one or two branches of the bile-ducts, are to be seen form- ing a p)ortal tract. These two sets of vessels terminate in plexuses of capillaries between the lobules, and from these capillaries pass inwards between the I'ows of liver-cells, and end in a central vein which carries the blood from the lobules, and these central veins joining together form the sublobular veins, which by their junction make the hepatic vein, by which the blood is carried off to the inferior vena cava. The nerves of the liver are non-medullated, and are derived from the coeliac plexus, partly from the vagi, partly from the splanchnic nerves. Physiology.—1. General.—While the liver originates as an outgrowth from the gut, it soon acquires other relations, and although it never becomes so completely separated from the alimentary canal as do the thyroid and thymus glands, its main functions are connected with the general metabolism rather than with the digestion. Early in intra-uterine life the ductus venosus bringing blood from the developing placenta opens up into a capillary net-work among the liver tubules, and the organ becomes permeated with sinuses through which the blood slowly streams, and in which the nucleated red corpuscles divide and multiply. About this time glycogen and fat, which have already appeared in the placenta, begin to be found in the liver-cells. As the alimentary canal develops, blood is sent from it to the liver, and when at birth the placental circulation is stopped, and the animal is nourished from the intestine, the liver re- mains upon the main channel of absorption. Both in intra- and in extra-uterine life the liver is the great regulator of the supply to the tissues of the proteids, fats, and carbohydrates from which the body gets its energy, and its action in this direction may be briefly summar- ised as follows :— (1) It regulates the supply of sugar— (a) By manufacturing it from proteids when the supply of carbohydrates is cut off. ill) By storing it as glycogen when the carbohydrates are supplied in greater quantities than are required by the body, and afterwards giving it out as it is required. (2) It regulates the supply of fat in many animals by storing any excess. (3) It regulates the supply of proteid, acting along with the intestinal wall, by decomposing any excess and giving off the nitrogenous part as urea. (4) It regulates the number of red corpuscles by breaking down the older corpuscles and de- composing and eliminating the hsemoglobin. 2. Regulation of Supply of Sugar to the Body.—That sugar is used in the tissues, and chiefly in muscle, as a source of energy is demonstrated by the large proportion of carbo- hydrates in the ordinary diet of man, and by the excretion of its great product of combustion —carbon dioxide—when sugar is taken. But although it is thus used in the tissues, its amount in the blood is not diminished when the supply from without is cut off. It must there- fore be continually produced in the body; and the fact that, when proteids are given in the food, glycogen is formed from them in the liver, seems to indicate that in starvation this pro- duction of sugar from proteids is carried on in that structure. This production of sugar in the liver Bernard named its glycogenic functions. On account of the small amount of sugar present in the blood, and of the imperfections in the analytic methods at our disposal, the direct experimental evidence upon this point is by no means satisfactory. But the indirect evidence is sufiiciently convincing, and in certain patho- logical conditions, such as diabetes, the production of sugar from proteids becomes very manifest. When the supply of carbohydrates in the food is excessive, the liver takes up the surplus sugar, and by synthesis and dehydration, pro- bably effected only after the sugar has become part of the liver protoplasm, converts it into the polysaccharid glycogen, and in this form stores it for future use. There is evidence that this glycogen is in close chemical union with the living matter, and that the separation is only brought about at the death of the cell, or when it is being discharged. The various monosac- charids, e.g. glucose, levulose, galactose, can all be stored as glycogen; but the disaccharid lac-