462 LIVER, DISEASES OF On the Occurrence of the Various Forms of Cirrhosis in Early Life The various forms of hepatic cirrhosis that may be met with in children have been described elsewhere, but it may be useful to summarise the facts briefly here. The pericellular cirrhosis of hereditary syphilis and the lesions of tardive hereditary syphilis are fully dealt with (p. 476), and it is there pointed out that after recovery from pericellular cirrhosis the liver is probably left with its resistance so diminished that it may readily become affected by ordinary portal cirrhosis, the resulting change being neither due to syphilis nor curable by antisyphilitic treat- ment, but disposed to by the influence of former syphilis, and therefore parasyphilitic and comparable to locomotor ataxia and general paralysis of the insane. Some cases of marked portal cirrhosis in early life may thus be distantly related, though not directly due, to syphilis. In rickets some slight fibrosis may occur in the liver, but it is never marked, probably transitory; it is hardly worth while to speak of rickety cirrhosis. Both portal and hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis are met with in children, and the symptoms conform fairly well to those seen in adults. In atrophic cirrhosis there is occasionally an absence of all hepatic symptoms and the presence of marked nervous manifestations, so that the existence of cirrhosis is quite un- suspected during life. Such cases have been recorded by Ormerod and Homen, but it is possible that the cases were juvenile general paralytics with a parasyphilitic cirrhosis of the liver. Pulmonary tuberculosis is, I believe, much rarer in portal cirrhosis of children than in adults; but, on the other hand, tuberculous peritonitis is not an infrequent complication in children. Hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis, which, under ordinary conditions, occurs earlier in life than portal cirrhosis, may present special features when it occurs in infants. The biliary cirrhosis of Brahmin infants around Calcutta, and the juvenile type of hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis described by Gilbert and Fournier, have already been referred to. It is noticeable that some cases of hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis in children run a very protracted course, and that some- times the type changes and eventually presents many of the features of portal cirrhosis. Marked monolobular cirrhosis accompanies congenital obliteration of the bile ducts {vide vol. iii. p. 372), but the symptoms are those of biliary obstruction. Cases of hepatic pseudo- cirrhosis, cardiac cirrhosis, and cardio-tuber- culous cirrhosis {vide chronic venous engorgement of the liver), are chiefly met with in children. Degenerations and Infiltrations Fatty Liver ...... 462 Lardaceous Liver ..... 464 riGMBNTARY CHANGE .... 464 Calcareous Infiltration 465 LEUKiEMic Infiltration .... 465 Fatty Liver Fatty Infiltration and Degeneration . 462 Causation ...... 462 Morbid Anatomy ..... 463 Signs ....... 463 Symptoms ...... 463 Diagnosis ...... 463 This includes the two conditions of (i.) fatty infiltration, and (ii.) fatty degeneration. Although this article is only concerned with a pathological increase of fat in the liver, it may be well to state what is meant by the terms fatty infiltration and fatty degeneration. Fatty Infiltration or accumulation is an exaggeration of the physiological storage of fat in the liver-cells ; fat is normally present in small amounts in the liver-cells of young children, sometimes in healthy persons who have died from the effects of accidents, and commonly in obesity. Histologically, the cells at the periphery of the lobules of the liver are first and chiefly affected, and contain globules of fat of considerable size ; the protoplasm and the nucleus of the cell are mechanically dis- placed by the fat, and are not chemically altered or degenerated. When the fat is removed the cells return to their normal state. In Fatty Degeneration the protoplasm of the liver-cell degenerates and undergoes a retrograde metabolism; as a result, globules of fat, at first of small size, appear scattered throughout the cell substance. The nucleus remains in its normal position; after removal of the fat the cell appears shrunken, its protoplasm granular, and the nucleus fragmentary. Fatty degenera- tion may occur in any part of the hepatic lobule, and may begin first in the central zone. These two conditions run into each other, and in practice it is in many cases difficult to draw a hard and fast line between fatty infiltra- tion and fatty degeneration. It is therefore better to speak of pathological fatty change in the liver. Causation. — Pathological fatty change in the liver is met with in a number of conditions. (1) Poisons.—Alcohol. Fatty change is very definitely related to alcoholic excess, and experi- ments show that alcohol may be regarded as a protoplasmic poison. Phosphorus, arsenic, antimony, iodoform, the mineral acids, oxalic, tartaric, and other acids, lead to marked fatty change. Phloridzin gives rise to fatty change, which like that due to phosphorus has been regarded as an infiltration and not a degeneration.