136 KNEE-JOINT, DISEASES IN THE REGION OF all the disease: it should not be reserved for hopeless cases. Arthrectomy of the Knee.—Evasion.—Flexion of the joint should, if possible, be corrected before operation by means of extension with the weight and pulley, in order to stretch the structures in the ham. There are several methods of performing the operation : those in which a transpatellar or H-incision or an anterior U-shaped flap is made, have this in common, that the patella or its ligament is divided transversely. Other methods are to be preferred which maintain the integrity of the extensor apparatus, viz., that by two vertical incisions, one on either side of the patella, or the single large external J-shaped incision of Kocher. We shall describe the last-mentioned operation. The limb should be rendered bloodless in the usual way. The incision is made upon the outer aspect of the joint. It begins a hand's-breadth above the upper margin of the patella, and at first descends vertically at a distance of two fingers'-breadths from the outer border of that bone; it then inclines gently inwards, and terminates on the inner aspect of the tibia, a little below the tubercle. The fat and fascia lata are divided in the line of the incision, and at the upper part the fibres of the vastus externus. The capsule is then divided over the outer condyle of the femur and along the outer edge of the ligamentnm patellse. By means of the chisel the tubercle of the tibia, along with the ligamentum and periosteum, are displaced inwards. One then proceeds to remove the synovial membrane and semilunar cartilages, and in doing so excellent access is obtained by dislocating the patella inwards, while at the same time the joint is more and more flexed. If it is desired to clear out the posterior pouch of the joint, the femoral attachments of the lateral and crucial ligaments may be separated, along with the periosteum and bone, by means of the chisel. The articular surfaces are carefully inspected, and any sus- picious areas are scooped out with the spoon. If there is genu valgum it may be corrected by paring the articular surfaces of the inner condyle and internal tuberosity to the extent required. Iodoform powder is rubbed into the surface and recesses of the wound. The divided capsule and other ligamentous attachments are sutured so as to re-establish the stability of the joint. Drainage may be provided for by means of a rubber tube or a strand of iodoform gauze or worsted. If there is any doubt as to the likelihood of primary healing, the cavity of the wound should be packed with iodoform gauze or worsted. The entire limb from the tuber ischii to the malleoli is then enveloped in plaster-of-Paris, or enclosed in a long splint. When the wound is soundly healed the patient is provided with a Thomas splint, which must be worn for a jieriod of not less than two years in order to prevent flexion of the joint. During the whole of this time the patient should be kept under observation. Flexion after Arthrectomy.—If the patient has been allowed to put the limb to the ground, or has been otherwise neglected, the knee is very apt to become flexed, and this deformity once started is almost certain to increase by the mere weight of the body in walking. In a small number of cases, and especially in rickety children, the flexion may be partly due to a forward curve of the lower part of the shaft of the femur. The deformity may be corrected by linear osteotomy (using a broad chisel) either across the knee-joint from the front, or, in addition, where the femur is curved, by a second osteotomy in the lower third of the shaft. Relapse of the disease after arthrectomy is to be treated by excision or amputation. Excision of the Knee.—Inasmuch as the double object of this operation is to remove every particle of disease, and to secure rigid bony ankylosis, there is no longer any question, as in arthrectomy, of preserving ligamentous connections between the bones, or of preserv- ing the extensor apparatus. The subcapsulo- periosteal method of Oilier, which presents such advantages in other joints, is quite out of place in the knee. The surgeon should aim at re- moving the antero-lateral portions of the capsule and synovial membrane, along with the patella and its ligament, in one piece, as if he were engaged in the removal of a malignant tumour (A. G. Miller, Kocher). At the end of the operation, the sawn ends of the femur and tibia should be covered by nothing but skin and fascia. The incision employed should be one giving free access to the whole area of the joint; Kocher's external incision, already described in the operation of arthrectomy, or a large an- terior U-shaped flap may be employed. In view of the superfluity of skin in cases where the knee is flexed, or where there is considerable swelling, an elliptical portion comprising that over the patella may be removed. This, which is a matter of choice in most cases, becomes compulsory when this area of skin is the seat of a sinus. By whatever incision the anterior aspect of the joint has been exposed, the next step should be to divide the connections of the vasti and rectus femoris with the upper part of the capsule, so as to allow of exposing the upper limit of the suprapatellar pouch. The more common procedure of sawing across tlie patella, or of dividing the ligamentum patelke, and immediately opening the cavity of the joint, is to be deprecated, both because it makes it more difficult to define the upper pouch, and because it exposes the wound from the outset to tuberculous infection. The suprapatellar pouch is then dissected off' the femur, in front and