LIVER—TROPICAL, PARASITIC, AND OTHER DISEASES 515 strongly commended, as early operation is everything, and the despatch of a patient with a liver abscess by train, native cart, or other rude conveyance to the nearest large hospital, where laparotomy may be done with fair prospect of success, may mean rupture of the abscess into the peritoneum or elsewhere with fatal results. Independently, however, of appliances, of assistance, of nursing, etc., the writer agrees with the verdict on this subject come to by all those present at the section of Tropical Diseases at Ipswich, and they re- presented some of the best of our tropical practitioners: the operation by incision is unnecessary in its severity, and is attended by less favourable results than operation by trocar and cannula. Pylephlebitis—Portal Thrombosis Adhesive Thrombosis . . . .515 Suppurative Thrombosis . . .518 Pathological Considerations . . 518 Signs and Symptoms . . .519 Diagnosis and Prognosis . . .519 Treatment . . . . .519 A. Adhesive Thrombosis op the Portal Vein.—Obstruction of the portal vein may be caused by coagula developing in the capillary distribution of the portal vein within the liver, in the trunk of the vein or its main branches, or in the radicles of the portal vein anywhere in the gathering area of the vessel. 1. Coagula of Blood commencing in the Capillaries of the Portal Vein within the Liver. —This is by far the most common starting- point of portal obstruction resulting in adhesive phlebitis. The coagula having formed in the portal capillaries within the liver extend back- wards to the small venous trunks, and ulti- mately may completely or partially block the main trunk of the portal vein itself. The causes of the primary coagula may be— (a) Deficient cardiac power, due to thrombosis of the pulmonary artery or other cardiac lesion, to pulmonary disease or other causes of blood stasis in the circulation generally or the portal circulation in particular. The obstruction in the portal vein may develop a short time before death, or it may appear only as the patient is dying. The causes of obstruction of this nature are usually associated with lesions of a fatal nature affecting the thoracic viscera, so that the signs and symptoms induced are but of classic interest clinically. The coagula in such cases will be found of a reddish-black colour, evidently of recent formation, completely filling the lumen of the vein, but readily detachable from the wall. The abdominal viscera will be found deeply congested, with frequent ecchymoses, and with a quantity of serous effusion tinged red in the peritoneal cavity in cases of some standing. (b) Cirrhosis of the liver is the commonest cause of adhesive portal thrombosis. The contractile nature of the fibrous deposit in the liver in cirrhosis leads to obstruction and exclusion of the portal capillaries and the consequent formation of coagula within their channels. The coagula once formed tend to increase by deposit and accretions upon their surfaces until the venous branches and ultimately the main trunk of the portal vein itself are blocked. The coagula in cirrhosis may be and generally are slowly deposited, as may be gathered by a study of the thrombosis post-mortem. The earlier-formed coagula are found frequently laminated in structure in- dicative of gradual deposit, or to consist of brownish masses firm in consistence and even organised into an embryonic connective tissue. Associated with the older thrombi are more recent coagula which may extend into the lumen of the larger veins as semi-solid coagula. The whole thrombus becomes adherent to the vein wall, and the inner aspect of the vein loses its gloss and appears corrugated and injected. The whole thickness of the vein becomes thickened and swollen. The connective tissue around the vein is involved in the inflammatory change, so much so that it becomes adherent to the circumferential structures. The obstruc- tion may be even so gradually developed that the portal vein or its main tributaries become varicose or dilated. (c) Cancerous deposit in the liver may give rise to a form of adhesive portal thrombosis; but the affection, in contradistinction to that which occurs in cirrhosis, is usually of a limited character, and the thrombus is a mere coagula- tion usually, although the cancerous material may even invade the lumen of the vein itself. (d) Inflammatory affections of the liver, more especially those that end in suppuration, may give rise to thrombosis of the portal capillaries. The thrombi formed in this connection are liable to break down or become foci for further purulent deposit. Thrombosis from liver ab- scess is not, however, a common occurrence. 2. Thrombosis arising from lesions aff"ecting the trunk of the vein or its main tributaries occasionally occurs. (a) Dilated bile ducts in the lesser omentum may cause chronic inflammatory thickening in the surrounding tissues, to such an extent that the trunk of the portal vein may be incorporated in the fibrous mass and become thereby compressed and constricted. The altered nutrition of the vein wall leads also to alteration and thickening of its several coats, rendering them indurated or even semi- cartilaginous in consistence. In consequence of these changes the calibre is narrowed, laminated coagula are formed within its lumen, and a dilated and even varicose condition may obtain throughout the radicles and large