LICHEN 409 held with regard to this. One, that Hebra con- fused with lichen planus a disease particularised by Devergie and known as pityriasis rubra pilaris. It is true that Hebra did not formulate an account of this complaint in separate form, but it is probably an error to hold that this ail- ment comprises all cases of Hebra's lichen ruber acuminatus. There are many circumstances which render this idea unlikely. The name conveys a good conception of the general features. Thus the fine, dry, white scales, so abundant in some cases, make good the pity- riasis ; beneath these is found a substratum of diffuse and unusual redness; while pilaris indicates that the hair system is chiefly im- plicated. It may commence by the formation of dry patches on the palms or soles, or with flaky seborrhcea of the scalp or face. But in other examples the peculiar papules may appear primarily on the trunk or limbs. These are conical, from a pin-head to a hemp-seed in size, red, hard, and arid, showing a broken hair in the centre, surrounded by a species of horny collar dipping down into the follicle. They are, indeed, like lichen spinulosis, more widely distributed, but set with great regularity at intervals very nearly exact. With an increase in number they become crowded together so as to lose their obvious individuality. The skin then feels thickened and immobile, looks reddish or yellowish, and is covered with an investment of scales, either fine and branny, or massed into the semblance of a coating of plaster or lime, but without trace of moisture or oozing. As a rule, isolated papules may be discovered at the edges of the thickened areas, but the eruption may be so generalised that the papular element is wholly or all but wholly concealed. Should the epidermic accumulation be removed by oil-packing, then dull brownish-red papules, not altogether unlike those in lichen planus, are disclosed. A special characteristic is the occurrence of papules corresponding to the hairs on the dorsum of the first and second phalanges of the fingers. The nails are usually attacked, are greyish and striated, while beneath them a soft concretion forms like rush pith. The face is often covered with minute scales and seborrhoeic accretions; the integument is dry and stretched, giving rise to ectropion. The course of the disease is subacute or chronic, with no evident constitu- tional symptoms, the general health being well preserved throughout. It may last for years, with temporary aggravations and remissions. But Unna and von During have met with cases, especially in an epidemic which occurred in Hamburg, which they think approximate more closely to Hebra's conception of lichen ruber. They state that it may attack persons apparently in good health ; more commonly it is ushered in by feverishness, headache, and depres- sion. Locally there is an erythroderma at first limited and transitory, later spreading widely. Then small, red, hard, conical, glancing papules, which are chiefly seated at hairs, but may occur apart from these, develop. Many bear a scale. They may mass themselves into patches, with infiltration of the skin and pigmentation. The nails are seldom affected, but the hair falls off. The itching is intense; there is sleeplessness, loss of appetite, emaciation, and weakness. The disease is a severe one, and has ended fatally. Reviewing the question, Brooke thinks that there may be from time to time outbursts of this lichen neuroticus, as Unna terms it, and Hebra drew his picture either from one of these, or he confused the three ailments together, work- ing as he did in the early days of dermatology. There is still, however, another rare disease which has so far not been exactly allocated. To it Unna has provisionally attached the name of Parakeratosis variegata, and several instances have come under my notice. The disease is an eminently chronic one, and may last very many years. There are at first minute papules, very little elevated above the surface, which arrange themselves in lines. In colour they are a dull crimson red, but have little if any of the burnish of those of lichen planus. Gradually they arrange themselves so as to form a kind of meshwork, so that the skin shows a mottled appearance, white spaces enclosed by crimson- red boundaries. There may be slight desqua- mation. All the body, face included, becomes affected, and the mottling gets less pronounced as the white areas grow redder, till the surface is of a patchy plum colour. The skin becomes thinned, and the hairs wax scantier and scantier everywhere. Itchiness is present in some, not complained of in others; but there is great chilliness. In one case after a duration of very many years soft excrescences or tumours formed here and there over the body, in appearance not unlike those of mycosis fungoides. Some of these bi-oke down into spongy ulcers, secreting a serous fluid, which only slowly healed; others, after persisting for a time, were absorbed. Though the patient was not capable of much exertion, his health was pretty good and his mind unclouded. It occurs both in males and females, and commences in adult life. One cannot yet speak definitely of its termination. Like lichen planus it seems not to attack the nails, but unlike it it involves the face and scalp. Pathology.—In relation to the pathology of lichen planus no micro-organism has so far been held responsible for its causation. Tlie special changes are superficial, involving the epithelial layers, and mainly the papillary portion of the corium. As already stated, the shape assumed depends very much on whether the sweat glands, hair follicles, or the general tissue of the integu- ment are principally or wholly implicated. The morbid changes have been shown by Torbk to begin in the neighbourhood of the blood-vessels