284 LABOUR, OPERATIONS—FORCEPS of application than the straight-handled forceps, was better adapted for allowing the normal descent of the head when traction was made at the ends of the recurved handles. But they Fig. 4. never came into general use, and their value was superseded when, in 1877, Professor Tarnier of Paris showed that the correct traction could be most certainly attained through ciirved rods, jointed to the heels of the blades and pulled on by a traction bar attached to their free extremities (see Fig. 5). Tarnier demonstrated that when traction was made through jointed rods with the necessary compensation curve. the direction in which at any moment traction should be made. Forceps constructed on this principle are found to be possessed of other advantages. The operator expends no energy Fig. 5. there was not only no loss of force and no misdirection of force, but further, that as the head changed its direction during its transit through the curved canal, this change in its direction would be indicated by a forward movement of the application handles. For these application handles, keeping the head fixed in the grasp of the blades by means of a screw placed close below the lock, were free to change their direction with the changing move- ments of the head, and so gave a guide to Fig. 6. in squeezing together the forceps handles; and as he pviUs simply on the traction bar, his muscular sensibility remains unimpaired, and he is better able to judge of the amoimt of force he is expending. There is no undue com- pression of the head in one direction, with tendency to elongation in another, so that the changes in configuration of the head more nearly resemble those seen in a head expelled by natural efforts. As the head is drawn down in the axis of the canal there is no un- necessary injurious pressure on the maternal structures, and as the head is not dragged against the symphysis pubis it is not so liable to elude the grasp of the blades. Rotation of the head in occipito-posterior cases will usually occur spontaneously under steady traction with the traction bar; where rotation fails, it can be aided by grasping the application handles (see Fig. 6). Indications for Use.—Indications for the use of the forceps arise either in delayed labours or in labours more immediately dangerous. A. Delayed Labours.—There is a fault in one or more of the factors of labour; and when two or even all the three factors are seen to be faulty, it is always right to seek to determine in which of them the fault originated and is most pronounced—whether (1) in the Powers, (2) in the Passages, or (3) in the Passenger.