200 LABOUR, MANAGEMENT OF ruptured, and the head is not coming into the OS to dilate it, there must be some further comphcation present, probably a small pelvis or an extra large head. If the condition of the patient does not call for any active treat- ment, wait until the os is large enough to admit of internal version being performed. Should the patient be showing signs of exhaustion, frequent pains, rapid pulse, etc., and the dila- tation being evidently delayed by absence of a dilator, put in a Champetier de Ribes' dilating bag, and, when the os is sufficiently large to allow of version, turn and bring down a leg. In a few cases where the face is originally lying in the mento-posterior position, the chin rotates into the hollow of the sacrum. It is, therefore, necessary in a mento-posterior case to do everything to make extension as com- plete as possible, so that the chin may be inclined to rotate forwards. Postural treatment is most valuable in causing extension. Place the woman on the same side as that to which the foetal back is lying; this produces an obliquity of the uterus which brings the direct intra-uterine pressure into a line impinging in front of the centre of the head. When there is a fully dilated os and the chin behind, try the postural treatment and wait two hours in the hope that the chin will rotate. If at the end of that time it has not done so, it is best to turn the chin to the front, put on fm-ceps, and deliver. This is done by putting the left hand into the vagina and the right on the abdomen; grasp the face and turn it the shortest way to bring the chin to the front; at the same time press the anterior shoulder in the same direction. If the chin cannot be rotated forward joer/bra- tio7i is the only resource. Brow An average-sized head cannot be delivered alive in this position. It is therefore necessary always to convert a brow presentation either into a vertex or a face. This can be done by completing flexion and producing a vertex, or by completing extension, and then dealing with the resultant face presentation as in the last section. (For mode of production and mechan- ism, see p. 183.) Before rupture of the membranes; by the same methods as recommended for transforming a face case into a vertex. If these fail, push up the occiput so as to try and get the chin down; if these manoeuvres fail, the method of procedure varies. (a) When the head is above the brim and the OS uteri partially dilated. If the pains are in- frequent, and the patient not exhausted, the best method is to perform internal version and bring down a foot. If the pains, however, are frequent, and the uterus seems in a state of tonic contraction, version implies risk of ruptur- ing the uterus, and forceps should be tried. Should these be vinsuccessful, perforation must be resorted to. (6) When the head is in the pelvic cavity, but is not advancing. As version would be dangerous to the mother, forceps must be tried if the head is small. A strong pull will most probably extract the child. If the pains are very strong, and labour has lasted some time, the head is in all probability large, and if this is the case the forceps will fail to deliver the head. Try first with the forceps, and if the head does not advance, perforate. PoDALic Presentations The management of pelvic presentations, whether breech, knee, or foot, is practically the same. (For cause and mechanism, see p. 184.) In these cases the prognosis is usually good for the mother, but an increased risk to the child. The duration of labour averages the same as in vertex presentation, but with a full-timed child the process occupies a longer time. The low average is accounted for by so many breech presentations occurring in premature infants. It must also be borne in mind that the predispos- ing factors for the malpresentation are present, and sometimes require special treatment, and imply additional risks. The diagnosis of breech presentations shoidd be made ovit entirely from abdominal palpation, and thus the possibility of rupturing the mem- branes during a pain is avoided. It is well to tell the patient's friends that the child is not presenting in the usual way, and that this circumstance may possibly delay labour and entail additional risk to the child. If the case is seen early enough, i.e. before rupture of the membrane, and while the breech is movable, the question arises whether it would not be an advantage to transform the podalic into a cephalic presentation. This point must only be decided after a full appreciation of the fact that in some conditions a podalic lie is preferable to a cephalic one. Thus in placenta prmvia to turn and bring down a foot is the recognised treatment, and in slight cases of pelvic contraction delivery of the after- coming head is more easily accomplished than the head coming first. If these indications are not present, there is no reason why the child should not be turned by external version. The best time to do this is when labour has commenced. After doing so, apply a tight binder to keep the child in its new position. If the breech presentation is to be allowed to remain, the treatment varies in the various stages. First Stage.—The only treatment here, as in all cases of abnormal presentation, is to preserve the membranes as long as possible. Keep the patient lying down to prevent undue straining,