LEUCOCYTOSIS 405 the hcetnatoblastic type which occurs after hjemorrhage.i) We may add that the arrange- ments in the marrow are such as to bring the leucocytes in it directly under the influence of any substance circulating in the blood, and at the same time are such as to admit their ready passage from the marrow into the blood. To put the matter shortly, then, local suppuration is due to agencies exerting positive chemiotaxis on the finely granular leucocytes. When these substances are absorbed in such quantities as to influence the cells in the marrow, then a blood leucocytosis occurs. As we have already stated, the mechanism of the eosinophile leucocytosis is in all probability of the same nature, the eosinophile leucocytes being derived from the eosinophile myelocytes. We can therefore understand that in the various diseases the factor determining the leucocytosis is not the high temperature, nor even the extent of inflammatory change per se, but the presence in the blood of substances which exert positive chemiotaxis on the finely granular leucocytes. According to this view, also, it is at once clear how that in practically every case where there is an extensive inflam- mation, or, more accurately, an extensive emi- gration of these cells, a leucocytosis is present, and it is also equally intelligible how in various toxic diseases a similar leucocytosis occurs without any local inflammatory change. In diseases such as typhoid, malaria, etc., where there is no increase of the finely granular cells, there is, in all probability, an absence of sub- stances which exert positive chemiotaxis. There are, therefore, two chief changes brought into play, viz. : (1) the emigration from the bone- marrow ; and (2) increased formation in the bone-marrow. With regard to the condition in which the number of finely granular leucocytes is below the normal, our information is of a less definite character; but the possible factors may, however, be said to be the following:— (1) There may be structural change in the bone-marrow leading to diminished formation of these cells. This is possibly the condition in some varieties of anaemia. (2) In certain diseases, e.g. in typhoid, the fall in the number of leucocytes may be due to an increased breaking-down of the leucocytes without a compensatory addition of leucocytes to the blood, which, as we have stated, is brought about by chemiotaxis. (3) In conditions at- tended usually by leucocytes, e.g. pneumonia, septicaemia, etc., the occurrence of a leucopenia may depend upon various circumstances. Ex- cessive emigration into the tissue, an extensive breaking-down of leucocytes in the blood and spleen, a failure of the bone-marrow to keep up the supply, and possibly an accumulation of leucocytes in the various organs in coagula in ' For a further statement of these views see Brit. Med. Journ., 1898, il p. 604. the heart, etc., may be involved, but it is to be noted that all these factors indicate a condition of gravity. Thus it is intelligible how the re- placement of leucocytosis by leucopenia without improvement in the symptoms constitutes a grave omen. It is not, however, the diminution in the number of leucocytes in itself, but the condition bringing it about, which is the important element. On the other hand, the presence and continuance of leucocytosis in the various diseases indicate at least that there is no interference with the natural response to the demand for increased leucocyte supply. It will be apparent from what we have said that no simple rule of universal application can be given as to the significance of leucocytosis. One must know the conditions of the leucocytes usually found in each disease running a natural course; such information is of importance in diagnosis provided there be no complications. When, however, the diagnosis is established, deviations in the conditions of the leucocytes from that usually present may be of aid in prognosis, and of these deviations the most important is the disappearance of the leuco- cytosis, or the appearance of leucopenia, without general improvement. We repeat again that mistakes are liable to arise if an application of various hard and fast rules is attempted. It is only by an intelligent con- sideration of the conditions present, in view of the facts established with regard to the various diseases, that the condition of the leucocytes aids the diagnosis and prognosis. There is no doubt, however, that, employed in this manner, examination into this condition is an important addition to our methods of clinical observation. Leucoderma or Leucodermia. —Defective pigmentation of the skin, congenital (albinism) or acquired (vitiligo), causing white spots, bands, or patches; achromatosis. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics (Caused hy Climatic Conditions, Leucodermia); Skin, Pig- MBNTAEY AFFECTIONS OP (Disappearance of Melanin, Leucodermia). Leucokeratosis Mucosae Oris. —The disease of the mouth known also as ichthyosis lingualis, as leukoplakia buccalis, and as buccal psoriasis. See Tongue (Inflammatory/ Affections, Leukoplakia). Leu CO in a. — A corneal opacity, milky- white in colour, due to preceding ulceration or inflammation or injury. See Cornea (Eesults of Ulcerative Keratitis). LeuCOmaineS. — Animal alkaloids formed by metabolic processes during life by the tissues, such as creatin, adenine, sper- mine, and xanthin; they are contrasted with ptomaines which are developed in dead bodies. See Alkaloids.