LABOUR, DIAGNOSIS AND MECHANISM 181 does, and so does not so soon come under the influence of the pelvic floor. In the case of the chin being behind, rotation forwards takes place later in face presentations than rotation for- wards of the occiput in occipito-posterior vertex cases. Moulding takes place with more difficulty than in vertex presentations, for the whole hind- head has to be depressed on to the back of the neck. This means more delay in the case of a closely-fitting head and pelvis. The positions of face cases are four, and are named according to the direction of the chin. They are :— 1st, or right mento-posterior. The long diameter of the face is in the right oblique diameter of the brim. This is called the first position, since it is derived from the first vertex position by extension. 2nd, or left mento-posterior, in a similar way from the second vertex. 3rd, or left mento-anterior, from the third vertex. 4th, or right mento-anterior, from the fourth vertex. In each of these cases the forehead in the face presentation lies in the place occupied by the occiput in a vertex presentation. It will be easy to remember the relations of the corresponding positions of the vertex and face if it be kept in mind that the back of the child looks in the same direction whether the case be one of face or vertex. It may again be stated for the sake of clear- ness, that although in naming the positions the forehead takes the place of the occiput, the chin represents the occiput in the mechanical relations of the process. Diagnosis and Mechanism First Face Position.—Right Mento-jiosterior. —This, being derived from the commonest vertex presentation, is naturally the commonest position of the face. Diagnosis.—On abdominal examination the back of the child is found lying to the mother's left; the limbs are rather prominent on the right side. There is a sharp angle between the back and the occiput. The foetal heart, if it is heard, is most easily audible on the same side as the limbs, namely, the right. This is, of course, due to the extension of the neck and the upper part of the thorax, which makes them lie near to the uterine wall, since the convexity of the foetal trunk is now on the anterior surface. On vaginal examination, if the os is sufficiently dilated, some part of the face is usually felt, most commonly the orbital and glabellar region. The bridge of the nose is traced backwards and upwards (in the ordinary obstetric position) to the mouth, where the alveolar ridges are felt, and beyond this the chin. The right cheek is anterior. MecJianism.—The head passes through the brim in the right oblique diameter, becoming slightly more extended, and the chin impinges on the pelvic floor. The child can now descend farther only by rotation of the chin forwards, for its neck is as far extended as possible, and the tension of its curved axis is very considerable. It thus comes to have the relation to the curve of the axis of the parturient canal that an elastic rod, whose natural curve was one with the concavity backwards, would have to a tube Fig. 31.—Meclianisni iii tust face inesentation. The curved arrow shows the direction of the chin-rotation. containing it whose curve was a forwardly con- cave one. In this case, if the tube allows of a certain amount of movement on its axis on the part of the rod, and there is little friction, the rod will rotate on its axis until it lies with its curve coinciding with that of the tube ; that is, with both their concave sides facing the same way. It will readily be seen that in the case of the foetus the tendency will be for it to come to lie with its chin forwards, so as to relax the tension of the over-extended head and thorax. The chin will be guided by the slope of the right half of the pelvic floor forwards and downwards till it appears at, and escapes from, the under surface of the pubic arch. This tendency of the chin to come forwards is less opposed by the shape of the pelvis than in the case in those positions of the vertex where the occiput lies behind; for the length of the face is less than the occipito-frontal diameter, and it can turn through the transverse diameter of the cavity without difficulty. The chin then rotates through three-eighths of a circle, and the face comes to lie in the aiitero-posterior diameter of the pelvic outlet. The angle between the chin and the neck now "hitches" under the pubic arch—to use a convenient but rather incorrect expression—and the bulk of the head is pushed forwards by the pelvic floor, pro- ducing a movement of flexion. The face, fore- head, vertex, and occiput successively clear the perineum, and the head is born, the chin