446 LIVER, DISEASES OF parenchymatous nephritis; but it would be in- correct to assume that they are different mani- festations of a process that is essentially one and the same. Etiology.—Age.—It is commonest between the ages of twenty and thirty, and is rare after forty, thus contrasting with common cirrhosis, in which the average age is about forty-eight years. A number of cases are met with in young children; Gilbert and Fournier have described a special juvenile type. Sex.—In children the incidence of the disease falls equally on the two sexes; but apart from the juvenile cases, it appears that males are more often attacked. In Schachmann's 26 cases only 4 were females. Heredity.—The disease is sometimes met with in several members of one family when exposed to the same conditions. In Brahmin infants around Calcutta a form of cirrhosis described as biliary is very common, and is especially apt to attack members of the same family ; thus, as many as 14 children of the same parents have died of it one after another. In this country Dreschfeld has met with the disease in two brothers, and Osier has had a similar experience in America. It is interesting to notefthat in other members of the same family, who have no other manifest signs of the disease, the spleen may be found to be enlarged ; this is analogous to the loss of knee-jerk in apparently healthy members of a family containing some children affected with hereditary ataxia. Alcohol.—The antecedents of patients with hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis sometimes include heavy drinking, but there is no reason to regard alcoholism as related to the disease in the same way as it is to common cirrhosis. It may safely be said that alcoholic excess does not protect against biliary cirrhosis, but on the contrary disposes to infection by reducing the resisting power of the body as a whole, and of the liver in particular. In the case of biliary cirrhosis in Brahmin infants, alcohol can play no part. Of two brothers whose cases were recorded by Dreschfeld, one was a hard drinker, while the other was temperate. Boix has recently put forward the view that the infection is introduced into the body in water, and it has been thought that cold and damp houses favour the occurrence of the disease. Malaria in like manner has been an ante- cedent condition in some cases, but in the great majority of instances this can be put out of court. There is no evidence that syphilis causes the disease. The disease has been noticed to start after typhoid fever (Boinet) in a few instances. Hanot originally regarded the initial lesion as being a catarrhal inflammation of the small bile ducts. Such a lesion might originate in the minute ducts, and be due to a poison reaching them by the blood, as in experimental poisoning by toluylenediamine; in other words, be a de- scending cholangitis. The condition of the liver would then be a local manifestation of a general infection. In favour of this infective origin for hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis are the following facts:— (1) The frequency of fever. (2) The considerable splenic enlargement which indeed may precede, or be more marked than that of the liver. (3) The existence of leucocytosis. (4) Granular enlargement not only in the portal fissure, but sometimes in distant parts of the body. The enlargement of the spleen, w^hich may precede and be more prominent than the hepatic enlargement, is best explained as due to an infective agent in the blood, which, at the same time that it leads to changes in the liver, settles down in the spleen, and there multiplies and produces poison. It is possible that the poison thus poured into the portal vein sets up a secondary portal cirrhosis on the top of the already existing biliary cirrhosis, and thus ac- counts for the mixed type of cirrhosis so often found histologically in the livers of long-standing cases of biliary cirrhosis. The alternative view is that hypertrophic biliary cirrhosis is due to a local infection of the bile ducts from the duodenum—an ascending cholangitis. According to this theory it would be analogous to broncho-pneumonia following bronchitis of the larger tubes. Gilbert and Fournier regard it as an ascending infection from the intestine, and due to the prolonged action of the colon bacillus. The enlargement of the spleen is regarded as secondary to the local and primary infection of the liver, and due to micro-organisms or their poisons absorbed from the infected bile ducts. Against the view that it is an ascending infection might be urged the comparative infre- quency of dyspepsia as an antecedent symptom, and the fact that a catarrhal condition of the duodenum is not found at the autopsy. The fact that the spleen is sometimes found to be enlarged before the liver, and may even be larger than the liver, is also against this theory, and in favour of the pi'imary factor being a general hsemic infection. On the whole, it seems more probable that hypertrophic biliaiy cirrhosis is due to a hsemic infection of a chronic nature leading to inflam- matory changes in the liver, than that it is an ascending infection of the bile ducts from the duodenum. Congenital obliteration of the bile ducts (vide vol. iii. p. 372), which is associated with very marked monolobular cirrhosis of the liver, can be regarded as due to a poison circulating in the blood, which, when excreted into the small