32 INVALID FEEDING drink from one to two pints of hot water (110° to 120° F.) at one and a half hours before each meal, and half an hour before retiring. If the water is drunk slowly the stomach will not be distended, and the patient will not experience any sense of discomfort. If plain hot water is nauseating, it can be made more palatable by the addition of sal volatile, ginger, or lemon juice. When there is intense thirst, a little chloride of calcium or nitrate of potash will make the water a much better thirst-quencher. If constipation is present, a tea-spoonful of magnesium sulphate can be added to the water. When the strictness of the diet is first relaxed, the following rice scones, preferably taken hot, are very palatable and easy of digestion. Rice ScoTies.—Boil a teacupful of whole rice for 2| hours. To the rice add quarter of a tea- cupful of sifted flour, a tea-spoonful of baking- powder, and sufficient water to make a thick batter; then stir in a pinch of salt and the white of one egg well beaten up. Pour the mixture into well-greased cake-tins and bake in an oven for thirty minutes. To be eaten with butter and more salt if desired. Oysters are a welcome addition to the mono- tony of the diet, and may be prepared as follows:— Oysters.—Panned.—Take six deep-sea oysters, place them in a colander and pour cold water over them. Drain for ten minutes. Place the oysters in a very hot iron pan ; add salt, pepper, a small piece of butter, and a tea-spoonful of meat stock. Cook for a few minutes, and serve the oysters garnished with a thin slice of lemon. Broiled.—Take six large oysters. Lay them on a board and dry them, season with salt and cayenne pepper. Have a gridiron thoroughly heated; place the oysters on the gridiron and brown them on both sides. Place the oysters on a very warm plate, and pour round them a little heated beef juice and a little melted butter. lnva.Sion.—The onset of a disease {e.g. smallpox) or of a physiological process {e.g. menstruation), also the extension of a morbid process to an unaffected part of the body. Inversion.—The turning of a hollow viscus inside out {e.g. inversion of the uterus); also the incomplete development of an organ, giving it the appearance as if it were turned inside out {e.g. inversion of the bladder) ; also the transposition of parts {e.g. inversion of the viscera, or heterotaxy). See Labour, Injuries TO THE Generative Organs {Acute Inversion of the Uterus); Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Malformations, Ectopion Vesicae) ; Teratology {Heterotaxy or Transposition of the Viscera). Invertase.—The soluble ferment of yeast, capable of converting sucrose into glucose. InvertinS.—Enzymes capable of splitting up sugars, e.g. Invertase {q.v.). See Enzymes ; Physiology, Protoplasm {Enzymes or Zymins). Involucrum.—A sheath, capsule, or in- vestment of an organ or part, especially the sheath of new osseous tissue round a sequestrum of necrosed bone. See Bone, Diseases op {Su2)- purative Osteomyelitis, Repair). Involution.—The folding in of developing parts, especially membranes, in Embryological processes {see Embryology) ; the return of an organ or part to its normal size and characters after a temporary hypertrophy {see Puerperium, Physiology, Involution of the Uterus); also the retrograde changes in the organs in old age. IOCla.lbin.—An organic iodine or iodo- proteid compound, consisting of a reddish powder, almost tasteless, insoluble in water and alcohol but soluble in alkalies; said to be readily assimilable and free from the objectionable features of the inorganic salts. Dose—5-10 grs. Iodic Acid Test.—A chemical test for morphine. See Morphinomania and Allied Drug Habits. Iodides, '^'ee Iodine. Iodine. 8ee also Drug Eruptions {Iodine and the Iodides); Kidney, Surgical Affections OF {Actinomycosis, Treatment); Liver, Diseases OF {Cirrhosis, Treatment); Pharmacology ; Purpura {Symptomatic); Syphilis {Treatment); Toxicology {Iodine).—Iodum. Symbol, I; atomic weight, 125'9. Obtained from seaweeds and from mineral iodides and iodates. It occurs as small dark-coloured rhombic prisms, which give off a violet vapour when heated. It is soluble 1 in 5000 of water, and readily in alcohol, ether, chloroform, and solutions of potassium iodide. Preparations—1. Liquor lodi Fortis. Strength, llf per cent of iodine. Corresponds to Linimentum lodi, B.P. 1885. 2. Tinctura lodi. Strength, 2-^- per cent. Dose—2-5 m. 3. Unguentum lodi. Strength, 4 per cent. Iodine is a very powerful antiseptic and irri- tant. The latter action is the one chiefly made use of in medicine. It is applied to the skin as a counter-irritant in pleurisy, in rheumatism, in arthritic affections of various kinds, in periostitis, in chilblains, in chronic glandular enlargements, in pleurodynia, and in a host of conditions, too numerous to mention, where an active local application is required. For most patients the liquor will be found to be too strong in effect, and the tincture too weak. A mixture con- taining equal parts of each is a favourite application ; but wide variations in reaction are observed, and whatever preparation is employed, it should be used sparingly at first until the individual susceptibility has been ascertained.