344 LARYNX, CHRONIC INFECTIVE DISEASES those points which relate to the special con- dition, leaving it to be understood that suitable general treatment must be carried out. One of the first questions that usually con- fronts us in connection with phthisis is whether the patient should be sent to winter abroad. In selecting a climate for a case of laryngeal phthisis, as a rule, three points should be considered, viz.: (1) warmth and sunshine; (2) the air shduld have a degree of humidity; (3) there should be little dust. As examples of places fulfilling these indications may be men- tioned Madeira, Pisa, Capri, and the Canary Islands. It was formerly supposed that high altitudes were always contraindicated where the larynx had become involved, but, as pointed out by Clinton Wagner, this is not always the case. The effect, however, should be carefully watched if the experiment be tried. Under certain circumstances it may be desirable to place the patient in one of the institutions which are now springing up in this country, and which have long existed in Germany, e.g. Falkenstein, Reiboldsgriin, Gorbersdorf, where the open-air treatment is carried out on scientific lines, and where the necessary local remedies can also be employed. As to general hygiene and regimen — the voice should be saved as much as possible, and a nourishing, wholesome diet given, while smok- ing should be altogether forbidden indoors. At the same time, a cigar or pipe smoked in the open air may usually be permitted. When dys- phagia is a marked symptom the administra- tion of all nourishmeiit often becomes difficult. In such cases it will be found that soups (thickened with arrowroot or an equivalent), raw eggs and milk, calf-foot jelly, and sometimes ices, will be acceptable. A little culinary in- genuity will suggest food of a suitable con- sistence, i.e. semisolid, and of sufficient variety, while where cold is well borne nutritious materials may be incorporated with ices. Wolfenden found that patients in whom dysphagia is severe may be enabled to swallow in comparative com- fort by lying on the face with the head over a bed or couch, and sucking up food from a basin held below the mouth and connected with it by a tube. It is sometimes, however, necessary to resort to local anaesthetics, such as cocaine, 10 to 20 per cent applied with a spray or brush, and eucaine. A solution of from 20 to 30 per cent of menthol in paroleine may also be employed for this purpose, by syringing it into the larynx. When painful deglutition is due to ulceration, orthoform blown on to the affected part is often very successful, the anaesthesia sometimes lasting for many hours. Local treatment applied to the larynx with the object of arresting or curing the disease should be adapted to the condition of the patient. Thus, if the pulmonary disease be advanced and the patient weak and emaciated, it is well to avoid all active treatment of a painful kind. Volatile substances, such as balsam of Peru, may then be employed, added to hot water and the steam inhaled, or a spray of from 5 to 20 per cent of menthol in paroleine may be used. As pointed out by Rosenberg, however, this drug is best used by means of a syringe with which a drachm or more of a 20 per cent solution in oil may be injected into the larynx. The insufflation of antiseptic powders which may be mixed with orthoform or morphia, if these be indicated by the presence of pain, may be employed in persons who are no longer sufficiently robust to tolerate more active treatment. Equal parts of boracic and iodo- form have been recommended, and Lublinski has had satisfactory results from iodol. There can, however, be no doubt that lactic acid, as first suggested by Krause, is the best local remedy we possess. Its great efficacy in ulceration is admitted by all, but there can be no doubt that it is also beneficial in infiltrations. Lactic acid should be first used in 20 per cent solution, but gi'adu- ally this should be strengthened, until, if well tolerated, it is employed in a strength of 80 per cent. It is best applied by means of a cotton- wool holder, and should be rubbed well into the parts. As a general rule, when the stronger solutions are used several days should elapse between the applications. Various other active remedies have been sug- gested, and no doubt in some cases they may act well—e.g. sulforicinic solution of carbolic, 30 per cent (Ruault); oleaginous solution of creasote and menthol (Chappell); para-ortho and mono-chlorophenol (Simanowski, Spengler, and Hedderick), from 5 to 20 per cent dissolved in glycerine ; and concentrated solution of iodoform in equal parts of alcohol and ether, recommended by Newman as a spray. Of late years surgical treatment of laryngeal phthisis has come much into vogue and has given excellent results, especially in the hands of Continental authorities. It goes without saying that operative measures are only justi- fiable in patients whose strength has been well maintained and in whom the pulmonary disease is not actively advancing. The objects aimed at are (1) the removal of infiltrations; (2) curetting ulcerated surfaces. Heryng may justly claim to have been a pioneer in this matter, and his instruments, together with the double curette of Krause, are generally employed. Some laryngologists, however, use the electric cautery, and even electrolysis. Schmidt formerly recommended multiple inci- sions followed by the application of lactic acid, while he was also an advocate of tracheotomy in certain cases. Submucous injections of lactic acid, creasote diluted with oil, etc., have also been advocated. In suitable cases, how-