INVALID FEEDING 7 a favourite with most invalids : a useful diluent for milk. Toast Water 1 slice crust of bread. 1 pint cold water. Method.—The crust of bread is better than slice, as it does not turn sour so soon. Toast well on both sides until dry and nicely browned—not burnt. Have the fresh cold water in a jug, and break the toast into pieces and put into it. (If the water is poured on to the toast, it would be thick and not clear.) Cover the jug, and let the toast remain soaking until the water is the colour of sherry wine. Strain and serve cold. This makes a refreshing drink with a little lemon juice added, and is also a useful diluent for milk, breaking up the curd. If the patient is troubled with symptoms of acidity, an alkali such as carbonate of magnesia, as much as will lie on a sixpence, or a third part of lime-water may be added. This neutralises the acidity, and also prevents clotting. Diarrhoea coming on while patient is on a milk diet is usually due to curd, and the above methods will usually stop it. The following can also be tried :— Flavo^tred Milk I oz. ground rice. I pint milk. Sugar. A few pieces of cinnamon. Mix the milk with the ground rice, pour into a small lined saucepan, allow it to simmer by the fire for half an hour. Do not let the milk boil over, and stir occasionally with a wooden spoon. Sweeten to taste. Add some little bits of cinnamon stick, and serve hot or cold. Rice, tapioca, and sago can be used in the same way. The flavouring can be varied with cloves or nutmeg. If constipation is present it can generally be overcome by the adding 3j of soda bicarbonate to the diluted milk, or by diluting some of daily allowance of milk with Vals or Vichy water. Whey.-—If milk is badly tolerated even after diluting, whey is often available, and can be made very palatable. It is a pleasant stimulant drink food; the milk sugar in it gives a certain food value, and this can be increased by the addition of one tea-spoonful or more of lactose added to the pint. The absence of curd makes it easily digestible. Whey can be made in the following ways:— Whey 1 pint new milk. 1 tea-spoonful of rennet (Mackay's is tasteless). Method.—Warm the milk in a basin to a lukewarm temperature (blood-heat, the tem- perature of new milk), and stir in the rennet. Let it stand in a warm place about fifteen minutes, until the curd forms and the whey is quite clear. When cool, break up curd and strain off the whey through a piece of clean muslin. Lemon Whey \ pint milk. 1 table-spoonful lemon juice. Sugar to taste. Prepare as wine whey, using lemon juice instead of sherry wine. Time, five minutes. Wine Whey 1 gill of milk. ^ gill sherry wine. 1 lump of sugai". Rinse out saucepan ; put in milk and sugar, and bring to the boil. When boiling, add the wine and the milk will curdle. Let it boil again and strain through a piece of muslin. Cream Whey This can be added to the ordinary whey or to the wine whey. Add two table-spoonfids of cream to half pint of whey. Cream is most useful in cases where feeding up is required, due to its large quantity of fat. It may be added to whey to increase the nutritive value of infants' food when attempting to make an artificial mother's-milk. It is very largely used in invalid cookery and in the dietary of the aged to supply the place of oily fat food, and is added to soups, fish creams, blanc-manges, etc. Again, cream is of great use in the dietary of the diabetic, taking the place of milk and whey. Skim milk is an excellent bevei'age in pyrexial states where fresh milk is too rich. Butter i/«7A-.—This is slightly more digestible than ordinary milk. The lactic acid present shows there must be a diminution of lactose, and this makes it valuable (vol. ii. p. 358) in the thirst of diabetes. Koumiss—Fermented Mare's Milk.—This pre- paration has been used with a certain amount of success by consumptives in Russia. The secret of the cure is that the milk is slightly fermented, highly digestible, and large quantities can be taken without producing dyspepsia. The Russian mode of cure is to rise early and to take a glass of koumiss every half hour, with the exception of two hours preceding dinner and supper. Kephir is a similar product prepared in the following manner from cow's milk :— Kephir 3 gills new milk. One small piece sugar. J gill boiling water. German yeast size of a nut. Quantity for each pint bottle. Take the milk as new as possible. Fill the