408 LICHEN planus. Its lesions occur in two forms—as iso- lated papules, or when these become clustered into the patch, in which circumstances they undergo some modifications. The papules may be poly- gonal or round, pale, almost skin colour, or more typically crimson or bluish red. Their surface is hard and smooth, so as to impart a burnished appearance when viewed by oblique illumination. They may remain discrete, dis- pose themselves in lines, or from progressive increase in number may be so aggregated as to form patches. In both cases on subsidence they leave behind a degree of brown pigmenta- tion, sometimes an atrophic depression, or the surface of the patch grows rugose and warty. A peculiarity of lichen planus is polymorphism within certain limits, displayed by the papules themselves and in their mode of coalescence. Thus the colour varies from a pale to a crimson- red in the angular, in the round more iisually a bluish red, on the legs a dull purplish. The shape is determined partly by the surface lines of the skin, partly also by the situation; thus they are flatter when they form round a sweat gland, more acuminate at a hair follicle. At times the papule assumes an obtuse shape, having a convex rather than a plane summit; on the lower limbs especially their contour may be oval. Some exhibit a punctate depression in their centre, more on stretching show fine whitish lines within their structure. Though scaliness is not a feature of the isolated papule, it becomes pronounced on the patch, and this hyperkeratosis takes on even extreme pro- portions on the legs, where not infrequently a hard, grey, warty, veritably lichenous invest- ment may be observed (lichen verrucosus). The patch, however, may on the contrary be fairly smooth ; indeed, in some instances it much resembles a dry erythematous blotch, only it does not wholly fade on pressure. At other times it may show a species of cross-hatching, due to the approximation of angular papules. It is ciistomary to find isolated papules in the neighbourhood of a patch. Though the linear arrangement is the ordinary, a circular is not unknown. The elevation varies; on the fore- arms it is not great, is more evident on the back of the hand, and often considerable on the lower extremities, particularly about the shins. The pigmentation, too, differs. In some it is residual, not noticeable till the papule has been absorbed; in others there is decided dark stain- ing round a patch, or even a papule, and this where no arsenic has been administered. The situations affected are to some extent characteristic. Thus the face and scalp are avoided, while the wrists and flexor aspects of the arm, the inner side of the thighs, and the front of the leg are favoured. It may be limited to the scrotum, or to the penis or its immediate vicinity; but it occurs on any part of the trunk, pre-eminently where articles of dress press on the skin, as at the waist or where garters are worn. On the palms the papules are horny and may be smooth, but often by tearing through the dense epidermis cause it to look ragged. Parts of the palm may thus present a dry, cracked appearance. The nails seem never to be involved. On the tongue and buccal mucous membrane the tenderness of the investing layer and the moisture alters the aspect. Hence in place of definite papules there are milky-white spots or patches. Occasionally unexplained diarrhoea arises in course of lichen planus, and it has been surmised that this may be due to the eruption of lesions in some part of the intestinal tract. Nevertheless the general health seldom suff'ers. So few cases of lichen moniliformis described by Kaposi and von During have yet been encountered that its exact nature and its relationship to ordinary lichen planus are un- decided. Still, as papules such as those described and pigmentary macules, the result of their in- volution, were also perceptible, it would appear that this is but an extreme variant. The papules are fused into lines or elevated ridges, longitudinal in direction, and found chiefly on the throat or neck and flexor aspects of the limbs. The prominences so produced resembled strings of coral beads or elongated nodosities of keloid. The surface was glossy, brownish red in colour, and rather tender to pressure. Lichen planus may persist in a localised form, the chronic or commonest type, or advance slowly and erratically; but in some cases it pursues an acute course, invading the greater part of the covered portion of the body in a short time, and appearing as a symmetrical eruption. The papules are a more decided red, but are otherwise like those in the chronic variety. Itchiness may precede the formation of the papules. Its degree varies ; it may be trivial, or so intense as to preclude sleep. Both papules and patches are numerous, diffused over a wide area, and there is more distinct scaling, while pigmentation always supervenes. Though acute in its onset it may only leisurely fade. Recurrences may occur more than once. Whether treated or not the tendency is to disappear after a time, and this in the chronic and acute variety alike. One may with truth say that recovery is constant, but its date indefinite. The verrucous kind, whose seat par excellence is on the lower limbs, is peculiarly obstinate and offers marked resistance to treat- ment. While interspersed among the flat papules we may find some more or less acuminate; yet the disease described by Hebra as lichen ruber acuminatus, in which all the papules were pointed and the termination mostly a fatal one, unless arsenic were administered, has not so far been satisfactorily identified. Two views are