239 LABOUR, PRECIPITATE AND PROLONGED pelvic tumours. Sarcomata, especially osteo- sarcomata, sometimes completely block the pelvic canal. Fibromata grow from the peri- osteum ; they are seldom large, but may be large enough to obstruct labour. Secondary growths of cancer may occur in the pelvic bones. Hydatids may invade the pelvic bones, and form a tumour bulging into and narrowing the pelvic cavity, although I know not of a case in which such a tumour has obstructed labour. No detailed rules can be laid down for the treatment of cases of labour obstructed by a tumour; for the circumstances vary infinitely, according to the size, position, and nature of the tumour. All that can be said is, that if the pelvic space is so narrowed that a living- child certainly cannot be born, Csesarean section is generally indicated. This operation will effect the birth of a living child with less risk than that involved in dragging a mutilated child past a new growth. Faults in the Passenger Otherwise Laboxhr obstructed by Abnormalities in the Ovum Liquor Amnii (a) Excess of: Hydramnios or Poly- hydramnios . . . . .239 {b) Absence of: Oligohydramnios . . 240 (c) Early Escape of: Dry Labour . . 240 Membranes (a) Thinness of . . . . .241 (b) Toughness of . . . . .241 (c) Adhesion of, to Lower Uterine Segment. 241 Placenta Prolapse of . . . . . .241 Cord Abnormalities of . . . . .241 Child (a) Death of: Post-mortem Pigidity: Em- physema . . . . .242 (b) Large Size of: in Head Presentation . 242 In Breech Presentation ; Impacted Breech ..... 243 (c) Unusual Ossification of Cranium . 243 {d) Malformations and Disease of: Hydrocephalus and Encephalocele . 244 Spina bifida, Hydrothorax, Ascites, (Edema, Distended Bladder, etc.. Cystic Kidneys and other Tu- mours ..... 244 (e) Monstrosities: Acardiac . . . 245 Anencephalic . . 245 Exomphalic. . . 245 Conjoined tivins . . 245 Liquor Amnii (a) Excess of Liquor Amnii: Hydramnios, Polyhydramnios, or Hydrops Amnii.—For a complete description of this condition, see " Pregnancy, Pathology of." We consider it here merely as a complication of labour. Though the quantity of liq\ior amnii is, as a rule, between one and two pints, it is impossible to observe two or three hundred cases of labour without seeing instances in which the quantity rises to two or three quarts, and occasionally several gallons of fluid may be found in the uterus. But while labour in some women is not appreciably affected by a very considerable excess of liquor amnii, a moderate amount of distension of the uterus by fluid causes marked disturbance in the labours of others. We cannot therefore define hydramnios as a com- plication of labour, by any reference to the quantity of fluid present, but only by the alteration in the ordinary course of labour which is observed to occur. Suppose we see a woman who is undoubtedly in labour, but whose pains are weak, infrequent, and ineffec- tive. She complains of difficulty in breathing, and, perhaps, of nausea and vomiting. The abdomen is more distended than usual, and the whole abdominal swelling being dull on percussion, it is not partially due to flatus. If the distension were due to the presence of twins or to the complication of pregnancy by a fibroid tumour, palpation of the abdomen would reveal the presence of a solid body. If, however, there is fluctuation, it is necessary to distinguish between hydramnios, pregnancy complicated by ovarian or parovarian cyst, and pregnancy with ascites. The last named can be excluded by percussion with the patient in various positions ; and when a large cyst accompanies pregnancy, the uterine contractions which can be felt in one part of the abdomen are absent over another. The diagnosis of hydramnios during labour is thus much easier than the recognition of the same condition earlier in pregnancy. In making a forecast as to the result of a labour complicated by hydramnios, it is neces- sary to remember that such labours are gener- ally premature; that the foetus is generally ill- nourished or otherwise imperfect; and that, if not dead before labour begins, it often dies soon after birth. Further, as the foetus floats freely in an enlarged cavity, no definite lie is assumed, and malpresentation is accordingly frequent. The prognosis is thus bad for the child. The mother suffers but slight risk to life. The dis- tension of the uterus causes uterine inertia during all stages of labour. If left to nature there is a slow first stage, a slow or obstructed second stage, exhaustion, a risk of post-partum haemorrhage, and the attendant risk of sepsis. If treated by early evacuation of the liquor amnii, there follows, as a rule, the need for artificial dilatation for the cervix, which is pre- ferable to the risks to which the patient is ex- posed by delay. The prognosis for the mother is thus somewhat imfavourable, unless modified