321 LARYNX, EXAMINATION OF quietly through the mouth, so as to raise the palate and uvula away from the tongue. The back of the mirror being placed against the uvula, the whole palate should be raised upwards and backwards by a steady pressure. If the patient's throat is at all tolerant, the lower edge of the mirror may be allowed to rest on the back wall of the pharynx; but very often this will produce retching, and prevent an examination. When the mirror is in position it should be held steadily, while the handle is carried to the left angle of the mouth, so as to be out of the line of vision, and by very slightly raising or depressing the hand, so as to alter the inclina- tion of the mirror, the base of the tongue, epiglottis, and more or less of the laryngeal cavity should come into view. If the epiglottis is erect, we may at once get a view of the whole larynx and trachea. As a rule, however, it will be necessary to make the patient sing "eh" or "ee" in a slight falsetto, so as to raise the epiglottis and expose the larynx. The examination of the larynx should be conducted systematically, beginning with the vocal cords, whicli will at once strike the eye by their pearly white colour and their movement on phonation and inspiration. Note in addition to any change in colour, any thickening or irregularity of their edges, any breach of surface, or the presence of clumps or strands of mucus. During phonation observe if the cords come together in their whole length, with their edges tense and sharply defined. Be sure you see right to the anterior commissure where the cords meet, and follow them backwards to the vocal processes, which show as yellow spots, or are sometimes pinkish in colour in voice- users. Observe their position on quiet and deep inspiration, and see if the amount of abduction is normal and equal on the two sides. Special attention should be given to the posterior wall of the larynx, the inter- arytenoid space, which is so frequently the seat of pathological changes. It is best seen during deep inspiration. Look out for any thickening, irregularity of surface, or mucous crusts, con- ditions which interfere with the approximation of the arytenoids. Just above each cord notice the dark line running parallel to it, the opening to the ventricle, and immediately above that the rounded fold of mucous membrane, sharply defined below and sloping away above into the aryepiglottic folds, the ventricular band. Compare the two sides carefully and note any swelling, new growth, or ulceration. The aryepiglottic folds should then be inspected, following them downwards and backwards from the sides of the epiglottis to the arytenoid cartilages. Notice their delicate sharp edges above, especially on phonation, and the nodular thickenings corresponding to the cartilages of Wrisberg, and the small VOL. V capitula Santorini seated on the arytenoid cartilages. Observe the symmetry of the two sides, look out for any swelling or cedema, and watch the movements of the arytenoid cartilages on phonation and inspiration, care- fully comparing the freedom of movement of the two sides. The epiglottis should then be examined. It will be found to vary greatly in shape and position in different individuals. In some it is broad and bent forwards towards the tongue, so as to show its posterior surface only; in others it is narrow, folded laterally, and inclined back over the larynx, so that only the anterior surface is seen in the mirror. The anterior surface is yellowish pink in colour, and has large veins coursing over it; the edge is more distinctly yellow, and the posterior surface is pinkish red, deepening in colour towards the prominence at its base, the cushion of the epiglottis. The edge of the epiglottis should be thin and sharply defined. Notice if any thickening, oedema, or loss of substance of its edge is present, or any ulceration of the posterior surface. Next examine the base of the tongue, between the circumvallate papillae and the epiglottis, observing the amount of adenoid tissue present (lingual tonsil), and the numerous large, superficial veins, and conclude with a survey of the lower pharynx and of the pyriform sinuses which lie outside the larynx between the aryepiglottic folds and the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage. The colour of the laryngeal mucous membrane generally is a pale pink, like that lining the cheeks, while over the cartilages it becomes slightly paler, resembling that of the hard palate. It is, however, subject to rapid variations, and may change from very pale pink to deep red in the course of a laryngoscopic examination. To the beginner the partial inversion of the laryngeal image may cause a little confusion. The only inversion is antero-posteriorly; the epiglottis, which is seen in the upper part of the mirror, appearing farthest away, while the posterior wall, reflected in the lower part of the mirror, appears nearest the observer. Laterally there is no transposition; but as the observer sits facing the patient, what is left from the side of the patient is to the right of the observer, and vice versd. The chief difficulties in making a laryngo- scopic examination arise either from nervous apprehension on the part of the patient or from hyperaesthesia of the pharynx. The former, which is more common in women, is best over- come by assuring the patient that we are only going to make an examination and not to do anything, and by introducing the mirror for a brief space and withdrawing it again, even without seeing the larynx. A little patience and manoeuvring will soon attain our object, whilst any haste or impatience will only lead to failure.