425 LIQUOR CONCENTRATUS Liquor Concentratus.—A solution prepared by repeated percolation of a drug (powdered) with the addition of some alcohol to the distilled water (20 per cent); the official concentrated solutions are those of calumba, chiretta, cusparia, rhatany (krameria), quassia, rhubarb, sarsaparilla, senega, senna, and ser- pentary; and the dose of nearly all the con- centrated liquores is J to 1 fl. dr. (in the two exceptions the dose is larger). Liquor EpispastiCUS. — Blistering fluid. See Cantharides. Liquor FoliiCUli.—The fluid contained in a Graafian follicle, which escapes when the follicle ruptures and the ovum is expelled; liquor graafianus. See Fcetus and Ovum, Development of. Liquor Graafianus. See Liquor FOLLICULI. Liquor Hydrarg'yri Perchloridi. See Mercury {Hydrm-yyri Perchlorichim). Liquor Hydrog^enii Peroxidi. See Hydrogen Peroxide. Liquor iVIorgagni.—The fluid which exists, in small quantity, between the crystalline lens and the inner surface of the posterior capsule and between the lens and the capsular epithelium. Liquor Opii Sedativus.—Battley's solution. Liquor PancreatiS. — Pancreatic solution which has the power of converting starch into sugar, and albumen into peptone. Liquor Picis Carbon is.—Solution of prepared coal-tar. Liquor Sanguinis. — The blood plasma. See Blood. Liquorice.—Glycyrrhizse Radix. The roots and underground stems of Glycyrrhiza glabra, grown in Britain. Occurs in long cylindrical pieces, with a yellow fibrous appear- ance when peeled, and a sweet taste. It con- tains Glycyrrhizin, a yellow glucoside, A&imragin, and grape sugar. Preparations—1. Extractum Glycyrrhizse. Dose—5-20 grs. 2. Extractum Glycyrrhizse Liquidum. Dose—3. Pulvis Glycyrrhizse Compositus, containing senna, sulphur, and fennel. Dose—60-120 grs. Liquorice is employed chiefly as a flavouring agent to hide the taste of disagreeable medi- cines, such as cascara, aloes, and quinine. It forms a good basis for pills. It is sometimes used as a demulcent for sore throats. The compound powder is an excellent mild laxative, but it owes its properties to the senna and sulphur. Liriodendron Procerum. — The tulip tree, the bark of which has been employed as a substitute for cinchona in malaria and as a general tonic. LisdOOn varna. See Balneology {Great Britain and Ireland, Co. Clare); Mineral Waters [Sulphur). Lisfranc'S Amputation.—A tarso- metatarsal amputation, the metatarsal bones being disarticulated from the tarsal. See Am- putations {Loiver Extremity). Lisfranc'S Tubercle.—A roughened eminence on the anterior surface of the first rib near its upper border. LiSSauer'S Tract.—A tract of nerve fibres in the spinal cord between the apex of the posterior horn of grey matter and the surface of the cord. See Physiology, Nervous System (Spinal Cord, Conducting Paths). LiSSencepliaiy.—The condition of brain in which the convolutions are poorly developed (Gr. Ato-o-os, smooth). Listerine. — A proprietary preparation said to consist of benzoic and boric acids, thymol, eucalyptus, alcohol, etc.; a similar preparation is the American Liquor antisepticus. Listerism.—The antiseptic and aseptic treatment of wounds and technique of opera- tions ; so named after Lord Lister, who intro- duced it. See Aseptic Treatment op Wounds. Lister's Ointment.—A boric acid ointment containing white wax, paraffin, and almond oil, as well as boracic acid. Li til semi a.—The presence of uric acid and urates in excessive amount in the blood. See Liver, Diseases of [Functional, Lithcemia); Gout ; Hydropathy [Subacute and Chronic Diseases); Uric Acid. LithagOgue.—Having the power of ex- pelling calculi. Litharge.—Lead oxide. See Lead. LitliateS.—Salts of lithic or uric acid (Gr. a stone). See Lithium ; Uric Acid. Lithia.—Lithium oxide. See also Lithium. LithiasiS.—The formation of calculi in the urinary bladder, in the kidney, in the bile duct or gall bladder, in the pancreatic duct, in the lacrimal duct, under the prepuce, etc. See under the various organs and parts. Lithic Acid.—Uric acid, e.g. the lithic acid diathesis or lithsemia is the uric acid dia- thesis. See Uric Acid. Lit h iO-Pi perazi ne.—A combination of