KIDNEY 119 bladder may cause intermittent pyuria. The cystoscope is the best means of diagnosis. Treatment.—Medical.—The indications are to support the strength by tonics and to administer urinary antiseptics, such as boric acid, ammonium Ijenzoate, and salol. The operative treatment of the two classes described is diiTerent. In the " ascending" form the cause (stricture, etc.) must be attacked, the residual urine got rid of, and the cystitis arrested; in the other class the interference is direct, and the kidney is opened and drained, or, if need be, removed. Operation is to be recommended as early as possible on the following grounds :— (1) In unilateral pyonephrosis the other kidney may become involved by development of stone or waxy disease resulting from septic absorption. (2) Septicsemia or pygemia sometimes occurs, and hectic fever often results from long-con- tinued disease. (3) Rupture of the sac may occur with rapidly fatal results. (4) Suppression of urine and uraemia are prone to occur. Kidney Tumours Benign tumours hardly merit reference. Fibromata, lipomata, and adenomata have been encountered, but so rarely that no clinical picture can be formed for them as yet. Papillo- mata of the mucous membrane of the pelvis, unconnected with malignant growth, is a very unusual disease, the literature containing only eight examples. They do not increase the size of the kidney, but give rise to hpematuria of the painless type. Primary malignant disease of the kidnej^ may be considered to comprise three groups of tumour- forming growth :— 1. Sarcomata. 2. Carcinomata. 3. Malignant transformation of accessory adrenals (suprarenal "rests"). Pathology.—Sarcomata are met with before the age of five and after thirty. The microscopy at these ages diflters. The tumour of childhood is often largely composed of striped muscle fasciculi, that of the adult is comparatively free of this tissue. The sarcoma of childhood is apparently congenital, bilateral (50 per cent), and attains a greater relative and even absolute size than in the adult. Carcinomata are probably rarer than sarco- mata ; they are met with after the age of forty- five, and originate either in the cortex or in the mucous membrane of the pelvis, the latter being a rare site. Malignant accessory AdrevMls.—Grawitz has demonstrated that tumours composed of supra- renal elements (epithelium and zona pigmentosa) develop in the cortex or immediately under the capsule of the kidney: ordinarily they are no larger than a cherry-stone. These suprarenal "rests" many become malignant in adult life, sometimes forming very large tumours. They are extremely vascular, and this, together witli the fatty material always present, produces a characteristic red-yellow appearance. They form secondary deposits (20 in 28 cases, Lubarsch). Symptomatology.—In the Child.—The growth is generally rapid and sometimes colossal; indeed. Osier remarks that very large (solid) abdominal tumours in children are nearly always renal or retroperitoneal sarcomata. They are usually symptomless except towards the last, when pressure symptoms occur. (Hsematuria in 25 per cent, Newman.) In the Adult.—There are two salient features : {a) the appearance of a solid irregular renal tumour—palpable and visible ; {h) the occurrence of a causeless, usually painless, intermittent, profuse hsematuria. The tumour may be first discovered (in 63 per cent of the cases), or the haemorrhage may be the onset symptom (in 37 per cent of the cases). If these two features are present together thej' indicate neoplasm of the kidney. Life-IIistwy.—1. Latent Period.—The first state is symptomless unless it be an occasional ache or drag in one loin. The growth in the parenchyma is either spreading towards and stretching the capsule to form a tumour (63 per cent), or it is pressing on and invading the mucous membrane of the renal pelvis to cause haematuria (37 per cent). 2. Period of Onset Symptoms.—If the growth spreads outwards to form a tumour, and is so rapid as to distend the capsule quickly, the pain may be a marked symptom. The pain area may cover the entire loin and hypochondriac region, and referred pain may shoot along the distribution of the nerves to the hip, thigh, leg, and even testicle. If the growth only increases slowly it may cause no pain. The increase in either case is generally forwards to the peritoneal cavity ; then, as its weight increases, it tends downwards; on the right it tends to pass completely to the outside of the ascending colon ; on the left it is habitually crossed by the upper part of the descending colon (Stimson). The kidney may be sensitive in carcinoma, but not in sarcoma (Thornton). If the growth tends to invade the pelvis rather than the cap- sule, the haematurial onset is as follows:— The patient, apparently in good health, suddenly experiences a difficulty in starting the act of micturition; with an effort a clot is shot out, and then a quantity of blood and urine follows. There may be a suggestion of slight indirect violence as a cause for the blood, such as lifting a heavy weight, or sitting heavily down on a chair lower than was anticipated. Such slight violence lacerates a soft knot of growth fungating into the renal pelvis. If