419 LIFE INSURANCE In cases of suppuration with facial paralysis the proposal should not be entertained. Where there is acute suppuration the proposal should be delayed until the result of treatment is seen. In cases where there is a family his- tory of tuberculosis, the presence of middle ear suppuration should be looked on as an unfavour- able factor. General Constitutional Diseases.—The most important are rheumatism, gout, and syphilis. The first two I have referred to in connection with the various organs. A distinct family history of rheumatism and of gout should be looked on as unfavourable factors, and if these diseases in addition have manifested themselves in any way in the proposer, the life should either be loaded or rejected altogether according to the form in which he has been affected. His rejection will depend on whether his organs have or have not been affected by the disease. Whilst, therefore, a rheumatic individ- ual would be rejected if he had a heart murmur, if that organ had escaped his life might be accepted with or without a load in special cases. The question of the loading of cases showing a gouty history has been much discussed. It is the custom of the companies to impose an extra premium for gout, but according to Meikle (" Gout as a Factor in Life Assurance," Brit. Med. Journ., 1898, vol. iii. 764), the extra they have been in the habit of imposing is too little to cover the risk. His observation was based upon 525 lives charged an extra premium because of their lives being affected by gout. He ascertained the number that entered upon each age of life, and computed the number that were expected to die at these ages according to the experience of healthy lives. The number calculated to die according to this standard was 120. The actual number who died was 160, or an increase of 33 per cent. This increased mortality with one exception pervaded the whole of life. These figures are very striking as well as the other tables in Meikle's paper, but exception might be taken to them because of the indefinite way in which cases are sometimes classed as gout. As an extra premium had been imposed, and had been paid by these cases on account of gout, in all probability most of the cases were very decidedly gouty. What diff"erence the inclusion of cases where family history and personal condition showed only a trace or mild degree of gout not taken note of would have made on these figures, it is impossible to say; but the mortality in all probability would have been somewhat reduced. The indefinite nature of slight symptoms of gout makes it very difficult getting reliable statistics on the subject. Meikle traced the cause of death in the 160 gouty persons, and classified them as follows :—He first deducted 63 who died from various miscel- laneous diseases, and found that 42 per cent died from affections of the brain, 26 from affec- tions of the heart, 11 per cent from gout, 11 per cent from affection of the kidneys, 10 per cent from natural decay. Syphilis.—A candidate for assurance with primary, secondary, or tertiary symptoms of syphilis should not be admitted as a healthy life, and his proposal should, if not absolutely refused, be postponed till all symptoms and results of the disease have disappeared, when, if the case has been properly treated, it may be admitted at an increased rate. There is, how- ever, little doubt that many syphilitic cases show symptoms of the disease many years after all symptoms have temporarily disappeared, whilst others never have the slightest return of the disease. Careful enquiry as to the history, the method of treatment, and the pi-ogress of the symptoms, should aid the examiner in de- ciding as to the admission or rejection of indi- vidual cases. Cancer.—Cases of cancer are uninsurable. Whilst one case of cancer in a family may not affect the life, the fact that a proposer's father and mother both died of cancer should be looked on as an unfavourable factor. Endowment in- surances are preferable in such cases. Female Lives.—If the candidate for assurance is a female the examiner has to pay special attention to the functions of the female genera- tive organs, and special enquiries must be made to discover whether menstruation is and has been regular and physiological. The presence of disease of the uterus. Fallopian tubes, or ovaries makes the life not so good a one, and may require a special report. In married women information may be elicited from inquiries as to the length of time married, the number of pregnancies, the number of children alive and their state of health. In this con- nection the difficulty of the labour and the rapidity of recovery from her confinements are of great importance, especially in cases where the proposer is actually pregnant at the time of examination. What amount of extra ought to be imposed for pregnancy has been much discussed, chiefly because of the great difliculty in getting re- liable statistics on the subject. In a paper by Playfair and Wallace, read at the British Medical Association meeting in Edinburgh in 1898, giving the results of their investigation into the statistics of the Royal Maternity, Edinburgh, they arrived at the conclusion that the uniform rate that the companies are in the habit of charging for pregnancy was in many cases too low. Their conclusions are the following:— 1. For the uniform extra premium at present charged, an extra premium varying in amount according to age should be substituted. 2. The extra premium for a first pregnancy should be at least three times as great as that for a subsequent pregnancy.