85 JOINTS, DISEASES OF for they are met with in tendon sheaths and bursse ; their origin from the synovial membrane may be accepted as proved. Their presence is almost invariably associated with chronic effusion from the synovial membrane (hydrops) in tuberculosis, arthritis deformans, or Charcot's disease. While they may result from the coagulation of fibrin-forming elements in the exudation, their occurrence in tiiberculovis hydrops would appear to be the result of coagulation necrosis or fibrinous degeneration of the surface layer of the diseased synovial membrane. However formed, their character- istic shape is the result of mechanical influences, and especially of the movements of the joint. Clinically they constitute an unimportant addition to the features of the disease with which they are associated; they never give rise to the classical symptoms of loose body; their presence may be recognised, especially in the knee, by the crepitating sensation imparted to the fingers when the bodies are moved to and fro in the fluid. The treatment is concerned with the disease underlying the hydrops; if it is desired, how^ever, to empty the joint by means of a trocar and cannula, one must be prepared for the cannula becoming blocked with the bodies; should this occur, the alternative is to evacuate the fluid and bodies by means of a suitable incision. Extravasation of blood into a fringe of the synovial membrane of the knee has been known to give rise to the symptoms of loose body; such a condition is quite capable of spontaneous recovery. II. Bodies composed of Organised Con- nective Tissue, e.g. fatty, fibrous, cartilaginous, bony, or combinations of these, are met with under the following conditions :— A. In association with some general disease of the joint; loose bodies composed of connective tissue or of its derivatives are comparatively common in arthritis deformans; they are also met with in certain rare forms of synovial tuberculosis and in Charcot's disease. They are derived almost exclusively from hyper- trophic changes in the synovial fringes; they may consist of fat, e.g. the arborescent lipoma; more commonly the connective-tissue cells of the fringes proceed to form fibrous tissue, cartilage, and bone in varying proportions and combinations, after the manner commonly observed in innocent new growths. Like other hypertrophies on a free surface, they tend to become polypoidal and pedunculated, and exhibit a limited range of movement. The pedicle or stalk may, however, give way and the body becomes free; in this condition it may wander about the joint, or lie snugly in one of its recesses until disturbed by some exaggerated movement or twist; in the free state it is alleged to be capable of continued growth, deriving the necessary nutriment from the surrounding fluid. The niimber and size of the bodies vary indefinitely; they have been known to attain the size of the patella, and to number considerably over a hundred. A rarer type of loose body in arthritis deformans is met with when a portion of the " lipping " of one of the articular margins is detached by injury. It may also be mentioned that in Charcot's disease large loose bodies composed of bone may be formed in relation to the capsular and other ligaments, and may be made to grate upon one another. In this group of organised loose bodies, the disease which underlies their formation is the predominating element in the clinical features and in the treatment. The characteristic symptoms of loose body (vide infra) are often absent; when present, they are to be regarded rather as a complication of the existing disease than as a separate entity. B. Loose bodies in joints which are otherwise healthy; these constitute the majority of cases causing the classical symptoms of loose body, and the majority also of cases which call for operative treatment. Confining our statements to established facts, it may be said that they are chiefly met with in the knee and elbow of healthy males imder the age of thirty. The complaint may be of vague pains in the joint (usually ascribed to rheumatism), of occasional cracking on movement, or of impairment of function, usually an inability to extend or flex the joint completely. In many cases a clear account is given of the characteristic symptoms which arise when the body is impacted between the articular or other closely applied surfaces of the joint, viz., sudden and intense pain, loss of power in the limb, and locking of the joint, followed by efliision and other accompaniments of a severe sprain. On some movement of the joint, the body is disengaged, the locking disappears, and recovery takes place as after an ordinary sprain or twist. These symptoms may continue, and the attacks of impaction may be repeated at irregular intervals during a period of many years. On examining the joint it may be found to contain fluid, and there may be points of special tenderness; the patient himself, or the surgeon, may succeed in pal- pating the loose body, and in making it roll beneath the fingers, especially if it be lodged in the suprapatellar pouch in the case of the knee, or on one or other side of the olecranon in the case of the elbow. In most instances the patient has carefully obsei'ved his own symptoms, and is aware, not only of the existence of the loose body, but of its situation when "attached," or of its erratic appearance at different parts of the joint when "free." When the body contains bone it may show in a skiagraph. While in some cases the patient attributes his symptoms to some definite injury (rightly or wrongly), exactly similar phenomena